
    ----CITATION----
        Bunkley, Josephine M.. The Testimony of an Escaped Novice From the Sisterhood of St. Joseph,
               Emmettsburg, Maryland .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5945 wright2-0419
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  ST. JOSEPH'S INSTITUTION, EMMETTSBURG, MD.
                  
                     
                        5 Orphan asylum.
                        5 Infirmary buildings.
                        2 Cloister buildings.
                        1 Academy buildings.
                        6 Chapel of St. Joseph, in community grounds.
                        7 Chapel in the boarders grounds.
                        4 Chapel, fronting the road.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  FIRST STORY, OR GROUND-PLAN OF ST. JOSEPH'S.
                  Of those rooms not marked I can not speak with certainty.—Author.
               
            
            
            
               
                  SECOND STORY.
               
            
            
               
                  THIRD STORY.
               
            
         
         
            
            THE ENGRAVINGS.
            THE view of St. Joseph's, at or near Emmettsburg, is taken from an
               engraving given in one of the circulars of that institution, designed to show the
               academy buildings; of course, those buildings are made the most conspicuous and
               prominent in the picture, but, by close observation, the cloister-buildings are seen
                  forming a large hollow square beyond the chapel and the large
               building occupied by the boarders.
            The interior plans of the Institution were made by Miss Bunkley,
               entirely from recollection, some months before the engraving was obtained, and, of
               course, may be in many respects imperfect, particularly as to the relative
               proportions of the rooms. The ground-plan was found remarkably correct in the outline
               as compared with the engraving, and in reducing it to the proper size for the book,
               in accordance with the engraving, its relative proportions have been but little
               altered.
            The cells are doubtless too few in number. They are drawn too large for
               the scale, in order to make them more distinct. In the main, it is believed that the
               interior will prove a correct delineation, and will show an admirable arrangement for
               non-intercourse between the community and the boarding-scholars.
            The infirmary building stands distant from the cloister building by the width of the
               balcony or porch in its rear, but we have joined them, in order to bring the cuts
               within the page.
            At the conclusion of this volume will be found a Note, giving a full description of
               St. Joseph's Institution, extracted from the "Life of Mrs. Seton," its founder;
               published by Dunigan and Brother in 1853. This description came to the knowledge of
               the editor only as the present work was going to press. The reader may, for himself,
               compare it with Miss Bunkley's delineations; they will be found to correspond with
               remarkable precision, though prepared by her in June last, and without the aid of any
               official statements.
         
         
            MISS BUNKLEY'S BOOK.
            
               THE TESTIMONY OF AN ESCAPED NOVICE FROM THE SISTERHOOD OF ST. JOSEPH,
                  EMMETTSBURG, MARYLAND,
               THE MOTHER-HOUSE OF THE SISTERS OF CHARITY IN THE UNITED
                  STATES.
            
            BY JOSEPHINE M. BUNKLEY.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,
                  
                     FRANKLIN SQUARE.
                  
               
            
            1855.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight
                  hundred and fifty-five, by HARPER & BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office for the
                  Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            ADVERTISEMENT.
            THE history of this book is almost as remarkable as that of its subject. Shortly
               after Miss Bunkley had escaped from St. Joseph's in the manner she has stated in her
               narrative, the Superior of that convent published a defamatory letter against her.
               This decided Miss Bunkley not only to defend herself, but also to give an exhibition
               of convent life, as it had come under her observation, for the information and
               warning of her American countrymen; and, in coming to this determination, she did not
               act on her own judgment only, but availed herself of the advice of judicious friends,
               who believed that it was a sacred duty to the American community and the best
               interests of society to do so.
            In accordance with this resolution, she wrote a narrative of what she had seen and
               heard while in the institution of St. Joseph, and committed the same for revision,
               with other papers bearing on the subject, to a gentleman in Norfolk, Virginia, the
               city of her father's residence.
            This gentleman, without consulting her, made an arrangement with a publishing house
               in the city of New York for the publication
               of the work, and sent away a large portion of the manuscript, without permitting her
               to read it after he had revised it. This fact came to the knowledge of a friend in
               New Jersey, a gentleman of position and great courage and perseverance, who has taken
               a deep interest in this whole affair, and has enabled her to conduct the matter to a
               successful issue. Without delay, she demanded, through legal counsel, her narrative
               and other papers; but this demand was refused. She was compelled, in these
               circumstances, to give an order to her counsel to file a bill for injunction to
               prevent the publication. After several weeks fruitlessly spent by them in endeavoring
               to obtain possession of her manuscript for examination, a bill of injunction was at
               length filed in the United States Court to suppress the publication of the work,
               which had in the mean time been printed, but not yet issued.
            A great deal was said in the newspapers, political and religious, Protestant and
               Roman Catholic, about this affair, which induced Miss Bunkley to set forth, in a card
               to the public, that neither the publishers referred to nor any one else had been
               authorized by her to publish her book, and stating that, in view of these
               circumstances—not being able to recover her manuscript—she should be under the
               necessity of rewriting her narrative, which would, of course, occasion some delay in
               its publication. That she and her friends had good reason to pursue the course which
               she did, a very slight perusal of the work—a copy of which the publishers brought
               into court—abundantly proved. Another injunction was also obtained on her likeness
               and autograph, which it was discovered had been prepared for circulation with the
               book.
            Foiled in their attempt to bring before the public the work just mentioned, the
               parties in question shortly after issued an anonymous and fictitious work, under the
               title of THE ESCAPED NUN, against which Miss Bunkley felt it to be her duty to warn
               the public, inasmuch as it was spoken of in the papers in some quarters as her
               own.
            Neither discouraged by these vexatious disappointments, nor intimidated by the
               threats of the hierarchy of Rome and their abettors, Miss Bunkley, with the advice of
               reliable friends, went forward, and, having re-written her narrative, engaged the
               services of a gentleman, every way competent to the task, to revise it and
               superintend the printing of her book. This task he has executed with ability and
               fidelity, and to her entire satisfaction.
            Not a fact has been distorted; not a sentiment has been modified; he has contented
               himself with performing the office of an editor, so far as Miss Bunkley's narrative
               is concerned. He has, however, subjoined many notes, that contain facts and
               statements, derived from authentic sources, which confirm the truth and enhance the
               value of the narrative. He also added some chapters on the whole question of
               conventual establishments, which will command, as they deserve, profound
               consideration; and extracts from a long and most important letter from the Rev. Dr.
               De Sanctis, who, from his former official position in the Romish Church, and at Rome
               itself, is well qualified to speak on this subject. The whole book will be read, we
                  are confident, with great interest by
               our American citizens. It sets before the world, in a clear and authentic manner, the
               true nature of convent life, even in the most popular and the most
                  worthy (if we may be allowed the application of the epithet to any
               such establishment) of all the female "communities" of the Roman Catholic
               organization. The appearance of the work, though much delayed by the circumstances of
               which we have spoken, will still be opportune, and (with God's blessing) do much
               good.
         
      
      
         
            The testimony of an escaped novice from the Sisterhood of St. Joseph, Emmettsburg,
               Maryland
            MISS BUNKLEY'S BOOK.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IMPRESSIONS OF CHILDHOOD.
               THE church bell chimed the hour of prayer; sweetly and solemnly the sound floated
                  upon the evening wind, as a little child lingered to listen near an old
                  church-yard in the city of Norfolk. Heated and tired with play, she stood in the
                  cool breeze, curiously watching the crowds of people who passed rapidly by and
                  flocked into the sanctuary. The composed and devout expression of their
                  countenances, as they eagerly pressed forward to reach the place in season,
                  attracted the attention of the child, who besought her nurse to follow the throng
                  and enter the sacred precincts. Her attendant—one of those faithful domestics of
                  the South who are intrusted with the charge of young children, and who delight in
                  obeying almost implicitly the commands of their infantile masters and
                  mistresses—readily consented; and, crossing the church-yard, they passed into the
                  vestibule of the edifice. Pausing with childish surprise to gaze at those who
                  performed the ceremony of sprinkling and crossing ing themselves with holy water at the door, the
                  little girl seated herself near the entrance. While yet absorbed with the novelty
                  of her position, and admiringly alive to the wonders that presented themselves to
                  her view, the deep tones of the organ swelled forth in a melody of such surpassing
                  sweetness that she clasped her hands in an ecstasy of delight; and turning to her
                  nurse, her innocent face radiant with pleasure, she whispered, "How sweet! how
                  beautiful!" The music ceased, but left that young susceptible heart entranced,
                  bewildered, captivated. With wondering delight she continued to gaze upon the
                  scene before her: the altar with its rich decorations, the burning tapers, the
                  ascending cloud of incense, the paintings, the gorgeous vestments of the priests,
                  the successive acts and postures that contribute to the dramatic effect of the
                  Roman Catholic ritual—all this she beheld for the first time in rapt and mute
                  astonishment. It was as if some heavenly vision were opened to her inspection, and
                  emotions newly awakened and indefinable fluttered in her bosom. The pleasing
                  variety of sounds, the sweet perfume of aromatic exhalations, the unwonted, the
                  imposing solemnities before her, the sentiment of reverential awe that breathed in
                  all around—all contributed to enhance the impression of the senses, and caused her
                  heart to throb with pleasurable excitement; and when, the service over, she rose
                  and took the hand of her nurse to return homeward, the child sighed deeply, even
                  as one aroused from happy dreams to the dull realities of common life.
               But far different were the impressions made by this incident from those of a
                  passing dream. They were deep and abiding, and were destined to control—oh! how
                  much and how powerfully!—the after life of that child, upon whose sensitive being
                  the seductive allurements of a sensual system had thus, at the early age of six
                  years, produced marked and permanent effects. Results of momentous importance
                  flowed from these simple causes, which, operating so easily and so naturally upon
                  the delicate organism of childhood, were yet no random or accidental influences,
                  but directed with the nicest calculation, in accordance with the most consummate
                  knowledge of the intricacies of the human heart, in every stage of its development
                  from the cradle to the grave—a knowledge ever applied with unscrupulous skill and
                  inflexible purpose to the advancement of the interests of the Church and the
                  subservience of her designs.
               Reader, the little child of this slight episode, as the subject of these artful
                  machinations, and in after years the witness of their cruel success, narrates in
                  the following pages her unvarnished story. How similar allurements, one by one,
                  like the threads of a strong net, were cast around her; how other and more overt
                  influences were woven in, till mind and body were alike enthralled; what schemes,
                  what arts, what arrogance and tyranny she beheld and suffered while under the
                  restraints and within the toils of Romanism—these will constitute the burden of
                  her narrative.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               EARLY IMPRESSIONS DEEPENED.
               THE imaginative and impressible disposition thus early indicated was developed in
                  childhood, not altogether without the control and guidance of a religious
                  education. I can not recall the time when my heart was not imbued with a natural
                  reverence for sacred things, or when they had not already awakened in my mind a
                  strong and unaffected interest. But these inclinations, common to most of those
                  who have been trained up under Christian nurture and admonition, did not then lead
                  me to that simple and humble apprehension of the saving truths of the Gospel,
                  which would have satisfied the longings of a restless heart, and obtained for it
                  that peace which it vainly sought in a system of ceremonial forms. Lofty
                  aspirations that reached toward some ideal good, unseen and un-comprehended by all
                  around me, drew me away from that lowly position where, at the foot of the Cross
                  of Calvary, I might have realized the ardent desires of a soul seeking communion
                  with its Maker. These very aspirations were bringing me toward that religion which
                  offered them their full consummation, without apparently requiring all the
                  sacrifice of ambition and pride which the sterner doctrines of the Bible
                  demand.
               The recollections of those brilliant and attractive rites which had been witnessed
                  with delight and wonder in early childhood, served as a continual contrast with
                  the severe simplicity of the Protestant worship, and the rigid requirements of the
                  Protestant faith. Often were these alluring ceremonies resorted to, and with
                  increasing pleasure, as my disrelish for the religion of my childhood grew
                  stronger. The fanciful but plausible and poetic explanation of the services I
                  beheld interested me. I saw beauty in the symbolic ritual of Romanism, and began
                  to inquire into the doctrinal basis of this edifice so stately and fair, upon
                  whose threshold already I stood.
               My parents were worshipers in the Protestant Episcopal Church, and from childhood
                  I was educated in the doctrines of that Church, attending its public
                  ministrations, and receiving instruction in the Sabbath-school. At the age of
                  fourteen I was solicited to present myself for Confirmation, but I steadily
                  refused to do so, my attachment having been estranged already, if not entirely
                  diverted to another system of worship. It was then that I came to the definite
                  conclusion of investigating the tenets of the Roman Catholic Church. I commenced
                  the reading of books explanatory of those tenets. These works were willingly
                  furnished me by Roman Catholic acquaintances, who had learned my sentiments, and
                  who, without directly and openly interfering to bias my convictions, urged me,
                  with seeming candor and liberality, to acquaint myself with "both sides" of the
                  controversy, and to distinguish between the good and the evil of a system so
                  commonly misrepresented. Thus the very disposition to rise superior to vulgar prejudices, and exercise an
                  independent and responsible judgment in matters of belief, was made a snare to me,
                  as it has been to multitudes of youthful minds. Let me caution such against this
                  hidden danger. There is but one infallible guide to all spiritual truth. Without
                  his direction, no research of intellect is lawful, or can be fruitful of good. The
                  indications of his presence and assistance are felt and manifested only in that
                  honest, humble, teachable, and self-distrustful temper, which becomes and
                  invariably distinguishes the searcher after truth. One who has most painfully felt
                  the possibility of self-deception, in the blind following out of hastily-formed
                  opinions, and concession to the impulsive promptings of a misguided enthusiasm,
                  would fain warn others to heed the counsels of the wise and virtuous, the mature
                  and experienced around them, before they commit their spiritual welfare and their
                  temporal happiness to the guidance of men presumptuously arrogating to themselves
                  the prerogative of Deity. The pure ray of heavenly light will attract and
                  illuminate those only who steadily turn aside their gaze from the glare of
                  delusive phantasms, which amuse, but bewilder and lead astray. God's word alone
                  can furnish that safe and unerring guidance; God's spirit only can teach
                  infallibly the soul.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               DOUBTS AND HESITATIONS.
               IT were needless to recount the various phases of mind through which I passed
                  during the two years preceding my entrance upon a membership of the Roman Catholic
                  Church. It was, as I imagined, a deliberate course of mature reflection that led
                  me thither. Fascinated by the tinsel glitter and pompous parade that conceal the
                  internal hollowness and corruption of popery, I was ill prepared, however, at the
                  age of sixteen, to weigh arguments and discriminate between conflicting
                  statements. Charmed by the consonance of those doctrines of penance and
                  supererogation which I now learned, with my previously conceived notions of
                  self-exertion and merit, I fondly hoped that, in becoming a Roman Catholic, I
                  might discover objects to attract the intellect and engage the heart, exalted
                  sanctity and spiritual repose.
               It is not to be supposed that this growing tendency was unobserved and unopposed
                  by my Protestant friends, nor that their remonstrances failed entirely to infuse
                  doubt and hesitation. Often I seemed to stand upon the brink of a fathomless
                  abyss, looking off from the precipice for some ray of light that might show me a
                  deliverance from the difficulties that encompassed me. Sometimes, indeed, the fear would rise lest,
                  under the pressure of perplexity and distress, my mind would utterly give way. All
                  other thoughts were excluded while this one question of duty was incessantly
                  revolved. As my purpose of entering the Church of Rome became confirmed, my
                  friends sought to divert my thoughts from the subject. They urged me to abandon
                  the seclusion to which I had devoted myself, and endeavored to revive my spirits
                  in scenes of amusement and gayety. Finding this ineffectual, my parents sent me to
                  spend some time in the family of a friend, a Protestant clergyman at Baltimore,
                  during which time I was not allowed an opportunity of attending the Roman Catholic
                  service; but, at the expiration of my visit, I returned to Norfolk unaltered in my
                  desire to seek that peace of mind for which I was longing, where so many assured
                  me that I would find it. The impressions fastened by early associations, and by
                  many concurrent influences later, were not of a nature to be dispelled by the
                  frivolities of fashionable society. In these I found not even a transient
                  satisfaction. I had no wish to become a votary of the world; no disposition to
                  look for happiness in its trifling pursuits. The sole alternative that seemed to
                  present itself to a complete absorption in the follies and vanities of earth, was
                  that refuge which, as I was ever reminded by sympathetic and attentive counselors,
                  the true Church offered within her encircling arms to all that were harassed with
                  doubt, and wearied with the cares of this evil world.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               FIRST VISIT TO THE SISTERS.
               IT was a lovely June evening, shortly after my return from the visit just referred
                  to, when I wended my way toward the house occupied by the Sisters of Charity at
                  Norfolk. I had reached the decision of making known my spiritual state to them,
                  and seeking advice and direction, but without the knowledge or consent of my
                  parents, whose opposition to my change of religious connection continued as strong
                  as ever. I ascended the steps and rang the bell; a little orphan child obeyed the
                  summons; and, having asked for the Superior Sister, I was ushered into the parlor.
                  It was a plainly-furnished apartment, with darkened windows admitting barely light
                  enough to distinguish the various objects. After a short interval I heard a light
                  step; the door opened, and Sister Aloysia, then the Superior Sister there,
                  advanced to receive me. She was dressed in a black habit, with a white linen
                  collar neatly turned over the cape; her face, which was very pale, nearly
                  concealed by a black cambric cap drawn closely around her head. Her beads were
                  suspended from her waist, and she kept her hands clasped before her breast. I
                  introduced myself, and informed her of the purpose of my visit. Smiling
                     pleasantly antly, she led me to a
                  window overlooking the grounds of the institution, and, partly opening the
                  shutters, she bade me seat myself near her, and begged me to open my heart to her
                  without reserve. I did so. I told her of my wants, my aspirations, my uneasiness
                  as to my eternal safety, and my hope that in the bosom of the Catholic Church I
                  might find peace and rest. I told her that, having had little opportunity of
                  informing myself thoroughly on the subject, I had embraced the resolution of
                  coming to her for counsel and instruction. When I ceased, she clasped my hands in
                  hers, and with cordial tones assured me how willingly she would endeavor to assist
                  me in my inquiries, and satisfy my scruples and doubts. After a long and friendly
                  conversation, she invited me to see the chapel, which was in the second story of
                  the building, and at that time was in quite an unfinished state. As we entered,
                  she knelt reverently before the altar, and said a short prayer, and then, taking
                  thence a crucifix, she devoutly kissed it, remarking, "How can Protestants be so
                  blind as to reject the cross on the ground that it savors of popery, when they
                  know that all their own hopes of salvation must hang upon it?"
               I left the house, promising to return after a few days. My second visit was not
                  less pleasing and encouraging: the sister urged me to persevere, assuring me that
                  I would overcome all obstacles, and that in due time my family would cease to
                  oppose my entering the Church. At my third visit, she counseled me to make known
                  the state of my mind to a priest. Meanwhile, however, my friends, having
                  discovered my determination to embrace Romanism, again sent me into the country.
                  Having returned after an absence of a few weeks, I resumed my visits to the
                  Sisters of Charity. A considerable change in the appearance of the house had taken
                  place since my last visit; the parlors were newly furnished, the chapel
                  beautifully adorned, and the grounds of the institution tastefully laid out. The
                  Superior Sister whose acquaintance I had formerly made was no longer there; she
                  had been ordered to another station, and in her place I found one who, by her
                  shrewdness and plausibility, was well fitted to fill the station to which she had
                  been appointed. With five others she conducted a small day-school, composed of
                  orphan children as well as of some whose parents were well able to remunerate them
                  for their services as teachers.
               The priest was now informed that I desired an interview. A time was appointed for
                  the purpose, and as such a visit to me could not be agreeable to my family, it was
                  arranged that I should call at his residence. I was accompanied by a young lady, a
                  Roman Catholic friend, who was educated at St. Joseph's, and made a convert there,
                  she being appointed by the priest to accompany me, and was received very kindly by
                  the priest, who undertook to inform me fully as to the doctrines and practices of
                  the Church. A few weeks elapsed, during the course of which I repeated my visit to
                  my spiritual adviser, and at length a day was fixed for my formal admission into
                  the Church of Rome.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE "BAR OF CONSCIENCE."
               PREPARATORY to that formal reception into the Church which I now sought, the
                  candidate is required to make, in the sacrament of penance, a full and general
                  confession of all the sins of past life, in order that the priest, by this secret
                  and solemn communication, may be acquainted with all the experiences of the mind
                  he desires to guide. This office is conducted tenderly and adroitly with the young
                  convert, who naturally shrinks at first from the disclosure of her inmost thoughts
                  and feelings. The kind demeanor, the parental solicitude exhibited by him whom she
                  is now taught to address by the endearing name of father, together with the
                  impression of reverence due to his presumed sanctity and purity, combine most
                  artfully and efficaciously to overcome her timid reluctance. For myself, in the
                  fresh zeal and anxiety of a young proselyte, I was not disposed to evade any means
                  prescribed for attaining the peace of mind for which I was longing. Convinced of
                  the divine claims and authority of the Church, and feeling safe only in following
                  out the advice of my constituted teachers, I thought myself but too happy if
                  permitted to hope that in the path they pointed out I could find the promised
                  reward. I approached the "bar of conscience" as the requisite medium of
                  preparation for worthily receiving the Holy Communion—the great channel for the
                  conveyance of spiritual grace to the soul.
               Auricular confession is the chief and most potent appliance by which the Church of
                  Rome gains ascendency, and retains supreme control over individual minds and
                  bodies. Without it, she were a powerless mechanism, a huge, inert mass, deprived
                  of its motive power and ruling energy. Take away this key-stone of the arch that
                  supports the gorgeous structure, and the whole edifice, with all its architectural
                  strength and magnificence, will crumble into ruins. It is the grand secret of her
                  success; the mystery of that tenacious fortitude with which she has endured the
                  countless attacks that have threatened her stability; the sovereign remedy that
                  heals the wounds inflicted by her assailants, counteracts the effects of inward
                  disease, and repairs the ravages of successive reforms and vast numerical losses.
                  Superficial observers ascribe the influence she exerts to the charm of her
                  ostentatious ceremonies and her imposing ritual; to the theatrical display and
                  sensual appeal of her worship. These are indeed the agencies that at first
                     attract, but it is the revealments of the confessional that
                     retain. These are the bands of flowers thrown around the youthful
                  victim to draw her to the altar; but the ordinance of confession is the sharp hook
                  of steel that grapples her till the sacrifice be accomplished. The robes, the
                  crucifix, the pictures, the incense, the mass, the invocation tion of saints, the thousand and one enchanting and
                  gorgeous rites, make up, indeed, an attractive image, apparently possessed of
                  vitality and vigor; but confession, as it were, completes the galvanic circle that
                  keeps the form erect and active. Detach this, and the figure falls, a pale,
                  corrupting corpse, to the ground.
               Well is this vast potency of the confessional known to the priesthood of the
                  Church of Rome, and hence the solicitude and the zeal with which it has been
                  upheld and defended. So fully conscious are they of its importance, of its
                  indispensable value, that sooner would they part with any other cherished doctrine
                  or institution than with this, the most useful of all. Its capabilities, indeed,
                  can hardly be measured by calculation. Through its agency the hidden thoughts and
                  tendencies of the mind, the disposition, the temper, the temptations, the
                  weaknesses of every penitent, are laid bare to the inspection of the priest, who
                  may then direct and mould them at his will. By this channel he becomes familiar
                  with the thoughts and feelings, not only of those under his immediate charge, but
                  also of all with whom these individual penitents may come in contact; and thus the
                  wide circles of society are opened to his intrigues and contrivances, to make
                  proselytes, to confound the enemies of the Church, or to accomplish other and
                  fouler purposes. Is there a Catholic in the cabinet: what state secret remains
                  unknown to the confessor? Has a Catholic been initiated into the mysteries of
                  Freemasonry or Odd Fellowship: does any one suppose that these will remain
                  unrevealed to the priests? Happy, it may be, are those who, in their ignorance,
                  are unconscious of this far-reaching reaching influence; for communities and
                  nations would tremble could they but realize the dangers to which they are exposed
                  through the power of the Romish confessional.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               MY FIRST CONFESSION AND BAPTISM.
               AT the appointed hour of the day fixed for my first confession, I was anxiously
                  awaiting in the parlor of the house of the Sisters of Charity the summons that
                  should call me to the little chapel where I was to meet my spiritual instructor.
                  It was already dusk when the message came; and following the sister who had
                  brought it, I entered the door, drew aside the curtain that screened it, and knelt
                  on a hassock before a small table, at which was seated the confessor. The chapel
                  was dark, illumined only by the flickering light of a small lamp that burned
                  before the altar, which was decorated with vases of beautiful flowers, while from
                  the wall above it were suspended several exquisite paintings.
               With bowed head, and in trembling tones, from the depths of my soul I poured,
                  without reserve, the feelings and thoughts of my whole life into the ear of one
                  whom I considered my earthly guide; whose duty it was to reprove, instruct,
                  console the subjects of his care with unremitting diligence, until he should
                  deliver up his trust to that God who had commissioned him for the solemn task. My
                  confession made, he breathed over my head a prayer so touching and sublime that my
                  faith seemed strengthened and my spirit calmed by its holy influence. Relief from
                  all those anxieties and perplexities which had long wearied me seemed at length
                  within my reach; I felt myself raised above the atmosphere of earth, and entering
                  upon a sanctuary of repose whence I had no desire to retrace my steps into the
                  world.
               I was directed to return within a few days for a second confession, and upon that
                  occasion I received absolution. Arrangements were now to be made for my public
                  reception into the Church; and, accordingly, it was decided that upon "Holy
                  Saturday," or the day after Good Friday, I should be "conditionally" baptized.
               Individuals entering the Roman Catholic Church, if they have been baptized in
                  infancy by Protestant Episcopal clergymen, are not absolutely required to receive
                  the ordinance a second time; but, lest there may have been some omission in its
                  performance, which would render the rite invalid according to the Romish
                  conception of it, the sacrament of baptism is then administered by the priest in a
                  hypothetical or conditional manner.
               On the morning of "Holy Saturday," without the knowledge of my parents, I left my
                  house for the purpose of visiting a Roman Catholic family who resided near the
                  church, and at whose house I was to prepare for the sacred ordinance. A simple
                  white dress had been provided for the occasion, with a long white veil of muslin,
                  falling over the shoulders and reaching to the floor. No ornament was to be worn
                  save a gold cross suspended from the neck.
               
               The ceremony had been widely made known, and the church was filled to overflowing
                  with curious spectators long before the service began. The moment having arrived,
                  I passed through the sacristy into the church, and took my seat in a pew in front
                  of the altar. The priest soon entered, and we proceeded down the aisle to the door
                  of the church, where stood the marble font filled with water, which he now
                  consecrated for use in the sacred ordinance. The usual ceremonies were performed:
                  a lighted candle was put into my hand; I was anointed with oil; salt was placed
                  upon my tongue; I responded to the questions asked of me, and returned to my pew a
                  baptized member of that Church whose fellowship I had so earnestly craved. The
                  following morning was Easter, the festival of the Resurrection, and upon that holy
                  day I made my first communion.
               Did these formalities of profession realize my long-indulged dreams of comfort and
                  peace? Did I enjoy that complete tranquillity promised by the Church to all who,
                  in the proper reception of those sacraments which are the channels of Divine grace
                  to the souls of her children, repose upon her bosom, forsaking all other trust? I
                  was, indeed, most happy. A deep sense of security in the possession of the only
                  true and effectual system of salvation filled my spirit with calm and joy. Morning
                  after morning found me low bending in prayer before the altar of the chapel
                  attached to the church where I had taken my solemn vows. Evening after evening was
                  spent in pious conversation with the Sisters of Charity, and in rapt meditation at
                  that shrine where I had made my first confession. My only happiness was now
                  centred in these blissful moments, and again and again did I bless that Church who
                  had thus conquered my affections and taken captive my will.
               But how far removed this security, this mystical repose, these absorbed
                  contemplations, from the spirit and the practice of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus
                  Christ, I can now at length perceive as I could not then. That prayerful
                  dependence upon a crucified and risen Savior, which is the Bible Christian's only
                  hope and support; that conscious assurance of pardon and reconciliation through
                  his blood; those delightful views of his holiness, his condescension, his love, in
                  the work of redemption; that filial obedience which springs from the strong
                  emotion of gratitude and the desire of self-consecration to his service—instead of
                  these blessed enjoyments of the Gospel believer, I was drawing all my strength
                  from a human and earthly source. My Christ, the object of my devotion, the support
                  of my hope, the confidant of all my deepest interior wants, desires, and
                  resolutions, was the Church. I accepted and trusted, not God's word, but the creed
                  of the Church. I relied upon and rejoiced in, not God's promises, but those of the
                  Church; my performance of required duties arose, not from the thankful and
                  grateful consideration of the past mercies and present favors of a reconciled God,
                  but from the hope of acquiring future defense and safety promised to those who
                  blindly follow the commands and precepts of the Church. It was not from a serious
                  and adequate perception of the sinfulness of my own heart; of the holiness and
                  justice of God; of my danger as a guilty
                  and sentenced transgressor, that my religious convictions proceeded, but rather
                  from a poetic sensibility; from a weak desire of passive quiet and spiritual
                  inaction; from a purpose to work out my own righteousness by deeds of meritorious
                  value, in preference to an humble reliance upon the righteousness of Christ which
                  is by faith. That such sentiments and views should have led me to a temporary
                  delusion in the bosom of the Church of Rome is not to be wondered at; that they
                  should have given me no permanent and well-founded repose is still less a matter
                  of surprise.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ATTRACTIONS OF THE CLOISTER.
               IT is not in the power of a religion of forms and will-worship to render pleasant
                  and promotive of spiritual comfort those cares and duties which belong to an
                  ordinary course of life. The intelligent Christian, indeed, may find in these
                  employments an opportunity of continual obedience, and a channel of communication
                  with his Savior, who enables him, in whatever he is doing, to glorify God. But the
                  priest-taught and governed subject of Rome learns to regard all the concerns of
                  earth as contradictory to his spiritual frame of life—as conflicting with that
                  ascetic estrangement from all the engagements of mortality; that mystical
                  elevation above human affection and emotion, which is the highest grade of
                  meritorious attainment. Thus, either in the first ardor of conversion, or when the
                  false comforts of her system have been tried and found wanting, the Church of Rome
                  whispers to her disciple longings for the perfect holiness and absolute repose of
                  the secluded convent. To be truly "religious," signifies, in her
                  distorted language, not to illustrate the principles of the Gospel in all those
                  humble but sanctified employments that belong to the lot where God has placed us,
                  but to fly from the scene of trial, and
                  to abandon the relations of our providential position, and to waste, in a
                  condition of passivity and mental vacuity, the precious moments of probation.
               My religious advisers were not slow to suggest such longings to my mind, and I was
                  well prepared to entertain them. Home and society had already lost their charms,
                  and the details of domestic life had become a painful burden. I found delight only
                  in the contemplative retirement of the sanctuary to which I daily resorted, and in
                  the performance of religious practices which had not yet lost their novelty. I was
                  now led to dwell much upon the happiness of those favored ones who are enabled to
                  abstract themselves entirely from the temptations and anxieties of the world, and
                  dedicate their time without reserve to the service of God. The cloister, I was
                  assured, affords a safe retreat to all who would soar above the atmosphere of
                  earthly love, and gaze upon the pure light of holiness and heaven. There I might
                  find, in the perfect love of God, a depth of peace, a complete repose, such as the
                  blessed on high are enjoying. There are natures, I was told—and to these I felt
                  that mine belonged—so exalted in their aspirations, that human affections can
                  never supply the void of their hearts. Often did I hear described in glowing words
                  the condition of holy men and women who had turned all their thoughts away from
                  earth, consecrated all their powers to God, and spent their lives in ceaseless
                  contemplation and adoring love. I aspired to this perfection. At the church, in
                  the chapel, in my daily private devotions, I earnestly besought Almighty God to
                  make known his will concerning me. I desired to devote my life to his service; yet
                  reason could not but revolt from the monstrous supposition that God, who had given
                  me affections and talents capable of use, would be more honored by crushing them
                  within the walls of a cloister, by wasting strength in inaction, by burying the
                  heart in a living sepulchre. If such were his designs, then he had created but to
                  blight the energies of his creatures; and every object of beauty that his hand had
                  formed on earth was made without profit for man, thus to be shut out from the
                  enjoyment of the natural world.
               I indulged not unfrequently in these reflections, and, as usual, opened my heart
                  freely to those whom I had taken for my religious guides. But all such ideas I was
                  told to regard as the suggestions of evil; as temptations of the adversary, who
                  would fain cheat me of my blessed calling to a perfect and entire devotion to the
                  religious life. I was brought to feel that in the service of God the sacrifice of
                  all these earthly considerations was but lightly to be esteemed. Yes, thought I,
                  if this be God's will, I will renounce the world; I will break off every natural
                  tie, and yield myself up a willing offering upon the altar of
                     self-consecration.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Thus it is that the inexperience and simplicity of the young are taken
                     advantage of, commonly and systematically, by the priesthood of Rome for the
                     accomplishment of their own ambitious ends. "At an age when the heart is
                     especially open to those impressions which may be called romantic or
                     sentimental, the young person is beset with continual commendations of the
                     heavenly state of a nun; she is told of the innumerable dangers and
                     difficulties that surround those who live in this world, and of the ease
                     with which she can serve God in a cloister."—Nuns and
                        Nunneries: Sketches compiled entirely from Romish Authorities.
                     London, 1852.
                  "Whoever," says St. Alphonsus Liguori, "consecrates her virginity to Jesus
                     Christ, is devoted entirely to God, in body as well as in mind. Married
                     persons, being of the world, can think of nothing but of the things of the
                     world. Thus poor worldlings meet with insurmountable difficulties in the way
                     of virtue; and the more exalted their rank, the greater the obstacles to
                     their sanctification. To become a saint in the world, it is necessary for a
                     married woman to adopt the means of sanctification, to frequent the
                     sacraments, to make long and frequent mental prayer, to practice many
                     interior and exterior mortifications, to love contempt, humiliation, and
                     poverty, and, in a word, to make every effort in her power to please God.
                     But how can a married person find the time, the opportunities, and helps
                     necessary for reflection, and continual application to the things of God?
                     The married woman must provide for her family, educate her children, please
                     her husband. [Is this a sin?] The husband must be attended to; if his
                     directions be neglected, or his commands be not immediately executed, he
                     breaks out into complaints and reproaches. The servants disturb the house;
                     at one time by their clamor or their quarrels, at another by their
                     importunate demands. The children, if small, are a perpetual source of
                     annoyance, either by their cries and screams, or by the endless variety of
                     their wants. If grown up, they are an occasion of still greater inquietude,
                     fear, and bitterness, by associating with bad companions, by the dangers to
                     which they are exposed, or the infirmities with which they are afflicted.
                     How, in the midst of so many difficulties and embarrassments, is it possible
                     for the married woman to attend to prayer or to preserve recollection? But
                     would to God," continues this Romish advocate of the monastic life, "that
                     seculars were exposed to no other evils than these obstacles to their
                     devotions, to constant prayer, and the frequent use of the sacraments. Their
                     greatest misfortune is to be in continual danger of losing the grace of God
                     and their immortal souls. At home they must hold constant intercourse with
                     their own families, and with their relations, and with the friends of their
                     husbands. Oh! how great, on such occasions, is the danger of losing God!
                     This is not understood by young persons, but it is well known to those who
                     are settled in the world, and who are daily exposed to such dangers. Oh! how
                     unhappy is the life of the generality of married persons! I have known the
                     circumstances, the feelings, and dispositions of numberless married persons,
                     from the highest to the lowest classes of society, and how few of them were
                     contented! The bad treatment of husbands, the disaffection of children, the
                     wants of the family, the control of relatives, the pains of childbirth,
                     which are always accompanied with danger of death; the scruples and anxiety
                     of conscience regarding the flight of opportunities, and the education of
                     children, plunge poor seculars into endless troubles and agitations, and
                     fill their souls with continual regret for not having been called to a
                     happier and more holy state. God grant that in the midst of such troubles
                     and agitations many of them may not lose their immortal souls; and that
                     along with passing through a hell in this life, they may not be condemned to
                     an eternity of torments in the next.
                  "The state, then," concludes this holy man, "of virgins consecrated to Jesus
                     Christ, and who are entirely devoted to his divine love, is of all states
                     the most happy and sublime. They are free from the danger to which married
                     persons are necessarily exposed. Their affections are not fixed on their
                     families, nor on men of the world, nor on goods of the earth, nor on the
                     dress and vanities of women. They are unshackled by worldly ties, by
                     subjection to friends or relatives, and are far-removed from the noise and
                     tumult of the world."
               
               
               Two or three instances of the lessons and instructions I thus received will
                  illustrate what I desire to communicate on this subject.
               While I was in Richmond, Virginia, an unmarried Protestant clergyman accompanied
                  me to the Roman Catholic church. The next time I saw my confessor, he said he had
                  learned I intended marrying that gentleman. I replied I had never thought of doing
                  so. Then he told me I must never be seen with him again, because it brought
                  scandal on the holy Church. He said he had noticed me from the altar, and then, in
                  a threatening attitude, he farther said, "Just let me see you with him again." He
                  continued for some time in this angry manner to scold and threaten me. I was much
                  alarmed; his violence terrified me; I burst into tears, and assured him again and
                  again that I did not intend marrying, and I should never think of a union with one
                  out of the Church. I promised to obey implicitly plicitly his commands, and implored him to overlook
                  and forgive this offense which I had unconsciously committed. After a while he
                  became calm, and permitted me to depart, saying, in the usual manner, "Go in
                  peace, my child." When I returned to my residence, my eyes were so much swollen
                  with weeping that my sister asked the cause. This I durst not communicate to any
                  one, because it occurred in the confessional. This priest was a
                     vicar-general.
               
               Another priest once asked me if I were married, to which I answered in the
                  negative. Then he asked me if I thought of marrying, which I also answered in the
                  negative. "Well, my child," said he, "it is infinitely better to live a life of
                  celibacy, and escape all those ills," etc., and proceeded to enumerate in detail
                  what he called the ills of married life.
               Such are the representations and arguments which are set forth for the inducement
                  of the young and ignorant to commit themselves to those "priests' prisons for
                  women," where the security of home and domestic defense is exchanged for the
                  oppression of heartless "superiors," where the gentle discipline of care and
                  trial, which God himself has appointed to our lot for progressive culture and
                  sanctification, is bartered for the cruel barbarities of the whip and the
                  sackcloth, exposure to cold and hunger, privation of all comforts, and destitution
                  of all friendly regard; where the active duties of a benevolent Christian life are
                  forsaken for the foolish, senseless absurdities of idol-worship and works of
                  self-righteous zeal.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               VISITS TO THE CONVENTS.
               INFLUENCED by these counsels and suggestions, I inclined strongly, before many
                  weeks had elapsed after my entrance into the Church of Rome, toward the vocation
                  of a recluse. But in order fully to convince myself of the attractions of that
                  calling, I determined, with the approval of my spiritual advisers, to visit some
                  of those institutions of which I had heard such praise. In the summer of 1852 I
                  left Norfolk to visit the Carmelite Nunnery, the Visitation Convent, and the
                  "Mother House" of St. Joseph's, that fountainhead of female Jesuitism in this
                  country.
               On arriving at Baltimore, I received a permit from a priest to visit the Carmelite
                  Nunnery on Aisquith Street, occupied by sisters of the order of St. Theresa. I was
                  at once admitted, doubtless in consequence of the fact that my inclination toward
                  the convent life had been made known, since visitors are but rarely permitted to
                  enter the walls of this institution. I did not, however, obtain the desired
                  opportunity of inspecting the internal and domestic arrangements of the place, for
                  the Superior was ill and could not receive me. This message was brought to me at
                  the grating of the parlor by a nun closely veiled, and while conversing versing with me she suddenly drew aside
                  her veil, and cast upon me an earnest and searching look, expressive of the
                  deepest interest and sympathy. I shall never forget the expression of that
                  countenance, the death-like pallor of which showed traces of long mental and
                  bodily suffering—indications corroborated by the mournful gentleness of her voice.
                  I did not then connect these symptoms with any idea of the cruelties suffered by
                  the inmates of these institutions—cruelties so well calculated to produce them—for
                  I had then no glimpse of the dark side of the picture; but I left the convent with
                  emotion as of one who had looked upon a visitant from another sphere. Poor nun! I
                  have never seen her since. Perhaps she is still pining in her cage, vainly longing
                  for the perfume of flowers, and the health-laden breath of the south wind on her
                  pallid cheek. More likely she has passed away, and her only memorial is the mound
                  in the convent garden that indicates the place where her poor shattered frame is
                  resting in the grave, dug by her own hands while living.
               Although at that time aware that the discipline of the Carmelite order of nuns is
                  peculiarly severe, it was not until my residence at St. Joseph's, where I had
                  opportunities of obtaining such information, that I learned the nature of the
                  barbarities practiced by the followers of St. Theresa, under pretext of rendering
                  themselves acceptable to God. A brief statement of these rules may interest those
                  unacquainted with the system, and afford some warning to inexperienced girls
                  against the wiles that might entice them into such a tomb of horrors.
               The Carmelite nuns are required to fast during eight months of the year. This
                  fasting, which is often excessive, contributes to their pale and emaciated look.
                  They wear constantly a garment of hair-cloth next to the skin, which keeps up an
                  incessant feverish excitement of the system. During the heat of summer they sleep
                  between woolen blankets, and in the severities of winter they are furnished with
                  scarcely clothing enough to keep them from the effects of the frost. As a penance
                  for the slightest infraction of the regulations, and often as a prescribed
                  religious exercise, the "discipline" is used, that is, the
                  application of a whip composed of several leather thongs to the naked back, with
                  all the strength of the person wielding it. The screams of sufferers under this
                  infliction are the only sounds that relieve the dreary silence of these walls, and
                  have been heard at times by passers-by at the lonely hour of midnight. This
                  "discipline" is often continued till the blood flows at every stroke of the whip.
                  For minor faults the nuns are sometimes required to describe a cross on the floor
                  with their tongues, which may leave the mark in blood, in token of deep humility;
                  and, finally, their own graves are dug by themselves during life, as a reminder of
                  the hour of dissolution, the approach of which, by all these enormous barbarities,
                  equaled only in the records of savage or Inquisitorial torture, is so effectually
                  and rapidly hastened.
               In this convent it was that Olivia Neal was confined, and from it she made her
                  escape, only to be imprisoned the second time by the use of main force. I shall
                  have occasion hereafter to refer to the case of this unfortunate victim of priestly violence; but,
                  as inquiries have frequently been made as to her present abode, I will here state
                  that she is now an inmate of the asylum at Mount Hope, Baltimore, a hopeless
                  maniac, driven to desperation by her tormentors.
               Shortly after my visit to the Carmelite nunnery I called at the Convent of the
                  Visitation, situated upon the corner of Park and Centre Streets, in the same city.
                  This is a large building, with grounds attached, and surrounded by an elevated
                  wall. A nun soon appeared at the grating, when I handed her a note for the
                  Superior. She directed me to walk to the left door. I heard the withdrawal of
                  several bolts, and the door was opened by some invisible hand, then closed behind
                  me, and the bolts were pushed over the door from an adjoining apartment, separated
                  from that where I now stood by iron bars extending from the floor to the ceiling.
                  This was the convent parlor, and through this iron grating persons are sometimes
                  allowed to converse with the nuns. Soon a nun approached the bars, which formed a
                  partition across the entire width of the apartment, and told me that she would
                  open the door to admit me into the rooms beyond. The bolts were withdrawn as
                  before. I returned into the vestibule, and stood at the door where the nun had
                  first appeared. After the removal of several bars and bolts again, this door
                  opened and closed violently behind me; it was fastened as before, and I could just
                  discern, through the almost total darkness, two nuns, one of whom bade me follow
                  her. I was taken through several passages to the library, or large room, well
                  supplied with books, where several nuns were seated and engaged in reading, while
                  others, also with books before them, kept their eyes fixed immovably upon the
                  floor, not even turning to notice the stranger who had entered. I was next taken
                  to the chapel, a circular apartment, with a richly-decorated altar. On one side of
                  the room was a grating in the wall, through which I could distinguish the pale
                  faces of several nuns who were kneeling in prayer. After visiting the dormitory,
                  the music-room, and other apartments occupied by the pupils of the academy
                  attached to the convent—for I was not allowed to visit the cloisters—I left,
                  promising to return soon for the purpose of an interview with the Superior, who,
                  at the time of this first visit, was engaged, and could not conveniently receive
                  me.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE SUNNY SIDE OF CONVENT LIFE.
               I HAD received from the Superior of the institution of St. Joseph's, at
                  Emmettsburg, an invitation to visit that establishment, of which I had heard
                  frequent eulogy, and which I had long desired to see. I accordingly proceeded
                  thither from Baltimore, and reached the gate of the institution at about nine
                  o'clock in the evening. I left the stage at the gate, and proceeded up the walk. A
                  portress opened the door, and conducted me to the strangers' apartment; as the
                  hour was late, I could not see the Lady Superior till the next morning, and after
                  taking some refreshment I retired.
               At an early hour I was awakened by the sound of a sweet strain of music; it
                  proceeded from the chapel near by. The deep tones of an organ swelled forth,
                  accompanying the rich voices of singers in a hymn of solemn and inspiring melody.
                  I listened in a trance of delight to the exquisite combination of parts and the
                  melodious alternations; now subdued and tender, sinking almost to a whisper, and
                  now bursting forth into a full chorus of perfect harmony, while the anthem would
                  be caught up by some single voice, whose thrilling tones, higher and higher
                  ascending, seemed at last, like the matin song of the lark, to come from heaven's
                  gate, pleading for admission there. It were impossible to describe the impressions
                  made by these heavenly sounds, thus rising upon the stillness of the early
                  morning, as heard by one already prepossessed in favor of the religious life whose
                  utterance was heard in such delicious strains. It seemed the outbreathing of a joy
                  and tranquillity such as I had so long thirsted to experience, the source and
                  motive of which were the holy life and the blessed employments in which those
                  singers were engaged.
               The few days now spent in this establishment were appropriated, at the
                  recommendation of the Superior, to a "religious retreat," as it is termed—that is,
                  a course of spiritual practices, consisting of prayer, meditation, and devotional
                  reading. During this space of time every attention was paid to me, and every
                  effort made to influence me in favor of the convent life. The condition of a
                     "religious"*
                   was painted in bright and
                  
                     
                     *The misapplication of this term, and of other words in the Romish dialect,
                        is ably criticised by a popular writer. "Where a perversion of the moral
                        sense has found place," says he, "words preserve oftentimes a record of this
                        perversion. We have a signal example of this—even as it is a notable
                        evidence of the manner in which moral contagion, spreading from heart and
                        manners, invades the popular language—in the use, or, rather, misuse of the
                        word 'religion,' during all the age of papal domination in
                        Europe. Probably many of you are aware that in those times a
                        'religious person' did not mean any one who felt and allowed
                        the bonds that bound him to God and his fellowmen, but one who had taken
                        peculiar vows upon him, a member of one of the monastic orders. A
                        'religious house' did not mean, nor does it now mean in the
                        Church of Rome, a Christian household, ordered in the fear of God, but a
                        house in which these persons were gathered together according to the rule of
                        some man—Benedict, or Dominic, or some other. A 'religion' meant, not a
                        service of God, but an order of monkery; and taking the monastic vows was
                        termed going into a 'religion.' Now what an awful light does this one word,
                        so used, throw on the entire state of mind and habit of thought in those
                        ages! That then was religion, and nothing else was deserving of the name.
                        And 'religious' was not a title which might be given to parents and
                        children, husbands and wives, men and women fulfilling faithfully and holily
                        in the world the several duties of their stations, but only to those who had
                        devised self-chosen service for themselves."—TRENCH on the Study of Words,
                        Lecture I. To vindicate this statement against the charge of being grounded
                        on a mere popular use of the word in question, the author quotes a decree of
                        the great Fourth Lateran Council (1215) forbidding the farther
                        multiplication of monastic orders. The passage runs thus: "Ne nimia
                        religionum diversitas gravem in Ecclesia Dei confusionem
                        inducat, firmiter prohibemus, ne quis de cetero novam
                        religionem inveniat, sed quicunque voluerit ad
                        religionem converti, unam de approbatis assumat."
                  
                   glowing
                  colors, and every attraction calculated to please and charm the taste was
                  presented to my view. The very atmosphere of the place seemed redolent with piety,
                  and the inmates encircled, as it were, with a celestial halo. I was surrounded by
                  comforts and luxuries such as I had not supposed were granted to the members of a
                  conventual establishment; the table, furnished with silver, was always well
                  provided with choice viands and fruits; the furniture was neat, and even
                     luxurious.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The community of St. Joseph's at Emmettsburg, which was founded by Mother
                     Seton in 1809, is in the main modeled after the society of St. Vincent de
                     Paul, in Paris, and is the Mother House of the community in the United
                     States. Besides having, like all sisterhoods, a female or Mother Superior,
                     it possesses also a male or Father Superior, who is a priest
               
               In my interview with the Father Superior of the institution, who was a priest from
                  Spain, I explained to him without reserve my reasons for visiting these
                  establishments, and asked his advice respecting my embracing a religious life. He
                  encouraged me, and, in order to form a judgment of my religious qualification,
                  desired me to make a full confession, commencing with the time of my entering the
                  Church. I did so, and was told that I had a true call from God—a vocation.
               But it had not formed part of my intention to enter at once upon this vocation,
                  and accordingly I left, after a short and delightful stay, the institution of St.
                  Joseph's, to return to my home. At that time it was my purpose to revisit the
                  place, and enter upon my novitiate within the period of six months; but
                  circumstances of the most painful nature prolonged that interval. When I left home
                  upon this visit my mother was in excellent health. How great was my distress at
                  receiving, before I left St. Joseph's, a telegraphic dispatch announcing that my
                  dear mother had been attacked by the yellow fever, and was already at the point of
                  death. I hastened home, but too late to receive her blessing, or even to take a
                  last look at her remains, the message having been delayed at Baltimore. My
                  feelings on reaching my desolate home I shall not attempt to describe; those only
                  who have experienced such a loss can represent its anguish to themselves. My
                  mother left a babe of twelve months, who has ever since been inexpressibly dear to
                  me. I have but once approached her grave, and then was conveyed away in an
                  unconscious state. But this is a theme upon which I can not dwell.
               When six months had expired after my return, I received a letter from the
                  Superior, inquiring whether I had relinquished the idea of consecrating myself to
                  the service of God. That letter I left unanswered. A year elapsed, during the latter part of which I
                  frequently visited the Sisters of Charity at their mission-house near my home.
                  They, as well as my spiritual advisers, encouraged me to go forward in the path
                  marked out for me by Providence, assuring me that even on earth I should arrive at
                  a nobler and worthier life than the world could afford.
               Had I but heeded one voice, however, which warned me to beware, I should have been
                  spared many days of misery and wretchedness.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               ENTRANCE AT ST. JOSEPH'S.
               IT was in the month of December, 1853, that, notwithstanding the continued
                  opposition of my Protestant friends and family, and entirely without their
                  knowledge, I left Norfolk for Baltimore, with the secret purpose of embracing the
                  life of a "Sister of Charity."
               While in Baltimore I was invited to witness the imposing ceremony of the "taking
                  of the black veil" by a novice of the Visitation Convent. This rite has been so
                  often described that it were needless to repeat here the well-known relation. It
                  is a solemn and impressive pageantry, and the mystical character given to the poor
                  victim, the temporary importance to which she is elevated in her own eyes and in
                  the sight of beholders, and the loud hallelujahs sung over this living burial of a
                  soul intended by the Creator for light and happiness, rob the scene of much of its
                  intrinsic horror, and excite in the breast of many an enthusiastic girl the
                  romantic wish to figure in so brilliant a spectacle.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *While the ceremony here alluded to is familiar to many in its external and
                     dramatic features, there are probably but few who have had the opportunity
                     of examining the nature of the vows and prayers used on these occasions, as
                     they are prescribed in the Pontificale Romanum—a work little
                     known outside of the ranks of the Romish clergy. The following statements on
                     this subject are from the pen of a friend, and deserve particular notice, as
                     illustrating the wicked and pernicious influences which are brought to the
                     aid of a system based upon falsehood and characterized throughout by gross
                     delusion and shameless deceit.
                  The most marked peculiarity of this ceremony, writes my friend, is its
                     mystical character, and the complete confusion of material with
                     pseudo-spiritual ideas which pervades the service.
                  After various chantings and genuflections, the officiating pontiff (bishop)
                     consecrates the vestments of the virgins, and blesses their veils. Then he
                     hallows the rings—the marriage-rings—saying,
                  "Creator Lord, send thy benediction upon these rings, that those who shall
                     wear the same, being fortified with celestial virtue, may maintain entire
                     faith and unbroken fidelity, and as the spouses of Jesus Christ, may guard
                     the vow of their virginity, and persevere in perpetual chastity. Through
                     Christ," etc.
                  Then he consecrates the torques, or
                     necklaces, etc. These actions completed, the virgins, arrayed in the
                     consecrated garments, their veils excepted, return, two by two, to the
                     pontiff, chanting as follows:
                  "The kingdom of this world, and all secular adorning, I have despised for
                     the love of our Lord Jesus Christ.
                  "R. Whom I have seen, whom I have loved, in whom I have
                     believed, in whom I have delighted.
                  "My heart hath uttered a good word. I speak of my works to the king."
                  Then the pontiff, with his hands stretched out before him, repeats sundry
                     prayers, from which we select a few passages:
                  "Look down, O Lord! on these thy handmaids, who, placing in thy hands the
                     vow of their continence, make an offering of their devotion unto thee, from
                     whom they themselves have received the desire to make this vow. For how
                     otherwise could their mind, compassed with mortal flesh, get the victory
                     over the law of nature, the freedom of license, the force of custom, and the
                     stimulants of youthful age (legem naturæ, libertatem licentiæ, vim
                     consuetudinis, et stimulos ætatis), unless thou, O God, didst mercifully
                     kindle in them, of thy free pleasure, the love of virginity—didst graciously
                     nourish the longing for it in their hearts—didst minister unto their
                     fortitude?"
                  The following passage can not be given in English:
                  "De largitatis tuæ fonte defluxit ut cum honorem nuptiarum nulla interdicta
                     minuissent ac super sanctum conjugium nuptialis benedictio permaneret,
                     existerent tamen sublimiores animæ quæ in viri ac muliebris copula
                     fastidirent connubium, concupiscerent sacramentum, nec imitarentur quod
                     nuptiis agitur, sed diligerent quod nuptiis præ notatur. Amen."
                  One more passage from this extraordinary prayer:
                  "Blessed Virginity confesses Him who is her author, and, rivaling the
                     integrity of angels, has devoted herself to the bridal chamber and the bed
                     of Him (illius thalamo, illius cubiculo) who is the spouse of perpetual
                     virginity, like as he is the Son of perpetual virginity."
                  In putting the consecrated veil upon the head of each successively, the
                     pontiff says,
                  "Receive thou the sacred veil, whereby thou mayest be known to have
                     contemned the world, as truly and humbly with the whole endeavor of thy
                     heart to have subjected thyself as a wife to Jesus Christ forever, who
                     defend thee from all evil, and bring thee to life eternal. Amen."
                  The virgins, being veiled, sing, "Posuit signum in faciem meam, ut nullum
                     præter eum amatorem admittam."
                  Then the virgins are again presented to the pontiff, two and two as before,
                     by the bridemaids; then taking the ring in his right hand, and the virgin's
                     right hand in his left, and putting the ring on the ring-finger of her right
                     hand, he espouses the same to Jesus Christ (desponsat illas J. C.), saying
                     to each severally,
                  "I espouse thee to Jesus Christ, the son of the Supreme Father, who keep
                     thee undefiled (illæsam). Therefore receive the ring of faith, the seal of
                     the Holy Ghost, so that thou be called the spouse of God, and if thou serve
                     him faithfully, be crowned everlastingly. In nomine Patris," etc.
                  Then the pontiff, rising, says,
                  "God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth, who hath vouchsafed
                     to choose you to an espousalship like that of the blessed Mary,
                     mother of our Lord Jesus Christ (ad beatæ Mariæ matris Domini nostri J. C.
                     consortium), hallow you, that in the presence of God and of
                     his angels, you may persevere, untouched and undefiled, in the integrity you
                     have professed, and hold on your purpose, love chastity, and keep patience,
                     that you may merit to receive the crown of virginity. Through the same
                     Christ our Lord, Amen."
                  We shall only add some passages from the benedictions, and the anathema with
                     which this ceremony closes.
                  "O God prepare them, under the governance of wisdom, for all the work of
                     virtue and glory, that, overcoming the enticements of the flesh, and
                     rejecting forbidden concubinage, they may inherit the indissoluble copula of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord. These,
                     O Lord! we beseech thee supply with arms not carnal, but mighty through the
                     power of the Spirit, that thou fortifying their feelings and members, sin be
                     not able to lord it in their bodies and souls."
                  Again: "Let the shower also of thy heavenly grace extinguish in them all
                     hurtful heat (omnem nocivum calorem), and kindle up in them the light of
                     abiding chastity; let not the modest face be exposed to scandals, nor
                     negligence afford to the incautious occasions of falling."
                  Again: "God make you strong when frail, strengthen you when weak, relieve
                     and govern your minds with piety, direct your ways, etc., etc., that when
                     about to enter the bed-chamber of your spouse (intraturæ sponsi thalamum),
                     he may discover in you nothing noisome, nothing filthy, nothing hidden,
                     nothing corrupt, nothing disgraceful; that when the tremendous day of the
                     repayment of the just and retribution of the bad shall come, avenging fire
                     may find in you nothing to burn, but divine goodness what to crown; as
                     being those whom a religious life hath already cleansed in this
                        world; so that when about to ascend to the tribunal of the eternal
                     king and the palaces on high, you may merit to have protection with those
                     who follow the Lamb, and sing the new song without ceasing, there to receive
                     the reward after labor, and remain forever in the region of the living."
                  The benedictions ended, the pontiff sits down, and publicly pronounces
                     anathema on any who may draw away from divine service those who are under
                     the banner of chastity, and on any one who may purloin their goods, or
                     hinder them from possessing their goods in quiet.
                  
                     The Curse.—"By the authority of the Omnipotent God, and of St.
                     Peter and St. Paul, his apostles, we firmly, and under the threat of
                     anathema, enjoin that no one carry off these virgins or religious persons
                     here present from divine service, to which, under the standard of chastity,
                     they have been dedicated; that no one plunder their property, but that they
                     enjoy it in quiet. If any one shall have presumed to attempt this, may he be
                     cursed in his home and out of his home; may he be cursed in the state (or
                     city) and in the field, cursed in watching and cursed in sleeping, cursed in
                     eating and drinking, cursed in walking and sitting; MAY HIS FLESH AND HIS
                     BONES BE CURSED, AND FROM THE SOLE OF HIS FOOT TO THE CROWN OF HIS HEAD MAY
                     HE ENJOY NO HEALTH. May there light upon him the curse which the Lord sent
                     in the law by Moses on the sons of iniquity; may his name be erased from the
                     book of the living, and not be recorded with the righteous; may his portion
                     and his heritage be with Cain the fratricide, with Dathan and Abiram, with
                     Ananias and Sapphira, with Simon Magus and with Judas the traitor, and with
                     those who said to God, 'Depart from us, we will not follow thy ways.' MAY
                     ETERNAL FIRE DEVOUR HIM WITH THE DEVIL AND HIS ANGELS, unless he make
                     restitution, and come to amendment. So be it. So be it."—Pontificale
                        Romanum.
                  
                  Such, American fathers and mothers, are the disgusting dreams of sensuality,
                     the loathsome caricatures of spiritual truth, the horrible mockery of the
                     holiest relations, which Rome would furnish to your daughters instead of
                     God's own blessing upon a virtuous and useful life! Such are the heathenish
                     and blasphemous representations with which she would fill their minds
                     respecting that adorable Redeemer whose truth she mutilates, and whose
                     character she insults. "Filthy dreamers, ungodly men, turning the grace of
                     our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord
                     Jesus Christ."—Jude, iv., 8. "Having eyes full of adultery, beguiling
                     unstable hearts, they speak great swelling words of vanity; they allure
                     through the lusts of the flesh; while they promise them liberty, they
                     themselves are the servants of corruption."—2 Peter, ii., 10, 14, 18, 19.
                     Such, too, are the awful imprecations she pronounces upon any—upon
                     you—who would presume to attempt to withdraw your child from
                     the barbarous treatment, the close confinement, the unmitigated misery of a
                     forced imprisonment in the nunnery! Say, then, is there no urgent call for
                     such legal provision in this our free and happy country as will secure to
                     these poor victims of fantastic delusions and actual cruelties the
                     permission and the opportunity to leave these "priests' prisons for women,"
                     and return to the guardianship of your love and the protection of their
                     homes? Answer in the name of God and of your own obligations as parents, as
                     citizens, as reasonable beings.
               
               
               I arrived at St. Joseph's at about half past eight on an evening in the early part
                  of January, 1854. Rain was pouring in torrents when the stage stopped at the gate
                  of the yard through which "postulants," or candidates didates for admission into the establishment,
                  enter. This yard is inclosed on three sides by the chapel, the infirmary, and the
                  convent proper. I waited at the entrance for one of the sisters, who admitted me,
                  and led me through a porch, and along a dark corridor, into the "novitiate," a room occupied by the novices, or "seminary sisters," as they are indifferently
                  styled. At the door of this room I was asked in a harsh tone for the key of my
                  trunk. On presenting it to the sister appointed to receive it, I was told, in a
                  firm and decided manner, "With this key you renounce your own will
                     forever." The words fell like a doom on my heart, and I could not but
                  contrast the severity of this language with my treatment upon my former visit. I
                  was then conducted to the refectory, where a small piece of bread, and some coffee
                  in a tin cup, were given me. I scarcely tasted this food, and soon left the
                  refectory with a sister who conducted me to my sleeping apartment. We crossed a
                  passage leading near the Superior's room, walked down the corridor to a passage
                  beyond, and ascended a flight of stairs which communicated with a number of
                  cloisters, on each side of which was a row of cells. We entered a room at the end
                  of the passage, containing seven or eight small curtained bedsteads. The sister
                  who accompanied me pointed to one of these, which was numbered, and, placing a dim
                  lamp in a recess near the door, left the room. It was with mingled emotions of
                  surprise and fear that I gazed upon this novel and unexpected scene, scarcely
                  lighted by the faint rays of the lamp.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE CONTRAST.
               I NOW presumed that the introductory ordeal was finished, and began to make
                  preparations to retire and obtain the rest so much needed after the fatigue and
                  excitement of the day. But my trials for the night were not yet ended. Hearing a
                  slight noise at the upper end of the room, where there was another door, nearly
                  opposite the one through which I had entered, I looked anxiously in that
                  direction. Presently an aged sister, dressed in the "holy habit"—a costume which
                  will be described hereafter—came in, and approached me, holding in her hand a
                  large cup filled with a dark mixture, which she commanded me to drink. I attempted
                  compliance, but, finding the taste intensely bitter and nauseous, after swallowing
                  about half the quantity, begged to be excused from taking the remainder. Placing
                  it again to my lips, she sternly ordered me to drink the whole. I obeyed in
                  silence. The sister then informed me that she was the "mistress of novices," and
                  had charge over their conduct and employment, adding, that I must not rise from my
                  bed until called. She then withdrew.
               A strange sensation of bewilderment and stupor succeeded this incident, and I had
                  scarcely strength to draw the curtain
                  around my bed, when I fell into a deep slumber. I was awakened about four o'clock
                  by the deep toll of the morning bell calling to prayers in the chapel.
               The details here given show the art and skill employed to impress on the mind of
                  the novice the absolute subjection to which she must submit, and of which these
                  are, as it were, the preliminary tests. They go to prove that, from her first
                  entrance within the walls of the institution as a candidate for admission into the
                  community, she must learn to obey, without hesitation or demur, whatever may be
                  commanded her, as the first step of her initiation. This, if rightly managed, is
                  an important point gained; for here, as in all other matters, the impression made
                  at the outset is the most lasting and profound. Besides, the manner in which these
                  preparatory injunctions are submitted to, whether cheerfully and instantly, or
                  with expostulation and sullenness, must afford an insight into the character and
                  disposition of the postulant, of which advantage is taken in future proceedings,
                  in order to render her docile and obedient. In a word, these first requirements
                  are designed to teach the subject of them that henceforth she has no will of
                     her own, but the will of the Superior is her law, which must be obeyed even to
                     the slightest particular.
               
               It was some time after the first bell had sounded that a sister entered the room,
                  approached my bed, and in a low tone said that I might now rise and go to mass, as
                  the bell would ring in a few minutes. I rose and dressed in haste, and then waited
                  for the sister, who conducted me to the chapel, where the community nity had
                  already assembled. I was directed to a seat among the "postulants," near the
                  sanctuary. The altar of this chapel is of white marble; above it is a large statue
                  of the Virgin Mary, bearing in her arms the infant Jesus. At the foot of this
                  statue there is usually placed a vase of beautiful flowers. On one side of the
                  sanctuary is a small chapel with a confessional-box; on the other is the sacristy.
                  A narrow corridor behind the altar leads from the sacristy to this chapel; this is
                  the passage for the priests, and those who resort to the confessional. There are
                  two confessionals in the chapel where the community assemble, another in a small
                  chapel on one side of the sanctuary, and another below, in a chapel on the ground
                  floor, besides a chapel in the infirmary in which confessions are made. Those who
                  are too ill to leave their beds are attended by a priest, who seats himself beside
                  them. At the time of a jubilee, or a religious or annual retreat—which lasts from
                  eight to ten days—all these confessionals are supplied with priests.
               I shall, in continuing this statement, be compelled to recount facts and incidents
                  as they recall themselves to my mind, begging of the reader indulgence for
                  whatever repetition or want of order may consequently be observable in my
                  narrative.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE INSTITUTION AT EMMETTSBURG.
               THE institution of St. Joseph is situated in a beautiful vale about a quarter of a
                  mile from the town of Emmettsburg. The church or chapel fronts upon the avenue
                  leading to the main road. It forms one side of a square inclosing a large yard, on
                  the other side of which stands the infirmary. In the rear of this yard is the
                  building occupied by the community, and beyond it another quadrangle, which is the
                  academy—a separate edifice, connected with the "Mother House," as it is sometimes
                  called, by porticoes and by a balcony, over which the sisters pass when going to
                  their duties in the academy. Those inmates who are not employed in the latter
                  institution are not permitted to speak to or even look at one of the boarders,
                  either when crossing the porticoes attached to their house, or while at work in
                  their dormitories or in their refectory. This I was told on the first day after my
                  arrival, during my interview with the Lady Superior. I was also directed to
                  consider myself as henceforth entering upon a new life, so that I must not
                  recognize nor address as an acquaintance any individual in the academy whom I had
                  previously known "in the world."
               After an interview with the Father Superior of the institution, I was shown over a
                  part of the house occupied by the community. On one side of a corridor paved with
                  brick, upon the first floor, are the community-room, the novitiate, the Lady
                  Superior's room, and the priest's room. On the second floor are the cells, the
                  retreat-room, an apartment occupied by the mistress of novices, and a number of
                  other apartments, two or three of which were often kept entirely closed, though I
                  had reason to think they were inhabited at the time. The walls of the cells
                  occupied by the sisters do not reach to the ceiling. An open space of several feet
                  above them not only affords ventilation, but permits every sound to communicate
                  from cell to cell and to the cloisters.
               The community-room is used by those sisters who have been for eight
                  or ten years members of the sisterhood; prior to that time they occupy the novitiate. There are, however, members sent forth upon missions, who,
                  as will be explained hereafter, have never occupied the community-room, having
                  always been in the novitiate. The Superior seldom leaves her own apartment. Should
                  she desire to see a sister, the individual is sent for by one who has charge of
                  her room, and who attends at her door. No sister enters the room of the Superior
                  without permission. Should a priest enter while she is there, it would be her duty
                  to withdraw at once, unless told to remain. The male and female Superiors always
                  see each other alone, except in council—that is, in a secret meeting
                  of the Superiors and their officers. When a sister commits an offense, she is
                  brought before the council, and all affairs of importance are settled by these
                  inquisitors at such meetings ings. I was
                  frequently threatened with arraignment before this tribunal, but fortunately was
                  not brought up for trial.
               A few weeks after my admission, I observed that on every Wednesday, between the
                  hours of two and three in the afternoon, the windows of the novitiate and
                  community-room were closed, and the doors carefully locked. All the "postulants"
                  were then sent to the kitchen, myself among the number, there to remain at work
                  until the sound of the three o'clock bell. This I shall explain hereafter. This
                  period of the day is designated as the "silence hour;" it is a season of
                     strict silence; not one word may be uttered; the eyes are kept
                  fixed on the work or on the floor. It was some time before I learned the object of
                  this rule, as indeed of many others—not until I had made my
                  "retreat," which, as I have elsewhere stated, is an interval of
                  several days spent in prayer, meditation, and spiritual reading. During this
                  retreat, the rules and regulations are for the first time made known or read to
                  the "postulants" by the mistress of novices.
               Those who have recently entered the community, and are called novices or seminary
                  sisters, and not vowed or professed sisters, are nevertheless bound and compelled
                  to keep the vows with even greater strictness than those who are professed. The
                  vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience are to be observed by those young
                  sisters; but a priest*
                   may violate his vows with impunity, and the sisters will be constrained ed
                  to obey, being under the vow of obedience, which is of superior force to the other
                  obligations taken. He may err, but she will do right in obeying.
               
               
                  
                  *I speak here of the priests of the Order of "Lazarists," or Congregation of
                     Missions, which has the same founder with the Order of St. Joseph—the
                     priests being called the sons, and the sisters the daughters.
               
               A religieuse can not hold property of her own;
                  from the moment that she enters the community, it belongs to the Superior. She can
                  not, if at any time visited by her family or friends, see them without permission;
                  she can not receive or send a letter; neither can she give or receive any object,
                  even from a member of the community, without obtaining permission. Should one
                  sister desire to give another a small picture from her prayer-book, she must first
                  go to the mistress of novices, kneel, and ask to be allowed to make the gift.
                  Sometimes the request will be granted, at others the article will be taken from
                  her. Should the Superior or the officers suppose that a sister prefers a
                  particular duty, she is assigned one that she is known to dislike. Often is a
                  sister required to part with some sacred ornament even, as a set of beads, or a
                  crucifix, on the ground that there may be a special attachment for the object. The
                  rule requires that particular friendships should be guarded against. One sister is
                  not suffered to converse with another respecting her own private feelings, nor to
                  ask or answer a question, unless in the performance of a task, and that only when
                  absolutely necessary. In such a case it must be done in a very few words, and in a
                  very low tone of voice, almost in a whisper. A sister is not allowed to speak with
                  or recognize another in the corridor, or in any part of the house; but should an
                  officer—one having authority under the Superior—meet a sister, the latter must
                  answer in a low tone of voice, in as few words as possible, and with downcast eyes. No one is permitted to look
                  through a window, or to gaze around her; she must walk with a measured step, her
                  hands clasped on her breast, and her eyes fixed upon the ground. Sisters are
                  forbidden to look each other in the face; to do so is a breach of the rules. They
                  may not ask for any object whatever, and must receive every duty imposed without
                  murmuring.
               When a sister is sent for by the Father Superior, she is generally called by the
                  sister who keeps the door. She pauses at the threshold until told to enter, closes
                  the door, advances, and, kneeling, kisses the floor, at the same time saying,
                  "Father, your blessing." This given, she seats herself and listens to his
                  instructions. When told to depart, she again kneels and kisses the floor, and asks
                  his blessing. This degrading act is performed by every sister when entering or
                  leaving the novitiate, saying at the same time an Ave Maria—that
                  is, repeating once the angel's salutation to the Virgin, "Hail Mary," etc. Those
                  who wear the cornet, a head-dress hereafter to be described, kiss the crucifix
                  which hangs at the side attached to their beads, and say the Hail Mary.
               This prayer is generally said kneeling in front of an altar dedicated to the
                  patron of the institution, St. Joseph. It may be repeated, however, in any part of
                  the novitiate, except near the door. After this short petition, those who leave
                  the room, if more devout than the rest, sometimes turn toward the statue of the
                  saint and make a bow. A sister, in passing the statue of St. Vincent, founder of
                  the order, always bows and says a prayer invoking his intercession. Upon the altar
                  in the community-room is a very large statue of the Virgin Mary; every one bows
                  toward it when entering or leaving the room.
               Members of the community are sometimes allowed to have a small statue of a saint
                  in their rooms, or a picture of some devotional subject hanging upon the wall; but
                  they can not keep either without permission, and must resign the
                  object if commanded to give it up. This is occasionally done, doubtless as a test
                  of obedience. Not a word is to be spoken after the "silence bell," which rings
                  about eight in the evening. No sister is permitted to take a drink of water after
                  that time; it is a breach of the rule, and will be reported by those who watch,
                  who are placed around the house as spies, to notice every movement and make known
                  all infractions of order to the authorities of the institution.
               When suffering from thirst, it is deemed acceptable to God, and the suffering is
                  offered to the Virgin Mary as an atonement for some past sin.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               ROUTINE OF A DAY—MORNING.
               THE daily occupations of the inmates of a "religious house" consist wholly of
                  devotional exercises and domestic tasks. A brief relation of the manner in which a
                  single day is passed will give a correct idea of the ordinary routine of novitiate
                  life at St. Joseph's, and may be of interest to the reader.
               At the first stroke of the bell, which rings at four o'clock in the morning, every
                  novice or seminary sister rises hastily from her bed, falls prostrate, and kisses
                  the floor. At the same time, one who has been appointed utters this aspiration in
                  a loud, shrill tone of voice, that echoes through the dormitory, "In the name of
                  God, my sisters, let us rise;" and as the words resound through the dormitories,
                  the response is at once made, "May the holy name of God be blessed!" Should a
                  sister fail to rise at the first summons of the bell, or omit saying the
                  aspiration, she is reported, and is required to do penance as for a great offense.
                  In such cases one sister reports another, and is commended for so doing. All dress
                  with rapidity and in perfect silence, and make their beds; then proceed down two
                  pair of stairs to the wash-room, where the ablutions are performed without a word
                  spoken. Here some have to wait for others, and oftentimes all this has to be done
                  in the dark. While in the washroom, a bell is heard in a distant part of the
                  building: this is called the warning-bell. After the lapse of a few minutes
                  another bell is rung near the door of the room. Should a sister leave the room
                  after the ringing of this second bell, she is marked and reported by one who acts
                  in the capacity of a spy.
               Each proceeds next to a dimly-lighted room under the chapel, and takes from a
                  drawer, numbered for the purpose, her prayer-book, which she keeps there perhaps
                  with one or two other religious books. The books, however, which a sister may
                  bring with her on entering the institution are generally taken from her to
                  replenish the library. A small volume, called the Community Book, or Formulary, is
                  always kept in the pocket: it contains the prayers used by the sisterhood.
               When all have reached their places in the chapel, a small clock near the door
                  strikes the half hour, and should a sister enter after this period, she is
                  required to go to the mistress of novices, kneel before her, and kiss the floor,
                  in addition to which she may expect the infliction of some farther penance.
               The sister who is appointed to read prayers now says, "My sisters, let us remember
                  that God wishes to be adored in spirit and in truth, therefore let us pray to him
                  with our whole heart, and with attention: In nomine Patris," etc. Then follows a
                  prayer commencing thus: "My God, I believe that thou art here present," etc. A
                  prayer is then said to invoke the assistance of the Holy Ghost in the performance
                  of the morning meditation. After another
                  short prayer, the first "point" of the morning meditation is read. This "point" is
                  a short sentence, or a few sentences, mentioning some topic of devotional
                  contemplation, as the circumstances of our Lord's Passion; the utterance of which
                  is followed by a silent meditation, lasting half an hour. The second point of the
                  meditation is read when the clock has struck the next half hour. It is observed in
                  a kneeling posture, with the body perfectly erect and motionless, and the hands
                  clasped in front of the breast. The position is most painful and fatiguing, and
                  taxes the powers of endurance to a very trying extent. The slightest movement,
                  while thus engaged, is severely punished, and not unfrequently the poor sister who
                  is compelled to remain so long in this attitude of rigid constraint becomes
                  exhausted and faints before the exercise is over. The hour completed, a sister
                  says, "Let us thank God for the graces we have received during our meditation."
                  Then follows a prayer—"I thank thee, O God, for the holy light," etc. Other
                  supplications are added in English and in Latin. Soon the church-bell rings, and
                  the Angelus is repeated. The sister who has been appointed to read
                  says, "Angelus Domini nuntiavit Mariæ," etc. (The angel of the Lord declared to
                  Mary, and she conceived of the Holy Ghost.) The community respond "Ave
                     Maria," etc. Then another sentence, "Behold the handmaid of the Lord,"
                  etc., followed by another Ave Maria. Then the sister says, "And the Word was made
                  flesh, and dwelt among us," when every sister kisses the back of the seat before
                  her. During Easter week the Regina Cœli (a hymn to the virgin
                  "Queen of heaven") is substituted for the "Angelus."
               When the bell is heard again, a prayer is said, beginning, "Pour forth, we beseech
                  thee, O Lord, thy grace into our hearts," etc. Then the "Litany of the holy name
                  of Jesus" is repeated in Latin, several prayers follow, together with the
                  Miserere, the Creed, the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary, and the De Profundis, which
                  is said for the repose of the last Superior or priest, the directress, and the
                  confessors.
               These prayers being finished, the sister says, "Let us remember the presence of
                  God, and the resolutions we have taken in the meditation we have made." The
                  Superior's assistant then repeats one verse of the Veni Creator
                     Spiritus, and the community respond, the whole terminating with a short
                  prayer to the Holy Spirit. Then the "offering of the chaplet" (or rosary) is made,
                  commencing "In nomine Patris," etc., and proceeding thus: "My God, I offer thee
                  the chaplet I am going to say," at which words every sister takes her beads in her
                  hands, "to praise and glorify thee, to honor thee; sixty-three years the blessed
                  Virgin passed on earth; to beg of thee the grace to imitate her in the virtues
                  which she practiced, particularly her humility, her charity, her obedience, her
                  hidden and interior life; to comply with our holy rules and vows; and for our
                  deceased sisters for whom we have not yet satisfied; for the wants of the Church,
                  of the community, those of the seminary, and our own in particular; with the
                  intention of gaining the indulgences attached to our chaplet, and for all those
                  for whom we are most bound to pray, as well living as dead. I believe lieve, etc. Our Father. Hail Mary. Glory be to the
                  Father," etc.
               The morning service concludes with a prayer to the "Mother of God" in these words:
                  "Most holy Virgin, I believe and confess thy most holy and immaculate conception,
                  pure and without stain. O most pure Virgin, through thy virginal purity, thy
                  immaculate conception, thy glorious quality of mother of God, obtain for me of thy
                  dear Son humility, charity, great purity of heart, of body, and of mind, holy
                  perseverance in my cherished vocation, the gift of prayer, a holy life, and a
                  happy death." From this prayer it will be seen that the sisterhood at St. Joseph's
                  were a step in advance of the papal infallibility in the acceptance of the dogma
                  of the Immaculate Conception before its promulgation at the court of Rome. "V. Behold the handmaid of the Lord. R. Be it done unto
                  me according to thy word. V. O Jesus! be to me a Jesus. R. Now and at the hour of our death. Amen." Then the "mystery" for the day is
                  said—that is, a short petition having reference to some part of our Lord's
                  passion, as, for instance, "O Jesus, by thy prayer in the garden of olives,
                  grant," etc. Each sister now kisses the seat in front of her, and the church-bell
                  rings for the first mass.
               Two masses are said every day at St. Joseph's, the second of which is attended by
                  the boarders, and those of the community who are more privileged, being permitted
                  to sleep until the "Angelus," or about two hours after the first bell. The first
                  mass being over, the sisterhood proceed in rank, two by two, in perfect silence,
                  to the novitiate and community-room. After entering the novitiate, every sister
                  kisses the floor. Those wearing the cornet, however, kneel and kiss
                  their crucifix, bending nearly to the floor, as their head-dress, extending to a
                  point that projects over the face, prevents touching the floor in this ceremony.
                  Then are said three times the Ave Maria, and seven times the
                     Gloria Patri.
               
               Prayers over, the sisters fall upon their knees, kiss the floor again, and proceed
                  in rank to the refectory. Here all turn toward a crucifix that hangs upon the
                  wall, kneel, and kiss the floor; then each says the Benedicite,
                  kissing the floor; and seating themselves, they eat in perfect silence their
                  morning meal. This consists of a morsel of bread, often without butter, and coffee
                  and tea served in tin cups. Coffee is the beverage of the community, and no one
                  can take tea without obtaining permission to do so. No spoons are used; the tea
                  and coffee are prepared in the kitchen, and poured into each cup as the portion
                  allotted. Breakfast concluded, each kisses the floor, again repeats the
                  Benedicite, again kisses the floor, returns to the novitiate or community-room,
                  and taking her prayer-book, places it in the drawer appropriated to her. Each then
                  proceeds to her particular occupation—some to the dormitories, cells, kitchen,
                  refectories, sacristy, cellars, clothes-room, wash-room, and other parts of the
                  building; and those who teach in the academy to their classes when the bell rings.
                  Silence and "recollection"*
                     are required to be strictly observed.
               
                  
                  *Recollection, in French recueillement, is
                     used in the jargon of Romanism to signify a devout collectedness of
                     mind—abstraction from the world.
               
               
               In addition to all the religious observances and duties foregoing and hereafter to
                  be related, there are prayers and "aspirations" to be said at every
                  hour of the day, as follows: Whenever the clock strikes an hour, a sister rises,
                  crosses herself, and says, in a loud tone, "Live, Jesus," and bows her head. Every
                  sister responds, "Forever in our hearts." Then the mistress of novices repeats the
                  "mysteries," of which there is a different one for every hour of the twenty-four.
                  These are the mysteries of our Lord's Passion. When this is said, the sister who
                  is standing commences a long prayer, "O sacred heart of Jesus," etc.; after which
                  the mistress of novices makes an "aspiration" for the month, and the
                  sisters respond. The sister then resumes her place. Every hour of the day or night
                  the sisters thus "make the hour," as it is called, either orally or mentally, if
                  they are awake.
               The performance of floor-kissing, in token of humility, takes place,
                  I venture to affirm, at least twenty times in the course of the twenty-four hours.
                  One might suppose from this ceremony that some peculiar and magical property
                  resides even in the senseless boards of this holy institution.
               In addition to the religious exercises thus briefly described, from eight o'clock
                  in the morning till nine at night an uninterrupted "adoration" before
                  the altar is maintained. By this I mean that, during the time specified, some one
                  member of the community must be constantly kneeling at the altar in the chapel and
                  reciting prayers.*
                   Each sister engaged in this office remains mains for half an hour in the
                  attitude of devotion, when, as the clock strikes the termination of her duties,
                  another sister who has just entered kneels behind her and takes her place. One of
                  the sisterhood is appointed to see that this adoration be constantly kept up; and
                  she must so arrange the succession of duties, that they shall not interfere with
                  the other employments of those whom she calls upon to make this adoration. Severe
                  penance is inflicted should she be remiss or unsuccessful in this charge; and it
                  is a most burdensome one, as I have learned by experience.
               
                  
                  *This perpetual adoration, as it is called, is in behalf of the extension of
                     the congregation of the missions.
               
               Should a sister finish her work before the eleven o'clock bell, which rings for
                  prayers, she goes to the novitiate, and takes some work from a sister having
                  charge of the plain sewing; but this seldom occurs. At the first sound of the
                  bell, each must leave her employment and come to the novitiate, kiss the floor,
                  and take her place in rank. Should a sister fail to be in time to take her place
                  in the ranks which are formed to proceed to the chapel, she goes to the side of
                  the mistress of novices, kisses the floor, and is assigned a penance for her
                  offense. This penance consists of a number of prayers.
               In passing before a certain statue of St. Vincent de Paul, founder of the order,
                  which stands in a corner of the corridor, the sisters invariably bow. In going to
                  the chapel, as well as in returning, the rank must be preserved, and the sisters
                  thus advance with eyes fixed upon the floor, repeating, at the same time, a "ten
                  of the chaplet," consisting of ten Ave Marias, one Gloria
                     Patri, one Pater Noster, and a prayer to the Virgin,
                  commencing, "Most holy Virgin, I believe
                  and confess thy holy and immaculate conception," etc.
               All being assembled in the chapel, each sister kisses the back of the seat before
                  her. The bell rings, and at the sound of it the Superior, or, in her absence, her
                  assistant, says the prayer commencing "Veni Sancte Spiritus," etc.
                  Then the "examination of conscience" is gone through, all kneeling with the hands
                  clasped before the heart. This ended, the sister appointed to read prayers says,
                  "For our deceased sisters and benefactors, the De Profundis;" and
                  that psalm is repeated. A short prayer in Latin and one in English, addressed to
                  the Virgin Mary, close these devotions, which are called the dinner-prayers.
                  Before leaving the chapel, the Superior, or her assistant, raps loudly, when every
                  sister kisses the back of the seat before her, and takes her place in the rank.
                  Then, with beads in hand, and eyes cast down, saying another "ten" of the chaplet,
                  they go to the refectory. Should any disorder occur during this procedure, the
                  delinquent is reported by one of the sisters stationed as a spy for this
                  purpose.
               In the refectory are placed five tables. One is occupied by the vow-sisters, over
                  which the Superior presides whenever she takes her meals in this hall. Habitually,
                  however, she has them served in her own room. Another seat is taken by her
                  assistant, another by the mistress of novices, another by an officer, and the
                  remaining one by a novice, which was assigned to me. Dinner consists generally of
                  soup—which is the chief article of food—meat, potatoes, and bread. Of vegetables a
                  very few, and small variety. No fruit is ever allowed to the novices, and rarely
                  to the vow-sisters, as far as I know.
               Each sister has a napkin at the side of her plate, knife, fork, and spoon (which
                  are of iron or pewter), and a tin cup. After the ceremony of turning to the
                  crucifix, clasping the hands upon the breast, and saying the Benedicite, which is
                  repeated by the Superior or her assistant, the meal is partaken of in silence by
                  those occupying the tables, while a chapter is being read from the Lives of the
                  Saints, or from a book entitled Christian Perfection, and another from the Roman
                  Martyrology. This reading is performed by one of the sisters, who takes her own
                  dinner when all have withdrawn from the refectory. Another waits on the tables,
                  and, when all have finished, gives intimation of the fact to the Superior or her
                  assistant by a bow in front of her; then, at a loud rap on the table, all rise,
                  clasp their hands as before, and again repeat the Benedicite. The rank is again
                  formed, the Superior going first with her officers, followed by the vow-sisters
                  and novices or seminary sisters, saying, as usual, a "ten" of the chaplet, and
                  bowing when they pass the statue of St. Vincent. As soon as all are seated in the
                  chapel, the bell rings, and each, as usual, kisses the back of the seat before
                  her. Several prayers are now said in Latin, after which the sisters retire to the
                  community-room and novitiate. In the latter room several prayers are said before
                  the altar of St. Joseph.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               ROUTINE OF A DAY—AFTERNOON.
               THE prayers after dinner being ended, the sisters proceed to their respective
                  duties, at which not an unnecessary word is to be spoken. Should any one finish
                  her task before two o'clock, she goes to the novitiate, and then may obtain the
                  privilege of conversing until two o'clock, but only upon permitted topics. This is
                  termed the period of recreation.
               
               To prevent the interchange of thought and opinion, very strict regulations exist
                  on the subject of conversation. The only seasons allowed for this purpose are
                  these few minutes after dinner and supper, and then, as I have said, only upon
                  certain topics. Any observations or inquiries respecting the health and feelings
                  of the sisters are especially prohibited. At their occupations or duties no
                  talking is allowed, except so far as may be absolutely necessary for their proper
                  discharge. In addition to this, as will be seen, there are seasons of positive and
                  complete silence, during which not a single word is permitted.
               Before the two o'clock bell sounds every sister gets her Catechism, and takes her
                  seat in the novitiate*
                   with the work given her during the recreation-hour. From two to three
                  o'clock is an interval of strict silence. Not a voice is heard throughout the
                  entire building, and not a member of the community raises her eyes from the floor,
                  the Catechism, or the work upon which they are fixed. Should any sister need a
                  supply of thread, or another needle, or a pair of scissors, she is not suffered to
                  ask another sister for what she requires, nor to receive it if offered, nor even
                  to ask the mistress of novices, who is walking around the room. She must sit
                  through the hour without being able to perform the work assigned to her, for which
                  very failure she will assuredly be obliged to do penance. In such cases, a sister
                  will often, for fear of discovery by the mistress of novices as she passes by,
                  move her beads, or otherwise feign occupation, trembling all the while lest her
                  want of employment be observed.
               
                  
                  *It will be observed that these statements of the occupations of the sisters
                     are confined to the novitiate, where I had my place. Of what occurred in the
                     community-room, among the "vow-sisters," I do not at present speak.
               
               During this season the mistress of novices is continually perambulating the room,
                  peering into each face; and should she observe the eyes of any sister in the least
                  uplifted, or the face raised, she will put her hand on the head, and, with a
                  sudden jerk, force it downward, saying, "Keep your eyes down." Sometimes she gives
                  a lecture during this silence-hour, and at the close of it a spiritual reading is
                  performed by one of the sisters appointed beforehand for the purpose. This reading
                  is selected either from the "Life of Christ" or from the "Conferences," of which
                  more hereafter. The sister appointed goes, at the close of the lecture, to a table in the centre of the room.
                  She then receives a signal from the mistress of novices, who nods her head, raises
                  her hand, or raps upon the table, and then says, "In
                     nomine," when the sister at once takes up the invocation, repeating
                  it in Latin, and then adding in English, "In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ."
                  Then she takes hold of the book with both hands and commences to read. Should any
                  of these formalities be neglected, the mistress of novices advances to the sister
                  and reprimands her severely.
               The "class sisters," or those engaged in teaching in the academy, sometimes come
                  in late, just after the ringing of the bell, being detained by their duties. In
                  such cases the rules are more particularly enforced, and penance is enjoined; as
                  also in cases of walking too fast, holding up the head, raising the eyelids, etc.
                  This penance consists in kissing the floor, kneeling before the altar, saying
                  prayers, etc. The Superior and the mistress of novices recommend that, in going to
                  or from their duties at the silence-hour, the sisters should be engaged in "saying
                  beads," or repeating the prayers customary in the use of the chaplet.
               In one instance I was late at the silence-hour, and came in with a handkerchief in
                  my hand, as it was a very warm day. The mistress of novices called me to her,
                  rebuked me sharply, and made me kiss the floor, saying that it looked too worldly
                  to have a handkerchief in my hand instead of keeping it in my apron pocket. She
                  threatened me with severe penance if found guilty of such an offense again.
               In the community-room, during silence-hour, the sisters have
                  spiritual readings for about a quarter of an hour; the remainder of the time they
                  spend in any kind of fancy-work that they may select. Their eyes are also kept
                  down, but the Lady Superior does not, like the mistress of novices, move about to
                  watch the countenances of the sisters; she remains in her own room, and reads or
                  sews. At this hour silence is also observed in the infirmary. The
                  sick read some religious book, and sometimes say a "ten" of the chaplet. At the
                  close of silence-hour the three o'clock bell is rung, and the mistress of novices
                  says a prayer called the "Adoration Prayer," the sisters responding. Those class
                  sisters who leave the community-room and novitiate before the close of
                  silence-hour, at half past two, say this prayer before the bell rings, in a small
                  chapel of the academy.
               After the three o'clock bell, as it is called, every sister goes at once to her
                  usual duties. Silence and recollection are observed in doing this, as at other
                  times. The utterance of a single unnecessary word is reported, every part of the
                  building having its spy for that purpose.
               Before five o'clock, those who finish their tasks resort to the novitiate, and
                  take sewing from the sister who has charge of the work. When the clock strikes
                  five, all in the room range themselves on one side in a row, and one takes a chair
                  apart from the rest to "say beads." Six "tens" of the chaplet are then said, all
                  responding. Then are repeated the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, the Litany of the
                  Virgin Mary; and about the close of the prayers the bell rings for the evening
                  meditation. After assembling as usual in the novitiate and community-room, the
                  rank is formed, and the sisterhood
                  proceed to the chapel, where half an hour is spent in meditation and prayer. After
                  prayers the bell rings, and the sisters walk in order to the refectory for
                  supper.
               Supper consists of a piece of bread, with sometimes a small piece of butter, and
                  sometimes molasses. After this meal a "ten" of the chaplet is said in the chapel.
                  If it be the evening before holy communion, at least as often as three times a
                  week, the sisters must obtain permission to receive the sacrament. The moment
                  before leaving the chapel, the vow-sisters kneel before the Lady Superior or her
                  assistant, and say, "Please, mother," or "sister," if it be her assistant, "let me
                  go to holy communion," and then they kiss their crucifix. The Lady Superior sits
                  near the door behind the sisters, and in this supplication they turn their backs
                  to the altar. As the vow-sisters are rising from their knees and forming the rank,
                  the novices, who sit between them and the altar, turn toward them, kneel, kiss the
                  floor, and say, "Please, sisters, let me go to holy communion." On the day before
                  communion, at silence-hour, the novices have also to obtain permission from the
                  mistress of novices in the same manner, but without speaking. Then is said the
                  usual prayer in the novitiate and community-room, after which all retire to their
                  duties. A number of the sisters go to the refectories, where the tables are to be
                  prepared for the morning meal. Should the work be finished before the bell for
                  prayers, all go to the novitiate and community-room. This is also called the hour
                  of "recreation," when such of the sisters are allowed, as after dinner, to
                  converse upon permitted topics ics. At eight the silence-bell is rung. The
                  meditation for the following morning is read in advance by a sister, to occupy
                  their wakeful moments during the night.
               I should say that, after supper, each of the sisters is required to take her
                  knitting; no one sits idle for a moment, even during the so-called "recreation."
                  After the reading of this meditation, the mistress of novices calls upon some
                  sister to offer remarks upon the subject of the meditation. The sister called upon
                  usually expresses her thoughts in a few sentences; sometimes several are called
                  upon during the evening. At the ringing of the second bell, at eight and a half
                  o'clock, the sisters form rank and proceed to the chapel, where night-prayers are
                  said till about nine o'clock. These prayers are similar in a great degree to those
                  of the morning.
               Before the close of prayers, every light is extinguished in the chandelier which
                  hangs from the centre of the chapel, and only one is left—that burns night and day
                  before the tabernacle in the sanctuary. The sisters leave the chapel in the usual
                  order, and retire to their cells. From nine o'clock till breakfast is over on the
                  following morning, absolute silence is to be maintained. During this time it is
                  not allowed to take a drink of water. No sister is permitted to see another after
                  she goes to her cell; it would be a breach of the rule for one sister to see the
                  head of another uncovered. While undressing for the night, "aspirations" are said
                  by many, the practice having been recommended by the Superior and the mistress of
                  novices.
               If this narrative of a day's employment at St. Joseph's seph's—embracing only the more "spiritual" and
                  devotional occupations of the sisters—should appear interminably tedious to the
                  reader at a single perusal, I beg him to estimate the weariness of body and soul
                  that must be endured by the poor sufferers of this infliction, repeated from day
                  to day, from week to week, with scarcely a variation in the monotony of its
                  routine.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               "DUTIES" OF THE SISTERS.
               SUCH is the procedure of religious observances for a single day at St. Joseph's.
                  Some portions of it are of course subject to deviation for the several feasts,
                  Sundays, fast-days, and other special occasions. From this statement the reader
                  may have obtained a faint conception of the incessant toils and fatigues thus
                  imposed. But he must take into consideration, besides these "spiritual" exercises,
                  those manual and menial employments in which the members of the community are
                  daily engaged, and which are technically called their "duties." These consist
                  chiefly of those labors that are generally performed by servants in a private
                  family, but which, in so large an establishment, must necessarily be far more
                  numerous and burdensome.
               An "officer," as she is designated, superintends each separate department of the
                  domestic economy, and exercises control over those employed in her service, by
                  whom she must be implicitly obeyed, without murmur or hesitation. The kitchen,
                  laundry, infirmary, refectory, meat-house, clothes-room, dormitories, scullery,
                  etc., etc., have each its overseer, and those appointed to perform the appropriate
                  duties. But besides these there are the teachers in the academy; the "angels gels," as they are styled, who watch over
                  the boarders, and sleep in their dormitories; and the sacristan, who has charge of
                  the sacristy, church, chapels, and confessionals. There is also a sister to wait
                  on the Superior, and who is, in fact, her servant; one to keep the priest's room
                  in order; and another—a young and handsome sister being always selected for this
                  duty—to carry his meals to him. Each has her allotted task, which must be
                  performed faithfully and strictly, and she must be ready at a moment's warning to
                  assume a new duty, or leave her work when ordered. All the work of the academy and
                  institution is performed by the members of the community, and between these
                  occupations and those exercises already described, not a minute is lost, from four
                  o'clock in the morning till nine at night.
               Some estimate of the amount of individual labor accomplished by the sisterhood may
                  be drawn from a relation of my own experience. For the first three weeks after
                  entering the institution, I was employed in the refectory, where, commencing after
                  breakfast, the following is an account of a day's duties: Brought in two tubs of
                  water; washed the cups, bowls, knives, and forks; cleared off five long tables,
                  and carried the plates, about one hundred in number, to the kitchen to be washed;
                  swept, and sometimes scoured and scrubbed the floor of the refectory; brought back
                  the plates, and arranged the tables for dinner; cleaned the knives and forks; kept
                  up a fire in the stove, etc. After dinner, performed the same work, and prepared
                  the tables for supper. After supper, washed and cleaned up every thing again, and
                  prepared for breakfast fast. At the end of three weeks I was transferred to the
                  academy, where I taught music and French, and worked in the refectory at night. My
                  occupations then were varied. Sometimes I cooked and washed, at other times I was
                  employed in the infirmary, waiting on the sick and making their beds,
                  administering their medicines, and assisting in cupping, blistering, and other
                  hospital duties.
               It must be borne in mind that, besides the faithful execution of these
                  requirements, the sisters are compelled to be punctual at all the devotional
                  exercises already described.
               The observance of these duties and devotions comprehends an aggregate of endurance
                  and suffering such as will speedily exhaust the strength and destroy the tone of
                  the most sturdy constitution. Numbers every day are so utterly overcome, that when
                  the hour of repose arrives, it is with difficulty that they reach their cells ere
                  they fall fainting to the floor. What a mockery of religion, as well as of mere
                  humanity, to summon so often for acts of worship these poor creatures, whose limbs
                  are writhing with pain, and whose frames are worn out with excess of weariness,
                  especially when so many of those exercises are performed in postures more
                  fatiguing than even the servile duties by which they have been preceded! How can
                  the mind and heart be profitably engaged in circumstances such as these?
               To illustrate the facts here stated, I may allude to the case of a novice who fled
                  from the institution, notwithstanding the Mother Superior's assertion that all are
                  at liberty to depart at will, and took refuge with a Presbyterian clergyman in Emmettsburg. She had not
                  abjured the Catholic faith, but made her escape on account of her inability to
                  sustain the grievous burden of labor imposed upon her. "She had supposed," she
                  said, "that the institution was a centre of holy influences, and that nowhere else
                  could she serve her Maker with such entire self-consecration, but she found
                  nothing like religion there." So deep was her disgust with her experience of the
                  life in the sisterhood, that she declared, "If to continue a 'Sister of Charity'
                  would certainly take her to heaven, she would not consent to remain." It must have
                  been the recollection of great suffering that elicited such language. The case of
                  this novice will be referred to again, when I come to speak of the Mother
                  Superior's letter.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE "CONFERENCE."
               THE order of observances here described is varied on Wednesday by a convocation of
                  the sisters called the "Conference," or "Chapter." As already mentioned,
                  postulants are not permitted on that day to remain in the novitiate during the
                  silence-hour, which is from two to three o'clock in the afternoon. They are then
                  sent to the kitchen or elsewhere, to be out of the way, while the sisters assemble
                  in the novitiate and community-room.
               It was after my "retreat" that I learned the nature of the performances on this
                  occasion. The room having been darkened by closing the window-shutters tightly, so
                  that the only light admitted came through the upper part of the Gothic arches of
                  the windows, the sisters then assembled, and took their places arranged round the
                  room, the mistress of novices being seated at a table at one end near the door. At
                  first, all kneel, and say certain prayers, during which the "class sisters," or
                  teachers in the academy—who, upon hearing the bell, repair thither from their
                  duties—noiselessly enter, and kneel near the door until the prayers are ended.
                  Every sister not so engaged must be in the room before the two o'clock bell rings.
                     After ter prayers, all seat themselves
                  and take their work, except four or five of the "cornet sisters," or sisters of
                  the "holy habit," nearest to the altar of St. Joseph, which is at one end of the
                  room. These continue kneeling toward the altar, each behind the other in a row,
                  and in front of her own seat. The first sister in this row, after kissing her
                  crucifix and crossing herself, places the palms of her hands together in front of
                  her breast, and then "makes her accusation," which she does in the following
                  form:
               "My God, I most humbly ask thy pardon, and to you, my sister, I accuse myself of
                  my faults. I accuse myself of having walked too heavily, or of making too much
                  noise in shutting the doors; of giving my eyes too much liberty; of not accepting
                  advice in a spirit of humility; of not being 'recollected,'" etc., etc. After
                  specifying some such offenses, the accusation concludes thus: "For these faults,
                  and many others of which I am guilty, I most humbly ask pardon of God, and beg
                  you, my sister, that you will please to give me penance." Sometimes it is added,
                  "I ask for spiritual charity in the next conference." Having said thus, the
                  sister, before leaving the novitiate, will take an opportunity to whisper in the
                  ear of a sister whom she may select, "I ask of you spiritual charity
                  in the next conference."
               The first sister, having finished her accusation, takes her seat, and the one
                  immediately behind her commences. This continues until all the five have performed
                  this duty. Just before the last one has concluded, the next four or five kneel in
                  the same manner, each, when her accusation is ended, resuming her seat and
                  commencing her work. This proceeding lasts till all have knelt and accused
                  themselves in turn. Any sister who has accused herself and has asked for
                  "spiritual charity" in the previous chapter, will say after her accusation, "I
                  asked for spiritual charity in the last conference." Thereupon at once the sister
                  whom she then notified will kneel and say, "In a spirit of humility and charity I
                  accuse my sister of speaking in time of silence," or any other fault she may
                  remember or please to imagine. She ends with these words: "I know myself to be
                  guilty of these faults and many others, for which I most humbly ask pardon of
                  God," and then resumes her seat. Penances, as punishments, are then inflicted by
                  the mistress of novices.
               Frequently it will happen that in making these accusations the sisters will speak
                  in too low a tone. The mistress of novices will then give three loud raps, and
                  say, "What sister is that speaking?" To which the sister must reply, giving her
                  name. She is then awarded some penance, such as kissing the floor two or three
                  times, as a punishment, and is commanded to speak louder. The sisters will often
                  tremble with agitation during this ceremonial. The conscience is at work; and
                  fears lest they should commit some error in the repetition of the formula, for
                  which they would inevitably be punished, keep them in constant anxiety and alarm;
                  more especially is this the case with those young novices who have heard the
                  expressions but a few times, and are allowed no other way of learning them than by
                  hearing the words repeated on these occasions.
               
               The mistress of novices, before the commencement of this cruel process, opens a
                  little black book, and reads a collection of reports made to her by her spies,
                  accusing such of the sisters as they may choose to impugn of whatever
                  transgressions they are pleased to ascribe to them; and the poor novices, who,
                  perhaps, have never dreamed of the offenses which they thus find alleged against
                  them, are not allowed to defend themselves, or make a word of reply, but must
                  receive, silently and submissively, whatever reproof or punishment may be imposed.
                  The opening of this little book spreads alarm and terror throughout the
                  novitiate.
               After the accusations, a small book is taken from a closet, which is read during
                  the remainder of the silence-hour. This book contains the rules of the house. At
                  three o'clock the great bell rings rapidly and loud, in remembrance of our Lord,
                  who expired at that hour upon the cross, and every sister instantly falls upon her
                  knees, each holding in her hand her crucifix, gazing intently upon it, and kissing
                  it reverently and passionately; the "adoration" prayer is then said, and this
                  closes the chapter. Conferences are held in the community-room also, but I do not
                  know the forms used there, nor am I certain that the same day is selected for the
                  purpose.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               CONSUMPTION AT ST. JOSEPH'S.
               IT can scarcely be matter of surprise that, with so much labor and so little rest,
                  the most robust health, subjected to the life of a convent, should be shattered,
                  and the strongest constitution undermined; still less will it be wondered at that
                  young girls of weak and delicate frames should speedily prove martyrs to a system
                  so exacting. Even at night, when the wearied sister, on the hard couch of her
                  narrow cell, woos the "sweet restorer, balmy sleep," to recruit her energies for
                  another day of toil, it is often impossible to obtain repose. Many a time have I
                  been awakened in the depth of night by shrieks and screams that made my very blood
                  run cold. Often have I heard groans and exclamations of distress, and then, in
                  sweet and tremulous tones, the warbling of some poor, heartbroken sister, who,
                  perhaps, in dreams revisited the home of her childhood, but for whom the interests
                  of real life were buried in darkness forever. Again would the silence be disturbed
                  by the slow and measured footfall of a priest, summoned, perhaps, to administer
                  the holy viaticum to some dying sister in the infirmary.
               One night I was unusually alarmed by a loud and prolonged shriek, proceeding from a neighboring
                  part of the dormitory, and a heavy fall as of a body striking the ground.
                  Immediately after I heard a person running past my cell toward the passage beyond.
                  The sounds frightened me so much that I was unable to close my eyes during the
                  remainder of the night. The following evening, during "recreation," a young sister
                  who was seated next to me asked me if she could speak without being reported. I
                  looked at her with surprise; but, seeing that she was pale and agitated, I told
                  her, although against the rules, that she might speak without reserve, and tell me
                  the cause of her distress, promising that I would not divulge it, but would serve
                  her if in my power. She then informed me that she had been very much alarmed the
                  night before, and asked if I had heard a strange noise and a loud shriek. Upon my
                  assent, she stated that about midnight she had been awakened by a heavy step
                  around the bed, and was so frightened that she could scarcely breathe. As soon as
                  the sound had ceased, she felt something heavy at the foot of her bed, when she
                  uttered a scream, and the person, or fiend, for she knew not which, rolled heavily
                  to the floor, and, uttering a wild, demoniacal yell, fled rapidly down the
                  cloister. So much had these occurrences terrified her, that she dreaded retiring
                  to her cell, and was in a constant state of agitation and fear.
               The very next night I heard a shriek, if possible, louder than the previous one.
                  The following day I learned from a young sister that some one, at midnight, had
                  walked round her bed several times, after which she had felt a pair of hands seize
                  her by the throat, nearly stifling her for a moment, whereupon she uttered the
                  scream I had heard.
               Many an hour have I remained awake, revolving in my mind occurrences like these,
                  for which I vainly endeavored to account. But more distressing than these
                  frightful sounds was one far more common: the painful cough of the consumptive,
                  which from more than one cell would be heard, announcing the presence of that
                  fearful disease, elsewhere so dreaded, but here invited, and rendered almost
                  inevitable by the course of life prescribed. I was told, and it was generally
                  taught, that consumption is a part of the vocation. Sometimes I have
                  found it out of the question to obtain an hour's repose, in consequence of the
                  continual cough of some poor sister, who, wearied with the arduous duties imposed
                  upon her during the day, would reach her cell with the help of others, in a few
                  days more to be ordered to the infirmary, linger a little longer, receive the last
                  sacraments, then welcome death as a release from her sufferings, and be carried to
                  the graveyard near at hand.
               One evening, while ascending the steps to my cell, I noticed a sister leaning
                  against the wall as if for support, and breathing heavily. I imagined her unable
                  to reach her cell, but could not speak, as it was silence-hour. Unwilling to pass
                  her without notice, I offered my arm, which she accepted, and I assisted her to
                  her cell. The following day she was sent to the infirmary, and soon after
                  died.
               Numbers die at the institution every year. I know of fourteen who died during the
                  ten months of my stay in the community, and I saw at least twenty recent graves before I left. They are buried in
                  regular rows. There are four infirmaries, in one of which there are several insane
                  sisters. There is one for the old and infirm, who are totally unable to go about
                  the institution, and who sometimes, though with great difficulty, reach the choir,
                  which is very near, where they perform their devotions. The large infirmary
                  connected with the house, though a separate building, is filled with the sick and
                  the dying. It is divided into two departments: the lower, on the first floor,
                  being occupied by the young sisters or novices; the upper, in the second story, by
                  the vow or professed sisters. In this department there is a small chapel, where
                  confessions are made by those who are unable to go to church or to any of the
                  confessionals.
               The lower infirmary is a large room, on each side of which is a row of small
                  curtained bedsteads, about seven in number. At the end of a passage leading past
                  the entrance to this room, there is a very small passage at right angles,
                  connecting with a room where those who die in this infirmary are laid out. At the
                  other end of the infirmary is a passage, on one side of which there are two doors,
                  one leading to the refectory, and the other to the kitchen. On the opposite side
                  is a store-room, where provisions are kept in small quantities for those who
                  occupy the infirmary. In this passage a flight of stairs leads to the upper
                  infirmary. At the top of these stairs, on the right, there is a sitting or work
                  room for those sisters who, though ill, are permitted to walk about the upper
                  infirmary—that is, to go from their apartments to the chapel, work-room, and
                  medicine-room. Many of the professed ed sisters are allowed to take their meals in
                  the infirmary on account of loss of appetite and impaired health, caused by the
                  want of better fare.
               The rules of the infirmary are framed and hung up in the work-room. Whoever
                  transgresses these rules is reported by the "infirmarian," her assistant, and
                  others. These rules are substantially as follows:
               No sister is allowed to enter the infirmary without permission from the Superior,
                  or other officer of the community. When entered, she must at once see the
                  infirmarian, and act according to her directions.
               She must ask for nothing, but receive whatever is given her without a murmur.
               She must observe strictly the community rules—that is, must repeat her prayers,
                  keep silence, and refrain from speaking to any other sick sister without
                  permission.
               When sent to bed, she is not to rise without permission, nor leave the infirmary
                  unless directed to do so.
               Those sisters who are allowed to take their meals in the infirmary-refectory are
                  not permitted, when passing through the building, to speak to a sister who is
                  sick, but must walk with eyes cast down, and hands folded across their
                  breasts.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               FIRST INDICATIONS OF DISFAVOR.
               I HAD been in the community about two months when a letter from my family was
                  received by the Superior. It was handed or sent by her to the mistress of novices
                  for perusal in the novitiate. When the mistress of novices had finished reading
                  the letter, she called me to her. I instantly obeyed, fell on my knees before her,
                  and kissed the floor. She then told me that she had a letter for me from my
                  family, and would not give it to me, but would read a few sentences of it aloud.
                  She did so, and I was unable to control my emotion, or to restrain the tears that
                  rushed to my eyes. Seeing me so agitated, she became very angry—for it is esteemed
                  a step toward perfection to suppress all demonstration of feeling—and seizing me
                  by the shoulders while I was kneeling before her, she threw me violently backward.
                  My head striking the floor, I became insensible, and was taken, as I afterward
                  learned, to the infirmary, where I was reported by the mistress of novices as
                  detained by "ill health."
               After leaving the infirmary, I was looked upon with an inquiring glance by many,
                  who would fain have asked me respecting my health, but neither they nor I durst
                  utter a word on the subject. It is positively forbidden to say any thing relative
                  to one's feelings, or to make inquiries about any one who has been sent to the
                  infirmary. Should any thing occur there, it is not to be spoken of in the
                  novitiate or community-room; nor is any thing that happens in those rooms to be
                  repeated in the infirmary.
               Sometimes we would miss a sister for several days together; but we did not know
                  where she was, and were not permitted to ask after her. It is forbidden to notice
                  when any person comes or goes, or to inquire why such a sister is removed from one
                  place to another; and before we would have farther tidings, she might be dying or
                  dead in the infirmary without our knowledge.
               But it was not long before other occurrences made me conscious of the fact that I
                  had incurred the displeasure of my superiors, and that I must expect the strictest
                  surveillance and punishment for the least omission of duty or infraction of the
                  rules. Unintentional errors, such as in others would be overlooked, were sure to
                  be visited upon me; and every word I uttered was duly reported by spies set to
                  watch my conduct. One evening, exhausted by the labor undergone during the day, as
                  I was carrying a tub of water from the kitchen to the refectory, I remarked to a
                  sister, "How very hard we have to work!" This was, of course, reported to the
                  Superior. While at breakfast on the following morning, I was sent for to come to
                  her room. I went, and found her much displeased. She threatened me with condign
                  punishment in case another word of complaint were spoken relative to the labor imposed. She said that "if I should
                  ever again complain, I would get myself into trouble." I left her room with the
                  determination to be silent in future. At this period I did not know the rules,
                  having not yet made my retreat. I was often rebuked, and more than once threatened
                  with arraignment before the "council" by the sister who had charge of the
                  refectory.
               One night, having been sent by the mistress of novices to the infirmary on account
                  of some indisposition during the day, I asked permission of the "infirmarian" to
                  retire before night-prayers, being unfit for the fatigue of kneeling during such a
                  length of time. She answered, "No; I had come thither to suffer and do penance,"
                  and might return to the infirmary after prayers. I did so, but was told that I
                  must rise from my bed at the ringing of the first bell—at four in the morning—and
                  must attend morning-prayers and the first mass. This infirmarian was ere long,
                  however, succeeded by a new one, to the great satisfaction of the young novices,
                  as she did not enforce the rules with the strictness of her predecessor.
               One evening, about this time, after duties, having been sent to the infirmary to
                  watch by the bedside of a sister who was very ill, I noticed in a bed near by a
                  young sister apparently dying of consumption. She was beautiful; her large dark
                  eyes shone with unearthly brilliancy; her face was very pale, save one bright spot
                  on each cheek, that spoke plainly of her approaching doom. Once or twice I noticed
                  that she sighed heavily; and, watching her more closely, I discovered the tears
                  trickling down her cheeks. My sympathy was roused, and, crossing the room to her
                  bedside, I inquired how long she had been in the infirmary, and whether she were
                  improving. She had been there, she said, all winter, and was no better. Raising
                  her hand, which was covered with a handkerchief, she told me that she was in great
                  suffering. I saw that the hand had been opened, as by a surgical operation. She
                  did not know why it had been done, and felt sure that she would lose it. A few
                  days later she was sent away from the institution, nor did I learn for some months
                  after where she was. I shall have occasion to speak again of this sister in
                  another place.
               The Lady Superior, mistress of novices, and infirmarian had, particularly the two
                  latter, since the reception of the letter from my home, manifested toward me a
                  severity of character which alarmed me. The Lady Superior, even in her rebukes,
                  would usually close by some mild and persuasive remark, which went far to
                  alleviate my wounded pride and lacerated feelings. I had no reason to believe that
                  she had any hostile feeling toward me, except on account of my evident and still
                  strong attachment to my family.
               The treatment I received, however, produced a great change in my outward conduct.
                  Fear, a sense of duty, and the cherished hope of obtaining permission to depart,
                  all combined to induce me, at least apparently, to submit with perfect patience
                  and resignation to the will and wishes of my superiors; and although my heart
                  ached for that lovely and suffering sister, and my curiosity was aroused to the
                  utmost to know more of her, yet I dared not prolong the interview at this time for
                  fear of the infirmarian.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE ILLUSION AND THE REALITY.
               HAVING made my retreat as a postulant, when, for the first time, I learned and
                  fully comprehended the nature of the sacrifice demanded of me, I saw that the
                  chief requirement was an abject submission to the will and commands of the
                  superiors in every respect; that their dictates must be regarded with
                  the same reverence as the voice of God himself; that the highest holiness was made
                  to consist in an entire surrender to their control—physically, spiritually, and
                  morally, as to the Almighty; that this obedience required a renunciation of
                  father, mother, sister, and brother; in whose stead the Father and Mother
                  Superiors of the institution, the members of the community, and the priest, must
                  thenceforth be regarded with filial and sisterly devotion; that every affection of
                  the heart must be stifled, every earthly tie broken, and an eternal farewell
                  bidden to home, friends, and country.
               As these considerations crowded upon my mind, I became terrified at the prospect.
                  I determined to write home and declare that my resolution was altered, and that I
                  no longer desired to follow the life of a Sister of Charity.
               It did not occur to me for a moment that any obstacle cle would be interposed to
                  prevent my withdrawal from the community. I had been told that this was not a
                  "close convent;" and even from such it is publicly declared that a
                  novice is at liberty to depart at any time before assuming the black veil. I was
                  still attached to the Roman Catholic faith, but I found it impossible to reconcile
                  myself to the idea of subjecting my will and affections to the slavery enforced by
                  the vows of the society. I was self-convinced that my "vocation" for such a life
                  was a figment of the imagination, and that my spiritual welfare would not be
                  promoted by a forced obedience to rules abhorrent to my nature. But, alas! I was
                  soon made to feel that already the chains of a cruel servitude had bound me hand
                  and foot; that already I was under the full control of a heartless organization,
                  whose only motives of action were its own aggrandizement, and a base subserviency
                  to the ambition of an unscrupulous priesthood.
               In accordance with the resolution thus formed, a few days before the time
                  appointed for my reception into the sisterhood, I wrote to my father announcing my
                  intention to withdraw from the institution and return home. This letter, as is
                  customary, was read by the mistress of novices, and afterward submitted to the
                  Mother Superior. I was soon summoned to her presence, where, on my knees, I was
                  asked, sternly, why I had perpetrated such a piece of folly. I told her, in brief
                  and respectful terms, of the change in my views, and of my desire to return
                  home.
               No sympathizing reply, nor even a mild dissuasion, followed this statement; but,
                  to my astonishment, the Mother Superior, tearing the letter to pieces and
                     throwing ing the fragments into a
                  stove near by, harshly answered that, having renounced my own will in this matter,
                  I must persevere to the end for the good of my soul, and God would bless my
                  determination. No remonstrance on my part was listened to, but I was compelled to
                  write another letter, at her dictation, declaring my happiness in my
                  present condition, and my entire contentment with it, and adding that I would
                  accordingly remain and make my vows at the institution. I was completely cowed,
                  and obeyed in fear and trembling, with the certainty that even if I should then
                  resist, I should be finally constrained by punishment to obey. How trying the
                  alternative! What more painful and revolting to the feelings of a daughter than
                  thus to be compelled to write a lie to her parent—to persuade the loved ones at
                  home that she was happy and contented, when her heart was torn with anguish, and
                  when the first symptoms of despair, like a gathering cloud, shut out those bright
                  anticipations she had been forming of a speedy reunion with the family circle. I
                  retired from the interview with sensations that no language can express, and such
                  as I trust never to experience again. That night was spent in silent tears and
                  bitter thoughts.
               After this rebuff, a settled feeling of despondency took possession of my mind,
                  though I was constrained, through fear of punishment, to avoid a betrayal of my
                  sentiments. My highly-wrought expectations had vanished; my prospects of happiness
                  were scattered to the winds. At this time, too, my faith in popery received a
                  shock; my eyes were partially opened to the rashness of forsaking the church of my
                  fathers, and attaching myself to a system whose crooked policy was now in process
                  of development before me. An honest self-examination, serious reflection, and the
                  influence of events that followed this first display of intrigue and deception,
                  completely uprooted every vestige of my previous preferences, and enabled me both
                  to appreciate my own folly and to perceive the distorted lineaments concealed
                  under the attractive mask that had allured me. If I have suffered—and God only
                  knows how poignantly—from the injustice and malevolence of my oppressors, still am
                  I deeply grateful that these sorrows should have been the means of awakening me to
                  a sense of my error, and of disclosing the truth in its purity to my
                  perception.
               All this, however, did not take place at once; and though, as I have said, my
                  enthusiastic anticipations disappeared, and a thick cloud overspread my spirit,
                  there came as yet no thought of rebellion against the control of my superiors. I
                  resolved to perform the duties allotted me, and submit patiently to the
                  consequences of my own rashness, until, as I still vainly hoped, I should be
                  permitted to depart in peace. Not the remotest idea of escape was then cherished,
                  and it was not till circumstances occurred, the recollection of which even now
                  causes an involuntary shudder, that I was rendered desperate, and determined to
                  brave every consequence, and even death itself, sooner than remain incarcerated in
                  a prison such as this.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               POOR JULIA.
               I HAVE said that disease and death are busy actors among the inmates of St.
                  Joseph's. Consumption, that dread yet insidious foe of the young and innocent,
                  stealing, like the tiger of the jungles, with noiseless step and remorseless
                  purpose on its unsuspecting victim, and fastening its deadly grasp ere the
                  approach be suspected, makes sad ravages here. Worn out with incessant toil, and
                  with an unremitting observance of the oppressive routine of useless forms;
                  subject, also, to frequent exposures to changes of temperature, not only in
                  passing over the porches to and from the academy, but also from a frequent lack of
                  clothing, and sleeping in cold cells without sufficient covering, to say nothing
                  of the effects of sudden prostration of the body upon the cold floor at four
                  o'clock every morning, it is no wonder that the sisters, and especially those of
                  them who are most conscientious in the discharge of their laborious duties, should
                  often fall a prey to this fell destroyer.
               But a short time after my admission to the sister-hood, I entered the novitiate
                  one morning at an earlier hour than usual, and saw a sister sitting before a table
                  with her head resting upon her hands, and violently weeping. No one being present,
                  I went up to her, and kneeling at her side, asked affectionately why she wept so
                  bitterly. She answered that the cause of her sorrow could not be revealed; that
                  she would fain speak to me without reserve, but could not do so; and added,
                  "Sister, I was for many years a boarder here, and received my education from the
                  sisterhood; but I did not dream of what a religious life is. I can not tell you
                  how I have been deceived. I do not care to live." Hearing steps in the adjoining
                  corridor, we separated for fear of being observed, and at her request I left by a
                  side door.
               This young lady was the daughter of a wealthy Southerner, who had placed her at an
                  early age in the academy, where she had remained several years, acquiring all
                  those accomplishments that were suited to fit her for the sphere of society in
                  which she was expecting to move. Having completed her studies, and spent a couple
                  of years at home, she urged her father to permit her to revisit with him the
                  peaceful vale where she had passed so many happy days of her childhood. As he
                  intended to take her younger sisters to the same institution for their education,
                  he consented that this eldest daughter should accompany them, and make a short
                  stay at the institution. Her purpose in this request was to enter the sisterhood,
                  should opportunity present itself; but this design was, of course, concealed from
                  her father, who would have opposed it at once. Upon arriving at St. Joseph's, the
                  daughter spent much time in the company of those who, no doubt, had persuaded her
                  to embrace this resolution, and on the eve of the father's departure it was for the first time made known to
                  him. Upon hearing of her determination, he became greatly displeased, and demanded
                  that she should be called to speak with him, but he was told that he could not see
                  her, as she had gone over to the house occupied by the sisterhood. There her
                  beautiful long hair was severed from her head, and sent to her father as a parting
                  gift, and the white cap of the postulant was put on. A few weeks elapsed; her
                  health began to fail, and soon after becoming a novice she was so unwell as
                  frequently to be sent to the infirmary. Often, when coming with her from our
                  duties in the academy, have I seen her cling to the railing of the porches for
                  support, while the tears were streaming from her eyes.
               Though unable at first to draw from her the cause of her distress, at length, one
                  evening, as I urged her to confide in me, she took from her pocket a tiny
                  stocking, and said, with much emotion, "This is the only relic I have of my little
                  baby brother." She had brought him with her to the institution, as she could not
                  bear the thought of parting with him at home. "It was a bitter trial, sister," she
                  continued, "when my mother died, a year before I entered the community; but it is
                  harder yet for me to give up all hope of ever seeing my little brother again."
               A few days after this conversation I missed her from the novitiate, and learned
                  that she had been sent to the infirmary. I asked permission of the mistress of
                  novices to visit her, scarcely expecting, however, that I should be allowed to do
                  so. To my surprise, leave was granted for a short interview. I found the sister in
                  bed, supported by pillows, her face flushed with fever, and evidently in deep
                  distress. No one being near us at the moment, I took her slender hand, thin almost
                  to transparency, and asked if she were better. "No, my dear sister," she replied;
                  "I am worse; I am dying;" and she inquired whether I too were sick and had come
                  for medicine. "Do not take a cold, sister, for it is always fatal
                     here."
               I could remain but a short time, and when I left, promised to seek a speedy
                  opportunity of visiting her again. A week or two passed, during which I made many
                  inquiries concerning her health, but could learn nothing. When again allowed to
                  see her, I was alarmed at the change a few days had wrought. She was then but the
                  shadow of her former self, and could scarcely speak above a whisper. Since her
                  first illness she had refused to take any nourishment, or any thing that was
                  thought calculated to afford relief. She would wipe the blood from her lips, and,
                  smiling sadly, say to me, "I shall soon be gone, and my poor father will not know
                  of my death."
               One evening, as I was passing through the infirmary, carrying a message from the
                  mistress of novices, she called me, and though it was a breach of the rules, I
                  went to her bedside. She requested me to hand her her knitting. I refused to do
                  so, as she was scarcely able, from extreme debility, to raise her hands. Said she,
                  "Sister, did I say my work? mine? What is mine?" Then
                  making an effort to rise from her bed, she fell back fainting on her pillow. When
                  consciousness returned, she burst into a flood of tears, crying, "My poor father!
                  my mother!"
               She was ill two months, during which time she did not rise from her bed. She would often say to the
                  infirmarian, "Sister, what is the matter with me? Please to tell me." The evening
                  of her death she had several convulsions, and after recovering, asked where she
                  had been. She then said to one of the officers at her bedside that she had seen
                  her mother, who had come for her, and she could stay no longer. The officer,
                  supposing that she alluded to the Mother Superior, was about to send in haste for
                  her. "No," exclaimed the poor sister, "I mean my own dear mother." The words had
                  scarcely passed her lips when she expired, without having received the last
                  sacrament or made her vows.
               She was laid out in her novice's dress; her beads and crucifix were laid upon her
                  breast. As usual, a sister watched by the corpse until morning, when mass was said
                  for the repose of her soul. She was placed in a plain wooden coffin, of dark
                  color, and beautiful indeed was this unfortunate girl in death. A white rose had
                  been laid upon her bosom by some member of the community, perhaps by the sister
                  whom I overheard making the following remark, which showed that she at least was
                  not utterly devoid of feeling: "Yes," she murmured, gazing upon the fair remains,
                  "she came to us a bud; now she has gone, a rose in perfect bloom."
               Her coffin we covered with a black pall and bore to the chapel, where, as I have
                  said, mass was sung for her repose. Beside the corpse six lighted candles were
                  placed. The altar and paintings were shrouded in mourning. After mass, while the
                  chapel bell was tolling, six novices carried her to the grave-yard near by, and
                  the community followed two by two in the usual manner. Thus the once admired,
                  accomplished, and beloved Julia was committed to her final rest.
               During her illness, her sisters, who were in the academy, were permitted to see
                  her but once, a few moments before her death, when she asked to see them; nor were
                  they permitted even to write to their father of her illness. He knew nothing of it
                  until subsequent to her decease, but not long after he sent for his two daughters
                  from the academy. He was a Roman Catholic.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               SISTER SERAPHIA.
               AS I have stated, the novices at St. Joseph's have occasion frequently to remain
                  at night with those who are ill. It is also their duty to carry the coffin of the
                  dead, and watch through the night at its side. This they sometimes do quite alone
                  in the chapel.
               The former of these offices I have many a time performed, among the sick and dying
                  in the infirmary. I was for some time an assistant in that department of the
                  institution, having been put on duty after a very severe illness, and as soon as I
                  was sufficiently strong to walk from one bed to another.
               One night, during that illness, hearing a strange noise in a neighboring passage,
                  I arose, and went to the door of the infirmary. It was dark. I walked on a few
                  steps, when I fainted, and fell to the floor. I know not how long I remained
                  unconscious. Upon my recovery, it was some time before I could find the door, and
                  when I did so, I ascertained that the lamp, which burns through the night, hanging
                  from the centre of the room, had gone out. It was with difficulty that I reached
                  my bed, which I accomplished by feeling on the floor for a register near it. I
                  remained ill for many days, and much of the time unconscious of all that passed
                  around me.
               On a bed opposite to mine lay a young sister, who had the consumption, and was
                  pronounced incurable. The second winter after her admission she had taken a severe
                  cold, which received no attention. At length she was sent to the infirmary, but
                  there found no relief.
               When, after my recovery, I was placed on duty in the infirmary, I took particular
                  care of this sister. A short time before her death, she said to me, as I was
                  arranging her pillows, "Sister, you have been so very kind to me, that I wish to
                  see you after I die; and if Almighty God will permit, I shall come back to you,
                  and tell you of the unknown world." I told her that I hoped she might do so. I
                  prepared her to receive the last sacrament, arranging the table, and placing upon
                  it the candles and crucifix. She received the extreme unction, made her vows, and
                  expired.
               The day subsequent to Sister Seraphia's death, I received a message from the
                  mistress of novices directing me to keep watch alone in a small chapel on one side
                  of the sanctuary in the church. Entering that chapel, I was startled at the sight
                  of a coffin covered with a black pall. At once I imagined that it was the corpse
                  of the young lady who had died on the preceding day. I seated myself by the
                  coffin, and in perfect silence began my lonely vigil. My thoughts could not but
                  recur to the circumstances of her decease—to her exclamations in the conscious
                  approach of death, when she cried out, "I am going! I am going!" and called on the
                  names of the saints to help her in that extremity. I remembered also, as I sat keeping solitary watch by the side of
                  the dead, that strange promise which she had made me; and my mind, already growing
                  superstitious under the influence of constant meditation upon supernatural
                  occurrences, was now uneasy at the slightest sound. I had been thus engaged for
                  about an hour, when suddenly the folding doors between the chapel and the
                  sanctuary, which had been locked, burst violently open, with so loud a noise that
                  I uttered a scream, and rushing to the door, held one side, while the other,
                  striking the table as it flew open, overturned it, with the candle and the
                  crucifix. Then, seizing both leaves of the door, I held them till the sacristan,
                  who had doubtless heard my scream, if she did not hear the noise made by the
                  doors, came in. She asked me, in a whisper, what was the matter. I told her I was
                  greatly alarmed, but did not explain the particulars. She closed the doors,
                  relocked them, and left me. I then arranged the table and crucifix, relighted the
                  candle, and seated myself once more by the side of the corpse. I fully expected
                  every moment to see her rise from the coffin. As she had promised to revisit me,
                  now, I thought, was the moment; and, possessed with this idea, I placed my hands
                  across her breast, and called her several times by name. I should not have been
                  surprised if she had answered me, nor, indeed, at any thing that might have
                  happened; for, during my stay in the infirmary, I witnessed scenes and heard
                  sounds for which I was unable to account. Soon another sister came to relieve me;
                  and, as I was about to leave, I said to her, "Should you hear or see any thing,
                  don't be alarmed, sister." She asked me if I had been frightened; I made no reply;
                  and she then could not be persuaded to remain. I staid therefore alone until the
                  morning, but heard nothing else to disturb the still repose of death.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               MYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
               I HAVE said that many things occurred during my stay at St. Joseph's that seemed
                  strange at the time, and, however easily to be explained as machinations of
                  miracle-working priestcraft, caused much alarm and excitement among the community
                  where they were enacted. This will scarcely seem matter of surprise when it is
                  considered what an atmosphere of superstition and what a world of imaginary fears
                  surround the poor inmates of a convent.
               One of the older sisters, having died, was committed to the grave with the usual
                  ceremonies, and the members of the community retired from the spot, leaving the
                  sexton to complete the interment. When he had commenced to fill up the grave with
                  earth, a loud and distinct rapping was heard to proceed apparently from the
                  interior of the coffin. The sexton was surprised, but thought his ears deceived
                  him, when, the sounds continuing, he became greatly terrified, dropped his spade,
                  and ran in haste for the priest. It was only after much solicitation that the
                  latter would consent to accompany the sexton to the grave, not believing his
                  story; but finally he was persuaded to do so, in order, as he said, to convince
                  the frightened man of his folly. On arriving at the place of burial, the sounds
                  were still heard, and, by command of the now apparently startled priest, the
                  coffin was taken out and opened, and the cornet raised from the face of the
                  sleeper to see if any signs of life remained. But she lay in the stillness of
                  death, and the rapping had ceased. The coffin being again committed to the grave,
                  the sounds were resumed, more loudly than before, and then continued to be heard,
                  fainter and fainter, till smothered beneath the weight of earth, as the priest
                  hastily directed the sexton to fill up the grave.
               Around the walls of the cell where this sister died, knocks were repeatedly heard.
                  A sister who was ill, and who slept there, told me she could not rest for the loud
                  rapping that occurred, and begged me to get her a lamp to burn at night; but
                  lights are not allowed in the cells of the institution, and no one, with the
                  exception of a few who have special charge, is permitted to possess a candle or a
                  match at any time.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Miracles have been rife at the institution of St. Joseph's. "On the 10th of
                     June, 1820," soon after the death of Mother Seton, the founder of the
                     establishment, "one of the sisters, who had been reduced by an accumulation
                     of diseases to the very verge of the grave, was suddenly restored to
                        health, immediately after receiving the holy communion. For
                     thirty-six days she had not been able to retain the least particle of food
                     on her stomach; and whenever she attempted to take any nourishment, it was
                     ejected with such violent sufferings as to create the apprehension of
                     immediate death. The physicians having exhausted all the resources of their
                     art, and the case having been pronounced desperate, she was advised by Mr.
                     Dubois to make a novena, or nine days' devotion, in honor of the holy name
                     of Jesus, in union with Prince Hohenlohe, who, on a previous occasion, had
                     announced that on the tenth of each month he would pray for the intentions
                     of those living out of Europe. On the last day of the novena she received
                     the blessed sacrament at the hands of the Reverend Superior, and all her
                     morbid symptoms instantly disappeared. On the 10th of August,
                     another case of disease, but of a much more aggravated character, was also
                     suddenly cured by performing a similar novena in union with Prince
                     Hohenlohe."—Life of Mrs. Seton, p. 444.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               GRADES IN THE SISTERHOOD.
               IT is time that I should endeavor to explain the meaning of the several terms that
                  have been here used in designation of the several grades that exist in the
                  sisterhood at St. Joseph's; those, namely, of Postulant, Novice, or
                     Seminary Sister, and Professed Sister. The
                  explanation will exact of my reader some little patience and attention. I shall,
                  however, make it as plain and brief as possible.
               A POSTULANT is one on probation in the community. She wears in general a plain
                  black dress with a cape, and on the head a white cap, concealing a part of her
                  face. The period of postulancy is seldom protracted beyond the space of three
                  months. It may be less than this, according as the Superior shall determine. I
                  myself took the habit before the expiration of that period. The postulants are not
                  all retained in the institution; many are sent away within a few days after their
                  arrival. But, though they may be turned off, they can not leave of their own
                  accord. This depends upon the will of the Superior alone, their own will being
                  renounced at their entrance.
               The rules and regulations of the sisterhood are not fully made known to a
                  postulant until the period of her retreat. The purpose of this
                  retreat, indeed, is chiefly to acquaint the postulant with the nature of the three
                  vows—those of poverty, chastity, and obedience—and the obligation she then assumes
                  is expressed to her in language somewhat as follows: "You do now bind
                  yourself to keep forever these vows," etc. No response is required, but in
                  silence, total, abject silence, all is to be listened to with the most thorough
                  acquiescence. This retreat lasts from five to eight days. The time is spent in
                  silent prayer and meditation, nor is the postulant allowed to utter a solitary
                  word during this period. At its close the "habit" is received. The postulant then
                  becomes a NOVICE, or "Seminary Sister." Such she continues to be until the
                  expiration of five years, when she "takes the vows." These vows I believe to be
                  none other than those communicated in the retreat of the postulancy. These once
                  assumed, she becomes a Professed Sister.
               The "holy habit," which is worn by the professed sisters, is given
                  to the novices whenever the Superior may please to grant it. I had been measured
                  for my own shortly before my escape; this, probably, was owing to the fact of my
                  employment in the academy, and my subordinate charge of the novices in the
                  novitiate at "adoration," and in the refectory.
               The "novitiate-room" is occupied by the postulants and novices, the
                  former being seated on benches in the centre, and the latter in seats along the
                  walls, facing the postulants.
               At the termination of the five years when the "vows are taken," the novice does not gain access to the
                  community-room among the "professed;" although she is then a professed sister, she
                  is still called a novice. A farther probation is required before admission to that
                  room. Three years at least, amounting, with those already spent in the novitiate,
                  to eight, and sometimes even to ten, must yet elapse before these sisters, now
                  called "novices professed," can become occupants of that higher sanctuary called
                  the community-room.
               Thus it will be perceived that there are in what is termed the novitiate-room
                  three classes of sisters—postulants, novices not professed, and novices professed;
                  the last, and some of the second class, wearing the holy habit. The term sister is
                  applicable to all the grades in the community; and when we speak of the community
                  generally, we mean the entire body or sisterhood.
               The three to five years that are spent in the novitiate before admission to the
                     community-room, besides the five years above mentioned,
                  constitute, doubtless, a sort of probation, during which it may be ascertained
                  whether the sister be qualified by natural capacities, or by acquirements of
                  education, for the duties of a "sister of charity," or whether she be sufficiently
                  reliable to be intrusted with the secrets of this higher grade before she can be
                  sent abroad into the world on a mission. This is particularly requisite in the
                  case of those who are designed for teachers, and for "sister-servants" to take
                  charge of the mission houses, or to perform other duties that demand more or less
                  ability. Such a probation is not required, however, of those sisters who are
                  ignorant or of homely appearance ance. These are often sent out at an earlier
                  period to fill subordinate places, as servants in mission-houses, and for other
                  stations.
               It will be seen, then, that in the community-room none are admitted
                  as inmates until they have spent at least eight years in the institution. This is
                  the rule, and no exceptions are, to my knowledge, allowed. There may be other vows
                  beyond those which were communicated to me, and much also concerning the vows I
                  have named; the latter, doubtless, is the fact. These vows are more strictly to be
                  kept by the novices than by the "professed" in the community-room.
               I have noticed that each PROFESSED SISTER, as well as each of those who intend to
                  assume the vows, when approaching the time of that assumption, carries in her
                  pocket a small black book, tied with black tape, which is attached to it at the
                  pointed end of a lappet of some black material, extending beyond one cover, and
                  folding over it like a pocket-book. Should this book fall, or be left by accident
                  lying in any place, its contents would thus be concealed unless the tape were
                  unfastened. I always supposed, from the care taken to keep this book out of view,
                  that it contained something of an improper nature relative to the vows assumed, a
                  supposition which was engendered by reading in the books of the conferences. The
                  sisters generally read this book before confession.
               I am aware that after the first five years the sisters are required to
                     renew their vows yearly, on a certain fixed day, and in words they
                  do make the vows from year to year, but in heart they bind themselves forever. At
                  these appointed periods of renewal, the sisters ters respond to their vows in an audible tone of
                  voice. This is done at high mass, just before communion, and with the remembrance
                  that those who perform the act have no longer any will of their own.
                  The rule declares that they can not leave the institution during this interval of
                  renewal, nor during the course of the year. And the vows must be thus renewed
                  yearly, on the day set apart for the purpose. Before entering St. Joseph's, I was
                  told that I could leave at any moment at my pleasure. I was assured that, not only
                  before the expiration of the five years of novitiate, but even after that period,
                  I should only be bound to remain for a year at a time, being free to renew my vows
                  at the end of each period or not, as I might choose. This I found to be all fraud
                  and deception.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               COSTUME OF THE SISTERS.
               IT may be well here to describe, in a few words, the costume of the sisterhood, before farther explanations respecting
                  the vows. The dress of a novice consists of a black gown, a dark blue apron, with
                  a boddice covering part of a small white shawl, falling gracefully over the
                  shoulders, and not concealing the form. On the head is worn a closely-fitting cap,
                  made of white muslin, covering the ears and concealing the hair, which has been
                  cut short. Over this cap is worn a white "bonnet," the "bobs" of which fall over
                  the shoulders to the waist behind. Over the "bonnet"*
                   again is the black "capot," a kind of silk veil that hangs over the
                  shoulders, extending nearly to the feet. This dress is also called the sister's
                  habit, or the seminary dress.
               
                  
                  *Pronounced bonné.
               
               The "holy habit," or dress worn by the older sisters, consists of a gray cloth
                  gown, an apron of the same material, loose hanging sleeves, and beneath it a white
                  linen sleeve that fastens around the wrist. Over this is drawn in winter a close
                  worsted sleeve. Around the neck is worn a broad linen collar, falling nearly to
                  the waist in front, where the ends overlap each other slightly. The head is shaved
                  close, and is covered with a
                  closely-fitting cap called the touquoir. Over this is worn the "cornet," which is
                  a broad piece of linen, fashioned into a species of bonnet, and drawn to a point
                  above the face; it projects in front over the forehead about six inches. The
                  sides, or "wings," droop to the shoulders, but do not touch them. The sisters
                  often say, "These are the wings that will carry us to heaven."
               Large heavy beads, with a crucifix attached, are worn at the left side, and
                  constitute a part of the dress. These are to be distinguished from the chaplet
                     beads,*
                   which, when not carried in the pocket, are worn on the right side. Some of
                  the sisters possess, attached to the chaplet, a small crucifix, said to be made of
                  the wood of the tree under which St. Vincent was in the habit of sitting. The holy
                  habit, when put on or taken off, is always reverentially kissed. The costume at
                  first adopted by Mrs. Seton for the institution of St. Joseph's is thus
                  particularly described in her life: "A black dress with a short cape, similar to a
                  costume that she had observed among the religious in Italy. Her head-dress was a
                  neat white muslin cap, with a crimped border, and a black crape band around the
                  head, fastened under the chin."—P. 253.
               
                  
                  *
                     Chapelet, French; rosary.
               
               The shoes worn by the sisters are of the coarsest kind. Speaking of them, I may
                  mention, as an illustration of the petty annoyances which are designedly practiced
                  upon the younger sisters, for their spiritual advantage no doubt, the
                  following incident. Shortly after my entrance as a postulant, Sister J. P——met me
                  in the corridor, and, looking down at my gaiterboots boots, she said to me, "You
                  must not wear such shoes as those; come with me." I followed her to a room on the
                  ground floor, partly paved with bricks, used for bathing, and also as a shoe
                  depository. Having seated me on a small bench, the sister said, "Put out your foot
                  here;" and then, for a long time, looked for a pair of shoes to fit me. They were
                  all too large; and as I expressed my dissatisfaction, she said, "It's no matter;
                  you don't want your feet to look small; you are not 'in the world' now;" and so
                  saying, she took the smallest pair she could find, and placed them on my feet.
                  These shoes, like all the rest in the room, were made of leather, with a strap on
                  each side of the instep, and tied with a leathern string. The soles were about
                  half an inch thick. Once a week we blacked our own shoes in the same room. A few
                  days after this, the same sister met me limping, and asked me what was the matter.
                  I told her that my feet were chafed by the slipping of the shoes up and down when
                  I walked, and by the binding or cord around the top. She then went with me into
                  the refectory, and cut the binding, which somewhat relieved me. It was long before
                  I could accustom myself to the use of these shoes. A few weeks before I left, I
                  had a new pair given me, having worn the former through on one side. That pair was
                  then given in my presence to a postulant; whether they were mended or not
                  afterward, I can not say. The Lady Superior wears morocco buskins.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE VOW OF POVERTY.
               THE first of the vows taken in the institution, namely, that of poverty, is of
                  sufficiently plain significance, its purpose being evidently to enrich the
                  establishment by so much property as the members of the community may possess, as
                  well as to derive from their manual labor all their earnings, over and above the
                  amount required for their own support. As members of the community, they would
                  naturally be more likely to donate their possessions to the institution than
                  otherwise to dispose of them. But, moreover, their vow of poverty not only
                  precludes them from retaining this property within their own hands, but actually
                  places all they possess at the disposal of the Father Superior, as declared by the
                  "Rules," and as stated in the "Conferences," which are read when the sisters
                  assume the habit.
               A sister breaks the vow of poverty should she see upon the floor a pin or a
                  needle, a piece of thread or cotton, or any other trifle, and fail to take care of
                  it. Economy is carried even to parsimoniousness for the advancement of the order.
                  Under this vow, a sister can not wish for any object, even though it be a new
                  habit in case that the one she wears has been worn threadbare, or is torn or
                  patched, she must wait and be contented till another be given her.*
                   The work from which the note below is taken was often quoted from for our
                   edification.
               
                  
                  *"The second degree of poverty," says the Roman Catholic Textbook for Nuns,
                     "is to deprive yourself of whatever is superfluous, for the smallest
                     superfluity will prevent a perfect union of the soul with God. St. Mary
                     Magdalene de Pazzi went so far as to strip her little altar of all its
                     ornaments except the crucifix. St. Theresa relates of herself that, knowing
                     God to be most jealous of religious poverty, she could not 'recollect'
                     herself in prayer so long as she retained any thing which she thought to be
                     superfluous. If in your convent there is not a perfect community of
                     property, endeavor at least to imitate the poverty practiced by the most
                     exemplary and exact among your companions, as well in dress as in food and
                     furniture. But you will perhaps say that whatever you possess is retained
                     with the leave of the Superior. Permission to keep superfluities may save
                     you from the punishments inflicted on 'proprietors,' but will
                     not secure to you the merit of perfect poverty. Again, you will perhaps say
                     that you have no attachment to what you keep; but whether you have an
                     attachment to it or not, the possession of what is not necessary will always
                     prevent you from attaining the perfection of poverty. You may imagine that a
                     certain sum of money or a certain amount of property will enable you to
                     relieve the poor or to assist your companions, but I repeat that it is the
                     nun who has nothing to give, and not the religious who has the means of
                     distributing alms, that edifies the Church.
                  "ABOVE ALL, SEEK TO BE POOR IN MONEY."—St. Alphonsus Liguori. "The
                     Nun Sanctified;" translated and published for the use of
                        English Nuns and Postulants. 8vo. Dublin, 1848.
               
               When speaking of the habit, shoes, or any other article of apparel, a sister must
                  not say "my habit, my shoes, or my pencil;" she is not permitted to consider
                  herself the owner of any thing, not even of her own person. She must feel that she
                  belongs, soul and body, to the service of the community; her will pertains to the
                  Father Superior. The mistress of novices once told me that my body was not my own,
                  but belonged longed to the community.
                  The community is called "our mother;" and every sister is bound to love and
                  cherish it as a daughter.
               Some of the sisters have constant hemorrhages from the lungs, and such are
                  required to carry, wrapped in a pocket-handkerchief, a small square bottle, which
                  is kept corked. This is used by all who raise blood even occasionally; for, should
                  they use their handkerchiefs to wipe the blood from their mouths, it would be an
                  infraction of the vow of poverty, as it would tend to wear them out, and also
                  cause a waste of soap and a loss of time in washing them. The handkerchiefs used
                  by the vow-sisters in the community-room are about thirty inches square; they are
                  of fine linen, imported from France in the piece, and are cut so as to form a
                  square according to the width of the piece. The novices, however, use cotton
                  handkerchiefs.
               The vow of poverty prohibits a sister from using any thing to gratify the senses,
                  such as perfume; or to wear any ornament as such, or to partake of any luxuries,
                  such as cake, preserves, custard, or whatever pleases the palate. Should any such
                  article be offered, it must be refused. It is not allowable to desire
                  to eat any thing but the most common food, and that only when given. A sister
                  breaks her vow of poverty when she gets hungry and desires to eat between meals.
                  At the table she must eat what is set before her or go without eating, and she is
                  taught to take food only with a view to strengthen the body for the performance of
                  duties, and to take no pleasure in it.
               She may not accept the most trifling present from any one without permission of
                  the Superior or the mistress of novices, nor can she give away any object without
                  first obtaining permission. It is not allowed her to receive from a boarder even a
                  flower, though it be presented by a pupil under her own tuition.
               It is a mortal sin for a sister to use perfume, and the use of looking-glasses is
                  entirely prohibited; not even the boarders are permitted to use them. They would
                  sometimes keep a small piece concealed, and I have known some of them to bury
                  their perfume-bottles in the play-ground, because it was a forbidden article.
               One day, as I passed a boarder who had been arranging her hair, she said to me, in
                  a playful manner, "Sister, what is this on my hair?" I stooped my head, and,
                  smelling the perfume, smiled, but said nothing. An old sister, coming along at the
                  time, observed the movement, and said, lifting up her hands in holy horror, "Why,
                  sister, why did you not practice mortification?" It will be remembered that to
                  touch or notice any person, even a boarder, in the way of a pleasing attention, or
                  for any other purpose than the performance of the "duties" assigned, is a mortal
                  sin. The person of a sister is considered sacred and holy, and this impression is
                  to be made and kept in the minds of the boarders.
               A few words in relation to our conduct toward the boarders of the academy may not
                  be out of place here.
               As a young novice, looking so sanctimonious, so sad and dejected, I was often
                  regarded by the mischievous girls of the academy with doubt and incredulity as to
                  my fitness for the life of a convent, and frequently they would say to me,
                  "Sister, what did you come here for?
                  Sister, you ought to be in the world; you can not be happy here; you will
                  certainly die if you stay here; I believe you are dying with the consumption; you
                  look like a saint, sister, but you are too young to be here; this is not the place
                  for you," etc. Yet, though such kindly-meant remarks might be made to me by the
                  boarders, it was never safe to communicate with them or to corroborate their
                  surmises, lest it should reach the ear of the Superior, and bring upon me the
                  infliction of penances as well as more strict confinement and more onerous
                  "duties." Had I given to any one of them a hint of dissatisfaction, she might have
                  repeated it in another class-room, or at least have allowed some allusion to
                  escape, upon which I would have been immediately arraigned. The necessity of such
                  strict surveillance over those sisters who have duties in the academy will at once
                  appear. Any such intimation of dissatisfied feeling might alarm some boarder who
                  was seriously thinking of entering the community; hence none but those whose
                  exemplary conduct recommended them to the officers as reliable in this particular
                  were permitted to teach the boarders.
               To stop in the corridor for the purpose of looking at or smelling a flower, whose
                  fresh bloom and delicate odor might occasionally tempt to a momentary indulgence
                  of innocent enjoyment—this would be a loss of time, and thus would amount to a
                  breach of the vow of poverty. Not an instant must be wasted in any sort of
                  pleasurable occupation. Secular music is never allowed in the community. It is
                     work, or worship—"duties" of some kind or other, and
                  that continuallyally. When lying upon the bed at night, every
                  wakeful moment must be employed in meditations on the subject assigned before
                  retiring, in the recitation of prayers, or in "making aspirations," that is,
                  uttering some ejaculatory expression, such as "Sweet Jesus! Sweet Mother! Holy St.
                  Joseph, pray for me! My blessed Mother! Holy Virgin! Mary my Mother!" etc.
               Even during sickness, a sister is not permitted to have or to desire any article,
                  such as ice, that might be grateful to the taste, and add to her comfort while the
                  fever is upon her. Of this I will relate a single instance. It is that of the sick
                  sister in the infirmary, by whose appearance I had been particularly struck during
                  my postulancy, and who had subsequently been sent away from the institution. I now
                  saw her again. She had been to Baltimore for the amputation of her, that she might
                  survive the operation. She had now returned, the arm having been taken off below
                  the elbow. I saw her in the infirmary, where I was also, ill. After my recovery I
                  was put there on duty. Among others I attended her, dressing her arm, changing her
                  clothes, and administering her medicine.
               She was placed in a small room adjoining the main apartment, and was the only
                  patient there, although the infirmary was not at that time full. It was the room
                  that I have elsewhere mentioned as used for the purpose of a "dead room," bodies
                  being laid out there previous to the funeral service in the chapel and the
                  interment. At this period I slept in the infirmary. One night I was awoke by a
                  furious storm that moaned ed and
                  whistled round the building. Hearing steps in the passage near the infirmary door,
                  I rose, and went to ascertain the cause. There is no door between the infirmary
                  and the small room before alluded to, but the doors of both rooms open upon one
                  passage, as before related. I saw a figure in white leaning against the wall. It
                  was the poor sister, who had come out into the passage. She appeared exceedingly
                  agitated and alarmed, and entreated me to accompany her to her room, stating that
                  she had been so startled by extraordinary sounds that she should certainly die
                  with terror. Supposing that the storm had thus frightened her, I went and remained
                  with her till it was over; but she could not be pacified. She afterward declared
                  that these noises had been heard before the storm, and were still repeated
                  nightly; and as evening approached, she seemed in an agony of distress, beseeching
                  me to procure a light for her. The room was, I think, the same with that in which
                  had died the religieuse from whose coffin the
                  sound of rapping appeared to proceed.
               In assisting one day to change her clothes, I was surprised to observe a large
                  swelling on her right side. I asked her the cause of it. She told me that she had
                  been in the institution about eight months, when she was sent from the refectory
                  one evening for some plates. She was bringing an armful from the kitchen, and was
                  crossing the porch, covered at that time with ice and snow, when she stumbled and
                  fell, her side striking across a tub which stood in her way, and thus the swelling
                  had been occasioned. She had been sent to the infirmary, but nothing was done for
                  her side— no application whatever having been made to it. Her health had been bad
                  ever since, and she had been repeatedly sent to the infirmary. I touched the lump,
                  and it appeared to me like a projecting portion of bone. I continued to attend her
                  for some weeks, and about a fortnight after I had left the infirmary she died. She
                  was not allowed a light at night, though more than once she pleaded for it. She
                  asked for ice to put in the water she drank, and was refused. I made the same
                  request in her behalf, but could not obtain it. She solicited some little
                  delicacies, such as a lemon and an apple, but they were denied her. No sick person
                  is permitted to ask for any thing; I never dared do so when ill. The very things
                  desired were generally the last to be granted.
               This sister had a cough, and was, as I supposed, in the consumption. Her arm was
                  never entirely healed. She was a native of Switzerland, and spoke broken English.
                  She told me she had come to this country with her sister and her sister's husband
                  from France. They placed her at St. Joseph's, and left her there; she had never
                  seen or heard from them since. I inferred at the time that, in all probability,
                  she had been wealthy, or had been brought there for some wrong motive, instead of
                  being left at the Mother House in Paris; and she often expressed the wish that she
                  had been so left, instead of being brought to this country. Some mystery was
                  connected with her case. I frequently saw her weeping; she would refuse medicine,
                  and say she did not wish to live. I helped to lay her body in the coffin; I
                  watched by the side of it, and assisted two other novices in carrying it to the
                  chapel door and placing it upon the
                  bier. Under the weight of the burden in so doing, I was almost bent to the ground,
                  and thought I should have fainted with the effort. This sister's name was
                  Neomesia; her age I should judge to have been about twenty to twenty-three
                  years.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               VOWS OF CHASTITY AND OBEDIENCE.
               THE other two vows, or obligations of CHASTITY and OBEDIENCE, when fully explained
                  in their relations with the peculiar ideas inculcated by the priests concerning
                  their breach and observance, will doubtless prove novel and startling to the
                  unsophisticated denizens of "the world" without, to whom Jesuitical casuistry and
                  doctrine are unknown pursuits of study. These vows will be treated in
                  connection.
               A sister or religieuse breaks the vow of
                  chastity by looking a man or woman, and even a "sister," in the face, unless
                     required by duty. *
                  She must not
                     
                     *St. Alphonsus Liguori, one of the most eminent saints of the Roman Catholic
                        Church in modern times, in his work entitled "The Nun Sanctified," thus
                        dilates on the "sanctification of the eyes:"
                     "A deliberate glance at a person of a different sex often enkindles an
                        infernal spark which consumes the soul. The first dart which wounds and
                        frequently robs chaste souls of life finds admission through the eyes. St.
                        Bernard, after being a novice for a year, could not tell whether his cell
                        was vaulted. In consequence of never raising his eyes from the ground, he
                        never knew that there were but three windows in the church of the monastery
                        in which he spent his novitiate. The saints were particularly cautious not
                        to look at persons of a different sex. St. Hugh, bishop, when compelled to
                        speak with women, never looked at them in the face. St. Clare would never
                        fix her eyes on the face of a man; she was greatly afflicted because, when
                        raising her eyes at the elevation to see the consecrated Host, she once
                        involuntarily saw the countenance of the priest. St. Lewis Gonzaga never
                        looked his own mother in the face. It is related of St. Arsenius that a
                        noble lady went to visit him in the desert to beg of him to recommend her to
                        God. When the saint perceived that his visitor was a woman, he turned away
                        from her. She then said to him, 'Arsenius, since you will neither see nor
                        hear me, at least remember me in your prayers.' 'No,' replied the saint,
                        'but I will beg of God to make me forget you, and never more to think of
                        you.'
                     "From these examples," proceeds the saint, "may be seen the folly and
                        temerity of some religious, who, though they have not the sanctity of a St.
                        Clare, still gaze around from the terrace, in the parlor, and in the church,
                        upon every object that presents itself, even on persons of a different sex;
                        and notwithstanding their unguarded looks, they expect to be free from
                        temptations and from the danger of sin. For having once looked deliberately
                        at a woman who was gathering ears of corn, the Abbot Pastor was tormented
                        for forty years by temptations against chastity. St. Gregory
                        states that the temptation, to conquer which St. Benedict rolled himself in
                        thorns, arose from one incautious glance at a female. St. Jerome, though
                        living in a cave at Bethlehem in continual prayer and macerations of the
                        flesh, was terribly molested by the remembrance of ladies whom he had long
                        before seen in Rome. Why should not similar molestations be the lot of the
                        religious who willfully and without reserve fixes her eyes on persons of a
                        different sex? Father Manareo, when taking leave of St. Ignatius for a
                        distant place, looked steadfastly in his face; for this look he was
                        corrected by the saint. From the conduct of St. Ignatius on this occasion,
                        we learn that it was not becoming in religious to fix their eyes on the
                        countenance of a person even of the same sex, particularly if the person is
                        young. But I do not see how looks at a young person of a different sex can
                        be excused from the guilt of a venial fault, or even from mortal sin, when
                        there is proximate danger of criminal consent.
                     "Except in looking at such objects (sacred images, etc.), a religious should
                        in general keep the eyes cast down, and particularly in places where they
                        may fall upon dangerous objects. In conversing with men, she should never
                        roll the eyes about to look at them, and much less to look at them a second
                        time.
                     "St. Francis of Assisium once said to his companion that he was going out to
                        preach. After walking through the town with his eyes fixed on the ground, he
                        returned to the convent. His companion asked him when he would preach the
                        sermon. 'We have,' replied the saint, 'by the modesty of our looks, given an
                        excellent instruction to all who saw us.' It is related of St. Lewis Gonzaga
                        that, when he walked through Rome, the students would stand in the streets
                        to observe and admire his great modesty."
                     How unlike the real quality, we may add, is this sham modesty that says,
                        Come and see how modest we are!
                     
                     "To be faithful to her spouse," says St. Basil, "a virgin must be immaculate
                        in her tongue by the delicacy of her language, and by abstinence as
                           much as possible from conversations with men; she must be
                        immaculate in the ears by shunning, like death itself, all worldly
                        discourses; immaculate in her eyes by the modesty of her looks, always
                        restrained so as never to fix them on the face of a man," etc.—St.
                           Basil, de Vera Virg.
                     
                     Injunctions of this character were frequently repeated to us by the priests
                        and mistress of novices for our instruction.
                   raise her eyes to
                  a sister, nor when speaking to or addressed by the Father Superior, her confessor,
                  or any other priest. She must not suffer her thoughts to dwell upon any individual
                  of the other sex. She must not touch a sister's hand, nor her habit, nor allow
                  herself to be touched by another. Persons "in the world" she must neither look at
                  nor touch, nor may she permit them to touch her hand or her habit. If allowed to
                  see a father or a brother, she must not take his hand. Sisters may not see one
                  another with their heads uncovered. A religieuse
                  must renounce all curiosity, never look around her, nor through a window, nor
                  toward a door when it is opened, to see who enters. She must walk through the
                  cloisters and corridors with downcast eyes, and hands folded in her sleeves in
                  front of her breast, passing and repassing the sisters without a word or a sign of
                  recognition.
               Should a sister be seen conversing with a boarder, she would be reported to the
                  Superior, severely reprimanded manded,
                  and assigned a penance. Often have I veiled, by a powerful effort, my unhappiness
                  from the boarders, but they could not help observing and marking at times the
                  paleness of my countenance, which bore traces of the agony that shook at times my
                  very soul. Yet I durst not appear otherwise than calm and collected, nor say one
                  word about the cause of my unhappiness, nor even raise my eyes, while walking
                  through the academy.
               Sometimes, indeed, I would venture to answer the voice of some gentle girl, who
                  would speak to me in passing, and whose sunny smile would cheer my sad and lonely
                  heart, but from the clasp of whose hand I would be forced to recoil as from a
                  serpent's touch. I was narrowly watched, and frequently reported as guilty of
                  "impropriety," and many a reprimand have I received for speaking on such an
                  occasion, or for suffering my hand to be taken, or my waist encircled by the arm
                  of a pupil, an offense which would be reported by spies of the community, who are
                  ever on the alert. Indeed, the rule requires that any such transgression be avowed
                  in confession, and that penance be solicited in expiation of it.
               But in regard to the observance of these and all other rules, it must be borne in
                  mind that, should the Superior at any time command the contrary, the sister must
                  OBEY. Should a priest, and particularly a priest of the Order of St. Lazare, take
                  her hand, with whatever intention, she may not withdraw it. The vow
                     of OBEDIENCE here has supremacy over the vow of chastity.
               
               Should her thoughts go out into the world, should memory call up a friend of the
                  other sex, should the mind overleap prescribed limits, especially with reference
                  to a priest, she must make known that thought at the confessional. Yet if the
                  Superior, her confessor, or any other Lazarist, should direct her thoughts to such
                  topics, she would be commendable in so doing, for she would prove her
                  obedience.
               In the books of the "Conferences," so called, which are occasionally read to the
                  community, particular directions are given by the founder concerning the vows,
                  rules, and regulations of the sisterhood. These books are kept locked in a
                  mahogany box, and are only taken out to be read to the community during annual
                  retreat. When reading these "Conferences," as translated from the French original,
                  I have frequently been made to blush at what I was reading. In one of these books
                  the sisters are told not to fall in love with a priest; but should they do so, to
                  tell him of it, and obtain his advice. Should a sister on a mission chance to
                  entertain such feelings toward a priest, she is instructed at once to inform the
                  Superior, and ask for a change of place. Sometimes this request is granted.
               And here I would solicit the earnest and candid attention of the reader to the
                  infamous craft exercised in these regulations. A young girl, thoughtlessly
                  betrayed into an infraction of the rules, such as that just mentioned, discloses
                  her error as required. The priest thus informed can either take advantage of her
                  confession or not, as he may feel inclined, or as his judgment of the character of
                  the sister may determine. Sometimes policy will induce him to express a holy
                  horror at the offense, with a view to the exalting of his own superior sanctity, and this especially if
                  he should entertain an aversion for the penitent, or should he deem her an
                  unsuitable subject for his purposes. On the other hand, should his own evil heart
                  suggest to him the moral destruction of this sister, how great the advantage he
                  possesses for its accomplishment, in view of this doctrine of passive and
                  meritorious obedience.
               In a word, the sisters are taught that their vow of OBEDIENCE is supreme; that the
                  expressed will of the Superior must be regarded as the voice of God, and
                     that in case the vow of chastity be violated by those exercising
                     authority over them, no sin can be imputed to themselves, because they are
                     doing right by maintaining inviolate the vow of OBEDIENCE.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *If the testimony of personal observation on this subject needs to be
                     confirmed, it will only be requisite to quote a few words from the highest
                     authorities. "The principal and most efficacious means of practicing the
                     obedience due to superiors," says St. Alphonsus Liguori, "and of rendering
                     it meritorious before God, is to consider that, in obeying them, we obey God
                     himself, and that by despising their commands we despise the authority of
                     our divine Master, who has said of superiors, 'He that heareth you, heareth
                     me.' When, then, a religious receives a precept from her prelate, superior,
                     or confessor, she should immediately execute it, not only to please men, but
                     principally to please God, whose will is made known to her by their
                     commands. In obeying their directions, she is more certain of doing the will
                     of God than if an angel came down from heaven to manifest his will to
                        her.
                  
                  "It may be added that there is more certainty of doing the will of God by
                     obedience to superiors, than by obedience to Jesus Christ,
                     should he appear in person and give his commands. Because, should Jesus
                     Christ appear to a religious, she would not be certain whether it was he
                     that spoke or an evil spirit, who, under the appearance of the Redeemer,
                     wished to deceive her. In a word, the only way by which a religious can
                     become a saint, and be saved, is TO OBSERVE HER RULE; FOR HER THERE IS NO
                     OTHER WAY THAT LEADS TO SALVATION!"
                  Awful blasphemy! Yet Jesus said, "I am the way; no man cometh to the Father
                     but by me."
                  "The fourth and last degree of perfect obedience," observes this saint
                     elsewhere, "is to obey with simplicity St. Mary Magdalene de Pazzi says that
                     'perfect obedience requires a soul without a will, and a will
                        without an intellect.' To regard as good whatever
                     superiors command is the blind obedience so much praised by the
                     saints, and is the duty of every religious. To try the obedience of their
                     subjects, superiors sometimes impose commands that are inexpedient,
                        and even absurd. St. Francis commanded his disciples to
                           plant cabbages with their roots uppermost. He obliged Brother
                     Matthew to continue turning round till he fell to the ground."
                  Copious directions are given to nuns by St. Alphonsus as to the necessity of
                     blindly following the confessor. "Obey him, then," he says, "not as man, but
                     as God, and you shall never err. In the beginning of his
                     conversion, St. Ignatius of Loyola was so violently assailed by scruples,
                     and so encumbered with darkness, that he found no peace. But because he had
                     true faith in the word of God (he that heareth you heareth me),
                     he said, with great confidence, 'Lord, show me the way in which I ought to
                     walk, and, though you should give me a dog for my guide, I will faithfully
                     follow him.'"
                  But lest it be supposed that any exercise of judgment be allowed the nun as
                     to what is divine guidance and what is not, St. Alphonsus takes care to add:
                     "To nuns who begin to censure the decisions of their confessors, we ought to
                     say what the learned Monsignior Sperelli wrote to a religious who had
                     accused him of heresy because he had said that the sins which she had
                     confessed were not sins. 'Tell me, said the learned bishop to her, 'in what
                     university have you studied theology, that you know better than your
                     confessor how to decide on sin? Ah! go to spin, and do not give ear to such
                     follies.'"
                  Such are the perils of a loose morality—should we not rather say of a gross
                     immorality?—to which a young girl is exposed, in our own Christian land, who
                     gives herself to the guidance of corrupt and corrupting priests. The voice
                     of conscience, that monitor of God's own appointment in every human bosom,
                     is silenced by the vile utterance of a sinful man. The "more sure word of
                     prophecy," which God has put into our hands as all-sufficient for doctrine,
                     for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man
                     of God might be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto every good work, is laid
                     aside for the authority of the confessional and the lying wonders of
                     tradition.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               MORALS AT ST. JOSEPH'S.
               AS the result of these pernicious and utterly demoralizing doctrines, a lamentable
                  state of things, I grieve to say, existed among a portion of the community at St.
                  Joseph's. It was some time—so little suspicion of the truth was entertained—before
                  I understood and appreciated the symptoms of the evil that raged around me. When,
                  at length, the light dawned upon my mind, it was accompanied by a shock as of
                  electricity, that paralyzed me for the moment. I almost doubted the evidence of my
                  senses; but with the reaction came the strong resolution to leave at all hazards
                  the precincts of such an establishment; a resolution only hastened in its
                  accomplishment by subsequent events.
               And here let me add—for I would not be so misunderstood—that I have no intention
                  to include the whole sisterhood in one sweeping charge of immorality. Far from it.
                  Many are unquestionably pure in their feelings and sincere in their desires to
                  serve God, however mistaken and ill founded the views which they have learned to
                  entertain. Many would be glad to be freed from their bonds, and, like a liberated
                  bird, sing rejoicingly at their release; but others are infatuated with their lot,
                  and no inducement could be offered that would tempt them to leave it.
               Infractions of moral duty and departures from rectitude are the legitimate
                  consequences of the system from which they spring, and whatever errors may be
                  committed by the sisters are justly chargeable to the reverend guides and
                  directors who inculcate such mischievous tenets.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *That the Church of Rome knows well the danger rising from the confessional,
                     and the law of blind obedience, to priest and penitent both, is clear from
                     her instructions on the subject addressed to confessors. Thus Dens's work on
                     Moral Theology, the text-book at Maynooth and at other Roman Catholic
                     seminaries, has a clause on just causes for permitting feelings of a sensual
                     nature. And here it is distinctly stated that just causes of this sort are
                     the hearing of confessions; the reading of cases of conscience drawn up for
                     a confessor; necessary or useful attendance on an invalid. "The effect of a
                     just cause is such," he proceeds to say, "that any thing from which such
                     sentiments arise may be not only lawfully begun, but also lawfully
                     continued; and so the confessor, receiving those sentiments from the hearing
                     of confessions, ought not, on that account, to abstain from hearing them,
                     but has a just cause for persevering; provided, however, that they always
                     displease him, and there arise not therefrom the proximate danger of
                     consent." And the theologian proceeds to mention cases in which confessors,
                     in the performance of their office, were accustomed to fall into sin as
                     often as two and three times in a month; adding, that it is the duty of the
                     confessor, in such a case, notwithstanding, to persevere in the discharge of
                     his calling! See Dens, tom, i., p. 299, 300, Coyne's Dublin
                     edition, 1832.
                  But more than this: St. Thomas Aquinas, "the Angelic Doctor," states as a
                     thesis, that "a 'religious,' violating the three primary articles of his
                     rule, viz., poverty, chastity, and obedience, sins mortally."
                     This thesis, however, is not laid down to be maintained, but to be
                     disproved, and St. Thomas proceeds so to do:
                  "The state of a 'religious' is a safe state.
                  "But a 'religious' is exposed to many temptations to break his rules, and if
                     to break his rules were mortal sin, then the state of a 'religious' would be
                     dangerous instead of safe.
                  "THEREFORE it is not mortal sin for a 'religious' to transgress
                     his rules!"—St. Thomas Aquinas, Secunda Secundæ, Quæst.
                     clxxxvi., art. 9.
               
               
               The power conferred upon the fathers by the rite of confession affords them great
                  facilities to accomplish their purposes. The highest importance is given to a
                  strict and punctual attendance at the confessional, which may truly be denominated
                  the throne of the Roman Catholic ecclesiastic; for there, armed with the assumed
                  authority of God, in whose stead he officiates on earth to the suppliant slaves
                  prostrate before him, he deals the terrible anathema of the Church to the
                  disobedient and refractory, dispenses his "absolution" to the faithful and
                  submissive, and awards the "penance" to be observed in expiation for sin. Seated
                  at the confessional, he is empowered, by virtue of his self-arrogated position, to
                  propound queries which, from the lips of others, would be deemed flagrant insults.
                  Kneeling there, the young maiden answers questions calculated to eradicate every
                  feeling of modesty, woman's highest charm, and lays bare to the inquisitive search
                  of her "spiritual director" every secret thought, every incipient emotion, every
                  impulse of her being. How easy, then, for an evil-disposed confessor stealthily to
                  infuse into the innocent and trusting heart, taught to consider blind obedience a
                  virtue, thoughts, whose growth, cherished by his daily care, shall soon fill it
                  with a diseased vegetation. If any distrust betray itself—if any hesitation appear
                  to the answering of these artfully-framed inquiries, the objector is readily
                  quieted by an assurance that it is the confessor's duty, for her soul's sake, to
                  propound these queries; that he is the authorized medium of communication between
                  her soul and Heaven; that he occupies the place of the Almighty in reference to
                  her spiritual wants and requirements, and must be so regarded if she wishes to
                  avoid purgatorial fires and secure future felicity. Is it, then, a matter of
                  wonder, that those brought up within the pale of this Church, and whose every
                  thought and feeling from childhood to maturity has been watched and directed by
                  such a "spiritual guide," should yield themselves entirely to his control, and
                  even see no danger in their abject submissiveness, nor evil purpose in his
                  exercise of unlimited power?
               But if "in the world," as it is technically termed, the confessional may be such a
                  source of perilous and demoralizing influence to the youthful mind, and so potent
                  an agency for the subserviency of guilty designs, it may easily be conceived that
                  in a religious community, whose members are secluded from public observation, and
                  given over, bodily and spiritually, to the charge of priests, its control must be
                  more absolute, and more unscrupulously exercised.*
                  Shut up and
                     
                     *This inevitable result is eloquently set forth by the able author of
                        Mornings with the Jesuits at Rome. "In these nunneries,"
                        he says, speaking of the convents of Tuscany, "there are sometimes thirty,
                        sometimes forty, sometimes fifty, and in many even one hundred nuns. And
                        these nunneries have almost always convents near them, more or less large,
                        for those monks who are to be the confessors of those nuns. And living, as
                        these nuns always do, in a state of seclusion and dullness; living, as they
                        do, a life of hopelessness and monotony, without the interests of mothers,
                        for they have no children; without the interests of children, for they have
                        no parents; without the interests of sisters, for they have no brothers;
                        without the interests of wives, for they have no husbands, they are thrown
                        upon their own confessors for society. And the visits of the monks from the
                        adjoining convents break the tedium of their lives; break in and while away
                        their hours of idleness, bring to them the gossip of the neighborhood, and
                        reveal to them the news of the outer world. And the result is, that from the
                        rising to the setting of the sun, the visits of these monkish confessors are
                        the objects looked for in the morning, and remembered in the evening. Now it
                        is only in human nature to suppose that, under such circumstances,
                        attachments may spring up between the younger nuns and the younger monks. It
                        is no unkindness, it is no scandal to say it—it is only what nature seems to
                        dictate. The real unkindness, the real scandal is that the Church of Rome
                        interposes a law, and forbids the consecrating of these attachments by the
                        bonds of holy wedlock."—Rev. Mr. HOBART SEYMOUR, in a Lecture on
                           "Convents or Nunneries," at Bath, Eng., June 7th, 1852.
                   deprived of
                  intercourse or communication, even by letter, with parents, relations, and
                  friends, and taught by the invariable law of human instinct to seek direction and
                  sympathy from other minds, the inmates of these institutions submit implicitly to
                  the guidance of their confessor, and regard his injunctions and admonitions as
                  "oracles divine." To him they resort in every trifling difficulty; to him they go
                  with every petty trouble; and accustomed to view him as a wise arbiter and an
                  infallible monitor, no limit, at least, is placed to their confidence and
                  obedience until they become the pitiable victims of their black-robed and
                  black-hearted betrayers.
               My recollections of my novitiate at St. Joseph's will ever be associated with a
                  feeling of contempt and abhorrence for those men who use their advantage of rank
                  and position to the basest ends, and with deep thankfulness for my own escape from
                  their insidious snares. It was a contemplation of the peril to which I was exposed
                  that first suggested the idea of escape, at any risk, from the institution. I
                  could have borne toil, privation, and bodily maltreatment as the consequences of
                  my own rashness and ill-advised impetuosity, but the future wore too dark and
                  terrible an aspect pect, that I should resign myself with quietness to its
                  horrors. Although the conversations and the acts of individual members of the
                  community, the secret mysteries of the confessional, and other circumstances
                  besides, were ample evidence to my own judgment of the alarming position I
                  occupied, yet, as it may be contended by those interested in concealing the truth
                  that my mental vision was distorted, and that my prejudices were too strong to
                  admit of a calm, dispassionate induction from what I saw and heard, I feel most
                  reluctantly compelled to state an incident concerning which there can be no
                  misconception.
               A priest, who had been engaged in exercising his pastoral functions at St.
                  Joseph's, was about to leave the institution, and, as is customary, the sisters
                  were directed to enter the room where he was stationed, and ask a blessing at his
                  hand previous to his departure. When my turn came, I went in, with downcast eyes
                  and clasped hands, as required, and knelt to receive the expected benediction. But
                  instead of the pressure of his hand upon my head, I felt the impression of a kiss
                  upon my forehead. Startled and confused by a salutation so unexpected and
                  inappropriate, I staggered to my feet, and ejaculated, almost unconsciously, the
                  words, "Oh! Father!" But before I could recover my composure, seizing my wrist
                  with his left hand, and encircling my waist with his right arm, he drew me toward
                  him, and imprinted several kisses on my face before I was able to break from his
                  revolting embrace. Yet I was compelled, from prudential fears of the consequences,
                  to be silent respecting this insulting treatment. What could I do? to whom should
                     I apply for redress and protection?
                  If I had complained to the mistress of novices or to the Mother Superior of the
                  outrage to which I had been subjected, I should have been denounced as a base
                  calumniator of the "holy father," and punished for the offense. There
                  was nothing left but to wait in silence for some other means of redress.
               "I must quit this place!" These words were now continually in my
                  mind. But how? was a question difficult to be answered. I could not communicate
                  with my family through the authorities of the institution. This privilege had been
                  denied me before, and I had suffered on account of my expressed desire to do so.
                  Having experienced the evil results of the failure of this first attempt, I feared
                  to make a second effort, lest worse should follow, and a stricter surveillance be
                  kept over me. I could not procure the transmission of a letter by means of the
                  boarders, even had I been enabled to write one without detection, for all the
                  letters they send home are examined and read. This method of communication had
                  been attempted by others, but the plans were discovered and the offending sisters
                  punished. A secret escape was the sole alternative, and this I resolved, if
                  possible, to accomplish. I was fully aware of the difficulties in the way, and the
                  fearful issue of a failure; but this thought only nerved me for the trial, and led
                  me to use every exertion that secresy and caution could suggest to insure success.
                  Having formed the determination, my first endeavor was to banish all traces of
                  nervousness and anxiety from my features, and compose them into an expression of
                  calmness and resignation, that no mistrust of my intention might be entertained.
                  This effected, I patiently awaited a favorable opportunity to execute my
                  design.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               RELATIONS OF THE LAZARIST PRIESTS TO THE SISTERHOOD.
               IN the books of the "Conferences," to which I have already referred, the founder
                  directs that a priest shall not be permitted to enter the apartments of the
                  community unless accompanied by a sister. The devil, he remarks, is always at
                  work, and even angels have fallen; and yet the novices are accustomed to sleep in
                  cells with curtains instead of doors! Farther, it is forbidden that a sister
                  should see a priest alone in a parlor; there must always be two. Nor is it allowed
                  that she should visit a priest alone; yet she may remain at the confessional for
                  any length of time alone with her confessor—nay, she may see him in his own room
                  in case of indisposition. In fact, the priests do often enter the rooms of the
                  sisters, and remain there for a considerable time; nor is any one permitted to
                  open the door (for the rooms of the vowed sisters have doors) or enter the room
                  during their stay.
               When the Father Superior enters the room of the Lady Superior, should a sister be
                  present at the time, it is her duty to withdraw at once; nor is any one allowed to
                  enter while he remains.
               A sister never enters the room of the Father Superior rior so long as there is
                  another sister in his room. There is one who attends to his door, and informs the
                  applicant whether he be engaged. When a sister is particularly anxious to see him,
                  she writes her name upon a slate, and is sent for at his option.
               Sisters are also advised, in the "Conferences," not to attend persons of their own
                  sex when solicited to do so in certain cases of sickness while on their missions
                  "in the world," lest they might have bad thoughts.
               One day, while on duty in the room of a professed sister, I heard groans
                  proceeding from an apartment nearly opposite, and noticed the infirmarian passing
                  up and down before the room. I was then commanded to close the door opening into
                  the passage, in order to prevent the sound from reaching a neighboring corridor,
                  which led to the building occupied by the community. Having done so, I returned to
                  the duty in which I was engaged.
               After a few minutes I was called by the infirmarian to the medicine-room. She said
                  to me, "Be quick, and pour out ten drops from that vial," pointing to one in the
                  medicine-case. In my agitation and alarm, instead of dropping the liquid, I poured
                  it out with a trembling hand—I knew not how much, perhaps a tea-spoonful. With
                  this I was sent to the sister's room, and administered it as directed. The sister
                  was propped up with pillows, extending from the shoulder downward. She was deadly
                  pale, with dark-circles around the eyes, as I have seen persons appear after
                  convulsions. Her feet were resting against the foot of the bed, as if for support.
                  The infirmarian soon followed me into
                  the room, and I saw no other person there. I retired at once, and resumed my duty
                  with the sick sister in the opposite room. A short time after, I heard a priest's
                  voice in the apartment in question, but did not distinguish the conversation. The
                  groans increased until they became shrieks, at intervals of about ten minutes, and
                  then more frequent, until almost continuous, when they ceased altogether.
               This happened in the course of an afternoon, including a period of about four
                  hours. I left the sister's room opposite about three hours and a half subsequent
                  to my hearing the first groan, and when in the infirmary below could plainly hear
                  the shrieks described.
               I had never seen this sister before, except two or three times within a month
                  previous to this occurrence, when I had noticed her accidentally in the same room
                  as I passed the door. On those occasions she was sitting in a rocking-chair,
                  dressed in a loose wrapper. After this I saw her occasionally, at first in bed,
                  and later in a chair. Shortly after, my duties in the infirmary ceased, having
                  continued only some seven weeks, and I saw no more of her. This took place about
                  three months before I left the institution; after this I visited the infirmary but
                  occasionally, when sent on transient duties.
               Shrinking as I do most painfully from the statement of any thing that may seem to
                  throw a shade upon the perfect sanctity of those retreats, where I myself long
                  imagined the very embodiment of excellence to dwell, the task I have
                  conscientiously undertaken compels me to withhold nothing that shall acquaint my
                  countrymen with the reality of those dangers gers to which their daughters may be
                  exposed within these guarded precincts. It has been my duty to declare, for their
                  warning and determent, some part at least of that which I have seen and heard as a
                  personal witness. Yet I can not bring myself to recount in detail the instances of
                  undue familiarity which have fallen under my own notice, and the evidences of it
                  that have forced themselves upon my own conviction. I hasten to close what it has
                  been necessary to state on this subject.
               When I first visited the institution, before entering the community, I had in my
                  possession a letter which I had been told to deliver at once upon my arrival into
                  the hands of the priest. Accordingly, it being about nine o'clock in the evening,
                  I asked to see him. The sister who was present, raising her hands and eyes to
                  heaven in holy horror, exclaimed, "A priest does not remain here at this hour of
                  night—never!"
               After my entrance into the community, as I was one day walking upon the corridor,
                  I saw a room adjoining the priest's room, through a window which looked out upon
                  the corridor. In that room I saw a bed. And I know that a priest once slept there,
                  for I heard it said that it was too cold for him to come so early in the morning
                  to say first mass. I have also heard priests walking through the institution at
                  night. I am convinced, from these and other considerations, that priests do sleep
                  there.
               I was invited one evening to go with some six or eight vowed sisters to a place
                  called the Grotto. This is a spot surrounded by lattice-work, in the centre of
                  which stands a statue of the Virgin. There are seats around it, and a delicious spring of water gushes
                  forth near by. Soon after we entered, an Italian Lazarist, or priest of the
                  corresponding institution of St. Lazare,*
                   came into our midst and took a seat. The sisters clustered around him,
                  kneeling, and conversing freely with him. Looking up earnestly into his face, they
                  would exclaim, "O father!" with a tone almost of adoration. I know of no words to
                  express the intensity of feeling thus manifested, beaming from every countenance,
                  and exhibited in their actions; fascination does not seem strong enough to convey
                  the idea. Had the Savior himself been present in person before them, they could
                  hardly have shown more reverence and love. Every soul appeared to gaze upon him
                  with its most ardent affection.
               
                  
                  *The "Catholic Almanac" for 1855, in a list of the religious institutions of
                     the archdiocese of Baltimore, illustrates very forcibly and pithily, in the
                     following extracts, the connection between these two establishments. We
                     quote verbatim:
                  "ST. JOSEPH'S SISTERHOOD, Emmettsburg, Md.
                  "This is the Mother-House of the Sisters of Charity in the United
                     States.
                  "Very Rev. F. Burlando, Ecclesiastical Superior.
                  Rev. H. Gandolfo, Chaplain.
                  Sr. M. Etienne Hall, Mother Superior."
                  "CONGREGATION OF THE MISSION, Emmettsburg, Md.
                  "Very Rev. Francis Burlando, C. M.
                  Rev. Hippolytus Gandolfo, C. M."
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               MONTHLY AND ANNUAL RETREAT.
               ON a particular Sunday of every month there is observed at St. Joseph's a "monthly retreat." That day is spent in prayer and meditation, in
                  spiritual reading, in saying the litanies of the Holy Ghost and the blessed
                  Virgin, in "preparation for death," and other religious exercises, terminating
                  with a "repetition of the meditations" made in the course of the day.
               These meditations are divided into three periods. The "repetition" of them
                  consists in kneeling at the centre of the room before the assembled sisterhood,
                  and repeating the thoughts that have occupied the mind during each period given to
                  meditation throughout the day, all of which is rehearsed for the edification of
                  the community.
               Those gifted with a ready flow of language of course make beautiful "repetitions,"
                  as they can easily fabricate them for the occasion; but others not so endowed will
                  naturally blunder through the performance in such a manner as often to excite the
                  risible sensations of their hearers. All alike, however, conclude with the
                  following formula: "I will place my resolutions in the sacred heart of Jesus," or
                  "of Mary;" "I will practice some virtue, and the resolutions I have made for
                  future conduct." Then kissing the floor, the sister returns to her seat. No one is allowed to
                  speak during the whole day, save as called upon in this exercise.
               The "preparation for death," a formulary read aloud to the community, is
                  calculated to produce emotions of intense grief, anxiety, and distress, amounting
                  almost to derangement. I have seen sisters weep and tremble, and have heard them
                  groan as if in the deepest agony of mind. These demonstrations are considered
                  highly commendable, and are particularly encouraged. My own feelings were never
                  thus manifested, for the reason that I felt as though I could welcome death with
                  all its bitterness. It had no fears for me, and especially since my mother's death
                  I have had little desire to live.
               These readings commence as follows: "Let me die, O my God! let me die! Let my body
                  be eaten by worms, in punishment for my pride," etc., etc.
               On the days which are thus occupied by special observances, the regular work and
                  "duties" of the establishment must be dispatched with great speed, to allow time
                  for these unusual engagements; and if not accomplished in due season, they must be
                  finished after night prayers.
               The Lady Superior does not go into this retreat. It is made by the novices in the
                  novitiate-room, and by the professed in the community-room. No one can leave the
                  room on these occasions for any purpose whatsoever.
               The monthly exercises which I have here described, attended as they are with such
                  evidences of great depression of spirits, and exhausting as they do the physical
                  ical energies, are not the only seasons when these effects are apparent. In the
                     daily meditation similar scenes not unfrequently occur. Upon one
                  occasion, during meditation in the chapel, a sister, overcome by her feelings,
                  fell to the floor, and, striking against a settee, cut her face in a shocking
                  manner, so that she was at once taken to the infirmary. Fainting and falling to
                  the floor are no uncommon events during the meditation-hour. When a fast-day
                  happens upon the day of the monthly retreat, the exercises prove especially
                  exhausting.
               The "ANNUAL RETREAT" is a period lasting from eight to ten days, and spent in
                  silent prayer and meditation in the chapel, during which time not a word is
                  spoken. Several priests are in constant attendance to hear confessions.
               The "meditations" during this retreat are very exciting. Frequently will the
                  sisters break forth into screams; often, faint and worn out with prayer, vigils,
                  and penances, many of them become ill, and are sent to the infirmary. One of these
                  meditations, the subject of which was "a sister in hell," seemed sufficient of
                  itself to cause insanity. It was awful in the extreme. It represented a sister who
                  had broken her holy rules and vows, as asked by the Lord after death for her
                  habit, when she would scream and say, "Give me back my holy habit!" but would be
                  thrown into hell to howl and rave with the devils.
               During this annual retreat the Superior gives "conferences" in the chapel,
                  consisting of discourses or lectures on such topics as the three vows—Poverty,
                  Chastity, and Obedience; and the three virtues which are to be practiced in connection with
                  these—Humility, Charity, and Simplicity.
               A general confession is made in the course of this annual retreat.
                  On this occasion the sisters have the choice of their confessors, for there are
                  several Lazarist priests who are invited to the institution for that purpose.
                  Sometimes the sisters will remain at the confessional for two hours, and leave it
                  weeping. I have seen them enter the confessional much agitated; often they will
                  lean against the wall for support.
               During one of these retreats, which happened while I was in the institution, I
                  was, of course, obliged to resort with the rest to confession. I went into a
                  little chapel on one side of the "sanctuary," entered the confessional, and knelt
                  before the lattice-work. The priest drew the curtain that covered it on the
                  opposite side; then, walking to the window, raised the curtain, so that the light
                  shone directly in my face; and seating himself at the confessional, with his head
                  resting on his hand, and close to the bars, said, "Sister, draw aside your veil,
                  that I may see whether your countenance betokens sorrow for your sins." I complied
                  reluctantly, and commenced the Confiteor—"I confess," etc.
               When I had repeated this, he asked me how old I was; how long I had been in the
                  institution; why I entered it; if I was in love with any one when I entered; if I
                  loved any one then, and whether it was a person in the world, or one consecrated
                  to God. Of course I was unprepared for questions of this nature, and, instead of
                  answering them, said, "Father, I am ready for confession." He then remarked, "When
                  I entered the community (that of St. Lazare), I thought I had done much for God,
                  but now I find that I have done nothing." He proceeded to counsel me to imitate
                  the example of St. Theresa. "You must persevere," he added, "in the service of
                  God; it is a blessed thing for a young person early to devote herself to the
                  service of God, and enter such an institution." He bade me open my heart to him,
                  and tell him every thought and feeling. I should state that this priest was about
                  twenty-three or four years of age.
               This conversation continued for a length of time, and I became exceedingly
                  fatigued in my kneeling posture. I mentioned this to the priest, begging that he
                  would defer my confession till some other time. Had I not done so, I know not how
                  long he would have kept me in the confessional. When I had promised him to come
                  again on the following morning, he permitted me to leave, telling me that in the
                  mean time I must think of him and pray for him. I saw this priest but once again
                  as he was passing through the institution. One evening, shortly after this
                  incident, I met a "vowed sister" walking upon the corridor. She inquired of me,
                  "Have you been to confession? and to whom?" I told her; and she then asked, "Did
                  he put many questions to you?" I replied that he did. The next day I observed that
                  she went to confession to this priest, and no doubt she was highly pleased, for
                  she remained in the confessional three hours. Probably she wished to go to a
                  person who would address to her such questions as she would take satisfaction in
                  answering. This sister was a French person, and one whom I had often noticed in
                  the corridor conversing with the
                  priests; she also frequently visited their apartment. I have many times seen her
                  and others walking in the passage on the ground floor, as the priests passed to
                  and from their room. Repeatedly have I observed the vowed sisters with the
                  priests, walking up and down this passage, talking and laughing with them, and
                  retiring with them to their room. Sometimes, when the door chanced to open, I have
                  seen one of them in a kneeling posture before the priest, and talking with
                  him.
               Sometimes one or two priests and several sisters take supper together in the
                  community-room, and I have overheard them talking and laughing in a very loud
                  tone. On one occasion I was asked by a professed sister to visit with her the
                  house for the Lazarists in Emmettsburg, but I was not permitted to go near that
                  place.
               The sisters frequently went to St. Lazare. This building belongs to the
                  institution, and is about a mile distant. During vacation several of the sisters
                  spend their time there. They have a very beautiful chapel in the house, where they
                  perform their devotions. Novices are not permitted to visit here, but the priests
                  are allowed this privilege. I visited the place three times in my occasional
                  carriage-drives, and once breakfasted there. I have never heard that any other
                  novice did so.
               In addition to the lectures given by the Superior in the chapel, conferences are
                  also read at these annual retreats by a sister who stands at a table.
                  In the retreat which I attended about three months before my escape, the Father
                  Superior, during one of these conferences ferences, took occasion to expatiate on
                  the troubles that threatened the Church, remarking that there were enemies who
                  were endeavoring to destroy its servants; that the Pope was fearful that the
                  avowed opponents of the Church were about to make a determined effort to break
                  down its power and destroy its institutions. He appeared extremely solicitous
                  about this danger, and requested the prayers of the sisters that the Church might
                  be protected from these anticipated efforts. I did not then comprehend his
                  meaning, for he seemed to refer to a special movement of which I knew nothing;
                  but, since my departure from St. Joseph's, I have concluded that he made allusion
                  to the American movement, which I have learned was at that time rapidly growing
                  and gaining strength throughout our country. Nor do I imagine that any other
                  sister understood the allusion, as we were never permitted to see a newspaper,
                  except occasionally one lying on the Lady Superior's table, which it was not
                  allowed to read or touch. I have, however, seen the Lady Superior attentively
                  reading newspapers.
               At the close of the annual retreat, the sisters are invited to come to the Lady
                  Superior's room, where she presents them each with a picture; to some she gives
                  more than one, and sometimes a "Litany" in French or English. From the Lady
                  Superior's room they repair to the Father Superior, before whom they kneel, and
                  obtain his blessing. He questions them as to the manner in which they have passed
                  the retreat, their feelings, etc., and encourages them to keep more strictly their
                  holy vows and rules. Sometimes, too, he presents some of them with a picture, a
                  rosary, a medal, or other small gift.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               ANOTHER VICTIM.
               IT was very shortly after the annual retreat, the nature of which I have now
                  explained, that a letter was one day received by the Mother Superior from a young
                  lady, whose parents resided in Virginia. As she had been a particular acquaintance
                  of mine, I was summoned to the Superior's presence, and the letter was handed to
                  me. It had already been opened and read, doubtless by the Superior, whose practice
                  it was to do so whenever a letter was sent to any member of the institution. After
                  reading the contents, which were addressed to me, inquiring how I liked the life
                  of the sisterhood; if I was happy; what were the duties; whether I thought the
                  writer competent to perform them; and expressing a desire to enter a religious
                  house, the Superior put certain questions to me respecting this young lady. She
                  asked me if her father and mother were living, how many children they had, if they
                  were wealthy, if she was accomplished and pretty, etc. These interrogatories being
                  answered to her satisfaction, she directed me to sit down and write in reply,
                  "Come and see." "Tell her," she added, "that I invite her to visit the
                  institution; say that you are happy and contented;" in short, she dictated a
                  letter which I wrote, and handed to her on the spot.
               Three or four weeks elapsed, and I was again sent for to come to the Superior's
                  room. I observed on entering that there was a lady present; but, not being allowed
                  to raise my eyes to her countenance, could not distinguish her particularly. The
                  Superior said to me as I advanced, "Sister, do you know this young lady?" I raised
                  my eyes, and behold it was my friend. Very coldly and calmly I replied, "Yes,
                  mother." Upon this my friend sprang toward me with outstretched arms. I drew back,
                  my hands clasped upon my breast, according to the rules. The Superior meantime
                  closely watching me, I did not allow my friend to touch me, but looked at her
                  calmly, as though it were no surprise or delight for me to behold her again. In
                  all this concealment and repression of feeling we were trained; and they who best
                  perform their part, and exhibit least emotion, are most highly commended, while
                  such as are unable to govern the natural outbursts of affection are required to do
                  penance.
               My friend, evidently grieved and wounded at this cold reception, after a short
                  pause, asked me how I liked the religious life, and whether I was happy. The
                  Superior, too, put similar questions; to all of which I dared make no other reply
                  than that I was delighted with the mode of life; that the duties were easy, and
                  such as she could readily perform; and that I was perfectly happy. After this the
                  Superior told me to leave, and I accordingly retired to my duties.
               The next day, at recreation-hour, I was permitted to go and see my friend,
                  accompanied by an elder sister, and I then learned the state of her mind. She was
                  in raptures with the place; and after some conversation versation with her, I was sent for by the Superior
                  to report these expressions of her feelings. After supper I again saw her, and we
                  had another conversation in company with an elder sister; and, as I had been
                  instructed, I endeavored to increase her interest in the institution.
               On the following day she went into a "religious retreat." Two days subsequent,
                  while on my way with the community to chapel, in my place in the
                     rank, or order of procession, I was sent for by the Lady Superior.
                  Somewhat alarmed, I hurried to her room, and was ordered to have the dinner of the
                  young lady taken to her apartment. I was told to give directions for a "nice
                  dinner," as, for some reason which I did not learn, the young lady had not dined.
                  I waited on her at table, and, though she pressed me to partake, I durst not do
                  so, as it is against the rules to eat with a person of "the world." There was,
                  besides, an officer sitting in the apartment adjoining, with the door partly open:
                  this door had a glass sash, and the officer was doubtless placed there for the
                  purpose of watching me. The dinner was not such as we ordinarily partook of, but
                  of a tempting character, such as we never saw in the refectory.
               Dinner over, I reported to the Superior what had been said by my friend at the
                  table; among other remarks, that she "had come prepared to enter the community,"
                  which seemed greatly to gratify the Superior; and that "the only tie that now
                  bound her to the world was her affection for her parents, and particularly for her
                  father; but this difficulty she intended to settle by ascertaining from the priest
                  her true vocation." This news greatly pleased the Lady Superior; and it was
                  arranged that my friend should visit the priest—the Father Superior—that same
                  afternoon. I was appointed to accompany her to the presence of the father, who was
                  duly informed of this conversation; and when she made her appearance in his room,
                  he seemed delighted to see her. He took her hand as I passed, and said, pointing
                  to me, "You see we never shake hands with a sister."
               I staid a few moments in the room, until, at a signal from the priest, I left,
                  having first obtained his blessing. I went to the novitiate, and there watched the
                  door leading to the priest's room to see my friend come out. I did so, not by
                  order from the Superior, but from my own anxiety to know whether, after this
                  interview, she would still remain determined to enter the house, and with but a
                  faint hope that she might not be prevailed upon to do so. From that interview,
                  however, she went directly to her own room. During recreation after supper, I was
                  sent to visit her with an elder sister, being directed to conduct her over the
                  beautiful grounds of the Superior to a fine grove of trees, in the midst of which
                  there is a mound covered with shrubbery. Upon this mound stands a very large
                  cross, surrounded by symbols of the passion—the serpent, the ladder, the hammer,
                  the sponge, the spear, the crown of thorns, the scourge, etc. This last was
                  painted to represent blood upon it. At the foot of the cross there was a statue of
                  the Virgin Mary, upon which the sisters, when permitted to walk over the grounds,
                  sometimes put wreaths of flowers, and before which they make their orisons. The
                  stillness and seclusion of the spot,
                  the perfume of flowers, the balmy atmosphere, the solemn and holy calm, gave to
                  this place the charm of an earthly paradise. It is called "Our Lady of the
                  Fields;" and hither the priests frequently resort to sit in quiet, decorating the
                  statue, or employing themselves as they please.
               On the next evening I was again called to the Lady Superior's room. My friend was
                  there, clothed in a black dress, with the officers of the institution standing
                  around her. The Superior commanded me to lead her to the novitiate and introduce
                  her to the mistress of novices, whom she had not yet seen. It is usually the duty
                  of an officer to take a postulant into the novitiate, but an exception was made in
                  this instance. My friend was much agitated. I left her with the mistress of
                  novices, to whom I communicated my errand.
               Her first duties were in the refectory. Often have I seen her carrying plates and
                  other crockery on a large "round"—a circular piece of wood with a handle—to and
                  from the basement-room below. Once I saw her crying with the great exertion
                  required in this duty, and the pain it occasioned her.
               After this I frequently saw her in tears, and sometimes going in that condition to
                  the Father Superior's room. I noticed that she looked delicate, and wonderfully
                  changed in appearance. She used to be called upon to read aloud on successive
                  days, for a week at a time, during dinner and supper, out of the Lives of the
                  Saints, the Roman Martyrology, and other books—a duty which the mistress of
                  novices, who never entertained any special regard for me, desired me to perform
                  form, but the Superior would not indulge her in this wish. At other times, and in
                  addition to this duty, she was obliged to wait upon the table. Once she was sent
                  to the infirmary in consequence of a cold taken from sleeping in the dormitory
                  without sufficient covering in winter, and when I left she was again there.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               TOKENS OF SISTERLY REGARD.
               IT will be readily imagined that the unnatural state of things prevailing under
                  the conventual system is calculated rather to promote than prevent the rising of
                  those petty jealousies and dislikes which must be incidental to such an
                  association. Without the strong ties of kindred or friendship to bind them one to
                  another, it is not likely that the poor prisoners of a convent will spend in
                  perfect harmony the tedious hours and years of their compulsory seclusion. A
                  single incident may let the reader into the realities of that relationship which
                  Rome pretends to constitute among the unhappy inmates of a nunnery, and which she
                  designates by the deceptive name of "sisterhood."
               Having been sent one evening to work in the boarders' refectory, instead of that
                  of the sisterhood, while standing near one of the tables at which the boarders
                  were seated, I took up a basket and carried it to the scullery for some bread.
                  Scarcely had I entered the room and handed the basket to the sister who had charge
                  of the department, when I felt myself seized by the arm, and, looking round, saw
                  the angry countenance of the sister who presided at the boarders' table. She asked
                  me, in a passionate tone, by whose authority I had taken that basket for bread,
                  and whether I had been appointed waiter by the Superior. I answered no, and that I
                  would not have taken the basket had she not ordered me, the night before, to do so
                  when she had said that bread was wanting upon the table.
               The sister told me that I had no authority of the kind, and that she would report
                  me to the Superior, and have me brought before "the council." I replied that I was
                  not conscious of having done wrong; but she followed me into the porch, talking in
                  a loud and angry tone. I dreaded the "sacred council," and went at once to the
                  novitiate, and told the mistress of novices what had just occurred. She answered
                  me that I had "many a cross to bear."
               That evening, while on the way to my cell, I noticed in one of the cloisters a
                  sister leaning against the wall. She beckoned me to her, and then made a motion
                  for me to follow her. I soon found it was the sister who had ill-treated me in the
                  refectory. I became alarmed, as she was leading me to a balcony beyond the cells.
                  I whispered that I must go to my cell—that I would be missed. By this time we had
                  reached the balcony. She insisted that I should wait, closing, at the same time,
                  the door after us. Just then, hearing a noise near by, as if some one was crossing
                  the porch to the infirmary, we walked on a few steps to escape observation. The
                  sister then fell on her knees, asking my forgiveness for having abused me, and
                  begging me not to speak of what had occurred should I have an interview with the
                  Superior priest. I would here state that, in those interviews, a sister is
                  questioned as to any difficulties she may have had with others in the community. I promised secresy,
                  and went to my cell.
               Wearied and exhausted with my duties in the academy, besides my evening work, an
                  irresistible oppression of soul weighing down my powers of mind and body, I tried
                  in vain to sleep. I thought of my ill health, caused by the laborious exercises I
                  had to perform, and the sufferings and sorrows I had undergone since my reception
                  in the community. I looked out upon the future: it appeared to stretch before me,
                  even into eternity, a drear path on which no beam of sunlight would fall to cheer,
                  and in which no voice of kindred love would breathe its music of consolation to my
                  heart. I sighed for my home. In desolation of spirit, I mourned for its remembered
                  love. But the fearful consciousness came to me that I was severed eternally from
                  all that made life dear. At length I arose, dressed, and groped my way along the
                  cloister leading to the choir, and from thence down the narrow flight of stairs
                  into the chapel. It was dark, save for the few rays that streamed from the
                  solitary light which burned dimly in the sanctuary. Kneeling before the altar, I
                  fastened my eyes upon the crucifix above it. Long and earnestly I gazed, but the
                  feelings that filled my soul were too deep to find repose in the contemplation of
                  any material object. I bowed my head upon the railing, and wept. Ere long, the
                  image of HIM who had suffered arose to my view; the pure and holy Savior of the
                  world, whose mild, benignant eyes, in their pitying tenderness, penetrated to the
                  depths of my wretched heart, and shed a blessed hope upon its gloom. I
                  prayed—prayed earnestly, and from the heart; my desires flowed from its inmost
                  depths. With streaming eyes and unutterable groans, I asked Him, the Savior of the
                  world, to deliver me from this prison, this den of cruelty and hypocrisy. I
                  believe it to be the only time I prayed from my heart while in the
                  institution.
               With this outburst of emotion, this pouring forth of my grief to God in spirit and
                  in truth, I found relief, and became composed and calm.
               I know not how long I had been 
                     keeeling
                     kneeling
                  , when I was startled by deep-drawn sighs and sobs, proceeding from the
                  direction of the "seven dolors" altar,*
                   which is at one side of the chapel door, under the choir. Fearing
                  observation, I arose, and hastening down one side of the chapel, reached the
                  stairs leading to the choir. As I entered the choir, I saw a dark figure glide
                  past me, and go into a small passage behind the organ. Probably this person was in
                  search of the poor heart-broken creature whom I had left weeping so bitterly at
                  the foot of the "seven dolors" altar. Fortunately I escaped notice, and, softly
                  closing the door behind me, reached my cell just before the bell rang for morning
                  prayers in the chapel.
               
                  
                  *An altar, that is, dedicated to the "seven sorrows" of the Virgin
                     Mary—"septem dolores."
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               CRUELTIES INFLICTED.
               SO far as my own observation and experience can attest, nothing is more mistaken
                  than the notion which has led so many to the cloisters, namely, that the holy and
                  religious life of the nun, or, as at St. Joseph's, of the Sister of Charity,
                  delivers her from the liability to fall into the grosser passions of the world,
                  such as envy, malice, hatred, jealousy, anger, passionate love, etc. These evil
                  susceptibilities of human frailty exist in their fullest perfection and
                  development among the inmates of the convent.
               The even rule of justice is not more rigorously carried out there than among men
                  in general, nor do the heavenly dictates of pure charity always animate and
                  control the Superiors of that "house of charity," but partiality, favoritism,
                  prejudice, and cruelty exhibit their baleful influence throughout the community.
                  Of this, if it were necessary, numerous instances might be recounted—acts so
                  oppressive and severe that I verily believe they were performed with the purpose
                  of destroying the health, as well as of cowing the spirit. If in this suspicion I
                  do wrong to the perpetrators of those acts, God, who alone reads the heart, and
                  knows what my sufferings have been, will, I trust, forgive me.
               It would be natural to expect that a system of favoritism would extensively
                  prevail within the walls of such an institution, not only as regards the Mother
                  Superior, who dispenses her indulgence and partiality among those upon whom she
                  can rely, or whom she wishes to attach to herself, but also with respect to the
                  priests and certain members of the community. Jealousy also exerts a potent sway
                  throughout the sisterhood. It is no rare thing to witness the features of a
                  beautiful girl convulsed and distorted with passion when she passes a rival, who
                  exults for a season in the triumph she has achieved, but who, poor deluded victim!
                  soon is brought to experience like sensations of anger and thirst for revenge upon
                  her own desertion for more attractive objects of priestly favor and desire.
               Here I shall mention occurrences as they come up to my remembrance, with a view to
                  illustrate the power and disposition of those who exercise authority in the
                  institution to annoy and oppress such individuals as may have displeased them.
               The intensity of these passions can be only augmented by the necessity of keeping
                  them pent up and disguised from perception and discovery, or by their uncontrolled
                  violence among those whose rank elevates them above the need of disguise. When
                  occasionally permitted to manifest themselves at a fitting opportunity, they burst
                  forth in redoubled vehemence. I myself have frequently been made the subject of
                  these exhibitions. Regarded from the outset with jealousy as "the pet
                  Josephine," I was visited with every annoyance that could be devised by certain
                  individuals in the community. At one time, on the pretense that I had knelt and kissed the floor too near the door
                  in the novitiate, I was reported by a sister to the mistress of novices, who made
                  me do penance by kneeling before the altar until permission should be given me to
                  leave, and I was kept in that painful posture nearly three hours. Another time, as
                  I was passing by the side of another sister through a doorway, she thrust me
                  violently against the jamb, pressing with her whole strength upon me, and with
                  such force as to break my beads to pieces, the crucifix and other pieces falling
                  to the floor, scattered in every direction. In a third instance, I found myself
                  watched and persecuted without intermission by a sister who had charge of the
                  sewing. She would consequently assign to me the worst and most difficult work she
                  could find, telling me to perform it in a certain way; then, when done, she would
                  say it was wrong, and order me to pick it out and do it over in some other way.
                  This accomplished, she would finally report me for doing it improperly, and tell
                  falsehoods to substantiate the accusation.
               One morning, a slip of paper, containing the names of those who had been called
                  upon to make the "repetition" of their meditations, was found upon the table, torn
                  across the middle. A sister came to me and said, "You tore that piece of paper;
                  you had no right to do so; I will report you." I denied the charge, knowing
                  nothing of the deed, and not having been near the table. She insisted on
                  criminating me, and reported me accordingly.
               Going up stairs one evening to my cell, I discovered something like a heap of
                  clothes lying on one of the broad steps; I heard, also, moans and lamentations.
                  There was but one lamp burning very dimly in the cloister, and putting out my foot
                  to ascertain what the object before me was, I discovered it to be sister J. P——,
                  of shoe memory. Giving her no very gentle kick by way of retaliation,
                  I passed on to my cell. She was indeed ill, as I afterward learned, and needed
                  commiseration; but the feeling was one which had not obtained much cultivation in
                  my breast since entering the institution, where it was very seldom exercised by
                  others.
               About a quarter after nine o'clock one very cold evening, the mistress of novices
                  came to me in a state of unusual excitement, and said, "Sister Josephine, I want
                  you to go to the chapel, and see if all the doors are closed, and if every thing
                  is right there, and if nothing is missing about the altar." To do this, I would
                  have to grope my way through a dark passage in the basement to the stairs leading
                  up to the chapel. Somewhat terrified at the thought of performing this errand
                  alone, I obeyed nevertheless. On reaching the lobby that led into the church, I
                  found the inner door open. I walked slowly to the door, and looked into the
                  church, when I heard a noise like the sullen growl of a dog, and a rattling as of
                  a chain; and by the dim light of the lamp before the altar, I saw a dark form
                  before the altar of the "seven dolors." I ventured to approach, and found it was a
                  member of the community; who, I knew not then, nor have I since learned; but it
                  was one whom I have seen at other times. She was old and decrepit, and nearly
                  blind, and used to go, about that hour of the night, to pray in the chapel and say her rosary. She always carried
                  her books with her, wrapped in a yellow pocket-handkerchief, though she could not
                  see to read.
               Not observing any thing else of an unusual character in the chapel, I turned to go
                  out, groping my way back. I closed the door after me, and reached the brick
                  corridor. When near the statue of St. Vincent, by a light in the novitiate I could
                  see the mistress of novices coming out of that room, and approaching the spot
                  where I stood. Though I saw her, she could not see me. At once I determined to
                  frighten her, in return for sending me upon that errand. She was walking very
                  lightly, as though in fear of something. I stationed myself on one side of the
                  statue, and, as she drew near me, rushed out against her, and crowded her against
                  the stone wall on the outer side. She uttered a cry of terror, and I fled rapidly
                  down the corridor, and thence to my cell.
               Although the mistress of novices seemed to entertain an aversion for me, yet the
                  Mother Superior treated me at times in a very different manner, showing me marked
                  favor, and this may have instigated the hatred manifested toward me by the
                  former.
               I was several times sent for by the Lady Superior to accompany her as a companion
                  in her drives. On these occasions she had an attendant in the carriage and a
                  colored driver on the box. Once or twice we passed through the town of
                  Emmettsburg, but I was not privileged to look out of the carriage, which was a
                  close one, and was directed to keep my eyes cast down. The impossibility of an
                  escape at such times will be apparent. The town of Emmettsburg is chiefly Roman
                  man Catholic; many of its inhabitants are dependent on the institution for
                  support. The Lady Superior is a great favorite among them. She did not stop any
                  where to make visits on these occasions. An attempt to leave the carriage would
                  not only have proved useless at the time, but would have subjected me to severe
                  punishment, and exposed me to closer confinement. We wore, in driving out, the
                  habit usually worn by the community. My place was at the Superior's side on the
                  back seat, the front seat being occupied by the other sister or attendant
                  accompanying us. We entered the carriage from the Superior's room, near which it
                  had been driven up to an inner gate situated in a wall between two buildings;
                  through this gate we passed into the carriage, and there we left it on our return.
                  I was never permitted to leave the Superior's side during this time.
               For these marks of favor bestowed by the Lady Superior I have noticed that the
                  jealousy of some was awakened, as also when a medal of the Virgin Mary, called the
                  "medal of the immaculate conception," was presented to me by a priest. This medal
                  was placed upon my beads, and thus worn in sight; and the sisters would say, as I
                  passed them, "The Superior's pet; the priests' pet; I know where that came from,"
                  etc. They would take hold of the medal and examine the inscription, which read as
                  follows, in French: "O Mary, conceived without sin, pray for us, who have recourse
                  to thee."
               This medal, I may state, was the second of the kind presented in the institution.
                  It was made, I think, of gilded brass. The first one was given to a novice who had been converted to the Catholic
                  persuasion, and was older than myself in that faith. Many of the sisters showed
                  evident signs of jealousy toward her, which I observed the more, perhaps, from
                  being on the alert when placed in the same category, and made the object of
                  similar remarks, looks, and actions, small in themselves, but indicative of
                  spiteful feeling.
               Several of the vowed sisters wear a medal of St. Dominic, the virtues of which are
                  said to shield the wearer from sickness, peril, and other injuries. It is worn as
                  a charm to secure this protection. The inscription is in four letters, with a
                  cross, the meaning of which I did not know, nor did any of the sisters within my
                  knowledge. These medals were given by the Superior as tokens of regard.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               TRIAL OF MY VOCATION.
               IT was about two months previous to my escape from the institution, when, entering
                  the corridor one day on my way to the chapel, I observed a spy who had been placed
                  there to watch those who were going thither. As I approached, she rushed toward
                  me, and pinching me by the arm, she said, hissing through her closed teeth,
                  "Didn't you hear the bell?" Though it was silence-hour, I answered her, "Yes, I
                  heard the bell." This offense was reported, and I was punished for it. I supposed
                  the sister to be jealous of me, but for what cause I knew not.
               At another time—it was on Sunday, at the close of the silence-hour, and the bell
                  was ringing for vespers—an act of cruelty was perpetrated toward me, which
                  likewise I have been unable to account for. The sisters had formed the rank to
                  proceed to chapel, and I was in the rear. The mistress of novices came forward,
                  and struck me upon the forehead with her clenched fist. I looked with amazement
                  into her face, but durst not speak, as it was a season of strict silence. She bade
                  me keep my eyes down, at the same time repeating the blow; then catching hold of
                  the ends of my black silk "capot," which were tied loosely ly under my chin, she drew them so tightly around
                  my throat as for a moment to deprive me of breath. I struggled to get free, but
                  recent illness had rendered me very weak. I then fell on my knees before her, and
                  uttered a loud scream, for I began to fear she would take my life. There was no
                  one to help me. The last novice who had passed through the door, in the rank, did
                  not dare to turn and see what had occasioned the scream.
               When I could speak I begged her to spare my life, and asked what I had done to
                  merit such treatment. She answered not a word, but dragged me across the novitiate
                  to the passage beyond, loosening and drawing alternately the ends of my "capot."
                  As soon as she released her grasp I arose, but was forced to cling to the railing
                  of the stairs for support.
               She then said to me, "I did not think you would take it so well." I
                  begged her again to tell me what I had done, but she did not reply. I told her
                  that I would go to the priest's room, and see the Superior about it; when she
                  rushed toward me again, and taking me by the arm, shook me violently, saying, "Go
                  if you dare, and I will follow you." She then ordered me to the chapel, where all
                  the community had by this time assembled for prayers.
               Trembling and weeping, I obeyed; and after service I spoke to the Mother Superior,
                  but could obtain no satisfaction from her. Shortly after, I saw the Superior, and
                  told him my trouble. Patting me on the head, he said, "I must not mind it; it was
                     only a trial of my vocation—a trial sent from God; I should like
                  the life after a while;" and thus, while he endeavored ored to soothe my wounded
                  feelings, he justified the act.
               I have said that I had reason from the first to regard myself as an object of
                  peculiar hatred on the part of the mistress of novices, and I may here remark that
                  she was of foreign birth, very astute in her perceptions, keen, shrewd, and
                  penetrating, and had doubtless discerned, or thought she discerned, in my
                  character a trait of firmness amounting to obstinacy, which would develop itself
                  whenever I should be convinced of the duplicity practiced in that institution, and
                  therefore I would never be a reliable "Sister of Charity."
               The Lady Superior, a perfect lady in her deportment, and possessed of a powerful
                  intellect and a profound knowledge of the human heart, mild, bland, and, withal,
                  very discriminating, I have reason to believe had not so read my character, but
                  persuaded herself that I would yet become a willing and perfectly obedient
                  "daughter of St. Vincent."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               HUMILITY.
               I WAS ordered one day by an officer of the institution to scrub some stains from
                  the floor of the porch, where grease had been accidentally spilled by a sister.
                  The day was intensely cold, and at first I was inclined to refuse; but the order
                  being reiterated in an authoritative tone, I dared not do so. Frequently have I
                  seen the blood oozing from the chapped hands of those engaged in laborious duties
                  under similar circumstances.
               It was in consequence of such a want of "humility"*
                   on my part that the mistress of novices once remarked to me she wished I
                  had been in the community during the life of Sister Daserai, who had died a short
                  time before my entrance, and whose grave was yet fresh in the cemetery. This
                  person was a native of France, the daughter of a marquis, and is said to have been
                  very beautiful, of a noble and commanding appearance. She was dressed, on her
                  arrival, in black, having been but a short time a widow. Though persuaded suaded
                  to enter St. Joseph's, she would not at first comply with the rules of the
                  community, which were not strictly enforced by the officers in her case, owing to
                  the high station she had occupied in society, and her great wealth. She could not
                  bear the idea of drinking out of a tin cup, or of washing her hands in a tin
                  basin, and positively refused to do so. Her arms, from unaccustomed exposure,
                  having become rough, she would often endeavor to hide them with her hands and
                  sleeves.
               
                  
                  *How strikingly is this false sentiment rebuked in those prophetic words of
                     the apostle, where he condemns those things "which have indeed a show
                        of wisdom in will-worship, and humility, and neglecting of the
                        body; not in any honor, to the satisfying of the flesh."—Col.,
                     ii., 23.
               
               The Superior, seeing that this sister lacked "humility," determined to set about
                  humbling her pride. She was assigned the most laborious work in the house. In
                  exchange for the silk dress she wore on entering, a coarse, patched habit was
                  given her. Soon, finding that her will was held in subjection, and that she must
                  renounce it entirely, she became convinced "that Almighty God would be pleased
                  with her spirit of humility," and no longer refused to comply with the wishes of
                  her superiors.
               Her duties were increased daily, and were performed to a greater extent even than
                  required. She would scrub the floor until the blood streamed from her hands, and
                  would say to a sister who chanced to be passing by, "See the blood streaming from
                  my hands—it is all for our Lord." Her mind was in such a state that she believed
                  every untoward event to happen by the will of God. Should a fly alight on the
                  bread, or the molasses, or the soup she was eating, she would not brush it away,
                  but would eat it, because she thought such to be God's will. While at her duties
                  she was constantly saying her prayers, making aspirations, fasting, etc. "She lost her health,"
                  said the mistress of novices to me, "because the Lord loved her, and wished to
                  take her to himself."
               Often would she rise at midnight to pray, and pass the entire night at her
                  devotions. If a member of the community spoke to her, she would utter no reply.
                  When taken ill and sent to the infirmary, she refused to take the medicine given
                  her, and requested to be put on duty there. Work was assigned her, which was
                  faithfully performed, as the mistress of novices said, "in a spirit of
                  mortification and penance."
               Soon after entering the infirmary, on account of the heavy work she performed, as
                  well as the prayers and penances she continued to observe, she was compelled, in
                  an almost dying condition, to take to her bed. There, however, she would not
                  recline upon her pillow, but, supported in a sitting posture, would pass her time
                  in sewing and knitting, until she became too weak to hold the needles in her
                  tremulous and almost transparent hands.
               Here, as the mistress of novices narrated these facts to me, I remarked, "She must
                  have had the consumption, mother."
               "Yes, my child," replied she, in her blandest tones, and gazing into my face;
                  "'tis a part of our vocation."
               During her illness in the infirmary she would often decline taking any
                  nourishment, and when she consented to do so, she ate the food with a number of
                  flies that had alighted upon it. "This she did for mortification," said my
                  informant. She would lie awake all night, making such aspirations as these: "Sweet
                  Jesus! Holy Mother! Holy St. Joseph! Pray for me." "I wish you could have seen
                  her," said the mistress of novices, "when she died. Her large black eyes were
                  fixed upon the crucifix, and she requested us to light the candles upon the table
                  at the foot of her bed, on which the crucifix stood. O sister! she was a living
                  saint, and at her death was admitted at once into the presence of our Lord and
                  blessed Mother; she melted away like a print of butter!"
               Such was the example I was desired to imitate.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               SELF-MORTIFICATION.
               THE foregoing narrative will serve to exemplify the nature of the subjects to
                  which our contemplations in the community were habitually drawn as worthy to be
                  admired and followed. I may now mention some few of the historical models whose
                  characters we were accustomed to study with peculiar veneration.
               The life of St. Theresa, founder of the Order of reformed Carmelites, was often
                  rehearsed for our special edification. She was a Carmelite nun, a native of Spain,
                  and undertook to revive the former austerities of the community to which she
                  belonged. Her history, written in French, was in the library, and was frequently
                  read. This order is the most strict of all except the Trappist. There is but one
                  Carmelite nunnery in this country—that, namely, which is located in Aisquith
                  Street, Baltimore. I have already given some account of its severe discipline.
               A favorite theme of narration at St. Joseph's was the life of the Princess Louise,
                  daughter of Louis XIV. of France, who became a Carmelite nun in her father's
                  palace.
               By the aid of a maid-servant and a nun who were in her confidence, she made her
                  profession, and having ing procured the tunic worn by the sisters, she wore it in
                  order to accustom herself to its use. After this she obtained the hair shirt, and
                  wore it also under her princely robes, without the knowledge of her royal parent.
                  She had an utter dislike to the odor of tallow; but, as the Carmelites use tallow
                  candles, she caused her servant to procure some, and every night would burn one—at
                  first for a short time, as the smell sickened her; and thus she accustomed herself
                  to it. In a very small room near her own she had placed an iron bedstead, with a
                  hard mattress, and, before retiring to her own apartment, she would recline for a
                  while on this Carmelite bed, until so used to it that she could there pass the
                  whole night. Thus it was that she practiced mortification of the flesh. She
                  afterward entered the nunnery, and it is related that on one occasion she was sent
                  to scour the pots and kettles in the kitchen. She was robed in a brocade, "couleur
                  de rose," and this dress has been preserved, to show that even a princess could
                  perform menial offices. Not knowing how to do such work, she ignorantly cleaned
                  the outside of the vessel; but, when told that it was the inside that should be
                  cleaned, she cheerfully scoured that also.
               These instances of humility on the part of a princess were held up for our
                  instruction; and my own feelings, in view of such relations, were at times deeply
                  exercised, as I was urged to emulate this spirit of so-called humility and
                  mortification of the flesh.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               INSANITY AT ST. JOSEPH'S.
               SISTER JOHN PATIENTIA, as she was called, was a person considerably past the
                  period of youth, and somewhat faded in aspect, but still retaining the traces of
                  extraordinary beauty. She would often break the rules of the institution, but
                  would receive no punishment for the offense. She would sometimes speak in time of
                  silence, and try to make the novices laugh. Entering the novitiate with a
                  mischievous glance around her, she would utter some humorous remark, provoking
                  almost irresistible mirth.
               If, as the wise man says, there be "a time to laugh," it is assuredly not during
                  any portion of a novice's life. The rules forbid any approach to merriment; a
                  serious face is continually to be worn, and any thing like levity would be
                  severely punished.
               This alone, it might be supposed, would of itself impair the health of an
                  individual endowed by nature with a lively and cheerful disposition. But, as I am
                  not qualified to judge of this effect, I simply state the fact, and leave
                  physiologists to determine.
               Sister Patientia was very talented and highly educated. She spoke several
                  languages fluently, and had formerly been a teacher in the academy. Her duties at
                  present were to attend to the corridor, or outer gallery; sweeping the brick
                  floor, brushing the windows, and removing the dust from the leaves of the plants;
                  scrubbing the platform and steps, and washing the windows. It was her duty also to
                  ring the great bell of the cloisters for the devotions of the community. This is
                  the sister who had charge of the shoe-room, and of whom I have elsewhere
                  spoken.
               Sometimes, as the sisters were passing her in the corridor, she would rest her
                  chin on her broom, look facetiously at them, making faces, and stationing herself
                  in their way to obstruct their progress. She did not take her meals with the
                  community, but breakfasted at about ten, and dined at four. Her portion would be
                  placed upon the corner of the table, near the door. She would remove the plate
                  that covered it, and then perform her devotions before the crucifix in a manner
                  calculated to excite merriment, making the sign of the cross with a rapid jerk.
                  Then, looking significantly upon her food, she would go away and leave it
                  untouched; or, perhaps, taking a mouthful, make a grimace, mutter to herself, and
                  walk hastily away through the corridor. I seized an opportunity one day to ask her
                  why she did not take her meals more regularly. She replied, "One should take more
                  care of the soul than of the body;" and her tone and manner were so ludicrous that
                  I could not help laughing.
               Sometimes, on meeting the Superior in the corridor, she would kneel down, and kiss
                  the hem of her habit with an air of the most devout worship. One day she took me
                  with her to her cell, and commenced to
                  give me a short history of her early life; of the wealth of her family; how she
                  entered the institution, leaving home without her parents' knowledge or consent;
                  how she came to this country, etc. Fearing lest I should overstay my time, I
                  attempted to leave. "Wait a little," she replied, "till I tell you how much I have
                  suffered and am suffering now." Pointing to her bed, she said, "I have not rested
                  on that bed for years, but am forced to remain in a sitting posture all night, on
                  account of a large ulcer on my side, and a difficulty in breathing that will not
                  suffer me to lie down."
               There was another sister in the house who was also said to be insane, yet was
                  allowed to go about the house, and to attend mass and confession. I remember
                  meeting her once on the corridor, when she came rushing toward me, and, shaking
                  her clenched fist, shrieked, "Novice! get out of my way!" I jumped over an
                  oleander box to avoid her, in great alarm.
               The reader will not be surprised to hear that there are insane inmates of these
                  institutions. There is an apartment for the insane which I have never entered. I
                  have occasionally seen insane persons come rushing out of a door at the foot of a
                  stairway leading to that apartment, muttering and talking wildly. The unnatural
                  life they lead is, perhaps, the life of all others most calculated to produce such
                  effects.
               Infirmity of body and insanity of mind I consider the natural results
                  of convent life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               ORDER OF "SISTERS OF CHARITY."
               THE institution of St. Joseph's is not one of those establishments denominated
                  "close convents," in which the nuns, having once assumed the veil, are perpetually
                  immured. Its ostensible purpose is the education and training of its inmates for
                  deeds of charity and mercy. These persons, having received the requisite
                  instruction and discipline, are, when they can be trusted, dispatched
                  to various stations, with the object of exercising their functions and of
                  attracting notice to the order to which they belong. They constitute a striking
                  feature in the Roman Catholic Church, and offer a continual and living text of
                  laudation to the priests, who point to them and to their "labors of love" as
                  beneficent fruits and appropriate illustrations of the holy character of their
                     religion.*
                  There
                     
                     *In so far as this order claims to be a voluntary association of women for
                        charitable purposes, under the title of Sisters of Charity, it
                        is no original creation of the Roman Catholic Church, but has actually been
                        borrowed from Protestantism. Among the Waldenses, the "Bohemian Brothers,"
                        and the Moravians, there is a record of the existence of "deaconesses," as
                        they were termed in the primitive age, as early as 1457; but it was in the
                        sixteenth century that Robert von der Mark, Prince of Sedan in the
                        Netherlands, founded the institution of Protestant "Demoiselles de Charité," as he called them, and to this
                        institution he granted the revenues of suppressed monasteries. The office so
                        founded received a formal ecclesiastical recognition in 1568, from the
                        General Synod of the Reformed Church of the Lower Rhine and the Netherlands.
                        It was not until 1633, or sixty-five years later, that Vincent
                        de Paul established his order of Sisters of Charity. There are now
                        institutions bearing the title of houses of Protestant Sisters of Charity,
                        or Deaconesses, at Paris, Strasburg, Echallens, Berlin, Utrecht, Stockholm,
                        and Kaiserwerth. There is also one at Pittsburg in our own country. Acting
                        as nurses to the sick, teachers of reformatory schools, guardians of females
                        released from prison, visitors of the poor, and in other spheres of
                        usefulness, these excellent women are bound by no vow or
                        obligation of obedience, but serve God with the freedom and voluntary
                        earnestness of intelligent Christians. They number now many hundreds, of
                        whom several are engaged at the present moment in caring for the wounded and
                        dying of the allied armies before Sebastopol. The institution of
                        Kaiserwerth, on the Rhine, under the direction of the Reverend Pastor
                        Fliedner and his excellent wife, has sent forth no fewer than one hundred
                        and eighty of these deaconesses to different parts of the world. Its
                        hospital contains one hundred and twenty patients, its training institution
                        for deaconesses seventy-seven probationers; the entire household, with
                        orphan asylum, infant school, etc., numbering three hundred and ninety
                        inmates. But while we cite these facts to show that the idea of such
                        charitable enterprises is not peculiar to Romanism, we would not lay any
                        great stress upon such developments of Christian charity, remembering that
                        the glory of our Protestantism resides not in a multitude of formal
                        organizations for the professed relief of human miseries, but consists
                        rather in those numberless, quiet, and unobtrusive channels of individual
                        beneficence which in Protestant countries now, as in the primitive days of
                        Christianity, carry material succor and spiritual consolation to the abodes
                        of the destitute and friendless. And while, thanks to the healthful
                        tendencies of a pure religion, which elevates the masses in mental capacity,
                        and social comfort, and political well-being, there is far from the same
                        amount of physical distress to call for alleviation in Protestant lands as
                        in those where Romanism has combined with civil despotism for ages past to
                        crush the intellect and degrade the life of the masses, we do not covet, in
                        any sense, the help of these conventual systems and establishments, which
                        undertake, by a mechanism controlling individual wills under a stern law of
                        obedience to authority, the performance of those offices of mercy, which, to
                        be truly Christian, must be the dictates of a free and cheerful piety.
                   are forty-one
                  mission-houses attached to the order in the United States, numbering about five
                  hundred members, including those at the central institution. These are scattered
                  in various cities and towns of the country. Where there are but two sisters in a
                  city or town, they have their mission-house, their chapel, and their separate
                  confessional, at which the priest on the station is always a frequent visitor.
                  When their services are not too constantly in requisition, they generally open a
                  school, at which the children of the poor are taught free of charge, and by which
                  means many proselytes are won to the Roman Catholic faith. These communities are
                  all under the control of the Superior of St. Joseph's, which is the
                  "mother-house," as it is styled, in this country. But this mother-house is
                  connected with the house in Paris, which is the centre of the whole order
                  throughout the world, comprising some five hundred and fifty-three establishments,
                  with nearly nine thousand members. This is according to the best statistics I can
                  obtain; but in the institution of St. Joseph's I was informed there was a much
                  larger number.
               The fact that sisters are sent from the mother-house to the different towns and
                  cities throughout the country to exercise their vocation as nurses for the sick,
                  has been enlarged upon to refute and ridicule the idea of any restraint or
                  coercion to prevent members from leaving the institution; but this assertion must
                  be received with a considerable degree of allowance. It should be recollected that
                  the sisters who are thus sent abroad go forth to establish new communities
                     ("missions sions" they are called)
                  subordinate to the principal one, where the same rules are observed as at
                  head-quarters. On these missions only the trustworthy—those, namely,
                  upon whom the Superior can implicitly rely—are sent. But a little reflection will
                  convince the reader that, even if so disposed, it would be a difficult thing for a
                  sister to escape from her bonds. A constant supervision is kept by the priest and
                  the sister-servant on the station, who would instantly report any refractory
                  symptoms, and she would be recalled. In a strange place, too, far from her
                  friends, it would require a strong resolution to desert her charge, and appeal to
                  the public, especially when she knows that the entire Catholic population would
                  combine to discredit her statement and destroy her character. Few would dare to
                  contend with such considerations as these. By far the greater number would prefer
                  to endure evils with which they were familiar rather than encounter unknown trials
                  in a new position.
               The number of inmates at St. Joseph's, including postulants, seminary sisters or
                  novices, and professed sisters, is about one hundred and forty—often more, but
                  seldom less. This number, of course, does not comprehend the boarders in the
                  academy, of whom there are sometimes as many as one hundred and fifty. From this
                  mother-house, members are transferred, at the option of the Superior, to the
                  corresponding institutions in different parts of the United States—even to
                  California, and also to France. This removal is in order to supply vacancies
                  occasioned by sickness or death in the subordinate communities, and sometimes to
                  establish communities in places where their existence may be deemed politic or
                  necessary, as the means of increasing the influence of the Church in such
                  localities.
               The Sisters of Charity have for years constituted a theme of enthusiastic praise
                  and commendation, even on the part of many Protestants. Their purity, their
                  self-devotion, their self-denial, their courage in exposure to disease while
                  ministering to the wants of the sick and dying, in crowded hospitals, whose fetid
                  atmosphere is full of peril, have been lauded to the skies. Turgid eulogies of
                  their gentleness and beauty, their tender ministrations, the soft touch of their
                  white hands, and the sympathetic tear called forth by the sufferings of their
                  patients, have been so often the subject of newspaper paragraphs and
                  sentimentalities of novels, that public sentiment has been warmly enlisted in
                  their advocacy and defense. But it may be asked, in all candor, is there any need
                  of the show and parade with which the good deeds of these sisters are exposed to
                  the views of the world? Are they the only beings who tend the bed of sickness, or
                  assuage the pangs of disease? Are those only to be regarded as acts of Christian
                  benevolence which are accomplished by drilled and disciplined cohorts, who, like
                  the soldiers of an army, resign themselves to the government of a single will, and
                  mechanically or slavishly obey it? Is this method so infinitely superior to that
                  of the numerous Protestant associations throughout the length and breadth of our
                  land, and the far more numerous individual missionaries of mercy, who not only
                  tend the sick in the hospitals, but, far more, who search out the poor, the widow,
                  the fatherless, and let in the light of
                  charity upon their comfortless abodes? who instruct the ignorant, comfort the
                  desponding, and reclaim the fallen, and this of their own free, heaven-inspired
                  choice and uncontrolled purpose, and without regard to sectarian limits, but
                  rather extending to all, of every name and nation, an equal share of generous
                  relief? The appropriation of all these high-toned panegyrics to a vowed community
                  of Roman Catholics, whose main design is avowedly to proselyte by means of their
                  various enterprises of benevolence, reflects an indirect slander upon the charity
                  of Protestants, as though their less ostentatious course were actuated by inferior
                  motives.
               I entertained formerly the same extravagant ideas of the pure and unselfish life
                  of this order, but experience and observation have dispelled the illusion. The
                  fact is, that the whole system of popery is one of proselytism, toward the
                  fulfillment of which every instrument is brought to bear; and the Order of
                  "Sisters of Charity" forms not the least efficient part of the forces employed by
                  Romanism, certainly not the least influential of the appliances by which the
                  doctrines of popery are infused into the breasts of the credulous and unwary.
               The community of St. Joseph's is under the direction of two superiors—the "Mother
                  Superior," and a priest of the Order of St. Lazare. It would be an anomaly in
                  Romanism for an institution to exist without the participation of the "holy
                  fathers" in its government. The Lazarists have a "house" at Emmettsburg, and pay
                  frequent visits to St. Joseph's to hear confessions and for other purposes. They
                  are styled in the community the "sons," as the sisterhood are the "daughters" of
                  charity, regarding each other as brethren and sisters of one great family. The two
                  orders are thus nearly allied, and operate in association. They are governed by
                  the same religious authorities, the ecclesiastical superior of the one being the
                  director of the other, and both having the same chief confessor. They affect a
                  community of interests, and mutually extol each others' merits, and commend the
                  piety, devotedness, and purity of each others' lives. One of these priests is
                  always at the institution, where he is regarded with the utmost reverence and
                  affection, and his counsels are appreciated as the commands of Deity.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               THE ACADEMY.
               CONNECTED with St. Joseph's there is a school for the instruction of young ladies,
                  at which the most accomplished and reliable of the sisterhood are teachers. The
                  academy is a separate building, but attached to the other edifices by covered
                  porches, and the pupils have their distinct refectory and sleeping apartments,
                  which are presided over by sisters appointed for the purpose, and denominated
                  "angels," as before stated.
               This school is managed with consummate dexterity and ability; so much so, that,
                  with few exceptions, the scholars become ardently attached to their teachers, and
                  are warm advocates of the interests of the community. This is no matter for
                  wonder, as they see only the bright side of the picture, and have not the most
                  remote conception of the privations, the intrigues, and the horrors within. They
                  behold an assemblage of pious recluses, who have parted with all the vanities of
                  the world, and are preparing themselves, by patient and meek self-denial, to
                  assuage the sufferings of their fellow-creatures on earth, and render themselves
                  meet for heaven. So fair is the light, so attractive the coloring of this poetic
                  scene, that many, having passed through their educational course in the academy,
                  return to the institution, and enter upon their novitiate, discovering too late
                  their mistake, and the terrible reality of the life before them.
               Both the Jesuits and the "Sisters of Charity" are adepts in teaching the young,
                  having reduced the practice, by long experience and study, to a system almost
                  perfect. They know especially how to blend strictness and discipline with kindness
                  and indulgence, by observing the characters and dispositions of those under their
                  charge. The pupils are taught well, according to the capacity of each, that their
                  parents may be satisfied with their progress and attainments, and may speak in
                  approving terms of the institution. At the same time, every exertion is made to
                  win the affections and secure the confidence of the scholars, that they may stamp
                  their young and impressible minds with the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church,
                  and, if possible, allure them within the pale of the community. Rarely do these
                  attempts prove unsuccessful, at least in creating a strong prepossession toward
                  those doctrines; and the ideas implanted at the school become deep-rooted and
                  fruitful, unless checked in their growth by the watchful care of parents and
                  friends, even this proving often unavailing.
               At St. Joseph's all the pupils, or boarders, as they are called, are
                  required to attend mass once a day, and to go through all the genuflexions and
                  other forms usual at that service. They do not, however, witness those other
                  religious exercises of the community, in which devotion is made a pretext for the
                  infliction of torture; they hear nothing of the rigid penances enjoined for the
                  slightest and most unintentional infraction tion of the rules; they are ignorant of the unjust
                  favoritism and the flagrant partialities exercised by those in power. All is
                  fairy-land to them. And should a charge be made to this effect in the presence of
                  a graduate of the academy, by a sufferer from these practices, she would be
                  denounced, as I have been, as a fabricator of falsehoods, and a calumniator of the
                  holy sisterhood.
               The extent to which the affections of the boarders are gained, both by the
                  Lazarist priests attached to the institution and by the teachers of the academy,
                  including the Mother Superior, is scarcely credible. I have known instances in
                  which boarders have refused to go home with their parents; and one in particular,
                  in which a father visited his daughter at St. Joseph's, when she manifested the
                  most complete indifference to his attentions, and even showed repugnance at his
                  caresses, weeping bitterly when told of his intention to take her home, and
                  angrily desiring to be left, even when appealed to in the name of her mother. More
                  than once have I seen, with the blood tingling in my veins, and the flush of
                  indignation on my cheek, a young girl of fifteen or sixteen reposing her head on
                  the breast of a young "Lazarist" as they walked together, his arm thrown over her
                  shoulder. This, no doubt, was innocent on her part, at least. She regarded him in
                  the light of a father; but what pernicious consequences might ensue from this
                  familiarity! And was he performing the office of a holy guide?
               And yet Protestant parents will send their children to be educated at Roman
                  Catholic institutions, deluding themselves with the idle and silly notion that no
                  effort will be made to indoctrinate them with popish errors. Are they not aware
                  that this religion is one of exclusive pretensions, and that, believing all
                  without its pale doomed to sure perdition, its members, if sincere, are bound to
                  use every effort for the conversion of heretics, and their rescue from
                  destruction? If ignorant of this, their ignorance is unpardonable, for it is the
                  result of sheer indifference, or disinclination to inform themselves on the
                  subject; and thus to hazard the temporal and eternal welfare of their most
                  precious jewels in slothful disregard of this all-important issue is a crime
                  beyond excuse. The whole paraphernalia of popery, from its enthroned vice-god at
                  Rome, to its humblest lay-member cringing at the feet of his priest, is
                  perpetually engaged in the business of making proselytes: the clergy, to swell the
                  ranks and augment the influence of their fraternity; and the laity, aside from all
                  other motives, because they believe that in so doing they are saving souls.
                  Schools and colleges afford the widest scope and the readiest means of realizing
                  these ends; and hence the great number of these institutions that have sprung up
                  of late, in every section of the land, attached to Jesuitical communities and
                  convents, where the craft of man and the gentle persuasion of woman unite in
                  bending the tender character of youth, that the matured tree may develop in
                  accordance with popish distortion and disease.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *While the influences brought to bear at these institutions upon the pupils
                     are generally such as to attract their affection, and render them contented,
                     there are cases in which a sterner course is followed, and in such cases the
                     oppression is evidently irremediable. Coercive means, as well as those of a
                     persuasive character, can be used, in the academy as in the sisterhood, to
                     accomplish the work of bending the will and the faculties to the purposes of
                     Rome. Inquiries have often been addressed to me with reference to the
                     opportunities of novices for sending messages to their friends by means of
                     the boarders. All such modes of communication are precluded by the watchful
                     care of those in charge. The directress has the perusal of all letters
                     written by the boarders or sent to them. Protestant parents should
                     understand that their children are not allowed to correspond with them in an
                     unrestrained manner. Small, however, as the chances of any communication
                     with friends may be in the academy, I feel assured that if any suspicion of
                     my discontent had been entertained, I should not have been permitted to
                     enter the academy for the purposes of teaching.
                  I may here mention the case of a child under my instruction at the academy—a
                     case which I am confident is only one among many: Josephine Picuabia (such,
                     I think, was the name) had been placed at St. Joseph's by her parents, who
                     were from Cuba, at a very early age. She would frequently come to her
                     lessons in tears, and, resting her head on my bosom, would give vent to her
                     sorrow, after exclaiming, "Oh, sister, you are the only one that is kind to
                     me!" She complained of severe treatment; that she was whipped and beaten,
                     and was in terror of her life, yet could not inform her parents, as the
                     directress would not let her write home.
                  This child first became attached to me more particularly because my name was
                     the same with her own. I always treated her kindly, and sympathized deeply
                     with her distress. We were frequently left alone in our music-room, and I
                     had occasion to hear her grievances as I endeavored to soothe her into
                     composure for her lessons.
               
               
               When will American parents learn wisdom? If they consider it indispensable that
                  their children be sent from home for their education, are there not hundreds of
                  Protestant schools, where every branch of knowledge is taught by intelligent and
                  experienced teachers; where every elegant accomplishment can be acquired, and all
                  valuable instruction obtained? At all events, let not the susceptible mind and
                  heart of a young girl be intrusted to the charge of Catholic nuns and their
                  clerical directors. Let not the precious objects jects of parental solicitude and
                  love—the Cornelian jewels of American homes—be placed where their lustre will be
                  tarnished and their value lost; when, in this Protestant land, so many
                  institutions have been founded where the youthful mind may be properly trained,
                  and the gem, skillfully polished, may be returned to adorn society and the
                  world.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               NUNNERIES AND SCHOOLS.
               IT is proper that some explanation be given at this point with reference to one of
                  the objects of these Roman Catholic institutions of learning, as it is one not
                  generally understood by the Protestant public.
               Schools are first opened in connection with a new enterprise of the Sisters of
                  Charity, at their mission-houses, for the reception of children belonging to the
                  poorer classes. This course at once establishes the reputation of the order for
                  benevolence and charity, and serves to ingratiate that part of the population, who
                  do not fail to speak in terms of eulogy respecting their amiable and disinterested
                  benefactors. The sisters have among them teachers highly competent to give
                  instruction in all the branches of female education, even for the highest
                  departments. Such teachers can always be procured from the older and
                  well-established houses of the community, and that without cost, save their
                  maintenance merely. Very soon they add "pay-scholars" to the number of their
                  pupils; and, as the school becomes better known, the proportion of such scholars
                  augments, while the number of those who are taught gratuitously diminishes. At
                  length there are none at all of the latter class, and then the institution assumes
                  the character of a select school. Even though the prices of tuition may not
                  greatly increase, a selection will be made from the more wealthy families, and
                  such as will best suit the purposes and designs of the managers. Next it becomes a
                  boarding-school; the prices are advanced; and in the course of time a more strict
                  discrimination is made in the reception of pupils. The number is more and more
                  limited, until, a sufficient amount having been realized from the proceeds of
                  instruction, the object is attained, and the school is abandoned altogether.
               Collections are often made among the scholars to add to the funds of the
                  institution. At St. Joseph's this was frequently done for some special purpose,
                  as, for instance, to beautify the grounds of mission-houses.
               At the Visitation Convent in Baltimore, on the corner of Park and Centre Streets,
                  the sisters had formerly a very extensive school, with a large number of boarders.
                  When I visited that convent prior to my entrance at St. Joseph's, I was informed
                  that the number of boarders was then limited to sixteen, and that the school would
                  soon be discontinued. I was also told that a sufficient amount had been acquired
                  for the purchase of Mount de Sales, a beautiful and most valuable property, which
                  cost over a million of dollars, and is now, I learn, the residence of Father
                  Deluol, the Superior General of the order of Jesuits. The carriage of that
                  institution was to have been sent for me to visit Mount de Sales in company with a
                  priest, but I did not remain in Baltimore long enough to avail myself of the
                  opportunity. At the Carmelite nunnery there was formerly a school, but not, I
                  believe, a boarding-school ing-school,
                  that institution being more strict and private than others. The school is now
                  given up altogether; so, at least, I was informed at St. Joseph's.
               While on the subject of the accumulation of money in these Roman Catholic
                  convents, I may advert to the fact that there is at St. Joseph's a
                     treasurer, who occupies a small apartment adjoining the
                  stationery-room, and in which she sleeps at night. I have often been sent to that
                  room, and have there observed an iron chest, in which I have seen a quantity of
                  gold coin and jewelry. Many of the statues are decorated with valuable ornaments,
                  such as diamond-rings, necklaces, gold crosses, etc. These are presents from
                  visitors and other friends. I knew one sister who wrote to her parents for certain
                  gold and silver articles of great value, which she designed as presents for one of
                  the statues of the Virgin Mary. If the sisters individually are poor, in
                  accordance with their vow of poverty, the community as a whole is wealthy, and the
                  Superiors exercise entire control over that wealth. They have also an immense farm
                  connected with the establishment.
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.
               FOUNDERS OF THE INSTITUTION.
               THE "Conferences" have frequently been mentioned in these pages, and in connection
                  with them the "rules" laid down by the founder of the community. These rules,
                  which are contained in small books kept under lock and key, have been handed down
                  from St. Vincent de Paul, who communicated them to the sisterhood.
               A large and finely-executed portrait of this saint, who was also the founder of
                  the congregation of missions known as the Order of St. Lazare, hangs in the chapel
                  at St. Joseph's. He is there represented as holding a foundling in his arms, while
                  at his side a sister is seen taking another infant out of a basket.
               The lives of St. Vincent de Paul and St. Francis de Sales were frequently given us
                  to read, as well as that of Mother Seton, who originated the institution at
                  Emmettsburg. Mrs. Seton had been a Protestant lady, the daughter of an eminent
                  physician in New York, and the wife of a merchant of high character, a member of
                  the Protestant Episcopal Church. In 1803 she accompanied her husband to Italy for
                  the benefit of his health; he, however, expired shortly after reaching Naples, and
                  she was at once received into the family ily of an Italian gentleman who had long been in commercial correspondence with
                  her husband. This gentleman, a zealous Roman Catholic, undertook the conversion of
                  Mrs. Seton to his own faith. His influence over her mind continued after her
                  return to America, and in 1805 she joined the Church of Rome, and was rebaptized
                  in St. Peter's, New York.
               Being in a great measure deserted by her relations, and obliged to resort to
                  teaching for support, Mrs. Seton removed shortly after her conversion to
                  Baltimore, where she opened a school, with the hope that, in process of time, it
                  might grow into "a society whose members would be specially consecrated to
                  God"—that is to say, into a convent. She was joined by her sister-in-law, and by a
                  Miss Conway, of Philadelphia; and soon after this was invited by the priests of
                  Baltimore to commence a "religious" establishment, for the foundation of which a
                  legacy of eight thousand dollars had recently been left.
               The vicinity of Emmettsburg having been selected for the location of the projected
                  sisterhood, a piece of land south of the village was bought. At that time the only
                  tenement on the farm was a small stone building, forming part of what is now used
                  as the wash-house of the institution. It stands at a short distance from the main
                  edifice, and is called the cradle of St. Joseph's.
               Mrs. Seton now assumed for herself and those who joined her the title of "Sisters
                  of St. Joseph," placing themselves "under the protecting care of St. Joseph, the
                  faithful guardian of the Son of God upon earth." In their new residence—a small
                  house containing only one story and an attic, with two rooms on each floor—sixteen
                  persons were soon crowded together. They were often reduced to the poorest fare,
                  such as "carrot-coffee, salt pork, and buttermilk." Thus they "labored at the work
                  of their sanctification." "Consequent upon this style of living to persons mostly
                  reared in luxury, the sisterhood was for several months an infirmary." Miss
                  Harriet Seton was the first victim. She was shortly followed by her sister
                  Cecilia. Mrs. Seton's eldest daughter, Anna, soon after sickened and died of
                  consumption. Her death was probably induced by acts of violent mortification,
                  which the biographer characterizes as "heroic." "I half reproached her," said her
                  mother, "for her little care of her health: rising at the first bell, ever being
                  on the watch to ring it the moment the clock struck; washing at the pump in the
                  severest weather; often eating in the refectory what sickened her stomach."
               The next who fell under this course of life was a Miss Murphy. "On one occasion
                  she was directed to put her feet in warm water; which the sister infirmarian
                  having brought, she put her feet into it, and immediately withdrew them, observing
                  that the water was too hot; but her attendant insisting that it was not too warm,
                  she returned her feet into the vessel, and kept them there as long as she was
                  required, although it caused her intense pain, and produced an inflammation, from
                  which she suffered for a long time after." By such "assiduous practices of the
                  virtues of her state," we are told, "she soon became ripe for heaven."
               In July, 1813, the society was regularly organized, eighteen individuals taking
                  upon themselves the vows of "poverty,
                  chastity, and obedience." Meantime, large additions were made, and continued to be
                  made, to the buildings and conveniences of the establishment. The asylum, in which
                  about fifty orphans, as near as I can judge, are now kept, was the next building
                  erected. It was at first occupied by the community. A marble tablet in the wall of
                  a room in this building marks the spot where the bed of Mother Seton stood, and
                  where she died.
               Although at this early period the natural fruits of the system were produced in
                  the suffering, sickness, and death of the inmates, carrying out the idea which, as
                  I have already had occasion to observe, is still inculcated—that "consumption is a
                  part of the vocation of the sisters"—yet it seems that the system failed then, as
                  it does now, of producing that superior sanctity of life and character which are
                  perpetually claimed as its result. So much may at least be inferred from the
                  following extract from an address of Mrs. Seton, who was now called the Mother
                  Superior, to her sisters in profession: "How is it," she asks, "that many of us
                  keep the rule as to the letter of it, and also look pious enough? There is no want
                  of good will, nor idleness indulged; and in a house where it would seem so easy to
                  become saints, you would say, What is the matter? Why are we not saints? Why is
                  there so little progress in perfection? Or, rather, why are so many tepid,
                     heavy, discouraged, and going along MORE LIKE SLAVES IN A WORK-HOUSE
                  than children in their own homes, and the house of their Father?" The answer would
                  seem easy for any one at all acquainted with the spirit of Gospel obedience:
                  Because the position, and the relations, and the occupations pertaining to this
                  unnatural mode of life are such as Heaven has not chosen to ordain and bless for
                  the religious development and sanctification of human souls.
               One morning, meeting after mass a young sister who had been absent from the
                  service, Mother Seton looked her steadfastly in the face, and asked, "Why did you
                  not come to our Lord for a recompense this morning?" "Mother," answered the
                  sister, "I felt a little weak, and took a cup of coffee before mass." "Ah! my dear
                  child!" said Mother Seton, "how could you sell your God for a miserable cup of
                  coffee?" Nothing, it has been well said, weakens the moral sense more than
                  hair-breadth distinctions and minute observances. Mother Seton's life for a series
                  of years was full of these. She rivaled the Hindoos in self-mortification. She
                  would deny herself fine writing paper, and for pens she used the stumps of quills
                  abandoned by her pupils.
               Another death soon succeeded in the institution: it was that of the Mother
                  Superior's second daughter, a lovely girl in her fourteenth year. In her last
                  moments she cried to her confessor, "Father, is there any harm to hope that I
                  shall go to heaven as soon as I am dead?" He replied, not if that hope was
                  grounded on her own merits. "What merits," she cried, "can such a child as I
                  have?" So little comfort can the contemplation of our own good works afford in the
                  dying hour! Again she exclaimed, "I hope that my sufferings will be accepted as my
                  penance without going to Purgatory. Oh! how I would like to go to
                     heaven!"
               
               In 1816 two more of the sisters died; one, only twenty-one years of age, brought
                  up in luxury in the West Indies, and whose delicate hands often bled from exposure
                  during the winter in performing the work allotted to her. The following year
                  witnessed the death of four more of the sisters, and the next year three more. How
                  the austerities which hastened the deaths of so many young persons affected the
                  health of the Mother Superior herself, may be inferred from the following
                  confession, in a letter of hers to the Rev. M. Bruté: "Rules, prudence,
                  subjection, opinions, etc., are dreadful walls to a burning soul wild as mine. For
                  me, I am like a fiery horse I had when a girl, whom they tried to break by making
                  him drag a heavy cart; and the poor beast was so humbled that he could never more
                  be inspired by whips or caresses, and wasted to a skeleton till he died!" Mrs.
                  Seton's death occurred in 1820.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               THE FEAST OF CORPUS CHRISTI.
               BEFORE reaching the closing circumstances of my stay at St. Joseph's, I may pause
                  to describe the ceremonies performed at that institution in commemoration of a
                  festival of peculiar solemnity which was celebrated during my residence there. It
                  was the day of Corpus Christi, or the Feast of the Blessed Sacrament, termed,
                  according to the tenets of the Roman Catholic Church, the Body of Christ.
               On the morning of that day the sisterhood assembled in the community-room and
                  novitiate, and, at the sound of the bell, formed themselves in the "rank," and
                  walked in procession to the chapel. Each sister held in one hand her chaplet
                  beads, and in the other a candle taken from a box near the door as she went out.
                  During this space of time all were engaged in saying, in a low tone, the "Ave
                  Maria."
               Arriving in the chapel, after the usual ceremony of kissing the back of the seats
                  before them, a chant was commenced by the choir; and the Superior, attended by two
                  other Lazarists, entered the sanctuary, clothed in rich and costly vestments. The
                  altar had been splendidly decorated for the occasion, and the statue of the Virgin
                  wreathed with flowers. The Host was
                  then for a moment elevated and exposed to view; then it was veiled from sight with
                  a covering, on which was inscribed, in Latin, "Behold the Lamb of God."
               After the saying of a few prayers, one of the priests took the sacrament and
                  advanced to the railing which separates the sanctuary from the chapel. There he
                  was joined by the others in attendance. Several altar-boys raised above the heads
                  of the priests a magnificent canopy. The choir again commenced a solemn chant. The
                  sacristan then advanced from the sacristy, and lighted the candle held by that one
                  of the sisters who sat at the end of the nearest bench. The next sister then
                  lighted her candle by means of her neighbor's, and so on, until the whole number
                  had done likewise, and all the candles were lighted in the hands of the kneeling
                  sisters.
               This completed, the priests, carrying the Host, with the canopy elevated above
                  them, marched slowly down the aisle, while every head was bowed in silent
                  adoration. When they had reached the door, a rap was given by the Mother Superior,
                  upon which the whole assemblage, after kissing the seats as usual, rose and walked
                  in procession, each sister with her lighted candle, the choir accompanying them
                  and chanting, in which the priests joined.
               The procession crossed the Superior's garden and the adjacent grounds to a small
                  and beautiful chapel,*
                   which the priests entered, placing the sacrament upon the altar while the
                  "Benediction" was sung. During this period the sisters knelt upon the ground,
                  kissing the earth as they knelt and before they rose. The sacrament was then taken
                  from this chapel, and the procession moved on to that of St. Joseph, which is
                  situated in another part of the grounds, called "The Sisters' Garden," or the
                  community-ground. "Benediction" was sung here also, and the same form was observed
                  as before, both in and out of the chapel. Then the sacrament was carried through
                  the community-room and the novitiate, a path being formed in one of the rooms,
                  bordered with rose-leaves and evergreens, through which the procession walked.
               
                  
                  *This is a small chapel in the boarders' play-grounds, called the Chapel of
                     Sister Bernardine, it being built by her when she was directress in the
                     academy by donations obtained from the scholars.
               
               After crossing the corridor and entering the chapel of the institution, the
                  ceremonies were there ended with a benediction. The lights were extinguished, and,
                  after the usual form of kissing the seats in front of each, and repeating a few
                  prayers, the community once more arranged themselves in the rank and proceeded to
                  their respective rooms.
               The boarders of the institution followed in the rear of the procession of sisters
                  throughout the whole of these imposing ceremonies.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLII.
               A SECOND LETTER FROM HOME.
               A SECOND letter was at length received at the institution on the—th of September,
                  1854, from my relatives, and upon its receipt I was ordered to appear before the
                  mistress of novices. Kneeling at her feet, I listened to the letter as she read it
                  aloud. It was from my sister. She stated that she would come for me in a few days,
                  and that I must return home with her.
               This information excited greatly the displeasure of the mistress of novices.
                  Having finished its perusal, she seized me with a tight grasp by the arm, saying,
                  "Do you think you will ever return home?" I answered that I did not
                  know, and began to tremble violently, as well with agitation as with dread, such
                  is the awe that an official inspires at the institution. This enraged her. She
                  struck me upon the forehead, and, roughly thrusting me from her, she ordered me to
                  go and kneel before the altar of St. Joseph at one end of the room, and repeat
                  some prayers as a penance.
               I obeyed mechanically, but no prayer, no tears came to relieve my feelings; cold
                  and almost stupefied, I remained motionless as the statue before which I was bent.
                  An hour and more passed ere I was roused from my stupor; but a stormy conflict was
                  raging within my breast. The agonizing consciousness had a second time with
                  terrible force come upon me that I was eternally severed from all that made life
                  dear.
               The bell rang for meditation in the chapel, and this call I must obey. Had it been
                  some other kind of punishment that was allotted me, this would have given
                  variation to my employment, and relieved the fatigue; but the signal only called
                  me to renew the exhausting effort of maintaining for a long time the same painful
                  posture. I rose, took my place in the rank, and repaired to the chapel, where
                  another hour was spent on my knees in prayer and meditation, as far as bodily
                  constraint and mental distress would permit the exercise of thought.
               A week elapsed, and on Sunday I asked permission to reply to the letter received
                  from my friends. As it was a day usually appropriated in part to the writing of
                  letters—which, however, must be written after high mass, and submitted to the
                  inspection of the Mother Superior, by whom they are forwarded at her pleasure—I
                  had some hope of obtaining my request. But permission was denied me, with an
                  assurance that it would be but a loss of time, and useless for me to do so. I was
                  ordered to the refectory for the purpose of cleaning knives and forks. I had been
                  but a short time engaged in this employment, when the "religieuse" who had charge
                  of this department suddenly rushed toward me, and seizing the knife I was
                  cleaning, drew it through my hand, commencing an angry rebuke for some pretended fault, and threatening to
                  report me. This unprovoked cruelty so startled me, already enfeebled as I was by
                  severe labor and protracted fatigue, that I fell in a spasm on the floor, striking
                  my head against a bench. A young novice, who had seen me fall, dragged me into the
                  passage, supported my head, and sent another to report to an officer my situation.
                  Before the officer came I had revived, and was proceeding down the corridor, aided
                  by two sisters, when I met her. She conveyed me to the infirmary, asking me, at
                  the same time, what was the matter. Fearing to tell her, I remained silent; but as
                  she insisted on an answer, I related to her the occurrence. She made no reply, and
                  did not seem to entertain much sympathy for me. She left me on a bed in the
                  infirmary, but soon after returned, and made me get up and go back to my work in
                  the refectory.
               I ought to say that a sister must obtain permission to write on the Saturday
                  preceding; should she fail to do this, it is not allowed her to ask the privilege.
                  But often, when this is done, the request is refused, and the petitioner is told
                  that it would be "a loss of time." I have more than once received this answer. All
                  letters written by the sisters are given to the mistress of novices for her
                  perusal. Many of them never reach their destination, being destroyed by her on the
                  spot. Others are sent to the Superior's room, but the writers never know what
                  becomes of them. I have seen the mistress of novices engaged in reading and
                  tearing to pieces letters which have been sent to the novitiate, but were never
                  destined to reach those who perhaps were anxiously awaiting their arrival at
                  home.
               Many a time have I seen sisters kneeling before the mistress of novices, the tears
                  streaming from their eyes as they listened to letters read by her, but which they
                  were not permitted to hold in their own hands, nor look at, to trace the beloved
                  characters of a mother's or a sister's writing.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               MORTALITY AND DEATH AT ST. JOSEPH'S.
               IT is on all hands acknowledged that the life of monastic and conventual
                  establishments is most unfavorable to bodily health. Those even who are chiefly
                  interested in upholding these institutions make no attempt to conceal the fact. On
                  the contrary, I have shown, and of this farther evidence will be given hereafter,
                  that from the very outset the system adopted at St. Joseph's has been disastrous
                  and fatal in the extreme, so far as sickness, disease, and death are evidences of
                  its workings. In the second year after the foundation of the society, which
                  commenced with only eighteen members, three of them died; in 1816, two more; the
                  following year, four; and the next, three. I have already testified that, within
                  the ten months of my sojourn at St. Joseph's, no fewer than fourteen deaths, to my
                  personal knowledge, occurred. Nor does the Mother Superior, in her remarkable
                  letter written after my escape, controvert this point; she maintains only that
                  this excessive mortality is the result of the pious and charitable exertions to
                  which the sisters devote themselves in attending hospitals and ministering to the
                  sick. I leave it for an impartial judgment to decide whether it may not much more
                  rationally be ascribed to the exhausting and depressing effects of unremitted and
                  laborious servile "duties" and devotional exercises, the forms and attitudes of
                  which resemble rather the varieties of torture than the employments of Christian
                  meditation and worship. I leave it for a candid discrimination to say whether such
                  be not the inevitable result of protracted and reiterated vigils, of exposure to a
                  damp and chilly atmosphere, of mental excitement fed by superstitious fears and
                  apprehensions, of unnatural severment from all the attachments of life, and
                  seclusion under perpetual restraints.
               I myself, while a member of the community, was often sick, worn down and utterly
                  prostrated by the services daily and uninterruptedly required of me. Even while
                  engaged in performing the duties, comparatively lighter, which were enjoined upon
                  me as a teacher in the academy, it would frequently happen that the lassitude of
                  body and mind became almost insupportable. In addition to instructing a class of
                  pupils in the French language, and teaching others in music, I was required to
                  perform a similar task for such of the novices as evinced any talent for vocal or
                  instrumental music, in order that the vacancies occurring from time to time in the
                  choir might be appropriately supplied. I have often sat for hours, without a
                  moment's intermission or rest, at the piano, and after that have been occupied at
                  work in the refectory or other departments.
               If illness and a shattered constitution—the ordinary and necessary results of such
                  a system*
                  —had been
                     
                     *The Rev. M. Hobart Seymour, a distinguished clergyman of the English Church,
                        stated in a lecture some time since, that a gentleman, high in official
                        position at Rome, who had been a visitor with the Cardinal Vicar in the
                        various nunneries of that city, gave him the following facts from his own
                        positive knowledge. He remarked that, "entering these nunneries at the early
                        age of sixteen or eighteen, for a few years the nuns seemed sufficiently
                        happy; but that afterward, having discovered the extent of the step they had
                        taken, some of them pined, and drooped, and withered, and died; while
                        others, struggling against it for a time, in the end gave way to despair,
                        and died of madness. He stated that, of his own experience, the
                           majority of these young nuns DIED DERANGED BEFORE TWENTY-FIVE
                        YEARS OF AGE!"—Lecture at Bath, England, June 7th, 1852.
                     In the concluding portion of this volume we shall have occasion to give the
                        statement of an unimpeachable witness, the excellent Dr. De Sanctis, now a
                        minister of the Waldensian Church in Piedmont, but formerly a Roman Catholic
                        priest of distinction, curate of the Magdalene at Rome, and confessor at a
                        number of convents in that city. In a communication made expressly for the
                        present work, he gives it as the result of personal observation, that "a
                        very large proportion of the nuns die in their youth; and a great part of
                        the rest drag a miserable existence in continual disease and suffering."
                   the only suffering
                  brought upon me by the endurance of these inflictions, I might still be an inmate
                  of St. Joseph's—an unwilling inmate, doubtless, since I had become thoroughly
                  convinced of my own mistake in entering that institution. But this alone would not
                  have proved sufficient to impel me to the desperate venture of an attempt to
                  escape from its walls. I call it a desperate venture, because the failure to
                  accomplish my object would have been attended with the most bitter consequences.
                  But other apprehensions were combined with those of bodily suffering to impel me
                  in this effort to flee from a place the atmosphere of which was dangerous and
                  contaminating.
               I entered the institution of St. Joseph's under the complacent impression and
                  belief that among the "Sisters ters of Charity" I should find an entire
                  devotedness, a pure and unselfish dedication to the service of the Almighty. I had
                  heard and read so much of their pious lives, their earnest efforts to comfort the
                  afflicted, relieve the sick, and console the dying, that I entertained the most
                  exalted ideas of their Christian perfection. During the short time of my visit as
                  a visitor, my limited observation, together with the assurances of the Superior,
                  confirmed these favorable sentiments, and I became a member of the community,
                  prepared, under circumstances the most propitious, to look upon every thing with
                  an admiring eye. Gradually this illusion was dissipated. The rose tint gave place
                  to the sombre hue of the reality; my golden anticipations one by one were
                  falsified; and the ardent enthusiasm with which I entered, from fever heat cooled
                  down to zero.
               I had no doubt that the great number of individuals in the sisterhood were
                  perfectly sincere and conscientious in the practice of their devotions and the
                  discharge of their duties. But among these, so much superstition, weakness, and
                  folly prevailed as to excite contempt, or at least pity. The idolatrous worship of
                  the Virgin Mary was carried to such a pitch as could not fail to shock a mind that
                  retained any vestige of scriptural belief and conviction.*
                  The respect
                     
                     *The impulse that has been given of late years by the Romish priesthood to
                        what they call "the devotion to Mary," has carried that worship to an excess
                        and exaggeration almost inconceivable. Connected with this increase of a
                        blasphemous homage is an endeavor to represent the Virgin Mary as, in a
                        peculiar sense, the DEITY of women, and, of course, especially
                        of nuns. Thus the famous M. de Genoude, one of the most eminent
                        ecclesiastics of the Romish Church in France, has expressed this tendency in
                        these remarkable words: "MARY was the repairer of Eve's
                           offense, even as OUR LORD was the repairer of the offense of
                              Adam!" ("Marie fut la réparatrice de la faute d'Eve, comme
                        Notre-Seigneur fut le réparateur de la faute d'Adam."——Tableau
                           historique du premier siècle de l' eglise.) Another writer, M.
                        Oswald, professor of theology in the Roman Catholic Seminary of Paderborn,
                        in Germany, makes the following more full statement of the same idea: "Mary
                        was not a human creature like ourselves; she was The Woman, as
                        Christ was The Man. The work of redemption revolves upon two
                        names—Jesus Christ, the God-Man, and Mary, the Virgin-Mother of God.
                        For this reason we are disposed to erect by the side of Christology
                           a Marialogy, of which this should be the creed: I believe in Mary,
                        born without sin, and exempt from faults throughout her entire life; the
                        Virgin-Mother of the Lord by the grace of God, and at the same time by her
                        own free consent; co-operating, although in dependence upon her divine Son,
                        in the act of redemption; performing therein a part without which the work
                        of Jesus Christ would not be complete; the dispenser, in the Church, of
                        certain graces which, though ultimately owing to the merits of Jesus Christ,
                        are found nevertheless in a certain causal dependence upon her active
                        participation in the redemption of man. She occupies this place in the
                        quality of spiritual mother of the human kind, and as special
                           representative of her sex in the work of
                           reparation."—(Marialogie dogmatique, 1850, p. 1,
                        2.)
                     But there is a deeper abyss of absurdity and blasphemy to which these
                        worshipers of the Virgin Mary descend. "We assert," says M. Oswald, "that
                        Mary is co-present in the Eucharist; this is an inevitable
                        consequence of our Marianic theory, and we do not shrink from
                        any of its consequences. If Mary, as Mother of God, took a real part in our
                        redemption, this part, in order that it might not be lost, must have been
                        bequeathed to the Church by its Founder, and must be transmitted in the
                        Eucharist. It is needless to add, that, in accordance with the eucharistic
                        doctrine of the Church, this presence of Mary in the Eucharist is veritable
                        and real, not simply ideal or figurative. Women receive more in the
                           Eucharist than do men. They receive, in addition to the grace of Jesus
                           Christ, which is common to all, a supplement of Marianic
                           grace!"—(Marialogie, etc., p. 176, foll.)
                     As a single specimen of the nature of the supplications addressed to the
                        Virgin Mary which are put in the mouths of the multitudes under the
                        spiritual care of the Romish priests, we give the following extract of a
                        prayer which is in use at Rome, and is accompanied by the promise of "an
                        indulgence of one hundred years, granted by the supreme pontiffs Gregory XV.
                        and Clement XII." It begins thus: "O purest and most immaculate ever-Virgin
                        Mary! Daughter of the Everlasting Father, Mother of the Everlasting
                           Son, Spouse of the Holy Ghost! August and living Temple of the Most Holy
                           Trinity! Jewel of purity, spotless mirror," etc., etc.
                   spect paid to
                  pictures and images, though designed, according to the doctrines of the Roman
                  Catholic Church, to serve for the simple direction of the mind to a devout
                  contemplation of their subjects, is here practiced in a manner that savors of the
                  grossest idolatry. To give a solitary instance: I have spoken of the statue of St.
                  Vincent, the founder of the order, which stands in the Superior's garden, where
                  sometimes we were permitted to work. This figure is held in special estimation. No
                  one passed it without a lowly obeisance, and I have often heard it addressed as a
                  living being. Many of the sisters would approach it timidly, with hands clasped in
                  the attitude of prayer, and, after a profound salutation, exclaim, in beseeching
                  tones, "Pray for me, father!"
               The old or "professed sisters," whose physical constitution has enabled them to
                  pass through the ordeal of years, are treated with much more leniency, and lead an
                  easier life than the novices. Many of those who are rather advanced in age occupy
                  their own rooms, where they are served by the younger sisters, and are not
                  compelled strictly to attend to all the services. In the community-room they
                  sometimes have "parties," with music and refreshments, to which the priests are
                     invited.*
                   On such occasions, some of the younger sisters are admitted, or allowed a
                   share in the
                      
                      *At Rome they act comedies and tragedies in the
                         convents. See De Sanctis' letter appended to this work.
                    delicacies provided,
                  although, for the most part, it is their duty to prepare them. Of occurrences in
                  the community-room I can, however, give no minute particulars from personal
                  observation, as the "seminary sisters" are not allowed to enter that apartment
                  unless summoned to the presence of the Superior, or sent thither with a message;
                  but enough is known outside to excite sorrow and disgust.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               NO BIBLE.
               IT is well known to every one at all conversant with ecclesiastical history that
                  the perusal of the Scriptures by the laity has at all times been discouraged, and
                  on repeated occasions forbidden by the Roman Catholic hierarchy.*
                   When charged with this criminal withholding
                  
                     
                     *This fact, plain and obvious as it is to the reader of history, tells with
                        such power upon the unscriptural character of the Romish system, that the
                        priests can only meet it with an audacious denial. In this country,
                        especially, they do not hesitate to say that the Church of Rome gives full
                        liberty to read the Bible and encourages its use, forbidding only the
                        perusal of a Protestant translation. The means of answering so barefaced a
                        falsehood are not always at hand in a popular discussion, and thus they
                        often succeed in producing the desired impression upon the minds of the
                        uninformed. We shall give here in brief a few statements illustrative of the
                        treatment that the Bible has received at the hands of the supreme pontiffs
                        of that Church, to say nothing of the Bible-burnings and confiscations that
                        occur so frequently in our own day in Roman Catholic countries, where no
                        attempt is made to conceal the enmity of Romanism for the word of God.
                     The Council of Trent—to go no farther back—declared its anathema against any
                        one who should read the Bible without a license from his bishop or
                        inquisitor, that license to be founded on a certificate from his confessor
                        that he is in no danger of receiving injury from so doing.
                     Pope Pius VII., in 1816, denounces in a special bull the Bible Society, and
                        expresses himself "shocked" by the circulation of the Scriptures, which he
                        characterizes as a "most crafty device, by which the very foundations of
                        religion are undermined;" a "pestilence," which it behooves him "to remedy
                        and abolish;" "a defilement of the faith, eminently dangerous to souls." He
                        congratulates the primate to whom his letter is addressed on the zeal he had
                        shown "to detect and overthrow the impious machinations of these
                        innovators;" and represents it as an episcopal duty to expose "the
                        wickedness of their nefarious scheme," and openly to publish that "the Bible
                        printed by heretics is to be numbered among other prohibited books,
                        conformably to the rules of the Index; for it is evident from experience
                        that the Holy Scriptures, when circulated in the vulgar tongue,
                        have, through the temerity of men, produced more harm than
                           benefit."
                     The same pope issued in 1819 a bull on the subject of the circulation of the
                        Scriptures in the Irish schools. He speaks of this as a "sowing of tares,"
                        and that the children are thereby infected with the "fatal poison of
                           depraved doctrines;" and exhorts the Irish bishops to endeavor to
                        prevent the wheat from being "choked by the tares."
                     In 1824, Pope Leo XII. published an encyclical letter, in which he adverts
                        to a certain society, vulgarly called the Bible Society, as spreading itself
                        throughout the whole world, and goes on to term the Protestant Bible the
                        "Gospel of the Devil."
                     The late Pope Gregory XVI., in his encyclical letter, after referring to the
                        decree of the Council of Trent already mentioned, ratifies that and all
                        similar enactments of the Church in these terms: "Moreover, we confirm and
                        renew the decrees recited above, delivered in former times by apostolic
                        authority, against the publication, distribution, reading, and
                           possessing of books of the Holy Scriptures translated into the vulgar
                           tongue."
                   holding of God's word from men, it is sometimes
                  alleged, by way of excuse, that in former times the ignorance of the people was an
                  obstacle to the right understanding of the precepts and doctrines of the Bible,
                  and also that the scarcity and high price of copies of the Scriptures prevented
                  their circulation. This apology may be readily admitted with reference to that
                  period of which the assertion is true; but it should be observed that even in the
                  present enlightened age, no encouragement is held out in countries where Romanism
                  predominates for the examination of that holy book, nor is even the erroneous
                  translation of it which has been sanctioned by the authorities of the Church of
                  Rome freely circulated for popular perusal. But in the United States no such
                  predominancy enables the priesthood to expel the Scriptures from publicity, and
                  here, accordingly, the charge is indignantly denied, and the assertion is
                  exultingly made that the Bible is kept at all the Catholic book-stores, and all
                  Catholics are at liberty to purchase and read it. Without entering upon a
                  discussion of this statement, I will only appeal to Catholics themselves to answer
                  truly whether their priests or confessors are in the habit of recommending the
                  habitual study of the Scriptures to them individually. The fact that no such
                  reference or direction is habitually made by the priesthood to the oracles of God
                  sufficiently proves their indifference, if not their hostility to it.
               During the whole period of my connection with the Church of Rome, no such
                  instruction or counsel was given me by my spiritual director; and while a resident
                  at St. Joseph's I never saw a Bible, and I had frequent access to the
                  library. My own testimony would certainly go to confirm the general statement, the
                  correctness of which is corroborated by the entire policy of Romanism, to subject
                  the people to the control of the clergy. Apprehensive lest the frequent and
                  unrestrained study of the sacred Scriptures would prove a serious antagonism to
                  their efforts for enslaving the mind, the priests carefully abstain from
                  encouraging their dissemination wherever they do not dare to oppose it openly.
                  Another consideration doubtless acts upon them. Some of the peculiar dogmas mas of Romanism, such as that of
                  Purgatory and that respecting indulgences, are effectual means of augmenting the
                  revenues of the Church; and these subjects of belief are so flimsily supported
                  even by their own interpretation of Scripture, that they would be rejected if
                  examined by every intelligent student of the holy volume.
               The books permitted and recommended for reading at St. Joseph's are the "Lives of
                  the Saints," extracts from the "Roman Martyrology" and the "Conferences." These
                  last are a compilation of rules and regulations to be observed by the Order of
                  Sisters of Charity, as prepared by their founder, St. Vincent. They contain much
                  matter not suitable for edification, nor calculated to promote purity of
                  thought.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               A DREAM OF FREEDOM.
               IN a former part of this narrative I have made allusion to the careful prevention
                  of confidential intercourse between members of the community. The regulations
                  enjoining silence, except at a certain hour, are strictly enforced; and even at
                  that period conversation is allowed only on permitted subjects and in the presence
                  of superiors. For two sisters to engage in private interchange of thought would be
                  an offense which, if known, would unavoidably be visited with severe punishment.
                  The want of some sympathizing friend to whom I might unburden my feelings and
                  sufferings, or to whom, in turn, I might afford consolation and support, was
                  bitterly felt. Outward signs of the mental conflict must imperatively be
                  suppressed. When almost overwhelmed with sensations of utter desolation, I was
                  forced to veil, by a powerful effort, my wretchedness. The death-like pallor of
                  the countenance, and often the traces of tears that could not be restrained, would
                  perhaps betray the agony of soul. But I must be calm and collected in manner, and
                  breathe no syllable that might express my misery. Every native impulse of the
                  heart, every prompting of affection, every thought of sympathy and kindness, must be subdued and silenced: such, it
                  is thought, is the duty of all who would render themselves worthy to wear the
                  "holy habit."
               Often have I gazed from my window upon the picturesque grounds that environed my
                  prison. How green and beautiful the trees, their slender branches bending in the
                  vesper breeze! The rose of lovely tint, and the many flowers embosomed in the long
                  waving grass—I could not enjoy their sweetness; not even was it lawful for me to
                  inhale at will their delicious perfume, wafted by the breeze that fanned my cheek,
                  once glowing with health and animation, but now marked with the traces of
                  suffering and sorrow.
               Ever and anon my listless gaze would wander over the distant landscape. Before me
                  were the mountains, in all their majestic beauty, the western sun, as it set,
                  pouring a flood of golden light upon the dense foliage that covered their summits;
                  and then, as a caged bird dashing against the bars of its prison-house with strong
                  desire to gain its native wild-wood, even so did I yearn to escape from the walls
                  that surrounded me, to roam free and unfettered over those mountain sides,
                  reveling in those sunbeams, or quietly resting in the shade of those towering
                  trees. But I must banish these thoughts—repel the wish to gaze upon and enjoy the
                  beauties of nature. What have I to do with earth? What to me is that world which I
                  have renounced forever? For me the interest of natural life is irrevocably closed,
                  and now, by devoting my existence to the service of God in the holy seclusion of
                  the cloister, I shall purchase heaven! By a life of poverty, suffering, prayer,
                  and penance, win the smile of the holy Virgin and her divine Son! Yes, I will
                  welcome those pains and miseries to save my soul, though they destroy my body. But
                  can not heaven be gained without such a sacrifice? The way is dark and difficult.
                  What now is left me? a lonely heart, a weary life, a disappointed hope. O God!
                  teach my spirit to be resigned to Thy most holy will.
               Scenes of other days now pass in rapid review before me. Alas! that memory should
                  add its pangs, recalling years that have forever fled, hours that I would fain
                  forget, moments of thrilling rapture, from whose fond contemplation my vows debar
                  me now.
               Scenes of more recent date, with all their blighting woe, come to agonize my
                  heart, yet bleeding with former reflections: a mother's loss, never to be made up,
                  never to be alleviated by the consolations of paternal and sisterly affection;
                  expostulations and gentle warnings disregarded, under the infatuation of a
                  deceived and misguided zeal. Well is it now that little time is allowed for such
                  remembrances. Let me return to the care and weariness of my bondage, and forget
                  the past.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               MY ESCAPE.
               CONSCIOUS that I was a guarded prisoner at St. Joseph's, I now determined, in
                  secresy if possible, to escape. But could I hope to leave the institution
                  undiscovered during the day? It was impossible, since no one is suffered even to
                  enter or leave a room without express command or obtained permission, and spies
                  are known to be placed in all parts of the building, though individually
                  recognizable as such by none but the Superior.
               Considerable time had elapsed since the forming of this resolution without the
                  offering of any special facility to realize the scheme. Finally, I determined to
                  delay no longer, but make an attempt at once. At first I was at a loss what course
                  to decide upon when once I should be outside the walls of the institution. The
                  town of Emmettsburg was but a quarter of a mile distant, and I could easily reach
                  it; but I knew that a large proportion of the inhabitants were Catholics, and that
                  I should run the risk of being discovered and sent back to the community. The
                  "house" of the Lazarists was also located there, between which and St. Joseph's
                  there was constant communication, and the probability of an encounter on the road
                  with some member of the order occurred to my mind. In view of these
                  considerations, I decided that it would be more prudent to proceed to Frederick
                  City. I resolved, accordingly, to seek egress from the building about two hours
                  after midnight, in order that I might catch the stage from Emmettsburg to that
                  place, which passed at about four o'clock in the morning. This resolution was
                  taken on the evening preceding my departure, while sitting at the window of my
                  cell for a few minutes before the ringing of the bell for evening prayers. I had
                  been detained from supper until late, in consequence of having been appointed to
                  take charge of the music-rooms (a duty ordinarily discharged by a vowed sister)
                  while the sisterhood were at their meal, and when I arrived at the refectory
                  nearly every one had left. I took advantage of the opportunity and secured a
                  knife, which I concealed about my person, with the full determination to use it,
                  if my strength should permit, in self-defense, should I be stopped or overtaken on
                  the road; for I was now desperate, and the bare idea of failure filled me with
                  terror.
               While seated at the window revolving my plan, as my head rested against the
                  casement, and the chill night air blew in upon me (though for this I cared not,
                  being familiar with suffering and exposure to cold), I was startled from my
                  meditations by the deep tolling of the convent bell calling to prayers. Hastily
                  composing my features, and effacing the traces of tears from my countenance, I
                  rose to obey its summons for the last time, as I fondly hoped. While crossing the
                  corridor on my way to the novitiate, I was accosted by an old sister, who
                  delivered to me an order with which she
                  had been intrusted, requiring that I should sweep out all the music-rooms at an
                  early hour in the morning. I showed her my hand, which I carried in a sling, the
                  thumb having been opened to the bone but a few days before to cure a whitlow, and
                  told her that I should hardly be able to perform the duty. Saying that the order
                  was imperative, she left me, and I proceeded to the chapel, not, it may be
                  presumed, with any purpose of sweeping out the music-rooms the next morning;
                  instead of which, I hoped to be breathing the fresh air of heaven, and exulting in
                  the sense of freedom and deliverance from the horrors of a "living death."
               About an hour passed by after the conclusion of the evening devotions, and all the
                  sisters had retired to their cells. Suffering exceedingly from thirst, I resolved,
                  though it was contrary to the rules for a novice to drink after the ringing of the
                  silence-bell, to procure a draught of water, and at the same time to see whether
                  the key of a door leading from a passage across the porch to the infirmary was in
                  the lock. I accomplished my purpose without discovery, but the key had been
                  removed. Returning to my cell, I lay down on my bed to obtain some rest before the
                  appointed hour; but I was too anxious to sleep, and trembled and shivered upon my
                  couch until the cry of the watchman, who has charge of the establishment at night,
                  announced that it was two o'clock. A few minutes after I arose, put on my habit,
                  placing the beads in my pocket, lest they should rattle as I walked along, and
                  then waited for the watchman's cry of "three o'clock." Upon hearing that signal I
                  left my cell, doing ing so for the first time without making my bed, and groped my
                  way through the darkness down the stairs and along the cloisters, all the while
                  attentively listening to detect any noise. All was silent save the slight sound of
                  my footsteps on the paved floor. Descending a narrow flight of stairs, I proceeded
                  along a dark passage, at the extremity of which there were other steps leading to
                  the chapel. I preferred to attempt my escape in this part of the building for the
                  reason that there was no inclosure immediately outside of it. Having gained the
                  chapel door, I was forced to pause and rest for a few moments to gain composure;
                  for I was trembling violently, and almost suffocated by the impetuous and
                  convulsive throbbings of my heart. There was no time to be lost, however; so,
                  taking courage, I ran across the chapel, and, guided by a faint gleam of moonlight
                  through the crevices, climbed up to a window, opened it, and leaped to the
                  pavement below. I looked around and listened, but no living object was visible,
                  and no sound broke the stillness. The watchman at the building had gone in, but
                  there was another stationed at the gate, whose vigilance I would have to elude. I
                  could not stop, however, to reflect, but fled rapidly down the avenue. When about
                  half way, I heard a slight noise, and approaching nearer, perceived, to my dismay,
                  that the watchman had raised the window of his room, and was leaning from it, as
                  though suspicious of something wrong. My heart sank within me, and for a moment I
                  was literally paralyzed with fear. But I soon succeeded in concealing myself
                  behind a tree, and remained there for some time, anxiously awaiting the withdrawal
                  of the watchman from his post of
                  observation. There was another mode of egress from the grounds, by a path through
                  the grave-yard, where from my station I could see the white crosses gleaming in
                  the moonlight. But this would take me in a direction opposite to that which I
                  intended to follow; and fearing lest I might become confused and lose my way, I
                  resolved to wait where I was.
               Another grievous disappointment was in store for me. While at my hiding-place, the
                  stage for Frederick City, in which I had trusted to obtain a seat, passed by, and
                  with it all my sanguine anticipations vanished, and for an instant despair took
                  possession of my faculties. I became partly reassured, however, when I joyfully
                  observed that the watchman, as if satisfied by the passing of the stage, had
                  closed the window and retired. I quickly passed through the gate into the road,
                  feeling that my object was at least half accomplished, the chief obstacle being
                  already surmounted.
               I had walked but a short distance in the direction taken by the stage when,
                  approaching a bridge which I was obliged to cross, I saw in the shadow the figure
                  of a man. At this sight my courage again faltered, for I felt assured that, should
                  he prove a Catholic, and suspect from my garb who I was, he would attempt to carry
                  me back by force; but drawing my shawl closely around me, to conceal as much as
                  possible my "habit," I pulled my dark bonnet farther over my face, and grasping
                  the knife as firmly as my wounded hand would allow, I walked boldly past without
                  being accosted. About a mile and a half farther on, hearing the voices of a party
                  of men who were coming toward me, I entered a gate that opened on the road, and
                  knelt behind the inclosure till they had gone by. I was on the point of again
                  proceeding upon my way, after waiting some minutes to make sure that the road was
                  clear, when sounds of fighting and cries of "murder" from a house near by caused
                  me to shrink back in alarm to my hiding-place. There I remained until I heard the
                  Angelus ring at St. Joseph's. I knew then that it was six o'clock; and conscious
                  that I had no time to lose, I re-entered the road and prosecuted my journey with
                  as much speed as my tired limbs could effect.
               I had walked a considerable distance, and began to experience great fatigue, when,
                  seeing a woman near a house on the road-side, I ventured to address her, asking
                  "how far it was to Frederick City." "Twenty-two miles," was her answer. I inquired
                  if I could obtain a conveyance thither. Without deigning a reply to my question,
                  she asked me where I came from, and on my telling her "from Emmettsburg," advised
                  me in a peremptory tone to "go back, and start from there." Then turning to a
                  young man who came out of the house, she whispered to him for a few moments, when
                  he immediately started in the direction of the institution.
               Convinced from her conduct that the woman was a Catholic, and entertained some
                  suspicion of my being a fugitive from the sisterhood; confident, too, that she had
                  dispatched the young man to give information concerning me, I turned away, and
                  continued my journey. But I was now afraid to proceed on the main road, lest I should be overtaken, and more afraid
                  to leave it, lest I should lose my way. After crossing a creek—Owning's Creek I
                  think it is called—I arrived about nine o'clock at a small village, which a
                  sign-post informed me was Creagerstown. I had walked a distance of ten miles. On
                  inquiring for the principal house of entertainment in the place, I was directed to
                  Stevens's Hotel, the proprietor of which, at that time, with a noble kindness and
                  generous hospitality that acted like a soothing balm upon my wounded spirit, and
                  for which I shall ever be grateful, accorded me the shelter of his house, and
                  assured me of the protection of his arm until the arrival of my father, to whom I
                  instantly wrote, informing him of the circumstances of my escape.
               None but those who have felt, after some overwhelming sorrow that threatened to
                  obscure every future prospect, the first cheering rays of hope breaking through
                  the clouds—none but those who, deprived of all sympathy and protection, exposed to
                  evil designs and unscrupulous schemes against their peace and purity, without a
                  glimpse of succor and deliverance, have suddenly been rescued from their perilous
                  condition and restored to safety, can adequately appreciate the exultant joy and
                  happiness that thrilled every nerve of my system when convinced that I had gained
                  shelter and defense among those whose hearts beat in sympathy with my afflictions
                  and my fears. To many noble-hearted citizens of Creagerstown will memory often
                  recur with gratitude for their exertions in behalf of a friendless, and, to them,
                  unknown girl.
               As I afterward learned, and at the time conjectured, the young man sent off by the
                  woman whom I addressed on the road did go to St. Joseph's with the information,
                  but, owing to my disguise, he did not know that I was a member of the community,
                  and told the Superior that a boarder had escaped. It was not
                  class-day, but the bell was rung, and the scholars were assembled. None being
                  missed, it was supposed that the messenger had been mistaken. Thus the knowledge
                  of my absence was delayed for a time; and to this delay I am perhaps indebted for
                  the fact that I was not overtaken and forced back.
               So soon, however, as my escape became known, persons were sent in search of me in
                  different directions; and my place of refuge was discovered by the overseer of the
                  farm, who had gone to Frederick City, suspecting that I had perhaps sought
                  admission at the convent there, which is a "visitation" convent, and does not
                  stand in very amicable relations with St. Joseph's; but, hearing no tidings of me
                  there, he came to Creagerstown. He requested an interview with me, and stated that
                  the Mother Superior was greatly disturbed at the step I had taken, and promised
                  that if I would return quietly, and without causing an excitement, she would send
                  me home. He added that she was fearful lest, if the circumstances should become
                  known, the institution would be injured. My answer to this plausible message may
                  readily be surmised. After the departure of the overseer, the Superior, being
                  informed where I was, dispatched two "officers" of the community to Creagerstown.
                  On their arrival they endeavored to force their way to my room, but I refused to
                  see them; for the habit of obedience to their mandates had become so strong, that I actually
                  dreaded the influence of their presence, and trembled at the thought of an
                  interview with those of whom I had so long stood in awe, and to whose wishes and
                  commands submission had become, as it were, a second nature. The landlord of the
                  hotel took part in my anxiety to avoid this meeting. I was locked up in a room on
                  the second story of the house, the window-shutters of which were closed and
                  fastened during the whole time of the sisters' stay. I was in a state of the
                  utmost alarm lest they should reach me. I heard the altercation going on below,
                  and feared that, after all, I should be delivered up. So much had my spirit become
                  subject to the control of these sister-officers of St. Joseph's. But, being unable
                  to obtain access to me, they wrote notes, which were thrust under the door, and a
                  receipt, which I signed, for the articles of my own property which had been
                  brought me. I sent them every thing about my person that they demanded—my "capot,"
                  community-book or formulary, etc., etc. I had not felt such alarm at any moment
                  during my escape as during the time that these sisters remained in the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               AN INCIDENT AFTER ESCAPE.
               A SHORT time previous to my departure, one of the boarders had left the academy.
                  She had always appeared much attached to me; and when, on my way home from
                  Creagerstown with my father, we stopped at a hotel in Frederick City, she
                  immediately came upon hearing of our arrival, and, rushing to my arms, embraced me
                  with a cry of delight, "Oh! sister, I am so glad to see you away from that
                  institution!" She did not leave me until we entered the cars for Baltimore. Her
                  congratulations were abundant, and she repeatedly assured me, while we were
                  together in Frederick, that, had she known of my desire to escape, her carriage
                  would have been at my disposal.
               After my return home I received a letter from this young lady which I did not
                  answer. Its tenor was such as to satisfy me that already her mind had been biased
                  against me, so little dependence can be placed upon the candid judgment of any
                  one, even a postulant or boarder, who is under the influence of the Superior of
                  St. Joseph's.
               It is worthy of notice, however accounted for, that in every case of the flight of
                  a young girl from the walls of a Roman Catholic convent or community, which she may have been induced by
                  plausible but deceitful representations to enter, she is at once regarded as an
                  outcast and denounced as a disgrace to religion by the whole papal society. On
                  this subject the remarks of a recent writer are so pertinent that I can not
                  express myself better than in his words: "Her early associates will upbraid her,
                  her own parents [if they be Roman Catholic] will cast her off, and the papal
                  community in which she lives will avoid her as if infected with leprosy. In
                     papal countries she will scarcely be able to get food to keep her
                  from starvation, if they do not rally around her and drive her back to prison, and
                  penance, and punishment.
               "Why is this? Is it not very plain that the instructions of the priests to their
                  people are of such a kind that they train them to believe that if a nun escapes,
                  no matter for what cause, she is disobedient to the priest, and will certainly be
                  damned; and though it may appear cruel to treat her so harshly, yet, in the end,
                  if they succeed in compelling her to go back to the convent, the cruelty to the
                  escaped nun will be considered meritorious for their and her salvation?
               "To make ample provision for retaining them in these prisons, the priests teach
                  that there is no sin which can be committed while in the convent that will bear
                  comparison with that of leaving off the convent life and being married. Having
                  gotten this idea in the minds of their people of this dreadful sin of escaping
                  from the convent, the people never pretend to imagine for what cause or under what
                  circumstances the individual has escaped.
               "Now I will admit that one half, two thirds—nay, that all the nuns enter
                  willingly, but really ignorant of what is before them. Tell me of what immorality
                  or crime they are guilty when, on finding the convent to be not what they supposed
                  and were taught that it was, they desire to leave, and on finding themselves
                  imprisoned, venture on an escape?"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *
                     Priests' Prisons for Women, in Twelve Letters. By Andrew B.
                     Cross. Baltimore, 1854.
               
               There can be little doubt that the consideration of these consequences upon such a
                  step frightens many a novice, and many a professed "religieuse" too, from the attempt to liberate herself from the
                  durance in which she is held and the evils to which she is exposed. Whenever the
                  courage of a poor recluse is summoned to so desperate an effort, the entire
                  Catholic community seem actuated by one mind and purpose to denounce and persecute
                  her. The case is prejudged before she can utter a syllable in her own defense. The
                  assertions of those from whose thraldom she has escaped to those to whom she has
                  fled, and whose interest it must be to conceal and misconstrue, are implicitly and
                  blindly believed, while no credit is given to her own declarations. A malignant
                  pleasure seems to be found in holding her up as an object for public scorn, in
                  blasting the character and prospects of an innocent girl, simply because,
                  shuddering and revolting at the fate to which she was doomed, she could not remain
                  a willing or a passive victim. Nay, even some Protestants—to their shame be it
                  spoken—from motives of personal regard, or from interested considerations, do not
                  hesitate to lend their free voices to this combination of priests, superiors, and
                  a bigoted laity, in their unpardonable
                  work of malice and uncharitableness.
               As a matter of course, I have not escaped such an ordeal. As soon as my departure
                  from St. Joseph's became known, these efforts were commenced, and they have been
                  continued, in various forms, up to the present time. Having in the preceding
                  narrative told, with all candor, the incidents and motives of my entering the
                  institution, my experience while residing there, and the reasons that compelled me
                  to leave it by stealth, I shall now have to narrate a series of injurious and
                  groundless attacks, brought upon me by that step.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVIII.
               PRIEST O'DONNELL.
               THE first onset was made by a meddlesome priest, residing many hundred miles from
                  the locality, who could not resist the tempting opportunity afforded him to
                  display his zeal in behalf of this cherished system of the Romish clergy. The
                  following is a copy of his published letter on the subject:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Portland, November 25th, 1854.
                              "MR. EDITOR:
                           
                           "DEAR SIR,—My attention has been directed this morning to an extract
                              in your paper from a dispatch from Baltimore. It is not my wish to
                              censure you for the paragraph. Probably you had the pleasure to read
                              it for the first time in this morning's edition. I have no other
                              expression for the writer than that of sympathy; for the man who
                              knowingly circulates false rumors to gratify the marvelous appetite is
                              in much need of public sympathy. Such rumors, however, are easily
                              removed in the locality where they originated, but not so abroad.
                           "The statements are easily made and readily believed; an impression is
                              forthwith made in accordance with the statement, most generally of
                              prejudice and hostility against the calumniated, and there is
                                 evidently ly no manifest
                              desire to suppress the falsehood and circulate the truth. The paper
                              which receives the credit of announcing the singular accident,
                              phenomenon, or marvelous escape, sometimes retracts and makes the
                                 amende honorable, while other
                              papers, equally responsible to the public, ignore the refutation. I
                              hope, therefore, that my present intention shall not be misconstrued
                              or regarded in an unfriendly spirit, and that the explanation, if
                              satisfactory, will benefit the journals who hold guardianship over
                              Catholics and their doctrine.
                           "The statement of a young lady nun is radically false. A knowledge of
                              the rules which govern the house of the Sisters of Charity enables me
                              to make this unqualified statement.
                           "The house of the Sisters of Charity is known as St. Joseph's, near
                              Emmettsburg (not Emmettsbay). There is generally a number of persons
                              demanding admission. In order to secure a reception, they must produce
                              letters from responsible persons, vouching to their good character,
                              etc. They must bring sufficient means to enable them to return home if
                              the society thinks them unfit, either in physical or mental
                              qualifications, to discharge the hard, and, in many cases, repulsive
                              duties of the order. They spend the first two years as postulants,
                              take no vows, and are perfectly free to leave the institution at any
                              moment. There is no necessity for scaling walls, crossing fields, and
                              escaping during the stillness of the night. In a word, any Catholic
                              subject is perfectly free, as far as physical force is concerned, to
                              follow the dictates of her own will.
                           "The case with scholars is quite different. They are placed under the
                              care of the Sisters of Charity by their parents, to whom the sisters
                              are accountable. The rules of the institution are read by all the
                              scholars, and all who enter must abide by the rules. The young ladies
                              are not permitted to leave the ground or fixed bound, to make visits,
                              to receive or send letters from the institution without examination;
                              in a word, they are constantly under the eye of their teachers. Hence
                              they have no claim on the institution other than an education, an
                              equivalent for their pension. At the end of the school term they can
                              go home, to a friend's, to spend the vacation, or remain and pay their
                              board during the vacation, and are confined to the rules prescribed by
                              the parents.
                           "It sometimes happens that a young miss is sent by parents to have her
                              removed from a particular circle of society. A romantic, novel-reading
                              girl soon becomes restless under school restriction. A love-engagement
                              or some romantic adventure will urge her to invent means to escape the
                              care and vigilance of her teachers. Her object is soon accomplished;
                              the sisters are in trouble for the truant girl and her disappointed
                              parents; the papers enjoy a holiday on the first intimation of a
                              hairbreadth escape of a nun from a Catholic convent, and the gratified
                              public sleep soundly, well satisfied that, at least in this happy
                              republic, liberty of conscience will be proclaimed by the press, and
                              enthroned in the hearts of the people.
                           "I hope, Mr. Editor, you will not consider any word of the within
                              personal. I assure you it is not so intended. My aim is not so much to
                              teach in your paper per, or
                              in any other, but simply to state facts which are known to me, and
                              seemingly unknown to you and others.
                           
                              J. O'DONNELL."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Any formal reply to this effusion is entirely unnecessary. The reverend writer is
                  evidently a "swift witness," and would, if called upon, perhaps, be willing to
                  swear to any thing to protect the interests of "Mother Church." He pronounces
                     "the statement of a young lady nun" to be "radically
                     false," even before she had made a statement, and says he is enabled to
                  do so "from a knowledge of the rules which govern the house of the Sisters of
                  Charity." If such evidence as this were allowed, where would there be found
                  protection for any subject of a system of government and discipline? Does the
                     existence of a set of rules always and necessarily imply their
                     observance, and especially in a community whose religion
                  inculcates the doctrine that "the end sanctifies the means?" Why, this is the very
                  question at issue. If the regulations, as published, were carried out, there
                  would, of course, be no necessity for an escape. A child can see this as well as
                  the Rev. J. O'Donnell. His letter is unworthy of consideration; but the Mother
                  Superior of St. Joseph's has also published an epistle, which is so ingeniously
                  worded, and carries such an air of truthfulness, that it is well calculated to
                  deceive.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIX.
               THE MOTHER SUPERIOR'S LETTER.
               
                  
                     TO THE EDITOR OF "THE CITIZEN."
                  
                  "St. Joseph's, near Emmettsburg, December 1st, 1854.
               
               "SIR,—As numerous misrepresentations have appeared in the public prints in
                  relation to Miss Josephine Bunkley's connection with and departure from our
                  institution, I have, from a sense of duty, though with very great reluctance,
                  concluded to communicate to you for publication the following statement of facts,
                  exhibiting the exact truth of the matter.
               "About two years ago, Miss Bunkley, of her own accord, came here, and made a
                  spiritual retreat, that is, spent some days in meditation and prayer. She then
                  expressed an ardent desire to become a Sister of Charity—a member of our society.
                  As she was yet young, and a convert to the Catholic faith, she was required to
                  take time for mature consideration, and was not received. One year
                  after this she again applied by letter to be admitted as a candidate, and was
                  authorized to come here on trial. She accordingly entered the
                  novitiate, as others always do, to try her vocation, perfectly free to leave us at
                  any hour or on any day she might please to select, and with the express and
                  often-repeated assurance given her by us, that she would do wrong to stay with us unless she did so freely, and from the
                  conviction that she was doing the will of God and seeking her own happiness by
                  remaining.
               "During the ten months that she was with us she not only appeared happy, but
                  constantly professed to be so, and thus continued to express herself up to the
                  very eve of her departure. Every one who knows any thing of us at all, knows that
                  she had only to say the word, and she could have left us without difficulty and in
                  a becoming manner at any time she pleased. Many novices have left us after trying
                  their vocation here, who can testify how readily and cheerfully they were aided by
                  us in departing. Many who wished to stay have been induced by us to go when we
                  were satisfied that they were not called by Providence to the hardships and
                  sacrifices of a religious life.
               "The statement put forth that letters written to Miss Bunkley by her father and
                  others of her family were withheld from her, or returned to the writers, is
                  altogether untrue; they were invariably delivered to her. Her letters to her
                  family or friends were always sent as addressed. On one occasion only, when, after
                  her many professions of her desire to spend her life as a Sister of Charity, she
                  spoke in a letter to her father of spending six months at St.
                  Joseph's, I asked her meaning, and she replied that 'she did not wish her
                     father to know of her intention to become a sister, though he suspected
                     it.' I then told her 'not to deceive her father; that God would not
                  bless her undertaking if she did;' and I advised her to write the letter over
                  again. She did so, and the letter was sent. I can not now remember whether she
                  took the first letter back, or left it with me to be destroyed. This, I presume,
                  is the incident which has been perverted into a charge against us that we
                  destroyed her letters to her father, written to inform him of her unhappiness at
                  St. Joseph's and desire to leave.
               "Miss B.'s extraordinary mode of leaving our house was as unnecessary as it was
                  surprising. She could have left at any hour of the day, and by the front door.
                  There was no occasion to leave at night or through a window; for, though the
                  doors, as of every private dwelling, are locked to keep out intruders, the keys
                  are never removed from them. She had no reason to hide behind a tree, as no one
                  observed her going, and no one would have stopped her even if she had been
                  noticed. I should think it is almost superfluous to add that she was not pursued
                  after her departure became known. Miss B. left here on Thursday morning, the 9th
                  ultimo, before day. On the morning after, I wrote by mail to her father, at
                  Norfolk, informing him of her departure. On the following Saturday, the overseer
                  of our farm went to Creagerstown, and brought back a note from her asking for her
                  trunk, clothes, two watches, and the money which she had on deposit with our
                  treasurer, amounting to $2 62½. No one, in the mean time, had gone after her. No
                  one asked her to come back. It was only on the Monday of the next week that two of
                  our sisters went to Creagerstown, and, without seeing her, delivered the
                  above-named articles and obtained her written acknowledgment of their receipt.
               "There are two other inaccuracies, asserted or implied plied, in the various statements, in this county
                  and elsewhere, in regard to this affair, which I may as well now notice, once and
                  for all.
               "It is utterly untrue that Miss B. was in any manner solicited or persuaded to
                  enter our community; on the contrary, she was put off for a year when she applied,
                  and was afterward admitted only on trial at her own earnest solicitation. It is
                  equally untrue that her trunk, clothing, jewelry, etc., were demanded of her when
                  she first entered the institution. They were subject to her order on any day she
                  might choose to leave us. It is also untrue that she ever expressed to me the
                  desire to return home, neither have I heard at any time from any one of our
                  sisters that she ever expressed such a desire to her. It is likewise untrue that
                  she ever, with our knowledge, wrote, or desired to write, to that effect to her
                  father or any one else; and it is the purest fiction that she was ever commanded
                  to take her seat and write to her father or to any other person under our
                  dictation. Every sister and novice, here or elsewhere, attached to our community,
                  is not only free to leave us, but is urged by us to go whenever she
                  may think it her duty to do so, and it is well known to the public that, even when
                  the novice becomes a sister, she takes her vows but for a single
                     year, and at its close is free to renew them or not, as she may judge
                  proper. Those who have chosen to avail themselves of this alternative have never
                  been impeded or molested in the exercise of their free will, but, on the contrary,
                  pen, ink, and paper to write to their friends, the public coach, and money to pay
                  the fare, are always at the disposal of any one inclined to withdraw. The members
                  of our society are indeed told that, if they desire to be of our number, they must
                  keep our rules, and in that sense give up their own
                     will, but whoever wills to leave is as free as
                  air.
               "Miss B.'s clandestine departure may throw a romantic coloring around the matter,
                  but it can in no way reflect discreditably upon this institution, nor make a case
                  contrary to plain facts. I have been informed that Miss B. herself, during her
                  stay in Creagerstown, bore testimony to the truth of more than I have said here
                  respecting her kind treatment and freedom from duress or restriction while she
                  resided at St. Joseph's.
               "One word upon the general question. Our sisters have fathers and brothers. We
                  invite them to come and examine if they find their sisters and daughters anxious
                  to leave, or in the least degree unhappy on account of the state of life which
                  they have adopted. Fathers and brothers, relations of every degree, and friends,
                  do come, have always been in the habit of coming. They have free access to their
                  friends who are members of our community. Is it not strange, then, that such a
                  system as has been charged against us could exist for a year or a month? A large
                  number of our community are scattered over the whole United States, are constantly
                  traveling from city to city in public conveyances, and are regularly doing duty as
                  nurses and attendants in the public hospitals and asylums of the country. Can it
                  be believed that they are unable to find means of escape, or of communicating with
                  their friends at home? Moreover, in our school here we have numerous Protestant
                  young ladies who are in daily intercourse tercourse with the sisters. These young ladies are constantly visited by their
                  parents and friends, and go home to spend their vacations. They certainly could be
                  made the medium of communication between any sister and her friends, if there were
                  such occasion for it as has been represented by our assailants. The fact that no
                  such instance has ever occurred is sufficient proof that it has never been
                  necessary.
               "Finally, it has been stated that sisters have died here 'by inches'—wasting in
                  slow despair. This most charitable assertion is intended to create in the public
                  mind the suspicion or belief that they were the victims of a cruel imprisonment. I
                  have already disposed of this calumny, but I will be excused for adding that it is
                  indeed most true that several sisters have died here during the last
                  and preceding years, and it is quite probable that others will follow them.
                  Consumption, slow and rapid, brought on by their arduous labors and nightly
                  watchings at the death-beds of poor men and women, of every clime and of every
                  creed, in the hospitals of the country, has indeed carried off many Sisters of
                  Charity, and will no doubt continue to do its work of death. They go from this
                  their home in the fullness of health, on their missions of mercy, and when they
                  return it is sometimes only to die. If this is matter of reproach, we have no
                  reply to make. If this provokes the taunt of the assailant and feeds the
                  uncharitable, we have only to submit in patience and humility, as far as our weak
                  nature may enable us, in feeble imitation of the example of our divine Master, the
                  Lord Jesus.
               
                  "S. M. ETIENNE HALL, M. S. of St. Joseph's."
               
            
            
               CHAPTER L.
               REPLY TO THE MOTHER SUPERIOR'S LETTER.
               THE foregoing letter, of which it was said, on its first appearance, that "the
                  public will discern in this production the mind and Jesuitical craft of the
                  priestly polemic rather than the gushing sentiment of woman's charity," makes a
                  direct issue of veracity between the Mother Superior and myself. As to some of the
                  discrepancies involved in our respective statements, the public must decide on the
                  bare assertion of each; but on the principal question—the right of voluntary
                  departure—to which all the rest are subordinate, I hope to be able to satisfy
                  every unprejudiced mind that this right is a "myth"—a mere abstraction purposed to
                  deceive—a promise to be kept or denied, as may be deemed expedient and
                  politic.
               Though, in the preceding pages, I have narrated candidly and fairly the
                  circumstances and impressions connected with my residence at St. Joseph's, I can
                  not, perhaps, reasonably expect a stranger to place greater confidence in my
                  assertions, if unsupported, than in those of the Superior. Hence, before I
                  proceed, let me invite the impartial attention of my readers to what may be styled
                  the "presumptive evidence" of the case.
               Let it be remembered that the community of "Sisters ters of Charity" is one of the most attractive and
                  efficient institutions in the Roman Catholic Church, doing more than any other to
                  engage the interest and approval of those outside of her limits, and make
                  proselytes to her communion. It has already become a very powerful organization.
                  In this country alone, besides the Mother-House, it embraces forty-one "missions,"
                  which have their centre at Emmettsburg, but are disseminated over the broad extent
                  of these United States. Under the superintendence of these institutions there are
                  eighteen female orphan asylums, twenty-six schools, and several hospitals, in
                  which six thousand patients are attended in the year. This organization is
                  controlled by the priests; and by its ostentatious charities, and its assumed
                  virtues, and through the instrumentality of its numerous schools, it exerts a vast
                  influence. From their mode of life, the secresy of their endeavors to promote the
                  interests of their Church, and their devotion to the work of education, the
                  Sisters of Charity have not inappropriately been termed the "Female Jesuits." When
                  the importance and power of this community are duly estimated, it will be clearly
                  seen how momentous an object it becomes at all hazards to preserve its reputation
                  unsullied; and when, moreover, it is remembered that the doctrine of "mental
                  reservation" is taught and justified by the Jesuits and other orders in the Papal
                  Church—a doctrine which permits and recommends the utterance of a falsehood to
                  promote the interests of "religion"—the presumption, to say the least, of a strong
                  inducement to enforce obedience by the exercise of a power which lies in the hands
                  of those interested in the accomplishment of that design is plainly made out.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The vows taken by the Sisters of Charity are of the same nature with those
                     assumed in the various orders of nuns. The distinction is with regard to the
                     period during which these vows continue binding. In the monastic orders it
                     is for life; in the sisterhood for a stated term; but, as the preceding
                     narrative has shown, the renewal of these vows at the
                     expiration of that term is performed while in the institution, and as a
                     matter of course; and the duty of obedience is in force to require the
                     immediate resumption of the obligations just expired. There is no interval
                     of emancipation; so that the difference between this community and that of a
                     "close convent" is simply nominal, or consists in a formal and periodical
                     repetition of the solemn promises made at the outset.
                  But, apart from this consideration, it will be borne in mind that the
                     vows themselves, pledging the individual to poverty,
                     chastity, and obedience, are identically the same, whether taken for a
                     longer or a shorter time. The obligation of a strict, blind, absolute,
                     unhesitating obedience to an arbitrary authority weighs upon the Sister of
                     Charity just as heavily as upon the recluse of a nunnery. And what is the
                     degree of freedom for the exercise of a choice of continued servitude
                     afforded to the inmates of convents in our own day and among our own people?
                     We shall not simply take the attestation of all intelligent observers, who
                     know that bolts, and bars, and gratings, and high walls are the invariable
                     and essential characteristics of those institutions, wherever they exist in
                     our towns and cities; we shall not content ourselves with recalling the
                     numerous, and notorious, and well-authenticated cases of escape, whether
                     attempted or accomplished, from these high walls, and bolted doors, and
                     grated windows of the nunneries of America and England; we shall quote the
                     clear, distinct, unanswerable words of a Roman Catholic author, a saint
                     canonized only a few years since, the founder of a religious order, whose
                     work, entitled The Nun Sanctified, is the text-book of convents—whose entire
                     writings, according to a recent Roman Catholic author, were more than twenty
                     times rigorously discussed by the sacred congregation of rites, which
                     decreed that not one word in them had been found worthy of censure; and we
                     shall quote from an edition published at Dublin in the year 1848, for the
                     use of English nuns and postulants. Hear, then, what ST. ALPHONSUS LIGUORI
                     says of the "freedom" of those under religious vows:
                  "It is true that even in the cloisters there are some who do not live as
                     religious ought to live. To be a good religious and to be content are one
                     and the same thing I have been accustomed to say that a religious in her
                     convent enjoys a foretaste of paradise, OR SUFFERS AN ANTICIPATION OF HELL.
                     To endure the pains of hell is to be separated from God; TO BE FORCED
                     AGAINST THE INCLINATIONS OF NATURE to do the will of others; to be
                     distrusted, despised, reproved, AND CHASTISED by those
                        with whom we live; TO BE SHUT UP IN A PLACE OF CONFINEMENT FROM
                     WHICH IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO ESCAPE; in a word, it is to be in continual
                        torture, without a moment's peace!"
                  Elsewhere the language of this saint is, if possible, even more explicit.
                     Under the head of "What ought a person to do who finds that she has
                        become a nun against her inclination?" he says—not, as the Mother
                     Superior of St. Joseph's would have us understand, that in such a case the
                     sister may open the door of her convent and go forth—but,
                  "Perhaps you will tell me you can never have peace, because you find that
                     you have entered religion [i. e., become a nun] to please your
                     parents, and against your own will. I answer thus: If at the time of your
                     profession you had not a vocation, I would not have advised you to make the
                     vows of a religious, but I would have advised you to suspend your
                        resolution of going back to the world, and casting yourself into
                     the many dangers of perdition which are found in the world. I now see you
                     placed in the house of God, and made (either voluntarily or unwillingly) the
                     spouse of Jesus Christ. For my part, I can not pity you more than I could
                     pity a person who had been transported (even against his will) from a place
                     infected with pestilence and surrounded by enemies, to a healthful country,
                     to be placed there for life, secure against every foe.
                  "I add, grant that what you say is true: now that you are professed in a
                     convent, and that it is IMPOSSIBLE FOR YOU TO LEAVE IT, tell me, what do you
                     wish to do? If you have entered religion [i. e., become a nun]
                     against your inclination, you must now remain with cheerfulness. If you
                     abandon yourself to melancholy, you must lead a life of misery, and will
                     expose yourself to great danger of suffering a hell here and
                     another hereafter. You must then make a virtue of necessity;
                     and if the devil has brought you into religion [i.e., a
                     nunnery] for your destruction, let it be your care to avail yourself of your
                     holy state for your salvation, and to become a saint. Give yourself up to
                     God from the heart, and I assure you that by so doing you shall become more
                     content than all the princesses and queens of this world. Being asked his
                     opinion regarding a person who had become a nun against her
                        will, St. Francis de Sales answered: 'It is true that this child,
                     if she had not been obliged by her parents, would not have left the world;
                     but this is of little importance, provided she knows that the
                     force employed by her parents is more useful to her than the
                     permission to follow her own will. For now she can say, If I had not lost
                     such liberty, I should have lost true liberty.' The saint meant to say,
                     that, had she not been compelled by her parents to become a nun, her
                     liberty, which would have induced her to remain in the world, would have
                     robbed her of the true liberty of the children of God, which consists in
                     freedom from the chains and dangers of this world."—P. 26, 549-551.
                  Here, then, is the Mother Superior of St. Joseph's directly at issue, not
                     only with Liguori, but with the friend of the founder of her own order, the
                     holy Francis de Sales! Perhaps, however, the statements are reconcilable.
                     The Mother Superior is speaking to a Protestant world, outside the walls. To
                     them she says, Don't believe these stories about forced seclusion, and all
                     that; there is perfect liberty here; whoever wills to leave is as free as
                     air. But to the poor prisoners inside she would doubtless agree with the
                     saint in reasoning, You must make a virtue of necessity; IT IS
                     IMPOSSIBLE FOR YOU TO LEAVE!
                  With regard to those members of the sisterhood who, having finished their
                     probation, are sent out into the world on their errands of proselytism in
                     hospitals and private houses, there is no one that questions
                     their voluntary adherence to the order whose interests they
                     are serving; nor does any one doubt that there are, in the mother-house
                     itself, a large proportion, if not a majority of members, whose choice it
                     is, from whatever motive, to remain in their position. But will this
                     liberty, granted to some, be alleged in proof that others, who are
                     confessedly under restraint, are also in the exercise of their
                     free choice? Does this invalidate the testimony of numerous and
                     unimpeachable witnesses, who, having fled in fear and trembling from
                     oppression and imprisonment, assert and declare what they have both seen and
                     heard for themselves? Let an unprejudiced public decide.
                  For what purpose, we would ask and reiterate, are such precautions taken
                     against the escape of persons immured in these convents and other religious
                     houses? What signify these tremendous vows, this surrender of will, these
                     gratings and bars, these prison-like inclosures? If there is freedom, why
                     these semblances of restraint? Why oppose the just demand of a people
                     jealous, for themselves and their daughters, of that sacred right of
                     personal liberty for all guiltless of crime, in the purchase of which their
                     fathers poured out their life's blood? Why refuse to "bring the prisoners
                     out from the prison;" they that are "snared and hid in prison-houses;" that
                     are there "for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith,
                     Restore?"
                  As for the facilities enjoyed by parents and relatives in communicating with
                     the inmates of religious institutions, we shall examine this point at large
                     in another chapter.
               
               
               On the other hand, I would ask, in the name of charity and sound reason, can any
                  plausible motive be assigned why I should escape from the institution at a risk of
                  detection and punishment, and travel ten miles on an unknown road, exposed to danger and insult, if I enjoyed the
                  privilege of departure at free choice? Until such a rational motive be adduced, is
                  there not a fair presumption, at least, that I have spoken the truth?
            
            
               CHAPTER LI.
               OTHER FUGITIVES FROM ST. JOSEPH'S.
               THE Mother Superior, in her letter, endeavors to make it appear that no effort was
                  made after my escape to recapture me, and very adroitly suppresses certain facts
                  in order to leave this impression. I shall attempt to show how much truth there is
                  in this statement, and account for the fact that the pursuit was not
                  successful.
               I have already said that it was not a "class-day" when I escaped. By this I mean
                  that the teachers or class-sisters were not required to be on duty in the academy
                  upon that day, which was Thursday—a day of recreation for the boarders. I had
                  chosen this day as the most suitable, to avoid an early discovery. If missed at
                  the novitiate in the morning, it would be supposed that I was in the infirmary;
                  and, on the contrary, if missed in the infirmary, it would be presumed that I was
                  in the novitiate. Such, doubtless, was the case; for, as I afterward learned, my
                  absence was not detected until just before night prayers.
               Now, on the supposition that the overseer was sent the next morning to the convent
                  at Frederick in search of me—a distance of twenty-two miles—it is evident that he
                  could not well have returned to St. Joseph's, stopping by the way at Creagerstown, before
                  Saturday. On his way through Creagerstown, in going, he inquired if I was at the
                  hotel, and was answered in the negative. On his return, he again stopped to make
                  inquiry, insisting that I must be there, and demanding to see me. The proprietor
                  brought the message to me, and I consented to an interview. This was, I think, on
                  Saturday afternoon; and I should add that the man was intoxicated. Yet the Mother
                  Superior says that "no one, in the mean time, had gone after" me, and again, that
                  "no one asked [me] to come back." It is clear, under these circumstances, that the
                  two sisters who came on the following Monday could not possibly have done so
                  earlier, as they would not have come on Sunday, and were not made aware of my
                  locality until the Saturday evening subsequent to my escape.
               It will be seen, from what I have stated elsewhere, that some postulants are sent
                  away from the institution, and this for obvious reasons—the lack of requisites, as
                  wealth or expectation of property, talent above mediocrity, beauty, education,
                  accomplishments, or the possession of some traits of character which render them
                  unfit for the purposes of the community. Of such, and such only, can it be said
                  with truth that they are "urged to go."
               The Mother Superior states that "every sister or novice here or elsewhere attached
                  to our community is not only free to leave us, but is urged by us to go whenever
                  she may think it her duty to do so." If this be true, it is scarcely credible that
                  a single inmate, for the sake of mere notoriety, should confront the danger and
                  shame of a stealthy departure rather than make a peaceful and permitted egress
                  from the institution. But the case is not a solitary one. There are a sufficient
                  number of cases to prove, beyond the doubt of the unbiased, that restraint is
                  exercised in the matter.
               In the month of June, 1853, a novice who had escaped from St. Joseph's was pursued
                  and caught on the farm of Mr. John Dorsey, four miles south of Emmettsburg, on the
                  main road leading to Frederick City. Her pursuers were two "sisters," who traveled
                  in a carriage. When the poor fugitive recognized them, she left the road and
                  endeavored to escape through a field of wheat; but, leaping from the vehicle, the
                  sisters overtook her, and, seizing her by the arms, led her to the carriage,
                  placed her in it, and drove back to the institution. This much, which can be
                  proved in a court of justice, is all that is known of the occurrence. What was the
                  destiny of this unhappy girl is a mystery probably never to be solved.
               The following letter concerning the escape of another novice speaks for itself.
                  The writer is an intelligent Presbyterian clergyman of high character in
                  Emmettsburg. The communication was made to a friend who made inquiry relative to
                  the circumstance.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Emmettsburg, February 21, 1853.
                           
                           "DEAR SIR,—The questions you ask with respect to the young lady who
                              eloped from St. Joseph's and came to my house I answer thus:
                           "She called herself Helen O'Here, O'Here being the name of her
                              mother's present husband. Her true name, she said, was Grier. She was
                              a novice, and had been
                              raised at Albany, New York. If not born in Ireland, she was of Irish
                              extraction. She was at my house for two or three weeks. She left St.
                              Joseph's, not abjuring the Catholic faith, but because at
                              the institution she was oppressed with unusual labor, and had, as she
                              said, no time for devotion, the priest often assuring her and her
                              co-operatives that this labor, honestly performed, would be as
                              acceptable as their prayers. She entered as a novice, under the
                              impression that this place was, indeed, the centre of holy influences,
                              and that nowhere else could she serve her Maker with such entire
                              self-consecration; but (as she said) SHE FOUND NOTHING LIKE RELIGION
                              THERE. I asked her but few questions, but she spoke with much freedom,
                              and sometimes, I thought, with intemperate ardor. I heard her assert
                              that 'if continuing to be a "Sister of Charity" would certainly take
                              her to heaven, she would not consent,' so decided was her disgust with
                              what she had seen and passed through.
                           "She was accompanied on her return to Albany by Mr. J., who resides in
                              the State of Vermont, and who kindly took charge of her. Dr. A. and
                              Mr. D. G. advanced the necessary funds, the amount of which was
                              shortly returned.
                           
                           "She never said she was not a Catholic, and she is at this time with
                              her mother in Albany.
                           "Very possibly, all these statements she may, under certain
                              influences, say are false.
                           
                              "R. S. GRIER.
                              
                                 "Rev. G. W. A."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The reader will note the peculiar features of the case here stated. Helen O'Here
                  was evidently brought up in the Roman Catholic Church, and was averse to divulge
                  the true reasons for her escape. The causes alleged by her are not sufficient to
                  account for the strong and decided expressions of disgust and aversion uttered by
                  her in reference to the institution.
               I might confidently rest my case here, the chief assertion of the Mother Superior
                  having been clearly disproved—that, namely, of the entire liberty of all the
                  inmates of the institution to depart at pleasure. Little reliance can be placed
                  upon the assertions connected with such an utter distortion of facts; but I desire
                  to notice a few additional passages in the letter, and shall consider them in as
                  brief a manner as possible.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LII.
               REPLY CONTINUED.
               "DURING the ten months that she was with us, she not only appeared happy, but
                  constantly professed to be so, and thus continued to express herself up to the
                  very eve of her departure."
               The motives that compelled me to conceal my discontent and sorrow while a member
                  of the community I have already stated. The slightest murmur of dissatisfaction or
                  complaint was sure to be visited with punishment. This I had learned by experience
                  as well as observation, and hence my silence, my dissimulation, if any choose to
                  call it so. The situation was a trying one, and the views and feelings peculiar to
                  it should not be harshly judged by one who has never been placed in the same
                  position of distress and apprehension. One thought alone might influence to such a
                  concealment, and that is the fear of being transferred at any time to a distant
                  and strange locality, when all hope of relief would be given up. With this anxiety
                  weighing upon her mind, and the superadded dread of present punishment, who can
                  blame a timid and unprotected woman for dissembling her true state of mind?
               With respect to the account given of my letter to my friends, it will be perceived
                  that the only material difference between that and my own statement lies in the
                     motive alleged. The fact that a letter was written by
                  me to my father, announcing my intention to spend only six months at
                  the institution—that it was read by the Superior and disapproved of, and that the
                  writing of another letter was procured, is admitted; but this fact is distorted by
                  the extraordinary assertion that I wished to deceive my father. Is
                  this to be believed? Why should I wish to practice this deception. Far from it. I
                  was chiefly anxious to confess my error, to tell him of my sad disappointment, to
                  acquaint him with my change of views.
               But if, as the Superior states, letters from members of the community are always
                  sent as addressed, and "pen, ink, and paper to write to their friends are always
                  at the disposal of any one inclined to withdraw," how came it that she read
                     this letter of mine? Why was it not forwarded without examination?
               
               I might thus continue to examine, seriatim, the several statements composing this
                  ingenious document, but I can not think this necessary. At all events, having, in
                  the preceding pages, told my unvarnished story, I can do no more than reiterate.
                  Let me only add, that this "freedom to depart at will" is a mere fiction for the
                  uninitiated. It is well known who can be trusted and who must be watched. Suppose,
                  however, that such a rule exists, to the effect that all who wish to do so are at
                  liberty to depart. It may be doubted whether many would leave the institution even
                  openly and by daylight, without means, friends, or a knowledge of the locality,
                  and throw themselves upon strangers,
                  with the certainty, too, that their character would be assailed. But suppose that
                  one should summon the resolution to make the attempt. Pretexts and means would
                  most unquestionably be found speedily enough to detain her. Those, on the other
                  hand, who have no desire to leave, would, if asked, promptly reply
                  that "they could go home if they chose." But let them grow discontented and
                     try it! They would find it a promise made only to the ear.
            
            
               CHAPTER LIII.
               ANONYMOUS ATTACKS.
               IN addition to the letters which I have thus noticed, there have been made various
                  allegations and insinuations of a baser kind. Some of these are ridiculous,
                  involving my mental sanity, etc.; others, more malignant, accusing me of willful
                  falsehood and deception. Those who know me can decide upon these charges. Vulgar
                  and threatening letters, from sources unknown, have also reached me, the contents
                  of which were of a nature to provoke only contempt and disgust. That the public
                  may judge of these effusions, I subjoin copies of two, written, evidently, in a
                  disguised hand, and by the same person, whom I suppose to be a priest, whose
                  signature, however, can not be made out. Both are post-marked Baltimore, one
                  bearing date January 23d, and the other March 16th, but the inside contains
                  neither place nor date.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MISS BUNKLEY,—It is announced in the 'Frederick Examiner,' and copied
                              into the Baltimore papers of this morning, that you are engaged in
                              writing a work for publication regarding your disgraceful conduct at
                              St. Joseph's, Emmettsburg.
                           "As it appears to be your intention to gain a little notoriety, your situation is any thing
                              but an (un)enviable one. The notorious Maria Monk, who
                              published, a few years since, 'Awful Disclosures,' and was backed by a
                              host of idle vagabonds—Protestant preachers (who are now, we learn,
                              engaged in the same dirty work with you at Norfolk), was confined in
                              the New York City Prison, where she had been sent as a common
                              vagabond, thief, and open prostitute, and died there. The public,
                              having been humbugged so often by such lying tales, will not soon
                              again encourage any similar work. Do you understand that!!! And you
                              may inform the Protestant preachers, who are now gulling you, that
                              their efforts will be all in vain. Come, now, no lies; give us the
                              truth, and give us the names and residences of the editors all over
                              the Union that have made offers unprecedented for a narrative of your
                              life. Ha! you are caught in your own trap, eh! Oh shame! shame!!
                              shame!!! When your work appears, I will give you and your fellow
                              co-laborers such a basting through the public press as will make you
                              shed almost tears of blood, as I know something about you. So look
                              out! publish the work, now, if you dare. Send this to the editor of
                              that vile sheet, the Frederick Examiner.
                           
                           
                              Your very obedient servant."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               So much for No. 1, whose threatened excoriation and denunciation of the
                  "Protestant preachers," the "Frederick Examiner," and my humble self, judging from
                  the above classic and scathing epistle, are doubtless tremblingly anticipated by
                  all the objects of the writer's wrath. No. 2 is still more refined, delectable,
                  and overwhelming.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MISS BUNKLEY,—I inclose you a letter, published in last Saturday's
                              'Catholic Mirror,' for your information, and in order that you may
                              know what a very pretty notoriety you may have obtained throughout the
                              land—another 'Maria Monk'—a new authoress of 'Awful Developments'—'Two
                              Years in a Convent.' How much money have you received from the many
                              and numerous letters you have received from editors and publishers in
                              every part of the Union!!! Bah! when you do utter falsehoods, you know
                              how to utter a good one. Bah! you common ass! all you want is that
                              animal's long ears, his tail, and hoofs, to make a complete ass of
                              yourself. You put out a work!! That you are unable to do. The
                              miserable wretches of preachers who have been with you may indeed
                              publish a second edition of 'Maria Monk,' who died in New York City
                              Prison in September, 1839, where she had been confined as a common
                              prostitute, a common drunkard, and a common thief. Why did not those
                              preachers fly to her aid, to rescue her from so vile an end? This is
                              the miserable end of all who attack the Church founded and established
                              by Jesus Christ, and, as He says, 'the gates of hell shall never
                              prevail.' Oh! when your death-bed scene comes, how will your tune be
                              altered. 'You shall call upon me,' says our Lord, 'and you shall not
                              find me, and you shall die in your sins.' I have been waiting a long
                              time now for your work; come, come, let the public have it. But I can
                              assure you, I stand ready to put the dissecting-knife over it in a
                              manner you little dream of—so now beware!
                           
                              Yours, etc."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               Accompanying this precious effusion was a document from the Catholic
                     Mirror, purporting to be a letter from a personage who signs himself
                  "J. J. E. N.," and speaking of my escape from St. Joseph's. It contains little
                  else than a repetition of what the Mother Superior had said before. The initials
                  appended to this article I recognized as those of a Catholic priest, named Norman,
                  who has an elderly sister at the institution, and whose visits, of course, are
                  eagerly welcomed. I recollect perfectly the circumstances of a visit made by him
                  during my stay at St. Joseph's, and the pains taken to render it agreeable. The
                  article, however, contains no intimation that its author was a
                  priest—one of a class whose interests and purposes are well subserved
                  by lavishing praises on these institutions, these "priests' prisons for women," as
                  they have been not inaptly styled by an eloquent and fearless writer.
            
            
               CHAPTER LIV.
               THE AUTHOR'S DESIGN.
               THE public mind has begun to appreciate, with some degree of correctness, the evil
                  influence of monastic establishments, and those of a kindred character. It has, at
                  least, commenced to perceive the anomaly of such a system of personal restraint
                  and forced obedience in a land of free institutions and liberal principles.
                  Jesuitism, in its worst phase, is now the conservative power of the Roman Catholic
                  Church, compelled, in self-preservation, a second time to appeal to the order of
                  Loyola for aid and defense. The United States teem with these intriguing priests,
                  as well as with their confederates, the "Jesuits of the short robe," or lay
                  Jesuits, among whom even women are numbered. Convents and religious communities,
                  such as those of the "Sisters of Charity" and the "Sisters of Mercy," are among
                  their chief instrumentalities to promote the ends of the papacy. The most
                  strenuous efforts are made, in every variety of mode, to augment the numbers and
                  swell the resources of these institutions, and hence the alacrity and energy with
                  which so many protectors rush to their vindication when it is threatened to reveal
                  the truth concerning them. Nor is it always the case that exertions to secure
                  fresh victims tims are confined to the
                  use of persuasion and advice, but physical assistance can be tendered to convey
                  those whom circumstances might prevent from following the desired course to the
                  place of confinement. There is a married lady residing in the vicinity of St.
                  Joseph's who has been known to take young girls, in the absence of their parents,
                  without the consent of their natural protectors, and despite their known wishes,
                  and remove them to that institution and to the convent in Frederick. I have in my
                  possession the names of the parties, and can, if necessary, give proof of the
                  occurrences.
               If, by my simple narration of facts, I shall succeed in communicating a salutary
                  caution to enthusiastic and innocent girls, who, by devout and blissful pictures
                  of a "religious" state, artfully presented to their minds, may have been led to
                  entertain the thought of becoming members of a convent, or an institution of
                  similar nature, I shall have reached my utmost aim. For such I entertain the
                  warmest sympathy, and the kindest appreciation of their motives and desires. But I
                  would, God helping me, preserve them, if it be possible, from suffering, sorrow,
                  and, it may be, moral death. He who reads the heart knows the purity of my
                  intention and the truth of my declarations.
            
            
               CHAPTER LV.
               INTERVIEWS WITH MY CONFESSOR.
               I HAVE only, in conclusion, to relate one of the attempts made to bring me back
                  within the possession of my enemies, and into the pale of the Church of Rome. To
                  do this understandingly, reference must be made to the period of my entrance upon
                  convent life.
               When on my way to St. Joseph's, to enter as a postulant at that institution, I
                  wrote to my confessor, the Rev. ——, of Norfolk, and acquainted him with the
                  determination at which I had arrived, contrary, however, to his own advice. My
                  letter was mailed at a small town between Baltimore and Emmettsburg. I do not know
                  that he ever received it. As I have elsewhere stated, I saw him at the
                  institution. He was not of the Order of Lazarists, and had often recommended me
                  not to go to St. Joseph's.
               Some months, however, subsequent to my entrance, his sister was placed there as a
                  boarder. It was not long before her health began to fail. I frequently saw her in
                  tears, and at times, when passing her, endeavored to learn the cause of her
                  distress. I noticed that she was not treated with kindness by the community, and
                  on one occasion, when meeting her in the passage to the infirmary, whither she had been sent, she
                  told me of her unhappiness, of her desire to return, and how she wished her
                  brother might know how miserable she was. Saying this, she burst into tears. A few
                  weeks passed, and I missed her from the academy entirely. I learned that she had
                  been again sent to the infirmary.
               One day, passing by the library, I saw some one sitting just behind the door, and,
                  conjecturing that it might be this young lady, I entered the room. I was struck
                  with her pale and emaciated appearance; and she, too, remarked how altered I was.
                  She thought I must be unhappy, and said I should have taken her brother's advice
                  not to enter the institution. I dared not, however, confide my real feelings to
                  her. I had often heard unkind remarks made respecting this young person by the
                  directress and others of the academy.
               Her brother, hearing of her ill health, came to St. Joseph's. I saw him, but had
                  no opportunity of conversing with him without risk of being reported. After his
                  departure she grew worse, and was sent to the Baltimore infirmary. The directors
                  and officers of the community were much displeased because her brother had not
                  taken her away when he came, and I overheard one of them say that it was a piece
                  of imposition, etc.
               This priest visited me twice at my father's house, the first time shortly after my
                  escape. This call was quite unexpected to me. I was seated, in company with a
                  young lady, in the parlor, at the piano, when the Rev. —— was announced. I was
                  both surprised and alarmed. He entered, and, advancing toward me, extended his
                  hand, remarking, "I am happy to see you at home, Josephine." I answered hastily,
                  "Are you really glad to see me at home?" "I am," he repeated. I told
                  him that I regretted he had thought it necessary to call, as my father would be
                  much displeased to meet him or hear of his visit. He then stated his object, which
                  was to induce me to go to the church to confession and to
                     attend mass. I told him it was impossible; that I would never
                  again enter that Church; and, indeed, that there was a report in circulation to
                  the effect that if I should attempt to enter it, I would be put out for
                  scandalizing it. He begged me to fear nothing of the sort; and assured me that if
                  any person should dare to touch me for such a purpose, he would announce his
                  displeasure from the altar. He left, urging me to come to church, insisting that
                  he could not go without my promise, and assuring me that he would still continue
                  to regard me as a member of his flock.
               In the course of this conversation I told him of the treatment his sister had
                  received at the institution, and that I thought it would be well to send for her
                  at the Baltimore infirmary, as I knew she would be happier away from it.
               On his second visit, two or three weeks after this interview, I was alone. He
                  remained half an hour. He told me that he had come, thinking I was in trouble in
                  consequence of the Lady Superior's letter. He had read it that very day, and
                  considered it quite uncalled for; he was sorry it had been written. As I had made
                  no charges against the institution publicly, there could be no occasion for
                  writing and publishing that document. He again urged me to come to confession and to attend mass. I answered that I
                  had no wish to do so, but that, even if I desired it, my father would never permit
                  me to enter his door again. He was aware, I said, how strong had been his
                  opposition from the outset, and now it would be much stronger than ever. I
                  expressed the fear that my father would be greatly displeased should he come home
                  and find him there.
               During these remarks, when I refused to attend mass, assigning, among other
                  reasons, that my father would not consent to my doing so, he exclaimed, "Come,
                  then—come with me now; I will protect you; I have a home for you;
                  come with me!" It was in the evening, just before twilight. I trembled with
                  agitation; my former attachments and predilections for the Roman Catholic Church
                  rushed upon me with such force that I feared for my own steadfastness and my
                  safety. I did not reply for some time: a conflict raged within my breast; but an
                  earnest desire to do my duty toward God and my conscience prevailed. I hesitated,
                  and reflected for a few moments, until my composure was regained and my former
                  determination resumed. I then said, faintly, "I can not—I can not." He rose from
                  his seat, leaned against the mantle, and seemed overwhelmed with disappointment.
                  He repeated, "I can not leave without your promise to return to the Church." I
                  told him that could never be, and desired that he would not come again. Then,
                  laying his hand upon my arm, he said, "Josephine, have I lost you? Josephine, have
                  I lost you? Have I lost a lamb from my fold? Am I no more to be your confessor?"
                  As I made no reply ply, he continued, "I am at least your friend, as I have ever
                  been; and when you are alone in the world, I will be your friend, no matter what
                  may happen. Josephine, mark these words: Don't utter a syllable of what I have
                  said to you, either to a Catholic or to a Protestant." He finally made me promise
                  that I would reflect upon all that he had said, and write him a letter; and
                  assured me that, should I request it, he would not come again. As he was going
                  toward the door, he turned to me, saying, "How can I leave you without your
                  promise to come back to the Church?" Then, reluctantly bidding me good evening, he
                  withdrew.
               I went to my room in a state of excitement impossible to describe, and that
                  evening penned a letter with a view to prevent another visit, being greatly
                  intimidated by what had passed. Indeed, I feared that, had he come again, I should
                  have been lost.
               In this letter, the details of which I can not now accurately recall, I think I
                  intimated to him that I retained yet some attachment for the Roman Catholic
                  Church, and hoped once more, at some future time, to kneel before the altar where
                  I had passed so many hours in silent but ecstatic contemplation. This letter
                  produced the desired effect. He did not call again.
               The first visit of the priest soon became known in the neighborhood, and a report
                  was circulated, as I believe by himself, that I had sent my sister for him. This
                  was untrue; I had no wish to see him, nor to be urged to enter the Church again,
                  although there yet lingered in my mind something of those sentiments which had
                  been assiduously cultivated for years by priestly influence, and had not been completely dissipated even by those
                  circumstances so calculated to remove them through which I had just passed.
               Other attempts have been made to allure me back, and repeated threats have been
                  made to take me back by force, but of these I shall not speak more fully. In my
                  own mind there remains no doubt of a deliberate purpose to injure me, as well as
                  to throw discredit upon my testimony with regard to the institution of St.
                  Josephs.
            
            
               CONCLUSION.
               BY THE EDITOR.
               
                  I. INSPECTION OF CONVENTS.
                  IN the year 1852, a movement was commenced in Great Britain for the purpose of
                     petitioning the legislative body of that country to provide in some manner for
                     the placing of convents, and other institutions of similar character, under
                     legal inspection and control. This object will be more fully gathered from the
                     following document, circulated in England, and signed by many thousand women,
                     for presentation to Parliament:
                  "Your petitioners are deeply sensible of the blessings of civil and religious
                     liberty enjoyed by the people of this country; but they regret to observe that
                     from one class of their fellow-subjects these blessings are in a great measure
                     withheld, in consequence of the existence of the conventual system—a system
                     altogether opposed to the pure and benevolent character of the Gospel, and
                     under which young and inexperienced females are immured in nunneries; denied
                     the privilege of free intercourse with their relatives and friends; deprived of
                     the profitable and wholesome discipline of social life, and exposed to
                     concealed dangers; from which unnatural restraint, if they should repent of
                     vows taken in ignorance or rashness, escape is almost most impossible. Your petitioners therefore
                     entreat your honorable House to pass such a measure as may effectually open
                     these establishments to regular inspection, so that no person may be received
                     into, or detained in, or dismissed from them without the knowledge of the
                     proper authorities."
                  It is not a little remarkable that a proposition of this nature should have
                     excited among the Roman Catholics of Great Britain, under the instigation,
                     doubtless, of their priests, a storm of opposition and abuse. Those who are
                     conscious of the integrity of their motives and the rectitude of their course
                     do not ordinarily shrink from an examination of either. It might reasonably be
                     imagined that a system so continually lauded to the skies as the perfection of
                     purity and sanctity on earth, could well afford to court the scrutiny of the
                     public. Deeds of light do not require the darkness or the shade. An effort,
                     however, to open the nunneries of England to a legal inspection, for the
                     prevention of possible oppression or restraint, instead of being hailed as a
                     measure which would infallibly add lustre to the virtues and attractions of
                     those establishments, was denounced with every epithet of indignation and
                     horror. It was characterized as "the grossest of insults;" "cowardly and
                     wanton;" "a most unmanly attempt to deprive these sisters of a security which
                     even the meanest slaves have insured to them."
                  It is difficult to see how the appointment of such a committee of inspection,
                     constituted as was proposed, of an equal number of Roman Catholics and
                     Protestants, could be regarded by intelligent laymen as in itself so dreadful,
                     and worthy of reprobation. But, on the other hand, it is more easy to perceive
                     the motive which may have actuated the priesthood of Rome in
                     making every imaginable effort to defeat the project.
                  The proposed measure involved no infringement of the privilege of assuming
                     religious vows, or living in religious communities. "If," as an able writer has
                     well said, "ladies choose to dress themselves in a monastic fashion—black,
                     white, and gray—with rosaries and crucifixes, it may all seem to us extremely
                     silly, but we have no right to interfere, and any interference would be an
                     infringement of their civil and religious rights. If ladies choose to live in
                     lonely houses, with ladies like themselves, and altogether secluded from men,
                     it may be a self-inflicted penance, very foolish in our eyes, but we have no
                     right to interfere. But if it be found that young girls of sixteen years of age
                     are entrapped into these establishments before they are capable of forming a
                     judgment upon the importance of such a step; if young persons are allured into
                     these establishments with the view of obtaining power over every right and
                     property to which they may afterward become entitled, and then are not
                     permitted to leave them when they desire to depart from them; and when they
                     change their religious opinions, and desire to withdraw, are not permitted to
                     withdraw; then, I say, we are justified in interfering, not, indeed,
                     interfering against ladies, but interfering in order that those ladies may
                     enjoy the free exercise of their civil and religious liberties. And in asking
                     that nunneries be subjected to visitation on the part either of her majesty's
                     justices of the peace, or on the part of Royal Commissioners appointed for the
                     occasion, all we ask is that there
                     may be secured to every person in these establishments free ingress and free
                     egress; in other words, that they shall enjoy, in their full extent,
                        their civil liberty and their religious freedom."
               
               
                  II. UNWILLING NUNS.
                  But would Protestant readers know by what strong arguments and illustrations
                     the opponents of this proposed examination vindicate the restraint of the
                     convent? Let them hear the language of "The Catholic Institute" of Great
                     Britain, in a pamphlet issued on this subject.
                  "Under our free government, are we not ourselves living in perpetual restraint?
                     Is not our liberty curtailed and limited by many prohibitions and laws?
                        Are not our soldiers bound by an irrevocable engagement as soon as
                        they are enlisted, by which single act—almost always done from want, or in a
                        frolic, or in a state of intoxication—are they not subject to a
                     discipline a thousand times more severe than that of the most rigid religious
                     orders? Are they not, in truth, merely passive instruments in the hands of
                     their commanding officers? Are not their diet, their sleep, their dress, even
                     their motions, under continual restrictions? Willing or unwilling, are they not
                     doomed to go wherever they are sent, even to the extremities of the world, and
                     to the most unwholesome climates, to fight the battles of their country, with
                     scarcely a hope of seeing their friends again in their native land? Is not
                     marriage among us subject to restrictive laws? When contracted as the law
                     directs, is it not indissoluble? And is not the unfortunate young person who
                     has been sacrificed rificed to the avarice and ambition of her unnatural
                     parents, or has been the melancholy victim of her own blindness, condemned to
                     pass her days beneath the yoke which she can never more shake off? To bring the
                     question nearer home—by the sole fact of our being born in England, are we not
                     deprived of what appears to be an essential part of liberty, the liberty of
                     disposing of ourselves as we think best, and of choosing the climate and the
                     form of government which we judge to be the most conducive to our happiness?
                     From the single fact, in which we never concurred in the beginning, nor which
                     we ever subsequently approved of, have we not contracted with our native
                     country an engagement so irrevocable that it can never be dissolved by any act
                     of our own?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"Nuns and Monastic Institutes," a tract "published under the
                        superintendence of the Catholic Institute of Great Britain."
                  
                  We need add nothing to this line of argument. Monastic imprisonment is
                     justifiable, in the view of its own advocates, by the same pretext as the
                     enlistment of soldiers under a drunken oath, or the miserable bondage of a wife
                     "sacrificed to the avarice and ambition of unnatural parents." The condition of
                     the nun is and ought to be as hopeless, as wretched, as desperate as these.
                  There are, then, unwilling nuns; this is acknowledged, as indeed
                     it were useless to deny it; and their confinement, in opposition to their own
                     choice and desire, is justified. Nay, as we have seen, this unwillingness is
                     considered something so frequent and so much to be expected, that, in the books
                     furnished and approved for the special edification of the sisters, there are express exhortations addressed
                     to persons in this predicament. We have already cited some of these passages.
                     The great Saint Alphonsus Liguori pleads very tenderly with these poor wretches
                     of nuns who are imprisoned against their will. He urges them to "MAKE A VIRTUE
                     OF NECESSITY." "Grant," he adds, condescending to argue with the unfortunate
                     defenseless one, "grant that what you state is true; now that you are professed
                     in a convent, and that it is IMPOSSIBLE FOR YOU TO LEAVE IT, tell me, what do
                     you wish to do? If you have entered religion against your inclination, you must
                     now remain with cheerfulness. If you abandon yourself to melancholy, you must
                     lead a life of misery, and will expose yourself to great danger of suffering
                        a hell here and another hereafter. You must, then, make a
                        virtue of necessity."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *The True Spouse of Jesus Christ, or, the Nun Sanctified by the Virtues of
                        her State. Translated from the Italian by a Catholic Clergyman. 8vo.
                        Dublin: Duffy, 1848, p. 55!.
                  
                  Well may an eloquent writer exclaim, "To what paltry shifts and quibbles will
                     not Roman Catholic writers resort to disguise the cruelty of this practice!
                     Nuns are described as superhuman beings, as angels on earth, without a thought
                     or wish beyond the walls of their convents. The effects of habit, of religious
                     fear, of decorum, which prevented many of the French nuns from casting off the
                     veil at a period when the Revolutionary storm had struck awe into every breast,
                     are construed into a proof of the unvariableness of purpose which follows the
                     religious profession. Are nuns, indeed, so invariably happy? Why, then,
                        are they insulted by their spiritual rulers by keeping them
                     under the very guards and precautions which magistrates employ to secure
                        external good behavior among the female inmates of prisons and
                        penitentiaries? Would the nuns continue during their lives under the
                     same privations were they at liberty to resume the laical state? Why,
                        then, are they bound fast with awful vows? Why are they not allowed
                     to offer up, day by day, the free-will offering of their souls and bodies?
                  "The reluctant nuns, you say, are few. Vain, unfeeling sophistry!
                     First prove that vows are recommended on divine authority; that Christ has
                     authorized the use of force and compulsion to ratify them when they are made,
                     and then you may stop your ears against the complaints of a few
                        sufferers. But can millions of submissive, or even willing recluses,
                        atone for the despair of those few? You reckon in indefinite
                     numbers those that in France did not avail themselves of the Revolutionary
                     laws. You should rather inquire how many who, before the Revolution, appeared
                     perfectly contented in their cloistral slavery, overcame their religious fear,
                     and fled to the arms of a husband as soon as they could do it with impunity.
                        Two hundred and ten nuns were secularized in Spain during the
                     short-lived reign of the Cortes. Were these helpless beings happy in their
                     former durance? What an appalling number of less fortunate victims might not be
                     made out by averaging in the same proportion the millions of females who, since
                     the establishment of convents, have surrendered their liberty into the hands of
                        Rome!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Blanco White's "Practical and Internal Evidence against Catholicism."
                        1826, p. 138. Of this writer, who had been a Roman Catholic priest for
                        many years, Dr. Newman, the distinguished pervert from Oxford, says,
                        while dissenting strongly from Mr. White's opinions, "I have the fullest
                        confidence in his word when he witnesses to facts, and facts which he
                        knew." He describes him as a person "whose honor you may depend on;" "a
                        man you can trust."—Lectures on the Present Condition of Catholics
                           in England. London, 1851.
                  
               
               
                  
                  III. COERCION THE LAW OF THE CONVENT.
                  To satisfy himself that restraint is contemplated by the monastic system, let
                     the reader turn for a moment to the ritual for the assumption of the veil in
                     convents, and examine the tenor of the curse there pronounced.
                  "By the authority of Almighty God and his holy apostles Peter and Paul, we
                     solemnly forbid, under pain of anathema, that any one draw away these present
                     virgins, or holy nuns, from the divine service to which they have devoted
                     themselves under the banner of chastity; or that any one purloin their goods,
                     or hinder their possessing them unmolested; but if any one shall dare to
                     attempt such a thing, let him be accursed at home and abroad; accursed in the
                     city and in the field; accursed in waking and sleeping; accursed in eating and
                     drinking; accursed in walking and sitting; cursed in his flesh and his bones;
                     and from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head let him have no
                     soundness. Come upon him the malediction which, by Moses in the Law, the Lord
                     hath laid on the sons of iniquity. Be his name blotted out from the book of the
                     living, and not be written with the righteous. His portion and inheritance be
                     with Cain the fratricide, with Dathan and Abiram, with Ananias and Sapphira,
                     with Simon the sorcerer, and with Judas the traitor, and with those who have
                     said to God, 'Depart from us, we desire not the knowledge of thy ways.' Let him
                     perish in the day of judgment, and let everlasting fire devour him, with the
                     devil and his angels, unless he make restitution and come to amendment.
                        Fiat. Fiat. So be it. So be it."
                  This is not the voice of the Christian minister, gently encouraging a devout
                     soul to engage upon a course of willing obedience, to be spontaneously and
                     joyfully persevered in unto the end. It imposes on the conscience an awful
                     weight from the outset. It is designed to remain a fearful monument of that one
                     act by which, in the truthful language of the Roman Catholic tract we have
                     already quoted, the poor nun is "bound," like the miserable recruit, "by an
                     irrevocable engagement."
                  And if, in subsequent years, at the thought of friends, and family, and home;
                     tired of the dull, weary monotony of the cloister, or, it may be, sick at heart
                     of the priestcraft, the superstition, the vice, which may be secretly practiced
                     within the convent walls; or, perhaps, having changed her religious sentiments,
                     she wishes for the free light of the Gospel of Christ, yet, the moment she
                     thinks of these things, the awful malediction, as a ghastly spectre, rises
                     before her,
                  "Let her perish in the day of judgment, and let everlasting fire devour her,
                     with the devil and his angels."
                  Or if her father, in after years, desires to bring back his long-lost daughter
                     to his bosom; or if her mother should sigh over the dangers which she has
                        learned are rife within the
                     cloisters; or if her brother, brave and generous, makes an effort to secure the
                     freedom of his sister, then the vision of the prelate stands before him, with
                     crosier and mitre, and proclaims the sentence,
                  "Let him perish in the day of judgment, and let everlasting fire devour him,
                     with the devil and his angels."
                  Nay, were the chief justice of our commonwealth to issue the writ of habeas corpus to bring this young recluse into
                     court before him, or were a committee of inspection appointed by our judiciary
                     to visit the establishment, and invite the prisoner, if such be her choice, to
                     go forth free, the sentence falls upon their heads,
                  "Let them perish in the day of judgment, and let everlasting fire devour them,
                     with the devil and his angels."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Reverend M. H. Seymour.
                  
                  But while the Church, in this imposing service, lays upon the mind
                     of her captive, and on the minds of those who might be induced to procure her
                     freedom, the most forcible restraint that fear and terror can create, it is no
                     less evident that the practical measures taken for the continuance of this
                     captivity are equally strong to confine and imprison the body. The Council of
                     Trent enjoins all bishops to enforce the close confinement of nuns by every
                     means, and even to engage the assistance of the secular arm for that purpose;
                     entreats all princes to protect the inclosure of the convents; and threatens
                     with instant excommunication all civil magistrates who withhold their aid when
                     the bishops call for it. "Let no professed nun," say the fathers of the Council
                     of Trent, "come out of her monastery under any pretext whatever, not even for a
                     moment." "If any of the regulars [men and women under perpetual vows] pretend
                     that fear or force compelled them to enter the cloister, or that the profession
                     took place before the appointed age, let them not be heard, except within five
                     years of their profession. But if they put off the frock of their own accord,
                     no allegation of such should be heard, but, being compelled to return to
                        the convent, THEY MUST BE PUNISHED AS APOSTATES, being, in the mean
                     time, deprived of all the privileges of their order."
                  Such is the law of the Church of Rome concerning all who have fled from the
                     walls of religious houses. It applies fully to every one of those who, in our
                     own day and in our own land, have succeeded in making their escape; and if the
                     institutions and the public opinion of this country allowed it, that law would
                     be seen to be publicly carried out to the letter among us, as undoubtedly it
                     has been secretly within the precincts of those establishments which, in the
                     midst of our boasted freedom, constitute small despotisms of the deepest
                     oppression.
                  In view, therefore, of the fact that by the very testimony of the Roman
                     Catholic Church herself, in her popular publications, in her public rites, and
                     in her authorized standards of doctrine and discipline, an actual restraint is
                     and must be imposed upon the inmates of monastic establishments; and in view of
                     the conceded fact that there are some, if not many, who are thus unwillingly
                     confined, we urge the enactment of
                     some provision to extend the territory of our American freedom over these
                     institutions; to apply the precious principles of liberty of thought, speech,
                     and person to these unhappy beings; to proclaim to the reluctant though
                     submissive bondwoman of the convent, if there be but one such in our land,
                     "There is no law to keep you here; you are free to stay or to go forth; make
                     your choice without fear of man; remain, if so you will, but be assured that
                     you need do so no longer than your own free purpose shall last."
                  A few farther considerations will be noticed, however, before we reach the full
                     examination of this point.
               
               
                  IV. FACILITIES OF COMMUNICATION.
                  It has been urged that a sufficient method of redress for the occasional
                     instances of unwillingness that we have here referred to, is provided by the
                     system, in the free access of parents and relatives to communication with the
                     nun. Such is the argument of the Mother Superior of St. Joseph's in her letter
                     respecting the author of this narrative. Such is the favorite strain of all who
                     attempt to set aside the proofs of oppression and restraint furnished by
                     numerous witnesses. Our nuns and sisters, they say, have fathers and mothers,
                     brothers and friends, who may at any time visit them freely, and can surely be
                     relied upon to ascertain the true state of their feelings, and to procure their
                     departure should they themselves desire to leave.
                  What, then, is the fact respecting this facility of intercourse? What
                     opportunities have the members of the convent or the sisterhood to acquaint
                     their friends with their views and wishes? Every one knows how it is. The
                     interview, when allowed at all, takes place at an iron grating, where the nun
                     stands like a prisoner behind bars, which present an impassable barrier. These
                     interviews generally, if not invariably, take place in the presence of a third
                     person—a nun appointed for the purpose. The sister, taught, as we shall see, to
                     regard these interviews as dangerous to her spiritual safety, and carefully
                     instructed to avoid all demonstrations of attachment to her former state, and
                     desire to return to the world, and required to express an entire contentment
                     and satisfaction with the "religious" life, can not be supposed to exercise a
                     reasonable choice in the matter, or to make known her interior sentiments under
                     this fourfold restraint of spiritual fear, mechanical obedience, the
                     consciousness of being watched, and an actual prevention of free converse by
                     means of the iron barriers that separate her from her friends. But remember
                     that the nun is bound to be in a condition of abject submission to her
                     Superior's will; that this is the very essence of that sanctity to which she is
                     taught to aspire, an entire sacrifice of moral independence. The idea that with
                     such discipline and such habits, to say nothing of the dread of penance,
                     whether it consist in flogging,*
                     solitary
                        
                        *Under the less harsh name of discipline or flagellation. "This is a species of mortification," says St. Alphonsus
                           Liguori, who died only seventy years ago, "strongly recommended by
                           Francis de Sales, and universally adopted in religious communities of
                           both sexes. All the modern saints, without a single exception, have
                           continually practiced this sort of penance. It is related of St. Lewis of
                           Gonzaga that he often scourged himself unto blood three times in the day;
                           and at the point of death, not having sufficient strength to use the
                           lash, he besought the provincial to have him disciplined from head to
                           foot. Surely, then, it would not be too much for you to take the
                              discipline once in the day, or at least three or four times in
                           the week!"—The True Spouse of Christ, etc., p. 181.
                      ry confinement, or
                     irksome duties, as a determent from infraction of the commands given her, is
                     simply absurd.
                  "What progress," asks St. Alphonsus Liguori, "can be expected from the
                     religious who wishes to have her relations near the convent; who, if she do not
                     see them, is constantly sending letters and messages to request a visit from
                     them; and who, if they yield not to her entreaties, is disturbed, and complains
                     by frequent letters of their absence and neglect? It is impossible for a nun of
                     this description ever to obtain a close union with God. 'Whoever,' says St.
                     Gregory, 'wishes to be truly united to the Father of all, must be separated
                     from relations.'"
                  "The nun who leaves her relations in effect and in affection,
                     shall obtain eternal beatitude in heaven and a hundred-fold on earth; she will
                     leave a few, and shall find many sisters in religion; she will abandon a father
                     and a mother, and in return shall have God for her Father, and Mary for her
                     mother.
                  "Hence, convinced that detachment from kindred is highly pleasing to God, the
                     saints have sought to be wholly removed from their relatives. 'For
                     my part,' says St. Teresa, 'I can not conceive what consolation a nun can find
                     in her relatives. By attachment to them she displeases God, and, without being
                     able to enjoy their amusements, she shares in all their troubles.'
                  "How applicable to you, O blessed sister! is this reflection of the saint! Oh!
                     what an excess of folly to imagine that you can not be happy without frequently
                     seeing your friends! Ah! if you keep aloof from them, what
                     torrents of consolation and happiness would your spouse, Jesus, infuse into
                     your soul! St. Mary Magdalene de Pazzi used to say that an abhorrence of
                        the grates should be the principal fruit of the communion of
                     religious. And as an evil spirit once said to the venerable sister, Mary
                     Villain, there is certainly no place where the devil does so much injury to
                     religious as in the parlor.*
                      Hence St. Mary Magdalene de Pazzi would not even pass through it; and
                     such was her hatred of it that she could not even bear to hear it mentioned.
                     Whenever she was obliged to go to the parlor, she would begin to weep, and say
                     to her novices, 'My dear children, pray to God for me, for I am called to the
                     grate.'
                  
                     
                     *
                        Parlatorium, the room where the grate
                        is.
                  
                  "But you will say, 'What am I to do? Am I never to see my friends? When they
                     visit me, must I send them away, and refuse to go to the grate?' I do not
                     require so much from you; but if you refused to see them, would you do
                        wrong—would you do what would be inconvenient, or what is never done
                     by religious?"
                  But another injunction is given by the same teacher in reference to intercourse
                     with relations at the grate, and we have reason to believe that the rule is
                     dwelt upon with much urgency in the instruction of nuns: "Be careful not to
                     make known to externs the internal concerns of the convent, and
                        particularly what may tend to the discredit of the Superior or the
                        sisters."
                  "Ah!" continues the saint, "what rapid progress in divine love does the religious make who
                     resolves NEVER to go to the grate. When you, O blessed sister! go to the
                     parlor, be careful at least to conduct yourself like a religious. In your
                     intercourse with seculars, you should not only guard with great care against
                        all affectionate expressions, but should also be very grave and
                     reserved in the parlor. St. Mary Magdalene de Pazzi wished her nuns to be as
                     uncultivated as the wild deer—these are her very words. And the venerable
                     sister Hyacinth Marescotti used to say, 'The courtesy of nuns consists in being
                     discourteous, by cutting short all discourses in the parlor.'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"The True Spouse," etc., p. 361-366.
                  
                  So much for the reliance to be placed upon the facilities of intercourse
                     between the "religious" and her relations as a means of redress or escape from
                     restraint. The author of the present narrative has stated how she herself was
                     directed and compelled to mislead her friends as to her true sentiments, and to
                     disguise from them all dissatisfaction with her position at the
                     institution.
               
               
                  V. DESPOTISM OF THE CONVENT.
                  There is another consideration, bearing, as we believe, with no slight force
                     upon the propriety of legislative action with reference to convents and other
                     establishments of like order. We refer to the extent of power irresponsibly
                     lodged in the hands of the superiors of those institutions, and wielded by them
                     with absolute sway over the moral and physical condition of individuals
                     completely abstracted from domestic and legal protection.
                  In these United States—for it is of them alone that we at present speak—all
                     women of sound mind born free, who have reached the age of discretion, and have
                     not forfeited by crime their civil rights, are supposed to live under the
                     shelter of laws, and to possess privileges of personal self-control. Besides
                     the guardianship of natural protectors—their fathers, husbands, and brothers,
                     who are generally those most interested in their well-being—they can at any
                     time invoke the interference of justice, and claim its covenanted defense.
                     Surrounded by relatives, neighbors, and friends, to whom they can instantly
                     appeal against even the possible abuse of authority at home, they are seldom
                     exposed to restraint, hardship, or maltreatment for any continued period.
                     Whatever the obligations of domestic regard, it is not understood that these
                     involve the relinquishment of personal will within reasonable and lawful
                     bounds. This fact, however, is not of universal application; for while, as a
                     rule, such freedom exists and is guaranteed by law to all American women, there
                     is an exception most significant and remarkable. We have in the United States a
                     considerable number of institutions, containing many hundreds of females, who
                     are under absolute and despotic control. These establishments are conducted by
                     persons exercising an assumed authority not committed to them by the civil
                     power, but lying beyond its cognizance, dispensing with its sanction, and
                     acknowledging no accountability to its courts. They come not under the head of
                     asylums, penitentiaries, or prisons. For those there are particular provisions
                     in our codes; they are open to official inspection and governed by official appointment, but such is
                     not the case here. The subjects of this discipline, though not culprits or
                     criminals, are adjudged to close seclusion and loss of natural immunities; like
                     them, they are immured for life or for a stated term, within buildings
                     surrounded by high walls, beyond which they can not proceed without permission;
                     like them, they are under control of superiors, who govern all their actions,
                     though undesignated and unrecognized for such purpose by the state. They are
                     not looked upon as apprentices or persons held to service according to any
                     known law of the land, yet they are bound by solemn vows and obligations to
                     absolute obedience and abandonment of choice and volition, without hesitancy or
                     reflection. For all the benefit they derive from the liberal institutions of
                     our country, they might as well be situated under the despotisms of the Old
                     World, or in a condition of avowed bondage.
                  There is, then, it can scarcely be denied, some ground for the inquiry, What
                     are these establishments, that they should exist among us outside of all civil
                     jurisdiction? What are these nunneries and religious houses, that the daughters
                     of freemen should be pent up within them like outcasts from society and
                     convicts of justice, yet unknown as such to the judges of our courts and the
                     legislators of our states? What is there so mysterious within those precincts
                     that there the domain of freedom does not extend, that there the light of
                     publicity can not enter, that from thence the voice of appeal to justice can
                     not be heard? What are these nunneries? Are they institutions recognized and
                     authorized for the public good by the government of our land? Why, then, are
                     they closed to an inspection that may insure against maladministration? why is
                     not their condition reported to the public for approval or censure? Or are they
                     establishments of a strictly private character, such as our schools and
                     associations of benevolence? Then wherefore should they arrogate to themselves
                     over adults of sound mind, guiltless of crime, a control of will and action
                     utterly incompatible with the enjoyment of civil freedom?
                  Until, as we apprehend will not soon be the case, there shall be enacted by our
                     Legislatures some special provision for the existence of institutions where
                     persons of free birth, good fame, and mental sanity may lawfully be confined,
                     restricted in their personal freedom, and subjected to absolute government of
                     will or physical coercion, however they may have been persuaded to consent at
                     the outset to such a course of discipline—until, we say, some such law shall be
                     added to our codes, the monastic system will continue to be as it is now,
                        illegal. There is at present nothing in our laws to warrant
                     that system. There is nothing that gives to any individual, whether priest or
                     layman, the privilege of exacting the bounden service of an American woman
                     under vow of absolute obedience. There is nothing there that entitles any
                     person, whether Abbot or Lady Superior, to deprive women of liberty and
                     restrain them from exit. There is nothing that provides even for such a
                     voluntary act of disfranchisement as would be involved in the complete
                     sacrifice of will required by the rules of the convent. That system is not only
                     opposed to the spirit of republican freedom, it is unknown to our civil polity,
                     and clearly ly hostile to every
                     principle of justice and right that belongs to our age.
                  It can not even be urged for the system of monastic discipline that it should
                     find countenance in a country where domestic servitude is recognized and made
                     legal. It may not be compared for a moment with that institution. There is no
                     part of our land where laws do not exist for the security of the slave in the
                     enjoyment of life and good treatment. There is no state of this Union where the
                     complete exercise of control over life, health, and virtue is vested in a
                     single individual so absolutely and without the shadow of responsibility as in
                     the case of the superiors of convents.
                  The advocates of these religious penitentiaries tell us, for the quieting of
                     all apprehension in the matter, that the objects of this discipline are most
                     pure and commendable, that their regulations are such as every one would
                     approve, that the sanctity of its design insures the excellence of the system.
                     Such is the argument of Mother Etienne, the Superior of St. Joseph's, and a
                     curious one it is. If such a line of defense could be set up in all such cases,
                     there would be few criminals found worthy of sentence. Grant that the
                     regulations of a society may be admirable in all respects: does that fact
                     secure their perfect execution? Does it do away with the necessity for any
                     check upon abuse and injustice under the system so wisely drawn up on paper?
                     Where is the judge of its actual agreement with these avowed regulations? Where
                     is the court of appeal for any complaint? What opportunity of redress for
                     particular grievances? The bishop or the Pope, doubtless; and whenever, thanks
                     to the secret workings of Jesuits, clerical and lay, our people shall be
                     prepared to establish the canon law of Rome in this country, then it will be
                     time to acknowledge the sufficiency of such a plea.
               
               
                  VI. INSTANCES OF ESCAPE.
                  Where absolute and arbitrary power resides in any fallible being, the chances
                     of its abuse are unquestionably great. Where restraint is imposed upon the
                     freedom of a considerable number of persons, it is quite probable that some,
                     however willing at the outset to submit, may finally become weary of their
                     bondage, and desire release. We have already adduced repeated acknowledgments
                     from Roman Catholic authorities to the effect that there are cases of reluctant
                     and constrained submission. We have only now to instance some few out of a
                     great number of such, where this oppression has been felt to exceed endurance,
                     and the desperate victim of the cloister has been driven to insanity, or to the
                     hazards of an attempt at escape.
                  A single fact of this nature might, to an impartial judgment, prove the
                     existence of those evils which we have been delineating. But these occurrences
                     have been frequent and notorious. How many similar attempts may have been
                     thwarted and concealed from public knowledge by the vigilance of those
                     interested in their suppression, we can only estimate from the frequency of
                     such as have proved successful.
                  On the 18th of August, 1839, a nun by the name of Olivia Neal, formerly of
                     Charles county, Maryland, but who had been for nineteen years a prisoner,
                        under the appellation of "Sister
                     Isabella," at the Carmelite nunnery in Aisquith Street, Baltimore, succeeded in
                     escaping from that institution. After being repulsed by several families, she
                     was received and protected by a worthy citizen living a few doors from the
                     convent. Efforts were immediately made by the confessor of the convent and
                     others to have access to the fugitive and convey her back. The rumor of this
                     fact having spread in the city, an immense crowd gathered around the house, and
                     signified their determination to prevent the abduction. The mayor and other
                     gentlemen having come to the spot, she was taken to a place of safety.
                  This nun stated to all who questioned her that she had entered the convent at a
                     very early age; that she had long desired to escape; that on one
                     occasion before she had gotten out, and was met and carried back by the priest.
                     She demanded, in a most earnest and touching manner, the protection of the
                     people.
                  The assertion was at once made by the authorities of the convent that Olivia
                     Neal, or "Sister Isabella," was out of her right mind. This plea is invariably
                     set up in similar cases. A physician was induced to state that she was a
                     "perfect maniac;" and five others united in the conflicting statement that she
                     was a "monomaniac," or at least afflicted with a "general
                        feebleness of intellect." Hundreds, however, of the most respectable
                     citizens of Baltimore concurred in declaring that Miss Neal gave every
                     indication of sanity, correct judgment, and resolute will.
                  The Reverend Robert J. Breckinridge, D. D., a distinguished and most estimable
                     clergyman of the Presbyterian byterian Church, was at that time a resident of
                     Baltimore, and was requested to have an interview with this escaped nun. He
                     thus relates it: "As we entered the room, he [a friend] said to her, 'This is
                     Mr. B.,' naming us. Her reply went to our heart. She extended her hands toward
                     us, and, repeating our name, said, almost convulsively, 'I claim your
                     protection!' We told her we had come to her for no other purpose.
                  "A rapid conversation, in which several took part, immediately ensued, from
                     which we learned, in substance, that her name was Olivia Neal, originally from
                     Charles county, Maryland, but now called 'Sister Isabella;' that she had been
                     put into the convent very young, and been in it nineteen years; that she had
                     been long anxiously trying to get out, and had once succeeded in
                     making her escape into the street, when she was met and forcibly carried
                        back, and subjected to severe penances; that, having again escaped,
                     her anxious desire was for present protection—a desire she repeatedly
                     expressed; that, however, she wished all to understand that she did not desire
                     to change her religion, but only her condition as a nun; that she
                     did not wish any violence offered either to the nuns or priests on her account,
                     against whom, indeed, she was not disposed to make any accusations; that she
                     felt agitated, and unfit for any extended conversation on the subject of her
                     past trials, and asked only for security, repose, and tranquillity, till she
                     could collect her faculties and decide on her future line of conduct, which was
                     the more necessary, she said, as they had told her that her mind was
                        weak; and that, having no
                     friends in whom she could confide, she was obliged to throw herself on the
                     public for protection.
                  "Much more was said, which we do not think it worth while to repeat at present;
                     but, as a sample of the general style of conversation, we will detail one item
                     more minutely. She was asked if a nun had not escaped some months ago. 'Yes; it
                     was I,' was her reply. 'How happens it that you were back again?' 'I was met by
                     a gentleman immediately after getting out, and carried back.' 'Who was that
                     gentleman?' No answer. 'Was it priest Gildea?' 'Yes, sir.' 'What was done to
                     you when you were carried back?' 'There are penances to undergo; I was
                     subjected to these.' 'Did they whip you?' No answer, but a mournful smile. 'Did
                     they imprison you?' 'I have said I endured the usual penance.' She was not
                     pressed farther on this painful subject, being evidently unwilling to speak
                     fully of it."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Papism in the United States. By Robert J. Breckinridge, D. D., p.
                        235-245.
                  
                  The sequel to this sad story of oppression and suffering exhibits the triumph
                     of Romish intrigue over the natural and legal rights of a feeble woman. A
                     distant relative was found who was willing to serve the purposes of priestly
                     craft. He came to Baltimore, obtained ex
                        parte certificates contradictory of each other, insufficient in
                     law or reason, none of which were sworn to, and no cross examination permitted;
                     on which certificates he took his kinswoman and placed her precisely where she
                     had most earnestly desired never to go again—under the power of the nuns and
                        priests.†
                      Nothing more has been heard of her for years. Miss Bunkley, in the
                     preceding narrative, mentions having seen in the asylum at Mount Hope a person
                     who, as she had reason to believe, was the unhappy "Sister Isabella."
                  
                     
                     †Papism, etc., p. 265.
                  
                  The author of this volume has also specified several instances of attempted
                     escape from the institution of St. Joseph at Emmettsburg. That of Helen Grier
                     is authenticated by unimpeachable witnesses.
                  Facts like the following have frequently met the eyes of our readers in the
                     public journals:
                  "On the night of the 18th of April, 1842, as a patrol was going along the
                     narrow street which runs by the side of the convent of the Bon Pasteur, in the
                     town of Ouest, in France, he found a girl lying on the pavement, and screaming
                     from the injury she had received by a fall in attempting to escape from the
                     convent through one of the upper windows by means of a sheet. On being taken to
                     the hospital, it was found that her leg was broken. When able to speak, she
                     said that, on account of a trifling disagreement with some of the nuns, she was
                     put into solitary confinement, and allowed only bread and water. Driven to
                     despair, she had contrived to force away the planks by which the window was
                     blinded, and attempted, in the manner described, to reach the ground."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Nuns and Nunneries, p. 216.
                  
                  "We have before us," says the writer upon whose authority we have stated the
                     above, "an octavo volume of four hundred pages, entitled 'Sœur Marie,
                     Benedictine,' published at Caen in 1846, written by an eminent French advocate,
                     M. Léon Tillard.
                  "Mademoiselle de Monnier, whose name 'in religion ion' was Sœur Marie Joseph, entered a
                     Benedictine convent at Bayeux at the age of twenty-one, in 1823, and, by her
                     superior education and talents, she became of great use to the convent. The
                     other sisters were ignorant and illiterate, and the new postulant was at once
                     placed in charge of the school. Under her care it greatly throve, and the
                     number of pupils rapidly increased. At length she assumed the veil. Several
                     changes took place in the convent, a new Lady Abbess came, and poor Sœur Marie
                     became the object of a long-continued persecution, beginning with things so
                     small as hardly to be perceptible, but which, like the dropping of water on the
                     stone, wore upon the mind of the wretched victim. She was removed from the
                     school, some nuns having joined the establishment who were better educated than
                     those originally there, and, after some time, no one was allowed to speak
                        to her. This was continued year after year. At last matters came to a
                     crisis; the Superior provoked Sister Marie, drew her into an altercation, and
                     then declaring that she was mad, had her seized by the gardener
                     and others, and locked up in a small cell. The physician of the convent was
                     sent for, and, without having seen the victim, signed a certificate declaring
                     her to be mad. In the dead of the night she was roused from her cell, carried
                     off in a carriage to the Bon Sauveur at Bayeux, and there placed among the
                     insane on the strength of this certificate. The physician of this new asylum,
                     however, soon found that she was perfectly sane, and at length dismissed her at
                     her own earnest entreaty. But where was she to go? She returned to her old
                     convent, but there they would not receive her. She appealed to priests and
                     bishops, to nuns and abbesses, but every door was closed against her except the
                     mad-house of the Bon Sauveur. M. Tillard generously took up her cause, and
                     endeavored to obtain justice for her. But all in vain. Worn out, harassed, and
                     persecuted, poor Sœur Marie at length became duly qualified for the Bon
                     Sauveur. Her mind failed her, and she is now within its walls, a harmless
                        lunatic!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Nuns and Nunneries, p. 219-223.
                  
                  In these facts, strikingly analogous to those connected with the case of the
                     unhappy Olivia Neal, we see more manifestly the design of the tyrannical and
                     merciless autocrat of the convent, working by incessant annoyances the mental
                     ruin of the object of her hatred, until at length, successful in destroying the
                     power of thought and will, her victim is reduced to the living death of a
                     maniac.
               
               
                  VII. LETTER FROM DR. DE SANCTIS.
                  We have now to present some extracts from a letter addressed to the editor of
                     this work by the distinguished and excellent Dr. De Sanctis, who occupied for
                     many years the post of curate of the church of the Maddalena at Rome, was
                     "qualificator" of the Inquisition, censor of the Theological Academy in the
                     Roman University, and filled other prominent offices of trust in the service of
                     the Church of Rome. He was in this capacity commissioned by the Cardinal Vicar
                     to preach and hear confessions in the convents of that city; and during ten
                     years and more, passed scarcely a day in which he did not exercise these
                        functions tions at some one or
                     more of those institutions. Written by one so competent to speak from personal
                     observation upon the subject of monasticism, and so worthy of trust as an able
                     and faithful minister of the Gospel since his conversion from Roman Catholic
                     error, we are sure that these statements will command the attention of our
                     readers.
                  
                     THE CONVENT A PRISON OF DELUSIONS.
                     "The convents of Rome may be designated as prisons—horrible prisons of
                        religious delusion. This statement will require some explanation. A young
                        girl at Rome, who is to any degree interested in religion, if she receives
                        her education at a convent, must absolutely remain there forever, as I shall
                        hereafter explain; or, if not so educated, must necessarily enter a convent
                        in the end. The Roman Catholic priest knows nothing of conjugal love in its
                        holy and chaste character, and for this very reason he hates it, he detests
                        it, often with the utmost sincerity and perfect good faith. The declamations
                        of the priests, whether from the pulpit or the confessional, against this
                        love, are of a nature to make one shudder. These men are truly to be pitied:
                        ignorant as they are of the pure, the legitimate affection of the married
                        state, and knowing only of a sensual and bestial passion, they have reason
                        to declaim against such love. The young girl who blindly follows the path of
                        piety, blindly believes the priest; for want of experience, she can not
                        distinguish the innocent from the guilty affection; and when she feels the
                        first impulses of that love which would lead her to become a wife and a
                        mother, she confesses to the priest as a grave offense those sentiments
                        which pertain to the normal state in which God has framed her being. And the
                        confessor, most generally from ignorance, and with honest persuasion,
                        augments this uneasiness, declaring that this impulse is a temptation of the
                        devil in order to eradicate the love of Christ. He intimates that there is
                        no better method of overcoming such temptation than to fly from a world
                        which is but a troubled sea, and to withdraw into the haven of security, to
                        wit, the convent. And here he commences to adduce before the kindled
                        imagination of his charge all those mystic incidents, examples, histories,
                        and revelations, of which the legendary literature of asceticism is full,
                        thus inflaming the mind of the young penitent, and convincing her that there
                        is no harbor of safety for her soul other than the state of a recluse. All
                        that she sees in the world without becomes to her an object of aversion. The
                        persons most endeared by natural affection—father, mother, brothers—become
                        odious, and she longs for the moment when she may inclose herself within
                        those sacred walls, where alone she now hopes to find peace and salvation.
                        The world is represented to her as a wild and corrupt stream, flowing with
                        impetuous current before her, while the convent, overlooking it, offers the
                        only secure retreat. Her father, her brother, her sisters are being carried
                        away by the river; for her there is safety only there. The dream lasts a
                        while after she has entered, and then it disappears; the abode of peace is
                        transformed into a perpetual prison, where a life pays for the religious
                        delusion of a day.
                     "Many young girls are drawn to the convents in this manner, but there are others, and
                        perhaps these constitute a majority, who are attracted in a different way.
                        Many, to whom nature has denied those external graces and charms which
                        captivate the regard of men, finding themselves neglected, and conscious of
                        an irresistible need of loving some object, seek to be loved, as they say,
                        by our Lord Jesus Christ. 'The heart of Jesus' is the chosen devotion of
                        such. It is after this fashion that the 'heart of Jesus' is represented at
                        Rome. Our Lord is depicted as a young man of marvelous beauty, who, with a
                        heart shining with love, seen transparent in his breast, invites with the
                        most winning look. The young girl who has not met with a response in the
                        regard of men, enthusiastically begins to cherish an affection for this
                        picture and object. The priests know well how to encourage such a tendency;
                        they place in her hands the lives of St. Teresa and other visionaries, who
                        relate their intercourse with a heavenly spouse, and already she hopes that
                        a like experience will be hers. Another need that she feels is that of
                        making some human heart the depository of her thoughts and emotions, and for
                        want of a lover she chooses as a confidant her confessor. With him she
                        spends whole hours of every day in secret colloquies, and, supposing the
                        confessor to be a saint, according to the Romish idea, the unavoidable
                        result of all this is that she will go into a convent. The dream after a
                        while is scattered, and there remains the sad reality of a perpetual prison
                        as the fruit of a religious delusion.
                     "There is a third class of young persons, who, being educated from childhood
                        in the nunnery, remain there, and become nuns without knowing why, and give
                        up with alacrity a world which they have never seen. By what arts and wiles
                        they are drawn into this course I shall relate elsewhere, when I come to
                        speak of the education given in convents.
                  
                  
                     MORALITY OF THE CONVENTS IN ROME.
                     "Such is, for the most part, the method by which the convents of Rome are
                        peopled. I must now say a few words respecting the morality of those
                        institutions.
                     "That there have occurred some flagrant abuses of this nature, and more
                        especially in convents where the education of the young is prosecuted, can
                        not be denied. Two fearful examples have taken place within my own
                        recollection, the general publicity of which created a painful excitement.
                        The one occurred at the Convent of 'San Dionisio alle quattro Fontane,' an
                        establishment of nuns affiliated with the Jesuits, in which the confessor
                        pursued a most infamous course in relation to a large number of young
                        persons under the care of that institution. The other case was that of the
                        'Conservatorio della Divina Providenza,' where the confessor seduced no
                        fewer than sixteen of the most beautiful persons educated in that convent.
                        As a general thing, however, the convent (so far as Rome is concerned) is
                        neither, on the one hand, a terrestrial paradise inhabited by angels, nor,
                        on the other hand, is it generally a place of open and shameless crime.
                     "An event of no unfrequent occurrence in the convent is the 'spiritual
                        assistance' of the sick. When a
                        nun is dangerously ill, the confessor, director, or another priest spends
                        the night at the institution. Often it will happen that, in a case of
                        sickness, fifteen or sixteen successive nights are thus spent. This has
                        happened more than once to myself. In the convent there are generally two
                        well-furnished rooms for such a contingency: the one is a small parlor,
                        conveniently arranged, where the confessor eats; the other a bed-room,
                        where, also, nothing is omitted for his comfort. The supper of the reverend
                        father confessor is no ordinary one; it consists of all the niceties of food
                        that are to be procured. While the holy man is at his meal, several nuns
                        will be standing around him, urging him to eat this and drink that. Supper
                        over, the father goes to see the patient, sprinkles her with holy water, and
                        then retires to his bed. The doors are left open, in order that he may
                        readily be called should the invalid grow worse. I can not say that all
                        precautions are taken in such cases, nor that disorders fail to occur, and
                        that with sufficient frequency. I can only state matters as I know them to
                        exist.
                     "And here I may incidentally mention a fact that will surprise the good
                        Christian people of America, although at Rome it appears quite natural. In
                           Carnival,*
                         the inmates of all the convents are permitted the masquerade. The
                        monks who act as confessors send their habits to their respective nuns, who
                        put them on, and enact a thousand ridiculous scenes. Any one can understand
                        the indecency, and, to speak more clearly, the immorality of such
                        procedures; but this is nothing: on the contrary, it seems so natural that a
                        nun who should fail to join in these amusements would be regarded as
                        over-scrupulous even by her confessor himself. In convents devoted to
                        education, there are, besides these, theatrical performances, and comedies
                        are recited. To these representations are admitted the confessors, priests,
                        monks, and the relatives of the nuns and pupils. On such occasions you would
                        see some one of these young girls ornamented with mustaches, declaiming the
                        part of an officer, and dressed in uniform, while another would take the
                        character of a lover, etc., etc. In convents where superior sanctity is
                        affected, profanations still greater are committed. There are given dramatic
                        entertainments called sacred, and these are nothing less than Scripture
                        facts set forth in comedy. There you would see a young girl assuming the
                        part of Moses, another that of Aaron, thus turning into ridicule those holy
                        characters, and casting contempt upon the word of God itself. I once saw at
                        one of these places a young person who represented an angel, while another
                        filled the rôle of the devil. Between them they concocted a dialogue so
                        ludicrous that every body was exploding with laughter.
                     
                        
                        *A period of five or six days preceding Lent, during which, in Roman
                           Catholic countries, every species of merriment and buffoonery is
                           tolerated.
                     
                  
                  
                     HEALTH IN THE CONVENTS OF ROME.
                     "In order to make what I have to say respecting these institutions more
                        clear, let me divide them into two classes: the one consisting of those
                        where the inmates have no other occupation besides prayer, the other in
                        which they are employed in giving instruction to the young.
                     
                     "With regard to the former class, we must again distinguish those convents
                        where the rigor of discipline is carried to such an excess of fanaticism as
                        to tread under foot the most sacred laws of nature; and here I do not speak
                        of individual excesses of fanaticism, but of abuses belonging to the
                        community itself, approved and sanctioned by the Superiors of the
                        institution.
                     "There is at Rome, in the 'Regione de' Monti,' in a spot almost unknown to
                        the world, a convent entitled that of the 'Vive
                           Sepolte' ('buried alive');*
                         and the miserable inmates are really in the condition expressed by
                        their name. Once admitted within those walls, it may be said of them, 
                           "'Leave hope behind, all ye who enter here.'
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        *More properly, "Religiose Francescane dette 'Vive
                           Sepolte.'"
                     
                     "They are indeed buried alive. They come to confession, but a
                        double grating, the one at a considerable distance from the other, an iron
                        plate punctured with small holes between the confessor and the penitent,
                        through which the voice can scarcely pass, and a black cloth fastened upon
                        this plate to intercept even the rays of light—such is the mode in which the
                        confession takes place. When these nuns commune, they present themselves at
                        a small window, about half the size of the countenance; and there, with a
                        thick woolen cloth over the face, suffering only the tongue to be seen, they
                        receive the element from the hand of the priest. In case of sickness, they
                        are led into a room called the infirmary, and there the physician prescribes
                        for his patient through an aperture in the wall. If he wishes to feel the
                        pulse or draw blood, the arm of the invalid must be extended to him through
                        the aperture.
                     The physician of this convent related to me these facts as I was visiting
                        the institution, and stated that many of the nuns had died in consequence of
                        these impediments to a proper medical attendance. He told me that on one
                        occasion, indignant at this suicidal course, he went to Cardinal Patrizi,
                        the patron of this convent, who replied to his complaint that there was no
                        need of interference, these persons being, not suicides, but victims
                           of holy modesty.
                     
                     "When the nun enters this establishment, she is, I have said, 'buried
                           alive.' She must henceforth know nothing of her relatives. Once in
                        the year it is allowed that relatives of the first degree present themselves
                        at the monastery, and speak in the hearing of the recluse; they may not,
                        however, see the countenance of their daughter or sister. When a near
                        relative of a nun dies, the Mother Superior, on the evening after that
                        event, says at prayers, 'My sisters, let us pray for the soul of the father,
                        or mother, or brother of one of our number, who died yesterday or to-day;'
                        and it is not permitted that any one know who it is that has died: hence
                        each imagines that it may be her own father, mother, or brother; and in this
                        uncertainty she is left, in order that she may, with more fervor, from day
                        to day, pray for the deceased. Such is the abuse that fanaticism makes of
                        religion! But things of this sort are not generally known or believed, and
                        for this reason I state and affirm the facts. If you should publish them, do
                        so with my name, as I am willing to be responsible for them.
                     
                     "When a youth, I resided in the neighborhood of this convent, and I remember
                        that one day the Pope, Leo XII., made an unexpected visit to the
                        institution. It excited much curiosity in the quarter to know the occasion
                        of this visit, which was as follows: A woman had an only daughter who had
                        taken the veil in that convent. Left a widow, she came often to the
                        institution, and with a mother's tears besought that she might be allowed,
                        if not to see, at least to hear the voice of her daughter. What request more
                        just and more sacred from a mother? But what is there of sacredness and
                        justice that fanaticism does not corrupt? The daughter sent word by the
                        confessor to her mother that if she did not cease to importune her, she
                        would refuse to speak to her even on the day when she would be allowed to do
                        so. That day at length arrived; the widowed mother was the first to present
                        herself at the door of the convent, and she was told that she could not see
                        her daughter. In despair, she asked Why? No answer. Was she sick? No reply.
                        Was she dead? Not a word. The miserable mother conjectured that her daughter
                        was dead. She ran to the Superiors to obtain at least the privilege of
                        seeing her corpse, but their hearts were of iron. She went to the Pope: a
                        mother's tears touched the breast of Leo XII., and he promised her that on
                        the following morning he would be at the convent and ascertain the fact. He
                        did so, as I have said, unexpectedly to all. Those doors, which were
                        accustomed to open only for the admittance of a fresh victim, opened that
                        day to the head of the Church of Rome. Seeing the wretched mother who was
                        the occasion of this visit, he called her to him, and ordered her to follow
                        him into the nunnery. The daughter, who, by an excess of barbarous
                        fanaticism, thought to please Heaven by a violation of the holiest laws of
                        nature, concealed herself upon hearing that her mother had entered the
                        convent. The Pope called together in a hall the entire sisterhood, and
                        commanded them to lift the veils from their faces. The mother's heart
                        throbbed with vehemence; she looked anxiously from face to face once and
                        again, but her daughter was not there. She believed now that she was dead,
                        and, with a piercing cry, fell down in a swoon. While she was reviving, the
                        Pope peremptorily asked the Mother Superior whether the daughter was dead or
                        alive. She replied, at length, that she was yet living, but having vowed to
                        God that she would eradicate every carnal affection from her breast, she was
                        unwilling even to see her mother again. It was not until the Pope ordered
                        her appearance, in virtue of the obedience due to him, and upon pain of
                        mortal sin, that the nun came forth. This outrage upon human nature, which
                        might have resulted in parricide, is denominated in the vocabulary of
                        monasticism 'virtue in heroic degree.'
                     "Besides the convent of the 'Vive
                        Sepolte," there are at Rome other institutions of a similar cast;
                        for example, that of the Capuchin nuns of San Urbano, those of Monte
                        Cavallo, the Teresians of San Giuseppe a Capo le case, those of San Eligio
                        in Trastevere, and so forth. Numbers of these poor wretches every year
                        commit suicide through a false spirit of penitence. They go without
                        necessary food; they wear haircloth when nature demands restoratives; they
                        refuse themselves selves remedies
                        which would arrest disease, and this from a false modesty which forbids the
                        communicating of their ailments to the physician. Many have I known to die
                        of such procedure. You will call these nuns poor victims of delusion; the
                        world will call them mad; but, in the dictionary of the convent, they are
                        termed 'holy martyrs of sacred modesty.'
                     "I will not relate to you all the minutiæ of the convent life; it would take
                        a volume instead of a letter to do so. Imagine what must be an establishment
                        where fifty or sixty women live, as it were, in a prison—women brought
                        together without knowledge of one another, gnawing the curb of an
                        imprisonment which they affect to make appear voluntary, and which they seek
                        to persuade themselves is such—and you will perceive what must be the nature
                        of their life.* * * * Suicide by means of the rope or poison is not a very
                        frequent occurrence in nunneries at Rome, but a species of suicide little
                        known to the world is most frequent there: I mean that which proceeds from
                        imprudent penances, the injurious repression of innocent affections, the
                        persistent effort to contradict and thwart nature in every possible mode,
                        the refusal, from false modesty, to make known, for medical advice, whatever
                        maladies may occur—these and other reasons suffice to account for the fact
                        that a very considerable proportion of nuns perish in youth, and so many
                        others drag through years an existence of continued ailments and
                        infirmities.
                  
                  
                     THE NUNS AND THEIR CONFESSORS.
                     "There are other convents of 'contemplative life'—such is the appellation
                        given to those where the principal occupation is or ought to be prayer—in
                        which matters proceed quite differently from the 'Vive Sepolte.' At such
                        institutions you would see, from early in the morning till evening, a string
                        of priests and monks going and coming; these are the confessors
                        of the nuns. To enable you to understand this more clearly, let me say that
                        for each convent there is a confessor, so called. This confessor is a
                        priest, appointed by the bishop and supported by the nunnery, who must
                        always be at the convent for the 'spiritual direction' of its inmates. He is
                        the pastor of the community, and all ought, according to rule, to confess to
                        him. But it is not the practice of nuns to confess to the ordinary
                        confessor. Each one has her own in particular, and some have two or three;
                        but these particular confessors can not be called by that name; they are
                        termed 'directors.' Each 'director,' as he reaches the institution, is
                        received by his nun, who, if it be in the morning, regales him with a cup of
                        excellent chocolate, or, after dinner, with refreshments, of which
                        sweetmeats always form a part. While this holy director is eating, his nun
                        converses with him; ordinarily the interview lasts about half an hour; then
                        they go and shut themselves up in a confessional, where they remain at least
                        an hour. This occurs at least twice a week, and often every day. The
                        conversation is commonly any thing but religious; it is apt to consist
                        chiefly of small-talk and scandal.
                  
                  
                     
                     EDUCATION AT CONVENTS.
                     "I have promised to speak of those convents which are devoted to education
                        and instruction. Nearly all the nunneries contain some young persons who are
                        in process of education, and are supported there by their relatives for this
                        purpose; but there are convents which have for their principal scope the
                        instruction of youth. For these institutions the description I have given of
                        the others will, in general, answer to the truth; but it must be added that
                        the young persons receiving their education at the convent do not know all
                        that takes place in the establishment. They live in a particular portion of
                        it, separate from the greater part of the nuns, whom they see only in the
                        choir and at the refectory. They are under the charge of a nun who
                        superintends their education.
                     "But wherein does this education consist? Culture of intellect
                        they can not derive from the reading of ascetic books, legendaries, lives of
                        the saints, and particularly from those works which speak of the felicities
                        of the monastic life and the horrors of the world. In their tender minds
                        this is the cardinal idea inculcated, that outside of the cloister it is
                        almost impossible to find salvation. All books save those that speak of
                        these things are absolutely prohibited. Hence geography, history, and all
                        other branches of useful and necessary knowledge are completely banished
                        from these places as worldly studies.
                     "The culture of the heart is shockingly profaned. Ignoring the
                        life of the family, they learn to detest it. With the pretext that every
                        human relation is profane, they alienate themselves, under the garb of
                        sanctity, from parental love. They love none but those whom they believe to
                        stand in the place of God—the confessor foremost of all, and then the mother
                        mistress. Should one of these young persons leave the convent and marry (I
                        relate what I have known in many cases), broils and strifes arise in the
                        domestic circle. She refuses to obey her husband until the confessor has
                        instructed her in matrimonial duties, and has commanded her to obey. Is this
                        always innocence? I answer, No.
                     
                     "For a young girl educated in a convent to be a good wife and a good mother
                        is a thing most rare. At Rome it is a common saying, 'Do you want a
                        faithless woman? Marry a girl brought up at a nunnery.' This rule has its
                        exceptions, but be assured they are exceptions; fifteen years of experience
                        at the confessional have taught me this. Such a person can not be a good
                        mother, because, not educated in the family, she knows nothing of domestic
                        life. She can not be a good housekeeper, because the superintendence of a
                        household is something to her quite new. Few are the husbands who have not
                        speedy cause to repent of marrying a young girl just out of the convent.
                        With regard to work, the nuns teach only how to embroider church cloths.
                     "There is some difference, however, in the case of those convents which are
                        destined more particularly for the education of the young. Of this nature
                        there are at Rome the nunnery of 'Torre di Specchi,' for the high
                        aristocracy; that of the 'Sacred Heart,' embracing all classes of persons;
                        and that of the 'Ursulines
                        lines,' for the middle class. At the 'Sacred Heart,' the instruction given
                        is certainly better than at other convents; but let us examine its
                        character. Geography is taught; it may, however, be denominated geography
                        applied to Jesuitism. Respecting every country and kingdom described, it is
                        explained whether there be Jesuits in it, how much good they have done if
                        there, how much evil has resulted if they have been driven away. History is
                        taught; with the sole design, however, of convincing that Popery and
                        Jesuitism are the only source of all good, and that where these have not
                        been found, every crime and horror has thriven. Thus the young mind is so
                        thoroughly imbued with prejudice, that it shudders at the bare mention of
                        Henry the Eighth, Cromwell, or Washington. The religious instruction
                        consists of weak superstitions. She who can best adorn the image of her
                        favorite saint, whom she changes every month, is the most devout.
                  
                  
                     NATURAL AFFECTIONS DESTROYED.
                     "That, however, which constitutes the chief object of instruction, and
                        wherein the nuns wonderfully succeed, is the eradication of filial love and
                        respect, to be supplanted by a blind obedience to the priests. And thus it
                        is that they proceed. Two principal motives are brought into play for this
                        purpose—pride and religion. They begin by exalting the freedom of the
                        individual. They say that it is a gift of God, and we must not suffer it to
                        be taken away. A doctrine most true; but listen to the application. The
                        parents of the young girl propose to her, for instance, a match, it may be
                        most desirable. The young girl has been taught to look upon this proposal as
                        an attempt upon her individual liberty, and she accordingly declines. Her
                        parents endeavor to persuade her; they urge that they do not wish to compel
                        her assent, but only recommend what seems for the best. She, however, has
                        learned from the nuns a quantity of stories about young people who have been
                        rendered miserable by acceding to the will of their parents, and she
                        persists in her refusal. The parents then are obliged to go to the
                           confessor, and obtain of him that he will persuade the young
                        girl. The confessor gathers information respecting the person in question,
                        and if the match suit the Jesuits, the young girl will be persuaded,
                        otherwise her disinclination will increase. Say what you will of the father
                        and mother being her best friends, the most deserving of confidence—domestic
                        life has become extinguished in the convent; for its inmate there is no
                        father but the confessor, no mother but the 'mistress mother.'
                     "But, beside this motive of self-will, that of religion is brought in to set
                        aside the parental right. This seems incredible; it is nevertheless a fact.
                        The favorite principle that constitutes the theme of the exhortations of the
                        'mistress mother' is the explanation—I should say, rather, the infamous
                        perversion, of a passage in the Gospel, 'He that loveth father or mother
                        more than me, is not worthy of me.' From this text they inculcate upon these
                        youthful minds that when they feel themselves inspired to do or not to do
                        any thing, they are not to listen to their parents, who may command or
                        counsel them against that inspiration tion, otherwise they would love father or
                        mother more than Jesus Christ, and render themselves unworthy of him. Then,
                        to assure themselves of such inspiration, there is but one method—to consult
                        the confessor. The confessor, being consulted, replies that first of all it
                        is requisite to spend some time in prayer; he therefore prescribes a
                           'novena' [nine days' devotion] to the
                        'Sacred Heart,' or to some favorite saint; meanwhile he ascertains the facts
                        of the case. If the result of this inquiry be favorable, and the young girl
                        feels herself inspired to say No, then he shows her that the
                        inspiration is a temptation which must be withstood. If his decision be
                        negative, then the opinion of the confessor, harmonizing with the
                           no of the young girl, proves it to be a real inspiration
                        from God. The whole family may go to ruin, it matters not, because 'he that
                        loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me.'
                     "With such principles as these, a young person educated at a convent becomes
                        a blind instrument in the hands of the Jesuits. Imagine how good a daughter,
                        wife, and mother she will prove.
                     "I have thus given you, dear sir, a rapid sketch of the nunneries of Rome. I
                        can assure you that I have stated only what I have seen and known from close
                        observation, to the truth of which I pledge myself. Believe me your devoted
                        servant and brother in Jesus Christ,
                     
                        L. DE SANCTIS, D. D.,
                        "Minister of the Holy Gospel.
                        "LONDON, Sept. 20th, 1855."
                     
                  
               
               
                  VIII. REFORMATION OF CONVENTS.
                  If the testimony of individual witnesses, well authenticated, be yet deemed
                     insufficient in proof of the abuses incidental to monasticism, we have only to
                     conclude with a brief review of the legislation that has been found necessary,
                     at almost every period of ecclesiastical history, for the redress of evils that
                     have become too flagrant to be concealed.
                  Whether by individuals high in office in the Church of Rome, or through the
                     interference of civil rulers, there have been attempted numerous reforms of the
                     monastic orders and checks upon the excessive corruption into which the ascetic
                     system has always shown an inherent proneness to run.
                  History tells us that in the Middle Ages luxury and vice grew to such a pitch
                     that new rules were at various epochs introduced, for the express purpose of
                     restoring a discipline which had given way to every imaginable irregularity.
                     With this view, the monastery of Clugny, in Burgundy, was founded in 910, and a
                     considerable number of monasteries in Spain, Italy, and Germany were reformed
                     on the same model, while other institutions were based upon new schemes and
                     stricter regulations. These, in turn, acquiring by their special repute for
                     sanctity fresh influence and wealth, became proud and luxurious, and demanded,
                     by their mutual dissensions and jealousies, the frequent interposition of
                     successive popes. When the sixteenth century dawned, the condition of these
                     orders, for the most part, was not less debased than in the darkest age
                     preceding. The enormities developed
                     oped by the light of the Reformation in connection with the monasteries of
                     Germany, Scotland, and Italy, disgusted all enlightened men with the entire
                     system, and amply justified its abolishment in Protestant countries.
                  It was not in these alone, however, that the urgency of reform in the monastic
                     organizations became obvious with the spread of intelligence and cultivation
                     throughout the countries of Europe. Statesmen of Roman Catholic governments
                     became convinced that insufferable injuries to the welfare of nations were
                     necessarily connected with the unrepressed growth of the so-called "religious"
                     orders. The effect of this system upon the increase of population, by the
                     encouragement held out to celibacy; upon general industry, by the unproductive
                     idleness of those who thus lived on the earnings of others; upon the general
                     thrift and wealth, by their incessant grasping at the estates of the rich; and
                     upon public morals, by the crimes notoriously committed within their walls—all
                     this was apparent to the Roman Catholic legislators of the eighteenth century.
                     In 1781, the houses of some monastic orders were wholly abolished by Joseph II.
                     of Austria; and those which he suffered to remain were limited to a certain
                     number of inmates, and cut off from all communication with any foreign
                        authority.*
                      In 1790, the abolition of all religious orders was decreed in France,
                     and the example was soon followed by the majority of the Roman Catholic states
                     of Europe. In our own day, the republics of South America have followed in this
                     career of reform; and still later, Sardinia and Spain have enacted laws for the
                     suppression of monasteries. In the former kingdom there were nearly four
                     hundred of these haunts of idleness, containing some forty thousand monks and
                     nuns, and holding more than one half of the real estate of the realm,
                        exempt from taxation! The perseverance of the government in effecting
                     this reform has brought upon it the impotent threat of excommunication from the
                     Pope. In Spain, the Cortes have passed, by large majorities, a bill for the
                     sale of a considerable amount of ecclesiastical property.
                  
                     
                     *To the disgrace of modern civilization, a concordat has just been effected [in the autumn of 1855]
                        between Austria and the Pope, by which the restoration of all these
                        monastic establishments is authorized, and the control of education
                        committed to the hands of the Jesuits.
                  
                  We have room only to signalize, in passing, some of the developments of vice
                     and crime made in the course of these various attempts to redress a system of
                     innate corruption and propensity to perpetual deterioration. To go back no
                     farther than 1489, in the reign of Henry VII. of England, a bull was issued by
                     Pope Innocent VIII. for the "reformation of monasteries." In this decree the
                     pontiff states that he has heard with deep displeasure that many monasteries in
                     England have relapsed from their rules, and that many of their inmates, having
                     put away from themselves the fear of God, and given themselves up to a
                     reprobate mind, lead a lascivious and too dissolute life. The facts by which
                     this declaration is corroborated in the history of English monasteries and
                     nunneries are too revolting for reproduction in our pages. The enormous vices
                     that led to the visitation and suppression of these establishments in the
                     succeeding reign of Henry VIII. are
                     well known. With regard to Germany and France in the preceding period, repeated
                     bulls of popes and decrees of councils have stereotyped the evidence of the
                     fact of a total and general depravation of morals in the conventual houses of
                     men and women throughout those countries.
                  As late as the close of the past century, an Italian prelate, Scipione de
                     Ricci, bishop of Pistoja and Prato, undertook the reform of certain flagrant
                     disorders existing in his own diocese. For years this excellent man labored to
                     accomplish the work of expurgation. The irregularities of life which he has
                     depicted in his memoirs as of common occurrence among the Dominican nuns of
                     Tuscany are positively frightful. Crimes unexampled and unheard of were rife
                     within those secret inclosures. The access and intercourse of the monks of the
                     corresponding order was attended with every variety of immoral behavior. But
                     these evils were not of a day's growth. As far back as 1642, petitions were on
                     record, addressed to the then Grand Duke, and signed by the representatives of
                     the people of Pistoja, asking for a prompt remedy of the outrages upon decency
                     and religion notoriously committed at these institutions. These repeated
                     records, says Ricci, "showed that the spiritual ruin was beyond description,
                     arising from the familiarity which existed between the monks and the nuns, and
                     from the facility of ingress to the convents which the monks
                        enjoyed.
                     *
                      They ate and drank with those who were their favorites and the most
                     devoted to them, remaining with them tête-à-tête in some cell, and even sleeping
                     
                        
                        *The reader may for himself compare these statements, and those of Dr. De
                           Sanctis to the same effect, with the intimations contained in Chapter
                           XXVIII. of the preceding narrative. Reason and reflection, however
                           involuntarily, can not but pause at this singular adaptation and
                           correspondence of male and female orders in the monastic scheme. The
                           shop-keepers at Rome have for sale a "panorama" of the various
                           fraternities existing in that city. In these colored prints there will be
                           seen, on opposite pages, in their correlative garb, the "Olivetani" Monks
                           and "Olivetane" Nuns; the "Agostiniani" and the "Penitenti di S.
                           Agostino;" the "Domenicani" and the "Monache di S. Domenico;" the
                           "Carmelitani" and the "Carmelitane;" the Capuchins, Carthusians,
                           Franciscans, Trinitarians, etc., etc., male and female, each confronting
                           the other in good fellowship and loving recognition, like lawful man and
                           wife in decent Christian wedlock. It is a general arrangement of
                           Romanism, and apparently not without some significance and propriety, to
                           establish in contiguous positions the male and female institutions of
                           those particular orders, who observe the same "rule," and derive their
                           sanction from the same founder. Thus we have the institutions of the
                           Lazarists and Sisters of Charity both at Emmettsburg, Maryland. The
                           brethren are the confessors of the sisterhood. They have the same
                           official head, and are regulated by the same system. "The
                              Superior-General of the Congregation of the Mission, or Lazarists,
                              is ex officio Superior-General of the Daughters of
                                 Charity; and hence their direction is confided, when practicable, to a
                                 clergyman who is a Lazarist." These words are not an inference
                           of our own, but the statement of the Rev. Charles I. White, D. D., in his
                           "Life of Mrs. Seton, Foundress and first Superior of the Sisters or
                           Daughters of Charity in the United States of America," published by
                           Dunigan & Brother, New York, 1853; page 464, note. Now
                           all this would be well enough, and perfectly unexceptionable and
                           praiseworthy, if it had but the sanction of God's ordinance instituted
                           expressly for the consecrating of this sort of relationship and mutuality
                           of rule and life. Then it would be legal—then it would be holy; for
                           "marriage is honorable in all, but"—"God will judge."
                        Nor let it be said that we are conjecturing where there is neither fact
                           nor probability to support. Of the facts, as already in some
                           small part specified, and elsewhere accessible in detail, the reader is
                           competent to judge. Of the PROBABILITIES, hear the acknowledgments of the
                           distinguished Roman Catholic historian, Dr. Lingard:
                        "This scheme of monastic polity," says he, "singular as it may now
                           appear, was once adopted in most Catholic countries. Its origin may be
                           ascribed to the severity with which the founders of religious orders have
                           always prohibited every species of unnecessary intercourse between their
                           female disciples and persons of the other sex. To prevent it
                              entirely was impracticable. The functions of the sacred
                           ministers had always been the exclusive privilege of the men, and they
                           alone were able to support the fatigues of husbandry and conduct the
                           extensive estates which many convents had received from
                           the piety of their benefactors. But it was conceived that the difficulty
                           might be diminished, if it could not be removed; and,
                           with this view, some monastic legislators devised the plan of
                           establishing double monasteries. In the
                           vicinity of the edifice destined to receive the virgins
                           who had dedicated their chastity to God, was erected a building for the
                           residence of a society of monks or canons, whose duty it was to officiate
                           at the altars and superintend the external economy of the community. The
                           mortified and religious life, to which they had bound themselves by the
                           most solemn engagements, was supposed to render them superior
                              to TEMPTATION; and, to remove even the suspicion of evil, they
                           were strictly forbidden to enter the inclosure of the women except on
                           particular occasions, with the permission of the Superior, and in the
                           presence of witnesses. But the Abbess retained the supreme control over
                           the monks as well as the nuns: their Prior depended on her choice, and
                           was bound to regulate his conduct by her
                           instructions."—Anglo-Saxon Church, vol. i., p. 173.
                      in the convent, in a room, indeed, set apart,
                     but still within the cloisters." Addressing a cardinal, Ricci says farther: "In
                     writing to the Pope, I would not enter into infamous details which would
                     horrify you. Yet what have not these wretched Dominican monks been guilty of?
                     Provincials, priors, all alike, instead of remedying the disorders committed by
                     the confessors, have either allowed or else themselves committed the same
                     iniquities."
                  It must be added that all Ricci's efforts to reform the convents of Tuscany
                     were vain. Upheld by his enlightened sovereign, he was thwarted by all around
                     him; and when that prince was called from the ducal throne of Tuscany to the
                     imperial throne of Austria, Ricci was left helpless among his enemies. He was
                     forced to abdicate his see, and, after enduring much persecution and
                     imprisonment, he ended by abjectly humbling himself before the Pope, and
                     signing a full recantation drawn up for him at Rome.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *
                        Nuns and Nunneries; Sketches compiled entirely from Romish
                        authorities. London, 1852. Pages 242-273.
                  
                  One addition to this painful recital, and we close. In our own times, within a
                     year past, a revelation of monastic enormities such as must sicken the very
                     heart, has been laid open to the world. We have before us "The Petition of
                     Ubaldus Borzinsky, of the Order of the Brothers of Mercy, to Pope Pius IX." It
                     has just been made public. The monastery to which Ubaldus Borzinsky belongs is
                     at Prague, in Bohemia. In thirty-seven distinct and full specifications,
                     Borzinsky exposes a catalogue of crimes of the deepest dye, committed to his
                     knowledge and that of the other monks in various monasteries of the Brothers of
                     Mercy in Austria. The petition commences as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "HOLY FATHER,—As nothing we undertake can prove successful without
                                 the assistance of the Most High, I therefore earnestly implore the
                                 Holy Spirit to communicate his enlightening influence and gracious
                                 aid in the matter I now lay before you, which also involves an
                                 humble request.
                              "The task I have proposed to myself is far from being a pleasant
                                 one, as it only exhibits painful events, and is calculated to
                                 awaken very distressing feelings in the mind of your Holiness. But it
                                 is necessary, in order that I may have peace in my own mind,
                                 through the favor and grace of your Holiness, that I should bring
                                 both to your consideration. I have also thought of the maxim, 'De'
                                    grandi e de' morti, parla bene, o
                                    taci [Of the great and of the dead, speak good or else
                                 be silent]; but mindful, Holy Father, that truth should not be
                                 concealed when we would appeal to so august and holy a tribunal as
                                 yours, I commence under the help of the Most High."
                              Borzinsky then proceeds to narrate the gross immoralities of Vitus
                                 Hreschich, Prior of the Brothers of Mercy in the monastery of
                                 Presburg, in Hungary, and also those of the Prior Sanctus Martens.
                                 The former of these became provincial of the order, and then sold
                                 his priorship to the highest bidder. He was succeeded in 1853 by
                                 Odilo Rayth, a man of notorious dissoluteness. Next follow
                                 statements of the seductions, adulteries, and more monstrous and
                                 unnatural offenses of priors and brothers, in a large number of
                                 houses connected with the order in Hungary, Bohemia, Moravia, and
                                 at Vienna itself. Much of this statement is unfit for translation.
                                 We quote only the concluding item of this shameful account.
                              "XXXVII. Paschal Fiala was for twenty years provincial of the
                                 order, and acted as his predecessor did and as his successors have
                                 done, in selling the priorates and higher offices of the convents.
                                 This Paschal Fiala kept two ladies in Vienna, the one Madame von
                                 Ledwinka, and the other Madame von Sebald, which many of the older
                                 brothers yet well remember. These females divided the greater part
                                 of the sale of priorates and other conventual offices between
                                 themselves. They lodged in the city of Vienna, in apartments
                                 consisting of four or five rooms, the rent of which was 500 or 600
                                 florins per annum. They kept two or three servant-maids; and all
                                 this expense was defrayed from the property of the sick poor. Most
                                 of the priors obtain wagon-loads of farm produce, such as butcher's
                                 meat, butter, fowls, corn, eggs, dried fruits, and eimers of the most exquisite wines for their own tables, the
                                 property of the poor. If any right-minded brother of the order,
                                 whose heart bled when he saw that the sick poor on this account
                                 were badly attended to, and necessarily deprived of part of their
                                 allowance, dared to make any remark regarding the injustice of
                                 these proceedings, that man was at once marked for persecution and
                                 oppression to the very utmost.
                              "Help me, therefore, most Holy Father," concludes Borzinsky, "if
                                 this my most humble petition should ever reach your hands. In my
                                 soul I look on the matter I have represented—and I could bring much
                                 more before your Holiness—with deep affliction, even now in my
                                 prison-house. Help me out of the order altogether, most Holy
                                 Father, and I will pray for you all my life long. I shall end my
                                 life very unhappily unless you may exert your great power to
                                 deliver me from the order of which I am a member.
                              "Your Holiness orders that our convents be visited, that better
                                 conduct may prevail in future. The old forgotten statutes of the
                                 order are to be restored to their power, and to be punctually
                                 observed. Your intentions, most Holy Father, are the best; but
                                    here, however, there
                                 will be no improvement; for even those who observe not the new
                                 rules, nevertheless promise to do all which you, most Holy Father,
                                 would have them to observe.
                              "I most respectfully kiss your Holiness's apostolic feet, and beg
                                 you graciously to regard the petition, which I, with child-like and
                                 profound veneration, present to the notice of your Holiness.
                              
                                 "(Signed), UBALDUS BORZINSKY,
                                 "In the monastery of the Brothers of Mercy at
                                    Prague.
                                 "Prague, October, 1854."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  How long, we ask, after a perusal of this startling document, will it be before
                     scenes like these shall be acted in our own land? Romanism is advancing with
                     rapid strides among us. A throng of priest-ruled emigrants presses upon our
                     shores. The institutions of Jesuitism, which the old governments and nations of
                     Europe, even the most absolute and the most thorough papal, have felt to be an
                     intolerable burden upon their prosperity, are already obtruded on our young and
                     vigorous state. Swarms of foreign priests and nuns are settling down upon our
                     soil, and seducing to their prison-houses the daughters of our people. What may
                     be already occurring in those secret places we do not know, nor can we foretell
                     how soon a shuddering public may hear the voice of exposure, in recitals like
                     those just echoed from distant Austria. Rome dreads nothing so much as
                     exposure. Crime may be borne with so long as it can be hushed; but
                        "scandal"—the disgrace and shame of notorious guilt—is the
                     calamity lamity of all others to be foreclosed. In view of such a policy, we
                     can only prognosticate results from the experience of the past. Shall we heed
                     the voice of warning that comes to us from thence, or shall we hasten to add to
                     the record another example of ruin, spiritual and temporal, from the
                     overspreading blight of priestcraft and monasticism?
                  In the name of humanity, we call for the imposition of legal limits to the
                     arbitrary rule of the convent. We ask that liberty be proclaimed to the
                     captives of a severe and cruel system. These institutions, existing already
                     among us, but in glaring opposition to the fundamental theories and principles
                     of a republic; these institutions, that are but so many organizations of
                     despotism transplanted to our soil—we ask that liberty of conscience and rights
                     of self-control be extended to their unhappy inmates; so that, though there be
                     but one among all those victims of delusion that is unwillingly detained, she
                     may be sent forth to enjoy the common privileges of the land. We ask that it be
                     made by law impossible for a system of peonage—a system that involves the total
                     surrender of personal will, whether for life or for a stated term to be
                     formally renewed—an act as yet unlegalized—a system of moral suicide and civil
                     death—to continue in force among us. We invoke the concurrence of all, whether
                     Protestants or Catholics, who hold dear the hereditary rights of freemen, in
                     petitioning our Legislatures for the passage of some provision whereby the
                     doors of closed convents and all other institutions where vows of absolute
                     obedience are taken, shall be opened at stated periods for the admittance of
                        commissioners, appointed by our
                     legislators or judges, who shall personally inquire of every individual whether
                     she be there of her own choice or by compulsion. The prosecution of this just
                     demand is the scope of our desires in sending forth this book. Without the
                     sanction of so worthy a purpose, the labor of its preparation would be but ill
                     repaid in satisfying popular inquiry, however natural and proper. That these
                     pages may arouse some who read them to vigilance and effort against the plots
                     of which they reveal a part, is the sincere prayer of the writer.
               
            
            
               NOTE.
               THE following description of the institution at Emmettsburg is taken from the
                  "Life of Mrs. Seton," by the Reverend Charles I. White, D. D.,*
                   which professes to give an authentic sketch of the sisterhood from its
                   foundation. It will be read, we think, with interest.
               
                  
                  *Published by Dunigan & Brother. New York, 1853.
               
               "Although two spacious edifices had been erected to meet the wants of St. Joseph's
                  sisterhood and academy, the increasing prosperity of the institution rendered it
                  necessary to provide additional room. For this purpose, a large building,
                  fifty-seven by sixty-nine feet, and three stories high, was commenced in 1841,
                  connecting with the eastern extremity of the academy, and running at right angles
                  with it in a southern direction. It is surmounted with a cupola and belvidere,
                  which command one of the most extensive and delightful prospects that can greet
                  the eye. Having mentioned the different buildings appropriated to scholastic
                  purposes, we shall briefly state the particular uses of each. The main edifice is
                  distributed into rooms for recitation, the cabinet of natural sciences, the
                  library, dormitories, etc., and in the lowest story are the important arrangements
                  of the culinary department ment.
                  Another building in the rear contains the refectory, infirmary, bathing
                  establishment, and a large hall for drawing, painting, and embroidery. The
                  last-mentioned edifice has three grand divisions: a study-room, a hall for public
                  exhibitions, and one for the exercises of vocal and instrumental music.
               "A few years after its erection, in 1844, another extensive structure was
                  undertaken for the exclusive accommodation of the sisters and novices, and was
                  completed in little more than twelve months, having been occupied in September,
                  1845. It stands east and west, connecting the academy and the chapel, with lateral
                  projections to the south, inclosing on three sides a court-yard seventy feet by
                  forty in extent. The new residence of the sisters is two hundred and thirty-two
                  feet in developed length, and forty in width, with two stories and a roomy attic,
                  and is constructed of brick and cut stone, colored of a light slate or gray. It is
                  after the conventual style of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, with
                  embattled parapets; high-pitched roof, with dormers, surmounted by a belfry thirty
                  feet high; the windows of the second story square, with transom forming a cross;
                  the lower windows mullioned with hood-moulds; the lateral walls broken by
                  buttresses; and with porches to the first and second stories, running along the
                  north wall. The building is truly Catholic in its external appearance. The
                  interior parts of the edifice are well adapted to their sacred uses. The lower and
                  second stories are severally fourteen feet in height. On the first is a cloister,
                  running around the entire court-yard and communicating with the chapel, and also
                  the public rooms for the use of the community, among them the Superior's apartment
                  and chapter-room. The other stories are occupied as dormitories, and for the
                  infirmary, refectory, and other purposes."—P. 455-7.
               The chapel of the institution, consecrated in 1841, is thus described: "This
                  beautiful church fronts the western extremity of the academy, at a distance of
                  about seventy feet. The style of its architecture is Tuscan. It is a spacious
                  building, one hundred and twelve feet long, and ninety-one wide, with a lofty
                  steeple, and embracing at the rear end two wings, one of which serves as a
                  vestry-room, the other for the orphans and strangers who wish to attend the divine
                  service. The body of the church is reserved for the sisters and the young ladies
                  of the academy. The façade is very appropriately set off with a finely-sculptured
                  statue of St. Joseph, and bears a Latin inscription, which states that the
                  edifice, erected at the expense of the Daughters of Charity, was dedicated by them
                  to the glory of God in honor of their chief patron. As you enter the front door,
                  on the left, is a recess, containing an altar commemorative of the seven dolors of
                  the Virgin Mother, which are exhibited by a well-executed group in composition.
                  This group was presented to the chapel by a pious nobleman of France, to obtain a
                  share in the rich blessings which God so readily grants to his cherished spouses.
                  In the recess, on the right, is an altar sacred to St. Philomena, which the piety
                  of former pupils has raised and decorated with costly gifts. In the spacious
                  chancel of the church rises a marble altar, of the purest white, and of matchless
                  elegance; and, elevated high above it, in the niche of a canopy constructed of the
                  same rich material as the altar, stands a well-sculptured image of the blessed
                  Virgin, with the child Jesus in her arms. Above the tabernacle, on either side, is
                  seen a cherub in the posture of profound awe and adoration before the holy of
                  holies. The interior of the chapel contains, moreover, several paintings of
                  merit."—P. 450-1. "The bell which hangs in the steeple of St. Joseph's church is
                  one of the many articles of this description which were brought to this country
                  from Spain during the ascendency of Espartero."—Note, p. 519.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            KIRWAN'S WORKS, PUBLISHED BY Harper & Brothers,
            FRANKLIN SQUARE, N. Y.
            
               Romanism at Home. Letters to the Hon. Roger B. Taney, Chief-Justice of the
                  United States. By KIRWAN. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               Men and Things as I saw them in Europe. By KIRWAN. 12mo, Muslin, 75
                  cents.
               Parish and other Pencilings. By KIRWAN. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               Letters to Bishop Hughes. By KIRWAN. New and Revised Edition. 12mo.
            
         
         
            
            BUNGENER'S COUNCIL OF TRENT.
            History of the Council of Trent. From the French of L. F. BUNGENER, Author of "The
               Priest and the Huguenot." Edited, from the Second English Edition, by JOHN
               M'CLINTOCK, D. D. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
            Most persons know that the Council of Trent was a product of the Reformation, but
               comparatively few, we suspect, know much about its history. Those who wish to know
               (and it is a matter worth knowing) will find ample means of information in this
               volume. He (the author) is clear in statement, subtle and consecutive in his logic,
               and steers as far from dullness as from sourness.—Perthshire
                  Advertiser.
            
            It is all that a history should be—perspicuous in language, discriminating in detail,
               dignified and philosophical in manner, candid and faithful in the narration of facts,
               and bears evident traces of extensive reading and enlarged
                  information.—Caledonian 
                     Meecury
                     Mercury
                  .
            
            This history is invaluable.—Christian Advocate.
            
            Characterized by clearness, truthfulness, and vigor in the narrative, acuteness and
               terseness in the reasoning, and a spirit of Christian fidelity and
                  charity.—Watchman.
            
            The work before us is undoubtedly one of the very best that has appeared on the
               subject. The writer has abundant materials, and has used them with fidelity,
               impartiality, and talent. His brilliant style radiates in every department of the
                  work.—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
            
            A work of permanent interest, which should be well understood by the ministry of our
               church and country.—Christian Observer.
            
            It is adapted for popular reading; while, as a true portraiture of men and things in
               the Council, it is invaluable to the theologian.—Christian
                  Intelligencer.
            
         
         
            MEXICO AND ITS RELIGION;
            Or, Incidents of Travel in that Country during Parts of the Years 1851-52-53-54, with
               Historical Notices of Events connected with Places Visited. By ROBERT A. WILSON. With
               Illustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
            This is a record of recent travel in various parts of Mexico, including full
               statistical details, historical reminiscences and legends, and descriptions of
               society, manners, and scenery. A large portion is devoted to the influence of the
               Catholic Church, and relates many piquant narratives in illustration of the subject.
               The author writes in a lively, graphic, and, sometimes, humorous style. He gives a
               great deal of valuable information, and his travels can not fail to find numerous
               readers and prove a most popular volume.
         
         
            SEYMOUR'S JESUITS.
            Mornings among the Jesuits at Rome. Being Notes of Conversations held with certain
               Jesuits on the Subject of Religion in the City of Rome. By Rev. M. HOBART SEYMOUR,
               M.A. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
         
         
            INEZ,
            A Tale of the Alamo. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
            We have to recommend the book to pious parents and guardians as written under the
               influence of the strictest Protestant principles; and to introduce it to young ladies
               in general, as containing some very nice "love," seasoned pleasantly with just enough
               fighting to make the whole story agreeable.—Leader.
            
            When the Texans threw off the Mexican yoke and entered into our National Confederacy,
               no portion of her people felt the change more keenly than her Romish priesthood, and
               especially the Jesuits. Their counter and insidious duties of social and domestic
               life is the moral of this story. The lady who wrote it has studied the Romish
               argument, and has managed it with effect. It is not a book of the "Maria Monk" stamp;
               it is a successful refutation and exposure, in popular form, of some of the worst
               points of the Romish system.—Church Review.
            
            A most inviting story, the interest of which is sustained throughout its narrative of
               stirring events and deep passions.—Mobile Register.
            
            The descriptions of scenes of carnage, and the alarms and excitements of war are
               graphic, while the polemics are not so spun out as to be tedious. The portraiture of
               the Jesuit padre is any thing but flattering to the Catholic priesthood, while her
               dissertations upon the doctrines, traditions, practices, and superstitious follies of
               the Holy Mother Church prove her to be no respecter of its claims to infallibility,
               and no admirer of the disciples of Loyola.—Constitutionalist and Republic,
                  Ga.
            
            We have read this work with the liveliest pleasure, and we venture to assert, that no
               one can take it up without going through with it.—Richmond Whig.
            
         
         
            LE CURÉ MANQUÉ
            Or, Social and Religious Customs in France. By EUGÈNE DE COURCILLON. 12mo, Muslin, 75
               cents.
            The autobiography of a young French peasant who was trained for the Church. Its
               specific purpose is to give an account of the social and rural life and superstitions
               of the peasants of Normandy, and to show the relations existing between them and
               their priests. The author also describes, in a very interesting manner, the routine
               and customs of the French ecclesiastical seminaries.
            "Le Curé Manqué is a curious work, for its pictures of French peasant manners, its
               account of village priests, and its quiet but bitter satire on the selfishness of the
               Romanist country clergy, and the ignorance in which they leave their flocks. The
               filling up of the story shows remarkable skill, for the easy natural way in which it
               carries out the authors intention of exhibiting "social and religious customs" in
               provincial France.—London Spectator.
            
            The strange state of society, with its French and Papal habits which it portrays,
               will set new facts before the mind of even-traveled readers.—Presbyterian
                  Banner.
            
            
               Le Curé Manqué (the Unfinished Priest) is a title which very
               accurately conveys an idea of what the book is. It lets the public behind the scenes
               in a remarkable manner, and is one of the most readable books of the
                  season.—N.Y. Daily Times.
            
            A most agreeable and entertaining narrative, opening to most American readers novel,
               strange, and (many of them) charming scenes. Though the Church may be a loser (which
               is doubtful, however), the world has certainly been a gainer by his apostacy from his
               sacred calling.—Savannah Journal.
            
            The exposition of the Romish ceremonials, and of the subjecture of the masses of the
               French people to priestcraft are peculiarly interesting. We quote, "How a mass may be
               said for a pig, and refused for a Protestant."—N. Y. Commercial
                  Advertiser.
            
         
         
            
            WOMAN'S RECORD;
            Or, Sketches of all Distinguished Women from the Creation to the Present Time.
               Arranged in Four Eras. With Selections from Female Writers of each Era. By Mrs. SARAH
               JOSEPHA HALE. Illustrated with 230 engraved Portraits. Second Edition, revised and
               enlarged. Royal 8vo, Muslin, $3 50; Sheep, $4 00; Half Calf, $4 25.
            "Many years have been devoted to the preparation of this comprehensive work, which
               contains complete and accurate sketches of the most distinguished women in all ages,
               and, in extent and thoroughness, far surpasses every previous biographical collection
               with a similar aim. Mrs. Hale has ransacked the treasures of history for information
               in regard to the eminent women whom it commemorates; few, if any, important names are
               omitted in her volumes, while the living celebrities of the day are portrayed with
               justness and delicacy. The picture of woman's life, as it has been developed from the
               times of the earliest traditions to the present date, is here displayed in vivid and
               impressive colors, and with a living sympathy which could only flow from a feminine
               pen. A judicious selection from the writings of women who have obtained distinction
               in the walks of literature is presented, affording an opportunity for comparing the
               noblest productions of the female mind, and embracing many exquisite gems of fancy
               and feeling. The biographies are illustrated by a series of highly-finished
               engravings, which form a gallery of portraits of curious interest to the amateur, as
               well as of great historical value.
            This massive volume furnishes an historical portrait gallery, in which each age of
               this world had its appropriate representatives. Mrs. Hale has succeeded admirably in
               her biographical sketches.—Philadelphia Presbyterian.
            
            "Woman's Record" is, indeed, a noble study and noble history. The sketches are all
               carefully and even elegantly written.—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
            
            What lady, who takes a pride in her sex, would not desire to have this volume on her
               centre-table? and what husband, lover, or brother would leave such a wish
                  ungratified.—Washington Republic.
            
            This superb monument of Mrs. Hale's indefatigable devotion to her sex is illustrated
               by 230 portraits, engraved in that style of excellence that has deservedly placed
                  Lossing at the head of his profession.—Philadelphia Saturday
                  Courier.
            
            We are pleased with the plan of the "Record," and with the manner in which that plan
               is carried into execution. The book is a valuable and permanent contribution to
                  literature.—New Orleans Baptist Chronicle.
            
            This work merits the warmest commendation.—Sun.
            
            This is a large and beautiful book, and covers the ground marked out by the title
               more fully and satisfactorily than any other work extant. It is a most valuable
                  work.—Southern Ladies' Companion.
            
            Here we have placed before us a book that would do credit to any author or compiler
               that ever lived, and, to the astonishment of some, produced by the head, heart, and
               hand of a woman.—N. Y. Daily Times.
            
            This is a very curious and very interesting work—a Biographical Dictionary of all
               Distinguished Females—a work, we believe, quite unique in the history of literature.
               We have only to say that the work will be found both instructive, amusing, and
               generally impartial.—London Ladies' Messenger.
            
            The comprehensiveness of the work renders it a valuable addition to the
                  library.—London Ladies' Companion.
            
            A Female Biographical Dictionary, which this volume really is, will often be
               consulted as an authority; and the great extent of Mrs. Hale's information as to the
               distinguished women of modern times, supplies us with a number of facts which we knew
               not where to procure elsewhere. It is clearly and simply written.—London 
                     Gardian
                     Guardian
                  .
            
         
         
            LOSSING'S PICTORIAL FIELD-BOOK
            Of the Revolution; or, Illustrations, by Pen and Pencil, of the History, Biography,
               Scenery, Relics, and Traditions of the War for Independence. 2 vols. Royal 8vo,
               Muslin, $8 00; Sheep, $9 00; Half Calf, $10 00; Full Morocco, $15 00.
            A new and carefully revised edition of this magnificent work is just completed in two
               imperial octavo volumes of equal size, containing 1500 pages and 1100 engravings. As
               the plan, scope, and beauty of the work were originally developed; eminent literary
               men, and the leading presses of the United States and Great Britain, pronounced it
               one of the most valuable historical productions ever issued.
            The preparation of this work occupied the author more than four years, during which
               he traveled nearly ten thousand miles in order to visit the prominent scenes of
               revolutionary history, gather up local traditions, and explore records and histories.
               In the use of his pencil he was governed by the determination to withhold nothing of
               importance or interest. Being himself both artist and writer, he has been able to
               combine the materials he had collected in both departments into a work possessing
               perfect unity of purpose and execution.
            The object of the author in arranging his plan was to reproduce the history of the
               American Revolution in such an attractive manner, as to entice the youth of his
               country to read the wonderful story, study its philosophy and teachings, and to
               become familiar with the founders of our Republic and the value of their labors. In
               this he has been eminently successful; for the young read the pages of the
               "Field-Book" with the same avidity as those of a romance; while the abundant stores
               of information, and the careful manner in which it has been arranged and set forth,
               render it no less attractive to the general reader and the ripe scholar of more
               mature years.
            Explanatory notes are profusely given upon every page in the volume, and also a brief
               biographical sketch of every man distinguished in the events of the Revolution, the
               history of whose life is known.
            A Supplement of forty pages contains a history of the Naval Operations
               of the Revolution; of the Diplomacy; of the Confederation
               and Federal Constitution; the Prisons and Prison Ships of New York;
               Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence, and other matters of curious
               interest to the historical student.
            A new and very elaborate analytical index has been prepared, to which we call special
               attention. It embraces eighty-five closely printed pages, and possesses rare value
               for every student of our revolutionary history. It is in itself a complete synopsis
               of the history and biography of that period, and will be found exceedingly useful for
               reference by every reader.
            As a whole, the work contains all the essential facts of the early history of our
               Republic, which are scattered through scores of volumes often inaccessible to the
               great mass of readers. The illustrations make the whole subject of the American
               Revolution so clear to the reader that, on rising from its perusal, he feels
               thoroughly acquainted, not only with the history, but with every important locality
               made memorable by the events of the war for Independence, and it forms a complete
               Guide-Book to the tourist seeking for fields consecrated by patriotism, which lie
               scattered over our broad land. Nothing has been spared to make it complete, reliable,
               and eminently useful to all classes of citizens. Upward of THIRTY-FIVE THOUSAND
               DOLLARS were expended in the publication of the first edition. The exquisite
               wood-cuts, engraved under the immediate supervision of the author, from his own
               drawings, in the highest style of the art, required the greatest care in printing. To
               this end the efforts of the publishers have been directed, and we take great pleasure
               in presenting these volumes as the best specimen of typography ever issued from the
               American press.
            The publication of the work having been commenced in numbers before its preparation
               was completed, the volumes of the first edition were made quite unequal in size. That
               defect has been remedied, and the work is now presented in two volumes of equal size,
               containing about 780 pages each.
         
         
            
            HARPER'S STORY BOOKS.
            A MONTHLY SERIES OF NARRATIVES, BIOGRAPHIES, and TALES, for the Instruction and
               Entertainment of the Young. By JACOB ABBOTT. Embellished with numerous and beautiful
               Engravings.
            TERMS.—Each number of "Harper's Story Books" will contain 160 pages in small quarto
               form, very beautifully illustrated, and printed on superfine calendered paper.
            The Series may be obtained of Booksellers, Periodical Agents, and Postmasters, or
               from the Publishers, at Three Dollars a year, or Twenty-five Cents a Number in Paper,
               or Forty Cents a Number bound in Cloth gilt. Subscriptions may commence with any
               Number. The Postage upon "Harper's Story Books," which must be paid quarterly in
               advance, is Two Cents. "Harper's Magazine" and "Harper's Story Books" will be sent to
               one Address, for one year, for Five Dollars.
            
            The Quarterly Volumes, as completed, neatly bound in Cloth gilt, are sold at One
               Dollar each, and Muslin Covers are furnished to those who wish to have their back
               Numbers uniformly bound, at Twenty-five Cents each.
            VOL. I. Contains the first three Numbers, "Bruno," "Willie," and "Strait Gate."—VOL.
               II. "The Little Louvre," "Prank," and "Emma."—VOL. III. "Virginia," "Timboo and
               Joliba," and "Timboo and Fanny."—VOL. IV. "The Harper Establishment," "Franklin," and
               "The Studio."
            They are the best children's books ever published. They wisely avoid the introduction
               or discussion of religious topics, yet are such as Christian parents may
               unhesitatingly place in their children's hands. The price is marvelously low.
               Twenty-five cents a number makes it about six pages of print and two excellent
               engravings for 
                  eace
                  each
                cent of the money. The engravings alone, without a line of letter-press,
               would be cheap at the price. One good thing these Story Books will certainly
               accomplish: henceforth inferior authorship and used-up, worn out illustrations can
               not be palmed off on children. They have samples here of what is best for them, and
               they are shrewd enough not to put up with any thing of lower quality.—N. Y.
                  Daily Times.
            
            We have heard so many fathers and mothers who recognize the pleasant duty of guiding
               the minds of their children in the paths of knowledge at home, speak in terms of the
               highest commendation of this series of books for children, that we feel a desire to
               see them universally read among children. They constitute the finest series of books
               for the young that we have seen.—Louisville Courier.
            
            Who is better qualified than Jacob Abbott to prepare such a work? He always seems to
               have an intuitive perception of just what children want—just what will take with
               them, and so serve as the medium of conveying instruction in the pleasantest form. He
               has begun this new series admirably, and we almost envy the relish with which our
               children will read it. Now for a suggestion to parents: instead of buying your boy
               some trumpery toy, give him a year's subscription to this charming
               monthly. It will cost you three dollars, indeed; but its excellent moral
               hints and influence, its useful and entertaining knowledge, are worth all that, and
               much more. If you think you can not afford it for one child, take it for
               your children's home circle, and let one read it aloud to the others.
               You'll never regret it.—Christian Inquirer.
            
         
         
            HARPER'S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
            EACH Number of the Magazine will contain 144 octavo pages, in double columns, each
               year thus comprising nearly two thousand pages of the choicest Miscellaneous
               Literature of the day. Every number will contain numerous Pictorial Illustrations,
               accurate Plates of the Fashions, a copious Chronicle of Current Events, and impartial
               Notices of the important Books of the Month. The Volumes commence with the Numbers
               for JUNE and DECEMBER; but Subscriptions may commence with any number.
            TERMS.—The Magazine may be obtained of Booksellers, Periodical Agents, or from the
               Publishers, at THREE DOLLARS a year, or TWENTY-FIVE CENTS a Number. The Semi-Annual
               Volumes, as completed, neatly bound in Cloth, are sold at Two Dollars each, and
               Muslin Covers are furnished to those who wish to have their back Numbers uniformly
               bound, at Twenty-five Cents each. Eleven Volumes are now ready, bound.
            The Publishers will supply Specimen Numbers gratuitously to Agents and Postmasters,
               and will make liberal arrangements with them for circulating the Magazine. They will
               also supply Clubs, of two persons at Five Dollars a year, or five persons at Ten
               Dollars. Clergymen supplied at Two Dollars a year. Numbers from the commencement can
               now be supplied.
            The Magazine weighs over seven and not over eight ounces. The Postage upon each
               Number, which must be paid quarterly in advance, is THREE CENTS.
            The Publishers would give notice that that they have no Agents for whose contracts
               they are responsible. Those ordering the Magazine from Agents or Dealers must look to
               them for the supply of the Work.
            Each month it gladdens us and our household, to say nothing of the neighbors who
               enjoy it with us. Twenty-five cents buys it—the cheapest, richest, and most lasting
               luxury for the money that we know. Three dollars secures it for one year: and what
               three dollars ever went so far? Put the same amount in clothes, eating, drinking,
               furniture, and how much of a substantial thing is obtained? If ideas, facts, and
               sentiments, have a monetary value—above all, if the humor that refreshes, the
               pleasantries that bring a gentle smile, and brighten the passage of a truth to your
               brain, and the happy combination of the real and the imaginative, without which no
               one can live a life above the animal, are to be put in the scale opposite to dollars
               and cents, then you may be certain, that if Harper were three or four times as dear,
               it would amply repay its price. It is a Magazine proper, with the idea and purpose of
               a Magazine—not a book, not a scientific periodical, nor yet a supplier of light
               gossip and chatty anecdotes—but a Magazine that takes every form of interesting,
               dignified, and attractive literature in its grasp.—Southern Times.
            
            Its success was rapid, and has continued till the monthly issue has reached the
               unprecedented number of 150,000. The volumes bound constitute of themselves a library
               of miscellaneous reading, such as can not be found in the same compass in any other
               publication that has come under our notice. The contents of the Magazine are as
               "various as the mind of man." In the immense amount of matter which it contains, it
               would be strange, indeed, if there was not something to gratify every
               taste. The articles illustrating the natural history and resources of our country are
               enough to entitle the Magazine to a place in every family where there are children to
               be taught to love their native land. The Editor's Table presents every month an
               elaborately prepared essay on some topic intimately connected with our politics, our
               morals, or our patriotism, while the Easy Chair and the Drawer of the same
               responsible personage—doubtless a plural unit—display gems of wit,
               humor, and fancy, in any quantity to suit the temper of any reader.—Boston
                  Courier.
            
         
         
            
            Harper's New Classical Library.
            THE want of a Series of LITERAL TRANSLATIONS of the Greek and Latin authors who are
               usually studied in the American course of academic education, has been long felt by
               the most intelligent and assiduous classical teachers. That they are capable of being
               abused by the indolent and unfaithful pupil is no plea against their utility, when
               employed in their legitimate place. A translation of an ancient writer into English,
               as perfectly literal as is permitted by the idioms of the respective languages,
               affords an invaluable aid to the instructor in the accomplishment of his arduous
               task. If executed with fidelity and skill, it not only saves much time and labor in
               the consultation of dictionaries, but embodies the best results of philological
               acumen and research in the shortest possible space. Pages of learned commentary are
               thus concentrated in the rendering of a single word.
            The works which it is proposed to issue are reprints from "BOHN'S CLASSICAL LIBRARY,"
               brought out uniform with the English edition, and comprising faithful translations of
               the principal Greek and Latin classics.
            Each work will be given without abridgment, and will include short suggestive notes,
               adapted to the comprehension as well as the actual wants of the student. Copious and
               accurate indexes will be appended to every translation. No version will be adopted
               without ample and thorough revision, correcting its errors by the lights of modern
               research, and placing it on a level with the present improved state of philological
               learning.
            Twelve volumes are now ready.
            This NEW CLASSICAL LIBRARY, we are confident, will receive a unanimous welcome from
               the whole corps of American classical teachers. The important uses of such a work in
               their daily avocations are too obvious to require discussion. Nor is the interest of
               the series confined to teachers by profession. Every reading man, though destitute of
               a knowledge of the ancient languages, feels a laudable curiosity to form an
               acquaintance with the incomparable models of literary art which they have preserved.
               In the literal translations with which he is furnished by the present series, he will
               find the information that he seeks, enabling him to comprehend current classical
               allusions with facility, to become familiar with the true spirit of the ancients, and
               to share in conversation and studies which presuppose a general knowledge of Greek
               and Roman antiquity.
            HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE, N. Y.
         
         
            A LIST OF NEW BOOKS, PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS.
            
               Squier's Central America. Notes on Central America; particularly the States of
                  Honduras and San Salvador: their Geography, Topography, Climate, Population,
                  Resources, Productions, &c., &c., and the proposed Interoceanic Railway.
                  By E. G. SQUIER, formerly Chargé d'Affaires of the United States to the Republics
                  of Central America. With Original Maps and Illustrations. 8vo, Muslin, $2
                  00.
               Napoleon at St. Helena; Or, Interesting Anecdotes and Remarkable Conversations
                  of the Emperor during the Five and a Half Years of his Captivity. Collected from
                  the Memorials of Las Casas, O'Meara, Montholon, Antommarchi, and others. By JOHN
                  S. C. ABBOTT. With Illustrations. 8vo, Muslin, $2 50.
               Helps's Spanish Conquest. The Spanish Conquest in America, and its Relation to
                  the History of Slavery, and to the Government of Colonies. By ARTHUR HELPS. Large
                  12mo, Muslin. (In press.)
               Loomis's Arithmetic. A Treatise on Arithmetic, Theoretical and Practical. By
                  ELIAS LOOMIS, LL.D. 12mo, Sheep.
               Barton's Grammar. An Outline of the General Principles of Grammar. With a Brief
                  Exposition of the Chief Idiomatic Peculiarities of the English Language. To which
                  Questions have been added. Edited and Enlarged by the Rev. J. GRAEFF BARTON, A.M.,
                  Professor of the English Language and Literature in the New York Free Academy.
                  16mo, Muslin, 37½ cents.
               Ewbank's Brazil. Life in Brazil; or, a Journal of a Visit to the Land of the
                  Cocoa and the Palm. With an Appendix, containing Illustrations of Ancient South
                  American Arts, in Recently Discovered Implements and Products of Domestic
                  Industry, and Works in Stone, Pottery, Gold, Silver, Bronze, &c.. By THOMAS
                  EWBANK. With over 100 Illustrations. 8vo, Muslin, $2 00.
               
               Mexico and its Religion; Or, Incidents of Travel in that Country during Parts
                  of the Years 1851-52-53-54, with Historical Notices of Events connected with
                  Places Visited. By ROBERT A. WILSON. With Illustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1
                  00.
               Parisian Sights and French Principles, seen through American Spectacles. By
                  JAMES JACKSON JARVES. Second Series. With Illustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1
                  00.
               Italian Sights. and Papal Principles, seen through American Spectacles. By
                  JAMES JACKSON JARVES. With Illustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Art-Hints. Architecture, Sculpture, and Painting. By JAMES JACKSON JARVES.
                  12mo, Muslin, $1 25.
               Christian Theism: The Testimony of Reason and Revelation to the Existence of
                  the Supreme Being. By ROBERT ANCHOR THOMPSON, M.A. (The First Burnett Prize of
                  $9000 was awarded to this Treatise.) 12mo, Muslin, $1 25.
               A Child's History of the United States. By JOHN BONNER. 2 vols. 16mo, Muslin,
                  $1 00. (Uniform with Dickens's "Child's History of England.)
               Lily.A Novel. By the Author of "The Busy Moments of an Idle Woman." 12mo,
                  Muslin, $1 00.
               James's Old Dominion. The Old Dominion; or, the Southampton Massacre. By G. P.
                  R. JAMES, Esq. 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.
               Miss Bunkley's Book. The Testimony of an Escaped Novice from the Sisterhood of
                  St. Joseph, Emmettsburg, Maryland, the Mother-House of the Sisters of Charity in
                  the United States. By JOSEPHINE M. BUNKLEY. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Learning to Talk; Or, Entertaining and Instructive Lessons in the Use of
                  Language. By JACOB ABBOTT. Illustrated with 170 Engravings. Small 4to, Muslin, 50
                  cents.
            
         
      
   
