
    ----CITATION----
        Bradley, James A.. Clayton Berry, or, New Year's Calls .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5881
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               CLAYTON BERRY; 
               OR, NEW YEARS'S CALLS. 
               A TEMPERANCE STORY. 
             
            BY JAMES A. BRADLEY.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               MCDONALD BROS., STATIONERS AND PRINTERS,  
                     No. 91 Liberty Street. 
                  
               
             
            1871. 
          
          
             
             
               CLAYTON BERRY; 
               OR, NEW YEARS'S CALLS. 
               A TEMPERANCE STORY. 
             
            BY JAMES A. BRADLEY.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               MCDONALD BROS., STATIONERS AND PRINTERS,  
                     No. 91 Liberty Street. 
                  
               
             
            1871. 
          
       
      
         
            Clayton Berry, or, New Year's calls 
             
                
                
               CLAYTON BERRY. 
               A 
                     TEMPERENCE
                     TEMPERANCE
                   STORY. 
               ABOUT the year 184-, there came to Williamsburgh, a gentleman with his wife and child, from Massachusetts. He had been for many years foreman in one of the manufactories there, and at length arose from that humble position to that of resident agent at the mills, and finally active partner in the warehouse in New York. 
               His wife was a woman of rare intelligence, and although once an operative in the same factory with her husband, she had, in common with most New England girls, received a superior education, and was fitted to adorn the elevated social position that wealth so often gives. 
               Upon his arrival in the 'Burgh, Mr. Berry went to reside in what was known at that time as one of the fourteen buildings on Grand street, between Union avenue and Bushwick, one of which was then, and instill, occupied by D-- M--, Esq. 
               At that time Grand street was much like the streets of a New England village. The writer well remembers the beautiful shade trees that then surrounded those dwellings, clothed in Summer with the richest foliage, and vocal with the songs of birds. 
               There was no Belgian pavement then, and the grass grew luxuriantly on either side of the carriage-way. 
               The Berrys had not long been settled in their new home, when their neighbors called to make them welcome, and were much pleased to find the new comers so intelligent and agreeable. 
               From that time Mr. Berry began to take an active part in all the social and benevolent enterprises of the day. 
               Old Williamsburghers will remember the Central Hall, which stood on the corner of South First and Fifth streets, where Finkle's provision store now stands. They will also remember when General Rosecranz-then unknown to fame-lectured on the early settlement tlement of California; also, Dr. Weiting's lectures, &c. 
               At that time a few leading men, full of zeal, and fully identifying themselves with the place, determined that Williamsburgh should not lack in intellectual entertainments. 
               Foremost in procuring the services of eminent men to lecture in Central Hall, was Mr. Berry. Then, as now, croakers were not wanting, to belittle everything done in Williamsburgh. Many a contest Mr. B. had with them, telling them what he plainly foresaw: that Williamsburgh would one day take her place, socially, intellectually, and financially, by the side of her older sister, Brooklyn. 
               At one of the annual elections for President of village trustees, the Democracy selected Mr. E-- D-- as their standard bearer. Mr. D-- was personally known to most of the citizens, and was popular with all classes. The opposition, knowing they had a strong opponent to contend with, urged Mr. Berry to accept the nomination. This he positively declined, as his business forbade the sacrifice of time required to discharge the duties aright. A less popular man was chosen, and as a consequence, Mr. D-- was elected. 
                
               And here at the zenith of his prosperity and usefulness-blessed with all that can make life happy; we would gladly leave him-but painful facts are yet to be told. 
               In the fall of the year 1856, the financial partner in the house of Van Blarcom, Howe & Berry was missing. Large rewards were offered for any information concerning him. But no tidings came, and his prolonged absence led to an examination into the affairs of the house, when it was found that Mr. Howe was a defaulter to a large amount. 
               It was the old, old story; speculation, heavy losses, concealment. It was a severe blow to the concern, but they weathered it, and would have stood perhaps to this day, had not the disastrous year of 1857 followed. In the commercial tornado that swept through the land, the house went down, and to make their ruin complete, their factory took fire and was burned. It was without insurance. 
               Then Mr. Berry, utterly broken in spirit, thought to restore his failing health by a voyage to Europe. But to no avail; he died almost immediately on his return home. 
               Mrs. Berry, now thrown upon her own resources sources, began to look around for means wherewith to help herself and child, Clayton-now grown to be a fine manly boy. She thought of the home of her childhood, where she knew she would be truly welcome; but the old farm was small, the soil was cold and worn out, yielding but a scanty subsistence to those already dependent upon it. And she thought of the detriment it would be to her son to remove him from the studies in which he was making such rapid progress. So, with the assistance of friends, she opened a small store in Grand street, and Clayton continued at the old school in Remsen street, under the tuition of Mr. Bush. 
               Ever foremost in his class, he won the approbation of his teacher, who took delight in watching the development of his rare intellectual powers. 
               Mr. B--, one of the trustees, will remember the boy who, on one occasion, drew tears from all eyes by the eloquent manner in which he described the death of an ancient hero. 
               At this time Clayton was a scholar in the South Second Street M. E. Sabbath School, then under the superintendence of J-- K--. 
                
               Mr. K-- saw in the boy the dawning of real genius, and invited him often to his house, ever enjoying the flashes of wit and sunshine that seemed always to follow the boy wherever he went. 
               One evening the store was closed, and Mrs. Berry was about to retire, when glancing at her son, she saw a look of deep care and sadness on his face. His head rested on his hand; his brow was clouded; and her fond heart was filled with anxious fears. She drew him gently to her, pushed back the clustering curls, and gazed in his earnest and thoughtful eyes. "You are sadly troubled to-night, my son; and it grieves me. Tell me the cause of it." 
               "Cause enough, mother, when you are toiling from early morning, until late at night to support me in idleness. I have never realized till to-day how selfish and unkind I must have seemed to you. I, a great strong boy, living upon the fruits of your industry, scarce knowing or caring how the money came. But, mother, it shall not be so any longer; I am fully determined to seek employment to-morrow. One of our boys has got a place in Stewart's, and there is room for another; and, after a while, I hope to earn enough to keep us both. Then, you shall live in some nice quiet street, like other people." 
               Mrs. Berry was proud of the spirit shown by her noble boy, but the cherished desire of her heart had been to give him a thorough education, then see him grow to manhood, fitted to adorn any position in life, a worthy son of his much loved father. 
               For this she had toiled and struggled, amid care and discouragements. But for this, she would gladly have laid down the burden of her life to sleep with him who reposed so peacefully on the sunny slope of the Cypress Hills. 
               So she told him, her labors had not been in vain. Fortune had smiled upon her. The little stock in the store was all hers, and there was a surplus stock laid away, sufficient, she thought, to give him a collegiate course. 
               Clayton tried to shake her resolution. And finding it to no purpose, he set to work with renewed energy, often studying far into the night. The commencement of the following year found him fully prepared for college. 
                
               The day of his departure was one of unmixed sadness to the widowed another. Her loved and cherished son, gone from her fond embrace, her sheltering care-gone into the world to form new ties, make new friends. The coming years might give to her a proud and manly form; but her boy no more forever. With many a tear she gave him to the care of a widow's God, the Father of the fatherless. 
               The days wore slowly on, till news reached her of his safe arrival. Then the letters came in rapid succession, breathing high aspirations and ardent hopes, and gladdening her heart with accounts of his rapid progress. 
               In one he wrote "Dear mother, what do you think of my studying law? The professor thinks my talents just suited to that profession; and if you approve I shall shape my course accordingly." 
               But we cannot follow him, step by step, in his career. Suffice it to say, he worked arduously and acquitted himself nobly, graduating with the highest honors; and when he left the college halls he bore with him the kind wishes of all, and a farewell letter from the President, in which he said: "Continue as you have begun, my young friend. Carry out the high impulses by which you have ever been actuated, and your name will yet be a household word in the land." 
               Among the first to welcome Clayton on his return home was Leander Scholes, a friend of his earlier years, and one who had not been forgotten during his absence. 
               He too was a young man of great promise, the very soul of honor; in short, the exact counterpart of Clayton Berry. 
               One day while walking in Bedford avenue they were joined by Edward Colton, whom Clayton at once new by name, though he failed to recognize in the tall flashily attired young man, the pale delicate young boy he had known in his school days. 
               Edward Colton was a gay, rollicking sort of a fellow, full of fun, and though considered a pretty good sort of. a chap, he was universally conceded to be rather "fast;" and many wondered to see him on terms of apparent intimacy with such a man as Leander Scholes. But there was about him a dangerous fascination that few could resist. 
               Clayton felt the influence of it, and, despite his better judgment, soon found himself on the friendliest footing with the man he had first looked upon with dislike. 
               The three walked, and talked of their boyhood days and the many changes that had taken place; then of the girls; and, as Clayton was a comparative stranger to most of those mentioned, Colton proposed that he should join them in their calls on New Year's, then just at hand. He readily assented, and when all was arranged a neat little card was prepared, bearing the names of the trio, thus:  
                     "EDWARD COLTON, LEANDER SCHOLES, CLAYTON BERRY. 18- 
                  
                
               The first of January dawned, bright and clear. It was a day to make or mar the destiny of many a young man. It was a day to make or mar the future of Clayton Berry. Yet no shadow of his coming fate rested upon his young heart, or stayed his bounding step; as he started forth to make his first New Year's call. 
               They soon reached the house of Mrs. Willow, and after chatting awhile, arose to take their departure, when Mrs. W. invited them to take refreshments, remarking at the same time: "You see, gentlemen, we have two tables-this is mine, and that is my daughter Mary's." Now, Mary was a scholar in Lee Avenue Sabbath School, and had been deeply impressed the Sunday before by the remarks of the superintendent, Mr. Lummus on the evil of drinking wine at New Year's calls; and as she could not prevail upon her mother to give up the accustomed wine, she begged the privilege of setting a temperance table of her own. "Now, gentlemen," said Mrs. Willow, "which do you prefer?" 
               "I must confess, I do not object to a glass of wine, once a year," said Colton, smiling. 
               "I object to it at any and all times; Mary hath chosen the better part, and I prefer her table," said Leander. 
               On leaving the house, he said to Colton, "I wish there were more girls like Mary Willow. If there were, there would be fewer drunkards made to-day." 
               "Drunkards!" said Colton, "that's a pretty hard name to give a fellow for taking one glass of wine." 
               "One glass of wine," returned Leander; "how many are there, that, once tasting, have resolution to stop? 'Touch not the accursed thing,' is my motto, and depend upon it, it is the only safe one." 
               "You are wiser, perhaps than the old patriarchs. Didn't Paul tell Bartimeus to take a little wine often, for his stomach's sake!" 
               Clayton and Leander laughed heartily at Colton's new rendition of the scriptures, Leander saying, "I believe it was Timothy that Paul recommended the wine to-and then medicinally." 
               "Well, we won't say anything more about it now, here is Ald. Armeadow's, and here we call." 
               In the spacious parlors they found some very pretty girls, of rare conversational powers. The airy nothings of the day were passed lightly over, then the conversation took a wider range. Shakespeare and the ancient poets were discussed, till Clayton felt his heart glow with unusual warmth, and when they arose to leave, and the inevitable refreshments were offered, he declined, saying, "I have enjoyed a 'feast of reason' I would not exchange for the most sumptuous repast." 
               Their next call was at Dr. Cheeseman's, in Lee Avenue. 
               Now the Doctor was blessed with two intelligent daughters, girls who understood all the great questions of the day, and with them Leander and Clayton were soon in animated discussion. 
               But Colton sat apart, looking weary and impatient, till his friends, seeing that he was annoyed at their long delay, arose to leave. 
               Mrs. Cheeseman urged them to take a cup of coffee first, but, bowing their thanks, they retired. 
               No sooner had they reached the street than Colton exclaimed : "Whew! what strong-minded girls! they are horrid bores, too! How under the sun you could enjoy their society is more than I can comprehend. Just wait till I show you the sort of girls I fancy. Just wait till you see Miss Marvin and her sister; and here we are at the Deacon's now." 
               They were ushered into the elegant drawing ing room, and Miss Magnolia Marvin arose to greet them. Tall and majestic, a perfect vision of loveliness, she advanced, extending her hand to Clayton. saying, "have I really the good fortune to see Mr. Berry, of whom I have heard so much! It is a pleasure indeed, to meet you." 
               Clayton blushed, and ere he could recover his self-possession, she had motioned him with a graceful wave of her 
                     beatiful
                     beautiful
                   hand to a seat by her side. 
               Clayton's heart beat almost audibly; but with a tact, peculiarly hey own, she drew him into conversation, and in admiration of her, he soon forgot his embarrassment. 
               Miss Marvin was a coquette of the first order, and having heard of the fine talents of the young lawyer, she determined to add him to the list of her conquests. 
               With many a cunning device she whiled away the time, while he remained by her side, a willing captive. 
               Leander, seeing his friend was spell-bound by her fascinations, said: "Gentlemen, it is growing late, are you aware that we have other calls to make?" 
               Clayton arose, but a little hand was laid upon his arm, and a winning voice said, "Oh do not go, Mr. Berry, till you have had a glass of wine with me." 
               "Thank you, dear Miss Marvin," said Clayton, "but you will excuse me when I assure you that I never drink wine." 
               "But, Mr. Berry," pleaded the gentle voice "this is not exactly wine; it is the pure juice of the grape. Father has had it in the cellar ever so many years, and it is not like drinking anything intoxicating, you know." So saying, she poured out a glass, full to the brim. 
               While Clayton stood irresolute, Colton raised his glass, and said, "Here's a Happy New Year." 
               Still he hesitated, when Miss Marvin turned her bewitching eyes upon him-"surely you will not refuse to drink with me-'many happy returns of this day!'" 
               Leander tried to gain his attention, but poor Clayton had eyes only for the beautiful syren who was luring him so steadily to his ruin. Another glance at the charmer, then, seizing the goblet, he drank his first glass of wine!
                
               Once out from the influence of her who had so beguiled him, Clayton felt a keen regret for what he had done. 
                
               "How could you so easily forget the good resolutions you have so often made?" said Leander. "It pained me more than words can tell to see you drink that wine." 
               "Well," replied Clayton, "I really did not like to do it, but there was no escape. You would not have me be rude to a lady?" 
               "No," said Colton, "and he has no right to force his puritanical ideas upon us. It is a pity if a man cannot drink once a year, particularly when a lady urges it." 
               "No lady would urge it," said Leander warmly, "and when she persuaded you to sacrifice your principles to gratify her vanity, I say she was a fiend-a viper." 
               "I will not hear you speak so of Miss Marvin," returned Clayton, the hot blood rising to his temples. And he pursued his way in silence; for though Leander had long been a bosom friend, he felt his indignation turn fiercely against him, for the wine had begun its work. 
               Leander felt keenly the alienation of his friend; and he saw that new dangers awaited him, and he determined to save him, if possible, at whatever cost to his own feelings. So, assuming a cheerfulness he did not feel, he said: "Well, we will not disagree about her; but take a look at some of my friends, the Misses Barker. I would not have you miss seeing them." 
               "But here is Mr. Smith's, one of our first men," said Colton, interrupting him. "Let us call here first!" 
               In Mr. Smith's brilliantly-lighted parlors they found a goodly number of city officials, a minister, a lawyer or two, and last, but not least, the Mayor. 
               Thrown for the first time into such society, Clayton carefully scanned each face-listened eagerly to every word, with a worthy ambition to stand one day with the foremost of them. The Mayor greeted him kindly, saying, "I once knew your father, 'he was a man, take him for all and all, we may never look upon his like again.' Yet I know not," continued he, musingly, "why his only son should not walk in his footsteps." 
               He was interrupted in his remarks by Mrs. Smith, who asked one and all to the refreshment table. 
               They gathered round the well-spread board. The wine sparkled, the jingling glasses made merry music, and wit and mirth flowed freely. 
                
               A toast was proposed. Leander, from the opposite side of the table, cast an imploring glance at Clayton; but Colton whispered in his ear: "It is too late to retreat now. See! the parson is touching the Mayor's glass. That is a signal for all to drink, so be a man, and do as the rest do;" saying which, he drank the contents of his glass, and Clayton did the same. 
               Leander, sick at heart, arose to leave, and his friends soon followed him. With tears he begged Clayton to delay no longer, but go immediately home. "Remember your mother, and by the love you bear her, escape from the snares that surround you while yet you may." 
               "I am no longer in leading strings," said Clayton, "and don't propose to go home till I get ready; and, feeling competent to take care of myself yet awhile, I will bid you good evening." Saying which, he took Colton's arm, and walked rapidly away. 
               Leander stood for a moment irresolute, scarce knowing what to do; but feeling that further remonstrance would avail nothing, he turned sorrowfully homewards. 
               "Well, I am not sorry to see the last of him," said Colton. "He has been a damper upon us all day, with his old womanish airs, and his fear of our getting tight. For my part I have brains enough to stand a glass of wine, or two, for that matter." 
               Another call, and yet another, and everywhere the wine. Clayton no longer hesitated, drank again and again, till Colton, seeing his hand grow unsteady, and his eyes gleam with a strange light, coaxed him away. 
               "Come, my boy, this is what I call real enjoyment; but it mustn't be carried too far. You are new to this sort of thing, you know, and must go it moderately"-and Colton reached out his hand to steady his friend, who grasped the railings for support. "Come, now, I think you had better go home." 
               "Never, till I have seen my dear angel, Miss Marvin; I fancied she saw me hesitate to drink, with something of scorn in her beautiful eyes. I will show her I can toss-can toss off a glass like a man." He reeled as he spoke, and fell heavily to the ground. 
                
               It is past midnight; all the houses that were so brilliantly illuminated a few hours since are now dark. The streets are now deserted, and no sound is heard save the occasional shout of belated bacchanalian. 
               Have all the people retired? No! there is one person, at least, whose eyes cannot close in sleep-the mother of Clayton Berry. She, for the first time in her life, fears something has gone wrong with her son. She listens to every sound; starting at every footstep; she waits, expecting to hear her son enter the door, but, as the footstep passes, she sinks back almost distracted. The clock strikes two! She hears an unusual sound of persons coming up the street. Their steps are slow and uncertain. She listens attentively; they seem to be dragging something-for she can hear the scraping on the walk. An awful suspicion crosses her mind. Perhaps some accident has befallen her son. But, as the footsteps passed the house, she dismissed the fearful thought from her mind, and falling into a deep reverie, for a time she noticed nothing. 
               She was startled by a violent ringing of the bell. She hastened down stairs, saying, "he has come at last." As she opened the door the light was extinguished by the wind, and at the same time something was thrown into the hallway at her feet. She screamed in terror, arousing the people in the house, and when the door was closed, and the lights were brought, she looked at the object on the floor, her eyes almost started from their sockets! The awful truth was apparent. Her son, her darling boy, thrown into the house by his companion, dead drunk! Her brain reeled! She cried, "Oh, God! support me;" then throwing her arms out wildly, swooned on the body of her boy. 
               How painful to write this part of our history. Yes, Clayton Berry was overcome by wine, and his companion, though intoxicated, was yet able to drag him to his mother's door. 
               It was late next day when Clayton awoke from his drunken sleep. He looked around bewildered, trying to recollect the occurrences of the past night, and as he raised himself in bed, a severe pain shot through his head. "I have no recollection of coming home," he mused. "I remember coming from Mrs. Winenman's house, but nothing further." Just then he heard a suppressed groan from his mother's room. He arose hastily, and taking his clothes from the chair, noticed they were soiled and torn. Then the horrid truth was apparent. He had been overcome by wine, and some one had brought him home. 
               Instead of going to his mother's room, he locked the door, and sat down overwhelmed with grief. 
               "How can I see mother again? How have I requited her kindness?" Remorse is said to be the most harrowing feeling of the human heart. Certain it is that Clayton Berry was, that morning, one of the most wretched of God's creatures. 
               About noon his mother knocked gently at his door, and asked "if he was well, and if she should get him some dinner." He answered that he was not well, and would keep his room until evening. "How can I look mother in the face again?" He said. "I am almost resolved to leave home, and hide my disgrace in some distant place. Oh, wretch that I am, to place myself in such a painful position!" 
               Towards evening Mrs. Berry called him again, but he said: "Let me wait till morning; perhaps I shall feel better." 
                
               So the sorrowing mother suppressed her yearning to converse with her son, and retired to her sleepless couch to await the morn. With Clayton, too, the night passed slowly. Now walking the floor uneasily, then throwing himself upon the bed, but not to sleep; ever and anon asking himself, "How can I ever meet mother? And then, too, it must be known to all in the house." 
               The next morning Clayton arose early and descended to breakfast. As he entered the room his mother greeted him with her usual manner, but there was a deep sadness in her face, and in the tone of her voice, harder to bear than any reproach. The meal was taken in silence, and when Clayton arose to depart to his business, his mother said "good bye, my son," and, bestowing her accustomed kiss, she threw her arms about his neck and burst into tears. 
               Gently disengaging her arms, he returned the kiss, and sobbing left the house. 
               It was many days before Mrs. Berry could talk calmly with her son, of all that occurred on that New Year's day. 
               Clayton, with deep humiliation, begged his mother's pardon, assuring her he would do so no more. 
               "With God's help," said his mother in low, reverent tones. 
               Did Clayton keep the pledge so solemnly made, that bright winter morning? 
               For weeks and months he did. But he was advancing very fast in popularity, making rapid strides in his profession, and winning hosts of friends, and it was hard to refuse always, yet his course was marked out, and he followed it with unfaltering step, till one day, when his duties were of a very arduous nature, the senior partner of the firm urged him to take something stimulating. He tasted. Only a taste; but the spell was broken. 
               Then followed the friendly glass now and then, only at long intervals, it is true, but slowly and surely undermining his resolution. He soothed his conscience by saying, "one glass cannot hurt me, and nothing shall tempt me beyond that." 
               Among the clients of Graham & Co. was a man named Brown, a Californian, rich and heavily involved in law suits. With him Clayton soon became intimate, and while out to dinner one day, deeply engaged discussing the cases, he forgot, and took his second glass of wine for that day. As was before mentioned, Clayton was an agreeable companion, and his society was sought by the first in the city. 
               The evenings that kept Clayton from his home, seemed long to Mrs. Berry, yet she excused it to herself by this thought-"He is young, and it is but natural he should seek the society of those of his own age." 
               Strange as it may seem, Edward Colton still continued on intimate terms with him; but Leander was not often found in their Company. 
               When he met Clayton alone he was the same kind friend, and exhibited a fondness, nay, even affection for him, not often shown by brothers. But his advice was unheeded, and his presence seemed a restraint. 
               On many evenings in the week, Leander might be found with other intelligent young men of the 'Burgh, at the Library in South Eighth street. 
               Clayton and Colton frequently spent their evenings in the same neighborhood, but how different. For Clayton had already become a moderate drinker, and, though he concealed it from many, his mother could not be deceived, and many a sleepless night she passed in gloomy anticipation of the future. 
               In one of the gilded saloons on the south side, frequented by those in the higher walks of life, there was one night a large company assembled to witness a game of billiards between a champion from New York and a gentleman in Williamsburgh, well known for his skill and fondness for the game. 
               During the evening the wine flowed more freely than usual, for many friends had met there, and the reprehensible practice of "treating" was often indulged in. Clayton, being an adept in the game, was often appealed to, thus bringing him into notice, and arousing the jealousy of Colton, who considered himself much the better player. And when some discussion arose he sneered at Clayton's decision, and called him a "dunce." Clayton felt the insult keenly, in the presence of so many strangers; but before he could find words to express his angry emotions, Colton added fuel to the flame by speaking in still rougher terms of the New York player. 
               Now, Clayton's sympathies had been with him through the entire game, and inflamed with wine, his indignation knew no bounds at what he considered a breach of hospitality, and he asked him angrily, "if he wasn't ashamed?" 
               "No," retorted Colton; "nor ever had cause to be, since the night I dragged you home." 
               Clayton sprang to grasp a "cue," when Colton anticipating him, seized one of the ivory balls and threw it, striking him in the face. 
               Maddened with rage and pain, Clayton cried out, "Your life shall pay for that!" and before his friends could prevent, he caught an empty wine bottle and hurled it at his head. Colton fell to the floor. Friends ran to his help, but he made no sound; while the blood streamed freely. 
               Dr. North was called, and soon pronounced his injuries serious. 
               Captain W., of the police force, who had been attracted by the noise, waited but to hear the Doctor's opinion-then placing poor Clayton under arrest, hurried him off to the Station house. 
               The reader will say, perhaps, that our hero is making swift progress downward. Let them look around, and see if they do not know one, at least, whose descent was as rapid. 
               On the night of Clayton's arrest, Mrs. Berry sat waiting for her son; hour after hour passed, and he returned not. At length morning dawned. A knock sounded at the door, she hastened to reply to it, and met, for the first time in many weeks, Leander Scholes. Fearing, she knew not what, she asked, "has anything happened to Clayton?" 
               "I came to talk with you about him," said Leander, evasively. 
               "Is he injured, tell me quickly;" she said, in great agitation. 
               Leander begged her to be calm, and then proceeded to tell her, as gently as possible, the occurrences of the past night, as he had learned them. 
               Leander accompanied Mrs. Berry to the Station House, where she was received with the characteristic courtesy of Captain W--, who was much affected, as he had known the family when Mr. Berry was living. 
               They entered the cell where Clayton was confined, and found him lying on a rude cot, his face buried in his hands. 
               "Oh, my son!" exclaimed Mrs. Berry, sinking down beside him. Clayton did not move. "Speak to me, or my heart will break." A suppressed groan was the only answer, for Clayton, overwhelmed with shame, could not look up. 
               Leander advanced, and taking Clayton's hand, said: "Do not despair, I have long been a friend, and will not desert you now." 
               Tears came to Clayton's relief, and when he could control his emotion, he said: "Oh, mother! if I had only taken Leander's advice I should not be here. What an awful night I have spent in this place. If there be a hell more tormenting, what must that hell be? Tell me, Leander, is Colton very badly hurt?" 
               "Yes, but the extent of his injuries cannot be known till 10 o'clock, when a consultation will be held." 
               "Mother," said Clayton, throwing his arms around her neck, "from this hour I am a changed being. In the long night just ended, my life has passed in review before me; and once out of this difficulty, I will never touch a glass of wine as long as I live. Oh! that fatal call on Miss Marvin! Would to God I had heeded your entreating look, Leander, as I stood beside her table." 
               While they were in the cell, word came to the Station House that Colton was dying; and as Mrs. Berry and Leander passed through the ante-room, every voice was hushed; for though those officers of the law were accustomed to behold crime in all its aspects, it appalled them to think of the fate of this young man, and the blow that yet must fall upon the stricken-hearted mother. 
               Colton died on the following day, and the Coroner's jury brought in a verdict: "Came to his death by injuries received at the hands of Clayton Berry." 
               Clayton thereupon was conveyed to the jail in Raymond street, to await his trial. Every effort was made in his behalf by friends. Eminent counsel was engaged, and many lawyers who had known him offered their services. 
               Seldom had prisoner so much to hope for. 
               The day of trial came. The court-room was crowded. The history of the case was known far and wide, and awakened general interest. And when the Judge asked the customary question, "Guilty or not guilty?" there was breathless suspense till Clayton, in a low voice, said: "Not guilty." 
               His counsel did all they could, urged the young man's character, his friendship for Colton, and his excitement upon receiving the blow from the billiard ball. And having exhausted the power of eloquence, the case was given to the jury. 
               They were out long; then came in for instruction on a point of law, and would gladly have acquitted him had they not sworn to give their verdict according to the evidence. After a time they came in and took their place, and the judge asked if they had agreed upon a verdict. 
               The foreman of the jury replied "they had." 
               "Guilty, or not guilty?" 
               "Guilty of manslaughter in the---degree; but recommended to the mercy of the court." 
               While he was speaking Mrs. Berry's gaze was rivetted upon him, and when he ceased she sank back beside Leander, who, since Clayton's arrest, had been her constant friend. 
                
               The judge said "he would pronounce the sentence, and as the prisoner had been recommended to mercy, it should be the lightest allowed by the law-States Prison for the term of two years." 
               It was with difficulty that Leander could support Mrs. Berry to the cars. She spoke not a word; shed no tears, for the fountain of her tears was dry. She was utterly crushed. 
               They sat down, and presently the foreman of the jury entered and took a seat by Leander, with whom he was already acquainted. A few remarks passed, and then he turned to Mrs. Berry, and with kindly words tried to console her, saying that "without doubt, the Governor would soon be induced to pardon her son." But his words fell upon dull ears. Mrs. Berry seemed past all feeling. But Leander's heart was full, for he remembered that it was at his house that Clayton took his first step in his downward career. Yes! Deacon Marvin, the father of Magnolia, was the foreman of the jury. 
               The next day a close carriage stopped at the jail, and Clayton, accompanied by a Deputy Sheriff, got in. They drove rapidly to the depot in Thirtieth street, and were soon on board the cars for Sing-Sing. When the train reached Yonkers Mr. Brown, the Californian, of whom we have spoken, came in, and seeing Clayton, extended his hand in greeting But the hand he sought was withheld. It was manacled? Clayton averted his face, while the officer in a few words told all that had happened in his absence. 
               Mr. Brown was shocked, thunderstruck, and turning to Clayton, said, "My dear young friend, my heart aches for you. Believe me, no time or expense shall be spared to bring about your release." 
               Arrived at Sing Sing, Clayton was hastened out, when a gaily dressed lady rudely jostled him, saying to a companion in sneering tones: "How very democratic our conveyances must be when a lady must be brought in contact with a 'jail bird.'" Miss Magnolia Marvin, on a visit to friends, failed to recognize in the criminal the acquaintance of other days. Clayton, however, knew her at a glance, and whispered through clenched teeth as she passed: "Viper, indeed!" 
               Within the prison walls the officer bade him farewell, and took his leave. 
                
               The warden hastily glanced over the Court papers, then turning asked about his previous character. Clayton seeing it was no idle curiosity that prompted the question, told him in a few words his career-since he made his first New Year's call. 
               The warden wishing to save him from contact with hardened criminals, assigned him the position of book keeper in the harness shop. But nothing could save him from the hated prison clothes. An icy chill passed over him as he arrayed himself in the garb of his deep 
                     degredation
                     degradation
                  . 
               He had been there but a few weeks when his mother, accompanied by Leander, came to see him. With difficulty she recognized her boy in his changed attire, and shorn of his beautiful hair. 
               But Clayton saw a yet greater change in her. Her step was slow and feeble. Her brow was graven with deep lines of care, and her breath came slowly, painfully. 
               The interview was short-neither could endure it-and it was many weeks before she came again. Then in her basket she brought many little articles to add to his comfort; many little tokens of the love which through good and evil report, had never ceased. But as she was about to leave, she drew him gently toward her and said: 
               "Clayton, I shall not come to see you any more. My strength is going very fast, and I feel that I have made the last journey I shall ever make. I bear with me a broken heart. Soon, very soon, I shall lie by the side of your father. And now, my child, will you try to meet me in Heaven, looking to Jesus for forgiveness and help?" 
               Clayton fell on her neck and burst into tears, sobbing as though his heart would break, saying, at length: 
               "Mother, I have never forgotten your teachings; and in my lonely cell at night I have prayed, and my soul has found comfort. And I can say, 'I the chief of sinners am, but Jesus died for me.'" 
               The mother held him in one long embrace, then departed-forever! 
               Her heart was indeed broken. She reached home, but with great difficulty, and the next morning was found dead! 
               When the sad tidings reached Clayton deep melancholy seized upon him. For a few days he performed his duties mechanically never heeding or speaking to those around him, then he fell violently ill with a fever, In his delirium, raving incessantly of his mother-"his lost mother"-then starting up, exclaiming, "I have been stung by a viper; Leander said she was a viper. Do you think so, Doctor?" 
               In the midst of his illness Mr. Brown came in great haste, and asked for the Warden. 
               He had kept his word; he had done all he could; success had crowned his efforts, and now he came, bearing in triumph to his friend a full pardon from the Governor. 
               "It was hardly necessary," said the Doctor, "his discharge was already on its way." He was dying with fever. 
               Mr. Brown gazed long and earnestly at Clayton, who seemed to know him, but could not be made to comprehend the object of his visit. 
               "Oh, Mr. Brown," he raved, "I have been stung by a viper! She was beautiful-ah, how beautiful! yet she was a viper, for she stung me." 
               During the night his faithful friend watched by his bedside, and in the morning he died. 
               The chaplain of the prison telegraphed the news of his death to Leander Scholes, and he hastened there at once, and had him placed in a neat coffin. The next day he, with a few friends, followed all that was mortal of Clayton Berry to the Cypress Hills, where they laid him to rest, with his father and mother. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            ASBURY PARK. 
            Lots for Sale. 
            ASBURY PARK is located directly opposite OCEAN GROVE CAMP MEETING GROUNDS, four miles below General Grant's Cottage at LONG BRANCH, NEW JERSEY. 
            The Park has a frontage of one mile on the Atlantic Ocean, and a roadway of half a mile on the banks of Wesley Lake. 
            Price of Lots, 33 x 100 feet, for the Present, from $50 to $400. 
            Rev. ALFRED COOKMAN, Presiding Elder STOKES, Rev. J.S. INSKIP, And some seventy other gentlemen have already erected beautiful cottages at Ocean Grove, thereby adding to the attractions of this unequalled Summer Resort. 
             
               NOTE FROM BISHOP SIMPSON. 
               "It gives me great pleasure to state that I have visited the grounds of the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association, and think them admirably for furnishing Christian families a sea-side resort in the midst of Christian influences. 
               
                  "Philadelphia, February 12, 1870. 
                  M. SIMPSON."
                
             
            ADDRESS: JAMES A. BRADLEY, 251 Pearl St., New York, or ALLAN COOK, Ocean Grove, N.J. 
          
       
   
