
    ----CITATION----
        Bartlett, C.A., Mrs. (1826?- ). Lillie Ray, or, Every Cloud Has a Silver Lining .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5747
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  Respectfully yours, Mrs. C. A. Bartlett. Age 48. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               LILLIE RAY: 
               OR EVERY CLOUD HAS A SILVER LINING. 
               A TALE OF REAL LIFE. 
             
            BY MRS. C. A. BARTLETT.
             
            
               HARTFORD: 
               PRESS OF THE CASE, LOCKWOOD & BRAINARD CO.
             
            1874. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, By C. A. BARTLETT, In the Office of the Librarian at Washington, D. C. 
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE author of the following narrative is well aware that, in order to have a preface read, it must be short.
             
            She will therefore briefly say: The story here penned is founded on facts. Indeed, many, very many, incidents narrated are penned in strict conformity to truth; while a few incidents are sprays of fancy plucked from imagination's realms. Also, in the grouping together the real incidents which transpired, just as here narrated, she has availed herself of the prerogative ever granted writers of fiction-that of so arranging and grouping scenes and incidents as to act harmoniously and form one continuous chain, or plot. Again I assert, the narrative is mostly true: and nearly all the characters here portrayed as living at the close of the story, are now living, little dreaming that those incidents referred to have been treasured up and help form material for a story to be perused by thousands. 
            How much of sorrow and anguish of soul we should meet at every step, could we unlock the treasures of the heart and unfold to our gaze the hidden experience of those around us-their trials and sorrows, too sacred for others to gaze upon! They are silently locked away in their own breasts, while they go out into the world with a smile on the countenance. 
                   
                     "How oft the smiling brow of joy, 
                     A sickening heart conceals. 
                     And through the cloister's deep recess- 
                     Invading sorrow steals." 
                  
               
             
             
            Though a shrewd observer of human nature cannot fail to detect a countenance on which traces of sorrow are indelibly engraven, to a casual observer, if a person smiles, he is considered happy. 
            But, though our beautiful earth is filled with sorrow and sin, still if we would ever strive to trust that good BEING who is so watchful over his creatures-strive to become submissive to our Father's will, oh! how much lighter would seem the load! how much easier to wear the chain which before seemed so galling! 
            Again, if we would endeavor to "look beyond" the dark cloud of sorrow, seeming pregnant with vengeance, we would always find the "silver lining," that bright spot whose silvery ray illumes the scene, and seems to blot out all the past darkness by its peaceful light! 
            May the reader and writer ever strive to look for the "silver lining" when passing under any cloud, ever so dark; and also may we both meet in that blest clime above where no dark clouds lower, but "joy in full fruition reigns." 
            
               AUTHOR.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. Lillie's early life-Meets Horace-Falls in love, 9
                
               CHAPTER II.Her health fails-Goes a journey-Return-Meets Horace-Goes to his father's-Her reception there-Return home-And attends school, 17
                
               CHAPTER III.Clarissa Bentley is married-A plot to deceive Lillie, 46
                
               CHAPTER IV. Lillie hears Horace is married-Her sorrow, 56
                
               CHAPTER V. She goes to school-Sees Mr. Leslie-Contemplates marriage-Her refusal-A dilemma, 61
                
               CHAPTER VI. She is firm in her refusal-Yields-Prepares for the nuptials-The wedding-Arrival at her new home, 75
                
                
               CHAPTER VII. Hears of her lover's fidelity-Her sorrow-Horace becomes a minister, 82
                
               CHAPTER VIII. Mrs. Rydon's malice-Horace hears of his loved one's marriage-Has brain fever, 88
                
               CHAPTER IX. Mrs. Leslie's new home-Death of her Willie-Their home burned down-Names her second babe after her lost Willie-Her literary efforts-Her health fails-Is very ill, 98
                
               CHAPTER X.Willie's illness-His death-Charlie's illness-His recovery-His grief for Willie, 113
                
               CHAPTER XI. Frederic returns home-Enlists as a soldier-Charlie enlists as a drummer, 130
                
               CHAPTER XII. Frederic and Charlie bid adieu to friends and start for their regiment-Charlie's first furlough-The barracks take fire-They are ordered south-Their captain's death-Siege of Vicksburgh-Ordered to Little Rock-To Camden-Skirmish with the rebels-Go eight days without rations-Escape capture-Fred is at Helena ill-Charlie comes out of the fight safe-Is ill-The .. regiment engage a new chaplain-Charlie and his chaplain friends, 135
                
               CHAPTER XIII. Chaplain Bentley takes leave of his daughter Clara-The young ladies form an aid society-Send off housewives, 149
                
                
               CHAPTER XIV. An awful battle-Charlie is wounded-Receives a housewife-Asks his chaplain to apprize his mother of his accident, 160
                
               CHAPTER XV. Mr. Leslie's death-Charlie's mother gets a letter, 165
                
               CHAPTER XVI. Mrs. Clarissa Rydon comes to the widow Leslie's-The widow receives her kindly-A glorious revenge-Her death-Charlie meets Clara-Falls in love-Obtains consent of the chaplain to marry her-Writes to his mother-She invites him to bring Clara and the chaplain to her house-Their arrival at Glenwood, 172
                
               CHAPTER XVII. The chaplain and Charlie prepare to return to the army-Chaplain Bentley informs the widow of his wife's death, and asks her hand in marriage-Is accepted-Preparations for the wedding-Charlie and Clara are to be married on the same day-The wedding-They visit the grave-yard-They return to their regiments accompanied by their wives-Houses draped in mourning-Receive news of our president's assassination-Their grief, 186
                
             
             
               POETRY. 
               The Stepmother, 205
                
               The Hopia Tree, 206
                
               The Broken Heart, 207
                
               My Angel Boy, 209
                
               An Infant's Grave, 210
                
               The Happy Trio, 211
                
               The Three Rose Leaves, 213
                
             
             
             
               EVA, THE PRAIRIE FLOWER. 
               CHAPTER I. Eva at the pawn shop-Her childhood's home-Her attachment to young Canfield-He goes to Australia-Proves false-She believes him false-And marries Aply-Has three children-Willie dies-The second Willie dies also-Her last and only one is killed by a colt, 217
                
               CHAPTER II. Mrs. Aply takes a journey for her health-Receives no tidings from her husband-Her anxiety-Never hears from him more-Her sufferings and toil, 229
                
               CHAPTER III. Conversation between Pettibone and his partner, Canfield-Aply's confession of guilt-Aply's death at Pike's Peak, 235
                
               CHAPTER IV. Eva goes into the book business-Becomes ill-Gets well and gets a position in the armory-An accident-A surprise-She falls senseless on the sidewalk-Lies ill-The riding party-Meets Canfield-Their overwhelming joy-The wedding day is fixed-A bridal gift-The wedding-The bride's gift to each of her shop-mate friends-The end, 248
                
             
             
               POETRY. 
                The Farewell, 268
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Lillie Ray, or, Every cloud has a silver lining 
             
                
               LILLIE RAY. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                   
                     Lillie's early life-Meets Horace-Falls in love-Goes to school-Hears that her lover is married. 
                   
                  "HAS Lillie returned?" enquired Horace Bentley of an elderly lady, whom we will designate as Mrs. Ray, and who had just proffered him a chair, in which he had seated himself. 
                  Lillie Ray, the young lady referred to, was a young maiden with black, sparkling eyes, and dark, glossy ringlets, over whom twenty-one summers had passed; and on the day in which we introduce her to the notice of the reader, she lay reclining on the kitchen lounge, after having been engaged in making tidy their humble home, until, nearly exhausted, she had thrown herself languidly down to rest en dishabille, while her mind was busily employed in reviewing past scenes and associations. But, as Lillie will be one of the principal characters who will figure in our narrative, it may not be inappropriate to make a few remarks relative to her childhood before proceeding further with our story. 
                  Mr. Ray, Lillie's father, was a farmer on a moderate scale, and, with a large family to support, and much illness in his family, found it to be all he could do to give his children a common English education. Consequently, Lillie had been early inured to privations, and, although she had endeavored to stem the tide of adversity's foaming billows with courage and perseverance, yet, sometimes she was obliged to stand still and allow the raging billows to dash around her until their fury seemed appeased, when she would again urge her way through the opposing current. 
                  But notwithstanding, Lillie considered her education very limited; still she had many opportunities of gaining knowledge at home, of which thousands are deprived: for both of her parents were intellectually rich. Both father and mother had, previous to their marriage, been employed as teachers, and Mr. Ray had followed teaching in the village of Harlow for many years subsequent to his marriage-indeed, all of his eldest children had been his pupils. With such parents, the children must eventually keep acquiring knowledge, I care not if they never saw the inside of a school-room. 
                  How pleasant the evenings of that fireside: where "father" was perhaps "working out a sum" for one of the children; while another would be seated at the writing-table, trying to form letters after a "copy" just written by "father;" and two or three more seated away in one corner studying their grammar lesson. The children of such parents must have a strict account to render at that day of "final judgment," if they do not make intelligent and virtuous men and women. 
                  Her parents were not only virtuous and intellectual, but they were truly pious. Mr. Ray was an Episcopal Methodist, and for many years was a licensed "exhorter"; and now, as his children were verging into manhood and womanhood, he was reverenced by his younger brethren as one of the "Fathers." Both parents were practical Christians; and they early taught their children to trust that Good Being who is ever mindful of His creatures, and to love that dear Redeemer who "bought them with His blood." 
                  Although what the world calls "poor," they were "rich in faith." Thus, their early teachings were of such a nature as, in a measure, to prepare the mind of Lillie for the dark mazes of sorrow through which she was destined to pass as she pursued life's journey. 
                  Four manly brothers and four lovely sisters, besides Lillie, were the congenial spirits which together conspired to make glad the fireside of that cottage home. 
                  About twelve months previous to the time when I introduced Lillie to the notice of the reader, she had accidentally met and formed an acquaintance with a young gentleman by the name of Horace Bentley. Tall and commanding in appearance, with an eye which beamed with intelligence and good humor: to see him, was to admire him. Lillie had never believed in "love at first sight;" but the following entry was afterwards found in her journal: 
                  "April 8th. To-day drank tea at Mr. Bentley's, where I was introduced to a younger brother of Bentley's; I think they called him Horace. He seemed truly a congenial soul! What a fund of wit and good humor, and so intelligent!" 
                  Soon after her first interview with him, he sought her at her father's humble dwelling, and craved permission to address her. Lillie had accepted the addresses of several young gentlemen at different periods of her life, not for a "flirtation," merely, but "for company's sake," she said. She loved the intercourse of congenial minds. Lillie had never loved; yet, in her intercourse with society, and her knowledge of human nature, she had long since learned that often deep treachery is hidden beneath a mask of love and friendship; young people of both sexes delighting in conquest, just for the sake of conquest, not taking into account the irretrievable ruin of a broken heart. And even Lillie would have gloried in making conquests; but she knew it was not right, and would not allow such an impure principle to predominate. 
                  She was extremely cautious, and rather distrustful of human nature; not at all anxious to add to her circle of select friends. Still, our heroine had a nature over which love, when its time came, would rule with absolute sovereignty. No half-heartedness, but it would be an all-absorbing passion, if ever she drank from its delicious fountain. 
                  After consulting those dear parents who were ever ready to counsel with wisdom, and finding them favorably impressed with the stranger's appearance, she gave him permission to address her. Visit succeeded visit, and ere she was aware of it, her heart was no longer her own-but she knew it not. She had fancied her heart proof against all encroachments of the affections. "Let others fall in love if they will," she would laughingly say to her lady friends; and she was not aware that "Cupid" had already made inroads on that too sensitive heart; but it was so. 
                  Lillie had been for several years engaged in the then unremunerative employment of teaching school. About the time of her first interview with Horace, she engaged for a term of four months near her father's. The district was large, and as in those days teachers "boarded 'round," her strength was often taxed to the utmost to reach her boarding place after her day's toil was over: often too fatigued to taste a mouthful of food-only rest, so as to be prepared for the morrow's duties. 
                  During this term she had forty-nine pupils, and for her services received only a scanty pittance, hardly sufficing to keep her wardrobe replenished with the plainest apparel,-without taking into consideration the oft repeated physicians' fees, which arose in dread array before her, and which would so quickly empty the little purse where she had, by dint of economy, managed to hide away a few dollars. 
                  But Lillie loved her pupils dearly, and received their warmest love in return. At mid-day recess, they would hie away to the green woods and return loaded with evergreens and flowers, with which they would beautify and adorn the school-room, making it to resemble a flower garden. 
                   
                  One lovely afternoon as Lillie was busily engaged in listening to her classes, word came that "the county superintendent would visit the school;" and knowing him to be an accomplished scholar, besides being one of the "upper ten," our heroine felt much embarrassed. Oh! if she could only hide herself! thought our timid maiden. But, after examining the classes in their respective studies, he expressed himself as being "highly pleased" with their progress; and then, looking around, added some enconiums on the "taste" manifested in the decoration of the school-room. She felt a new stimulus to action. Her cheeks assumed a carmine hue as he spoke her praises; "but for once," thought she, "the toils of the obscure and humble are appreciated by the learned and the gifted spirits of earth." And that night she retired with a new incentive to action. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                   
                     Lillie's health fails-Goes a journey-Her return-Meets Horace-Goes to school. 
                   
                  AS the term drew near its close Miss Lillie's health became seriously affected from over-exertion: she grew nervous and sad. She longed, O, how ardently, for an association with the gifted and the learned, and to slake her thirst for knowledge at the fountain of wisdom. 
                  And, as she realized that her toilsome occupation would only serve to occasionally furnish her with requisite apparel to satisfy the plainest mind, and now and then satisfy a physician's fee, (for Lillie was often ill,) with no hope in future of satisfying her aspirations for knowledge, she grew melancholy and disheartened. 
                  One morning, after passing a night of feverish, restless anxiety-tossing to and fro upon her pillow, hardly closing her eyes in slumber, she formed a sudden resolution to wander-somewhere, she cared not whither-sick and tired of battling with poverty's billows-anywhere, only to lay down her wearied body in peace and repose. She started, as was supposed, for the school-room, after having taken her seat at the breakfast table, but eating nothing. She started not for school, but to wander. 
                  A spirit of restlessness which she could not control seized her, and instead of taking the path leading to the school-room, she chose a road leading in an opposite direction. She knew not whither she was going, nor did she care; her brain seemed all on fire. Over strange fields, and along strange roads, and past strange houses she went. Sometimes laughing hysterically to think what she was about, and then in perfect desperation it seemed that her brain would burst. About mid-day she ventured to call at a house and ask for a drink of water, which was granted. The inmates of the house looked at her sorrowful countenance with pitying glances, and offered her food; but no-she was too fatigued and heartsick to eat. There were some children in the front yard playing-looking so happy! O, how did Lillie in her desperation envy them! She inquired of one of the children the name of the village, and they replied "Adams." She then knew she must have traveled twenty miles, besides all the meanderings she had made, for she well knew where, in the geography of her state, was the location of Adams. And still that spirit of nervous excitability grew every moment more intense, as she became more fatigued; and her desire to ramble and go on, no one knew whither, grew stronger every moment-and, as any person acquainted with a sensitive, nervous temperament, will readily perceive, that it was not insanity, but a morbid debility of the nervous system, caused by over-exertion, mentally and physically, and all that was required to restore the equilibrium of the mind was quiet and rest, and an appropriate sphere in which to move where she could satisfy her lofty aspirations. 
                  After a while she started on again, refusing the food so kindly proffered her by those kind hearts; for many eyes were turned pityingly and wonderingly upon her sad face. On, on she went, thinking and pondering over her vexations and transforming every mole-hill into a dark towering mountain, as such a morbid state of the mind and nerves often will. There are but few, very few, who can feel thus deeply, but Lillie was one of those few. 
                  Night was fast approaching; what should she do-where seek to shelter her weary body for the ensuing night? Where should she go to calm her agonized mind, and cool her fevered brain? Nearly in despair-on, on she walked; sometimes half running in a wild, half-frantic manner; then again walking leisurely along, musing as she went on. 
                  As the sun began to descend in the western horizon, the heavens also began to gather blackness, and the clouds already pregnant, large drops of rain commenced falling on the head of the weary and almost fainting Lillie. 
                  On looking 'round she espied a little ahead an elegant-looking mansion on the left, just as she was leaving another strange village. Something seemed to whisper her to enter the house. Shall not we think guardian spirits were watching 'round Lillie in her sadness? But I am digressing. She obeyed the whisperings, and seeking admittance begged a drink, which was kindly granted. In the room in which Lillie was shown sat a young lady elegantly attired, of beautiful form, and fascinating manners; also an elderly lady, to appearance about forty-five, of so mild and heavenly deportment, one would fancy themselves in the presence of a superior being as they gazed on her benign and heavenly countenance. She raised her loving eyes from beneath her glasses, and gazing tenderly into the face of our heroine, seemed to be reading her very soul; and, on seeing the tear beginning to moisten Lillie's eyes, she gently spoke: "My dear, you seem to be in trouble." And O, how silvery were those accents of sympathy-how sweet they sounded! Lillie almost fancied an angel was before her, as the lady continued, "Let the cause of your sorrow be what it may, remember that there is no sorrow on earth but heaven can heal." And thus did she in that sweet, holy tone, strive to bind up the broken heart of our sad heroine. 
                         
                           "Oh words! sweet words! A blessing comes 
                           Softly from kindly lips; 
                           Tender, endearing tones that break 
                           The spirit's drear eclipse." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  Lillie felt that Heaven had directed her steps to that house. The tears flowed in torrents as she silently listened to those words of love and kindness. Such words are a balm to a wounded spirit. That terrible pressure on her brain and heart seemed relieved; and she soon became sufficiently quiet and sane, that she could answer with perfect composure the interrogatories of her new friend. When she first entered the house the kind hostess invited Lillie to partake of some supper; but she firmly refused; she had no desire for food. But on learning from Lillie that she was a resident of Marlboro-that she was engaged in the honorable though toilsome occupation of teaching, that her name was Ray, &c., she then informed Lillie that her husband had some slight acquaintance with the Rays, and she would not be satisfied unless she ate some supper, after having fasted so long; and with a keen perception of the delicate mind she had to deal with, she ordered some food to be placed on a table in a room aside from the dining room where the family had eaten supper, and thither she lovingly led our sad wanderer and insisted on her partaking food, and while Lillie partook took sparingly, she sat by her side chatting pleasantly. She soon ascertained where the true cause of Lillie's fancied trouble lay-in over-exertion in stemming poverty's tide. She then counselled her, O, so wisely and lovingly, and as an angel would have done. Indeed Lillie felt the influence of that sweet holy conversation soothing every ruffled feeling in her breast, until she was herself again. How few there are in this world who can thus bind up the wounded soul. Would to heaven there were many more of those gentle, loving, and wise hearts! 
                  The lady insisted on our heroine remaining with her over night, and everything which love could do to soothe Lillie's chafed spirit was done; and she was finally shown to her sleeping-room, where, fatigued as she was, she soon sank into a slumber from which she did not awake until late next morning, and then she was aroused by her kind hostess entering her room with wash bowl and towel for Lillie to perform her morning ablutions, kindly enquiring how she had rested, if the fatigue of the previous day had made her ill, &c. 
                  After breakfast was served, her kind hostess informed formed Lillie that her husband, Squire Strong, would take his carriage and carry her to her father's, if it was in accordance with our heroine's wishes, adding that her husband had a "slight acquaintance with the Rays." Miss Lillie could not express her gratitude and joy at this renewed demonstration of their kindness, and with a heart too full for utterance she accepted their offer. 
                  On her departure for home she presented her hostess with a much valued book which had been given her by a loved brother then in Wisconsin, as a token of her gratitude, which little volume she chanced to have in her pocket. 
                  On arriving at her father's, nothing could equal their astonishment, as Squire Strong took occasion of Lillie's absence from the sitting-room to acquaint her parents with the circumstances of finding her so far from home. They supposing her happily engaged in her school-room, had had no uneasy thoughts about her. They were truly grateful to Squire Strong and his estimable lady for their kindness to their beloved Lillie, for Lillie was a favorite at home. She stayed at home a few days to recruit her enfeebled health, and then returned to her duties in the school-room, where she continued a few weeks longer with usual success. But alas, her health again failed, she became again nervous and excitable. It was visible to all that over-exertion was the cause of that sad, desponding state of mind which was causing this sort of half-delirium, an extreme debility of the nervous energies. Her friends were justly alarmed, and her brother Charles proposed that she should leave school and its attendant duties and accompany him to Upper Canada, where an older brother and more distant relatives resided, hoping a change of air and scenery might prove beneficial to her-"for," said Charles to his parents one day, "she has toiled hard long enough, let her go with me and have a little rest." Lillie, not at all averse to accompany Charles, whom she nearly idolized, soon obtained permission of the district school board to dismiss her school two weeks previous to the expiration of the term for which she had engaged, and prepared to accompany Charlie, as he was 
                        familarly
                        familiarly
                      called, on his intended tour. Horace paid her a farewell visit, and it was mutually agreed between them that all correspondence should cease between them during Lillie's absence. They reasoned thus-they were "both young," their minds unsettled, and at parting both Horace and Lillie were free to make any other choice, or form any associations they chose to. But what pen can paint Lillie's feelings at the thought of being separated from him, for weeks and months. She regretted ever making any arrangements to go, but she could not retrace her steps; no, they would readily guess the reason-and more than that, her health required the sacrifice; she would go. It would test the strength of his love, she thought. Trunks were packed, "good byes," and kind wishes were interchanged, and Charlie and his sister were on their way to Sackets-Harbor, where they were to take a boat bound for Kingston, U. C. As we wish to hasten to events of more interest in our narrative, we will pass over the trifling incidents of traveling, and merely say, their journey was pleasant, and everything connected with it delightful and well calculated to rebuild the nervous energies of our Lillie. One alloy, only, in her cup of happiness-he was not with her. 
                   
                  On their arrival at Coburgh they were welcomed by her brother's family, and numerous other relatives and friends with whom Lillie had formed an acquaintance on a former visit to the same place. Many were the happy hours which Lillie passed among her Canadian friends, and no means were left untried to make her happy, and bring back the roses to those pale cheeks. But the image of one who was dearer to her than life itself, was ever with her; and although when mingling with Charlie's friends, she, to please him, endeavored to seem cheerful, and at times was unnaturally brilliant; yet, in the most gay society, there was a vacancy which nought but Horace's own presence could fill. A part of her own self seemed lacking,-gone. The winter finally passed, and spring in all her loveliness made her appearance, and Lillie was on her return to her native state. With joy she was welcomed by her parents and friends, and all was happiness at the cottage. 
                  "But, where is Charlie?" "O, he is coming in a few weeks," was the reply, "and will bring a lovely bride." Yes, Charlie had wooed and won a sweet orphan, as fair as the rose or lily, and would soon show his treasure to his friends at home. 
                  A few days had elapsed after Lillie's return home ere she received any intelligence from Horace, his residence being quite a distance away, and consequently he was not apprised of her return. But at last the tidings reached him. 
                  One fine, lovely afternoon, Lillie having spent the day in laborious domestic toil until quite exhausted, she threw her wearied body in "dishabille," languidly down to rest on a kitchen lounge, while her mind was busily engaged in reviewing past scenes and associations. And involuntarily her mind would turn to that one dearer than all other friends, and she inquired within herself, "Is he still unchanged? Is he true? I do wish I could see him." Just as these thoughts were revolving in her mind she chanced to raise her eyes to the window near where she was reclining, and she had a glimpse of some one approaching the door. Something within whispered: "It is him!" Joy and happiness! A rap, and Horace Bentley was admitted. But the maiden had flown to another room to make her toilette: and that heart was beating so 
                        tumultously
                        tumultuously
                      that she must have a moment to become calm enough to greet him in a lady-like manner. 
                  But she knew it was him-she heard her dear mother speak his name, and she heard that loved voice, so well-known to her ear, inquire for "Lillie." 
                  Horace had heard of Lillie's return, and although their intercourse had formally been broken off, yet how futile all outward barriers where two loving hearts are bound to each other. How did he long to again behold the maiden of his choice;-her he prized above all others! 
                  Lillie did not soon return to greet her lover, and why? Not because she did not wish to see him-no; it was the happiest moment of her life, now she was near him again; but Lillie was characterized by a timidity amounting to a fault, and her heart beat wildly with joy at the prospect of again seeing him, still she was obliged to wait some minutes before she could rally sufficient courage to meet and salute him she loved. 
                  Mrs. Ray, fearing Horace would take offence at her delay, became impatient and despatched a summons for Lillie to come "and see a friend." She at last made her appearance; but who could have guessed that beneath that quiet, seeming indifference, lay a hidden fountain of deep and lasting affection, which nought but death could ever destroy. Lillie saluted Horace coolly, merely bowing respectfully; and Mrs. Ray, still more fearful now lest Horace might be deeply offended at her coolness, ventured a mild rebuke to Lillie for her strange conduct. But Miss Lillie turned the affair into a bit of pleasantry, and ere long her reserve gave way, and they were conversing freely as in former days. 
                  Horace knew too well those loving glances which would beam from those dark eyes to doubt Lillie. There is a language in the eye of an intelligent person not to be misconstrued. 
                  Horace brought a message from his mother, desiring Lillie to come and stay with her for a while, and assist her in domestic affairs, her own health being frail. Horace, of course, urged the suit. Lillie thought it would be the height of imprudence, as it was a well known fact that they had formerly corresponded. But Horace assured her that he should not be at home, unless on a visit, as business demanded his attention abroad. Lillie consulted her parents and other judicious friends relative to the propriety of the step, and as it was considered too taxing to the mental powers for her any longer to act in the capacity of an instructress; and her position in life making it necessary that she should obtain a livelihood by her own exertions, that she might not burden her dear father who had struggled with adverse winds for years, it was finally decided by all that she should go, on condition that Frederick, a younger brother of Horace's, should come for her. 
                  A day was specified, and Lillie, trembling, lest neighbored gossip might assail her hitherto untarnished name, reluctantly prepared to go with Frederick when he should come for her. 
                  The day rolled around, when lo! Horace made his appearance in splendid equipage. He made some trivial excuse about Frederick being "needed at home," but the honest truth was he could not bear the idea of any one else enjoying the company of Lillie but himself. 
                  Again their thoughts were interchanged through a long day's ride, and they found their correspondence ence already renewed as if by magic without any formality seeming necessary. Blissful hours! O, could they have lasted! When they arrived within a few miles of Mr. Bentley's they overtook Miss Clarissa Bentley, a twin sister of Horace's, who was teaching school in that vicinity, and who was now on her way to her boarding house. Horace introduced the young ladies to each other, but while Clarissa was very courteous to Lillie, as the friend of her brother, still Lillie could not help but notice a shade of contempt and disappointment overshadow her brow as she gazed on the unassuming cottage girl. "Why is it," thought she-"perhaps she wishes her brother to bow to some shrine whose external appearance is made brilliant by diamonds and rich array." Lillie, too, was disappointed. She had hoped that "dear sister" of whom he had so frequently made mention, would prove, on acquaintance, to be a congenial spirit, but she was not. She took a seat in the carriage with them and rode to her boarding place; there Horace handed her from the carriage, and they soon after reached Mr. Bentley's. Lillie was warmly welcomed, and treated with much kindness by Horace's parents and all the brothers and sisters, Clarissa excepted; she from the first seemed to dislike her. Lillie soon felt at home in Mr. Bentley's house; and Clarissa's scorn and contempt was lost sight of, only occasionally when she was home on a visit, she would now and then vent a little caprice at the humble cottage-girl. But she finally relinquished that, for she plainly saw that all the family were true friends to Lillie, and all her attempts at abuse were futile. 
                  But one fact pained Lillie deeply; she could not but observe that all the family considered her as one of its members. She felt that she ought to undeceive them, but how, or in what manner to perform so delicate an affair she could not decide. They no doubt considered her as engaged to Horace, and Mrs. Bentley seeming to view her as already one of her daughters, insomuch that she requested her to superintend the domestic department, and relieve her of some of her cares of mind which her failing health rendered her unable longer to bear up under. 
                  Lillie's heart too plainly told her that she loved Horace, and she had no reason to doubt the sincerity cerity of his affection, but at the same time she viewed the marriage covenant as a solemn and a holy rite, which, though so often trifled with, she felt to be a subject of vast magnitude. Lillie pondered over the subject with prayerful solicitude, often seeking wisdom from heaven to direct her steps; and while she pondered on the responsibilities and duties of a married life, they seemed to her view to be of mountainous size, and she felt that she could never assume so responsible a position. Many and weighty were the reasons she assigned for her choice of a single life. 
                  We will briefly notice one or two of those reasons. Lillie loved her Redeemer; and, as she thought of thousands of fellow-creatures living in ignorance of that blessed Gospel, so purifying not only to individuals, but in a national point of view, then her generous soul longed to fly to heathen lands, and there, forsaking friends, home, and country, devote her life to the noble task of instructing the darkened minds of pagan children. She believed that God had called her to improve her small talents in instructing poor, degraded children of heathen lands in the way to heaven. 
                   
                  But her limited education had been a barrier to her offering herself to a Missionary Board. Poverty stared her in the face and was an insurmountable obstacle, preventing her acquiring such an education as she knew she must have to ensure her usefulness. But should she assume such ties and responsibilities which would prove a barrier to her performing the duties God had assigned her, should he in infinite wisdom open a path in which she could act? "No," she replied, "I will remain as I am; perhaps the road may yet be opened in which I may be of use to those dark and benighted minds, and teach them the way to heaven." 'Twas thus she mused, as day after day rolled on, not fully realizing that her heart was bound to another with a tie so strong that nought in life could rend it. A short time after her arrival at Mr. Bentley's, Horace wished her to accompany him to witness the celebration of our National Independence on the time-honored 4th of July. 
                  "There is to be an oration, and our party is a select one, consisting of brother and sister Hamilton, George Rydon and Clarissa, Frederick and Cyrus, and Lillie and insignificant I-!" urged Horace one day, ending the last sentence with a roguish glance at Lillie. 
                  Yes, Lillie would go. Horace procured a splendid carriage with two seats, in which George and Clarissa, and Horace and Lillie were to go, and Mr. Hamilton and lady, and the two brothers in another, comprising a fine little family party bound for a pleasant ride. 
                  The carriage was drawn by a span of fiery bay horses, who seeming at first unmanageable, and Lillie being by nature timid, she was quite averse to enter the carriage. But Horace held the reins, and an unseen Power protected them, and no harm resulted from the fractious steeds. 
                  The two sisters were elegantly attired, but Lillie was arrayed in simple white. No costly gems or rich array would a stranger have beheld had he noticed our heroine on that festive day: but Lillie was, in spite of the howling tempest of poverty, happy. Happy! yes: for she felt that she possessed that inestimable pearl,-more to be valued than all earth's glittering treasures: the pardon of her sins, sealed by the blood of CHRIST-and she was truly happy. 
                   
                  The two lovers conversed freely during their ride, and both felt that their congenial spirits were linked together in a bond of holy love which naught in life could ever rend. No longer existed any doubts of each other's sincerity; for they each felt that they were beloved by the other. 
                  They made no solemn vows or pledges-nor was their love like the foaming billow, which arises in magnificent splendor, dashes its sparkling brilliancy for a moment, and is gone; but it resembled the still, rippling rill, calm and silent, but steady, and constant in its murmurings. 
                  On arriving in town, they listened to an oration, then partook of a sumptuous dinner in a grove near by, and then returned home, weary, but happy. 
                  Day after day rolled around, their affection growing stronger and more fervent each day, until Lillie began to realize the danger she was in. She had viewed it as sinful and destructive to true piety to unite with an unprofessor, or an ungodly person, and as she strove to live a Christian herself, she felt she must place no hindrance to her progress in the path of piety. 
                   
                  What course should she pursue? While this subject was revolving in her mind, she came in possession of a work entitled, "Guide to young disciples." She perused its pages with avidity-realizing her own danger-but not possessing sufficient decision of mind to flee from it. While thus musing, a pious, talented minister, an uncle of Horace's, came to Mr. Bentley's on a visit: to him Lillie applied for counsel. 
                  His reply was decided, "that no truly pious person should in any case unite themselves by the ties of matrimony to an ungodly person." 
                  Sometimes Lillie had faith to believe Horace would be converted, and many were the prayers she offered up in behalf of her lover. 
                  One peaceful summer's eve as the sun was fast sinking in the western horizon, Lillie, as she was wont to do, took her testament and prepared to repair to a beautiful grove near by for the purpose of meditation and prayer. The scenery around Mr. Bentley's was picturesque and sublime, and as Lillie was a lover of nature's beauties, it was often a source of great enjoyment for her to ramble through the lovely groves and over soft velvety fields, and while listening to the sounds of melody from the whippoorwill and other sweet songsters with which those groves were filled, her soul would be drawn out in sweet and holy contemplation of the works of God. 
                  As she passed Horace, who was leisurely reclining on the front steps, he inquired where she was going, adding, he had often noticed her walking in that direction, and presuming on their intimacy, asked permission to accompany her. 
                  Lillie at first evaded a reply, and felt an innate repugnance to having even him accompany her in those sacred walks; but seeing his solemnity, her permission was granted, and they walked on arm in arm, quietly and serious, but lovingly. As they were thus walking, Horace broke the silence by asking Lillie to pray for him. She was both pleased and surprised! Was one barrier to her union with him she loved about to be removed? Together they knelt in that lovely place, those two loving hearts, to present a petition to the "King of Kings." Skeptics and Infidels, who deny the great Parent of the Universe, may become disgusted at this point in my narrative, and with scorn and derision lay aside the book in disdain; but we trust the majority of our readers will perceive a beauty, a loveliness in thus worshiping the Great All-Father. What sight on earth more pleasing than to see two young and fascinating people bowing in humble worship? 
                  But to return. Lillie prayed earnestly, for she felt deeply. Horace soon commenced praying for himself, and with such earnestness! Long did they tarry there pleading with Jesus. Lillie had faith to believe that God would hear and answer her prayers in behalf of her friend and lover. They at last arose and returned to the house, Horace trembling like an aspen leaf, so deeply was he wrought upon by the divine spirit-Lillie happy in Jesus. And ever and anon would a glad shout arise from a heart which felt that she was redeemed from sin! Yes, Lillie was truly happy! And she felt assured that her prayers were even now being answered in Horace's behalf. She remarked to him: "You will yet be a minister of the gospel." Was it prophetic? 
                  Days rolled on; Lillie often conversed freely with Horace relative to his soul's welfare, but still his mind seemed clouded; unbelief seemed the hindrance to his grasping hold of those precious promises and be saved. Sometimes Lillie fancied he might be deceiving her relative to his desires for salvation, in order to secure his prize. But no, he could not feign such deep sorrow for sin as he manifested. She was in a dilemma. While she felt that she could not, consistent with her present views, marry Horace, at the same time she could not tear herself from him! She saw her danger, but was powerless to flee from it. Thus she reasoned day after day, the tie which bound those two hearts together growing stronger every hour, until Lillie resolved to go home; and as she would only meet him at distant intervals, her mind would be more at rest, and she consequently better able to decide upon a wise course. 
                  With her, to resolve was to act. She accordingly penned a short letter to her father, stating her desire to return home. This was done without the knowledge of Horace or any one of Mr. Bentley's family; for Lillie too well knew her own weakness, and the opposition she would meet with from Horace, had she mentioned it to him. She felt that she must go home, where the reasoning faculties would again have a chance to act properly. A week or more had usually elapsed after writing home before receiving an answer; and Lillie's surprise was great when, only two days after her letter home was mailed, as they were about taking their places at the tea-table, a messenger arrived with a carriage to convey her home. 
                  Lillie was now at a loss what to do. She had not made the slightest preparation for the journey, and Horace was not at home that day; and the messenger insisted on returning, or starting on his return, immediately after tea. Could she go without one farewell word from him? Yes, go she must. Her clothes were hastily packed, and, telling Mrs. Bentley to "tell Horace and Clarissa good bye," she was soon on her way to her childhood's home. 
                  If she could only have seen him and bade him farewell, she could have gone with a happy mind. But truly "the path of true love never runs smooth." And never was a truer proverb. But little did Lillie think that she had heard the last words of love from his lips she would ever hear! received the last loving kiss from him she must ever enjoy! and clasped that true hand for the last time! Had such an ending been faintly whispered to her loving heart by some hovering angel-spirit, surely Lillie would not-could not, have torn herself away thus! 
                  Another circumstance served to spread a gloom over her otherwise joyful anticipations of meeting loved friends at home. Lillie had had a conversation with her lover in the parlor that morning, and she had made some remarks which manifested more warmth of feeling than was consistent. And although it could not come under the head of a "lovers' quarrel," still Lillie could not bear the thought of leaving without an explanation. But that explanation never was made. 
                  Oh! how careful should we be, in our intercourse with those we love, to ever speak kindly, lovingly, and part even for a short time in union. How very many who have allowed some cool remark, or unloving act to take place, and have been unexpectedly separated from that one to whom that word was spoken; I say how many, would give worlds, if possible, could they have an opportunity to make restitution, and receive a kiss of forgiveness; but regrets are all unavailing in many others, as well as the case we here notice. 
                  Love and kindness greeted Lillie's return among her family friends, but that last conversation with Horace disturbed her otherwise tranquil hours. That last interview, together with his image, haunted her whether waking or sleeping Sometimes she thought of writing to him, which, considering their past intimacy, would have been entirely proper; but her false sense of maidenly propriety took alarm instantly, and she rather chose to let those few words go unexplained until he saw fit to write, when in her reply to him, she would make all right. 
                  Horace, meanwhile, a little piqued at her leaving his father's in so sudden a manner, and fearing from that last interview what reception a letter might meet with, delayed writing, hoping to present himself in person at Mr. Ray's soon, and receive his sentence from her own lips, whether a joyful answer or otherwise. O! had he known how gladly she would have met him, he would never have slept or eaten until he had seen her he prized above all things else! 
                   
                  Lillie commenced attending school, where, in pursuance of her studies, she managed to benumb that aching of her heart. Many times a day she would glance her eyes out at the window, hoping to see him going to her father's, this being his direct route. Alas! an avalanche was now ready to precipitate itself on her devoted head, and well will it be if she escape its dreadful power. 
                  We will now leave this part of our story, and in the next chapter we will take a sly peep into the family circle of Mr. Bentley and see what Horace is about all this while. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                   
                     Clarissa Bentley is married-Her plot to ruin the happiness of Lillie by making her think her lover false. 
                   
                  ALL was bustle and preparation at the house of Mr. Bentley, making ready for the approaching nuptials so soon to take place between Miss Clarissa and George Rydon. 
                  Although the unladylike course Clarissa had pursued relative to his favorite Lillie had so offended Mr. Bentley (for, by the way, Lillie had been a favorite with all of the Bentleys excepting Clarissa) that he had sternly forbidden her marriage under his roof, still he had not forbidden the union. Miss Clarissa must therefore content herself to make ready at home; then a few select friends, go on a ride, have the gordian knot tied, and return home. Not a very pleasant state of things truly, but her father was one of those men who, when they say a thing, they mean what they say, or as our good father Abraham says, "he put his foot firmly down." 
                   
                  But Clarissa resolved within herself that she would "be revenged." She would, if it lay in her power, thwart the union between Horace and Lillie, her father's "pet," as she styled her. 
                  "He shall never marry her," she murmured to herself, taking a seat by her brother Theodore, and in a winning, complacent manner said, "Theodore, let us have a little innocent fun, by way of variety, to cheer the dull winter hours. I think it is very dull-nothing spicy and enlivening." 
                  "Very well, what can we hatch up for a little variety, sister Clarissa? As you will in a few days be Mrs. Rydon instead of Miss Bentley, I suppose a little innocent amusement to enliven your last hours of girlhood will be excusable," replied Theodore pleasantly. "What amusement do you allude to, sister?" 
                  "I have been thinking," replied she, striving to look innocent, but with a heart filled with deadly hate, "that, as you are going up to brother Isaac's soon after our marriage, on business for father, that you might just set a little bit of fun going,-and to set Lillie a-stewing," she incautiously added. 
                   
                  The last remark, although in a low tone, aroused Theodore's ideas a little. But he urged: 
                  "Do tell what the drift of your 'fun' is to be. If it is anything which will cause Lillie anxiety, I shall not be a tool in your hands; but any innocent fun, for the sake of variety, I am not averse to," replied Theodore, calmly. 
                  "O, just tell Isaac's folks that Horace and I were both married at one time, he to Miss Truman, and I and George," she answered carelessly. 
                  Theodore, ever ready for any innocent pleasantry, though the last one to be used as a tool for any thing of an ungentlemanly nature, or any thing to have caused uneasiness to either Horace or Lillie, promised to carry out the summons, thinking to himself that after he had told his brother's family, thus carrying out that part of the programme, and furnishing something new for idle gossipers (of which every community has a share) to gossip over, that he would see Lillie himself and undeceive her ere the report could reach her. Theodore, what would Mrs. Opie say of the course you are about to pursue? Little did the noble-souled Theodore realize how great the effects that would follow the carrying out of the instigations of that evil disposed girl! 
                  That matter decided, the two sat down to play euchre, where they were soon joined by Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton, and the evening passed away very pleasantly. But Clarissa felt too much overjoyed at the coming prospect of annoying the object of her hate to be much taken up with her cards, although euchre was always a favorite pastime with her. 
                  "Why, what ails you, Clarissa? how absent-minded you are. One would think you never saw a game of euchre played!" 
                  A loud laugh from the gentlemen of the party followed this outburst, and they then continued their pastime till nearly twelve o'clock, when they all retired to the embrace of Morpheus. 
                   
                  It was a beautiful day, the day of the wedding between George Rydon and Clarissa. The company were all in high glee,-for people will be merry at a wedding party let the future of the bride and groom loom up ever so ominously. The company were now about to step into their carriages, when Mrs. Hamilton motioned her brother Horace aside, saying she desired a few moments' conversation with him alone. 
                  He stood with a young lady, one Miss Truman, on his arm when his sister thus addressed him, and apologizing courteously to her for absenting himself, he soon stood listening attentively to what Mrs. Hamilton was desirous of saying to him. 
                  "Why is it, dear Horace, that Lillie is not an invited guest? I do earnestly hope that there has not been a 'lover's quarrel,' brother; Lillie is a sweet, lovely girl, and I thought surely she would have been one of our party to-day," said Mrs. Hamilton, while her countenance betrayed deep anxiety. 
                  "I will tell you frankly, sister. You know I do not enjoy any pleasure without her, but you are also aware how suddenly her parents sent for her home, giving me no opportunity to make arrangements with her relative to this wedding party, although I had never harbored a thought previous to her going home but she would be one of us to-day; but after taking so long a ride over these rough roads, her health being frail of late, I, after mature deliberation, thought I would not go for her, as the long ride so soon again must be too fatiguing for her; and I value her restoration to health far more than I do the gratification it would afford me, or even us, in having her accompany us." 
                  "There is much good sense in your remarks, Horace," replied Mrs. Hamilton; "still, I can hardly reconcile myself that Lillie is not one of our party, for she is one of those sweet flowers that sheds the fragrance of love wherever she goes; and I do hope that you may be enabled to wear that flower near your heart while you live, brother. But somehow of late, a sort of fearful foreboding will cloud my mind at times that the prize you so much and so deservedly value will never be yours." 
                  Horace turned pale at the bare thought of a possibility of losing his coveted treasure, and his sister continued: 
                  "Pardon my mentioning this to you, perhaps it is only one of my 'whims,' as Clarissa is pleased to style them; but the thought will intrude now and then, in spite of myself, that a tempest, dark and lowering, hangs over your and Lillie's heads. You know I am not a modern spiritualist, Horace, still, I often think I have a sort of 'warning' when trouble is near. I can not account for it, but sometimes I have thought that some individuals only were led in that way." 
                  "You are aware, sister," said Horace, smiling half incredulously, "that I am no believer in either spiritualism, ghosts, or 'warnings,' and I am still less willing to believe anything but death can tear from me the idol of my heart; for sister, I do, I fear, nearly idolize that dear girl, so different from other young ladies of my acquaintance." 
                  "But there is another reason still, and a prominent one, too, why I did not go for Lillie," and a look of sternness-nearly anger, shadowed those fine features as he spoke. "You are fully aware that Clarissa hates Lillie. And she carries her antipathy so far that I even feared the joys of her wedding-day would not prevent her from treating her coolly, and perhaps even rudely; and that, you know, I would not stand-see Lillie insulted in my presence, (this was said with much emphasis,) a scene would ensue, and the pleasure of all be marred. Therefore I thought, on the whole, it would be the wisest plan, taking all things into consideration, not to invite her to-day, knowing that Lillie has faith enough in me to accept and believe me when I explain to her my reasons for this seeming slight." 
                  "You are right, and quite a philosopher, too," said Mrs. Hamilton smiling. "Let us return, they will be out of all sort of patience with us," and the two returned to the impatient company, who felt, and with just cause, that they were very "unmindful of the rules of etiquette in thus detaining them." 
                  However, after apologizing humbly for their rudeness, the joy of the party was again restored, and the carriages were soon rolling rapidly towards St. Paul's Church, in Mansfield, where the minister was already in waiting; and that so often performed ceremony,-uniting in one the destinies of two young beings for life! Words of great import! How very many go to the altar with hearts as light as though they were engaged in some childish play! Ah! how little they know what lies in the future-and I have often thought how little some of those who thus offer themselves care! But to a sensible mind, how great! how important! how solemn! such a step. 
                  Could even Miss Clarissa, with all her frivolity and light-mindedness, have lifted the veil which hides from us the future, and she could have read in the pages of futurity the billows of sorrow she would have to wade through, she must have shrunk back with affright,-and the marriage ceremony remained unsaid. 
                   
                  All is over: She is now Mrs. Rydon. And as we shall have occasion to mention George Rydon in our narrative, we will briefly say that he was a young man of no force of character, although "good training" might have brought out hidden virtues, for aught we know,-but he had been reared by unprincipled parents and consequently had grown up rather unprincipled-and one in no way calculated to make happy the life of her he had promised to "love and protect." He had formerly been associated with a company of showmen, but to please Clarissa, he had promised to go with them no longer, but to hire a hotel, and in this less objectionable pursuit seek a maintenance for himself and his new wife. Our story will develop how he maintained her, and how he fulfilled those solemn vows. 
                  And now, with the reader's permission, we will leave the Bentleys awhile, and see if we can ascertain what has become of Lillie, who, when we last saw her, was at her father's, whither she had gone on leaving Bentley's. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                   
                     Our heroine hears that her lover is married-Her agony and sorrow. 
                   
                  "LILLIE, Horace is married!" These few but emphatic, and to her, terrible words, were spoken in an earnest, solemn manner by Mr. Ray one day, on his return from an elder sister's, where he had been on business. This transpired not long after Lillie's return home, and just previous to her commencing attending school, which we mentioned at the close of a former chapter. 
                  She made no reply, but with a face white and ashen, she instantaneously dropped into a chair, where she sat like a statue of marble, and her heart nearly ceased its pulsations. 
                  There had been a rumor to that effect circulating among the gossipers in the vicinity,-first started by (the reader already knows who,) she who is now Mrs. Rydon, and may heaven forgive her for the wrong she did that innocent girl by that plotting of hers!-but Lillie had paid no attention to it, viewing it only as she would any other dish of gossip, fit food for tea-table scandal to those who approved of such scandal, and thinking so lightly of it it had become nearly banished from her mind, until the time referred to at the commencement of this chapter. Terrible revelation! She could not-would not believe it! 
                  Her father continued: "Frederic brought the word. Or at least, if he did not bring the news of his marriage, when your sister Martha interrogated him about the report which was going the rounds, he confirmed it. And he said Horace was married on the same day with Clarissa; but he was very sorry, for he did not like Miss Truman half as well as he did Lillie Ray." 
                  "Ah! then it must be so!" mused the sorrowful girl; "Frederic would not have said so unless it were true. It must be so! He is gone!" and she sat there like a statue of marble. Another circumstance seemed to confirm the report: Lillie was told previous to her leaving Mr. Bentley's, that Clarissa would be married in "four weeks." Then why did not Horace come for her to be one of the bridal party? "Ah! he must have done it from some sudden impulse of the moment," pondered Lillie. "It was those heartless, thoughtless words I said to him the morning of my departure that drove him desperate; but it was then too late to explain or apologize." Too late! how many have said, too late!
                   
                  Mr. Ray, seeing her intensity of feeling, strove to pour into her mind words of sympathy and consolation, and to impress her mind with that lovely truth, that "All things work together for good to those who love God." But, oh! how extremely difficult it was for Miss Lillie to apply to herself this heavenly balm! notwithstanding she had often quoted those sweet words to others whose hearts she had been striving to bind up. 
                  She sat there silent, in agony of soul! Oh! there are but very few who can love as Lillie did! I say few-yes, very few. Her's was no ordinary affection. It was lasting as life. A coarse nature may take a fancy, or even love, so far as such a mind is capable of loving, and if betrayed, or some obstacle presents itself to separate rate them from the object of their attachment, they have a few sober looks or moments, and all is over; the next handsome young man or lovely maiden they come across, and they are just as much in love as before. Very true, for they never knew, and never can know, what it is to love with all the fine feelings of our nature-all the soul. But a sensitive, fine-moulded creature, who dwells much in the inner life, as our heroine did, has the power to love-to feel-to suffer! and if disappointment comes, the ruin is complete; the light of life is gone, and she must grope through the thick gloom of the future without one cheering ray of light and love to bless and gladden her. How true are the words of a late author: 
                         
                           "I love, but I believe in love no more: 
                           I feel desire, but hope not. Oh! from sleep 
                           Most vainly must my weary brain implore 
                           Its long lost flattery, now: I wake to weep, 
                           And sit, the long day, gnawing at the core 
                           Of my bitter heart-" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "I love, but I believe in love no more." Lillie still loved-but, was there any trust in man? Yes, she could not doubt his sincerity; the blame lay at her own door: those thoughtless words! Dear, trusting heart! how joyfully would she have knelt at his feet and begged forgiveness! But it was too late.
                   
                  The first shock over, she was calm and serene; but in spite of her efforts to the contrary, a sort of chastened, subdued pensiveness would at times o'ershadow that fair young brow, seeming like a dark cloud striving to enshroud the peaceful sky of a summer's eve in its dark folds. 
                  Her friends and young associates tried every method they could devise to cheer and amuse her and bring back the roses to her cheeks, and with some success, but her greatest anchor was trust in God. She thought perhaps she had "loved the creature more than her Creator;" and she remembered reading in that best of books, "whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth," and she tried to feel that her Father was at the helm. 
                  Lillie was like a frail flower which had been rudely, very rudely shaken, but not destroyed. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                   
                     Goes to school-Meets Mr. Leslie-Accepts an offer of marriage. 
                   
                  WINTER has arrived: the fields have exchanged their velvety drapery for one of pure white; the merry jingle of sleigh-bells salutes the ear; the merry voice of childhood makes the play-ground echo with the gladsome shout and joyous laugh; and all nature seems rejoicing. The heroine of our tale sits writing an essay, or perhaps solving some difficult and abstruse problem-pursuing her studies under the guidance of an able tutor, in the same school-house where but two summers previous she had been in the position of preceptress. 
                  School is closing for the night, when a young man, a gentleman of her acquaintance, enters the school-room and asks to see Miss Lillie Ray. The privilege granted, Lillie stepped aside with the young man, who informed her that he came by request of his mother, who desired her presence without delay. Lillie repaired to Mrs. Holloway's, attended by Miss Green, a class-mate. 
                  Mrs. Holloway introduced the young ladies to a middle aged gentleman, who was in appearance about thirty-five years, and who, Mrs. Holloway informed Lillie privately, was a widower in good circumstances, an old friend of theirs; and as he had three little children left motherless, he was desirous of finding some suitable person to be a second mother to them. She had sent for Lillie, she said, for the express purpose of her forming his acquaintance; and she hoped, she added, that their acquaintance might prove a pleasant one, and-result in a union between them. 
                  His name was Leslie: an agreeable and an intelligent man, but a widower. Lillie laughed heartily. "The very thoughts of a widower! The idea was preposterous!" They returned to the room where Miss Green and the two gentlemen were sitting, chatting sociably, and the evening passed away quite pleasantly. 
                  The next morning, as our heroine was left alone for a moment in the parlor, the rest of the company and of Mr. Holloway's family being engaged-was she left alone on purpose? that is not for us to answer, but it certainly looked like it; at all events she was alone-Mr. Leslie entered the room, and seating himself by her side, begged the privilege of paying her his addresses. Now if Lillie had been told that she would yet bear the name of Leslie, she would have thought it a thing impossible. But as he seemed intelligent, she thought any agreeable company would serve to attract her mind in a measure from its sorrow, and help her to pass those hours in which she was accustomed to think only of Horace. 
                  Ah! her good angel surely did not pass that way, else she would not have stepped one step towards the precipice of ruin. She consented to receive his addresses. In two weeks he would see her again; and he departed from the vicinity for his own home, a distance of thirty-five miles. There soon became sufficient food for gossipers, for at the time specified, Mr. Leslie made his appearance. 
                  And now Lillie began to think "old widowers" were not quite such "terrible creatures," after all, as her imagination had always pictured to her mind. Indeed, she began to think the presence of Mr. Leslie rather agreeable than otherwise, helping to while away her sorrowful hours; for when alone, that one subject,-her lost one, engrossed and monopolized every thought. 
                  Blame her not. She had had many offers, but had never loved but once, and that one was irrecoverably gone, so she thought, at least. Then duty to society, at least, called loudly upon her to try to rouse, and if possible, avoid sinking into a state of hopeless despondency. Mr. Leslie attended her to her father's, and there his agreeable manners and gentlemanly deportment won upon Lillie's friends insomuch that they did not deem it advisable to discourage their correspondence. He, of course, pressed his suit with zeal, and as he spoke of his three motherless ones, left without a fond mother's care, Lillie's sympathies became excited, and she half consented to become his. 
                  "I shall never love him," mused she; "Horace has proved false, but I can never love another. I can treat him kindly, can be a guardian over those helpless little ones, and be a true, faithful if not a loving, wife, and thus live a useful life, if not a happy one." 
                  Where was Lillie's good angel then? How little did she realize that she was about to sacrifice her happiness and usefulness; in a word, sacrifice herself. She had long since relinquished all thoughts of becoming a foreign missionary; but could she not be a "home missionary?" 
                  Mr. Leslie urged a speedy union, as his home was at so great a distance from Mr. Ray's; and besides, what would people say if she maintained a lengthy correspondence with one who had once led to the altar another as fair and as good as Lillie? O! this "what will people say?" Many times too much stress laid upon the opinion of others is cause of harm,-although I would by no means advocate a disregard for public opinion; by no means. But if it is right to marry one who has honorably led another fair one to the hymeneal altar, why is it not right also to keep up a sufficiently lengthy intercourse to ascertain if we can consistently trust our all to the future keeping of the one who seeks to woo and win? 
                  But we digress. Four short weeks was the time agreed upon to celebrate their nuptials. There was happily one condition,-either party had the privilege any time previous to the time specified, of writing to the other a refusal, and they would be free, and all correspondence cease between them. 
                  In a few days Lillie left school, and bidding adieu to her schoolmates and studies, went home to prepare for the nuptials. But at every step the image of him she loved was before her, rebuking her for the part she was about to act, and she at last felt that she could proceed no further. "He is gone," she mused; "but still I cannot give my hand where my heart can never go." And then such a yearning of soul! Oh! such a longing to be with that one, the beloved of her soul!-but no, she must not think, even think, of him; he was now another's, and it would be sin for her to cast one thought that way. But at all events, if they must walk apart, she could, and would avoid being led to the altar by one she did not love. 
                  Her parents, seeing her hesitation in making ready for the wedding, easily divined the cause, and again sought to console and advise her. Lillie's lie's natural timidity and reserve gave way, and she, with a throbbing heart and moistened eyes, acknowledged to them the truth; that although Horace had proved false, and was married to another, he still possessed her heart; "and," said she with much emphasis, "I can never love another." 
                  Mr. Ray told her that perhaps after all the report of his marriage was false; "at all events, I would write immediately to Mr. Leslie and inform him that I could not marry him, giving him the true reasons for my decision; and then," continued Mr. Ray, "I would pen another letter to Horace, and ascertain the truth or falsity of the report. I did think the report of his marriage must be true," added Mr. Ray, "but of late I have had suspicions of foul play somewhere; for I did not believe Horace a man who would trifle with a person's affections in that way. Indeed, the more I think on the subject, I more than half believe that he is still free, Lillie." 
                  Lillie was quite anxious to pen the refusal to Mr. Leslie, but her false sense of maidenly propriety shrank at the last mentioned letter,-the one to Horace-"for he must not know how well I love him," thought she. "And surely it must be so; for Theodore first mentioned it, and then when interrogated as to its truth, confirmed the first account; and Theodore will not tell a falsehood." 
                  But Mr. Ray was far better skilled in human nature than his trusting daughter, and he still maintained that he had doubts on the subject. "It is possible, yes, almost probable, that it is not true," said he to his weeping daughter. 
                  After mature deliberation, Lillie consented to pen the two letters. The one to Mr. Leslie contained a prompt refusal of his hand; the one to Horace, desiring to know the truth, and if still free, desiring an interview. She carefully guarded every expression to Horace lest some little word might injure the feelings of his bride, if he were truly married. Lillie was not one to indulge in revenge, even towards a rival. She was too well guarded by principles of virtue to admit of that; and if he were married she wished him no ill will. 
                  The quiet of her soul was again restored; she was again at rest. Living several miles from a post-office, she had sent the letter to a brother residing in Marlboro to mail, which he promised to do without delay. And notwithstanding the one written to Horace still remained safely in her trunk, while she pondered over the propriety of sending it. "But surely," thought she, "I am sure the letter will reach Mr. Leslie in time; and I am free!" Would to heaven she had mailed the other one too, then she would have been saved! 
                  But to our story. One evening, as the last rays of twilight were fading away, and night's sable curtain enveloped the earth in her dark folds, that brother to whom she had entrusted her letter to be mailed, drove up, and after a hasty enquiry after the welfare of the family, he turned to the lounge where Lillie was sitting, and reached to her the very letter which she supposed had already reached its destination, and performed its mission in extricating her from that repulsive engagement. Truly "the path of true love never runs smooth." 
                  In alarm, Lillie enquired the cause of the letter not having been mailed according to promise. Her brother replied that some gentlemen engaged in the mercantile business had been stopping at a hotel in Marlboro, and on ascertaining that they came from the vicinity where Mr. Leslie resided, he had made inquiries respecting Mr. Leslie's position, both socially and morally. Their answers were, "that they had lived near him for many years; and he was a gentleman of an untarnished reputation, bearing a good moral, and also a Christian character." "And," said he, "thinking your hesitancy arose from the fact of so short an acquaintance, I thought if you knew what a prize he was you would not wish it mailed," smiling as he finished his remarks. 
                  Seeing Lillie look so sorrowful and sad, John (for that was his name) continued: "Indeed, sis, I meant you no harm; but I thought if you were satisfied as to his character, every obstacle would be removed." And he spoke truly when he said he meant her no harm; for, like a good elder brother, he had his sister's welfare at heart. But he had not the remotest suspicion of the true cause of Lillie's repugnance to the marriage. 
                  Poor girl! again clouds lower, and tempests dark and terrible seem approaching. Our heroine sat in silence until her brother left, then she threw herself down on the lounge, and gave free vent to her emotion. She wept until nature sought repose in sleep. 
                  The next morning, her dear parents again sought to console her distracted spirit. They told her that it was not even now too late; that if another letter were immediately penned and mailed to him, it would now reach him in time to prevent his coming. Lillie feared there might be a delay by mail, as is so often the case; but there was no alternative, for as the wedding day rapidly approached, stronger and stronger grew her repugnance to the union. She felt that she could never marry a man she did not love, she did not "care if he was made of gold." O! how different such a state of mind to one where the parties look forward anxiously, lovingly, and long for the hour to roll around which shall place within their reach that prize, a true heart, which they are so anxious to know is all their own! Well may we say, how different! 
                  In vain did Lillie try to think she could respect him: in vain did the image of those three little bereaved ones rise up before her. Her heart refused to yield: she loved another. Another note, fully explaining all, was immediately penned, and forwarded without delay-a firm refusal. 
                  Again the clouds which had begun to hover over that devoted head were swept away. The star of hope again shone around her pathway, emitting a peaceful halo, and she was happy. She felt that she had just awakened from an awful dream, or escaped from some imminent danger, and a deep sense of thankfulness pervaded her mind as she thought of her deliverance, and how very near she came plunging herself into a maze of sorrow from which she could never again have hoped to extricate herself. How happy the thought-she was free! She of course ceased making preparations for the wedding, nor did she allow herself to think much on the subject. 
                  The day rolled around, and O, how she wished it had passed! She wished for the curtain of night to close around, that she might know she was free from all obligations relative to the affair. But why this anxiety? Surely he has received the message, and will presume no further; for even now the sun is fast sinking behind the treetops. "Night is here, and I am free! joy! joy!" She drops her work, puts on her bonnet, and tripping lightly across the road-for now her heart was light-enters a neat little cottage where her brother Charles and his sweet Canadian bride lived, enjoying to its full extent the blissful honeymoon. 
                  "Take a seat, dear Lillie," and a sweet kiss on the cheek, was her greeting from "dear Charlie's birdie," as Lillie now and then styled Charles's wife. But just as she began to untie her bonnet-strings, the words, "Here comes Mr. Leslie," sounded like a death-knell on her ear, and turning towards the window, she saw him entering her father's door. "He did not receive my letter," gasped she. "What shall I do? I cannot go back with him. O! what can I do?" 
                  Mrs. Ray soon came in, bringing Lillie a change of dress, and told her that if she did not wish to return with Mr. Leslie, she would do well not to see him; offering to take upon herself the unpleasant task of breaking to him the fact of her refusal. But Lillie thought, and truly, too, that if she refused to meet him it would savor of deception and treachery. She said firmly, "I will see him and explain all." She thought herself nerved to the task; but her brain was reeling with conflicting emotions. She went back with her mother, where she met and welcomed Mr. Leslie with as good a grace as she could, with a brain distracted by a tempest of warring elements. 
                  Supper was served, after which Lillie inquired if he did not receive her message. "Certainly not. Had I received such a message, I should not be here now," replied Mr. Leslie, with a shade of chagrin in his voice and manner. Can we blame him? Who would have been otherwise than chagrined if placed in such a position? He could be no otherwise than disappointed and chagrined, as he had given his friends to understand that when he returned "it would not be alone." Still he manifested so gentlemanlike a spirit under the trying ordeal, that Lillie was much prepossessed in his favor. He urged his suit, but she was firm. At last the hour for retirement came, and all retired to the sweet embrace of Morpheus. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                   
                     Lillie marries Mr. Leslie-A sad wedding. 
                   
                  THE next morning an unusual quietness seemed to pervade the domestic circle at the cottage,-all feeling that an unpleasant state of things existed, which could not easily be arranged satisfactorily to both parties. 
                  Breakfast was served, of which they partook but sparingly; after which Mr. Leslie prepared to depart, not accompanied by a young and lovely bride, as he had anticipated, but alone,-to meet the taunts and jokes of friends on his return: surely he was not to be envied. Still no blame could be attached to any person. He was harnessing his horse, when the silence was broken by Martha, a sister of Lillie. "I think you will regret your decision." Perhaps she was thinking to herself that were she the one he was wooing, she would not reject such an offer; at least Lillie thought so, for Martha, although a good girl, had never had an offer of marriage. 
                  Lillie had sat realizing to its full extent the position her refusal placed him in, taking it all in at a glance, as a comprehensive mind will, until her mind was bordering on distraction, when thus addressed by Martha. She hesitated a moment, and then, with an unnatural energy, said, "I will go back with him," and quickly commenced making her toilette, Martha assisting in every manner possible. O! fatal decision! 
                  When Mr. Leslie entered the house preparatory to taking leave of the family, Mrs. Ray made to him the strange announcement that Lillie was preparing to return with him. The steed was remanded to the stable. A full and free conversation ensued between parents, suitor, and child, and it was decided that six o'clock that evening they should be married. If he, Mr. Leslie, would be content with as much of her heart as she had left to bestow, she could be a faithful, true wife, if not a loving one, and she would go and be a mother to those bereaved ones. 
                   
                  A few short hours and the bride and bridegroom were on their way to the lovely village of Marlboro, where they were to be joined by some of Lillie's sisters and their partners, one of whom had been a suitor of Lillie. Charlie felt that his Lillie would not be happy, and could he witness her sign away her freedom and happiness? He was not at the wedding. 
                  They stopped at the splendid American Hotel, and after partaking of an oyster supper, they were united by the most holy ties of matrimony. Did Lillie promise to "love and obey?" No. The clergyman who officiated was an old friend and acquaintance of the family, and knowing Lillie's timidity, cut the ceremony short by merely pronouncing them "husband and wife." Rather strange for a bridal ceremony! But the minister, when spoken to about the matter afterwards, said, "I knew Lillie to be so timid I was not going to keep her standing up there a long time for people to gaze at." And he told a friend in confidence also, that he had a struggle in his own mind after arriving at the place, whether it were his duty to perform the ceremony; "for," said he, "she does not love him." He could not bear to see her sacrifice herself. But of course knowing what a scene it would have caused had he refused to officiate after all the company were assembled, he wisely did his duty as promptly as possible. After which he presented the bride with a marriage certificate, accompanied with the words, "here is a deed of your husband, madam." Then leading up his lady to "salute the bride," they were followed by others, and all was hilarity and gaiety. 
                  But how strangely contrasted the gaiety of the guests with the deathly sadness with which Lillie, now Mrs. Leslie, moved around! She was acting a part in which her hand must, but her heart could not, participate. She felt, and deeply felt, the responsibilities of the position she was about to assume-and it was not for a week, or for a month, but for life! In vain did her friends one after another strive to excite a smile on her pensive face by some innocent pleasantry. She felt that she was a "being of circumstance," acting a part in the great drama of life, and drawn as it were irresistibly by surrounding circumstances towards a vortex of sorrow,-and her heart was far, far away! A dark and cheerless future rose before her, enshrouding her soul in a mournful pall, without one ray of light or hope to illume the scene. How could she smile? 
                  This is no fiction. Every word of what I now write is true. The writer was an eye-witness of the ceremony. You are not reading an imaginary tale. But it is too mournful; let us draw the curtain, and proceed. At a late hour, the company again partook of refreshments, and dispersed to their homes. The bride and bridegroom staid at her father's, where Lillie spent the last night she must ever spend under the paternal roof. We will hasten over the farewells, the counsels from parents, the wedding breakfast, etc., and briefly say, the following day she, who we will in future call Mrs. Leslie, bade adieu to the paternal roof, around which so many fond recollections clustered, forever! Yes, those dear parents; those loved brothers, and affectionate sisters; those beautiful meadows and fields, around which she had so often roamed arm in arm with the idol of her heart; and that dear old school-house, too, where she had been both pupil and teacher; to all she bade a long, tearful adieu, and went with the stranger, to enter upon new scenes and form new associations. 
                  She had taken a step which could never be recalled: and the thought pressed down upon her heart like an avalanche of ice. One circumstance, we will notice, gave Mrs. Leslie much pain, far greater than bidding farewell to friends. It was this: Mr. Leslie's residence was only a few miles from where she knew Horace to be engaged in business, and although the report of his marriage had never been refuted, yet, whether that was true or false, now prudence forbade the slightest intercourse; not even one farewell word should she meet him by accident, as she would be very apt to do living so short a distance from each other. Sometimes she thought if she could only bid him "good bye" and seek an explanation of him-in a word, have one last interview, she could then give him up; but she knew her own weakness too well, she dare not trust herself. 
                  But as the time was mostly engrossed with entertaining company from the circle of Mr. Leslie's friends, together with the novelty of a new home, where she was in future to preside as mistress, she found but little time for useless regrets. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                   
                     Our heroine learns too late of her lover's fidelity-The report of his marriage false. 
                   
                  DING! ding! ding! "More company, mam," spake Bridget, the one domestic, which was all that the young housewife considered necessary for her assistance. For Mrs. Leslie had no idea of sitting with folded hands herself and eat the bread of idleness, even if she were not compelled to labor now, for she considered a proper amount of labor essential to health of both body and mind. 
                  The young bride sat busily sewing, humming to herself a bit of a favorite song, "Do they miss me at home," when she was aroused from her reverie by the words of her domestic; and on looking up and glancing her eyes towards the window, she saw driving up a sleigh filled with not unfamiliar faces. A sister of Horace Bentley, her husband, and a daughter, a young lady of seventeen summers. The reader will recognize in this sister one who has figured to some extent in this narrative-Mrs. Hamilton. 
                  Mrs. Leslie greeted them cordially, but with a bursting heart, as past scenes and incidents crowded her mind in vivid array. O! how dear to her heart was anything which reminded her of Horace-and still how painful! 
                  She endeavored to act the part of a hostess as well as she could, but it was no easy task. O! if she could fly with them-but, stop! Such thoughts now were sin. 
                  Mrs. Hamilton at last, after sitting uneasily a long time, ventured to tell Mrs. Leslie that a vague and uncertain rumor had reached them that she was married; but Horace, unwilling to believe her false, had prepared to visit her immediately on hearing of her arrival in the vicinity, but was restrained by more judicious friends, who told him, "it may be true." And now they had come to ascertain the truth, for Horace would "not rest a moment" till they returned. 
                  None but a heart that has suffered can appreciate Lillie's feelings as she listened spell-bound to this recital. The rumor of his marriage was then a falsehood! 
                  Theodore had, it seems, so far gratified Clarissa as to start the rumor, "just for a bit of fun," but did not mean Lillie to hear it, and had gone to find her at her sister's, where he knew she had been staying a day or two; but, as fate would have it, she had gone home-had only been gone a "couple of hours," her sister said. He therefore returned to his father's again, little dreaming that his "love of fun" would cause long years of sorrow to those two loving hearts. 
                  Mrs. Leslie cut from her head a tress of hair-that hair he had praised so often-and handing it to Mrs. Hamilton, said: "Tell him, good bye! I must not see him: I am another man's wife!" 
                   
                  But, oh! the untold agony that rent her very soul, no pen can describe! "Agony" is a strong word, but our heroine suffered mentally all that that word can comprehend. To a person not possessed of a sensitive, intellectual, and refined nature, this no doubt will sound like folly. All are not constituted so they can feel, and suffer, to that extent. I have sometimes thought it would be a blessing to be thus constituted; but no, I would prefer to have a capacity to suffer, to being a Stoic. 
                  "He is true, and I am bound by these hateful vows. O! let me die!" thought she. "Through a future life, let that life be longer or shorter, I must receive the caresses of another; must bestow all the love I have left upon another; but not one kiss from him, when he longs to clasp me to his heart! O! let my sufferings end!" 
                  Yes, those two who loved so truly, must walk apart, and duty, stern duty, now lay before our heroine, to be a true, faithful wife. Miss Muloch says she thinks not more than "one marriage in a thousand is made in heaven." If that be so, we think surely the one between Mr. and Mrs. Leslie was not of the number. 
                  It would be some relief, she thought, if she could have remained in ignorance of his faithfulness; but to find he was longing to clasp her to his heart! The pride which had sustained her in a measure while she thought him false was all gone-and she was bound, bound for life! Oh! agony! "If I could but once speak to him, and be assured of his forgiveness for my doubting him, I would then be willing to die!" thought the poor, frantic girl. 
                  Towards evening the company left for home, there again to cause sorrow to another loving heart. 
                   
                  Months fled, and rumors reached Mrs. Leslie that Horace was standing on the walls of Zion calling sinners to repentance. But what mattered it to Lillie now? She had allowed herself to be drawn into a path which she must in future tread. The vows were spoken, the die cast, beyond hope of redemption; and while the future unrolled itself before her like a dark, howling tempest, through all which not one ray of joy or love would ever shine, and through the dark shadow of which she must grope her way, with nothing but stern duty to sustain her, Mrs. Leslie lie felt in that morbid state of mind that life must soon end! her heart must break! But she resolved to try to trust in God; and if she could not be a loving wife, she could, and she would, be a faithful one. Yes, and she would try to be as cheerful as possible, too, so as to make home as pleasant as might be for her husband and those little ones; else they would think they had got a "nun" for a mother, and he a "nun" for a wife. Well was it she thus mused, for many years of deeper sorrow still lay before her. 
                  Her heart sometimes craved sympathy, for Mr. Leslie was not a demonstrative man; but he gave her all the sympathy he had, and was no doubt proud of his wife. She also became quite fond of her step-children, especially the youngest, a sweet creature of only five summers. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                   
                     Clarissa Rydon's malice-Horace in sorrow-Has brain fever-Recovery. 
                   
                  "WHERE now, brother Horace? Some other pretty girl in tow, I 
                        supose
                        suppose
                     , now Lillie is married," said Mrs. Rydon (she was formerly Clarissa Bentley) to her brother Horace, one Sabbath morning, as she entered the family sitting-room, where he was uneasily pacing the floor; arrayed in his best, and hat and gloves in hand, he seemed to be lost in thought and undecided whether to go out or not-was, as I before remarked, pacing the floor uneasily, his countenance betraying an inward, mental struggle which was rending his heart. 
                  Horace started as though bitten by a reptile at the words, "Lillie is married," and staggered back into the nearest seat, gasping, "Who said so? How did you hear it?" 
                  "Why, dear brother, how pale you look! as if it was something terrible, even if true. I should think you would be glad of it-glad to get rid of such a dowdyish, tiresome-" 
                  No knowing what more the heartless girl would have said had not Horace rallied himself, and with a commanding, resolute air, nearly amounting to sternness, said with emphasis, "Stop! I won't hear another lisp against her! She is not dowdyish, not false either. I wish Clarissa was half as good as the one she tries so hard to injure. I repeat, who said Lillie was married?" 
                  "It is currently reported that she married a widower, one Mr. Leslie, with half a dozen little B-" Here she wisely checked the vile taunts which arose to her lips, and modifying her voice somewhat-for the sight of his pale features alarmed her, as she really did love her brother, vain as she was and much as she hated the unassuming Lillie-and continued, "I always thought her a coquette, Horace; and while she was professedly a particular friend of yours, at the same time she was corresponding with a half dozen other young men; and to wind up the affair, has married a man old enough to be her father. But I would not care, brother, there are lots of other girls; Rose Darley, for instance, a real jovial, good girl. I don't believe she is engaged, either." 
                  "She is not a coquette, I tell you, Clarissa, and don't let me hear you speak another word against Lillie, not in my presence anyhow," added he, desperately. 
                  Mrs. Rydon left the room, muttering to herself, "I hope the report is true, and I shall never have her for a sister. I don't like her anyway, nor did I ever." Thus soliloquizing, she entered Mrs. Hamilton's room. Great was the contrast in those two sisters, Mrs. Hamilton being a lady in every sense of the word. 
                  "Don't you think Horace is such a greeny that he is half crazy for fear that hateful Lillie is married; and I do hope she is, and then she will not be my sister anyhow. O! how I have hated that girl!" 
                  Mrs. Hamilton made no reply to this unlady-like outburst, but quietly arose, saying, "Where is Horace?" 
                  "O, he is in the sitting-room, moping for his lost Lillie, or violet, or some other fine flower," replied Mrs. Rydon, accompanying her remarks with a sneering, rude laugh. 
                  "Clarissa!" said Mrs. Hamilton in a tone of deep rebuke. She then made her way to the room where her brother was said to be sitting, feeling deeply for him, and inwardly apprehensive that the rumor was true, although she hoped it was not, for as I have before remarked, all of Mr. Bentley's family, except Clarissa, loved Lillie Ray. 
                  She found him in the act of drawing on his gloves preparatory to going out, but with a face ashen and sad. 
                  "Sister Hamilton, do you believe it?" broke out Horace, as he caught sight of his sister; and that subject being predominant in his mind, he did not pause to think whether his sister knew what he referred to. 
                  "Lillie's marriage?" said she enquiringly. 
                  "Yes." 
                  He then took a seat by the side of that lady-like sister, and poured out his whole soul to her as to a bosom friend, and sought her advice how to proceed. He well knew she was fully competent tent to render counsel; and he felt that he needed not only counsel but comfort. He had had intimation of the marriage from young associates previous to Clarissa's unlady-like remarks, but he did not, could not believe Lillie false! Still it troubled him-how much better can we bear a sad certainty than anxious suspense-and he was consequently setting out on a visit to the house of Mr. Leslie, where he thought she might be visiting Ella Leslie, a young miss of fourteen. 
                  Should he go and find her the bride of another, that would surely be an unenviable position! 
                  "If she is married," ejaculated he in agony at the very thought of such a possibility, "there is treachery somewhere. She is not a coquette anyway; she is true as steel. There may have been foul play some way, if Clarissa could do any thing; but what plot could she hatch up to bring about such a result?" said he, as a ray of light seemed to dawn on his mind, when he thought of her hatred of, and abuse to Lillie. 
                  After a long and mature deliberation, it was decided by brother and sister that Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton should, on some pretence of business, go to Mr. Leslie's and ascertain the truth; and then if Lillie were still unfettered, why of course Horace would lose no time in seeing her he loved better than any and all else on earth. 
                  "Thank you, dear sister, for your sympathy in this hour of trouble. You will try to get an early start, for you know I shall not rest a moment till you return." 
                  "I will do all I can for you, as promptly as possible, too," replied Mrs. Hamilton, as she was greeted with a fervent kiss by her distracted brother on that fair, beautiful brow; and she left the room to secure her husband's consent and coperation with them in the plan for the ensuing day. 
                   
                  O, how weary and long were the dark hours of night-will it never come day light? As the first rays of dawn began to appear in the east, the mental emotion of our hero had increased until it was nearly insupportable. O, this terrible suspense! Finally he throws himself down on his couch, for he had paced the room all the live-long night, and for a few brief moments a sort of wakeful ful slumber chained him to his couch; but ever and anon he would start up, and in a half frenzied manner reach forth his hands as if to grasp something which was seeking to elude him, and with a pleading wail moan: "Dear Lillie! My Lillie! O, don't leave me! You are not married, are you? There, I knew you were not." Then sink back quietly again for a few brief seconds, then spring up in the same manner as before. O, the sufferings of such a heart! There are but few, very few hearts that love as Horace and Lillie had loved. Their love was strong as life and lasting till death. No coquetting or flirting with either of them. The sufferings of such a heart are terrible to witness when they once fall beneath the power of sorrow; it is like the powerful tempest shivering the mighty oak!  
                        
                            
                              "There is a fragrant blossom that maketh glad the garden of the heart; 
                              Its root lieth deep-it is delicate, yet lasting as the lilac crocus of autumn, 
                              Loneliness and thought are the dews that water it morning and evening: 
                              Its sun is the brightness of affection; 
                              And it bloometh in the borders of hope." 
                           
                         
                        MARTIN F. TUPPER. 
                     
                   
                   
                  Finally the day began to dawn, and from his fevered couch Horace arose and tried to rally himself enough to appear sane at least. In a short time they had started, and, O, the suspense of an agonized mind! How long the hours till their return. 
                  "There, they have come." And his nerves, already strung to their utmost tension, awaited their entrance to the house tremblingly. He dared not ask the question, but he read in the saddened countenance of his sister the truth-Lillie was married. Mrs. Hamilton motioned him aside, and then tremblingly handed him a small folded paper containing a silken ringlet of hair, and in a stammering voice said, in a half whisper: "She said I must tell you good bye! She was another man's wife." He slowly unfolded that tiny paper, containing the only relic of her he must ever possess, and with an exclamation of despair, and a look of such agony, sank back in his chair. They caught him; restoratives were applied, and a physician summoned immediately, whose verdict was-brain fever. Long weeks of suffering followed, and he lay near the gates of death. But thank God, his time was not yet! 
                   
                  One fine lovely morning, Horace, so thin and white, opened his eyes, and as Mrs. Hamilton, his ever watchful nurse through his dangerous illness, drew near and held down her face to catch his whispers, said: "How long have I been ill? Is Lillie here?" and then, as a shade of painful remembrance seemed to cross his mind, he murmured, "O, no, she is lost to me; but Lillie used to tell me that all things worked together for good to those who love God." His sister gently enjoined strict quiet, and then hastened to bring him some broth, after which she imparted the favorable change in his patient to his physician, who was at the time seated in the sitting-room conversing with Mr. Bentley. Slowly Horace recovered; but a quiet, holy resignation sat on his brow, and as he gained strength, he tried to feel that all had been ordered for the best by the great dispenser of all good. Although not yet firmly established in the Christian path, still he was being schooled in the furnace of affliction, and was learning the right way. 
                  But the light of his life was gone! All seemed a dark, dreary waste, as he looked forward to the future; no sweet Lillie to cheer his pathway. O, how those two hearts did cling together! But time, that soother of the keenest anguish, after a time so modified his grief that he could perform his duties calmly, if not courageously. And now we leave him a while and follow Lillie in her meanderings. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                   
                     Mrs. Leslie's new home-Their house burned down-Willie's death-Her health fails. 
                   
                  WE will pass over the lapse of a few, three or four, fleeting years, and if the reader will accompany us, we will take a sly peep into this little neat-looking, white house, in the little inland village of Glenwood, state of ---. The residents are strangers in the vicinity, having lately emigrated from an eastern state, hoping to find a pleasant home in the far-famed western state of ---. The family consists of the husband and father, a man about forty-five years of age, his young wife, over whose head twenty-four summers had passed, and on whose pallid features sorrow could be easily traced; and five children, the eldest a young lady aged seventeen; a boy of eleven, and a girl of eight summers. Besides these there were two "wee ones," two sweet cherub-ones-one, two and a half years old, and the other, a blue-eyed prattler of eleven months; and lastly, a domestic. These composed the family circle of what the reader has already perceived to be the family of our heroine, who was striving to fulfill the duties of a step-mother, while at the same time those two pair of sweet, loving eyes, which she could proudly say "are mine," gazed lovingly up into her face, and called her "Ma." O, how often when thorns seemed to choke and hedge up her pathway, and she felt that she must sink beneath the fury of the howling tempest did the caresses of those sweet, loving ones cheer her sad spirit, and with renewed courage she would toil on. 
                  But alas! a sad hour came. Disease attacked her babe, the blue-eyed Willie, and although the best of medical skill was procured, and everything which love and affection could do was done, but alas, after lingering in agony for two weeks, the sweet one was released, and his child spirit flew to an abode of heavenly joy. He had just begun to lisp "Pa" and "Ma," and was one of those lovely flowers who seldom remain long on earth. But, though both parents felt deeply the loss of little Willie, still they tried to submit to the will of Him "who doeth all things well." But, try as much as they would, it was a hard blow. The sight of her child's sufferings threw Mrs. Leslie on a bed of illness, where she lay days, and weeks, in imminent danger. 
                  The funeral was held at Mr. Leslie's house, and as the family physician with a saddened countenance, took the little coffin in his arms and carrying it to the bedside of the sick and bereaved mother, gently raised it so she might take a last look at her lovely babe, he said soothingly, "keep perfectly composed." She thought of the sweet prattler she still had left, and for his sake she controlled all outward show of sorrow, insomuch that by-standers might well wonder at her seeming calmness. Her-whom all who knew her, knew her to be an affectionate and sensitive mother. But she knew her life depended on entire quiet. The little one was placed beneath the green mound, and there was a vacancy. O, what a void! When the fond mother arose from her bed of illness, pale and weak, no smiling cherub puts up his tiny hands, and lovingly lisps "Ma take, Ma take." But the bereaved mother pondered thus: "I have Charlie yet spared me, and those motherless ones, too, who need my care; for their sakes I will try to live." Thus she strove to bow to the chastening rod. 
                  But sorrow, "like a worm in the bud," was gnawing at her heart-strings, and Mrs. Leslie faded. Her physician advised "a change of air." It was accordingly arranged that she in company with her husband should take a short journey to the State of ---, where her husband had friends residing. Change of air and of scenery certainly proved very serviceable to the invalid, and she returned to Glenwood with much more color in her cheeks, and much improved spirits. But, alas! though the bloom of youth was gone, and years were rapidly passing away, notwithstanding she was faithful as a wife, and strove to keep close in the dark recesses of her heart the truth that her first and only love still burned as truly on the altar of her heart as in days of yore, only it was kept smothered in a measure by uncontrollable circumstances, still the stern fact was there; and though, striving to make herself believe that she had bestowed her hand, and she must of necessity give her heart also; but any person deeply skilled in the human heart could easily perceive that her physical ailments were caused by mental suffering, too deep for medicine to reach. 
                  Indeed there were times when it seemed that her heartstrings would burst, with the pent-up volcano which raged within.  
                        
                            
                              "If the love of the heart is blighted, 
                              It buddeth not again."- 
                           
                         
                        M. F.TUPPER. 
                      Prayer and a firm reliance on heaven for support sustained her. The next summer after the bereavement, another sweet cherub-boy gazed lovingly up in Mrs. Leslie's face, and Charlie was no longer alone, for he had a baby brother. 
                  The void in the domestic circle was again filled, and "Baby," with his fat, rosy, chubby cheeks, was the pet of all the household, and the wound caused by the death of little Willie was in a measure healed by this last precious gift. 
                  What sight on earth can be lovelier than a pleasant fireside, where a father, mother, and sweet prattling little ones compose the circle- love and joy reigning supreme-a beautiful home picture. For the time being, all sad remembrances are swallowed up in the ecstasy of present joy. 
                  Although Mrs. Leslie very often found the path of the step-mother to be thickly strewn with thorns, and often when she was unjustly assailed by reproaches, and meddlesome people would misconstrue her kindest acts to those under her care, then would her heart look back through the vista of time, and long, O, how ardently, to enjoy once more the pleasures of her childhood's home, and taste the pure joy of loving, and being loved in return, that only one who her heart in its silent whisperings told her she could ever truly love. 
                  How truly says the poet-"The heart may break, yet brokenly live on;" and at times how sad, O, how sad, was the life of her who was now fettered by the galling chains which pressed her very soul into the dust, and pierced her soul with agony! 
                  But she would soon smother these thoughts, for she felt they were "forbidden fruit," of which she must not taste. But the prattle of the little affectionate Charlie, and the loving witchery of her sweet little Willie, who she had given the name of his deceased brother, seemed to render her comparatively happy, unless it were at times, when the tempest would rage around her with awful fury, then she would silently wait till the fury of the elements was somewhat spent, then go on again in the discharge of her duties as before-duty, stern duty, pressing her on. 
                  When Willie was about six months old, and a rosy-cheeked, black-eyed babe he was, the inmates of Mr. Leslie's house were one night aroused from their slumbers by the cry of "fire, fire!" and her brother John rushing into the house echoing those terrible words; "fire! fire!" Mrs. Leslie sprang from the bed, caught her babe in her arms, aroused her husband, and while the villagers, who had heard the alarm of fire, rushed in, endeavoring to save what valuables they could, John Ray succeeded in arousing the children who were sleeping up stairs, and in one short hour that beautiful home was in ashes. The next morning they felt they were homeless. A small part of their furniture and their clothing was rescued from the fiery elements, and Dr. Cary, their family physician, who was present, took occasion to congratulate Mrs. Leslie relative to that fact, but her heart-felt reply was, "My children-my jewels, are saved!" And how fervently did she thank the great Ruler of all good for the very narrow escape from so horrid a death. It was thought to have been the work of an incendiary. Mr. Leslie tried in vain to find a suitable dwelling to put his family in. But in the little village of Glenwood there were but few houses to let, and emigrants constantly coming in from some eastern state, made it a difficult matter to secure a house at a moment's warning. Indeed no decent house could be procured; but they were compelled to accept of the shelter of an old dilapidated dwelling, quite unfit for any one, much more for a feeble person, as Mrs. L. was fast becoming, to reside in. But there was no alternative. Mr. L. had purchased a fine farm at a distance of a few miles from Glenwood, on which he had intended at some future day to build a farm-house and move his family there. Now it was decided to put up a house on his farm just as soon as he possibly could, as cold weather would soon appear, and it would not be safe to think of remaining in that open house through the winter. Here the clouds of sorrow grew thick and dark-Mrs. Leslie's health gradually declining, and little Willie the second, being teething, was taken very ill, and lay for months, much as the former Willie had done, constantly under the care of the family physician, Dr. C., suffering intensely. Indeed Mrs. L. thought she must lose him too. In addition to their other trials, Mr. Leslie was compelled to be away from home superintending the putting up of the new house, leaving the feeble mother to keep lonely vigils over her sick child. But he was spared a while longer to cheer and comfort his mother. As I before mentioned, the house was very open, consequently Mrs. L. caught a severe cold, a cough set in, and she truly thought she should soon follow her darling babe and that sainted mother, who had died the summer previous, to a happier land. 
                  To add to her trials, her dear father, that good old man to whom she had so often fled for counsel and consolation, was taken ill, and medical aid could avail nothing; he too, must go. But he was prepared to die. His name was registered in that "Book of Life" we read of. It seemed the community could illy spare Mr. Ray. But all must succumb to that enemy-Death-and, well would it be, if all were as well prepared for the summons as he was. 
                  With joy she saw Willie once more convalescent. God saw fit to spare him a while longer, and although he had lain months at the gates of the river, yet she had the unspeakable joy of once more seeing him "crowing and clapping his chubby hands" as "Pa" or "Ma" came in sight of his crib. 
                  But Mr. Ray sank away, and was laid in the quiet burying-ground of Glenwood by the side of her he had wooed and won many years before. 
                  The dreary months at last rolled around, and in the cold month of December they moved into their new house and on their new farm. And, although Mrs. L. could not but regret leaving her friends in Glenwood, where she had received so many marks of love and esteem; yet she said "anywhere to be at home." 
                  Mr. L. had selected a very pretty, romantic spot for his home, intending to make it a place of future residence. A beautiful green plot in front of his house, where he had saved from the woodman's axe a few nice young shade trees, which, after having their tops sawed off, made a nice little grove; and on each side of his house he soon had a young orchard, composed of apple, plum, and pear trees; and back of the house was a fine garden, also pear, plum, and cherry trees. 
                  On the whole it was a pretty home. Perhaps we may as well here remark that Mrs. L. loved to write. And many an otherwise sad hour has been pleasantly spent in making "thought tracks" on paper. She contributed to several first-class magazines, writing over many assumed names; she also contributed to some "weeklies," their county papers being one of the number. She generally wrote prose; but, although no poetess, she now and then ventured a few lines of "verses" not "poetry." While thus holding converse with the muses, she penned some lines in memory of her lost Willie, also a piece entitled "The lonely Step-mother," which, as I have them in my possession, and they are not widely circulated, I will pen down at the close of this story, thinking they may not be devoid of interest to the reader of her trials and sorrows. 
                  Sometimes at the bottom of her pieces you would find, "***, Glen Arbor." Therefore as she had designated their new home as "Glen Arbor," we will continue the practice, as we see nothing unharmonious in the name. But I am digressing. We will return to our heroine, Mrs. Leslie. She felt that here she had "a pretty home," and she would try to be happy for the sake of those sweet darlings which God had given her. But suffering was making rapid inroads on that frail constitution. Long months and years of illness succeeded, and, O, how often would her physician think he could do no more for her; she must die! Still she lived: her sufferings at times very intense. And now she realized the depth of her children's love. How Charlie, now seven years old, and even the little Willie would watch her every want! 
                  O, how sweetly, as they tripped lightly up stairs to their little bed, would she hear the affectionate and loving "Good night, Ma." And in the morning, too, the first thing as she uncloses her eyes, is the sweet voice of Charlie, "Good morning, Ma! How do you feel this morning? Be you any better?" 
                  Thus day after day did those two cherub ones strew flowers, sweet flowers, along the pathway of their suffering mother, and by their untiring devotion and thoughtfulness far beyond their years, and love to each other, make her fireside quite pleasant. 
                  Mrs. Leslie was an invalid for many years; still there were times when she was comparatively comfortable. At such intervals she wrote much. She loved to write. When they had been on their new farm three years, the once obscure Lillie Ray had become famous! Yes; she was an authoress. Her first book was published in New York, in one of the best publishing houses in the city, and for which she received a handsome compensation, and one dozen copies of the work. O, how her soul thrilled with pleasure at the sight of her first book. None but those who have passed through the same longings, the same aspirations, and then began to realize the fulfilment of their long-cherished hopes, can appreciate her joy. 
                  The first edition soon passed off, and a second was issued, and that within a few months of its first issue. 
                  But if fame was sweet, which could not be denied, how much sweeter was the music of her sweet birdies. Dear children! Even little Willie, as he emerged into his, sixth and seventh summer, had become so familiar with his invalid mother's wants, that in absence of a domestic he would prepare for his sick "Ma," a cup of fragrant green tea, a cracker, or perhaps a nice slice of buttered toast, and carrying it to her bedside, present it so lovingly: those children were treasures indeed! 
                  After long years of suffering, remedies were found which in a measure rebuilt that shattered constitution, and health once more began to flow in her veins. 
                  Her step-children, who had formerly treated her with much severity, began to love her, and the star of her hope once more illumed her darkened pathway. The two girls married well, and when they could come home to make "Ma" a visit looked upon it as a happy event. 
                  Frederic had grown to be a fine young man; was engaged in business, and whenever he came home for a visit, was certain to bring "Ma" a nice present. And love and peace once more presided at the step-mother's fireside. Indeed all past abuse was forgiven-forgotten-in their present kindness and love. But alas! That state of domestic happiness was of short duration. The rumbling of distant thunder is heard in the distance. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                   
                     Death claims the second Willie-Charlie ill-Recovers-Frederic returns home, and he and Charlie enlist. 
                   
                  BUT alas! how little we know what a day will bring forth. 
                  One Sabbath morning when Willie arose and came down to breakfast, he complained of "sore throat." His mother's fears were somewhat aroused, as that malignant disease-diphtheria, had been desolating many homes, and had snatched many, very many, sweet buds from the parent stem to bloom anew in a celestial clime. 
                  Still she hoped it might prove only an attack of quinsy, as Willie had been subject to frequent attacks; and Mrs. Leslie had been so accustomed to check the disease in its first stages, and thus mitigate his sufferings, she hoped to do so now. 
                  Willie was usually an affectionate and obedient boy, but a day or two previous to this he had manifested a spirit of disobedience in a trifling affair, which, in a less observant eye, would have been nothing, and would have passed unnoticed. But as company had prevented her attention to the subject at that time, she chose this morning, as they chanced to be alone, to call the affair to mind. Willie was truly penitent, and promised future obedience; and after a slight correction his mother again gladly met him with love and forgiveness. But, O, how the thought of that correction haunted her in after days! It could not be wrong, as she was in the discharge of her duty, but had she known how soon her darling boy would be gone, she "would have been more patient, more loving!" such were her ponderings. Aye, how little did she dream of the cloud which hung already pregnant with sorrow over the little band at her fireside! 
                  Willie grew worse through the day, and evening plainly told the grief-stricken parents that diphtheria, that dreaded disease, in its most malignant form, had chosen their pet for a victim. 
                  Everything which love could do was done to save their darling Willie, and at times their hopes were strong that he would recover, and then in a very short time he would relapse into such deathly "sinking spells" which seemed like death itself, that precluded all hope. 
                  After seven days of suffering and pain, one morning he sank back into one of those awful attacks, and as his father stood over him in agony of mind, his mother was so near exhausted that her limbs refused to support her, and she could only lie on the lounge and languidly gaze on her dying boy, for move she could not. Charlie, with a heart-broken voice bent over his little brother, and lovingly plead: "O, Willie, do speak to Charlie once more! O, do! I will give you anything I've got; my guinea pig, or anything I've got; O, do just speak to Charlie once more-O, do!" It was enough to melt a heart of adamant And finally, after a long time, the voice of love and affection had an effect which all other means had failed in having, and the dear sufferer feebly opened his eyes and looked up in the face of his grief-stricken and weeping brother. 
                  Joy! joy! he was alive! Charlie, seizing upon the moment of life, hastened to gently raise Willie and placed to his lips-O, so carefully-a powder which his parents hoped, if he could only swallow it, might relieve him again. And true enough, medicine began to take effect, and with joy unutterable those parents and brother once more heard little Willie's voice! Blessed sound! Indeed he seemed better! And while they stood around his bedside rejoicing that he once more knew them, he looked up, and with a smile faintly whispered "O, pa, I am so weak, I can hardly raise one of my little fingers." Mr. Leslie hastily harnessed his team, and Charlie was hastily despatched for Mrs. Verbeck, an intimate friend of the family, and also a favorite of the two children, but who the bad roads had prevented from visiting the family in their affliction. 
                  They soon arrived, and how joyfully was she received! Seeing her friends so near exhausted through care and fatigue, she first went to Willie's bedside, and, like an angel, by her kindly sympathy and cheerful countenance, produced a magical influence on the sinking sufferer, and then instantly sat about preparing a warm breakfast for her worn-out friends. By the way, at the commencement ment of Willie's illness Mrs. Leslie had no domestic, and her husband had been so constantly confined to the house with his sick boy, that he had been unable to leave in search of one. 
                  Mrs. Verbeck staid through the day and night. Towards evening the physician arrived, but he gave them little, if any, hope. The dear child lived four days from that memorable morning, and at times he would be so much better seemingly, that their hopes would be aroused and they would think "he surely is better;" and perhaps in twenty minutes from that time he would sink away again into those sinking spells, so deceitful is that terrible disease when it attacks in a malignant form, especially if the patient, as was the case with Willie, is of a scrofulous habit. 
                  On the eleventh day from the commencement of his illness his dear parents with alarm noticed that a great change was taking place, although perfectly rational, still he was so white and deathlike! Towards night his pa took him gently in his arms, as he was in the habit of doing, brought him out into the room where the family were and placed him in the big arm-chair, in order to have his room ventilated and his bed beaten smoothly. His mama washed him carefully, bathed his face and hands with camphor and water, and combed up his soft, silken hair just as she used to comb it when he was well. O, how heavenly he looked as he gazed around on his dear friends! A bright smile played over his features, and what a beautiful countenance! I shall never forget that look! Indeed he had the appearance of an inhabitant of another and a fairer sphere. 
                  After a little he asked to be placed "on the lounge." His father objected, knowing his feebleness. But his mother could not deny his request, as his countenance showed a look of grief as he tried to say "it is so lonesome in the bed-room," and she pleadingly begged her husband to indulge their dying boy, which he did. 
                  After lying there a short time, he again asked to be carried to his bed, and seemed to rest quite easily in comparison with his past sufferings, which had been intense. As the shades of twilight drew near his physician called again, but his grave looks gave them no hopes and pierced their hearts like a dagger. He even said to Mr. Leslie out doors, "he cannot live many hours." 
                  Silent and still as the grave did all move around, and while Mr. Leslie and Mrs. Verbeck watched by Willie's bed-side, his mother was persuaded to lie down to obtain, if possible, a little repose. She had lain but a few moments before her friends aroused her with, "Willie is going." 
                  O, who can paint the agony of friends when the dread Monster is snatching away their loved ones! never more to hear their loved voices; never, never more! It is in vain for any pen to attempt to paint the scene. Only those who have felt it can realize such sorrow, such soul agony! 
                         
                           "Silent 'round our dying blossom 
                           In our agony we stood, 
                           Bitter grief into our bosom 
                           Pouring her tempestuous flood. 
                        
                         
                           "Who but he who formed the soul 
                           Knows how high its 'billows roll?' 
                           Ah! the tempest of the soul, 
                           Who but Jesus can control? 
                        
                        
                         
                           "O, to look upon him lying, 
                           Fading, wasting still away! 
                           Oh! to feel that he was dying, 
                           Of grim death the lovely prey." 
                        
                     
                   
                  He only breathed shorter and shorter and gently passed away, like the gentle, flickering rays of the setting sun. We will draw a curtain over that night's sorrows. Poor Charlie! It was mournful indeed to witness his grief! For several days and nights in succession, he neither ate nor slept but very little, and on his return from the burial of Willie, he says: "Ma, please take off my cravat from my neck, for I have the sorest throat you ever saw." 
                  In alarm she took the garment from his neck, when to her agonized heart the truth unfolded itself, he too had got the diphtheria! Could it be wondered at? He had stood over him, inhaling his putrid breath by assisting in nursing him: and going without food or rest brought him down also. 
                  Deeply did Mrs. Leslie reproach herself for allowing him to go near his sick brother, and thus inhale the contagious breath! But she could hardly have done otherwise, for neighbors were so alarmed at the idea of diphtheria that but one or two of her nearest ones came in to assist in nursing. And even had there been plenty of nurses, it is doubtful if Charlie could have been persuaded to have forsaken that pet brother in his sufferings. Let that be as it may, Charlie surely had diphtheria! This time they thought they would act promptly, and if possible save their last child-at least Mrs. Leslie's last child. 
                  But all that medical skill could accomplish seemed for a while futile, and all thought Charlie too must die. One evening, the physician being there, his countenance spoke more than words. Poor Charlie was laboring for breath; and it did seem that he would choke to death, as so many have done with that terrible disease. About an hour previous to the arrival of the physician he had been taken suddenly worse. As his father stood over him, he feebly gasped, "I can't breathe." His father in alarm, and raising a look of silent agony to his wife, took him in his strong arms, and carrying him into the room where the family were sitting, placed him in the arm-chair, and all were so anxious to relieve his sufferings; but alas! he seemed to be suffocating; what could be done? But O, joy! "the doctor has come"! Indeed it was opportune. But alas! he thought it was canker filling his throat, and with a sad countenance he opened his mouth and placed between his teeth a bit of cotton saturated with peppermint, hoping the volatile properties of this essence might give a little temporary relief; then, resolved to leave no means untried, he put a blister from ear to ear around the sufferer's throat, after which, with a voice choking with emotion, he pressed the child's hand, and with a stifled good bye left the house. Mr. Leslie followed him out-doors. "Can't you save him?" asked the agonized father. "I cannot," replied the physician frankly. "I have done all I can do for him." O, agony! Mrs. Leslie went to her closet, and there she plead with Him who has said: "If ye ask anything in my name, believing, it shall be done for you of my Father which is in Heaven." 
                  Blessed words! Precious promise! 
                  She plead, if it was God's will and design to take her child, that He would mitigate his sufferings ings. She felt that she could not see him suffer so intensely. When she entered the room again her boy was still choking, but soon he gasped: "give me something to vomit me." It was done, and he was relieved! Then he was carried to his bed again, and there he lay as white as his loved Willie was when arrayed for the grave, but thank God, much relieved! 
                  Now here are two points I wish to impress on the minds of the reader. First, who shall say or doubt but the dear Redeemer, who gave his life for us on the cross, did not answer the pleadings of that agonized mother's heart, and save her child? I firmly believe God will hear and answer those who pray in faith. Secondly, nature seemed to dictate and whisper to the mind of the suffering boy what he needed to help him. 
                  "Give me something to vomit me," he said. It was effectual! It is a given-up point by some very eminent medical men, that there are rare cases of illness, where, when all ordinary remedies fail and the system is insensible to the power of medicine, the whole materia medica fails to find an antidote, and the patient must die, that nature whispers to the suffering one some particular article of food or medicine which contains those medical qualities which will restore the patient to health if procured. 
                  This fact in medical science was more fully tested later in the evening in the case now before us, in Charley's case. "I want some warm biscuit and honey," feebly plead the sick boy, as he lay there breathing quietly, but with a face of marble whiteness. 
                  Preposterous idea! How could they grant so unreasonable a request; still how could they deny him? Mrs. Leslie thought it was probably a peculiar hunger often preceding death, and as the physician had told them he could not live, she said, as he could not live any way, "his desire shall be granted." Some warm biscuit were prepared, and the strange dish of "warm biscuit and honey" placed before him; and in alarm they saw him try to swallow some. He who had been allowed only a teaspoonful of broth at a time, now eating "biscuit and honey." He succeeded in swallowing a little, then feebly said, "I have had enough." The plate was removed, and then he asked for "ma." She went to his bed-side, where sat his "pa," ready to perform for his dying boy any office of love necessary, and as he reached out his little, thin white hands, he took with one hand his "pa's," and with the other one clasped his mother's. "My ma and my pa," said the dear child so sweetly. And such a heavenly smile lit up that sweet face that he seemed more like a spirit from another and a happier clime. 
                  He distributed his little treasures, giving to each one some token of love, and especially asking to have some articles which he specified "sent to his oldest brother or half-brother." He seemed to think now that his work was done for earth; and reaching out his hands again to each, and with such a smile, said: "Good bye, ma! good bye, pa!" and sank away quietly; and as his parents thought perhaps they had heard that sweet voice for the last time, they could not restrain the scalding tears and groans of agony. 
                  But God ordered otherwise. Towards morning, Mrs. Leslie was summoned: Charlie wished to see "ma." As she drew near the sufferer, "I am going to ask the LORD to spare my life," said he in his simple faith; and afterwards, "I think I shall live. I think the LORD will let me live to do good. I want to send some money to those poor heathen children," said he to his pastor, who had been conversing with him. But these hopeful words found no answering echo in his parents' breasts, for they thought him past hope. But GOD did spare him; and I have now no doubt but He who said, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not," heard the simple child-like prayer of sweet Charlie on that bed of pain. Let skeptics cavil if they will. 
                  After the crisis in his disease he lay for many weeks just alive, and was kept alive by feeding him a teaspoonful of brandy every hour; still he lived! How very many times has Mrs. L., after she had become lost in slumber for a few moments, leaving him to the care of some faithful one, how often, when thus aroused, would the first words be, "Is he still alive?" and was as often answered in the affirmative. When his physician was notified that he was "alive and his attendance requested," he replied, "no doubt that choking so bad was partially the effect of a spasm of the wind-pipe," which readily accounts for the salutary effects of the emetic. His mother had herself suffered from that disease, spasms of the wind-pipe, and too well she remembered the terrible sufferings of those hours; and poor Charlie's throat being so swollen and filled with putrid canker, made his sufferings two-fold when attacked with spasms. Dr. -- again renewed his attendance on him, (for he had been dismissed, thinking all earthly help vain,) and faithfully too, did he watch his charge. He afterwards remarked to a friend, "that was the sickest person I ever treated who lived," referring to Charlie Leslie. Weeks rolled around, and Charlie was really better, although the change in him for the better was so gradual that it could hardly be perceived. Cough, cough-poor fellow-it seemed surely that diphtheria had only spared him to be a victim to consumption. A perfect skeleton; his father would take him in his arms and place him in the arm-chair, where he would sit some time, then be carried back to bed again. 
                  But there came a morning at last when the little fellow's eyes sparkled with joy. He was going to ride out. The sleigh was brought to the door; "Morg" and "Pete" stood impatient to start; quilts put in to wrap up in; Mr. Leslie took the pale boy in his arms and put him, while ma took her place beside him, and away they went. They rode several miles to the house of a friend, where they were cordially welcomed. 
                  In a few weeks Charlie was so far restored that he could walk around the room and ride out with his parents with ease, but had all the symptoms of lung disease. Constantly annoyed by a harrassing cough which racked his thin, skeleton frame terribly, his physician thought he was past hope! Only spared to become the victim of consumption. Several large abscesses had broken in his lungs, in one of which attacks he came very near dying. His sufferings had been so intense that, as I before remarked, he was wasted to a mere skeleton, and still he lived, a wonder to all! 
                  Mrs. Leslie now began to realize and to have time to grieve for Willie-time for reflection, and to realize to its full extent her loss in losing her cherub-boy. Charlie, too, continued to sorrow for his brother deeply. But time, that soother of all human woes, in a measure blunted the keenness of the dagger. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "My child! my dear, lost child! a mother's heart, 
                           Touched by the holy wand of memory, 
                           Would in this hour of loneliness and gloom 
                           Hold sweet communion with thy soul. 
                        
                         
                           My boy! thou 
                           Wast most beautiful. I never looked on thee 
                           But with a heart of pride. Thy curls 
                           Fell o'er a brow of angel-loveliness 
                        
                         
                           Thy few brief years were years of 
                           Suffering; aye, thy cup of life was bitter, 
                           Bitter! But thou wast not doomed 
                           To drain it. For a God of mercy soon 
                           Let it pass from thee." 
                        
                      
                     T. S. ARTHUR. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                   
                     Fred comes home-Charlie and Fred enlist-Charlie becomes a Drummer. 
                   
                  "A LETTER from Frederick!" joyfully exclaimed Charlie, as his pa came in, and, unbuttoning his overcoat, took from one of it's pockets a letter and handed it to his wife, who, taking it, read it aloud. It spoke of feeling deeply to sympathize with his dear parents in their late bereavement, of joy at Charlie's recovery; "indeed," said the writer, "it was the happiest moment of my life, when I learned by your last letter, that I had yet a brother alive." Fred then went on to say he should "soon be home." Another letter followed this one, in which he asked his father to meet him at the depot on a specified day. 
                  Charlie, though still not strong, accompanied his father to the depot, to welcome his brother. The shades of twilight were fast gathering around, and Mrs. Leslie was just lighting the lamps, when Charlie, with joy depicted in every feature, accompanied by his elder brother and his father, came in. 
                  Greetings over, then there were presents for "ma" and for Charlie. First, an elegant locket, containing a miniature of himself, then a gold pen, and a silver pencil case, followed by smaller tokens of love, "purchased on purpose for ma" said the giver. 
                  "How great the contrast," thought the stepmother, as she received these tokens of love from her step-son; "to the manner in which I was treated a few years since." Mrs. Leslie had, with all others who assume the position of a step-mother, seen months and years of sorrow. And often had she thought: "if it were not for the love of my sweet children, I could not live." 
                  But the programme had changed. There was now nothing too good for "ma." And all of her adopted ones seemed to vie with each other in seeing who could be the kindest. She felt that their present love amply repaid her for those long years of sorrow. 
                   
                  All were now as happy as they could be in view of their late bereavement. 
                   
                  A regiment was being formed at a place near by; and one company would be raised from Glenwood, and Glen Arbor. 
                  "Fred is going to enlist; he told me so to-day," said Mr. Leslie one day to his wife. 
                  When Charlie became apprised of his brother's intention; he felt that he could not be left again alone-now Willie was gone-no! He would see if they would take him for a drummer; "might he go?" he asked. "Let us give our consent," said his father one day to Mrs. Leslie; "for they will not accept him, so young and sickly a child; but he will feel better about it if he offers himself and is refused, than if we forbade him; and more than that, wife, if we withhold our consent, he may, in some moment of nervous excitability, go without our leave; and perhaps enlist in some strange far-off regiment, all among strangers for comrades." 
                   
                  "But if they should accept him, he is too sensitive a child to go into the army;" answered the mother. This last remark was not prompted by any feeling of disloyalty, or an unwillingness to do her part towards furnishing the sacrifices required by our country, in this her hour of peril; for she had often sincerely wished her boy was old enough, and robust enough, to endure a camp life. But, she thought, and truly too, that Charlie's frail health and tender years were illy suited to the scenes and fare of a soldier life. 
                  But consent was granted; he offered himself and was readily accepted. It was wrong, and illegal. And every one was astonished that the examining surgeon "passed" him; and at the same time "threw out" many apparently stout, robust men, for some trifling ailment. 
                  But here lay the secret. The man elected by the company for its commander, was an old friend of Mr. Leslie's; and Charlie, being rather a favorite, he was anxious to have him go as a drummer in his company. He accordingly sent in Lieutenant Sharpe, when the examination was going on with the following message to the surgeon: "I want you to pass Charlie Leslie, if he has a broken leg; I want him to go." 
                  When his mother learned the decision of the surgeon, she pondered thus: "perhaps in all this, there is an overruling providence; and even that pale, sickly child may have a part to act in this great drama which is now convulsing our nation. If so, God's will be done. If duty calls, he must go." 
                  Mr. Leslie, in conversation with his future captain, referred to his tender years,-only fourteen-to go out into danger and privations, with stern men for comrades." 
                  "I will be a father to him," said that good and lamented man; which promise he fulfilled to the letter. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                   
                     The two soldier boys bid adieu to their friends, and join their regiments. 
                   
                  IT is the Sabbath, and the family of Mr. Leslie are enjoying their last day together; ere the boys go into rendezvous-for they were now soldiers. 
                  A sadness pervaded the entire group; as they drew their chairs around the tea-table, to eat the last meal together, ere the boys departed. 
                  The mother tried so hard to seem cheerful, and to swallow a few mouthfuls, but she could not. 
                  In vain she reminded the boys that there "was some nice iced cake; made on purpose for them;" alas! their hearts were too full to eat much, they too, felt the separation deeply. Finally, all left the table with the food hardly tasted. 
                  O, how many have been the homes, in the last four years, which have been made desolate in the same manner. The light and beauty of their home has gone forth to suffer, perhaps to die. 
                  Towards evening, as Mrs. Leslie stood in the front door, gazing out into the forest in front of the house, thinking,-aye, sadly thinking,-she heard foot-steps, and turning round, she saw her step-son and Charlie approaching to bid her farewell. 
                  "Well, ma," spoke her step-son, "I suppose I must bid you good bye." He extended his hand to his step-mother, and then stepped aside to give his little brother a chance; and O, what artist's pencil could faithfully portray the scene there enacted? Charlie, standing there, arrayed in a dainty suit of black, a mere child-pale as death, but O, so beautiful! And as he reached out his hand to his mother, there was written on that handsome, intellectual brow, a quiet determination to persevere, and to be manly; but, in spite of all, the silent tears would come and chase each other down that pale face in rapid succession, while he, with all a child's fervor and affection tried to say, "Good bye, ma." No painter could paint that scene faithfully. 
                   
                  
                      
                        "WELL, MA, I MUST BID YOU GOOD BY." 
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  Where was his mother's Spartan courage which she had imagined she had collected for the occasion? Gone! The mother's heart predominated and tears would come in spite of patriotism and all other virtues. That darling boy, so young and feeble, to go out and associate daily with sterner and coarser natures; and, perhaps be captured by the merciless rebels, or torn in pieces by those cruel shells, and fancy was portraying his future vividly, but she strove to veil the picture, and to think "if he is in the path of duty, God will protect him." O, how earnestly did she that, and succeeding nights, plead with the King of Kings, to spare her child. 
                   
                  The boys wrote home quite often, and each letter spoke of Charlie becoming "more healthy," and camp-life agreeing with him, &c. 
                  They had been gone a few months, not yet having left the State, but daily expecting orders to march, when one day Mrs. Leslie having stepped in to a near neighbor's for a few moments, what was her surprise on her return, to find hanging up a soldier coat. Whose could it be? She stepped to the door and looked out to see who the owner might be. O, joy! There was her darling Charlie, dressed in the uniform of a musician coming up at a rapid pace; almost running to greet his mother, as he had just been into the field where his pa was working, and had there learned that his mother would soon return. Blissful hours! 
                  But the pure joy his mother felt at once more seeing her child, was in a measure marred by the fact that he was now in the service of his country, and might at any moment be ordered to march; and perhaps in some deadly strife, be torn from her arms forever! Thus it is ever, no bliss without alloy. O, how precious seemed every golden moment! If she could only lengthen the short eight day's furlough! The time soon rolled around, and he must again go. He must start at two o'clock in the morning, in order to be in time for the morning train. His mother awoke him after he had lain but two hours, for he had been visiting the previous evening with his young associates, and had consequently retired late. 
                  He arose instantly; dressed, and was ready to go with his father, who took him to the depot, a distance of eighteen miles. His mother had prepared a warm breakfast for them, but Charlie could not taste a mouthful; no, not even a swallow of warm tea; how could he, with such a full heart? No, not one mouthful, and that long ride in the cold before him! See, how pale he looks! Has he not a brave heart? Slowly, solemnly, he puts on his overcoat and soldier-cap; and the horses are already at the door, and now must come another parting trial. His mother did think this time that she had steeled her heart for the occasion, and had maintained a cheerful exterior, but when the time arrived for the parting, he, poor child, reached his hand to his mother, then turned aside his face to hide his emotion which he had stifled till his young heart was nigh bursting,-the tension insupportable; still not a tear to be seen. His mother tried to speak: "Charlie, let others do as they may, at all times I want you to try to do right." "Yes," was the faint response to a parent's wishes, from an obedient child, and he was gone. O, agony! In vain did his mother gaze at the beautiful gold ring which he had bought her, placing it himself on her slender finger; and that sweet, dainty neck-tie, which he had bought her at Bloomington City; these loved mementoes only probed the wound still deeper, and reminded her of the treasure she had lost. But again she thought: "Perhaps God has a work for him to do:-if so, I must feel, 'Thy will be done.'" 
                  One day, a letter came saying: "We are ordered to march south; our precise destination is unknown, probably Vicksburgh. But don't worry about me ma, for I am all right, and like camp life, &c." They lay under marching orders some time, not knowing what hour they must leave. Several times the orders were countermanded. While laying encamped at Bloomington City, Charlie was taken sick with lung fever. While lying in the regimental hospital ill, he one night staggered to the door, and judge his alarm on seeing the barracks on fire, while the inmates were soundly sleeping, unconscious of danger! Some one else happened also to espy the fire at the same time. An alarm was quickly raised, and every effort made to arouse the sleepers, while the flames raged with awful fury! The bunks being filled with straw, afforded good material for the fiery elements, and before they could be got out two poor fellows were burned to death, while several more were burned so severely that they only survived a few days. Most all of the soldiers lost their clothing, and those who had money or valuables lost all. 
                  Here again was the kindness and love of our heavenly Father manifested, in saving the two young Leslies. Charlie tried to get out doors when he saw the flames, and walked a few rods, when he fell, and a kind brother musician took him in his strong arms and carried him to the captain's headquarters, where he made a bed of quilts, and laid him down. Here he was safe, as the captain's headquarters were not burned. 
                  In the morning he was taken to St. Mary's hospital. His illness was of short duration, and when the regiment really did start for "Dixie," he was able to go with the rest. Their first stopping place was Columbus, Ky. 
                   
                  A few weeks later another letter came. They were ordered to Vicksburg. Who will forget that long, dreadful siege? While lying there, previous to the surrender, many of the regiment died from illness caused by the poor water and acclimation to the climate. But our Charlie truly seemed to be watched over by the Great All-Father, for he enjoyed fair health nearly all the time; indeed was becoming quite a robust boy, so salutary had been the effects of a southern climate on his frail constitution. 
                  In one letter Charlie sent his mother a beautiful black ring, which he made from an article he called "candle coal," an article which is found on the Yazoo river, and from which our soldier boys manufactured finger rings, to send home to their friends as precious relics. Some of them would be ingeniously made, adorned with diamonds, hearts, &c., of pearl or silver. 
                  Another letter, soon after, spoke of the final surrender of that nest of treason. Charlie says: "Vicksburgh has surrendered!" O! glorious news! "We think the rebellion has about played out." And concluded his loving epistle by urging his "ma" not to worry about him, etc. About this time, the company in which Charlie was a member, Co. B, had the misfortune to lose their captain,-not by the enemy's bullets, but by the accidental discharge of one of his men's muskets. He lived only a few hours; and never was an officer more deeply regretted by all under his control, and also by his brother officers, than was this noble man. Poor Charlie felt that he had lost a "father." Indeed he won the love of all who knew him. 
                  From Vicksburgh, they were sent up the Missouri to Helena, where Fred was left in the hospital and Charlie was left alone. But he had won the love of his comrades and superiors, and it may not be amiss to here quote a few lines from the pen of his captain before his death. The captain wrote a letter to Charlie's father, in which he says: "I must repeat what I have often said, that Charlie makes a good soldier; ever trusty, faithful and obedient to orders; kind and pleasant among his comrades, and courteous to his officers." 
                  O, how Mrs. Leslie's heart leaped with pride and joy when she read this eulogy on her boy! 
                  A mother's anxiety had pictured to her morbid nerves a thousand unpleasant things, fearing he might do wrong, and no watchful spirit near to admonish him. "But if he is still good, uncontaminated by the vices of camp life, I will be submissive," said she. And thus she hoped on, prayed on, writing often to him, and always asking him to resist all unholy examples. 
                  Charlie's regiment was consigned to the Second Corps, Steele's Division, whose headquarters were at Little Rock, Ark., where they were when the Red River expedition was fitted out, intending to coperate with Banks and Thomas. This was in April, 1864, that memorable time in our country's history, when all of our readers, conversant with the history of the present rebellion, will remember that the supply trains of our army were captured by Price's forces somewhere between Little Rock and Camden, thus leaving our poor boys minus rations, which was not a pleasant state of things, when we take into consideration the fact that at Camden they were surrounded by the enemy; capture and "Libby," or starvation, staring them in the face. 
                  But General Steele was equal to the emergency, and after remaining in Camden a few days on half rations, he conceived the bold and energetic idea of retreating to Little Rock, five day's march, with no food for his men, and well aware that he would have to contend with superior forces of the enemy on the way, as they thought they were sure of their prey. And he did retreat, and save his men from "Libby" by forced marches, and the rebs constantly annoying his rear. 
                  And through those five toilsome, weary day's march, with death or Libby prison, which would be worse than death, staring them in the face, those brave men had no food, except a very little corn which was taken from the mules' portion of feed! 
                  The last few miles was a race for life or death between the two armies, but our union forces were this time victorious in the end, preceding the enemy a few hours, and were safely ensconced at Little Rock, ready to act on the defensive. Our loss was not heavy; the regiment to which Charlie and Fred belonged lost but sixty men, Company B only one. 
                  O, who can express the gratitude of Charlie's mother, when, after receiving intelligence of the expedition's failure, "living on raw corn, being so closely pursued by Price's men, &c," to receive a letter from Charlie in his own hand-writing, saying he was alive and well. Some as brave fellows as ever lived had fallen, and their mothers, wives, and sisters were left to mourn; but Charlie was spared this time also. What cause for gratitude! 
                  But the excitement and long march, added to their fasting, soon laid him on the soldier's couch, ill. We will now leave them for a while, after mentioning one circumstance connected with -- regiment. 
                  When the regiment was first organized, a Rev. Mr. Starr was commissioned as Chaplain, but on account of ill health resigned, not much to the regret of the regiment, as he was too aristocratic for an army chaplain. And in some of their marches they had come across a Methodist clergyman by the name of Bentley, who had been acting as chaplain for another regiment, but having left a young orphan daughter, without a mother's care, felt uneasy about her, and had, after a few month's service, resigned, and was on his way home. But, by some strange, overruling power, he was persuaded to again accept a commission, and was duly installed chaplain of the -- regiment, trusting his motherless daughter a while longer to the care of the great All-Father. 
                  He was now chaplain of the -- regiment, and by his kind, loving ways, he soon won the love of all with whom he came in contact. 
                  Although at times there seemed to be a sort of despondency weighing him down, to such an extent that a close observer would at once have drawn the inference, that he had passed through some great sorrow which had left its imprint on that noble soul. But he was usually cheerful. On finding out the name of Company B's drummer to be Leslie, the Chaplain one day ventured to enquire of Charlie his mother's maiden name, and on being told "Lillie Ray," Charlie was surprised to see his Chaplain turn pale, and seem much affected! "What did it matter to him what ma's name was before she was married," thought Charlie, but said nothing. 
                  However there seemed to be a new bond of love to unite them, and henceforth Chaplain Bentley and the drummer Charlie were fast friends. In one of his letters home, Charlie said: "the chaplain who has superceded Starr is a good man, and he is not too proud to speak to a private either." 
                  Here we will leave them for the present, to return by and by. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                   
                     Horace Bentley's departure for the army-The young ladies' aid society. 
                   
                  AS in our last chapter we took leave of Leslie's family, we will now with the reader's permission, take a ramble, and by retracing our steps see if we can find out what Horace has been about, or rather "Rev. Mr. Bentley," as he is now styled. 
                  He had been united in marriage to a sweet young lady just out of her teens, and in one short year after his marriage, was called to follow his youthful and truly worthy companion to that "bourne" from which no traveler returns, leaving a sweet chubby babe, who was called after her mother, and bore the name of Clara. 
                  Clara was now fifteen years old, and her father taking refuge in her society, had never made another choice. Sweet darling Clara was all the company he craved, indeed she was his idol! 
                   
                   
                  The whistle has just sounded, passengers are fast filling the cars at the railroad depot in the quiet and retired village of Newport, when lo! a regiment, or rather a part of a regiment (for part of those troops had gone out on the first train, in the morning), of Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry came rapidly up to the cars, ready to go forth and do battle for their suffering country. 
                  Some are accompanied by loving wives, sisters, sweet-hearts, and daughters, each anxious to take advantage of every precious moment of time in which they could enjoy the society of their departing friends; others had already bade adieu to loved ones; and while traces of recent trial and triumph were stamped on those noble brows-were anxious to have the long-dreaded scene pass over. 
                  But there, away by themselves, stand a middle-aged, noble-looking man;-by his uniform seeming to be a Chaplain;-and, gazing up into his manly face, and holding fast both his hands, is a sweet, blue-eyed girl of not more than fifteen summers, with a lithe, graceful figure, and whose simple but neat attire showed off her lady-like figure to advantage tage; and in a word,-she was fascinating. The reader will readily perceive it to be Horace and his daughter Clara. She tries to be calm;-but Oh, how vain the attempt! The silent tear will come, and moisten those blue eyes, and steal silently down those lovely cheeks, on which cosmetics never found a place. 
                  "You must be brave, dear Clara, you are too good a girl to seek to detain me, when my country calls so loudly for her sons. Cheer up and be a Spartan girl, little one" (patting her cheek lovingly); "God will protect my daughter until my return, which may not be until this unholy rebellion is crushed-crushed forever!" said the speaker, warming up with patriotism. 
                  The sweet, loving eyes, looked up tenderly into the face of her only remaining parent, and she replied tremulously, "Go, dear father-our country needs your services; and I will try hard to be brave,-and Oh, dear father, you will write very often, will you not? And when you do come home, I may come and meet you, may I not?" 
                  "Yes, dear, good bye;" and away went the locomotive containing its precious freight, and the maiden was alone in a measure, for the rest were rapidly dispersing to their respective homes. 
                  Many, alas, very many, had imprinted the last kiss of love, and spoken the last words of endearment which would ever pass their lips, ere they were to be stilled on the dreadful battle field, or in some lone hospital. 
                  Oh, how many sad and broken hearts have been caused by this cruel, cruel war! But to our story. 
                  Clara returned to what was now to be her home. Her father, not wishing her to be left at a boarding-house, had secured her a home during his absence, in the family of a clerical brother, whose name was Requa. Here she returned, and was warmly welcomed by her father's friends, Mr. and Mrs. Requa. 
                  "You must be our Clara, our daughter, while your father is absent," said the reverend gentleman, as he welcomed Clara to her new home. 
                  Clara tried to smile through her tears as she essayed to thank him; and replied, in effect, that she "was truly grateful to find so good a home, and she would endeavor to be happy." 
                  But Clara soon began to feel that she was too inactive. She longed for a field of usefulness. Oh, if she were a man! so she could go forth to battle for her country's rights. 
                  "But I have just thought what I can do," mused she; and giving vent to her feelings she said half aloud: "I will go around this very afternoon and talk with the girls of my acquaintance, and see if they will unite with me, in forming a branch of the Ladies Soldier's Aid Society, and then I can be doing something for my country too." But how to proceed, she hardly knew. "I will put on my hat and shawl immediately. There is Katie Seamen; I will go and see her first," and away she sped on her errand of mercy; light as a young fawn, she tripped away to her friend Katie's home. She found the family seated in their pleasant family sitting-room, some reading, some doing fancy work, while the laughing Katie sat at the piano playing "Brave Boys," and little Blanche, the pet of all the group, was playing with her Tabby. 
                  Katie seemed to be playing "Brave Boys" in a very thoughtful manner, while now and then a tear would moisten those lovely eyes. 
                  "Just the mood to suit my purpose," thought the gentle Clara, as she looked at Katie's unusually pensive countenance. 
                   
                  Katie arose from the piano to welcome the daughter of their former pastor, who was also her bosom friend, which accounts for Clara's freedom. 
                  "Dear Katie," commenced Clara: "we young ladies must go to work for our country, and not sit with folded hands in positive idleness, while our mammas"-looking at Mrs. Seamen as she said this-are doing all they can to help take care of the sick and wounded soldiers. What say you to our uniting in a wee branch of the Aid Society, as I suppose the elderly ladies would not like to have us meet with them; for some of us are such chatterboxes?" casting a roguish glance at Mrs. Seamen. "I say it is our duty, dear Clara, let us be instantly at work. Blanche, run up to my room and get my parasol and hat,-now that is a dear good girl," said Katie; and away the two girls sped to the house of Mr. Howard, a wealthy farmer, who, although a professed Union man, was never willing to loosen his purse strings, when there was any appeal to his benevolence in behalf of soldiers or their families. 
                  Would that he was the only instance of that kind in these days of sacrifice. 
                   
                  "I suppose it will be useless to ask Susan Howard to join us, but we will not pass her by," said Clara. 
                  They found Susan trimming a ball-dress, which she wished to have ready to wear the next evening; while beside her lay a novel, with her scissors lying across the open book, evidently ready to be taken up for further perusal, when Susan became tired of working. 
                  She welcomed her young acquaintances with courtesy; but on their making known their business, her reply was, "She was so fond of reading, and Mr. Redfield," a young attorney who had just taken up his abode in Newport,-"had loaned her quite a variety of late novels, two or three of which were still unread; therefore her time was for the present fully occupied." Indignant at heart, the two young ladies went away feeling that Miss Howard was a heartless girl. But their feelings and patience were put still further to the test, when on entering the next house, in their route of canvassing the village, where resided a gentleman whose name was Seward, well known to be a McClellan man, and of copperhead proclivities clivities. But as they were on friendly terms with the two Miss Sewards, they ventured to call on them, and ask their co-operation. 
                  On making known their business, the girls remained silent, while Mr. and Mrs. Seward went on with such a tirade of abuse that the girls soon left. "If 'Old Abe' wanted to fight; and keep getting all the men in the country wounded, let him take care of them; he wouldn't! They needn't be such fools to go to fight his battles for him, his boys should not go. One of them was in Canada now, to keep from fighting; being one of the conscripts," &c. 
                  As soon as the young ladies were away from the house, Clara broke the silence:-"I should think the lightning of heaven would strike such men, who are so cruel and unfeeling towards our brave boys, who are suffering, and giving even their lives for his home, as well as others. Oh, my blood boils to think how he went on about our good President. Ain't it too bad?" 
                  "Yes, Clara, I was too angry to say much when he spoke of our brave men being fools, but I have heard before that he was a copperhead. And I think too, he is a distant relative of Gov. Seymour. So you need not wonder if he is a copperhead. They say he keeps that awful 'message' we have heard the men talk so much about, as choice as any book he has in the house." 
                  Thus chatting, they arrived at another house. Here were warm-hearted Union people, willing to lend any aid possible. And in most instances they were successful. All were willing to show their patriotism in this way. 
                  They elected Clara president of their Society, while Katie Seamen was appointed treasurer. They met weekly-each member paying a small sum at each meeting; doing what hospital sewing, such as making shirts, drawers, &c., their small funds would allow of; once a month their funds remaining in the treasury, and stores were poured into the "elder branch"-as the girls styled the association of middle-aged ladies. Thus while doing good, Clara felt the absence of her father more endurable. And as he often wrote to her, every letter was looked for with much eagerness. 
                  One of his letters mentioned a "drummer boy belonging to Co. B.,-Regt. Wis. Vol. Inft. He is only seventeen now, and is in the third year of service. His name is Charles Leslie. He is a fine boy, Clara, and by the way, I sometimes wish-well no matter what I wish-only Charlie is quite a favorite of mine." 
                   
                  What was it caused that crimson blush to mantle Clara's cheeks as she perused her father's letter? Did a glance into futurity give her a faint shadowing of something, she hardly knew what? 
                  "Here is my 'pocket-wife,'" exclaimed Clara, as the young ladies were assembled at one of their weekly meetings, handing it to Katie for inspection, while Katie in turn reached hers to Clara. 
                  "Very nice, indeed, Miss Clara; but where is the letter? O, here it is, in this tiny case, folded so neatly." The girls had that week been engaged in each preparing one of those necessary articles for a soldier, a pocket-wife. 
                   
                  "Read the letter, if you wish, Katie. You see I have given my address, and have asked the recipient to answer my letter, so I may know who gets it. I hope some good boy will get it," said Clara; while each young lady presented their's-there were ten in all-to the president, who had them nicely done up and put in a box which was then being prepared for the sanitary commission. 
                  We will now take leave of our patriotic young ladies, and take a sly peep into Mrs. Leslie's quiet home; and if the reader will accompany us, we will take a short glimpse of what is going on among the troops, where Rev. Horace Bentley is acting as chaplain, in our next chapter. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                   
                     A battle-Charlie wounded-Wound not fatal-Sanitary officers distributing sanitary goods-Charlie gets a house-wife-Wants his chaplain to inform his parents of his being wounded-Receives a pocket-wife-Hands the letter it contains to the chaplain to read-It is from Clara. 
                   
                  AN awful battle had been raging; ambulances filled with wounded were slowly wending their way to the brigade hospital; groans, such as would make the stoutest heart melt, would now and then issue from the sufferers; the hospital is reached at last. "I will take you carefully, my poor dear boy," said a reverend gentleman, as he gently lifted a mere child, a drummer boy, from the ambulance, and then with a look of surprise, said: "Oh! it is Charlie," as he still more tenderly carried him in, placing him gently in as good a position as possible under the circumstances. The chaplain was no other than the Rev. Horace Bentley, and the reader has already anticipated the wounded musician to be no other than Charlie Leslie. The poor boy lay there, to all appearances suffering intensely. 
                  "Will you write to mother for me, chaplain?" 
                  "Certainly, if you desire; what shall I tell her?" 
                  "O, tell her it is not a bad wound; tell her not to worry about me; and tell her perhaps I may get a furlough to go home by and by," said Charlie, while now and then a shining tear would moisten those eyes, as he thought of home and home comforts. "Ask her to write to me," continued Charlie, and then sank back on his couch exhausted and faint; and his chaplain sat down and penned the letter to Charlie's mother. 
                  Sanitary officers were distributing wine, crackers, broth, onions, and various other articles, so essential and so comforting after a battle. All at once, a lively, jolly sanitary fellow came along, tossing to each one, as he passed the sufferers, a "pocket-wife." "Here is something to cheer your spirits, boys; something on purpose to keep off the blues," said he, cheerily. And as Charlie raised his feeble hands, he caught an elegant needle-book, containing darning needles, thread, a ball of woolen yarn, and all the "et ctera" indispensable to such an article, but feeling too weak to examine its contents then, put it in his pocket and sank away into a quiet and refreshing slumber, from which he was aroused by the surgeon coming to examine his wound, and who found it "rather bad," he said, but "not a fatal case." It was a saber cut across the forehead. 
                  A few days after this, as the chaplain entered the place where Charlie was lying to enquire after his favorite, the wounded boy smiled and greeted him pleasantly, then handed him a letter to peruse, which he said he "found in a pocket-wife which one of those sanitary fellows gave him." The chaplain took the letter, and while a playful smile lit his features, he read aloud: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Cousin Soldier-All of Uncle Sam's boys are my cousins-I send you a few pins, needles, yarn, etc., knowing you are very far from a loving mother or kind sisters to mend your clothes when they become worn and need it. And in view of this, a few of us idle young girls, with but little to do, thought we would send out a few pocket-wives among our brave boys, hoping the articles they contain will do them good. 
                              "Now, cousin soldier, if your socks become worn and need mending, buttons become loose and come off, don't feel discouraged, but go to your knapsack and there you will find the needed articles. 
                              "Be brave, cousin soldier! Our country needs her bravest sons: and you are acting a part which is a glorious one, in assisting to quell this unholy rebellion. Take courage. We hope the war will soon end, and all our soldiers be allowed to return home. Please reply, 
                                    taht
                                    that
                                  I may know who is the recipient of the small favor I send." 
                              
                                 I am truly, 
                                 the friend of the soldier, 
                                 CLARA BENTLEY. 
                                  
                                    Direct to Newport P. O., -- Co., Wis. 
                                 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  "Ha! ha! Our Clara has been making pocket-wives for the soldiers," said the chaplain, as he looked up at Charlie and handed back to him the letter. "I hope you will reply to her letter, Charlie; Clara is a dear good girl, my boy, and a girl whom I should be loath to part with; indeed I hardly know the young man to whom I would be willing to entrust the well-being of my dear Clara." 
                  "But how is your wound, my dear boy; is it painful?" 
                  "It was very painful; but late in the night the surgeon administered to me an opiate, and since then I have been quite comfortable," said the poor boy. 
                  After a few more cheerful remarks, the chaplain left Charlie to go and look after the rest of the wounded ones; very many of those men were destined, alas! never more to behold their homes or friends on earth. Such is war. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                   
                     Mr. Leslie's death-Charlie's mother receives news of Charlie's being wounded-Recognizes the writer of the letter to be Horace Bentley-Answers the letter. 
                   
                  IT was a fine sunny morning; all nature was clothed in smiles, but sorrow again reigned at that fireside; the "cruel spoiler" who had before chosen the tender buds, had this time called for the head-he who had so many long years been the support of his frail companion, and of his children, had yielded to the power of disease, and had sunk beneath an attack of typhoid fever, and was gone. Charlie had been apprised by letter of his dear father's death; but his mother begged of him not to "allow grief to gain the predominance." To "live for her sake." 
                  Breakfast had been served, and while faithful Bridget, who had been for many years a servant in the family, was clearing away the breakfast things, she who we must now style "widow Leslie," sat knitting, and busily thinking of her "loved and lost ones," hoping to meet them at a day not far distant. A rap; Bridget opens the door. "Here is a letter, Mrs. Leslie; I think by the postmark it is from Charlie," said the speaker, a neighbor of hers. 
                  The widow grasped the letter, and perused it with an avidity such as only a mother can feel who has a son in the army; no other one can appreciate such anxiety. 
                  The letter was written in a strange hand-writing; at least it was not Charlie's writing, but as memory came to her aid, she recalled the penmanship to be that of one whom she had known; yes, known and loved! As she tried to look back through the vista of time, she remembered that peculiar style of writing; yes, it was his own hand-writing! Horace Bentley's! Could it be possible? She rapidly glanced down to the signature, and there it was in a plain, manly style, "Horace Bentley," leaving out the Reverend. And as she hastened to read the letter, a crimson flush dyed her face, and tears rolled down her sorrow-stained cheeks as she read, "Charlie is slightly wounded; but madam, give yourself no uneasiness about him, for all that can be done to make him comfortable we will do with pleasure. Please rest assured of this fact. Charlie is a good boy, and we have an experienced surgeon who will care for him tenderly. General Sheridan was absent from his command when the rebels attacked us; and we were being badly whipped, and our losses were becoming severe, when, thanks to the Good Being who will in due time avenge our cause, I trust, General Sheridan arrived, just in time to save his army. O, could you have heard the rousing cheers which went up from thousands of throats as our noble General made his appearance, riding along the lines, you would have some idea of the estimation he is held in by his men. 
                  But we have lost many brave men; and the number of wounded is great, and we deeply regret that Charlie is among the latter! But I can hope that that heart of patriotism which gave her only child to the service of his country, will also sustain his mother under this trying ordeal of knowing he is wounded, but cannot go to him. 
                  He desired me to ask you not to worry about him, and to give you his love. And I will add on my own responsibility, that he will no doubt obtain a leave of absence, and come home to see you. And as I also intend asking for a furlough to go to Newport, only sixty miles from Glen Arbor, to visit my friends, I shall manage affairs so as to accompany Charlie as far as I go, and retain him at Newport until he is a little recruited, before proceeding further. So dear lady, give yourself no more uneasiness about your boy than you can help, for he will be kindly cared for until he steps on his mother's threshold, etc." 
                  "Thank God that his life is spared," ejaculated widow Leslie as she finished the perusal of this letter; but oh, how many fond mother's hearts will be rent asunder by this last battle of Cedar Creek alone. 
                  Yes; thus it was, while Charlie's mother had deep cause for gratitude for her child being spared, how many mothers must mourn their loved sons, who now sleep on Southern soil. The heart sickens at the thoughts of the unparalleled sufferings caused by this wicked rebellion! But the sword of justice, we believe, will at last be unsheathed and the instigators of all this will meet the punishment due their crimes, which are of the most heinous kind! "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay, saith the Lord." 
                  But we digress. Charlie's mother had written Charlie, and apprised him of the great loss he had sustained by his dear father's death, but he received the sad news just before that dreadful battle of Cedar Creek, and the excitement consequent on an expected conflict gave him but little time to grieve; indeed, it hardly seemed a reality to him as yet, so great was the commotion, and so intense the suffering around him. He did not, could not, realize his loss, until favored with a time of more repose and quiet. 
                  The widow sat holding the letter in her hand, thinking; yes, thinking of past years-now sunk in oblivion. 
                  She could look back through the vista of time and recall many scenes, both sad and joyful, in which she had been a participator; and when it was no sin to think of and to love the writer of that letter. Alas! how many and how great the changes that had transpired since she had seen the writer of it! 
                   
                  What caused that crimson blush to overspread her cheeks, as she thought of one who claimed a nearer relationship to him than friend? Was it wrong? Yes, she must fight against the least "appearance of evil,"-the least approach to any disloyal thoughts,-and to place her mind again on that one who had so recently been laid beneath the green mound-a few moments and she was all right again. She had gained an ascendancy over all disloyal or evil thoughts, and taking her pen-that same gold pen which Charlie had presented her just before leaving for the war, she sat down to write to Charlie, sending it "to the care of Rev. Horace Bentley." 
                  We will here remark, before proceeding further, that the widow Leslie had never learned of Horace's wife's death-but viewed him in the light of a married man,-thus arose those strong efforts of mind to banish him entirely from her thoughts, after he had thus unexpectedly arisen to her view. 
                   
                  "Here, Bridget, take this letter to the office without delay, as I wish, if possible, to have it go out in to-day's mail," said the widowed mother to her domestic, when she had finished penning her letter to her boy. 
                  "An', mam, is master Charlie well?" asked Bridget, as she hastened to put on her shawl and bonnet, preparatory to the execution of her mistress's command. 
                  "Charlie is wounded, Bridget,-but hasten, don't delay," replied the widow. 
                  "An' sure is he m'm? I'm just as sorry as I can live! Poor Charlie! I wish ould Jeff Davis was hanged! murthuring all our dear boys," said the warm-hearted daughter of Erin, as she left the house and proceeded to the post-office, murmuring anathemas, as she trudged along, against all of "them as brought on the war." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                   
                     Mrs. Clarissa Rydon finds her old friend Lillie-Lillie's revenge-Clarissa's mournful death-Charlie meets Clara-Falls in love. 
                   
                  A FEW days subsequent to the events of our preceding chapter, as widow Leslie sat silently knitting by her lonely fireside-no companion save "Malta," who lay quietly by the stove of her mistress, now and then "washing her face and paws," as the feline race are accustomed to do,-the door was abruptly thrown open, and Bridget, with hair dishevelled, and sleeves rolled up-just from dish-washing, entered the room, and with all the earnestness and warmth of the raw emigrant from "Erin," broke out: "M'm, an' who is it in the kitchen a-kapin me company, but a half-starved, sick-lookin' cratur,-nasty as the pigs, too, savin' your presence, 'm,-and I thought how as you was a kind sowl, 'm, maybe you wo'd give her a sup to eat: for she looked so wishful like when I cleared away the table, that I am sure she is hungry." What she might have said further is unknown, for the widow had suffered too much herself to be insensible to the wants of any fellow creature: and motioning her domestic back to the kitchen, she arose and followed her. 
                  Truly there was a sight of sorrow and suffering-perhaps shame.
                   
                  A woman, perhaps thirty-two years of age, and thinly clad, sat holding out her gloveless hands to the kitchen fire, to imbibe what warmth she could from its genial glow-now and then putting her hand to her head, as though in pain. 
                  The widow saw that she was in a feeble state of health; which unfitted her to proceed farther, that night at least. She therefore set about trying to make her comfortable: first, gave her a glass of nice currant wine, which was followed by a plate of toast, and a dish of fragrant green tea. 
                  She insisted on the strange woman remaining with her till better-remembering that "whosoever giveth even a cup of cold water unto one of these, shall not lose his reward." 
                   
                  The family retired early, and the hostess had not closed her eyes in slumber, when she was aroused by moaning from the room occupied by the stranger. She hastily arose, and partially dressing herself, she repaired to the room referred to; where she found the woman very ill. A physician was immediately summoned, and ere the rising of the sun in the east, a new life was ushered into existence. But notwithstanding she had the best of medical care and nursing; for the widow had installed herself chief nurse,-she gradually sank. And the physician frankly told her that she could not live many days; so that if she had any desire as to the future of her babe-or any messages for friends, she had better arrange matters soon. 
                  The poor widow desired to have the kind hostess summoned,-as she had left her in the care of Bridget, in order to get a few brief moments of repose. She obeyed the summons, and on re-entering the room, the sick woman desired to be left alone a short time with the widow, that they might converse undisturbed. 
                  The physician took his hat and overcoat, and took leave-saying he would "call in again before fore evening:" and as all the rest withdrew, those two were left alone. 
                  The sick woman looked intently in the widow's face, and while tears of true repentance chased each other down those pale, wan cheeks, began: "You were once Lillie Ray: I see you don't recognize me-I, who so deeply wronged you: I am Clarissa Bentley! I don't wonder you look amazed, to see me the wreck I now am. I was proud! wickedly proud! and God has punished me for my pride and my sins: I must soon die: can you forgive me the wrong I did you and Horace?" 
                  The widow listened spell-bound to this revelation! Could it be possible, that this wreck of a once beautiful woman, was the once gay and haughty Clarissa! The sick woman continued: "Say that I am forgiven: tell me that you will care for my poor babe, who will soon be an orphan-and I die content." 
                  Mrs. Leslie could hardly credit her senses, as she gazed with eyes of love and tenderness, on that feeble, sinking creature before her; still as she watched more narrowly those features, she could discern the faded expression of her who was once the gay Clarissa Bentley. And with a heart filled with pity, she told the poor creature, she had her free forgiveness-and she hoped she would seek the forgiveness of Him before whom she must soon appear. In token of forgiveness, she reached down, and implanted on those once beautiful cheeks-a kiss. "Thank you," was feebly answered in gratitude from the sufferer's lips. 
                  On further conversation being resumed, Mrs. Rydon unfolded to her old friend "Lillie," as she insisted on still calling her, something of her past life, fully exemplifying the words of holy writ: "Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall." 
                  It was the old story, of marrying an unprincipled man like George Rydon, who, as soon as beauty began to fade, his boasted love waned also. He first became a frequenter of drinking clubs; then a gambler, and though he sometimes won, still he much more frequently lost; and one day after having lost heavily, accused his comrade of unfairness; a quarrel ensued, and he received a mortal blow on his head. 
                   
                  She was left with very small means, and among strangers. Driven to desperation, and by nature nearly as unprincipled as her husband had been, Clarissa had lived a disreputable life; until at last, finding consumption seating itself on her system, she resolved to endeavor to reach her fathers and seek their forgiveness if possible. But the long journey and exposure to bad weather proved too much for her, and on reaching the little town of Glen Arbor, where she had found by inquiry Mrs. Leslie resided, had resolved to seek shelter for the night "incog.," and in the morning resume her toilsome journey. Hot scalding tears chased each other down the cheeks of the widow as she listened to the sad recital. And O, how earnestly did she labor to save her old girlhood's companion; she could hardly be called old friend. 
                  But the cruel spoiler had set his mark upon her, and no love or kindness could save her. A quick consumption took her to "that bourne from whence no traveler returns." She sent kind messages to her friends, if Lillie should chance to ever meet them, and inform them of her sad fate; and her babe was compassionately adopted by the widow, who thought this would be a "glorious revenge" for past ill-usage in her girlhood days. 
                  She died to appearance a true penitent, and in hopes of a blissful immortality. She was respectably interred, and a plain white slab now marks the spot where sleeps the once gay Clarissa Bentley. 
                  The babe was fondly cared for; but he had inherited his mother's disease, and little Horace was soon laid by the side of his mother. 
                  Here was food for much sad reflection; and often, as the widow strolled out to meditate and weep by the side of her deceased husband's grave, would she often also visit the grave of Mrs. Rydon, and shed tears over her untimely fate, as she thought within herself-"who hath made me to differ?" 
                   
                  We will pass swiftly over a few weeks. Spring has come and gone, and summer in all her splendor is arrayed in gorgeous colors. Battles have been fought, and many fields have been crimsoned with the best blood of our land; but the end is not yet. O, when will this dreadful tide of death and bloodshed be stopped, and our boys be permitted to return to their homes? 
                         
                           "O, where is my boy to-night? 
                           For I know that the strife has begun; 
                           That many have fallen in fight, 
                           And a glorious victory won! 
                           Does he sleep 'neath the sod with the slain? 
                           Has his proud form given its breath? 
                           O, God! is my boy with the slain? 
                           Who would only yield to death? 
                           How proud was his step when he went, 
                           And deep was the gleam of his eye; 
                           And we knew what that young heart felt, 
                           As he faltering said-'good bye.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  We will now introduce our readers to a party who have just left the cars, and are seating themselves in a sitting-room belonging to a first-class hotel in the little inland town of Newport, Wis. 
                  First among the group we notice our Charlie. And there, conversing in the corner of the room, is Rev. Mr. Bentley. Besides there are several soldiers returning home on a furlough, and others, civilians, some of them traveling, and some who just dropped in to talk with those returning soldiers. 
                   
                  The Chaplain was the only one who had arrived at his desired haven-home. Charlie and all the others had some distance to travel yet before reaching their homes. 
                  The door gently opens, and a young lady of sweet, fascinating manners, accompanied by an elderly man, to appearance a clerical gentleman, enters the sitting room. "Father!" and "Clara!" were the simultaneous exclamations by parent and daughter, as they greeted each other warmly. "Mr. Leslie, allow me to present to you my daughter Clara;" "Clara, Mr. Leslie-a very dear friend of mine," said Mr. Bentley, leading Clara forward to where Charlie was sitting. At mention of "Clara," a thought of that "pocket-wife," letter accompanying it, etc., rushed into Charlie's mind; and Clara, no less bewildered at mention of "Charlie," strove to push back the thoughts which would intrude, and with true courtesy stepped forward, and giving her hand to the blushing Charlie, said: "I am truly happy to meet any one of my country's brave defenders-but I also regret, Mr. Leslie, to see the fruits of this terrible conflict in one so young," glancing as she spoke to the partially healed wound in that beautiful and noble forehead. 
                  Charlie was thrown completely off his guard, but tried to greet her as courteously as he could in so embarrassed a state of mind. 
                  The reader has no doubt anticipated the minister accompanying Clara to be no other than Rev. Mr. Requa, the friend of her father, where she had been staying. 
                  Charlie had intended taking the evening train and reach Glen Arbor, that evening, but the warm solicitations of Rev. Mr. Requa prevailed, and he consented to remain at Newport, a guest of the clergyman, until a little recruited, meanwhile writing to apprize his mother of his whereabouts and convalescence. 
                  Perhaps, indeed, Charlie was not after all so very loth to know more of his Chaplain's lovely daughter, though he could hardly be detained from his mother now he was so near her. At the house of Mr. Requa, it is needless to say, he was heartily welcomed by all the family. 
                  That same evening of his arrival, he penned a letter to his mother, informing her he should "be home in a few days;" and as he closed his loving epistle, he added a P. S. to the following effect: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "P.S. The Chaplain has been so very kind to me, mother; and as he will return to the army when I do, I wish you could make it convenient to permit me to invite him and his daughter to take a trip up to Glen Arbor. I want much he should see our pretty home; and I know he would not come without his daughter, as his stay at home will be so short. May I invite them? 
                              
                                 CHARLIE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                  Charlie's visit to the parsonage was productive of something more than mere friendship. It was the old story which our first parent whispered to the fair Eve in the lovely Garden of Eden, ere sin had blighted this fair earth-the song of love. Charlie and Clara Bentley were congenial spirits, and ere they were aware of it, they loved sincerely, truly. They were both young in years, but their minds were far beyond their years- Charlie being in his eighteenth year, and Clara only sixteen. 
                   
                  "Will you give her to me?" tremblingly asked Charlie on the morning in which they were to start for Glen Arbor, as he and his Chaplain were seated alone in Charlie's room. It was a bold move for so young a boy; but Charlie had a brave heart, and he had found, he thought, the embodiment of perfection in his lovely Clara. 
                  "You are both young," replied the chaplain, who, however, had been expecting just such a denouement; but if you will wait a year or two-till your return from the army, for instance, and you can get Clara's consent to the affair," said he, laughing, "you have my free and full consent, Charlie; and may heaven bless you both. Clara is the dearest treasure I have on earth-but you are very dear also, my boy. Believe me, Charlie, there is not another one of my acquaintances to whom I would willingly yield my precious Clara, but you." 
                   
                  Charlie pressed the Chaplain's hand warmly in token of gratitude, but his heart was too full to speak. 
                  A few minutes after this, the whistle sounded, and our party of three hastened to the cars which were to convey them to Glen Arbor. 
                  Several days previous to this, Charlie had received a letter from his mother, containing a permission-aye, more than that, an urgent request-"for those friends of his, who had been so kind to him, to accompany him to her humble home." She should "feel happy to entertain any of Charlie's friends," she wrote. 
                  "The cars are coming, mam," said Bridget, running in to widow Leslie's room. She thought the widow had not heard the whistle, so she had left Brindle only half milked, to tell "Miss Leslie Charlie was come." 
                  But the steam whistle has been heard: and oh, what joy! she should see Charlie once more! Was it a reality? She almost feared it was only a dream. Contending emotions agitate Charlie's mind also, as the train draws near his loved home. No beloved father would be there to greet him-no 
                   
                  Truly all our joys are mixed with pain. No happiness unalloyed in this world: but in every cup of joy we find dregs of sorrow at the bottom. It is well to be thus. It reconciles us to leave this world of care for a world where happiness is unalloyed! All our tears are there wiped away, and we can roam over those elysian fields and shout praises "to Him who hath redeemed us." 
                  But to return. Let us draw a veil over the meeting that evening: the scene is too sacred. Suffice it to say, all retired at a seasonable hour, to rest, and to ponder, and wonder over the freaks of fate-or the wonders of a divine providence, in thus bringing together those assembled in that house. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                   
                     Horace's visit to his old friend Lillie-Asks her hand in marriage-Is met by reproach-An explanation-The wedding-News of our president's assassination. 
                   
                  FOR one week happiness had reigned at the Glen, although not unmixed with sadness; for Charlie had wept bitter tears over his dear father's grave, which he had visited in company with his lovely Clara; while she, angel as she was, endeavored to point him to that blest clime where a re-union with friends will be made far more sweet by a knowledge that we shall never part more. O, blessed state of immortality! 
                  And the chaplain had also shed bitter tears when Lillie (as he had insisted on calling Mrs. Leslie) led him to the tomb of his once loved Clarissa, and with as much palliation as possible, recounted to him her sad story. She was now gone, never to meet her dear brother until the day of final accounts. He had written to her often, but for many months previous had received no reply to his letters. 
                  How he longed to clasp to his heart her who had so generously given her shelter and smoothed her dying pillow. But Lillie, supposing him to be the husband of another, had maintained so dignified and deferential a deportment towards him, that when something more than gratitude would rise to his lips, her distant manner put a seal upon them-and he could only thank her for her kindness to his deceased sister. 
                  Bridget had been a sharer in their joy also, for "dear Charlie had come home once more;" and her culinary knowledge was put to the test to bring to the table of her mistress as well cooked dishes as her untiring efforts were capable of. She even spent some time examining her cook book-something she was much averse to-in order that Charlie should fare well while at home; "for he had lived on hard tack long enough, an' shure he had a right to have a dacent bit now," said our warm-hearted girl of Erin. 
                  The morning was a lovely one, but a cloud hung over our domestic circle, for another bitter separation must soon take place; the chaplain and Charley must the ensuing week return to the army. 
                  Charley and Clara had been out riding, and Clara had gone up to her room to lay aside her riding habit; while Charley was performing the service of a groom, and caressing his ponies for the pleasure they had afforded him and his dear Clara. Rev. Mr. Bentley had been to the post-office and had just returned to the sitting-room-but where was the widow? She was absent-even the ever faithful Bridget did not know where. "Had she not seen her go out?" was the inquiry. "The last I saw of 'Miss' Leslie, she sat looking at the pictur of her dead husband, and cryin' as if her heart would bust; an' shure I'd not be the ondacint body to disturb her, so I jist come right off and left her to her own sorrow-poor body!" Horace heard no more; but took his hat, and with a firm resolution to obtain a promise of her hand as soon as he returned from the war, went in search of her. He had thought, from her dignified and even distant manner towards him, that perhaps she was not aware of his wife's death; at least he would solve the problem of her coldness. 
                  He found her in the orchard, sitting beneath a beautiful apple-tree, silently musing, while traces of tears were still visible on her pale cheeks. A book lay open in her lap, but she seemed in a deep, mournful reverie. He approached cautiously and silently, and as he gazed on that sad face it had never seemed half so lovely. Youth and beauty had flown with time; but a beauty of soul beaming forth from that expressive face visibly portrayed victory over foes within, and triumph even over sorrow. The soul was still beautiful. Horace made a mis-step-our heroine started. Horace, taking advantage of her momentary surprise, gently stooped and kissed those lips he had once loved to kiss so well. "Lillie, allow me to be to you a friend-aye, more than a friend." The widow's true sense of propriety took alarm at once; and arising proudly-coldly-and turning upon him a look of deep reproach, with the single word "Horace!" turned to go to the house. 
                  Horace, more than ever convinced of her mistake, forcibly detained her: "Stay one moment, dear Lillie." An explanation followed; it was as he had thought-she had looked upon him as the husband of another; and when the truth at last forced itself upon her mind-could she believe it? Was there now no obstacle to impede their happiness? No-now she might love without sin! Her cup of joy was now full, and she came near fainting. Horace placed her on a green mound close at hand, while he went to the house for a glass of water, which soon restored her. 
                  But she insisted on his waiting for her "at least one year," ere she allowed another to fill the position of him whom she had lost. In that idea she thought she was right; and, if in the right, she would be firm also. After one year had passed, if her life was spared, she would then be his. 
                  Horace thought he could wait, if then he could gain that precious boon his soul had ever coveted. Their cup of joy was now nearly full, although much subdued by sad thoughts of loved and lost ones. 
                  "Charlie tells me he thinks of re-enlisting for another year, as you are aware his term of service will have expired in a few weeks after his return to the army, and he is offered the position of drum-major, if he will accept it, and remain in the service another year," continued Horace; "and now what say you, dear Lillie, to his taking Clara for a wife, on his return from the army; he spoke to me on the subject while at brother Requa's, and my consent is already gained; now your opinion must also be taken into consideration." 
                  Widow Leslie sat thoughtfully a few moments, and then replied: 
                  "They are both young-quite young-to take upon themselves the cares of a married life; still, they are both possessed of minds in advance of their years; and, as I certainly cannot have the slightest objection to Clara, who has already stolen too much of my affections during her brief stay with me, I shall be truly thankful that Charlie has made so wise a choice; for I had feared he might form some unhappy attachment, which, to a sensitive mind like his, would be a blow lasting, and the wound deep. Still, if they are to be married, Horace, on his return from the army, why would it be anything inconsistent for the ceremony to be performed before leaving again, which step would place them in a position before the world, that in case of illness or wounds, he could have the consolation of sending for her, and she the pleasure of going to him, without incurring the censures of a gossiping world?" Horace listened attentively, while Lillie continued: "It is an old proverb, but a true one, that 'circumstances alter cases;' and I should deem it a matter of wisdom to give him a legal right to secure her attendance in case of need; and also, by being his wife, she would secure to herself the State bounty for support in his absence. 
                  The chaplain sat a few moments silent and thoughtful; then, with a new light in his eye, said:-"The last mentioned motive for hastening the ceremony-pecuniary motives-is of minor importance, as I am abundantly able to furnish all she requires for comfort or ease; but the first idea you mentioned has far more weight with me, dear Lillie. No doubt the little scamp will jump at the suggestion of securing his bird so soon, if I mention it to him." 
                  "But," added he, with a quiet smile wreathing those beautiful features, so calm when in repose, -"if it would be a matter of wisdom in Charlie's case to have the marriage ceremony performed previous to his return to the army, in order that Clara might with propriety visit him in case of wounds or illness, why not a matter of wisdom in our case also, dear Lillie?" implanting a kiss on that snowy forehead as he concluded. A crimson flush overspread the widow's cheeks as she sat pondering on the idea contained in the last remark, and at last gently said: "I would like a few hours to decide in;" which request was freely granted. 
                  The chaplain sought Charlie, and communicated to his too willing ears the subject of his last conversation concerning him and Clara; and then, taking him by the hand, led him to where Clara was arranging a fresh bouquet for her favorite vase, while she hummed in sweet, gentle accents, "Yes, we miss thee at home, etc." 
                  She started quickly at this intrusion, and arose to place seats for the welcome intruders, blushing deeply. 
                  "See what arrangements you and Clara can make," said he, as he turned and left the room, with a merry twinkle in his black eyes.  
                   
                  At tea that evening, but few words passed between the friends who were so soon to separate again, and all seemed to feel a sort of quiet solemnity pervading their minds in view of the important matter now under consideration; and after the cloth was removed they assembled in the family sitting room and chatted, and alternately read aloud, till the hour for retiring arrived, where we will leave them for awhile. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                   
                     Servant's gossip-The two weddings-President Lincoln's assassination-A nation in sorrow. 
                   
                  IT was one of those lovely mornings when nature seems to fairly outdo herself; everything seemed so radiant with loveliness. Even the birds of the forest seemed to vie with each other to see whose notes should be the loudest, and sound sweetest. 
                  It was on such a morning as this, one week after the circumstances narrated in our last chapter, that great preparations were being made to entertain company at the hitherto quiet cottage of Widow Leslie. Bridget, the ever faithful maid of all work, with ruddy cheeks and rolled up sleeves, was just sitting down to assist some extra help in hulling some large fine, strawberries just from the vines, and which were designed for dessert after dinner, that the following bit of gossip took place. 
                  "Ain't you sorra to have Miss Leslie get married Bridget, and that dear Charlie too?" 
                   
                  "An shure, it does seem a change about-as the house was allers quiet like-but I tell you Peggy, he is a rale fine gintleman, that Mr. Bentley is, and he thinks a heap on her, I tell you; now Peg Donahue, can you kape a sacret?" 
                  "Wall, now Bridget, if I can't kape a sacret, thin my name ain't Peggy Donahue," said Peggy, as she dropped her work, and sat listening with all the curiosity of our first mother. 
                  "Don't stop hulling strawberries, Peg, for I spects ivery minit whin the priest will come, and we must have the strawberries and cream for dessert you know; Oh, wont it be delishus!" said she, warming up at the thought of the many good things they were to have for dinner. 
                  "I was only goin' to say, Peg, that I half 'spects Mr. Bentley is some old swateheart of Missis, for she looked so red and quare like, when Charley intaduced him; you can't fool Bridget, and everybody allers thought how Missis had some hard thruble, she looked so mournful like; but, mind now, this is a dead sacret, Peg. And as for Charley, why, Miss Clara is one of the blissidest and swatest craters in the world; you niver seed a purtier crater in your born days; may the blissid Virgin be wid 'em." 
                  A sound of carriage wheels put a check to the two servants' gossip, and as they looked up at the window, they espied a covered carriage, drawn by two cream-colored steeds, and presently a clerical gentleman alighted, and assisted a lady to alight also, from the carriage. They were warmly welcomed by Horace, Clara, and Charlie; after which Horace presented his future bride to "an old friend-Rev. Mr. Requa and lady." 
                  The greeting over, they repaired to the sitting-room; where a short time was spent in social converse. A few intimate friends had been invited, and as they began to assemble Lillie retired to dress. 
                  The wedding was to be a quiet one, befitting all the circumstances attendant; also the bleeding state of our suffering country rendered it unsuitable to indulge in too much joy, when so many were pouring out their heart's blood in defence of the government, and thousands more were mourning by lonely hearth-stones, made desolate by the sacrifice of the "light of that home," sacrificed on their country's altar;-and said Lillie to Horace, "let our joy be a subdued joy-ever bearing in mind the suffering thousands in camp, in hospital, and on the battle-field." 
                  Lillie was arrayed in deep mourning,-with only a fresh blown rose entwined among her glossy ringlets,-while another served as brooch, and fastened her plain linen collar. Such was her bridal costume, for she would not lay aside the mourning she had put on for him who had so recently been laid in the silent tomb; no, she would retain it, out of respect for the deceased, and the roses, she said, were "emblematical of the new joy which was just blossoming in her heart, so long barren and fruitless." "A queer bridal attire-dressed in black!" I fancy I hear some fair Miss in her teens reply, as she peruses these pages. Very true! Such an attire on a bridal day would not certainly be in conformity with conventionalism; but we must remember our heroine was now past the hey-day of youth; besides her path had been a by-way hedged with thorns which pierced her to the heart and let us not judge too harshly if she desired their joy to be not only "subdued" but almost solemn. But see; a holy light lights up that once beautiful face, as she gently raises those eyes to him who had in years agone so often spoken of their witchery; and surely she is not unhappy, if she is arrayed in black. Unhappy-no! She is now just perceiving that "silver lining" which has lain underneath the dark cloud of sorrow so many long years-just now beginning to throw out its silvery beams. And is the bridegroom happy? Let your own hearts answer. He has found his long-lost-long-lamented pearl; henceforth it shall be worn near his heart in the peaceful embrace of holy love. 
                  Clara was dressed more in accordance with youthful gaiety, though simple and plain. She was arrayed in white-while roses in all their beauty bespangled her dress-skirt, and were interwoven in her beautiful tresses. 
                  She was a lovely gem-and well might Charlie feel proud of his prize. 
                   
                   
                  The day following the nuptials, Mrs. Bentley, apologizing to the company in the sitting-room, quietly withdrew to that green spot where lay in silent unconsciousness of passing events, he whom she had for the last eighteen years clung to, as the vine clings around the towering oak, there to indulge in meditation and solemn reflections. Her thoughts were very solemn; for although she had not loved Mr. Leslie with all the fervor and enthusiasm of a first love, still she had come to view him with feelings akin to love, and to feel deeply, and grieve sincerely at his death. For he had been in the main a kind companion, and she had spent many peaceful, if not happy, hours in his agreeable society. The great disparity of years between them, and the still greater difference in their temperaments-Mrs. Leslie sensitive to a fault, while her husband was just the reverse-had at times caused feelings of coolness, and marked hostility between them; but those times of domestic disunion had grown less frequent; until at last their domestic peace was unruffled by any discordant note; and the dove of peace had a gentle resting place at their fireside. Would to heaven it had ever been thus! 
                   
                  She staid in that hallowed place, enjoying one of her meditative moods, until aroused by the breaking of a twig near her. She arose-a strong manly arm encircled her form, and a kiss of pure, holy affection was imprinted on those lips. 
                  "I suppose we must be away early in the morning," said Horace, as he drew her still closer to him, "in order to meet the evening train in proper time." 
                  "Everything is packed-and Bridget will have breakfast betimes," answered Mrs. Bentley:-"I wonder where Clara and Charlie are going!" said she, pointing to those two happy beings, as they struck across a meadow near by, arm in arm. 
                   
                  "All aboard!" sings out a lusty voice, and our little family party are fast being conveyed by the power of steam on their way to ---, where Horace and Charlie were to return to their regiments, and the ladies to return again to Glen Arbor, where Clara would cheer the lonely hours of Mrs. Bentley by her innocent pleasantry, and in turn be kindly cared for by her "dear new mother," as Clara playfully called her. Horace had been silently gazing from a car window when suddenly he turned to his wife and requested her to notice the next station, just now appearing in view; "It is draped in mourning. Who can be gone-can it be Grant, or Sherman, that such national sorrow is manifested? God forbid!" said Horace; as all eyes were anxiously peering out to see the sad sight, and their cheeks blanched with fear for the fate of our armies. 
                  "Want an extra?" asked a ragged little urchin, holding up to Mr. Bentley a paper, and receiving in return his penny, while passengers were leaving and re-filling the cars at the station. 
                  Horace ran his eyes down the "telegraph news" column, and with ashen face, handed the paper to his wife, while the words, "Oh, my God!" escaped his lips. 
                  Mrs. Bentley took the paper, and read aloud:-"The President was shot last night, at Ford's Theatre, while in his box, by some cowardly assassin, who immediately made his escape, flourishing a weapon, and crying out "Sic semper tyrannis!" 
                   
                  Mute consternation sat on every countenance, as with a trembling voice she continued; "Later:-Secretary Seward also was assassinated at the same hour by a different person, in his chamber. Is just alive." 
                  "Oh, my country! my country!" groaned Bentley, while every one sat aghast. "Why does not the sword of vengeance leap from its scabbard and cut down the wicked traitors, or fire from heaven consume them!" "Vengeance is mine and I will repay it, saith the Lord," added Rev. Mr. Requa, who remained silent through this terrible announcement. 
                  A deep solemnity pervaded all on the cars, as they passed one station after another, and on looking out saw the habiliments of mourning on every prominent building, and even many private dwellings were draped in black; while in little knots or clubs, men could be seen at every street corner, with mournful countenance discussing this one great dread topic. 
                  And now while our whole nation is convulsed with a general sorrow-such sorrow as no pen can ever even attempt to portray-for the great, the good, the wise, and just Abraham Lincoln has fallen by the hand of an assassin:-while the sable curtain of grief envelopes our whole nation, and every true heart throbs with untold grief-at this important time, the writer of this narrative and the reader of it will bid adieu, for a season at least. She earnestly hopes that those who peruse these pages, will ever bear in mind the two important truths she has tried to keep in view:-to wit, it is always safe to trust in God. Also-beneath every dark cloud there always lies hidden "a silver lining." 
                
             
             
                
               THE STEP-MOTHER. 
               BY MRS. LESLIE. 
                
                  Speak gently to that toil-worn one. 
                  Whose heart is sad and lone, 
                  As memory lingers o'er the scenes 
                  Of joyous hours flown: 
                
                
                  Of hours when health glowed on her cheek- 
                  When love her pathway strewed 
                  With sweet affection's fragrant flowers, 
                  And hope's bright streamlet flowed. 
                
                
                  Respect those tears of anguish, now, 
                  Which from her eyelids course- 
                  As heavily heaves her youthful breast 
                  With grief's most bitter throes! 
                
                
                  She fain would rule the "orphan's home" 
                  With sympathy and love- 
                  And train those dear bereaved ones 
                  For those bright realms above:- 
                
                
                  But they reject her winsome voice, 
                  They treat her with disdain- 
                  They put to flight her purest joys, 
                  And strew her path with pain. 
                
                
                
                  She sees her kindest efforts vain, 
                  By many falsely viewed- 
                  And oft-the purest motives are 
                  Most basely misconstrued. 
                
                
                  Dost wonder then that heart is riven, 
                  The star of hope has flown, 
                  And she in silent sadness sits 
                  So pensively alone? 
                
                
                  Then speak one gentle, soothing word, 
                  Unto that lonely one- 
                  And you will reap a rich reward, 
                  Bestowed by God's Dear Son." 
                
               
                  GLEN ARBOR, Wis., May 18th, 1860.
                
             
             
               Musings on the Death of Mrs. Judson. 
               THE HOPIA TREE. 
                
                  The lone "Hopia Tree," a sad tale it doth tell; 
                  For 'neath it reposes one who murmured farewell 
                  To her childhood's loved home, and all that was dear, 
                  To suffer and toil in the missionary sphere. 
                
                
                  Pass lightly, ye zephyrs, around this lone tree,- 
                  For here she lies sleeping-in repose let her be; 
                  A ministering angel to him who alone 
                  Must weep by her grave-now with moss overgrown. 
                
                
                  She is slumbering now, but soon she'll arise, 
                  To welcome her beloved, ascending the skies; 
                   
                  Hark! hear that soft whisper-so sweetly it comes- 
                  "Cease all thy repining-my spirit has flown 
                
                
                  To those angelic regions, where a crown is prepared, 
                  To envelop each brow of the redeemed of the Lord. 
                  Be calm and submissive-let sorrow all flee- 
                  As you visit my grave 'neath the 'Hopia tree.' 
                
                
                  Let no cypress nor yew throw a shade o'er her grave- 
                  But evergreen be love's offerings-which o'er her do wave; 
                  As in sad meditation, so lonely, will he 
                  Kneel down by the grave 'neath the 'Hopia Tree.'" 
                
               
                  GLEN ARBOR, Wis.
                
             
             
               THE BROKEN HEART. 
                
                  Oh, how sink those cruel words upon that isolated 
                  Heart! That heart which once could boast a path 
                  Bestrewn with flowers of variegated hue, and sweetly 
                  Sail on love's calm sea, and from affection's fount quench 
                  All her thirst. 
                  But now-at ev'ry step she meets the 
                  Thorns of scorn and sharp rebuke! But list!-A 
                  Soft and gentle whisper greets her ear-"There is love in 
                  Heaven-love without alloy!" 
                
                
                  Art thou adamant, vile, polluted man? Behold that care-worn 
                  Face, now pale and wan with suffering and grief! 
                  A heavenly smile doth wreath that beauteous brow, 
                  And in those soft, expressive beams we trace the heavenly words- 
                  "I will forgive him!" 
                
                
                
                  Fain would she be thy guardian 
                  Spirit-and fondly cling to thee and none beside-and 
                  Ever and anon bestrew thy path with flowers:-and 
                  Strive by some attractive charm to cheer each lonely hour. 
                  But no! You spurn her from your side! you, who have 
                  Pledged, "to love and to protect" are not content-until you 
                  Rend asunder, one by one, each tendril of her heart! 
                  And hasten her to death's dark door, and you are 
                  Free! Come, will you strew her grave with flowers? 
                
                
                  Months have passed-and 
                  She is gone! Approach not that sacred mound, vile one; 
                  For innocence lies there! And thou didst never know, or prize, 
                  The truth, the loveliness and worth of that lone one who vainly 
                  Clung to thee for sympathy! 
                  Methinks a stain more dark than that of Cain, must e'er enshroud 
                  Thy brow, and deep remorse gnaw ever at thy heart! For day by day, 
                  You added cold neglect unto abuse-until she sank-a crushed,
                   
                  
                     Withered flower!
                   
                
                
                  That gentle being loved you, fondly as ever woman lov'd!-she 
                  Was thy wife:-but no!-methinks that sacred name should 
                  Ne'er be coupled with abuse! 
                  She was beloved by all; and oft will genius and virtue 
                  Hand in hand, go seek her lonely grave, and plant unfading 
                  Evergreens, and amaranthine flowers 'round her tomb, and 
                  Shed a tear of love and pity there! 
                  And thou wilt miss the happy smile 
                  Which lit her brow-as when her listening 
                  Ear, quick caught the sound of him she lov'd- 
                  And strove to make him welcome!- 
                  That melody of voice!-I hear it 
                   
                  Still:-all, all is gone! 
                  Oh, would to heaven she had met 
                  With one of finer mould!-then their 
                  Congenial spirits would in unison 
                  Have shone, with meteoric splendor! 
                
             
             
               MY ANGEL BOY. 
                
                  Three years have flown by, since thou wert laid in the grave, 
                  Where the zephyrs play,-and green boughs wave,- 
                  Where wild flow'rets bloom, and the songster's sweet lays 
                  Ascend like sweet anthems in volumes of praise. 
                
                
                  No cypress or yew shall shadow thy grave, 
                  But love's offerings, "evergreen," shall over thee wave, 
                  My favorite tree-the rose in full bloom, 
                  With sweet-scented odor waves over thy tomb. 
                
                
                  The violet, too, with its meek, lowly head, 
                  In modesty tells that my loved one is dead! 
                  In unrivalled beauty, the brilliant moss-rose, 
                  O'er the grave of my angel-boy loveliness throws. 
                
                
                  Friends call me "too pensive"-"too sad"-and "too lone"- 
                  But how can I smile when Johnnie is gone? 
                  But hush these repinings-he's sweetly at rest, 
                  And calmly reposing on Jesus' breast, 
                
                
                  I visit the grave-that cherished place! 
                  I kneel on the turf, to pray for more grace 
                  To make me submissive to Heaven's decree, 
                  And in my sore chastening, Divine love to see. 
                
               
                  GLEN ARBOR, Wis., Oct., 17th, 1850.
                
             
             
                
               AN INFANT'S GRAVE. 
               BY MRS. LESLIE. 
                
                  They buried him from my sight, 
                  'Neath the green tree, 
                  'Neath the green tree: 
                  He now is an angel of light, 
                  Tuning his lyre, 
                  Tuning his lyre: 
                  Where the lone breeze fitfully plays- 
                  'Mid high spreading branches and leaves; 
                  Enshrouded, the "casket" there lies, 
                  Mouldering away, 
                  Mouldering away: 
                
                
                  The "jewel" no longer is there, 
                  No longer is there, 
                  No longer is there: 
                  For Jesus hath taken it home, 
                  Sweetly to rest, 
                  Sweetly to rest: 
                  But that freed spirit shall burst the bands that enclose it; 
                  When Gabriel's trump shall sound from afar:- 
                  And with angelic anthems enter Heaven's high dome, 
                  Heaven's high dome, 
                  Heaven's high dome. 
                
                
                  That sweet form now lies 'neath the green, grassy mound, 
                  Arrayed in death's robes, 
                  Arrayed in death's robes; 
                  While the sweet scented rose blooms over his tomb, 
                  Over his tomb, 
                  Over his tomb. 
                   
                  A smiling cherub, clothed in white, 
                  Irradiated with celestial light, 
                  Sweetly rest, on Jesus' breast-my dove! 
                
             
             
               THE HAPPY TRIO. 
                
                  Aye; hear what heavenly music, 
                  So sweetly wafts along:- 
                  Filling the Upper Regions 
                  With Redemption's sweetest song. 
                
                
                  
                     Chorus. Oh, that lovely, happy trio, 
                  How sweetly they do sing, 
                  The everlasting praises, 
                  Of Jesus Christ our King. 
                
                
                  Oh, that lovely, happy trio, 
                  How radiant with joy; 
                  Those features now are beaming, 
                  No sin can now annoy! 
                
                
                  Aye, first, an aged Sire; 
                  Arrayed in glorious light; 
                  His robe-Oh, how celestial! 
                  He is robed in spotless white. 
                
                
                  
                     Chorus. Oh, that lovely, happy trio, 
                  How sweetly they do sing, 
                  The everlasting praises, 
                  Of Jesus Christ our King! 
                
                
                  Oh, that lovely, happy trio, 
                  How radiant with joy, 
                  Those features now are beaming, 
                  No sin can now annoy! 
                
                
                
                  Next, comes his dear companion; 
                  Her sufferings now are o'er. 
                  She has passed through tribulation; 
                  She'll suffer here no more. 
                  
                     Chorus. Oh, that lovely, happy trio, &c. 
                
                
                  Aye, see! A smiling cherub, 
                  Comes lastly in that train; 
                  His infant lips are lisping 
                  His dear Redeemer's name. 
                  
                     Chorus. Oh, that lovely, happy trio, &c. 
                
                
                  Adieu, loved, happy choir! 
                  I'll join you bye and bye! 
                  We'll tell our triumphs over; 
                  On Canaan's happy plains! 
                  
                     Chorus. Oh, that lovely, happy trio, &c. 
                
             
             
               THE THREE ROSE-LEAVES. 
                
                  I gaze on these tiny rose-leaves three, 
                  Which came in a note from "home;" 
                  Which a lov'd sister plucked for me, 
                  And sent 'cross the whitening foam. 
                
                
                  I'll plant a kiss on these rose-leaves three 
                  Though faded now, and sere; 
                  My sister plucked them from her tree; 
                  On them I'll drop a tear. 
                
                
                  My mother's favorite tree, 
                  A rose-tree in full bloom; 
                   
                  From which were culled these three, 
                  So full of sweet perfume. 
                
                
                  Those violets too, my mother lov'd; 
                  O where, O where are they? 
                  O, why! dear one, not enclose one bud, 
                  And send o'er the whitening spray! 
                
                
                  I'll keep them long to gaze upon; 
                  Mementoes of the past. 
                  They bring to mind those angel ones, 
                  Now mouldering in the dust. 
                
             
             
                
                
               EVA, THE PRAIRIE FLOWER. 
                
                
               EVA, THE PRAIRIE FLOWER. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  IT was a cold, bleak morning in December, 1870, that a pale, care-worn looking female, plainly clad, and one in whose countenance suffering was indelibly written, might be seen with unsteady step, leisurely walking along in the City of Rochester, N. Y., and entering a pawn-broker's shop on F---n street. She timidly, but with the courtesy and bearing of a lady accustomed to good society, addressed the proprietor, a man with black eyes, heavy eye-brows and whiskers, and a countenance which any person at all versed in the science of Psychometry, would readily infer was ready at all times to perform any deed of cruelty or darkness, if by the means he could secure the pleasurable sensation of knowing he had a few more pennies to hoard up for himself; utterly devoid of every quality which tends to make the noble man. 
                  Oh, how we pity such a class of souls! We seem to feel the poisonous influence of the atmosphere surrounding such an one, the moment we enter their presence. 
                  A few rods ahead of the woman, walked a man in middle life, of prepossessing appearance; and taking a cigar from his pocket, lit it, and quietly stepping into the pawn-shop, seated himself in one corner, took a newspaper from his pocket, and was to all appearance soon absorbed in its contents. Yet a keen observer of human nature would have noticed, that several times he cast a wistful, anxious look towards the lady, seemingly anxious to get a view of her features, which were hidden, or partially so, by a thick veil. 
                  The lady referred to took no notice of the presence of a third person, so completely absorbed was she in the object of her call at the shop. 
                   
                  "I am in need," said she to the dark-whiskered man; "will you buy this dress? It is a beautiful silk;" as she unrolled the parcel, displaying to the listener a black silk dress, trimmed with rich lace, and in modern style, looking rich and tasteful. 
                  Her soft voice, tremulous with emotion, sounded strangely familiar to the stranger in the corner; and instantly raising his eyes, he tried in vain to obtain a view of the speaker's face. 
                  Could it be possible? It surely sounded like her voice! but no!-"It cannot be; she, if alive, could never be reduced to such circumstances," pondered the stranger, as he took his hat and left the pawn-shop, only to think and dream of his lost treasure-his idol. 
                  The pawn-broker took the article, and in a harsh, unfeeling manner, said,-"How much do you expect to get for it, madam?" "I paid forty dollars for it; and see, sir, it is hardly soiled; but I need the money very much, and I shall be compelled to let you have it at your own price," said she. "Will you take it, sir?" 
                  Was there not a good angel there then, that knocked loudly at that man's heart, to gain admittance, that he might plant seeds of mercy in the soil, which would in future bring forth the fruit of happiness and joy? But alas! he denied the heavenly visitor admittance, and resolutely barred the door of his heart to mercy's pleadings. 
                  "I do not wish to buy the dress," said he, "but to do you a favor, I will give you $8.00 for it." 
                  The woman crimsoned to the temples, at this gross injustice; and firmly answered; "I need the money very much indeed, but I cannot part with it for so trifling a sum." And after a moment's pause continued-"Will you loan me the $8.00, and I will let you retain the dress as security, and if I can redeem it I will, and if I fail to do so in a few weeks, the dress is yours!" 
                  "I will let you have the $8.00 for two weeks, for $1.00 interest per week, and if you fail to redeem it in that time, why, of course, the dress will be mine." 
                  She assented; took the money handed her by the shopman, and slowly retraced her steps to her boarding place; feeling, as she often had of late, that if she could lie down by the side of her two darling Willies, how thankful she would be! It would be so easy to die!
                   
                  But no! God had spared her life for some purpose. And he had no doubt some work for her to do. And raising to Heaven a silent prayer for submission and strength to suffer without a murmur, she felt such a peace and joy fill her soul, as only one can feel who has that beautiful trust. 
                  "Yes," mused she, "my Father is at the helm," guiding all my affairs for me, and he is too kind, too loving a parent, to put any burden upon me more than I shall receive strength to bear. 
                  It is none of my business to query why he does as he does. Infinite wisdom is at the bottom, and I feel that it is all right. Oh, blessed Saviour, keep me from repining, and make me entirely submissive to thy will." 
                  And musing thus, she entered the house, and paid over the money to her hostess, whose kindness had been very great, and who in this instance at least, had followed our dear Saviour's teaching, where he says,-"Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick and in prison, &c." And our heroine felt that if Mrs. Harlow did not profess to be a Christian, that in that great day of account, the Master would say to her, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, &c." for she had given her food and shelter, when she was too ill to labor; and not grudgingly, but in so sweet and loving a spirit, that surely she would have her reward. 
                  Mrs. Harlow had never asked her for one dollar; but, as she had been in her house some time since she had received any remuneration, a sense of her obligation to her, grew so oppressive, that she resolved to dispose of the best of her wardrobe, retaining only a suit of the plainest apparel. Her beautiful gold watch had already been disposed of, to meet the bills accumulated by a long illness, from which she had never fully recovered. 
                  The tempest was raging fearfully around poor Eva's head, but she felt that when she was sufficiently purified, her Father would take her from the furnace. 
                  Her health was far from good, and many days she was not strong enough to go out at all, while at other times she could walk out and perhaps attend church. But the stern fact stared her in the face that she was homeless! Added to the fact that her small amount of strength was insufficient to earn her living, even could she find some avenue of employment open. Absolute want stared her in the face! The only alternative which lay before her-or starvation, was-an entire dependence on the charity of others for support, unless God in some of his mysterious workings opened a way where she might earn an honorable living. 
                  And, to a refined and sensitive nature, such a position is worse than death! Still she did not dare take that life which God had given. 
                  Before proceeding further with our narrative, we will, in a few brief words, tell our readers who our heroine was, and how she came reduced to such extreme want. 
                  Eva Maynard was the only daughter of parents intellectually rich. And they had instilled into the minds of their children, (Eva had one brother,) principles of true piety; and although Mr. Maynard had not accumulated wealth to any great extent, still he had sufficient for all the usual wants of life; and his was a happy home! 
                   
                  Peace and love cemented the hearts of parents and children, and no word of anger or note of discord was ever heard in Eva's home. Such had been Eva's childhood-all peace and love. 
                  While each morning the well-worn family Bible was taken from its resting place on the shelf and a portion of its sacred pages read, all knelt while Mr. Maynard invoked God's blessing on his family. And were either of his children absent they were not forgotten, but the "absent ones" were especially remembered in the petitions. Such was Eva's childhood's home. 
                  But Mr. Maynard's health was not good, and Eva insisted on earning her own living by teaching school, that she might not burden her dear parents in their declining years. 
                  When about nineteen she was introduced to a young man by the name of Canfield. 
                  They often met in society, and soon became warm friends; and soon their friendship ripened into a warmer sentiment,-they loved one another. And young Canfield was worthy of his prize; and if he felt proud of his "Prairie Flower," as he playfully called her, she felt, and felt truly, that she had given her heart to one who was in every sense worthy of her. "And I will try to make his home a happy one, and he shall never have cause to regret the day I became his wife," said she to herself the evening before his departure for Australia. 
                  They loved each other as only such souls can love-with all the soul-and were to be married as soon as he returned from the land of gold. 
                  He was accompanied to Australia by a married man by the name of Aply, who left a wife and two children (twins) at home. Aply had once been a suitor for the hand of Eva, but she rejected his suit, and he in a moment of chagrin, went and married a giddy girl of sixteen summers, who made a passable companion, but she did not fully atone for the loss of his "Prairie-Flower," and when he found Canfield was the accepted suitor, he could hardly conceal his vexation, for Aply loved Eva. 
                  For a long time after Henry's departure, he wrote to his betrothed quite often, his letters breathing a spirit of pure, holy affection; and Eva began to feel the time would soon come when she should welcome home her heart's idol! But all at once his letters ceased, and the invariable "not any" from the post-man, sent her home sick at heart! What could it mean? Could it be that he had found some other face who he preferred before her! If so, why did not he apprise her of the fact, and ask release from the engagement! 
                  But the question remained unanswered, and the most reasonable conclusion was, that she was forgotten. 
                  Terrible was the blow to our heroine, for she had given him all her heart. She came near sinking beneath the tempest: but after a time of anxious suspense, Aply came home, on receipt of a telegram that his wife was dead. He confirmed her suspicions, saying that Canfield had become suddenly enamored with a beautiful brunette on the island, and would soon be home with his bride. Then wounded pride came to her rescue; and she saw with pain, but assumed firmness, her idol which she had reared and worshiped crumble to atoms! Pride sustained her. Still after the first excitement over, she came near sinking. 
                   
                  She said nothing about it, but attended to her duties in a dazed mechanical way, and with pain her friends saw the "worm in the bud," was gnawing at her heart, sapping the fountain of life. 
                  Everything she did was done in a dull mechanical way: indeed she was fast fading away. 
                  After Mrs. Aply had been buried about a year, Aply again made Eva an offer of his hand, and urged his suit with zeal. 
                  Eva at first was firm in her refusal, resolving to brood over her sorrows, and to spend her life alone. But she at last consented to become a "step-mother." They were married. 
                  Three sweet cherub ones were given her to cheer and gladden her heart, and for a while the affection of her sweet babes caused her to forget her first great sorrow. But her babes were only "lent." 
                  First, a sweet little prattler of only twelve months was carried by angels to the bosom of the Good Shepherd. 
                  Next, the beautiful Willie, a noble boy of eight summers must go; at twilight's pensive hour, her darling breathed his last. Let us draw the curtain tain: such sorrow is too sacred for others to gaze upon. 
                  Her eldest-an intellectual, sensitive lad-and her husband were spared; she would not murmur, but "kiss the rod." She tried to say, "Thy will be done," but how little did she dream of the fearful avalanche, which was now ready to engulph her beneath its ruins. 
                  A few days after the burial of Willie, a neighbor came in with the lifeless form of the last and only one whom God had spared. "My God! Is he dead?" And the next moment, she lay senseless on the floor. 
                  Restoratives brought her back to life, only to learn that she was childless. 
                  Her beautiful boy had been kicked by a colt, which was a favorite, and which he had ventured too near, and-he never spoke more! Three mounds, side by side, each marked by a plain, white marble, mark the spot where Mrs. Apley goes to weep. 
                  There lie her treasures! Precious jewels! 
                  The casket only is there; the "jewels" the "Master" has got. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  MRS. Apley's health became so much impaired that her husband determined to grant a long-cherished wish of Eva's, to return to her childhood's home for a few months to recruit her enfeebled energies; while he went further west to seek and purchase a more desirable home, as he had long wanted more land. When all was arranged, he was to go to Rochester for his wife; visit with her,-and they in company to return to the home he had prepared for her. 
                  Mr. Apley took his wife to Fond du Lac in a carriage; purchased a "through ticket" for her, and with an ashen countenance he gave her a farewell kiss, a hasty "good-bye;" the whistle sounded, and she was gone. 
                  Mrs. Apley had never traveled alone, and the three days she was on the cars seemed as many weeks to her; it was a position she was so unused to-all alone! Eva was one of those natures who require a strong, noble support to entwine around, receiving care and protection, while in return she returned the affection of a warm, loving heart. 
                  By nature, she was not self-reliant; and her future discipline was needed, in order that she might throw off that inefficient effeminacy, and become a person capable of caring for herself. But we digress-will the reader pardon? 
                  Mrs. Aply arrived safely at Rochester, and for a time all was joy and happiness. 
                  A few letters came from her husband: he "had not yet purchased;" and by-and-by, strange rumors! but her husband she never saw more. 
                  Reader, this is no fiction; I was an intimate friend of Mr. Apley's, was an eye-witness to the parting scene at Fond du Lac; and have been witness to the soul-agony of the broken-hearted wife, years afterwards. 
                  After fruitless inquiry and search, and the unanimous opinion being that he was dead, Eva set about to find something to do, whereby she could earn her living; for, to one of her nature, death is preferable to eating the bread of dependence. But the long-continued draft on her nervous ous system made her ill; and she, by paying heavy doctor's bills, &c., so became reduced in circumstances that we find her at the pawn-broker's, trying to sell a dress to procure money to pay her board. 
                  Her health was feeble, but there was no alternative; and soon after we saw her at the pawnshop, she accepted an agency for a popular work published by W. J. Holland, Mass., and went out to procure subscribers for it. 
                  This was no easy task for one of her timid nature; for Eva was from a child "bashful to a fault." And the book-business was not at first congenial. And many times when canvassing a town, she would feel such a shrinking from entering stranger's houses, and presenting her book, that she would pass several dwellings, before she could rally moral courage to go in and present her work. 
                  But starvation was before her, unless she succeeded, and Oh, how earnestly did she plead with God for strength to persevere. 
                  But, to return to her dilemma at the pawnshop. She was delivering a list of books in the sweet, rural town of ---, when on entering a house one day, she was agreeably surprised to recognize in a woman, who had just called at the house, her old servant-girl Susan ---, the first domestic she hired on going to house-keeping. She was not recognized by Susan; but she made herself known to her old friend, and also acquainted her with her reduced circumstances. 
                  Susan had a kind heart, and although uncultivated, her warm, genial nature made her no undesirable friend. She had married a mechanic; and her home, though humble, was close by, she said; and she insisted on Eva making her house her home, through the present winter. The invitation was gratefully accepted. 
                  The next day after her arrival at her friend's house, Susan took one of her boarders into another room, and narrated to him the circumstances of the pawned dress. "She is my old mistress, and a worthy woman," said she; "you have the money and can assist her, and you must; please, John, do!" said she persuasively. 
                  "I had intended to place my money all in a bank, on interest; but if I can be of so much service to any one by the loan of a few dollars, I will cheerfully do so;" said the young man addressed. "I may be in close quarters myself sometime." He arose, went into the room where Eva sat, silent and dejected, and thus addressed her:-"Mrs. Apley, how much money do you need to relieve your present embarrassment?" She named the sum; he handed her the amount, she in return giving him a note payable in four months at 8 per cent interest. And thanking him warmly, she took the evening train, and soon found herself at the pawn-shop in Rochester. 
                  Repairing to the room where the counter was, she told the broker that she had come to redeem her dress. He dispatched a messenger to his house, who soon returned with it; she paid the exorbitant price demanded for the use of $8.00, and returned to her friend's house in --again, feeling that an angel of mercy and love was watching over her, and she felt renewed courage to toil on; still she could never recall to mind the heartless business of the pawn-shop, without a thrill of pain. Taking an unfair advantage of the necessity of those less fortunate than himself, and by this means hoarding up his ill-gotten wealth, while he steels his heart to the sorrows of his fellow-man. 
                   
                     
                         
                           "Man's inhumanity to man 
                           Makes countless millions mourn." 
                        
                      
                     COWPER. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  WITH the reader's permission, we will take a sly peep into a cozy sitting room on Main street, in the city of Rochester. There are only two occupants of the room; one a bachelor of forty, sits, pretending to read, while his pallid countenance and clouded brow, where intense suffering is so indelibly stamped as to show to any keen observer that he had passed through some fiery ordeal, and had hardly emerged from the crucible. The other occupant, his partner in the mercantile business, and the owner of this fine home, is a man, fine-looking, of jolly, happy disposition, and whose countenance beams with every kindly emotion, carrying sunshine wherever he went. Happiness is depicted in every feature, and a person would readily infer that his affectional nature had been fully satisfied. 
                  His name is Pettibone and that of his partner Henry Canfield. The firm of "Pettibone & Canfield field" had stood through a terrible financial panic; which had made many stout hearts quake, and men turn pale; but luckily, that firm came out unscathed. 
                  Pettibone had just entered the room, as we introduce him to the reader's notice. He had for some time felt distressed to notice the dejection of his friend and partner, and had determined on this evening ascertaining, if possible, the cause of his friend's sorrow. 
                  "Well, Henry," said Pettibone, as he leisurely drew a chair near his friend, "I have come in for the express purpose of driving dull care away, for I don't like to see your brow so cloudy as it has been for some time; and don't you know, chum, that it often lightens our load of sorrow to unburthen our minds to some friend in whom we can confide; and as you have no loving wife to whom you can confide your troubles, I thought perhaps I might answer for a substitute. 
                  "Now out with it, Henry, for I am bound not to leave this room until I know what troubles you; and if there is anything I can do for you I shall be ready and glad to do it. Why man, you are wasting to a skeleton." 
                   
                  Canfield tried to smile at his friend's earnestness, and replied in trembling accents: "I sincerely thank you for your sympathy, and although I did not feel willing to intrude my trouble on others, still, as you say, it will be a relief to unburthen my soul to some one; and if you can aid me by your counsel, heaven knows I shall be thankful." Pausing a moment, he lit a cigar, took one himself, and handing one to his friend, continued: "To tell you the cause of my present anxiety, I shall have to take you back with me seventeen years. I was then twenty-three, and as wild as most boys of nineteen. But to cut the story short, I loved a beautiful girl who went among the young folks who knew her as the 'Prairie-Flower;' who gave her that romantic name I never took pains to inquire, nor did I care. Her real name was Eva Maynard, and a lovelier girl or purer spirit never existed. Heaven knows I loved that girl! 
                  "I was anxious to see something of the world, and made arrangements to go to Australia and spend a few months, and as soon as I returned Eva had promised to be mine. 
                   
                  "I was to be accompanied to Australia by a married man, who had been at some time a suitor of Eva's. 
                  "Bitter was the hour of parting between myself and Eva; but she, angel as she was, tried to throw a ray of sunshine over the affair, saying a year would soon pass away, and then we would never be parted more. At the same time taking this from her portmonnaie, and handed it to me, saying playfully, 'this will act as a charm to keep you from danger, and bear in mind the original will often think of you.'" And Canfield held out to his friend a gold locket, and touching a spring, displayed one of the sweetest faces he ever met. Pettibone sat gazing at the lovely picture, and his friend continued. "I kissed her and I was gone! 
                  "A year rolled round, and I was about to start for home to claim my promised bride, when I was suddenly prostrated with brain fever. For many weeks my life was despaired of, and I lay in a darkened room near the river. 
                  "At last physicians pronounced me convalescent, but it was a long time before I was able to commence my journey home. And one day, I inquired of Aply, who had been my only reliance in my illness, if no letters had come from Eva since my illness. 
                  "He took a letter from his pocket, saying: 'only this one, and this came in this morning's mail, but it doesn't look like a lady's hand-writing,' while a look of triumph passed over his features, which I could not at that time account for, but since that the problem has been solved. I broke the seal, and eagerly perused it. 
                  "It was not from Eva, but from her father, and he went on to say that Eva had received no answer for a long time to the many letters she had written, and believing me to be false, she had sunk into the grave; upbraiding me for my treachery in thus depriving him of his idolized daughter. 
                  "The result of the letter was a relapse; another long time of suffering and anguish, and when I at last rallied, life had lost all charm for me. My Eva was gone, and there was nothing to attract me home now, so I staid several years longer on the Island before the wound was sufficiently healed to return to the spot where she and I had spent so many happy hours together. 
                  "And after I did arrive at my old home it was some time before I could summon courage to seek out her friends. But while thus delaying, I received a summons from Mr. Maynard to come to him immediately. I obeyed the summons, wondering what he could want to see me for! 
                  "The old man met me at the door, holding in his hand an open letter, and welcoming me warmly, he began, 'O, I am so glad you have come, Henry; read this,' handing me the letter in his hand. 
                  "The letter was from Aply, who had married Eva. A confession of his guilt. It seems while I lay ill in Australia, that Aply had contrived a plan to secure Eva if possible. Accordingly in order to carry out his nefarious scheme, he had bribed the postmaster in Australia, and in this way intercepted my letters to Eva, and then forged the one purporting to come from her father; and on its having the effect he knew it would have in my weak state, he took advantage of my relapse, and pretending to have received a telegram from home, he hastened home, and on his arrival he sought Eva and renewed his suit for her hand, telling her that I had become captivated with a brilliant brunette in Australia, and I would soon return with my lovely bride. 
                  "Eva at first refused to hold any intercourse with Aply, but wounded pride at last came to her rescue, and she promised to become his wife. They were married. And as Aply had really loved Eva, she tried to give him all the heart she had left, and they were comparatively happy. 
                  "They moved west. But the terrible wrong Aply had done me, troubled his conscience to that extent that it became unendurable; and he sold his farm west, let his wife come back to visit her parents, and he left for parts unknown! sending by mail to Maynard a full account of his nefarious plot, and asking him if I ever returned, to say to me he was truly penitent, and hoping I would forgive the grievous wrong he had done me. 
                  "'Then is Eva alive?' I asked of Maynard. 'I think she is,' said her father; but I don't know where she is, for when she found she was deserted by her husband, she could not be persuaded suaded to remain here, but said she must now learn self-reliance; and she is somewhere in the State canvassing for a "Publishing House." He said he hoped I would try to find her, for he felt that she belonged to me. 
                  "A few days after this conversation, Maynard died suddenly; and his wife, who had been ill for some time, soon followed him-none of the neighbors knowing Eva's whereabouts, so as to apprise her of her parents' death. But wherever she is, she is homeless and friendless, if alive. And all search for her has been fruitless thus far; but the other day, as I chanced to step into that pawnshop, kept by old Jew Bodine, I saw a lady enter the shop to sell a silk dress, and somehow her voice strongly reminded me of Eva; I tried to get a glimpse of her face, but she had on a thick veil. Somehow I can hardly sleep nights, for thinking of that sad voice in the pawn-shop; but then it can't be her, I know; for she could not be so much reduced as to sell her clothes; it ain't possible." 
                  "Well, friend Canfield, I don't wonder you look blue and feel sad; but cheer up, chum; our united efforts may, and no doubt will, prove successful in finding your Birdie. At all events, no means shall be left untried by me to obtain information of her, living or dead; and I have faith to believe we shall find her." He paused a moment and continued, "Henry, I have ever believed that where two souls love each other with such a pure, holy affection, that the parties will be restored to each other, though they may have been separated for a time by unfavorable circumstances. Perhaps the discipline you have passed through, will be beneficial to you both. It is through such experiences that the mind develops its most beautiful powers, and grows strong. 
                         
                           Constant sunshine, however welcome, 
                           Ne'er would ripen fruit or flower: 
                           Giant oaks owe half their greatness 
                           To the scathing tempest's power." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Those lines are beautiful, and contain much truth," replied Canfield; "but you know, friend, bitter medicine is unpalatable to most of us, even though it may prove ever so beneficial to us in the end. I confess, I prefer the sweets of life, even though by their use I may become nerveless and inefficient." 
                  "We cannot fully appreciate the beautiful sunshine, without now and then a storm to contrast," said Pettibone. "I sometimes feel that, surrounded by loved ones as I am, and everything to make me happy, I don't have hardly storms enough to make me healthy in mind. But it was not always thus, Henry; I have known what storms meant." And some painful recollection caused a momentary shadow on his brow. 
                  It soon passed, and he continued: "I firmly believe, I feel that your last days will be the happiest of your life. Now dismiss that gloomy look, and we will work unitedly to find your lost Eva." 
                  "But she is fettered by law," replied Canfield, raising his eyes gloomily. "There is not much satisfaction for a man who is starving for food, to see a table loaded with tempting dishes, while he is forbidden to eat! The sight of food would only increase his sufferings. I have no right to her. Oh, it makes me frantic, to think of my Eva, as another man's wife! I do hope I shall never chance to meet Aply anywhere. I am fearful I should do something I should regret while life lasted." 
                  "Henry, do you think a marriage ceremony can or ought to separate two souls thus united in spirit; united by the Law of God-Law of the Soul?" 
                  "You surely would not advocate "Free-loveism," or "Socialism," said Canfield in surprise. 
                  "No, I do not," answered his friend. "But 'what God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.'" I have the authority of the Bible. The case now under consideration is an exceptional one; separated by treachery, and I firmly believe that if Eva be living, and you can find her, it would be right for you to claim her as your wife! and I believe angels would gaze on the scene with joy and delight. I tell you my dear friend, the law of the soul is more binding than the law of our land. The first is God's work; the last is man's." 
                  "I never took that view of the subject before," said Canfield; "but I believe you are right, and I would be willing to lay my life down once more to have a sight of that dear face! I would be willing to die then." "Let me interrupt you, friend Canfield; I think you would be the last chap who would talk of dying; but would be very anxious to live, if Eva was found," said Pettibone, laughing heartily. 
                  Canfield could not but smile at his friend's sallies, in spite of his dejection. 
                  "Well, it is bed-time," said Pettibone, looking at his watch, "Good night; and please bear in mind we will yet find your lady-love; and I will pledge myself to buy her trousseau, and shall expect an invitation to the wedding, and (won't you be jealous?) I shall be the first one who will claim the honor of saluting the bride. Heigho!" And as he closed the door behind him; Canfield took up the paper he had been reading previous to his friend's entering the room; and chanced to cast his eye on the space allotted to "Obituaries." 
                  "Thank God!" he exclaimed, as his eye rested on these words:-Died, at Pike's Peak of typhoid fever on the 12th November, W. Apley, formerly of Rochester, N. Y. Among strangers he was taken down and no skill could save him. Services by the writer. 
                  Will eastern papers please copy. 
                  "O, what cause for gratitude; but stop! Can I feel joy at a person's death? He's wrong, very wrong! may God forgive me! But now Eva is mine, all mine, if living." And paper in hand he rushed into Pettibone's sleeping room, and imparted the news of his enemy's death to Mr. and Mrs. Pettibone." 
                  "The silver lining already begins to show itself;" said Mrs. Pettibone, "and I am sure we shall all sleep better for this news; and we shall hope now to see your face once more wreathed in smiles." Her husband had just been telling her the sad story as Canfield entered the room. 
                  Now we will leave Canfield and his friends, and in the ensuing chapter, we will see what Eva has been about all this time. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  Long, weary months and years Eva toiled on, sometimes prospering and doing a good business, and at other times not realizing sufficient to pay her board, and procure the most necessary articles of clothing. Board was high. Some of the time she could not get board less than a dollar per day, or seven dollars per week; and a few times she paid as high as a dollar and a half per day. And when we take into consideration the remuneration a woman is expected to receive, we know it was more than any woman could do to lay by anything for a dark day, or a time of illness. Oh, will the time ever come when freedom of thought shall predominate, and be the platform; and when justice, unfettered by public sentiment, will dare to do right, and award to a woman the compensation she is justly entitled to for her labor? But we digress. Oh, how often did Eva feel tempted to take one long, last leap beneath a rippling stream which she often passed, and be at rest. But no! her good angel whispered to her troubled soul that it would be wrong, and she tried to feel that He who fed the ravens when they cry for food, would feed her;-toiling, praying, and enduring, she lived; often wondering why her life was spared. 
                  One morning, on trying to arise to go to her work, she sank back upon her couch prostrate; her limbs refused to do their office. Nature's laws had been too deeply transgressed; she lay helpless; just alive! 
                  Neighbors summoned a physician, and nobly did he battle with her sinking system. He said she was overworked, and starved. Day after day did that noble man attend his unfortunate patient, and many have been the moments he has spent, yes, hours, in feeding her a teaspoonful of beef tea at a time, alternating it with fresh eggs, beaten with new milk and loaf sugar. 
                  It was rest and nourishment she needed, he said. And kindly as a brother did he watch over his friendless patient. But at last he was compelled to secure counsel, and brought to his aid a physician of larger experience, Dr. Rosa. 
                   
                  "She worked till she dropped in her tracks," said Dr. Rudd to his counsel. 
                  Dr. Rosa sat gazing with pitying eye upon her wasted form, and finally broke the silence. "She must have suffered terribly to have brought her to this reduced state. All you can do now is to continue as you have; only crowd on the nourishment and stimulants, Doctor." 
                  After weeks of suffering she was again restored to health to battle with poverty's cruel power. She was still pale from her recent illness, but she felt aroused to prompt action; she must find something more remunerative than she had had, in order to cancel the bills accumulated in her last illness. "O, why didn't they let me die?" she often asked herself "I can't stem the tide any longer." But her trials were not yet ended. 
                  All this while Eva supposed Canfield was living cosily with his beautiful Australian bride; and sometimes she thought to herself, "I shall meet him bye and bye; he will be my own dear Henry on the other side; she can't claim him on those beautiful shores; for each soul will there find its affinity, drawn together by laws of the soul; no matter how great the mistake here, or how cruel the separation, all will be remedied in that land, and I shall see him and know him-Oh, I am sure I shall; no more parting; Oh, blissful thought of a reunion with our loved ones!" 
                  Through a friend's influence Eva succeeded in procuring employment in a manufactory of cartridges. The proprietor of this shop was the world renowned E. Remington & Co. Here she found the young ladies employed were an intelligent class, much superior to those usually found in shops. Indeed, many of them were highly educated and refined; but as the business was remunerative, they had gladly accepted a position there. 
                  The work was light and pleasant, and with an intelligent and kind-hearted foreman, she found her situation much improved. Eva became much attached to her shop-mates; indeed nearly all of them treated her with so much kindness that she could not but love them in return. 
                  She had been in the shop about a year, when one morning while in the act of preparing some kindling with a hatchet, she accidentally struck her thumb on her left hand, severing it just below the first joint. A surgeon was called, who dressed the wound, pronouncing it a bad wound on account of the hatchet being dull, bruising the bone as well as cutting it. 
                  Here then was another dilemma! Again disabled! O, if she could only die! But that good Father, who is ever watching over his children for good, was still caring for her. 
                  Now we will leave our heroine for a time, and take a sly peep into the shop. 
                  It is the hour of noon; the foreman has just left the room to go to his dinner, and none but a few of the work-hands are in the shop. There stands grouped a half dozen young ladies, earnestly discussing some project, while their features are lit up with a look of tenderness which ever makes the soul of woman shine out with such resplendent loveliness. Surely it must be something important to thus engross their minds at the dinner hour, for they commence work at seven in the morning and cannot but feel hungry after so early a breakfast. 
                   
                  There is Gertrude F--s, a quiet, earnest, loving soul, ever ready to relieve suffering, and at her side stands Winifred, an intelligent, interesting maiden, whose intellectual brow denotes depth of thought, and whose refined manners ever denote the lady of culture and good society; while Addie, a sweet, brilliant young lady, who is ever ready to relieve suffering; and Nettie, a brilliant, jovial girl, who is always ready to cause a laugh with her sallies of wit and humor, which fact, combined with intellect and culture, make her a favorite with many. Alice, and her friend Flora, and several others, are engaged in a close consultation. 
                  The news of Eva's misfortune had gone to the shop that morning, and those kind-hearted girls, with hearts ever alive to mercy's pleadings, are now planning means to assist her in this dark hour, that she may not feel forsaken. But there is another presence in that room hovering around and over that group, invisible to mortal eyes, but it is there. The recording angel is listening to their plans and watching with anxious eye that group of maidens, and when all was decided he plumed his wings and flew back to his heavenly home, and with pen dipped in indelible ink he made a glorious entry in the great "Book of Record." And will they lose their reward? Never! Our Saviour says: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my little ones, ye have done it unto me. For I was hungry, and ye fed me; sick, and ye visited me, etc. Come ye blessed of my Father into the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." 
                  The results of this consultation will be seen by perusing a leaf in Eva's journal. She writes, November 27, '73: "Oh, what abundant reason have I to feel gratitude, not only to my heavenly Father, but also to my friends! What real cause for loving them! They have shown so much kindness and sympathy in this dark hour. 
                  "Many persons in attempting to assist others who are in need, only make matters worse, if possible, by heartless remarks relative to their reduced circumstances, every word of which, to a refined nature, only serves as a probe to pierce afresh an already lacerated heart. But my friends have managed their affairs in my case with so much tact and delicacy that it has served as a balm to my wounded spirit. Such friends are priceless! 
                  "To-day as I sat thinking of my loved and lost ones, and looking at the dark side of everything, until reason seemed almost tottering on her throne, all in the future so dark and drear, the door quietly opened, and a man came in bringing a large basket filled with parcels of groceries, and commenced piling them on the table. In surprise I told him there must be a mistake, for I had not ordered anything to-day. But he pointed to my name on the parcels, 'Mrs. Eva Aply.' I insisted on his taking them back, for they were not mine I told him. He reluctantly obeyed, but in a short time returned and unceremoniously laid the parcels on the table. There was butter, tea, sugar, crackers, apples, chicken, and a sack of flour. I asked the man who the donor of these things were, and he replied he did not know. While we were talking, another man drove up with a load of beautiful coal, for Mrs. Aply, he said. How could I ever distrust the watchful and loving care of my heavenly father? Who can the donors be? Truly, my 'Father is at the helm.'" 
                  This, then, was the result of the council held in the "Cartridge rooms." 
                  A while after this, as Eva had received the amount due her from the paymaster, she immediately went to the owner of the rooms she occupied, and handed him a ten-dollar bill to pay her rent. He took the bill, saying as he did so, "This more than pays me. I am in your debt now." "Why, no! How can that be?" "The girls paid me five dollars towards your rent." There was more of the girls' work; Eva stood dumb with astonishment. And all had been managed with so much tact and delicacy that it could not offend the most sensitive spirit. 
                  Eva was spell-bound. What had she ever done to merit such loving sympathy from her shop-mates? Nothing. And many times her sorrows pressed so heavily on her brain, that she was incapacitated for the commonest courtesies of life. 
                  "These are not 'summer friends,'" thought Eva. 
                  "May God bless them! and I know He will." 
                   
                  It was many long weeks before Eva's hand became sufficiently healed, so that she could return to the shop. But when she was so far restored that she could work with one hand, the foreman kindly gave her work on a press which she could manage with one hand! 
                  Her joy was boundless, once more to be with those loving hearts! She had so long been a prisoner to her room, that it had a very beneficial effect on her health once more to go out among her old associates. 
                  Again we see her toiling, day after day, from seven in the morning till six, and sometimes, when business hurried, till nine or ten at night; making from ten to twelve and thirteen hours per day, shop-work; besides several hours at home, in home duties. 
                  Such continued labor must eventually prostrate any system not very robust; and after awhile Eva saw with pain and fearful forebodings that she was getting weaker every day. And her appetite, usually good, had failed entirely. And one day, on attempting to walk home from the shop, having eaten nothing but a cracker since the day previous, she tottered and fell. 
                  A carriage was coming at full speed; and seeing a woman suddenly fall on the pavement, he stopped his horses; and taking up the insensible form, he tenderly placed her in the carriage; and as she was still in a swoon, and he had no knowledge of her place of residence, he drove to his own residence on Main street, as rapidly as he could. 
                  He had been absent, and his wife came to the door to welcome her husband; looked surprised for a moment, but only a moment, for she was one of the lovely women of earth; and as he in a few brief words explained affairs, she, true to woman's kindly nature, soon had her placed in a cheerful room, on a soft, downy bed, with snow-white pillows; and a messenger was dispatched for Dr. Maben. His verdict was, "Overworked-and all she needs is rest and good care." "Which she shall have," said Mrs. Pettibone (for it was her husband who had picked up the prostrate woman), glancing at the same time at her sweet Blanche, who sat fanning the invalid; and thinking to herself, "what if my dear Blanche was compelled to drudge till she sank beneath the load? Oh, it is terrible to think of! She shall not lack for anything while under our roof; for as God has prospered us in business, it is our duty to divide with those less fortunate." Thus soliloquizing to herself, Mrs. Pettibone leaves her seat, takes a cup of beef-tea, and going to the bed, gently as a sister did she raise her head, and feed her two or three teaspoonfuls, then laid her gently down again on the snowy pillow. 
                  "Thank you. Where am I?" feebly whispered the sick woman, and sank away into one of her sinking spells. Stimulants brought her back to life, but Mrs. Pettibone enjoined strict quiet, adding kindly: "You are among friends. Now I want you to feel perfectly at home. All shall be explained when you get well." Then stooping down, imprinted a kiss on that pale cheek, she left the room to give orders to the servants. 
                   
                  Weeks rolled round, and Eva had so far recovered ered that she could sit up, and walk out into the garden among the flower-beds. When the day was fine, she would stay, and form such beautiful wreaths of flowers, displaying a fine sense of the beautiful and a mind far superior to her present position in the work-shop. 
                  "How is your patient, Doctor?" asked Canfield one morning, as the doctor entered the counting-room; and then recollecting himself, added, "I say patient, as if you had but one; but I referred particularly to the woman at our house who was picked up by Pettibone in the street. Bridget told me about it, as she poured my coffee this morning." 
                  "I will answer your question by asking another," said the Doctor humorously. "Have you seen her." 
                  "Why no; I only came home late last night; and she was not at the breakfast table this morning; I presume she is not sufficiently restored to take her meals in the dining-room. Why do you ask if I have seen her, Doctor? Is she beautiful? You know I am not much of a 'lady's man,' but the story related me by the servant aroused my sympathies, hence my inquiries." 
                  "As to being beautiful," resumed the Doctor, "she is past the age to be considered beautiful by many, for she is no longer young: but there is a beauty of soul shining out that seems to attract people to her, faded as she is. There is a mystery about that woman, Canfield, and if you had not resolutely barred your heart against all the sex, I would like to have you become acquainted with this patient of mine; she has evidently seen better days, and seems to possess all the qualifications necessary to make a home happy. But you seem perfectly impregnable to Cupid's darts," laughing heartily; then adding, "O, I beg pardon, friend Canfield, you asked me how that particular patient of mine was getting along. I have been all around the sap bush, and your question unanswered. She is doing well now-is gaining strength as fast as her reduced condition will permit. Have I atoned?" A hearty laugh was the only response, and the doctor continued: "To-morrow myself and wife are to take our patient out riding, and I would be happy to have you accompany us; that is if you are not afraid of being 'hit' with one of Cupid's darts," said the Doctor. 
                  "To show you how little I stand in fear of the sly old Archer or his weapons, I will make one of the company. Thanks for the honor conferred." 
                  The next morning was lovely. Myriads of wild songsters made the air resound with their sweet carols, while all nature, robed in her robe of velvety green, looked smiling and happy, while the sun illumed the earth without a cloud to dim his rays, and our riding party anticipating a glorious time, were assembling in the parlor preparatory to entering the carriage, which was drawn up in front of the mansion by a pair of beautiful bays. 
                  "Mrs. Aply, allow me to present to you my friend---. 
                  "My God I thank thee!" came from Canfield's white lips as he sprang forward and caught Mrs. Aply in his arms, just in time to prevent her falling ing to the floor, while she, with the words, "O, Henry!" sank into a swoon. 
                  "Well, well, what does this all mean?" said the Doctor, as soon as Eva, by the application of water, began to revive. 
                  "Mean," said Canfield, "it means, why Doctor, it is Eva, my long lost Eva, my darling!" while his strong, manly frame quivered like an aspen leaf. 
                  Pettibone took the Doctor aside and told him of their separation and sorrow, adding: "I did not know her name until within a few days, and then I was so anxious for Canfield's return, I could hardly wait till his arrival. O, I am so glad! so glad!" 
                  Dr. Maben was a Christian, and he soon returned to the parlor where the happy lovers were, and said: "Let us all kneel down and return thanks to God for this signal blessing. Mrs. Aply, this is better for you than medicine." 
                  All knelt and reverently and silently poured out their gratitude, while the Doctor vocally petitioned the throne of grace for those true hearts who had been so miraculously restored to each other. 
                   
                  "Our riding party I see is at an end," said the doctor to his wife, "so I guess we will ride out a short distance and return." And, taking her arm, they stepped into the carriage, and away it rolled. 
                  "O, can it be? Ain't it a dream? O, it can't be!" said Eva, as she gazed lovingly into Henry's face. 
                  "It is no dream, you are mine, all mine, now and forever, my prairie flower. No more toil, no more sorrow, unshared by me," as he drew her to him in a close embrace. 
                  After their joy had become somewhat modified, and they were able to converse intelligently once more, Mrs. Pettibone asked Canfield why he had so often spoken of Eva as his 'prairie flower.' "What ever gave her that title among the people?" 
                  Eva was the only one who could solve the riddle. "When I was quite a small child," said she, "my father lived near a small prairie, and, being passionately fond of flowers, I used to roam over it, plucking the most beautiful, and bring them home in wreaths, or in bouquets for our vases; but one day I became so engrossed with my wreath-making that I did not notice how low the sun was; all at once I heard brother's voice calling me, and he soon came up to where I was trying to fix my flowers in shape to carry home. He said my parents were much alarmed at my absence; 'and now, my little puss,' said he, 'you must look out for an awful scolding.' And then he asked me why I staid away so long. I told him I did love flowers so well, and I wished God had made me a little prairie flower, for they were beautiful and sweet, and didn't have to be scolded at by their brothers as little girls did; Little girls were of no account any way, and I did wish I had been a prairie flower instead of a little girl. He laughed at my simplicity, and on our arrival home I repeated the wish, and my father, and in time, my associates, gave me the pet name of Prairie Flower. 
                  "Here is my wedding gift," said Pettibone to Eva, about two months after the incidents last narrated, at the same time holding out to her a large paste-board box, containing a bridal 
                        trosseau
                        trousseau
                      which had just arrived from Paris. 
                   
                  "As Henry tells me 'no presents' are to be on the wedding cards, I had to fly around to come in ahead of him, and present you with a wedding dress suitable for Henry's bride. The plain rig you have prepared, you can give to some one who needs it," said he, laughing. 
                  "I am not worthy such kind friends," said Eva, as, warmly thanking the giver, she took the parcel and left the room. 
                  The day had arrived and all was bustle and animation at the house of Pettibone where the ceremony was to take place. The bride was still pale from her recent illness, but oh, how happy! 
                  Wedding cards were sent to her shop-mates, for as Eva had said, they had stood by her in her hour of sorrow, and they must witness her joy, and happiness. 
                  The ceremony was over, and the guests were preparing to depart when the bridesmaid handed to each of the young ladies so closely concerned in the "Surprise" affair-Addie, Gertrude, Winifred, Nettie, Alice, Flora, and C, a small tiny bit of paper neatly folded, and written with pencil on the outside "A gift from the bride." 
                   
                  On reaching their homes, they found on unfolding the paper a hundred dollar greenback accompanied with these words: "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord, which he will repay." It was now their turn to rejoice. 
                  And now, dear reader, as we have left our heroine happy, and her old friends happy, we will bid each other adieu for the present, hoping, and praying, that the bridegroom and his Prairie Flower may see as many years of happiness and joy, as they had seen of sorrow. 
                
               [THE END.] 
             
             
                
               THE FARWELL. 
                
                  Adieu, my lovely child, adieu, 
                  Thy lengthened sufferings now are o'er. 
                  By faith, thy friends on earth now view 
                  Thy ransomed soul on Canaan's shore. 
                
                
                  Thy beauteous form the grave conceals, 
                  And closed in death, thy mild blue eye, 
                  Thy voice, like music to my ear, 
                  Is hushed; and stilled its melody. 
                
                
                  We miss thee, loved one; none can tell 
                  The loneliness that reigns around, 
                  Enshrouding all from hill to vale, 
                  Since thou wert laid beneath the ground. 
                
                
                  But soon the archangel's trump shall sound, 
                  And my sweet babe in Christ shall rise, 
                  With bright, immortal beauty crown'd, 
                  And glory beaming from his eyes. 
                
               
                  CARRIE.
                
             
         
       
   
