
    ----CITATION----
        Azile.. Dora Raymond, or, Truth Triumphant .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5822
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
          
             
               DORA RAYMOND; 
               OR, TRUTH TRIUMPHANT. 
             
            BY AZILE, Author of "Star Dust," "Nora Gilbert," Etc. 
             
               
                   
                     "A christian is the highest style of man. 
                     And is there who the blessed cross wipes off 
                     As a foul blot from his dishonored brow? 
                     If angels tremble-'tis at such a sight!" 
                  
                
             
            
               BINGHAMTON: 
               PRINTED AT THE DAILY REPUBLICAN BOOK AND JOB OFFICE.
             
            1863. 
          
       
      
         
            Dora Raymond, or, Truth triumphant 
             
             
            DORA RAYMOND. 
            BY AZILE. 
             
               IT was always a subject of debate at school, whether Dora Raymond was pretty or not. Little Sammy Earle thought she looked most like a witch of anything that he had ever seen; but Freddie Mills said that she was too dark for a witch; whereupon Sammie informed him, in a mysterious, confidential whisper, that ghosts were always white, but that he had heard of black witches. Sammie said that it was like lightning at midnight to see her black eyes flash, and that he was more afraid of her when she was angry than of anything else in the world. 
               "Why, she never says much," replied Freddie. 
               "No, but she looks, and that look is worse than thunder. If she would only say, it wouldn't be so bad. I am never afraid of these girls that will talk, for then you know what you've got to bear; but you never know what's coming from Dora Raymond, or what she thinks of you, only that look, which makes one know that there is a hurricane within, and that, if she chose, she could sweep you into Egypt." 
               "Well, she is never angry without a cause," argued Freddie. "She never looks so unless somebody does something mean; and you know it was awful mean of you to take little Paul's apples the other day, and then put your hand over his mouth so that we shouldn't hear him scream. I'm real glad that she looked at you so, until you felt no bigger than a sixpence." 
               "Why, I only did it to frighten him, for he is so stingy. I meant to give them back to him again." 
               "Hush! there is Dora now," said Freddie. "I should think Arthur Elwood thought her handsome, for she is the only girl in the village that he takes the least notice of. See, he is crossing the fields, and will go around through the woods to meet her." 
               "I think it very funny for a young man as old as he to pay so much attention to a child," said Sammie; "and it flatters Dora so that she will not look at us. Why, there's Mary Sanford, three years older than Dora, who is glad enough to have me walk home with her, and listens to every word I say with the utmost attention; but the other day I joined Dora and talked my prettiest, but I do not think she heard five words I uttered, for she looked at me so vacantly, and at last said: 'Sammie, I would much rather be alone, or, if you stay, I do wish that you would stop talking, for it annoys me. I want to think; it is so solemn in these deep woods.'" 
               "I don't think it queer that Arthur Elwood likes her," said Freddie. "Nor you wouldn't either if you had seen her as I did the other day. I have heard my mother say that she had fine eyes, and would make a handsomer woman than child; but I tell you, sometimes when she is with Arthur Elwood she is beautiful-the most beautiful creature that I ever saw." 
               "I told you that she was of the nature of a witch," interrupted the superstitious little Sammie, "and can make herself look mighty different at different times." 
               "Well," continued Freddie, "I was going to tell you that I passed them the other day, and Arthur Elwood was holding a bunch of freshly-gathered water-lilies, and she was reaching for them, but looking, I thought, more earnestly into Arthur's eyes than at the flowers. Her red lips were parted in a half smile, and there was such a bright color in her cheeks, and her eyes had no wild-fire in them, but were as soft as my sister Annie's, yet just as brilliant as ever. She looked like a rich sun-set cloud. How I wished that I was a painter!" 
               "An artist, you mean," corrected Sammie, in a slightly self-important tone. 
                
               By this time Arthur Elwood had made his circuit through the fields, and was by the side of the little Dora Raymond, the subject of the foregoing remarks. He was a youth of at least eighteen years of age, and a glance sufficed to assure one that "he was gentle, and to the manor born." Tall, slightly built, with straight, delicate features, large, thoughtful, deep blue eyes, complexion fair and soft as an infant's;-such, in appearance, was the son and heir of Mr. Elwood, by far the wealthiest gentleman in the county. A marked contrast he formed to the dark, little being by his side; that "strange little thing," as almost everybody called her, and yet everybody liked Dora, although none professed to understand her. The teachers liked her for the rapid progress that she made in all her studies; the persecuted little ones considered her their greatest friend; the weak and timid sought her, for she was the brave help and bold defender of all such; the gay and the strong, too, liked her, for in generosity she had no rival; her nuts and fruits were scattered among them with a lavish liberality, with never a thought of making any reservation for self. Then, too, she aided them in their sports; for she was wild and fearless in her play, venturing to do and dare what no one else would dream of. Yet though her laugh would ring the clearest, although her footsteps were the fleetest, and her manner the most gay and buoyant when engaged in out of door sports, she was never free of speech. In all that motley array of girls at the district school, Dora Raymond had no confidante. And at the long noon interval of rest and recreation, when, wearied of play, they would gather in groups under the trees and take out their well-filled baskets of refreshments, and begin their private and strictly confidential discourses, Dora was invariably missing. She would stray far off into the woods, and wander there alone until the loud bell of the district school would ring its unwelcome summons. But even that would sometimes fail to rouse her from her musings; and it was often owing to the vigilance Of little Freddie Mills that she bore no punishment for tardiness; for he ever watched her movements, and noted the direction she would take, that he might, in due time, break the spell of her pleasant daydreams. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               IT was neither night nor day; but that sweet hour when both blend into one; like loving hearts that are often sundered, and are bearing varied and widely different experiences, yet meet at intervals, during which each lives only in the other. Nothing definite, or separate, can be distinguished. All of life, past and present, flows in that one full, sweet, sacred hour; when it is past, there is-only night. 
               On the summit of a hill-top, on a rustic seat of moss-covered stones, sat Dora and Arthur. Her manner denoted extreme exhaustion; that utter weariness which ever follows passionate grief; and Dora's was not a nature to sorrow calmly and quietly. She had been weeping in all the abandonment of her first great and hopeless grief; while Arthur, with a forethought that would have graced maturer years, forebore to comfort her until the first outburst of violent emotion had subsided. Then he drew her gently towards him, rested her head on his shoulder, and tenderly smoothed back her long, dark tresses. As his soothing touch passed over her throbbing temples, her sobs grew fainter; still she did not raise her head, nor did the expression of hopeless dejection fade from her face. 
               Presently, "her white shell trembling amid crimson air, glided the young moon." Then Arthur broke the silence in accents of tender playfulness. 
               "Look up, Dora; look up, my Yuca; see-how beautiful!" 
               Dora slowly raised her head, glanced at the moon, then looking up at the youth, whose arm was fondly encircling her, she asked: 
               "Why do you call me that, Arthur?" 
               "Because you are the moon's own flower. The yuca filamentosa is the emblem of pure feminine beauty: it will not make any display in the glaring light of day; its leaves look dull, and the petals of the blossom shrink together. But look at it when the moon arises, and you would readily acknowledge there is no plant that grows more delicately, more purely beautiful. So it is with you, Dora. The moon seems to have a strange influence over you. It arouses you. In our moonlight walks I have known you to be brilliant; your speeches have glistened like silver and diamonds; you have uttered lovely imaginings that I am sure you never could have dreamed of in the sun-light. So look up, my Yuca, that the magic moon may weave her spell around you, that I may behold you once more as I love best to see you." 
               "No, no! Arthur," said the child, mournfully, "I can never have that sweet name any more. You are my moon; you are going to leave me; my sky will always be dark. The Yuca will droop; it will never shine again." 
               "Nay, Dora, do not say so. You have too much native strength of character to be completely crushed by any grief. We will miss each other sadly; but we can surely be greatly comforted by the thought, that in a few years I shall return and take you to dwell with me forever. We shall never be separated then. There is only one thought that troubles me; perhaps you will not be so ready to come then as now; but even if your affection remains unchanged, if you should still cling as fondly to the friend of your childhood, the delicious freedom with which you manifest it now, will be gone, and I shall grieve to lose it. I may find, instead of my impulsive, passionate Dora, a reserved and dignified maiden." 
               Dora's eyes lightened with an expression of almost indignant reproach. 
               "You need not look as if I had wronged you, Dora. I have unbounded trust in the depth, the truth, the constancy of your love; but you know, or will know one of these days, that little maidens of twelve will often utter what those of seventeen will strive to conceal. Yet if my Dora is unchanged in feeling when I return, I shall find little difficulty in discovering the truth. I shall soon ascertain whether my Yuca blooms only in the moonlight." 
                
               "It would be strange, indeed, dear Arthur, for me ever to seek to hide what I think or feel from you," said the child, nestling closer to him, and resting her head again on his shoulder. "You know that I have nobody in the world but you; not a single being to whom I can talk. I can play with other people; I can help them; I can listen to them, but I cannot talk to them. I have not learned to speak their language yet, and mine they do not understand; but you can understand it all so perfectly, and I have ever talked with you just as I do to the flowers and the stars, with quite as much freedom, and far more happily. Oh, Arthur!" she exclaimed, while her bosom heaved and her frame shook with emotion, as the thought of her great loss again pressed upon her, "Do not, do not leave me! I cannot bear it! I shall die! I want to die!" And again she wept passionately, while Arthur sought to comfort her in those thousand nameless ways that emanate from a love-taught heart, until she again lay quiet and passive in his arms, from utter exhaustion. She lay, with her large eyes fixed upon the moon as it slowly rose above them, until at last she murmured as slowly and dreamily as the moon was moving: "If there was a God-and He was a being something like ourselves, only mightier and more holy, and He could sleep as we do-I should say that He was sleeping now, and that the moon was His dream. The moon never seemed real to me; it never seems awake. It looks as if it was walking in its sleep. It is so high, so grand, so pure, so beautiful, yet so mysterious, it seems just like God's dream. The angels dream only stars; but God dreams the moon. The sun is His thought; a bright, clear, strong, waking thought. Oh, Arthur, there must be a God." 
               Arthur was silent. Dora still lay with her eyes never turning from the moon; but their expression varied from mournfulness to a yearning wistfulness; then to deep, earnest thought. Suddenly she rose, and looking up with a gaze of solemn rapture, she said in low but thrilling tones: "There is a God. I believe it. I feel it-I KNOW it. Arthur Elwood, I believe in God." 
                
               "I have no objection, Dora, to your believing in a God; I myself believe in a Great First Cause. I have told you that there was no God, to keep you from embracing the idea to the ridiculous extent that many do; but I have not the slightest objection to your believing in a Creator of all things." 
               "And that He is great, and wise, and good," interrupted Dora. 
               "We will not argue the point of His goodness just now," replied Arthur. "But, dear Dora, you have touched upon a subject that of late has caused me some anxiety. I am going to leave you. You will be exposed to other influence than mine. That little building yonder, which they dignify by the name of church, and which has been closed ever since my babyhood, is to be re-opened; and what the effect of such a proceeding will be upon this remote little village, that has remained so long unmolested by the tribe of ranters, and the whole host of reverend hypocrites, I cannot tell. They may all run mad at the thought of the brimstone and fire that is to be hailed upon them, and embrace the hateful doctrines taught by a certain class of deluded men, but which man, in his right mind, guided by the pure light of reason, must ever spurn. What the effect will be upon you I cannot tell. You are a child now. Could I remain with you, I would not fear their influence; but the minister and his wife will probably reside, for the first year at least, with your grandfather, and they will spare no pains to fill your mind with all sorts of fanatical notions. So I should not be much surprised to find you, in a few years, quite a saint. But, dear Dora, if you love me, turn a deaf ear to whatever they may tell you. Believe me, it is all delusion-nonsense. They will first try to convince you that you, my pure little Yuca, are the chief of sinners; that you have a heart blacker than old Dinah's face; that you are going straight to a place that they call hell-a lake of burning fire." 
               "Oh, Arthur!" said the child, with a shudder, drawing closer to him. 
                
               "This is all true, Dora. I am glad that you perceive how ridiculous it is. When they have frightened you half out of your wits with this idea, then they will give you some faint hope of escape. They will tell you that there is a Being named Jesus, the son of this good God, who makes the hell in which to burn the creatures of His work; and that if you will give up every pleasure of life, every single innocent amusement and recreation-never dance, laugh or sing, (unless it may be solemn psalm tunes, that seem more like mournful groans than music,) and do whatever the Son of God tells you to do, no matter what-obey Him in everything-that then you can be saved; you may escape being burned." 
               "But where do they say He is? How do they know what He wants them to do?" 
               "Now we are coming to the point. This is the snare that will entrap you. This is the rock upon which you will make ship-wreck. I came near being capsized there myself; and had not my preceptor been endowed with extraordinary soundness of mind, clearness of perception, and the power of acute reasoning, I should have been completely overturned. In short, I would have been-a saint! I was saved with difficulty. We often laugh together about it now. You see I got hold of an old Bible. You have never read that book, Dora, and I never want you to; but they will give it to you the first thing; for it is so beautifully written-there are so many true and wise things in it-the whole story seems so plausible, that it is enough to confound and bewilder any young mind. They will tell you that you must read it, in order to know what you must do, as it contains the commands of Jesus." 
               "And does it tell how He saves us?" 
               "Oh, yes that is the most thrilling part. No one can read it without being touched, even while considering it untrue. I shall never forget the emotions with which I read it the first time, nor could I banish it from my mind. And, as I said before, had I had any other man than Monsieur De Luce for my instructor, I should have been completely captivated vated. It is a book that appeals to the imagination and feelings, to the complete oversight of reason and judgment. Therefore, it would do you much injury. It would affect you much, as it did me; but you would have no watchful, solicitous Mr. De Luce at your elbow, to whose faithfulness I shall be for ever indebted. Now I shall be a man, walking untrameled by notions and creeds, with no false and cramping fears to cast their shadows in my way, guided by the pure light of reason, glorying in the powers of my intellect, I shall aim to be all that man can be." 
               "Arthur," said Dora, after a pause, "I should like to read that book." 
               "Of course," replied Arthur, playfully. "You are a little Eve; but that is the apple I forbid you to touch. I shall make only one request, Dora," said he, changing his tone to one of earnest gravity, "and I rely upon your love to keep it. You have never yet refused me anything that I have asked; you surely will keep my parting, perhaps my last request.-Do not read the Bible." 
               "But, Arthur, what harm can it do any one to believe what it teaches? Are those whom you call saints an unhappy people? Are they worse than others?" 
               "Oh, they profess to be wondrous happy, in order to attract and to deceive others; although, to my taste, they are a gloomy, moping set. They also profess to be a little better than anybody else-but few live up to their profession. To speak of them generally, to take them as a class, I know not that they are either better or worse than others; but their efforts to ignore human nature render them repulsive." 
               "Arthur," again questioned the child, after a few moments of apparently deep thought, "are you perfectly satisfied?" 
               "How, Dora, in what way?" 
               "Are you happy? Oh, Arthur! I have not just thought of this; it has been on my mind for a long time, but I feared to tell you lest you might fancy that I loved you less than I do. I used to think that if I had any one in the world to love me as tenderly and completely as you do, that I should want nothing more-that this craving would be fully met. Yet, notwithstanding we love each other so entirely, so perfectly, this yearning in my soul increases daily. Why is this, Arthur? Do you never feel it-is not your soul hungry, too?" 
               "You have an inquiring mind, Dora-it is your thirst for knowledge." 
               "No, no, Arthur! it is not my mind. It is not a longing to know, but a desire for something to rest upon, to cling to forever. But my words do not explain it. Something that will not change-that will not die. Oh, Arthur, death is horrible! I never, never want to die!" And again the little maiden sobbed piteously. 
               "Is God, then, so very good?" questioned Arthur, "to plant this longing in the hearts of his creatures that nothing can ever satisfy? Is He so very good to make us full of life and vigor, to place us in a world of beauty, which we cannot fail to love, only to have our pleasure continually checked by the thought that we must leave it all so soon-that we must lie down in the cold, dark grave-that these fair and perfect bodies must become the food for worms-that we must shrink into nothingness? It is horrible to die. Is God so very good, Dora?" 
               "Arthur," said Dora, checking her sobs, and evading a reply, "I read the other day, in a paper, that a little girl wondered, 'if the wrong side of Heaven was so beautiful, what could the right side be?' Perhaps this thinking, longing part-our souls-will be there on 'the right side,' Arthur?" 
               "I rather think," said Arthur, with an effort to speak playfully, "that it is like the painted shade at your window, yonder-the pretty colors are placed outward-we see the brightest side. But come, Dora darling, your grandfather will be worried if you stay longer in the evening air, and I desire to speak with him before I leave." 
               So the two slowly descended the hill, but lingered at the door of the cottage, that was half buried in a grove of trees, that Arthur Elwood might clasp once more the little maiden to his heart, who was dearer to him than all the world beside. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               SIX years have passed away. Within that time many changes have been wrought within the village of H--. The little cottage still peeps out from amid the elms and maples at the foot of the hill; but the aged man who dwelt there, sleeps in the church-yard at the other end of the village. A country church-yard! where the grey-haired sire, and the youths and maidens, and the little children all sleep together, with no fear of the unhallowed and revolting intrusions that in the city mar even the burial places of the dead. 
               But the little cottage is not left desolate; the minister and his wife dwell there with the orphan Dora-the precious charge consigned to them by the one who passed his life beneath its lowly roof. 
               For six years the village church has been opened. It had been closed for a long time; and for twenty years before its doors were shut they had been opened once only on the Sabbath, for a cold and indolent preacher to read a sermon; who seemed to think that in so doing he discharged his whole duty. It was not strange that after his death there was no attempt to secure another, particularly as the spirit of infidelity seemed to have been gradually undermining the spiritual condition of the people. 
               But now for six years the "glad tidings of salvation" have been faithfully and constantly sounded. Through the sweet morning air steals the music of the Sabbath-bells; while long trains of neatly dressed villagers may be seen hastening to accept the gentle yet urgent invitation. And many a one who had once scoffed at the name of Jesus of Nazareth, rejoices now to worship Him. 
               Yes, the little cottage stands there still, and a dark-eyed maiden is sitting in the porch; a maiden of rare and brilliant beauty. Her radiant face, as changeful as the heavens, where smiles and blushes quickly come and go, is turned towards a young man, whom six years of travel and of study have not so changed but that any one can readily recognise Arthur Elwood. He is seated close beside Dora, and has been talking to her long, in low, earnest tones. 
               "Yes!" he continued, "nothing has given me such joy since my return as to find you so unchanged." 
               A slight shadow fell upon the young girl's face. Soon she said, seriously, "You are mistaken, Arthur; I have not intended to deceive you, but we have had no opportunity, as yet, of talking together just as I could wish. I am greatly changed." 
               The feeling of surprise and pain that shot through Arthur's heart revealed itself upon his features, and in the tone of his voice, as he said: 
               "How, Dora? What do you mean? Am I to understand-" 
               "That I am much happier," she replied. 
               Arthur breathed more freely. "Oh!" said he, "I presume you mean you have become infected with the church-going fever, like all the rest of the people here; it is scarcely to be wondered at; I rather expected it, and am prepared for all sorts of confessions on that point; but as you have not forgotten how to laugh, nor lost any of your sweet, wild ways, I grant you absolution beforehand. I will not quarrel with you on account of your opinions, for I flatter myself that they will change in the course of a few years; yet, even if they do not, a little religion will not make you any older or uglier. I find you still quite endurable. I feared that you might be going to name a greater change." 
               "A greater?" questioned Dora, for she knew of none that could be greater. 
               "Yes; a greater, and to me a sadder one," continued Arthur. "I did not know but the pure little heart that was once all my own, might be playing truant; that you might be intending to place it in the keeping of some saint; instead of Arthur Elwood's. 
               Before Dora could reply, a middle-aged lady opened the door, and laying her hand affectionately on Dora's shoulder, said gently-"Daughter, it is time for evening worship." Then turning to Arthur, she said in a tone and manner that lacked nothing of kindness and cordiality, "We would be well pleased to have Mr. Elwood join us." 
               Mr. Elwood declined. 
               Yet the next day, and the next, saw him at Dora's side; but as his expressions of endearment plainly showed how his attachment was shaping the current of his thoughts, Dora grew more shy and reserved. There was often a look of painful thought upon her face; and her wild, clear laugh, soon ceased to ring through her cottage home; she grew pale and restless; her heart was sadly grieved. She had attempted many times in her conversations with Arthur, to lead him to speak fully and seriously upon the subject of religion. She longed to tell him how she knew by experience that its "ways were ways of pleasantness and all its paths were peace." She longed to reveal to him the everlasting truths upon which her soul was feeding; to tell him how clear the way of salvation appeared to her; for the memory of their parting conversation proved to her how ignorant he was of it. She wanted to assure him that "Love was the fulfilling of the law;" and to tell him how "God could be just, and yet the justifier of the sinner." Yet whenever she would attempt this, Arthur would invariably change the theme of discourse in some light and trifling way; he evidently desired to avoid touching any subject on which they were at variance, but would dwell with delight whenever there was unity of sentiment. He felt that it would be wiser to strengthen every tendril of affection that drew their hearts so closely together; to make Dora feel how much there was of sympathy and appreciation in his soul for her; how much there was of similarity in their natural tastes and feelings, before he risked any open avowal of their differences, which he could not but perceive were far greater than he had at first imagined; he knew her to be actuated by motives to which he was a stranger. And Dora felt this want of harmony-this soul-separation, keenly and sadly. Dear as he was to her, unspeakably dear, yet her most precious thoughts and feelings must be hidden from him; or, if uttered, they were unresponded to. When her whole soul would be glowing with love and gratitude to God, Arthur would speak eloquently and beautifully of nature; but the words seemed cold to Dora, for the Christian heart must ever "look up through nature unto nature's God." While she was striving to consecrate her powers of mind and body to glorify Him who had "purchased her with his own blood," she would behold Arthur, ever ready to assist her in relieving the poor, generous and tender, from the impulse of a naturally sensitive heart, and for her sake; but never for his Master's. 
               One day as Dora was returning from an errand of mercy, twilight and Arthur Elwood overtook her at the same time. Drawing. Dora's arm within his own, and checking her rapid pace, he said in a sorrowful tone: "Dora, you avoid me; you treat me coldly. Are we not friends? Nay, are we not more?" 
               "You know it," was Dora's almost inarticulate reply. 
               Not another word was spoken until they reached the mossy stones that still formed a rustic seat upon the summit of the hill. 
               "Now let us watch for the new moon," said Arthur. 
               "You remind me of a custom among the ancient Jews," said Dora. "The Feast of the New Moon. The High Priest and the Sanhedrim used to assemble in their hall in the temple on the evening of the new moon. Men were stationed on all the heights and watch towers, and as soon as they perceived the silver crescent rising, they would hasten to announce it at the Sanhedrim. Then the High Priest would say at once, 'The New Moon is hallowed.' The Sanhedrim would reply, 'It is hallowed.'" 
               "May this be a hallowed one to us," said Arthur, fervently. "Hallowed by the holiest of all emotions-perfect mutual love. Do you remember, Dora, when we last sat here together?" 
               "Perfectly." 
               After a little pause she continued- 
                
               "It was just such a night as this. Do you remember, Arthur, that I told you of my dread of death? I have no such fear to tell of now, I have lost it." 
               She paused again, as if waiting to be questioned; but he only said: 
               "You cannot die yet, Dora, for I cannot spare you." 
               "Do you remember, Arthur, that I told you too, that there was a yearning in my soul that nothing could satisfy? It is met now-fully met. Oh! Arthur"- 
               "Let me tell you of some of my memories," interrupted he. "Do you remember that I said, many a maiden of twelve would utter freely what in a few years she would seek to hide? Now, by the light of the new moon, I will test my prophecy. Dora, do you love any one better than your old friend Arthur?" 
               The tone of his rich voice, and the expression of his countenance, as he put this question, touched Dora deeply. It was a white face that looked up to his, but there was a calm, sweet rapture in the eyes, as she answered clearly- 
               "Yes, Arthur, there is One." 
               "Dora!" 
               "Yes, Arthur," she repeated, "there is One who has ever been more tender to me than you have in your tenderest moments; more forbearing, more forgiving than you know how to be; who has done for me far more than you can conceive, or than I can tell." 
               "Surely, Dora, not more than I would be willing to do for you?" 
               "Infinitely more. Your love, Arthur, can never equal His." 
               "Believe me, Dora, I do not merit a reproach like this; surely my cup is full enough without; and it is unlike you. Have you promised to be his?" 
               "I have." 
               The cold perspiration started upon Arthur's forehead; the blue veins seemed swollen; his face grew rigid; he attempted several times to speak, but had no power. 
               "Arthur," she continued, "will you not love Him, too?" 
                
               "Dora," said he, in a choked utterance, "if you are a woman, spare me!-have mercy!" 
               "He will be more merciful than I, dear Arthur," she continued, in the same clear, yet tenderly beseeching tone, "'like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him.'" 
               A gleam of light dawned on Arthur's mind; with a sigh of inexpressible relief, he murmured-"Dora!" 
               How changed the tone! In a few moments he resumed- 
               "I meant, is there any earthly friend, Dora, who is dearer to you than I?" 
               Dora's lips quivered, and her voice trembled slightly, but she answered unhesitatingly, "There is none." 
               "Then how many new moons from this am I to number before my Yuca will be blooming in my home? My pale, drooping little Yuca! Will you consent to come at once and bide the influence of the moon?" 
               Dora was silent. 
               "There," continued Arthur, "am I not a true prophet? I have sundry recollections of a little maid who once clung to me and begged me not to leave her, saying that her sky would be dark; that the Yuca would never shine again were the moon withdrawn. Now this same maiden sits in cold, dignified silence, when entreated to dwell in the light of this luminous body; which, I must confess, partakes more of the nature of a comet than of the moon." 
               Still Dora was silent. At last, with a great effort, which her singularly expressive face fully revealed, she murmured mournfully- 
               "Dear Arthur, do not misunderstand me; do not doubt my affection; but-the Yuca cannot be transplanted yet." 
               "When can it be, dear Dora?" 
               Again was Dora silent; and this time longer than before. At length she spoke, while a chastened light shone in her eyes- 
               "When you love Him whom my soul loveth." 
                
               "Do you expect me to turn Christian first, Dora? Is that what you mean?" asked Arthur, in astonishment. 
               "I mean that I shall never marry an unbeliever. I shall never wed one who slights or despises the meek and holy Jesus-my precious, precious Saviour! who left his Father's side, His glorious home-who took upon Him this weak human nature-who wandered here for more than thirty years, a suffering, persecuted being, that I, that you, dear Arthur, might escape a just yet fearful doom. 'For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God.' 'Yet surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon Him, and with His stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath lain on Him the iniquity of us all.' It is 'through Him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father.' 'For it pleased the Father that in Him should all fulness dwell.' I will never wed one who will refuse to kneel before the Crucified One, and pray to Him for strength to keep his marriage vow. Arthur, you have trampled long enough upon His precious blood; you have neglected and despised His holy word, taking for your wisdom and your guide the foolishness of men. Oh, Arthur-dear Arthur! be not angry with me, but your heart is far, very far from the Kingdom of God; and gladly, this night, would I lay my young yet weary head in the cold earth, and never see the sunlight or the flowers again; gladly would I suffer all that any mortal could endure, if I could thus effect your reconciliation with God!" 
               "Dora, you are rash, hasty, unreasonable. Do not speak so positively. It may be impossible for me to change. And would you cast me off forever for the sake of what is, after all, a mere matter of opinion?" 
               "A mere matter of opinion! Oh, Arthur, 'when the Son of Man shall come in His glory, with the holy angels with Him,' will it be a mere matter of opinion whether you are summoned to His right hand or to His left? Whether He says, 'Come, ye blessed of my Father,' or, 'Depart from me, ye cursed?' Is all the joy and strength of this life, all the blessedness of heaven, all the woe of hell, a mere matter of opinion? Is reality, is truth-and oh, Arthur! you know and feel, in your soul's depths, that there is truth-abiding, eternal truth-that God is true; and when he says that 'God so loved the world (so loved it, Arthur) that He gave his only 
                     begotton
                     begotten
                   Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life,' it is truth! And dare we stand and say it is a mere matter of opinion? Reject it we may, but doubt it we cannot." 
               "Dora, I do not want to argue such matters with you now. Yet I pledge you my word that I will never interfere with your religious belief; and you do not know what an influence you may have, in course of time, over even such a hardened wretch as you seem to consider me." 
               "'How knowest thou, oh, wife! that thou canst save thy husband?'" replied Dora. 
               Arthur paced up and down the hill-top in front of Dora for a long time, in silence. He knew her nature well; the passionate intensity, the strength, the depth of her affections; he knew that she spoke from firm conviction; he knew, too, that the doctrines she held were hateful to him; but he felt, never more keenly, that the being who held then was intensely dear. "Surely," thought he, "if her love is at all proportionate to mine, it will be impossible for her to turn from me." 
               Dora still sat upon her mossy seat, pale and motionless. Arthur approached her, and looking at her with earnest fondness, said, in a gently cadenced tone- 
               "Dora, I have no mother; I have no sister; they are dead. My father is a cold, proud man; proud of his wealth, and proud of his son-this seems the only bond between us. His health is now so feeble it is thought necessary for him to travel, and I shall be again compelled to leave my country home. We can start at any moment, but had intended to await your arrangements, knowing that you would be delighted lighted to visit those places where you have, in imagination, so often been. I want to take you to Italy, Dora-to your mother's home. Do you remember how you used to long to go? Have you lost that longing? Will you not come now, Dora? Or can it be that my cherished Yuca no longer needs the moonlight? Will she flourish better if it is withdrawn? Shall I-must I go without you, Dora?" 
               He saw the pain he caused; for ever those red lips were colorless, and the attitude of the form spoke volumes. 
               "Tell me, Dora, must all the beautiful dreams that I have woven from my boyhood be broken? Do you remember how I used to love to fill these little hands with flowers, and to twine the rose and lily in these rich dark braids, and proudly and fondly call you my queen? Dora, I will gather flowers for you, all my life; the choicest and the fairest. It is all I have to live for. Will you not let me? Can it be that you do not trust me?" 
               "Arthur," said she, brokenly, "do not talk so. I cannot bear it. You must go alone." 
               Arthur sprung to his feet, exclaiming bitterly, "This is what religion teaches!-that fond hearts are to be rudely severed; that vows are to be lightly broken; that hopes, pure as the heaven you believe in, are to be ruthlessly crushed; that we are privileged, at will, to blast the happiness of others. And this is woman's love! When I have heard men sneer at the constancy of women, I have smiled in my heart, as I thought, 'They know not my pure little Yuca!' When I have read of the intense devotion of woman-of love all sacrifice and suffering, 'Such,' I would say, 'is Dora's.' But, behold, your affection cannot even bide the test of a difference in opinion. Dora, you have never loved me. I am satisfied, now, that you have been deceiving yourself; that you have never cared for me as I have for you. Perhaps, when Freddie Mills comes from the seminary, you will find less difficulty in consenting to become a priest's wife. I hope you will be happy, and live in blissful forgetfulness of one who will not trouble you again." 
                
               This roused Dora; suddenly rising, she exclaimed- 
               "Arthur! you are cruel-unkind-" 
               "But you, Dora, you are kind-considerate-to inflict a life long wound upon a loving heart; to bid me go out and drift through the cold world aimless, homeless, friendless! I am all this without you." 
               "Do I suffer nothing, Arthur?" 
               The face that was lifted up to his was so white with anguish, the tone so deeply stirred with grief, that, for a moment, the young man relented. But presently turning away, he remarked- 
               "I do not understand such self-inflicted suffering. You have it in your power this night, Dora, of making a human being, one whom you profess to love, completely happy; and I think I may safely say, of increasing your own happiness; or-of banishing me from your presence forever. I tell you plainly, that I will never be a Christian; that I have no desire to believe as you do. Yet, if you positively refuse to accompany me, if you will not consent to-night to be my wife, I leave this place never to return." 
               Silently they descended the hill. At the cottage door they lingered. It is hard for loving hearts to part in tenderness, with the hope of a speedy and happy meeting; but oh! to part in coldness! to have the ties cemented by long years of kindness rudely torn away in the passion of an hour-who can bear it? 
               "Dora," said Arthur, with averted head, "your decision?" 
               "You must go alone, dear Arthur." 
               Not another word was spoken. Had he but touched her hand, her brow; had he but uttered one farewell-had he oven looked upon her, she could have borne it better. But without one caress-one word-one glance-he left her. The new moon shone upon their second parting, but its fair lustre could not brighten the night of sorrow that darkened those young hearts. Yet, "the new moon was hallowed." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               "SURELY, surely, he will come again!" murmured Dora, as evening after evening passed, but brought no Arthur. Then reports crept slowly through the village that the Elwoods were about leaving the country. As the thought pressed itself upon her that perhaps they were indeed parted forever, it seemed as though her heart would burst with anguish. 
               Oh! that she could see him but once more! was her constant sigh. Not that her resolution was shaken, but that he might speak to her once more in kindness; that he might once again say, Dora! At last, unable to endure the watching and the waiting, she stole to her room and wrote, rapidly darkening the paper with words and tears: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              ARTHUR-DEAR ARTHUR:
                            
                           You are angry with your little Dora. You are going far away: we may never meet again. If you ever hear, Arthur, that the Yuca has withered, will you not be sorry that you did not say kindly-Good-bye, little Dora-before you left her? I did not want to reproach you, Arthur, but I do not feel strong enough to bear your coldness-your anger. There is such a crushing weight upon my heart, it seems as if my soul was suffocating. Ah! were it not for Him "who is touched with the feeling of our infirmities"-who says, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee"-and that "As our day, so shall our strength be," the Yuca soon would perish. 
                           Oh, Arthur! I know that I have wounded you deeply; but are you suffering alone? Alas! in one sense, utterly alone, for you have no Heavenly support-no Comforter, to soothe and strengthen you in this or in any future trial. I forget my own sorrow when I thus think of yours. 
                           I remember a little orphan girl who once lived all alone with her aged grandfather. The child inherited her mother's passionate nature: who was a true daughter of Italy. This did not please her grandfather, for he was cold and quiet; so the child was lonely; until one day a youth came with his father to visit them. And while the older ones talked, the children looked into one another's eyes, and understood, and loved each other. The little lonely, orphan heart found at once a home. Her wildest imaginings were comprehended; there was ever a ready sympathy for the passions of grief and joy; no cold or careless word was ever uttered to check the outbursts of feeling that were native to her. And he who was by turns her teacher, play fellow, lover, friend, had the undivided affection of little Dora Raymond. A parting came. It was a sad-sad time! A year went by; a long and lonely year. A strange lady and gentleman had been living with Dora and her grandfather, but the child would have nothing to do with them, for it was the minister and his wife, and Arthur did not love them. Then Dora's grandfather was taken ill; and oh! how kind they were. They read to him, and nursed him, and prayed for him. The seventh night that he was sick he called the child to him and said-"Dora, believe as these good people do; listen to their teaching; receive it; obey it; for they are right." The next morning he was cold and still, and never spoke again. Then the child fell sick; she had been grieving long for Arthur, and now death seemed so strange and dreadful to her, that for weeks she lay in a burning fever, quite delirious, and they thought that she too would die! 
                           One day she had been sleeping; when she awoke she knew the kind face that was bending over her; she recognised the minister's wife. She saw, too, a book lying on the little table by her bed side. "What book is that?" she asked. The lady looked pleased to see the child restored to reason, and answered, oh! so sweetly: "The Bible, darling." 
                           "Take it away! Take it away! Quick-quick; I will never have it near me; I will never read it-never!" shrieked the child; for she thought of Arthur's parting words-"Dora, do not read the Bible!" 
                           The lady quietly removed the book; but the next day, when the child awoke, she sat reading aloud, hidden by a screen. And she read sweet and wondrous words. Oh! it made more music than the singing of the birds. Day after day the lady sat and read, and the child listened with increasing interest, until she could no longer hear of that gracious Saviour asking: "Lovest thou Me?" without responding with Peter: "Lord, thou knowest that I love thee." 
                           So when the child grew well, she read the Bible for her Saviour's sake; and kept longing for the time when Arthur should come, that they might sit and read it together. 
                           When Arthur came she had learned to love the Holy One more than she did him; and desired to do all things for His glory. And she felt that it could not be for His glory to wed one who loved Him not; for the Bible says: "Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers." "What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? Come out from among them, and be separate, saith the Lord-and I will receive you, and will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters." Again-"Can two walk together except they be agreed?" 
                           Oh, Arthur! this parting is sad! sad! sad! Notwithstanding I am conscious of doing right, my heart is sorely smitten. After looking forward from my earliest years to the time when we should always be together-when we should never, never more be parted-the sudden and painful result of our last conversation almost crushes me. 
                           I tell you of all this, dear Arthur, that you may know that I have never forgotten any of your care and tenderness; that I am grateful to you for the gladness you gave me in my childhood; for the love you once bore me; nay! for the affection that you can never wholly stifle, even if you try. And also, that when you think of my sorrow, it may cause you to feel less sternly towards me. No one can ever take your place; and when the spirit of Truth leads you into all Truth, when you have taken my Saviour to be your Saviour, if I should be living, and you should still be caring for your little Dora, she will be ready to go with you anywhere, to work in Our Master's Vineyard; to dwell in our hillside cottage, or far away in a distant land. 
                           Arthur, I send you my little Bible. I have nothing more precious to give you. I know that you will read it. Perhaps not right away; but in some lonely hour, when your anger has all passed away, and softer thoughts flow in, you will remember a little loving thing that clung to you, and does still, dear Arthur, and amid the memories of our great love and sorrow that will haunt you then, you will read it for the giver's sake. And I shall pray that as you read, the Spirit of God may make you "behold wondrous things out of his law." 
                           Oh, Arthur! marriage is such a solemn, high, mysterious ordinance, So holy-so significant! It is a type of Christ and His church. 
                            
                           The heads of a family ought to be the vicegerents of God. Every household is intended to be a royal priesthood. The Father-the High Priest. Who, without the grace of God, is sufficient for all this? 
                           Ah! that preparation made by the High Priest before entering into the "Holy of Holies," may well typify what an engagement of marriage should be:-a time set apart for serious thought, and sanctified by mutual prayer, so that we might indeed enter into this sacred relation with reverence; with hearts humbled and purified, that the deep spiritual purpose of wedded life would be answered. 
                           Not marriage only, but life itself, dear Arthur, will have a mighty meaning to you; it will be enlarged to new and noble depths, when you have learned to study and to love the Bible. You will find, too, that when you embrace the Saviour here revealed, how he can strengthen the weakest; how he can enable a suffering, lonely, yearning, human heart to endure and to live contentedly, rejoicing to bear, and to do His will. 
                           Good night, dear Arthur! May God convince you of your need, and lead you to Himself, blessing you forever, prays 
                           
                              DORA RAYMOND.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               A week went by; no answer came. The Elwoods had gone, but the little Bible was not returned. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               TEN years have passed since that sad parting. The village has enlarged and improved, so also has the church; and a pretty new rectory stands by its side. Little Freddie, now the Rev. Mr. Mills dwells there; but he could not prevail upon Dora to share his home, for she still thought ever upon one who was wandering through the world, with his hopes blighted and his heart 
                     dimned
                     dimmed
                  ; so a fair, blue-eyed girl became the young minister's bride. Strangers dwell in Dora's cottage; her faithful friends, the minister and his wife, have now a home in a great city. 
               But where is Dora? 
               Far away on the shores of India she is telling the story of a Saviour's love to the benighted heathen. 
               "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature"-sounded in her ears. Moved with compassion for perishing souls, "constrained by the love of Christ," Dora yearned to go forth to win souls precious as her own to Him; she longed to reveal a waiting, pardoning, loving Saviour, to those sitting in the "darkness of the shadow of death." But when she made known her desire, the tender opposition, the loving remonstrances with which she met, were hard to withstand; for Dora had become to the minister and his wife as their own daughter; with all a daughter's love, with all a daughter's privileges. Notwithstanding their ardent love for, and constant labor in the one great cause, they were as yet unprepared to make this sacrifice-to give their "one little ewe lamb!" 
               How could they part with her? their only one! the developement of whose mind they had watched with unceasing care and delight, for its unfoldings betokened talents of a high order; the pen of the ready writer, and the tongue of the eloquent conversationist. This rare jewel that was sparkling so brightly on the bosom of the cultivated and congenial society by which they were surrounded in their city-home, attracting, by its worth and brilliancy, the admiring gaze of all! Could it be, that this uncommon beauty of personal appearance, these rich mental gifts, were to be laid upon that one altar? Must the strong, peculiar ties of love that bound these three fond hearts together, so soon be severed? What! a delicate maiden, in her youthful beauty, to leave their watchful care and tenderness, to go far away from everything her heart held dear, to dwell amid strangers, surrounded by barbarism, which, to her sensitive nature and refined taste, would be so excessively abhorrent-how could it be? "Ah!" they would whisper sadly to each other, "If she were going forth with a companion; some chosen one to whom she had plighted her young faith, to whom she could look for guidance and protection, we could bear it better!" for they knew so well that woman's life is in her love; such is her nature that she joys to labor and to suffer with the loved one. But no such attraction tempted Dora Raymond; no such alleviation softened her pathway. Yet, with unshaken resolution, she spent two years in careful, thorough preparation for the great work, and, at the age of twenty-two, went forth alone to teach the religion of our Lord Jesus Christ to the benighted heathen in India. 
               God only witnessed the struggles of that young spirit when the hour of parting came; the blessed Saviour alone could soothe those intense heart-pangs which were hers, as she bade adieu to her many warm and admiring friends, to the social circle of which she had become the very life; to the faithful pastor whom her heart called "father!" to the lovely being to whom, "with a gush of feeling that no time could tame," she had long since given the holy name of "mother!" to her beloved country, whose green hills she was to tread no more, nor gaze again on its scenes of marvelous beauty- 
                      
                        "The land of her birth! 
                        The fairest, the dearest, the brightest on earth!" 
                     
                  
                
               Yet Dora knew that the One who had given her power, not merely to break sweet, girlish dreams of ideal bliss, but to restrain the almost irresistible promptings of a love that had grown too deep into her soul ever to be quenched-that first love of her youth! which, in her impassioned nature, "warmed every vein, and beat in every pulse"-He who gave her power to surrender at His word that precious, coveted treasure, that choicest boon, the consummation of her early love-to walk by Arthur's side, to share his life-surely He would not forsake her now! No! she would go forth believing that "as her day so would her strength be:"-"claiming God as her Father, Heaven as her home, and redemption by the blood of the Lamb as her everlasting portion." She went forth alone!-yet "leaning upon the arm of her Beloved!"
                     Miss THEODOSIA BARKER sailed under similar circumstances as Missionary to China at the early age of seventeen.
                  -a spectacle for men and angels! an unsullied picture of heroic grandeur! rather, a sublime proof of the strength of Jesus made perfect in weakness: and were there not another such example in the world, it alone would be sufficient to prove the vigor of Christian principle; the power of Gospel-truth upon one mind and heart; and yet more, the perfect sufficiency of Jesus, the believer's portion. 
               There is nothing which so proves the truth of Christianity, which so clearly demonstrates to the world the sincerity of those who have embraced it, the reality of their convictions, and the power of the Gospel over their minds and hearts, as the lives of our Missionaries.
                
               No candid mind can read the life of Henry Martyn, of Judson, of Samuel Mills, or of any other God-directed man, and call their zeal and devotion to the noblest cause in which the energies of man were ever enlisted, mere enthusiasm. 
               Truth ever carries with it irresistible conviction. We may struggle to free ourselves from its firm grasp; we may close our eyes to shut out her steadfast, penetrating gaze; we may even encourage our imagination to picture her calm, pure features distorted into the grimaces of Error; but her grasp is too firm to be shaken off, her glance too deep to be forgotten, her features too singularly her own to be mistaken; and every soul will be forced some day to bow publicly at her shrine, and yield (even though it be an unwilling homage) the honor due unto her name. 
               And what can so hasten that glorious day as Missionary labor? What so arrest and convince the minds of the careless and unbelieving of our own land as Missionary intelligence? What so stir the hearts of believing ones, urging them to greater diligence, to more earnest effort, than these same "glad tidings?" Or what can make us press more unitedly or more closely in the footprints of the first great Missionary, our gracious Saviour, than to view the bright example of some frail child by whose glowing light we plainly see that He will give to the weakest of us grace and strength to be as He was in this world? 
               "God created man in his own image." Never does he seem more God-like than when, in the noble spirit of self-denial, he rises superior to all the allurements of luxury and ease, resisting the inclination of a delicate taste for refined and cultivated society, severing the tenderest yet strongest tie woven around the heart of man, domestic love, resigning all this cheerfully, nay joyfully, at the voice of his Beloved-"Arise, and come away." 
               Yet we naturally look to man for great deeds, for noble achievements, whether it be in the physical, intellectual, or moral world: he is fitted to cope with difficulties, and to endure hardships; consequently, whenever we idealize him, we make of him a hero. Therefore, when a young man, in the first flush of vigorous manhood, with the glowing energies and buoyant feelings of youth, just blending with the deepened and more expansive thought of maturer years, with talents that would make him the very life of the social circle, or win for him the plaudits of a multitude who would crown him with the diadem of fame-when such a one comes forward, and lays every gift upon this one altar-at a Saviour's feet-counting it a priceless privilege to forsake all, that he may bear one gleam of light to some far off, darkened land,-although he commands our highest admiration, and deepest sympathy, yet the consecration is not as sublimely touching as when the devotee is a woman!
                
               Delicate, shrinking, dependent woman! formed to be cherished and protected; ever seeking, like the tendrils of some vine, for something to cling to, to lean upon; her heart ever tremulous with 'flushing sympathies' and intense yearnings for affection; trembling with exquisite joy of sorrow, like the petals of some delicate flower at every passing breeze. What a contrast to the high, bold, courageous heart of man! Tell me, what could so nerve that timid heart, or sustain that shrinking spirit, that it could go forth alone, a stranger, to some sin and sorrow-darkened clime, to whisper if it be to but one erring soul-"The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin." Would you tell me it was enthusiasm, or girlish dreams of romance? There is not a soul in the Universe but what, should it answer true to its own convictions, would say-it is prompted by the Spirit of God, and upheld by the Arm of Omnipotence.
                
               I said ten years had passed since that sad parting. During four of those years Dora had resided in a great city, where the minister and his wife, under God's good Providence, had been called to labor in a wider sphere, and where they are still telling the sweet story of the Cross, "praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord is adding to the Church daily such as shall be saved." 
                
               During the four years that Dora remained with them there, she enjoyed great advantages, and gathered rich materials to carry with her to the far-off isles, to aid her in her holy work of love, which she has been diligently pursuing, amid trials and discouragements for nearly five years: yet feeling that her efforts have been more than blessed, as she numbers the little band of redeemed ones, that, through the instrumentality of her faithful teaching and unceasing prayers, and by the light of her beautiful example, have been won to renounce their idols, and to serve the true and living God. 
               Ah, Dora! there is a crown awaiting you in glory, radiant with the light reserved for those that "turn many to righteousness," which you may well cast low at the foot of Him who has thus given you grace to conquer. And yet, before you wear that crown, there is an earthly joy in store for you that you dream not of. The prayers that daily and nightly you have offered in Christ's name, for one whose wanderings pierced your young soul with woe unutterable, have been heard and answered. 
               For lo! amid a package of letters just received from her loved America, is one that Dora little thought to see. It reads thus:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              DORA:
                            
                           I am coming to labor with you. If the will of God be so, the next steamer will bring me to your side. I have been sick and have suffered much in many ways since last we met. Yet I am richer than when we parted, for I have found the "pearl of great price." From the time that I found this treasure, from the moment that I asked humbly and sincerely, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" my way was clear. I felt it to be my highest privilege to carry light to those who sit in darkness. And I have been preparing, or rather, I trust that the Lord has been preparing me, to be a faithful missionary in a foreign land. 
                           Last week I made my way to our village, believing the report that reached me long ago, that you and Freddie Mills were living happily together in the new Rectory; but I longed to see you once again, if only to ask your forgiveness for the pain I once caused you, and to bless you, Dora, for the peace and joy that is now my portion. I then heard for the first time, can I say with what delight? that my Yuca was blooming on a foreign shore. 
                           Your little Bible, Dora-your precious gift, has been dearer to me than aught else in the world. I did not read it, nor the letter that accompanied it, for many a long month. I had not the heart to return it, nor did I dare to trust myself to look on words that you had written, for I was trying to steel my heart against you, and endeavoring to believe myself deeply injured; yet I knew that a single word from you would bring me at once to your side; therefore I opened neither. 
                           I had said that I would not be a Christian, and oh! how long did I resist the strivings of the Spirit. My early education, under the superintendence of a French infidel, my constant intercourse with him for six years, as my traveling companion, and the sad fact of my having given myself much to the study of strange German philosophies, had well nigh annihilated any feeling of devotion or reverence that I might once have had. I was, as you know, a professed infidel; yet, in heart, I never once doubted the existence of God, nor do I believe there is a living man who does. 
                           Dora, when I was last in France, I was summoned to the bed-side of a dying man; it was my tutor, Mr Deluce. What passed is too horrible to relate. Suffice it to say, he sought repentance carefully, but found none. Like Esau, he cried out for a blessing, but he had long since bartered it away. 
                           After that I read your Bible; and I found, indeed, that "the word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart." 
                           I was convinced of its truth. Your words occurred to me. Doubt I could not, but reject I could, and did. 
                           Soon after this my father died, and died believing, through the instrumentality of a converted sailor. He sleeps beneath the blue waves of the Atlantic. Still I refused to yield to that Power which, sooner or later, we must acknowledge Almighty! I wandered about the earth, a miserable, aimless being, wasting the precious time and talents allotted to my keeping. I shudder to recall those misspent years. 
                           Then sickness, and a train of painful circumstances overtook me. I awoke once in the middle of the night, and it seemed to me that I heard you say-"Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him." Then again-"God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." 
                           Again I turned to your Bible, and read it as I had not before, with earnest prayer, and my eyes were opened; by its purity, I beheld my exceeding sinfulness: yet at the same time I saw the Saviour, "full of grace and truth"-"altogether lovely!" and understood perfectly, how and why we could be "accepted only in the Beloved." Then how clear and refreshing seemed the truths you uttered on the hill-side, the night of that bitter yet fruitful parting; aye, fruitful! for you convinced me then of the reality of your piety and the preciousness of your Saviour. 
                           I then wrote to you immediately, but I suppose the letter never reached you, as I received no answer. And now, that I have come to seek you, I find a lonely village without my Dora; a lonely cottage by the hill-side without my flowering Yuca. But I trust that we will watch together as in years gone by, the new moon of the coming April. May it be indeed a hallowed one! for underneath its mild radiance we will not only renew our vows to each other, but consecrate ourselves, all that we have, and are, to the service of Him whom we will strive yet more earnestly, to "worship in the beauty of holiness." For from henceforth, dear Dora, with the permission that I humbly believe you will not withhold, "Whither thou goest I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, und thy God shall be my God. Where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried." 
                           
                              Your repentant friend, 
                              ARTHUR ELWOOD.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
         
       
   
