
    ----CITATION----
        Coppinger, John B.. The Renegade .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6163 wright2-0632
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE RENEGADE.
               A TALE OF REAL LIFE.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               SHERMAN & CO., 1 VESEY STREET.
            
            1855
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1855, BY SHERMAN &
                  CO., in the Clerk's office of the District Court of the Southern District of New
                  York.
            
         
         
            DEDICATION.
            TO HER, WHO, INDULGENT IN THE TIME OF PROSPERITY, FAITHFUL IN THAT OF
               ADVERSITY, FIRM IN THE HOUR OF TRIAL, UNWAVERING ALWAYS IN AFFECTION,
               DEVOTION, AND TRUTH; WHO HAS EVER BEEN CONSISTENT AND SINCERE IN ALL
               THAT A MOTHER CAN BE; THIS VOLUME IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED BY
               HER GRATEFUL SON,
            
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
         
         
            
            TEXT.
            "HUMAN Nature is the same all the world over. As descendants from one common stock,
               all mankind are imbued with similar powers, faculties and passions; possess the same
               virtues and are subject to the like vices; differing, among the several races, only
               in degree, as education has inclined, or the force of circumstances produced. The
               material of our composition is always the same; put together after one unvarying
               fashion to perform similar functions in all, and the whole structure, moved by like
               springs of action, is endowed with one common nature,—'the effort for life;'—and one
               chief purpose,—'the pursuit of individual happiness.'" COPPINGER'S
                  Lectures.
            
         
      
      
         
            The renegade
            THE RENEGADE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE FRIENDS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "At the peep of dawn,
                           Brushing, with hasty steps, the dews away,
                           To meet the sun upon the upland lawn."
                        
                     
                     —GREY.
                  
               
               'TIS on a June morning, in the year eighteen hundred and odd, that our narrative
                  commences. The mists that hung upon the waters of the Couchichene, were rolling
                  upward on the hills before the sun light, which advanced above the trees, as two
                  men emerged from the woods, and stepped upon the beach. They were both attired in
                  the fanciful garb of western hunters, and wore their buckskins richly embroidered
                  with porcupine quils, and plentifully befringed and dyed in bright colors; but it
                  was plain to see they were not of the class which their dress betokened. The
                  elder, tall and finely proportioned, appeared to be about thirty years of age, and
                  exhibited to advantage, as he stood leaning upon his rifle, the graceful outlines
                  of a figure whose swelling muscles indicated the possession of both vigor and
                  elasticity. His handsome face, bronzed by exposure sure to the weather, had the frank expression which
                  belongs to a nature full of warm and generous attributes; though his forehead bore
                  the traces of thought, and his slightly straightened brows communicated a cast of
                  sternness to his features which otherwise did not seem to belong to them. This,
                  however, was relieved by the sparkle of his hazle eyes, whose quick and earnest
                  glance, telling of an impulsive spirit within, often lighted with enthusiasm or
                  mirth, and rendered the expression of his countenance eminently pleasing. This was
                  Richard Wood.
               His companion, Frank Bramley, was a much younger man—probably not more than twenty
                  years of age—and though somewhat less in stature than his friend, yet, the light
                  and active movements of his well formed and sinewy limbs seemed to indicate a
                  frame well fitted for endurance; and the animated expression of his dark grey
                  eyes, was full of the confident spirit of youth, impatient for action.
               As the friends advanced along the shore, the curtain of night was lifted from the
                  landscape, and disclosed a scene of rich and tranquil beauty. The small lake of
                  Couchichene, like a diamond in an emerald setting, lay placidly before them,
                  glistening in the first rays of the rising sun; while the deep green foliage,
                  fresh with the dew, shone in abundant richness on every side. But no sign of human
                  life was there: on the islands, in the bay, and along the deep wooded shores,
                  nature held, her undisputed rule, and now, in conscious loveliness and
                  sovereignty, smiled a welcome on returning day. The wild bird started from his
                  nest with notes of joy, and sang aloud as he hovered on the wing to view his gay
                  plumage mirrored in the lake; and the emulous perch, awakened by the Tocoto's*
                   song, darted from his rocky bed, and leaping in the air, showed his gold
                  and silver scales in the new-born light. The red deer, too, was there, and sported
                  in the bays,—the timid fawn browsed upon the bank, and the wild bees' hum and the
                  sweet briar's breath lent their charms to the scene, which our two friends now
                  stood silently contemplating.
               
                  
                  *A large and beautiful bird, of the crane kind, described by naturalists as
                     the flamingo. They are seen, at the break of day, flying down from the
                     hills, conducting each other with a trumpet cry, which sounds like the word
                     tocoto, from whence the Indians have given them the
                     name.
               
               For many minutes they continued thus, each apparently wrapped in his own
                  reflections, as he suffered his gaze to wander over the prospect spread out before
                  them, until Wood, starting from his reverie, abruptly broke the spell.
               "Come Frank," said he, addressing his companion, "you are too young to look so
                  serious. Lay aside your melancholy mood, and let us push, on to Orillia; for if I
                  mistake not, yonder canoes, which dart along within the shadow of the willows at
                  the end of the lake, have their prows turned that way, and doubtless contain a
                  party coming from the prairies to trade at the village."
               "You are right, Dick," said the other, catching up his rifle; "lead on. But I
                  could not help making a mental review of the emotions which stir within me when I
                  look upon a scene like this. And as 
                     
                        'In contemplation of created things,
                        By steps we may ascend to God,'
                     
                   it seems to me that I get nearer to Him the further I recede from the
                  habitations of my people, and advance into the vast territories, where nature
                  lives as she was born. I am sure, Dick,
                  that although it is but some three or four weeks since we left our homes in the
                  South, that I am more than as many years older in a knowledge of myself, and have
                  learned more of His goodness, power and glory, than I did in all the years I was
                  at college, put together."
               "That might easily be, Frank," answered the other; "for it is precious little
                  theology they teach at college. And I agree with you, that to acquire a firm
                  spirit of self-reliance, and abundant food for a few wholesome reflections on the
                  value of civilization, in reference to the moral or physical improvement of our
                  species, and the actual necessities for human happiness, there is nothing better
                  than a life in the forest, and an acquaintance with its primitive
                  inhabitants."
               "Why, Dick, you surely do not mean to become a second Robinson Crusoe, and live in
                  a cave far away in the woods, upon wild honey and meditation?"
               "Not exactly," he answered; "but my experience of men has not impressed me very
                  favorably of their morality, or what they seem to understand as their duties in
                  their social character; and I have, therefore, a mind to see them as they were
                  created—to observe them in their primitive simplicity, and learn whether love and
                  friendship—"
               "Stop, Dick, stop," interposed his friend, "I know what you would say; let us have
                  no more of this crusade against what you would call the selfishness and
                  ingratitude of man. I no more believe him to be the false, mean thing you describe
                  him, than I believe in the nursery fables of spirits from the land of shades."
               "It would be vain, my dear Frank, for me to hope that your experience might not
                  alter your convictions; for as surely as you live, if you mingle in the world, you
                  will come to think as I do."
               "I hope that it is not your experience that has taught you to speak
                  thus," said his young friend, earnestly.
               "Yes, Frank," he answered, seriously, "it is from experience I speak. The finest
                  feelings of my soul were cut off in their early flowering by the act of one I
                  thought a friend; and the first yearnings of a young and sensitive heart were
                  plucked out by the hand that planted them there, and their warmth chilled by the
                  same breath that made them glow."
               "A sad experience, truly," said the young man, thoughtfully; "but still, I cannot
                  think that it will serve for the history of all mankind. But how do you account
                  for a proclivity so inconsistent with moral rectitude?"
               "Self-love is the first great cause; for dear self, men barter their honor, their
                  conscience, and their very souls; and do you think, then, they would stickle at
                  friendships? No! if friends can be used as stepping-stones to power, or place, or
                  wealth, they are walked over without scruple, and having served the turn, are not
                  unfrequently despised, and always forgotten for new favorites who have something
                  in their gift. The wounded heart bleeds for a while from every pore, and then
                  heals up, covered with unsightly and callous seams; it is no longer sensitive to
                  the faintest touch, and coming daily to a better-knowledge of worldly wisdom,
                  insensibly adopts the same selfish principles, and in turn imolates its victims at
                  the shrine of friendship."
               "And do you expect me to believe," said the young man, "that mankind will turn
                  ingrates for the mere possession of the
                  objects of their ambition, be it whatever it may, place, or wealth, or power?"
               "Even so," he answered, "but you confound terms; wealth is power. I
                  remember to have read, many years ago, a fable of Quevedo, which illustrates the
                  point: The poet, in the course of an allegorical journey, meets with Death, who
                  shows him three armed spectres of human shape, 'so like one another,' says the
                  author, 'that I could not say which was which;' they were engaged in fierce
                  contest with a fearful and misshapen monster:—
               "'Knowest thou these?' quoth Death, halting abruptly and facing me.
               "'No, indeed,' said I; 'and I shall insert in my Litany to be forever delivered
                  from the honor of their acquaintance.'
               "'Fool,' answered Death, 'these are already thy old acquaintance; nay, thou hast
                  known scarcely any other since thy birth. They are the capital enemies of thy
                  soul—the World, the Flesh, and the Devil. So much do they resemble each other,
                  that, in effect, he who hath one hath all. The ambitious clasps the World to his
                  heart, and lo! it is the Devil! The lecher embraces the Flesh, and the Devil is in
                  his arms!'
               "'But who,' said I, 'is this enemy against whom they fight?'
               "'It is the Fiend of Money,' answered Death; 'a boastful demon, who maintains that
                  he alone is equal to all the three; and that where he comes, there is
                  no need of them.'
               
               "'Ah!' said I, 'the Fiend of Money hath the better end of the staff!'
               "This fable," continued Wood, "illustrates the point exactly. The World, the
                  Flesh, and the Devil are a formidable trinity; but the Fiend of Money is a match
                  for them all—he has the better end of the staff. And thus I make it out, wealth is
                  power: for the possession of which selfish man will trample his friend into the
                  dust, or risk his everlasting happiness."
               "I'll not believe it, Dick," said the other, warmly.
               "It is wretched morality, and worse philosophy. I do not think the Arch-Fiend
                  himself could concoct a more diabolical scheme to destroy mankind. I know you
                  think we are all born to be miserable, and are constantly quoting Prior to prove: 
                     
                        'Who breathes, must suffer; and who thinks, must mourn;
                        And he alone is blessed who ne'er was born;'
                     
                   but I never will subscribe to so gloomy a doctrine. It is true, we meet with
                  disappointments and trials in life, and have our regrets and sorrows; but they are
                  mingled with treasured memories, which grow dearer by the contrast as they soften
                  together in the distance of time. The past is the perspective against which we
                  paint the foreground of the present, and these varied experiences are the lights
                  and shadows which divide the subject and relieve it of monotony. To carry our
                  troubles about with us is worse than to sit, like Damocles, beneath the suspended
                  sword of Dionysius of Syracuse; and besides which, it is useless, for the world is
                  neither as bad as you take it to be, nor can our miseries last forever. 
                     
                        "After long storms and tempests overblowne,
                        The sunne at length his joyous face doth cleare;
                        So when as Fortune all her spight hath shone,
                        Some blissful hours at last must needes appeare—
                        Else should afflicted wights oft times despeire."
                     
                  
               
               
               As he ceased speaking, they entered the Indian trading village of Orillia, at the
                  same moment that a large party of the Chippewas ran their canoes in upon the
                  beach.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE ACCIDENT.
               
                  
                     
                        "O call not to my mind what you have done!
                        It sets a debt of that account before me,
                        "Which shows me poor and bankrupt even in thanks!"
                     
                  
               
               THE lake of Couchichene, studded with numerous picturesque islands, is fed chiefly
                  by the severn river, the waters of which, entering at the northern extremity, play
                  along its indented shores to the south, where they empty through the narrows into
                  lake Simcoe.
               In a deep sheltered bay, on the eastern shore of the lake stood the village of
                  Orillia, a trading post, to which large numbers of the Indians from the interior
                  were in the habit of resorting for the purposes of barter. Here they exchanged
                  their furs for such commodities as they needed or could procure, and then again
                  sought their homes in the unexplored regions to the north and west.
               The party in question were under the direction of Nishtagau, a noted war chief of
                  the Chippeway tribe; the story of whose exploits and prowess was a favorite theme
                  with the hardy bushrangers, when assembled round their camp fires at night. They
                  loved to tell of his deeds in war, and of his skill in the chase; and dwelt with
                  infinite zest upon the murderous doings of his rifle, and the bloody effects of
                  his knife. They told of his wild feats and desperate daring, and how, 
                     
                        "By his rare example, he made the coward
                        Turn terror into sport; as waves before
                        A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
                        And fell below his stern."
                     
                  
               
               The name and fame of this great chief, therefore, was not unfamiliar to the
                  friends, and they strove to recommend themselves to his notice and friendship; for
                  it was part of their plan to be allowed to travel with his party, if not to become
                  his actual guests. But he some what haughtily discouraged these attempts towards a
                  better acquaintance, and his men, taking the humor from him, continued shy, and
                  kept themselves aloof.
               One by one, as the day advanced, the Indians shouldered their packs and betook
                  themselves to the lake shore, where their companions were variously occupied in
                  cooking, eating and loading their canoes, preparatory to departing to the
                  rendezvous at the head of the lake, were they would meet a strong party of their
                  tribe returning from an expedition against the savages of the rice lakes.
               Here the young men, still wishing to keep the Indians in sight, soon after found
                  themselves; and provided with hook and line, took their seats near the end of a
                  rudely constructed wharf, and began fishing. Their position was some distance
                  apart from the savages, though they could command a perfect view of the whole
                  party. They sat for some time in silence, looking into the dark carrent which
                  swept past them in eddying circles, and listlessly continued their occupation,
                  only occasionally glancing towards
                  Nishtagau, whose large person was conspicuous among his people.
               "In good truth," said the elder, at length breaking silence, as he looked more
                  fixedly towards the chief, "he is a man of noble mien, and well becomes his
                  gigantic proportions. Did you learn his height?"
               "Yes—he is said to be nearly seven feet in height when he stands erect; but he
                  begins to stoop a little now, for he bears the weight of sixty-four winters upon
                  his shoulders, though their snows have not whitened his head."
               "He was evidently born to rule," said Wood, again looking earnestly at the chief,
                  "and that expansive brow and eagle glance were given to command."
               "He is, indeed," the other added, "a handsome and noble specimen of physical
                  manhood; but he is too stern, and puts me in mind, at this moment, as he directs
                  the movements of his men with a motion of his hand, of Asdrubal marshalling his
                  hordes with a glance of his eye."
               "I do not think, Frank," said his friend, "that he is quite so terrible as all
                  that; but despite the expression of his countenance, and notwithstanding his
                  education, he is said to be a man of many virtues, much kindness of heart, and
                  hospitality besides."
               "If all this be so, Dick, why not go at once and frankly tell him who we are, and
                  that we desire to visit his country."
               "That is very easily said," answered the other; "but it is a somewhat delicate
                  thing to ask a stranger to take you home with him and give you something to eat;
                  for that is just what it comes to in plain English."
               "It may come to that in English, Dick, but I do not think, if what you say of him
                  is true, that the Indian would understand it so. You forget, we are speaking of
                  conventionalities which—"
               At this moment a splash in the water, followed by a half-stifled cry, attracted
                  their attention, and looking round they discovered an Indian child, who, escaping
                  from its mother, had crept along the dock towards them and fallen over into the
                  hurrying current beneath. The accident had not been perceived from the shore, and
                  but for the presence of the young men, the child would have inevitably been lost,
                  without leaving a trace behind to tell its untimely fate.
               The same impulse seized both the friends, who simultaneously jumped towards the
                  water; but Bramley's generous intention was thwarted and himself placed hors du combat by the unexpected interference of his
                  coat-tails. Now, coat-tails are both useful and ornamental to their wearer so long
                  as they confine themselves to the legitimate purposes they were designed to
                  fulfill, but when they take upon themselves anything more, they cease to be either
                  one or the other. And this is just what happened in the present case. A small
                  brace of pistols, which Bramley carried in the skirt pockets, had slipped through
                  a crack in the wharf, carrying with them a part of the appendage spoken of, which,
                  as he sprung from his seat, caught on the under side of the crevice and held him
                  suspended over the edge, about up to his knees in water.
               "Never mind me, Dick," said he, attempting to release himself, and struggling with
                  his arms and legs very much after the fashion of a fly who is pinned to the wall,
                  "never mind me, but look out for the child."
               Wood had not paused, however, but with the boy sustained in one hand, was already swimming towards
                  the shore, where he presently landed and delivered him into the hands of Nishtagau
                  himself, who advanced to receive him.
               No words were uttered by the old man as he received his son, but with
                  characteristic Indian gravity simply extended his hand, which the other promptly
                  accepted.
               "I must now go and look after my friend," said he, turning to leave.
               "Here I am," said Bramley, climbing up the bank.
               "Why, Frank! how did you free yourself?"
               "By ripping the seam of my coat sleeve, which disengaged one arm and enabled me to
                  draw the other out as I fell into the water."
               "Well done; but here comes Nishtagau and a woman; let us hear what they have to
                  say."
               The old chief, who had retired while the friends were speaking, now advanced,
                  followed by an Indian woman, of middle age, bearing the rescued boy in her arms.
                  They stopped in front of Wood, and the old man, taking his hand in his own,
                  said:
               "The mother would kiss the strong hand that dashed the waves aside and snatched
                  her infant from the arms of Death;"—and presenting it to the female, she knelt and
                  timidly saluted it.
               The emotions of a heart, which is as modest as it is generous, when surprised in a
                  moment like this, rush tumultuously along, without giving time or opportunity to
                  analyze or follow them; and its possessor is thus left in a real perplexity how to
                  act. This was now the case with Wood, who suddenly and unexpectedly became the
                  unwilling centre of observation to a group of admiring savages. At his feet
                  stooped the light and slender der figure of the mother, supporting her child, her
                  eyes raised to his face and tears of grateful feeling trembling on their lids. The
                  giant form of the father and husband, surrounded at a little distance by all the
                  warriors in his party silently looking on, their swarthy features, dimly seen,
                  wearing an expression of sympathy, and their bulky forms in attitudes of respect,
                  blending in the twilight their outlines with the shadow of the woods around. The
                  air was still, the birds hushed their songs, and tranquil nature was settling to
                  her rest.
               At length, the woman broke the silence:
               "Oconee's heart is full; her tongue has no words, and her lips are dumb; but her
                  eyes would grow young and shine like the stars, could they see the pale-face in
                  the home of the Chippeways, and her hands should be busy and her feet need no rest
                  to make him happy forever."
               "And Nishtagau," said the chief, "will welcome the pale-face as his brother; his
                  people will welcome him, and he shall be great in the hearts of the
                  Chippeways."
               "We will go," answered Wood.
               "It is good; and when to-morrow's sun peeps over yonder hills, Nishtagau will meet
                  his brother where the willows drink at the mouth of the Severn."
               He retired as he finished speaking, followed by Oconee; and the whole party were
                  soon after embarked and lost to sight in the deepening gloom of night.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               THE RENDEZVOUS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           They gain in morning's hour a lonely isle,
                           To them the very sands appear to smile,
                           And the hoarse sea-bird's shrill, discordant shriek,
                           Seems like a welcome from his tuneless beak."
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               NEVER shone the sun more brightly than on the following morning; and as its genial
                  rays rapidly resolved the vaporous mantle which yet clothed the hilly distance to
                  the west, the two friends sprung their light canoe over the glistening waters of
                  Couchichene.
               The little vessel seemed to partake of the spirits of those within, and flew
                  merrily along with still increasing speed as the restless paddles, plied by
                  vigorous arms, sent the bright foam whirling away behind her. The silver trout
                  peeped forth to know the reason of such unusual commotion—the loon, dismayed,
                  screamed discordantly as he dived beneath, and the red deer, startled from his
                  bath, hid among the trees that were racing past upon the shore—while the young
                  men, giving way to the wild excitement of the moment, strained every nerve until
                  their little bark dashed between, the willows at the rendezvous.
               They were met, upon landing, by Nishtagau, who conducted them through an extensive
                  encampment to his wigwaum, where Oconee was just preparing to set forth the
                  results of her culinary efforts. She paused in her work to greet them warmly as
                  they entered, and leading the way to the end of the hut, pointed to her rescued
                  boy, who, sleeping, lay upon a pack of furs.
               "Oconee's last hope," said she, "and all her heart lies there, in Weepeman, the
                  young chief of the Chippeways."
               "Is he your only son?" inquired Bramley.
               "He is. Oconee had another, but three moons have come and gone since she looked
                  upon his face. Tiowa has sung his death song, and his limbs, have blackened in the
                  fires of the Upas."
               "How was this?"
               "The flowers of twenty summers had blossomed on the hills and filled the heart of
                  Tiowa with their fragrance, and the great spirit of his fathers looked with favor
                  upon his growth, and it was good. His hand was strong and sure, and his foot was
                  light and swift, and he was great among the braves of his people. His war path was
                  red with the blood of the Upas in the east, and of the Algonquins in the west, and
                  the scalps of Ahoowas hung round his lodge. But the Manitou led him into the
                  country of the Upas, and he sang his death song there before the face of his
                  enemies. He died like a warrior of his nation, and a great chief of his people. He
                  told his deeds of valor while the flames wrapped his form; he felt not the heated
                  arrows which were thrust in his skin, and he laughed at the Upas when they tore
                  his eyes from their sockets. 'Ye are women,' said he, 'look at a Chippeway brave,
                  and learn from him how a warrior should die.' But the braves of the Chippeways
                  heard the voice of the spirit calling them on the war path, and they uncovered the
                  hatchet to avenge the blood of their chief. Look, pale-face," she continued, with
                  rising vehemence, as she drew aside the curtain that closed the hut at that side,
                  while her eyes flashed fire, and the hot blood of passion swelled the yeins in her face and neck
                  until they seemed like cords beneath the skin; "Look upon the scalps of the Upas,
                  and see how Tiowa has been avenged."
               Here she disclosed, and pointed exultingly to a long row of the savage trophies of
                  the expedition, which, still raw and reeking in blood, had been torn from the
                  heads of the Upas; and regarding them fixedly for a moment or two, she uttered a
                  deep low guttural sound, and crossing her long skinny arms upon her breast,
                  convulsively seized her shoulders and hugged herself in fierce delight.
               The curtain feel and shut out the sickening sight, and Wood, turning again to the
                  woman, inquired:
               "How came the brave Tiowa to stray into the country of his enemies?"
               "But three moons ago, and the snows of winter lay upon the hills, the trees had no
                  green, the birds sang no songs in the forest, and the waters of the lake slept
                  beneath their icy covering. In those days, Tiowa had no meat in his lodge, and he
                  prayed to the Great Spirit for success, and went away beyond the mountains to hunt
                  for the moose. But the Evil Spirit drove the game from the country, and Tiowa
                  followed the trail; and when he had gone far towards the land of the Upas, the
                  Manitou appeared upon the hills, like the form of a beautiful maid, and crying for
                  help in a voice of suffering and anguish, sprinkled the path with blood and fled
                  into the woods by the lake. Tiowa heard the appealing cry, and, full of generous
                  impulses, followed on the track, thinking only to relieve a suffering woman, until
                  he fell into an ambush of his enemies mies; and then the evil one who led him on
                  turned to taunt him, and called him fool."
               "And these warriors, then, are the braves of the Chippeways, returning in triumph
                  from the country of the Upas?"
               "It is so; and they have laid the scalps of the Upas before Oconee, that her eyes
                  might be glad and her heart rejoice: but her eyes are dim, and see nothing but
                  Weepemau; and her heart is small, and full only of him."
               With a glance of affection on the sleeping boy, and resignation in her manner,
                  strongly contrasting with the violent emotions she had exhibited but a few minutes
                  before, she turned away from the friends and again busied herself in domestic
                  duties.
               "Cicero spoke truly when he said, 'What gift has Providence bestowed on man, that
                  is so dear to him as his children?'"
               "True, Frank; and here at least humanity stands on common ground. Think how much
                  of hope and fear, and pride and love, are centered in this little being—hope for
                  his life and strength, and all that maternal solicitude can prompt; and pride in
                  his destiny and name, and all that untutored nature pictures into greatness— 
                     
                        "Sleep on
                        And smile, thou little, young inheritor
                        Of a world scarce less young; sleep on, and smile!
                        Thine are the hours and days when both are cheering
                        And innocent."
                     
                  
               
               They were now summoned to the morning meal, and forgetting all other concerns,
                  soon became deeply intent on investigating the contents of a huge wooden bowl with which they were supplied, and
                  to which they applied themselves with that zeal and relish which their early
                  exercise alone could explain. The bowl having been emptied, and replenished, and
                  emptied again, the young men at length found leisure to look round upon the
                  company in which they found themselves.
               Some ten or twelve of the principal warriors of the expedition were seated in the
                  lodge, silently and expeditiously exerting themselves upon the good cheer before
                  them. They sat cross-legged upon the ground, in a circle around the fire, which,
                  though far in the month of June, burned upon the hearth in the middle. A fierce
                  and brawny looking set they were, too—decked in their war-paint and armed to the
                  teeth, but cheerful and happy withal, if the frequent laugh and jest which passed
                  between them indicated anything. As their attention wandered from one to another
                  of these "lords of nature," the friends became aware, for the first time, that
                  they were themselves the subject of scrutiny, and particularly were they regarded
                  by a large and powerful warrior, who, sitting near the old chief, was occasionally
                  addressed by him in tones of apparent confidence and friendship.
               Wawpoosa, for so he was called, presented nothing to a casual or unpractised
                  observer to distinguish him particularly from the other warriors seated round the
                  hut; he was tall, well-proportioned and muscular, and light and graceful in his
                  carriage. His regular features and high forehead gave a somewhat commanding air to
                  his presence, but a look of deep and vindictive cunning which rested in his eyes,
                  and a sinister expression about his sensual mouth, whose thick and protruding lips
                  indicated strong and violent passions, were well apparent to an attentive
                  observer, and warned him to be guarded of the man.
               "I do not much admire Mr. Wawpoosa," said Bramley, addressing his friend, as he
                  rose to leave the hut.
               "Nor I," answered the other; "and, if I mistake not, he is not much pleased to see
                  us. However, that is of very little consequence so long as we preserve the good
                  will of Nishtagau. Here is a goodly array of the chivalry of the woods," he
                  continued, as they emerged into the open air, and surveyed the bulky forms of more
                  than a hundred painted warriors, who, in various groups, lay stretched upon
                  blankets, basking in the morning sun among their lodges.
               "Chivalry, indeed! Why, Dick, you are lavish of expression; but let us make
                  acquaintance with some of them."
               They crossed the little area which divided the lodge of the chief from those of
                  the people, and stopped in front of a large hut, in the door of which sat an old
                  Indian smoking placidly from a tomahawk pipe. The kindly expression of his
                  countenance, as they advanced, and the inviting gesture of his hand, induced them
                  to take a seat beside him and bring out their own pipes, preparatory to a "talk."
                  At this moment Wawpoosa passed, and favored them with a long and searching stare,
                  which seemed to express anything but good will. The old man observed it, and
                  remarked:
               "Wawpoosa has no love for pale-faces."
               "Why so? Are not the pale-faces the friends of the red men?"
               "Their tongues are smooth," answered the old man, quietly.
               "Then why," continued Wood, content to take this for an admission of his proposition, "should
                  Wawpoosa have no love for the white men?"
               "Ungus knows little of the Winnebago."
               "He is not a Chippeway, then?"
               A look of anger, for an instant, darkened the countenance of Ungus, but it changed
                  into an expression of pity, as he answered:
               "Does the pale-face think that the Chippeway is a cheat; that he has the lying
                  tongue of the serpent, and the coward meanness of the wolf? No!" continued the old
                  man, proudly, "Wawpoosa is no Chippeway, but a Winnebago chief."
               "Then why is he dressed in the paint of the Chippeways, and living so far from his
                  people?"
               "The snows of many winters have passed away since Wawpoosa, a poor and lonely
                  Indian, without arms, and without covering, and hungry and tired, came into the
                  village of the Chippeways. The people looked upon him, and their hearts were moved
                  with pity, and they took him and gave him meat, and warmed him at their fires, and
                  gave him furs and a lodge. But after a little while he grew strong, and he made
                  him a bow and arrows, and went away into the woods to hunt. The moose, and the
                  deer, and the buffalo, were plenty before him, and his lodge became rich in meats
                  and furs, for he was a great hunter. And he went on the war path with the
                  Chippeways, and took the scalps of their enemies, for he was a powerful warrior.
                  He grew in favor with the Chippeways, and when Nishtagan, their chief, fell under
                  the hatchet of the Ahoowas, the hand of Wawpoosa snatched him away and bore him to
                  his lodge in safety. So the Chippeways were the friends of Wawpoosa. But why he
                  left the lodges of his people, and why he has hate in his heart for the
                  pale-faces, Ungus does not know."
               "It would seem that he did good service to the Chippeways; how came you then to
                  change your sentiments so much towards him?"
               "Ungus will tell; but his heart is heavy, for he remembers the face of Pilawah,
                  his son. One summer since, in the fawn moon of the year,*
                   when the woods were green, and the air was sweet to breathe, the young man
                  looked in the eyes of Yoesie and she smiled upon him, for he was comely and brave;
                  so they made vows before the great Spirit, and they loved and were happy. In a
                  little while, Wawpoosa, having envy in his heart, when he saw that beauty was on
                  the check of the
                  
                     
                     *June. It will be observed that the method used by the Indians, of roekoning
                        the flight of years, is by reference to some well-known circumstance among
                        them. Thus they say "It is so many summers since his death;" and for
                        fractional parts of the year "So many moons,"—the year being divided into
                        twelve moons, each of which is named from appearances in nature; for
                        instane, January is the squirrel moon, because these little animlas leave
                        their holes in that month; February is the frog moon, because they begin to
                        croak in the warm days of February; March is the sweet moon, because the sap
                        runs freely from the trees, and the Indians make their maple sugar; April is
                        the spring moon; May, the planting moon, when they sow their corn; June, the
                        fawn moon, when the deer bring forth their young; July, the hot moon;
                        August, the summer moon; September, the autumnal moon, when the leaves
                        change their hue; October, the gathering moon, when the winter's provision
                        is collected; November, the snow moon, when storms prevail, and December the
                        cold moon, when winter is at its depth.
                     The hours of the day are measured with surprising precision, by the passage
                        of the sun from one point in the heavens to another. "You will see me
                        again," says the Indian, "when the sun stands there," pointing to the
                        portion of the heavens the sun will occupy at the time indicated, and he
                        will be scruplously punctual in keeping his engagement.
                   maiden, stood before her
                  and offered her presents, but she turned away from him and went into her
                  lodge."
               Here the old man paused, affected by the recollections of Yoesie and Pilawah which
                  his narrative awakened; and his interested listeners respected his feelings too
                  much to disturb his reverie. But presently the shade of sorrow passed from his
                  face, and a stern and angry expression took its place, his features working as he
                  proceeded, and his whole manner indicating an intense excitement strongly
                  restrained.
               "So Wawpoosa," he continued, "went away into the mountains and called to the evil
                  spirits for aid, and they heard his voice and made him strong. And he came back
                  and hugged himself in his blanket, for he was glad. And when the night came, he
                  stole like a wolf from his lodge, and carried skins of the beaver and things that
                  were his and laid them in the lodge of Pilawah, while the young man slept. And in
                  the morning Wawpoosa rose very early and whispered in the ear of Nishtagau, and he
                  and all the chief people went to the lodge of the youth and found there the things
                  of Wawpoosa."
               The passion that heaved the naked breast of the speaker during the above recital,
                  at this point choked his utterance; and starting from his seat, he raised his
                  clenched hand in the direction which Wawpoosa had passed, and with lips
                  compressed, and glaring eye-balls fixed, he stood like a statue of Vengeance
                  calling curses upon the head of Treachery.
               Recollecting himself, however, he presently resumed his seat, and continued:
               "The chiefs sat in council. They heard the voice of Wawpoosa, and considered his
                  words. And then they rose up and declared that Pilawah was a thief, and should not
                  dwell among the Chippoways. He must go. So Pilawah went away, and the old men were
                  grave; the warriors would not look on his going—the young men lay still in their
                  lodges, and the squaws dropped their tears in silence—for he was loved in the
                  village, and few believed him guilty. And Pilawab went, and when he came to the
                  pass of the mountain, he turned to take a parting look upon the homes of his
                  people and breathe a farewell blessing on the gray hairs of his father; and while
                  he stood there, a wampum-belt and a long black tress fell at his feet. He looked
                  up, and the graceful form of Yoesie disappeared from his sight among the rocks
                  which hung over his head. And Pilawah was seen no more."
               The old man was now quite calm, and spoke in tones at once musical and sad, which
                  were deeply impressive.
               "And what," inquired Bramley, "became of the maiden Yoesie?"
               "She pined, and fluttered round her nest awhile, like the king-bird who has lost
                  her mate; but she sang no more, and her step grew heavy and slow. Wawpoosa sat
                  often in her lodge, and told of his deeds in war; but her eyes could not look upon
                  his face, her ears were deaf to his voice, and her heart was sick in his presence.
                  And when the cold winds came, and the flowers dropped on the prairies, Yoesie
                  disappeared from the village, and was seen no more. And after a little while the
                  young men went in pursuit of her, and Wawpoosa smiled; and when they came back he
                  laughed in their faces and said to them, 'Let him watch the flight of the Harfang*
                     who would find his mate.' And Yoesie was never heard of again."
               
                  
                  *The Harfang here spoken of is the great Northern Owl, which is the largest
                     of all the nocturnal tribe, and as white as the snows of winter. The caverns
                     of the earth, the darkest part of a hollow tree, or some obscure crevice in
                     a rock, are the places where they are usually found; for they are incapable
                     of supporting the light of day, or at least of seeing and readily avoiding
                     danger. They have a hideous note—a terrifying call—which is often heard in
                     the silence of midnight, and breaks the general pause with horrid
                     variation.
               
               Ungus rose from his seat as he finished his story, and abruptly entered his
                  wigwaum, leaving the young men to their reflections.
               "Depravity and wickedness," said Bramley, breaking silence and addressing his
                  friend, "and lying, hypocrisy and hate are not, it seems, as your theory would
                  teach, the peculiar attributes of civilized man, but belong to human nature
                  wherever it is found, differing only in the method which the means and example
                  have taught us to use."
               Wood made no reply, and they walked in silence through the encampment to the
                  shore, where the preparations for starting soon gave another direction to their
                  thoughts.
               The whole party were presently embarked, and with the prows of their canoes turned
                  northward, rapidly and noiselessly sped on their way, leaving the little island to
                  its native loveliness, and its willows to weep o'er the tales they had heard.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE JOURNEY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "See the rivers—how they run
                           Through woods and meads, in shade and sun,
                           Sometimes swift, sometimes slow,
                           Wave succeeding wave, they go
                           A various journey to the deep,
                           Like human life, to endless sleep."
                        
                     
                     DYER'S GRANGER HILL.
                  
               
               FOR more than an hour the party moved easily against the stream of the Severn,
                  past shores which were verdant meadows, rich in growth; but their winding course
                  became more toilsome as the land grew higher, and rocky banks appeared, and kept
                  the quickening current in a narrower bed. Here their speed relaxed, and are they
                  reached the foot of the "Sturgeon's Leap" it required the united exertions of all
                  who could ply a paddle to give headway to the canoes. Slowly they urged themselves
                  along—their frail vessels trembling in the troubled waters—until they reached a
                  point about a hundred yards below the precipice, over which the river fell in
                  picturesque cascades.
               The scene was novel as grand. Between black and ragged walls of some two hundred
                  feet in height, the river drove its crooked and impetuous way, boiling, foaming,
                  and raising up a heavy spray. No vegetation was there, not even dank weeds or
                  grass, for the sun rarely peeped to the bottom of the gorge. Nothing around,
                  above, below, but an extended ridge of nature's massive masonry rudely cleft in
                  twain, in whose deep seams the waters'
                  rushing noise was echoed back and forth in one long, loud and deep toned
                  cadence.
               The point behind which our party halted was a mighty mass of rock, jutting boldly
                  into the stream and forming a sharp angle in its course, and affording a landing
                  place—the only one for miles and miles along the shores; beyond this, however,
                  nothing could float in the angry waves, that leaped the falls in three cascades of
                  some sixty or seventy feet each, and dashed madly against the unflinching face of
                  the friendly rock, and then swept angrily around, to deposit behind the earthly
                  matter their own fury had washed and carried from above, and in the course of ages
                  built the little bit of sloping shore which gave foothold to the voyagers.
               On this little bit of shore, then, the canoes were slowly unloaded and lifted one
                  by one to the shoulders of an Indian, who, aided by another, then set forward up
                  the steep and rugged path—if path indeed it might be called—which, after all, was
                  but a narrow riven seam in the rock; and so, partly by dint of hard climbing, and
                  partly by hoisting from above and lifting from below, presently emerged upon the
                  top with the little vessels, nothing the better for the knocks they had received
                  by the way. The rest of the party soon followed, carrying their packs, and the
                  journey was resumed on foot; but the ragged and abrupt nature of the ground over
                  which they now traveled to get round the fall, still ascending and naked to the
                  sun—the stones scorching hot, and the air still and heated, rendered the labor
                  excessive and painful, and the young men were no way sorry half an hour later to
                  deposit their burdens in the canoes again, and find themselves afloat upon the
                  broad rapids above the first fall.
               The respite from exertion, however, was but brief; for the country ascended by
                  ridges. The broad and shallow river presently grew deeper in its channel, and
                  contracted in its shores, and the extra paddles were again brought into vigorous
                  play to drive against 
                     "The urging and ungentle tide."
                  
               
               Again they landed near the foot of a second fall, and carried their baggage and
                  canoes round to the rapids above, where they were re-embarked, and the arduous
                  voyage continued, only to be landed again for a similar purpose a few miles
                  further in advance. But at length they left the ungracious river, and entered on
                  the placid bosom of the inner lake, where 
                     
                        "The desert smiled,
                        And paradise was opened in the wild.
                     
                  
               
               The day was calm and beautiful, and the sky cloudless and serene—a gentle breeze
                  which just ruffled the surface of the waters, tempered also the heat of the sun,
                  and fanned the checks of the travelers with its grateful coolness as they
                  journeyed on. They neared Chief's Island, when Nishtagau, suddenly starting up in
                  his canoe, ordered the party to land; and in an instant the vigorous arms of fifty
                  savages plied the paddles with a will, and left the bright foam tumbling in their
                  wake. But before the shore could be gained, a change came over the smiling face of
                  nature. The sky became overcast and angry—thunder muttered in the distance—and
                  lightning, forked in threatening shape, flashed through the clouds, which, black
                  and heavy, burst above and poured down upon the voyagers prodigious torrents of
                  drenching rain. They reached the shelter of the woods in safety; but wet and cold,
                  they were still obliged to stand and hear
                  the howling of a young typhoon rushing madly through the woods, uprooting the
                  forest giants in his fury, and scattering their limbs and trunks in wild confusion
                  before his angry breath.
               These violent squalls are of very frequent occurrence on the lakes of the
                  Northwest. They give little notice of their approach, but burst forth in sudden
                  fury, and having spent their breath, subside as quickly as they came, leaving,
                  however, nature's fresh-washed face more bright and beautiful than it was
                  before.
               The storm at length abated, and allowed the party to embark. The sun shone forth
                  again, and his genial warmth and cheering face soon dispersed the damp and gloom
                  which hung around; but, owing to the delay upon the island, it was late in the day
                  ere they reached the mouth of the Black river, up which they pursued their rapid
                  course.
               The scene they now entered upon was grand, though forbidding in the extreme; and
                  in the gloom of evening which now drew near, might well suggest ideas of the
                  fabled river that Sinbad traversed beneath the loadstone mountains of Arabia.
                  Black, shagged rocks rose high on either side, abruptly from the sullen stream,
                  and stretched their barren summits till they almost reached across and formed a
                  giant archway, lacking but the key stone to close it in and make the cavern
                  perfect. Dark and gloomy, it offered fit dwellings for the lonely owl, who, in its
                  deep recesses, might rest secure from all intrusion of the outer day. The prowling
                  kite and greedy buzzard here had chosen their dismal sanctuary, and now disturbed,
                  sprang in numbers from their covert nests, and hoveriug above with angry screams,
                  seemed willing to resent the intrusion; their cries reverberated from point to
                  point along the solid walls which fenced them in, waking echoes as they went, to
                  heighten the wild effect of the curious scene. But evening advanced apace, and
                  already in the open air 
                     
                        "Twilight grey
                        Had, in her sober livery, all things clad."
                     
                  
               
               In the cavern, then, for such it may be called, the obscurity deepened and soon
                  became intense, and the greatest caution was necessary in guiding the canoes,
                  lest, striking upon the rocks, they should be lost in the dark and rapid stream,
                  with all on board.
               Thus, for nearly half an hour they pursued their cheerless and dangerous voyage;
                  but at length the river began to expand—its rocky bounds gave place to herbage
                  which became richer as they proceeded, until at last they emerged upon a varied
                  country of meadow and woodland, which, seen before 
                     
                        "The approach of night,
                        The skies yet blushing with departing light,
                        When falling dews with spangles deck the glade,
                        And the low sun has lengthened every shade,"
                     
                   presented a new and pleasing picture at every turn in the serpentine
                  stream.
               But Lake Muskoka now was close at hand, and though night had closed in, yet, after
                  a little while, the whole party were encamped in safety on the thickly wooded
                  shores, and darkness soon was driven away by the blazing fires that, burning
                  fiercely high, threw their warmth and light around, and dispelled the cold and
                  damp which always comes with night in these regions. Divided into knots of twenty
                  or thirty, each mess or company was seated round its own particular fire, and
                  snuffed with eager expectation the savory odors which steamed in volumes from an iron pot suspended in
                  the flame.
               There was "glorious promise" of "coming events" in that pot; and many pairs of
                  wild and hungry eyes watched it swinging to and fro with unwearying attention; and
                  when some new contribution to the curious compound was "pitched in,"
                  and the pot swung more merrily than before, many a tongue peeped out and wandered
                  over twice the number of lips, and a smile of satisfaction spread upon the swarthy
                  features of each waiting individual as he shifted his position and uttered an
                  exclamation of profound approval.
               We have hinted that the compound was curious. It was; and in that respect, at
                  least, like all others of its family; for its name was soup—venison,
                  bear's meat, pork, pidgeons, fish, squirrels, corn, roots, and a few other
                  ingredients, were boiled up together and made the soup: and if the relish with
                  which it was eaten, and the looks of satisfaction which beamed around, were any
                  criterion, why, it was good soup, too.
               At length the exertions of the party began to sink exactly in proportion as the
                  bottom of the boiler rose to view, and one by one they took their pipes and
                  blankets, and retired to the most convenient shelter which offered.
               "This has been a most toilsome day for us," said Wood, rising and stepping from
                  the fire, followed by his friend, "and we feel it more, that the exercise is
                  novel."
               "True, Dick; but according to the account which Ungus has given me, I fancy our
                  endurance will be more severely tested on the prairie to-morrow. The savage and
                  unbroken horses, which the Indians ride, it seems, are exceedingly difficult to
                  manage until well used to them, and require a constant watchfulness on the part of
                  their riders to guard against vicious attempts at mischief."
               "Well, we must only make the best of it; I suppose we shall reach our journey's
                  end soon after noon."
               "Yes! two or three hours before sunset, if no accident should happen to delay
                  us."
               "And that is not very likely, for we are out of the Upas country, and the weather
                  being fine, once on the broad praries, we can dash forward over the yielding turf
                  like Arabs on the deserts of the east."
               "You are enthusiastic, Dick; but come, here we are upon the shore; let us return
                  now to the camp and seek our rest, for I fancy we shall ride very little like
                  Arabs if we take not some repose before to-morrow."
               "Stay, Frank, one moment, and look upon this scene; see how calm are the waters
                  and how still the air; the belted lake and wooded islands rest in solitude
                  profound, and have no human eye upon them, now, but ours. Look, look, Frank, what
                  is that," he added quickly, grasping his friend by the arm and pointing over the
                  lake. "Do you see it, swimming across the moonlight yonder?"
               "Yes! it is a deer, I think, by the shape of his head, leaving the island and
                  swimming towards the mainland. I could send a messenger from my rifle here"—
               "No, no, Frank, it would be wanton; and to break the reigning silence would be sin
                  besides: let the peaceful creature go, and leave the echoes to their slumber. I am
                  reminded, by a scene like this, of Southey's lines: 
                     
                        How beautiful is Night,
                        A dewy freshness fills the silent air,
                        No mist obscures, nor cloud, nor speck, nor stain.
                        Breaks the serene of Heaven."
                     
                  
               
               
               "You seem to be always reminded of something. I wish you would stop your prosing,
                  Dick, and follow the decent example of the titular saint by whom you swear so
                  much, and retire to your rest."
               But the other, heedless of the interruption, proceeded: 
                     
                        "In full orb'd glory yonder moon divine
                        Rolls through the dark blue depths,
                        Beneath her steady ray,
                        The desert circle spreads
                        Like the round ocean, girdled with the sky."
                     
                  
               
               "Come, Frank," he continued, "I will go with you," and taking his friend by the
                  arm, they returned to the camp. Here they found the savages all at rest, and
                  cautiously picking their steps among them by the light of the failing embers, the
                  young men selected a spot for themselves, and were soon lulled to sleep by the
                  hoarse croaking of the bullfrog, and the shrill voice of the katydid.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE MAIDENS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Her glance, how wildly beautiful! how much
                           Hath Phoebus woo'd in vain to spoil her check,
                           Which glows yet smoother for his amorous clutch!
                           Who round the north for paler dames would seek?
                           How poor their forms appear! how languid, wan and weak!
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           There was a soft and pensive grace,
                           A cast of thought upon her face,
                           That suited well the forehead high,
                           The eyelash dark, and downcast eye:
                           The mild expression spoke a mind
                           In duty firm, composed, resign'd.
                        
                     
                     —SCOTT.
                  
               
               LEAVING our travelers to follow at their leisure, we will invite the reader to
                  take a leap across the prairie, and alight with us on the banks of the
                  Michipicoton river. Here, let us sit upon this rock and look round upon the
                  country. See the gay swallows, how they skim along the surface of the winding
                  stream, which, flowing from the hills behind us, empties into yonder lake. The
                  time is early, and the dews of night, yet resting on the grass, glisten like
                  diamonds in the rising sun. The air is fresh and rings with sweet noise, for the
                  birds are singing in the woods their morning hymns of praise. The bee is abroad,
                  and his hum is heard; the jay's rich pinions flit from to tree, his high notes
                  mingling with the robin's song; the kingbird's plaintive cry, and the unseen
                  cuckoo's call, come from the shaded grove, while the merry mockbird, with added
                     sweetness of his own, links together,
                  in one continued song, the different notes of all.
               But see, we now have other actors on our field of view. Look to the edge of yonder
                  forest. That is a noble horse, in truth—a beast of perfect symmetry and worth; but
                  something nobler still stands there beside him, with more of beauty, and of
                  loftier type. Yes; graceful as the waving reed is the tall figure of that fair
                  girl, whose ripened charms the suns of sixteen summers have warmed to their
                  present rich maturity. Her face is lovely, and the deep crimson of her blood
                  displays through the transparent skin upon her rounded cheeks. The mass of raven
                  hair, escaping from the silver bands that held it, falls from her high forehead
                  round shoulders excellent in form, and partly covers, but does not hide, the full
                  beauties of her bosom, heaved by a glowing heart. See her dark eyes, how they
                  sparkle with pleasure as she looks upon her horse, and strokes with tiny hands his
                  sleek, black skin, while the conscious brute, proud of her notice, neighs and paws
                  the ground. But anon, a shade of melancholy steals into them; the brightness fades
                  from her glance as it wanders over the broad country around, and an anxious
                  expression settles on her face, and deepens into one of almost pain, as she
                  observes the cloud of dust which rises at the distant edge of the prairie. She
                  watches it anxiously, as though she thought it concealed a dreaded visitation,
                  until the wind lifts it up and shows only a herd of buffalos scampering away to
                  the west, and her glad eyes assume their natural tone again, and her cheek its
                  rosy hue. Her air is free, and wild, and brave, and well sets off her jaunty
                  dress. Her richly embroidered bodice is open in the front, and her tunic, reaching
                  to the knee, displays the tasteful work upon the moccasons which encase her little
                  feet, while the cymar across her breast and round her waist sports lightly in the
                  wind, and gives a careless finish to her attire that well becomes her easy
                  bearing.
               Look, look! with one light spring she mounts her horse, and now they fly together
                  o'er the grassy plain. The grave expression has faded from her lovely face, and
                  happy animation is there instead. Hark! do you hear the wild glee with which she
                  laughs to his neigh, and with reckless daring cheers him in his mad career. A bold
                  and skillful horsewoman, most nobly mounted. But what does she now? See, she has
                  unwound her cymar and thrown it on the ground, and now, in narrowing circles,
                  rides quickly round and round—see how they lean inwards; surely, horse, and rider
                  both must fall; she stoops lower still; look, look, she's off; but no, her seat is
                  recovered and her steed keeps on—one effort more—she stoops again—her dagger's
                  point has reached the scarf, and now, waving it in triumph, she rides away to the
                  spring to rest, and drink refreshment from its icy waters. At length they move
                  again, but they have tired of their sport; the game is over; the maid seems weary
                  and her spirits gone, and so walks slowly by the river shore towards the wooded
                  hill. There let us follow and enter the cool forest, too.
               How pleasant here to walk beneath the stately trees. The earth is covered with a
                  bed of leaves that makes it soft and easy to the tread; the air is scented with
                  the briars' breath, and the vocal birds are busy now in searching for their food.
                  How calm and still. And look! between the sheltering elms stands an Indian lodge,
                  and there another, and another. Surely peace dwells here; worldly strife and passions must be
                  strangers to a scene like this, 
                     "By forms unfashion'd, fresh from Nature's hand."
                   And there again appears our fair horsewoman, winding slowly through the woods
                  towards the nearest lodge; how gracefully she sits, and how proudly, too; a woman
                  of high consequence, no doubt, among her people—see, she dismounts now, and leads
                  her horse away behind the thicket. Can it be that so noble a lady has no esquire
                  to attend upon her. But again she comes this way, though not alone. This time her
                  companion is a maiden, and one as beautiful as she, but not so tall, and younger,
                  and of less sprightly air, as if some fixed sorrow weighed heavily upon her, and
                  blanched her cheeks. Her eyes seek the ground, and her step is slow till they
                  reach the cedar couch before the door, and there they sit together. Her head
                  reclining upon the bosom of her friend, she nestles close and draws her arms about
                  her. And now she speaks:
               "Winona did not ride as far this morning as usual. Has her steed lost the
                  lightness of his heels?"
               "No, but Winona's heart grows smaller every day."
               "What sorrow can there be in the bosom of Nihtagau's daughter? She is young and
                  beautiful as the morning sun, and the pride and boast of her people. The braves
                  look in her eyes when she smiles, and are happy; and the old men hear her voice
                  when she sings, and are glad. And well the maiden knows, that when the warriors
                  return from the war path, Wawpoosa will come too, and hang before her lodge the
                  scalps of the Upas."
               "Irenene jests with her friend."
               "Nay! Irenene's spirit was crushed into the very earth, when Pilawah was called a
                  thief; and the snows of winter chilled it there, and it has never blossomed since.
                  The manitou of evil sent affliction to dwell in the lodge of Ungus, and his
                  daughter never jests."
               "Poor flower! Sorrow fell upon her heart like the early snows upon the opening
                  rose,—it chilled and robbed her of her fragrance, and she droops and hangs her
                  head. But the summer's sun will come again, and warm the tender bud to life and
                  beauty."
               "The sun of Irenene's summer has set; but Winona's is near the noon."
               "Does the maiden; then, really think that Winona's heart is glad when Wawpoosa can
                  hear it beat?"
               "She is his promised bride!" is the gentle reply.
               "Look at this dagger!" the other rejoins, quickly, her eyes flashing scarcely less
                  than the polished blade she holds before them; "look, it is bright now, and its
                  edge is keen. But hark!" she continues, leaning forward, and speaking with
                  deliberate emphasis, "it shall rust and blunt in Winona's bosom, before she goes
                  to the lodge of Wawpoosa as his bride."
               "The maiden surely would not bring sorrow to her father's lodge?" the
                  first remonstrates.
               "Much better that sorrow, than disgrace should enter there," is the calm
                  reply.
               "Nay," pursues the first, "Wawpoosa is rich; he has many horses, and is a great
                  warrior."
               "True," answered the other; "but his heart is a lie; and his tongue speaks like
                  the spirit of deceit."
               "But his lodge is large and warm," continues Irenene.
               "Aye, yet the air is cold when he enters, and the fires give no heat."
               
               "But the moose and the deer are plenty before his rifle, and the fish come to his
                  nets in abundance."
               "Enough, enough," says the proud beauty, springing impatiently to her feet; and
                  now, in impressive tones of mingled sweetness, sorrow and sternness, adds: "Winona
                  has spoken: and though her father has said it shall be so, and vowed to the spirit
                  of his fathers, yet she has made her own resolve, and
                  her choice is in this dagger."
               Gaze on the picture, with all its surroundings—is it not fine? There, beneath the
                  forrest giants, through whose thick foilage occasional gleams of sunshine dart and
                  startle the deeper shades, stands the maiden, erect and dauntless. Her nervous
                  hand, outstretched above her head, grasps tightly the gleaming poinard, and shakes
                  it in the air—her bosom heaves—and her spread nostrils, and flashing eyes, her
                  lips compressed and heightened color, prove how truly her earnest words were the
                  firm resolve of a courageous heart. Before her, still reclining on the rude couch
                  which stands beside the wigwaum door, is the slight figure of the gentle Irenene
                  regarding the other with looks, partly of approval and admiration, partly of awe
                  and surprise; but the former soon gain the ascendency, and with a smile of
                  sisterly affection, she moves, and approaching Winona, places her arm about her
                  waist and speaks:
               "Irenene is happy now, for she loves her friend, and would have warned her of a
                  hidden snake; but the maiden has already heard his warning noise, and is looking
                  where the plantian grows, if she should chance be stung."
               "The maid speaks well; but Winona long has known that a kite in the plumage of an
                  eagle, had his nest among the lodges of the Chippeways—she has not for gotten the
                  name and fate of the young brave Pilawah; nor the virtues and beauty of the lost
                  and gentle Yoesie."
               "Winona's words are music in a sister's ear, for Irenene loved her brother well,
                  and his chosen bride was her early friend."
               "It is good," the other replies. "Sympathy falls upon the bruised heart, like the
                  dews of heaven upon the thirsty leaves—it soothes, cools, and vivifies—the Great
                  spirit has made it so, and it is good. But since our sorrows spring from the same
                  fountain, why not let them run in the same stream?"
               "They cannot mingle long, for they are journeying different ways. Irenene's stream
                  runs towards the land of happy spirits, and Winona's towards the joys of living
                  life."
               "The maiden still believes Winona happy," she says quietly, but somewhat
                  reproachfully. "How can it be," she continues, "when her heart grows small within
                  her as the day advances? Will not Wawpoosa return with the warriors are the sun
                  goes down?"
               "He will; but Irenene spoke not of him—she has had a dream, which concerns Winona:
                  listen, for it may put hope in her heart, and make it firm to meet the hour of
                  trial." They seat themselves again, and the young girl continues: "Irenene lay in
                  the lodge and slept, when the spirit appeared in the form of an old man, and took
                  her by the hand, and led her far off into the high hills, and showed her the
                  country where the sun sleeps at night. The woods were fair, and filled with the
                  deer and moose; and the hunters saw them and were happy. The trees bore sweet
                  fruits, and birds sat in the boughs and made songs all the day; and the maidens
                  danced in the grove, for their hearts were very glad. And when they saw Irenene they beckoned to
                  her and she advanced, but the spirit laid his hand upon her arm and would not let
                  her go—saying: 'when the summer moon comes, Irenene shall join the maidens in the
                  spirit land.' And then he took her hand again, and led her into a strange country
                  where the fields were full of corn, and rich flowers grew over the land. There
                  were no bears in the forest, and no deer for the hunters; but tame animals, with
                  horns on their heads, cropped the grass by the way; and others, that were covered
                  with wool, were plenty on the hills. And in a little while Winona came from the
                  woods—she leaned upon the arm of a strange warrior, and her face was full of
                  smiles, for she was his bride, and was very happy.
               "And then the spirit turned away, and pointed up into the mountains which were
                  covered with snow, and the rocky steeps were barren, and there was no game. And
                  Irenene looked and saw the form of a man, and he was naked and shivering in the
                  cold; he was hungry, and there was nothing to eat. So he walked slowly, like one
                  who is sick, and kept his eyes upon the ground like one who is ashamed; but the
                  spirit called to him, and he raised his head, and Irenene saw that it was
                  Wawpoosa."
               The maidens both are silent now, and deeply busied with their meditations. Their
                  eyes are bent upon the ground, and see not the tall and hideous figure that leaves
                  the concealment of the tree near which they sit, and with swift and stealthy tread
                  gains the denser woods beyond. They hold deep converse with their abstract selves,
                  and hear not the low signal of the wolf's sharp cry, nor notice it is answered
                  from the river shore. But at length a long drawn sigh escapes from Winona's bosom,
                  and Irenene looks up into her face. The sad expression there now melts away, and
                  the gaze is returned with a smile of sisterly regard, as she rises from her seat;
                  and Irenene speaks:
               "The dream has caused the maiden to be sad."
               "Nay," the other answers, "'tis a happy dream—and Winona is glad that her friend
                  has told it; for she feels more hopeful, and will be strong. But come," she
                  continues, with a gayer air, "the sun is near the noon, and the maidens are in the
                  village before the lodge of the great council."
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE RECEPTION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           But man is a carniverous production,
                           And must have meat,—at least one meal a day;
                           He cannot live, like woodcocks, upon suction,
                           But, like the shark and tiger, must have
                                 prey.
                           
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               A couple of hours after noon, the look-out returned into the village and announced
                  to the people assembled before the council lodge that Nishtagau and his party were
                  near at hand; and in fact the news was almost immediately confirmed by the party
                  themselves, shouting loudly from the mountain pass, where they had halted,
                  according to custom, until invited by their people to return to their homes. Some
                  little delay occurred before the confused crowd of men, women and children, whom
                  the intelligence set dancing, yelling and hurrying ing to and fro in "admirable disorder," could he
                  reduced into order; but at length the wild material was so far quieted as to
                  permit themselves to be ranged into something of a procession, at the head of
                  which one of the principal chiefs, bearing the sacred pipe, marched with dignified
                  leisure. Slowly they paraded through the village, each individual, excepting only
                  the pipe bearer, indulging in the most extravagant gestures, and yelling
                  vigorously with infinite delight, entirely independent of his neighbors. This
                  refreshing exercise they kept up until they halted before the returned warriors.
                  Here the two chiefs advanced before their respective parties, and held a brief
                  conference; and Nishtagau having given a report of the success and particular
                  incidents of the expedition, was then formally invited by the other to enter the
                  village, and signified, besides, that the council were assembled to receive them,
                  and the people would give them welcome. The shouting and dancing now recommenced
                  with more animation than ever, and the two parties mingled together, and, preceded
                  by the two chiefs, advanced to the great council lodge, in front of which the
                  returned warriors dismounted, and giving their horses in charge of the boys
                  waiting for that purpose, entered the chamber.
               This building stood in the centre of the village, and though differing nothing in
                  architectural design from the rest, was of much greater dimensions than any other
                  in the place. It was constructed of two long rows of poles, planted in straight
                  lines opposite to each other, and driven obliquely into the ground so as to meet
                  their upper ends together, and were then, leaving places for the doors, and space
                  enough in the top to admit light and permit the escape of smoke, thatched over
                  with the bark of trees and the skins of animals. It was used only on public
                  occasions of more than ordinary consequence, such as the assembling of the
                  council, the celebration of feasts and the like, after which it was closed, and
                  remained unoccupied until required for similar purposes again.
               Near the entrance, a large number of the principal people were assembled, who
                  invited the party to partake of a feast already awaiting them within. It is
                  needless to say that none of the tired and hungry travelers thought fit to decline
                  the tempting solicitation, but all eagerly thronged into the banquet hall and
                  ranged themselves, with the least possible loss of time, upon the mats spread for
                  their accommodation. At short intervals, hugh troughs were placed before the
                  feasters, into which the steaming contents of great iron pots, now swinging above
                  the fires burning fiercely in the middle, were presently emptied.
               At the upper end of the building sat Nishtagan, as principal hereditary chief, or
                     Okemaw*
                   of the tribe, having a most venerable looking old man on his right, and
                  several other chiefs and principal people about him. He took no refreshment
                  himself, but continued to smoke in silence, merely motioning the guests to
                  eat.
               
                  
                  *"Okemaw" significs "king," or chief ruler. The title is hereditary, and the
                     power of the incumbent absolute.
               
               The occasion of the return of a successful war party, is always one of high
                  consequence among the Indians; but was the more so in the present instance, that
                  the Okemaw of the tribe was himself so nearly concerned in the causus belli. The celebration required, therefore, to
                  be marked by particular respect, and the feast was prepared upon a scale to
                  match.
               
               There was one dish, among the many tempting delicacies abundantly arrayed, that
                  seemed to claim the particular regards of the Indians. It belonged to that class
                  of unctuous compounds technically known to professors of the culinary art, under
                  the euphonious appellation of "stews." That is, and I mention it here for the
                  information of my unlearned reader, a glorious mess, in which little pieces of
                  meat are sometimes found among a great deal of vegetable slush. The dish in
                  question, however, was popular, and extraordinary supplies of it disappeared with
                  marvelous rapidity. Bramley and Wood were also among its admirers, and frequently
                  repeated their helpings from the smoking trough before them.
               "Very good stew, Dick?" said Bramley.
               "Very," replied the other.
               "Have some more?"
               "Well, thank you, Frank, I don't care if I do."
               And they helped themselves again, and continued their repast with keen
                  enjoyment.
               Just now, a ragged dirty vagabond of an Indian, who had succeeded in gorging
                  himself, and therefore had leisure to observe the rest, advanced towards the young
                  men, and seating his greasy person upon the ground immediately in front of them,
                  rested his chin in the hollow of his hand, and stared steadily into their faces
                  without the slightest motion for several minutes. Having at length concluded his
                  ocular observation, he proceeded to form a better acquaintance by commencing a
                  conversation in broken English, a little of which he had picked up among the
                  trappers at the "post," and prided himself greatly in consequence.
               "How you like him?" he inquired, pointing to the nearly emptied bowls.
               "Very well," they answered.
               "Ingin bin in white village."
               "Have you?" said Bramley.
               "Yes."
               "Well! what then."
               "White man no eat, him," he continued, with a grin, pointing again to the bowls,
                  by this time finished.
               "White men don't eat what?" inquired the others rather quickly.
               "No eat dog."
               "Eat what?"
               "Dog," said the fellow complacently.
               "You do not mean to say, you copper colored dirty rascal," said Wood, starting
                  from his seat, "that we have been eating stewed dog."
               "Yes," replied the fellow with another grin, broader than the first, which grew
                  wider still as the young men hastily left the apartment.
               The remains of the "feast" having been removed, the old chief before spoken of
                  rose from his seat, and laying aside the pipe he had been smoking ever since,
                  proceeded to fill and light another of larger dimensions, profusely ornamented
                  with feathers, shells and bits of colored cloth. This was the calumet, the smoking
                  of which always preceded the business of the council. This sacred instrument was
                  presented, first to heaven, then to earth, and lastly in a circle to all parts of
                  the horizon, thereby invoking the presence of all the spirits that dwell in
                  heaven, in earth and air. The old man then reseated himself and smoked in silence
                  for a moment or two, blowing the smoke to the four points of the compass, and passed the pipe to Nishtagau, who
                  handed it to the chief next on his right, and then to him on the left, and so
                  through all the company in gradations according to their rank and consequence.
                  During all this time the utmost silence was preserved, but as soon as all had
                  smoked, the old man rose again to his feet, and proceeded to address the
                  assemblage: his tall and commanding figure and easy gesticulation adding much to
                  the effect of his "talk."
               "Brothers, Petchilawgo is an old man. The snows of ninety winters have bleached
                  his hair and frozen his tongue; but the braves of the Chippeways love to listen to
                  his voice, and he speaks to them."
               "Brothers, the Great Spirit called the young men upon the war path, and they
                  unburied the hatchet and carried it into the country of the Upas. They have done
                  well. Their path is red with the blood of their enemies. They have avenged the
                  death of Tiowa, and fifty scalps hang round the council lodge."
               "Brothers, there have come among us two pale-faces. They have come far from their
                  wigwaums in the south, to visit the Indian in the north, to receive his hand and
                  be his friends."
               "Brothers, the pale-faces are stout in heart. They have done well. And Indian
                  blood must flow before the Chippeways acquit their debt to them."
               "Brothers, listen. The son of a Chippeway, the son of your chief, the child of
                  Petchilawgo's daughter, was snatched from the deep waters, and from certain death,
                  by the brave hand of yonder pale-face."
               "Brothers, let my words rest in your ears, and let the pale-face strangers, far
                  from the graves of their fathers, receive your hospitality; but let them also, as
                     friends and brothers, receive a proof of Indian gratitude."
               To this Wood made a suitable reply; and as the council then proceeded to discuss
                  matters of public concern, the friends withdrew and stepped out upon the area in
                  front of the lodge. They soon found that Petchilawgo's beautiful appeal in their
                  behalf had produced a great effect, and, together with the public acknowledgment
                  of their services, had placed them at once upon such ground as to render them
                  persons of consequence and popular regard.
               They were met, upon leaving the council, by the assembled crowd of no-bodies, who
                  immediately pressed close around the friends, with loud assurances of their
                  "distinguished consideration," and, after the modern fashion in more civilized
                  communities, one and all, including their ragged and greasy friend, who had "bin
                  in white village," (and, by the way, probably, brought the notion back with him,)
                  insisted on the honor of placing their mansions "at the disposal of the
                  illustrious strangers." Escaping, however, from these importunate lionisers, the
                  young men having inquired their way, passed through the village towards the lodge
                  of Oconee.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE STORY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           He felt the chilling heaviness of heart,
                           * * * * which attends
                           The loss of love, the treachery of friends.
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               The lodge they sought was a little distance from the village, picturesquely
                  situated in the grove of elms where we first found Winona and her friend Irenene.
                  The spot seemed well selected, for neither the freezing winds of winter, nor the
                  extreme heat of summer could penetrate the little nook, fenced in by the giant
                  trees where it stood.
               The shades of evening were fast closing round the forest as the young men entered
                  its silent cover; but following the narrow footpath which led them the way, they
                  quickened their step and presently saw the light in the hut. It was quite dark
                  now, but as they approached nearer, Bramley's quick eye caught a glimpse of a tall
                  figure which rose from the ground before the door, and rapidly retreated into the
                  woods. It had hardly disappeared a minute before a sound like the bark of the fox
                  was heard in the same direction, which was immediately answered from the river
                  shore. The young men paused and listened, but nothing further occurring they again
                  advanced. There were voices within engaged in earnest conversation; but raising
                  the blanket at the entrance, which concealed the speakers, they stepped in without
                  further ceremony. They found Oconce and Winona, with the child Weepemau, the
                  latter playing in the ashes near the fire, the sole occupants pants of the place;
                  but neither mother or daughter for some minutes were aware of their presence. The
                  child saw them, however, and while they stood undetermined what to do, for they
                  were unwilling to disturb the women, fixed the quiet gaze of his large black eyes
                  upon them, and thus drew the attention of his mother to the intruders, just as
                  they were attempting to make their exit unperceived as they had entered.
               "Stay," said Oconee, starting from her seat, "the pale-faces are welcome, and must
                  not turn, their backs upon the lodge of Nishtagau."
               "Thank you," said Wood, seating himself upon the mats she had spread, "but," he
                  added, looking towards Winona, who had also risen, and now stood beside her
                  mother, glancing inquiringly at the strangers, "we interrupted your
                  conversation."
               "It was of the pale faces, Oconee spoke to her daughter."
               "Ah! is this your daughter, then," said Wood, looking at the girl, whose eyes
                  sought the ground before his quick glance.
               "It is so."
               "I hope," he continued, softening his voice, as he addressed Winona with
                  Chesterfieldian politeness, and observing that she did not resume her seat, "that
                  our presence does not frighten the maiden?"
               "Winona is a Chippeway, and her heart knows no fear," she answered, proudly.
               "Well spoken," said Bramley; "and now, Dick, I hope you are satisfied on
                     that score. The fact is," he continued, turning to the old woman,
                  "we came to ask you for a night's lodging."
               "A lodge is already prepared, and if the pale-faces will follow, Oconee will lead them to their rest."
                  She left the hut as she spoke, and proceeding into the woods, presently stood
                  before a wigwaum, which, she informed the young men, they should thenceforth
                  consider, with everything it contained, entirely their own; and then seeing them
                  enter, bade them good night, and departed.
               The place they now found themselves in, was an Indian lodge, oval in shape, and
                  constructed of poles, covered with bark and skins, and having an entrance at each
                  end covered by a blanket; in the centre burned a cheerful fire, and on either side
                  lay a pile of furs, which might serve for their couches, while various utensils
                  and articles of Indian luxury and convenience, were ranged about, or hung
                  suspended from the walls.
               "Well," said Wood, throwing himself down before the fire, and looking about him,
                  "here we are in the simple habitation of primitive men. How little is here; and
                  yet every necessary is provided for, by which we may see how little our
                  necessities really require. Yes," he continued, after a pause, during which he
                  seemed to have been reflecting, "we may learn a wholesome lesson, if we will, from
                  these natural and honest men, who live only according to natural instincts and
                  natural laws; whose qualities, untainted with the artificial ways and wants of
                  civilized man, are free from his fictitious appetites and vices, and whose desires
                  are satisfied with the spontaneous products of the woods, the prairies, and the
                  streams. This I call virtuous self-denial."
               "Might it not be ignorance?" inquired Bramley, smiling.
               "No, certainly not," said the other positively, "certainly not; for, as Johnson
                  very justly observes that 'curiosity begins where necessity ends; and no sooner
                  are we supplied with everything that nature can demand, than we sit
                  down to contrive artificial appetites.' Now, the Indian does not do this; but
                  having satisfied his few and simple necessities, rests contented there; and this I
                  call virtuous self denial."
               "Upon my word, Dick, one would think, to hear you talk, that you imagined you had
                  met a race of gods. Why don't you quote Socrates at once, and apply him to your
                  copper-colored examples of virtue? You remember, he says, 'the fewer our wants,
                  the nearer we resemble gods."
               "You may joke if you like, Frank, but I am in earnest. I do verily believe that
                  the real wants of mankind are few and easily satisfied, and that it is only our
                  imaginary ones that are boundless and insatiable."
               "I will not dispute it, Dick. In fact I will dispute nothing more. You have read
                  Tristam Shandy, of course."
               "Certainly."
               "And you doubtless remember my uncle Toby?"
               "Of course. But what has that to do with—"
               "O, nothing, of any great consequence. He had a hobby-horse, I believe."
               "Now, Frank, you are too bad. But, however much you may ridicule the idea, I shall
                  still insist that he who lives according to the simple requirements of nature,
                  lives virtuously."
               "Very well."
               "That the Indians, left to themselves, thus live and are happy."
               "Very well, again."
               "And consequently are free from the falsehood and selfishness that go hand in hand with what you
                  would call 'the refinements and elegancies of life."
               "No! I will not go so far as that; but tell me, Dick, what is the reason of the
                  bitter feeling you are constantly manifesting towards the people of your own race;
                  and what you call their inherent vices?"
               "Well, Frank, I suppose I might as well answer you candidly; and I will, too, if
                  only to redeem myself from the charge of injustice in your eyes. You must know,
                  then, that I once had friends, and that is all the reason."
               "You puzzle me Dick. I should think that that was enough to make you happy and
                  contented: for there is no more glorious possession under heaven, than a
                     friend."
               "True; but the friends I speak of, are not such as your imagination pictures: with
                  warm and honest hearts, frank and generous minds, pure and unselfish motives—men
                  with great souls, which 
                     
                        'By instinct to each other turn,
                        Demand alliance, and in friendship burn;'
                     
                   "no!—the friends that I mean," he continued, slowly, and with a
                  pained expression on his face, "are the spurious article—things of recent growth,
                  that in these times are accepted, or at least pass as the real thing without
                  examination. The modern friend is a sort of leech that, if we let
                     him, will suck our blood and then turn sick away. He is often the
                  creature that worms himself into our affections only to betray them; and gains our
                  confidence only to abuse it. But what do you suppose, is at the bottom of all
                  this? why self! yes, selfishness is the root of the evil; it is that
                  which makes men insincere, and as the world grows more selfish every day, and the
                  confidence of man in his fellow less and less, God only knows where, we shall
                  land. I forget who it was that said 'rare as is true love, friendship is rarer
                  still,' but no truer line was ever penned."
               "My dear Dick—."
               "Do not interrupt me," added the other, quickly, "if you would hear my story.
                  Listen first to my experience, and then say whether I am right or not."
               "You have heard that I was left an orphan at an early age, and never knew a
                  mother's gentle care. I was brought up by my paternal uncle, a good and honest old
                  gentleman, who managed so well the already ample fortune left me by my father,
                  that when I came of age it was nearly doubled. I will pass over the sorrows of my
                  childhood, and the trials of my youth, and come to speak of the period when
                  arrived at man's estate. You know where I was educated, and have heard me say that
                  the happiest days of my life, were those which I spent in the town of C—, for it
                  was there I first saw the bright eyes of Fanny Clark.
               "There was, I imagined, everything in her character to admire; gentle, generous
                  and noble. I fondly believed she possessed every virtue and attribute which could
                  adorn and shed true happiness round the social hearth, or shine and add lustre to
                  the circle of society to which she by birth belonged; having, however, rather an
                  inclination to the pure felicity of domestic life, than the giddy emptiness of the
                  fashionable world.
               "During my college career, her smiles cheered me and her applause rewarded my
                  successes. We were much together, and a sincere affection, on my side at least,
                  sprung up, which was to be consummated by marriage when I attained my
                  twenty-second year. At length the period
                  of my probation drew to a close, and a few weeks more would witness my
                  happiness.
               "While at college, I had formed a close intimacy with my class mate, Charles
                  Benson, a young man of high attainments and most gentlemanly deportment. There was
                  that in his countenance which would command respect from any capable of
                  appreciating intelligence; he was tall and of good proportions; his dark hair
                  parted over the right temple, fell in curls around his high clear forehead; his
                  eye was dark and brilliant, and his whole expression frank and manly.
               "We were sworn friends, and had, during all our college life, occupied and shared
                  in common whatever each possessed. I respected and loved him, for I verily believe
                  that every attribute which could adorn a man found a home in his own true
                  heart.
               "Of course he was my confidant in every thing, for I never doubted his sincerity
                  for a moment—he was well aware from the beginning, how matters stood between Miss
                  Clark and I, and was in the habit of visiting her frequently with me, and very
                  often as I imagined for me; sometimes taking a little note, and
                  always bringing me a tender message in return.
               "This had continued for some time; but when, for the two or three weeks preceding
                  my intended marriage, I was at home, in Virginia, busy with settlements and
                  lawyers, arranging my affairs and making preparations to receive my bride, being
                  without the restraint of my presence, the mask was thrown off, and his attentions
                  became constant and undisguised, and were kindly and openly received. They shared
                  together the morning rides; he was the guide of her rambles in the grove, and the
                  companion of her afternoon walks in the town, and evening again found him in her
                  parlors, listening to the music of her pure, sweet voice, skillfully accompanied
                  by the piano, on which she was a graceful performer. Strangers noticed their
                  intimacy, and many whispers reached my ears, that all was not right; but I had
                  unbounded confidence in the integrity of both, and, engaged as I was, paid no heed
                  to the warnings I received.
               "To be brief, the day arrived for my wedding—the guests had assembled and were
                  waiting the appearance of the bride. After some delay, to the utter consternation
                  of all, it was found that she was not in the house! I darted up stairs, past the
                  hurrying crowds of frightened servants, and ran wild with excitement and anxiety
                  into her apartments, for I could not believe they told me right. Too true; the
                  rooms were deserted, and on the centre table lay a note addressed to me,
                  announcing that she had cloped with my friend, Charles Benson."
               Here his voice seemed choked, and a painful struggle was evidently passing in his
                  breast; but after a few minutes he mastered his feelings, and resumed his story in
                  tones quite calm, but low and musically sad.
               "I went home with my uncle, where a painful illness followed this dreadful shock
                  to my feelings, and which well nigh put an end to my existence; but I recovered,
                  and my uncle advised me to go to Europe. I did so, and left my affairs in the
                  hands of my uncle, assisted by two friends of my boyhood. These friends were
                  brothers. They belonged to my native town, where their parents at one time
                  resided. Their father deserted his family, leaving them in great distress, and
                  went west, where he took sick of a fever and died. The poor mother struggled on a while, but her strength
                  failing her, she too sickened and died, leaving the two boys, then about ten years
                  of age, wholly unprotected and unprovided for. My uncle took them into his house,
                  and treated them as his own children, and had them thoroughly educated: finally
                  establishing them in business in New York, upon a liberal capital, which he
                  advanced. We three boys had grown up together, and the brotherly affection of our
                  childhood settled into a devoted friendship in maturer years; and in their honor I
                  had every confidence, and believed myself perfectly safe in their hands.
               "After being some years in Europe, my remittances suddenly stopped. I waited long
                  and anxiously for replies to my inquiring letters, but none came, and I determined
                  to return home. I did so: and then ascertained that my good old uncle had died
                  soon after my departure, and that my friends had proved false to their trust, and
                  squandered my whole means, except only the old homestead left me by my uncle, with
                  his blessing.
               "The loss of my property was a severe blow, but it was nothing to the regret and
                  suffering the betrayed confidence occasioned me. I had seen much of life while
                  abroad, and had opportunities to observe the selfishness of man, and the
                  hollowness of his friendship; but I was happy in the conviction of my heart that I
                  had at least two friends who were worthy of the name.
               "In this straight I turned, rather mistrustingly, I confess, to those who had
                  experienced my liberality when I had it in my power, but met only a cold repulse.
                  Those who were my debtors, pleaded to my claims the statute of limitations; and
                  those who used to court my society now knew me no more. We had changed places, and
                  I was the poor man now. To cap the climax of my wrongs and the ingratitude I had
                  met, and stab again my deeply wounded heart, my servant, whose life I had saved at
                  the risk of my own, and who had been in my service for years, now finding I was no
                  longer likely to be profitable to him, robbed me and fled. I might have overtaken
                  him, but I let him go."
               Here again he paused in deep and earnest thought; his features grew stern and
                  hard, and his eyes angry and severe—his form dilated, and he started to his feet
                  and paced hurriedly to and fro, looking, for a few moments, like a man who had
                  suddenly awakened to a sense of his wrongs, and resolved to avenge them. But the
                  expression presently faded from his broad brow, his features softened, the hard
                  feelings were breathed away in one deep drawn sigh, and he turned with the
                  careless manner and ease of his ordinary address towards Bramley, as he
                  continued:
               "I rented the old homestead, and left the scenes so full of painful memories to
                  me, and will now search for honor and sincerity in my species among a
                     new people in a new world.
               "Such is a brief outline of my story; it is enough, however, to show you that my
                  experience has been bitter—the finest feelings of my soul, torn from my breast and
                  scattered to the winds by the very hands that planted the seed and nourished the
                  offspring; the fire of friendship extinguished by the hands which it warmed, and
                  the happiness of my life marred by the ingratitude of those whom I trusted. Leave
                  me now, Frank. I know what your warm young heart and sympathetic nature would
                  prompt you to say, but do not speak to me now, and leave me for a little
                  while."
               
               He ceased, and extending himself upon a pile of furs, turned his face to the wall
                  and sighed heavily; while Bramley, much moved by his friend's recital, left the
                  hut as requested.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE VISTOR.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           What at thou,
                           
                           So withered and so wild in thy attire
                           That look'st not like inhabitant of earth,
                           And yet are on it? Thou should'st be woman;
                           And yet thy look forbids me to interpret
                           That thou art so.
                        
                     
                     —SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               FULL of his thoughts, and the emotions awakened by the painful narrative he had
                  just listened to, Bramley wandered on through the woods wholly regardless of the
                  direction he was taking, until his further progress was arrested by the still
                  waters of the Michipicoton river. He paused, and looked about him. The night was
                  calm and clear—not a leaf was stirring—and no sound disturbed the deep repose on
                  which the quiet moon shone down with unclouded splendor. The scene was one well
                  suited to the young man's mood, and drawing his blanket closer about him, he sat
                  down within the shadow of the pines, and gave himself up to his reflections.
               He had been thus engaged for perhaps half an hour, when he was suddenly startled
                  from his reverie by the same barking noise which he had heard at an early hour in
                  the evening. It now proceeded apparently from a clump of bushes which stood close
                  beside him, and he started to his feet to ascertain its cause, but quickly
                  crouched again within the friendly cover as he perceived the figure of a man
                  emerge and stand before him on the shore. The signal was instantly answered from
                  the other bank of the narrow stream, and a moment after a canoe put off into the
                  brilliant moonlight, and was paddled noiselessly across to the point where the man
                  stood ready to receive it. He stooped, as it approached, and took the prow in his
                  hand, when the person within rose, and springing lightly to the beach, helped, in
                  silence, to lift the little vessel from the water and conceal it in the bush.
               The new comer was a woman of most forbidding mien. She was nearly six feet in
                  height, and her figure spare and bony, made her seem to be taller still. She was
                  about forty years of age, though her shrivelled appearance belonged to one much
                  older. Her long gray hair hung dishevelled about her thin face, and descended
                  below the waist across her withered bust and fleshless arms. Her sharp nose
                  pointed over a mouth of great width, through whose thick lips two rows of large
                  white teeth displayed themselves,—while her cheek bones, prominent beneath her
                  shaggy brows, helped to bury deep in her head eyes of intense fire burning with a
                  heat like madness. Her only article of dress was a loose gown of buckskin open
                  from the throat to the waist, where its folds were confined by a bass wood string,
                  which served also to hold a long glittering knife of murderous appearance. Her
                  whole presence, clearly seen in the moonlight, was hideous; and the young man felt his blood grow cold within him,
                  as he looked upon her from his concealment.
               "Miskow smells a wolf," said she, turning to her companion; "there is a taint in
                  the air."*
                  
               
                  
                  *The Indian's sense of smell is remarkably acute, and the present instance is
                     not an unusual example. It may as well be observed, however, that all the
                     principal incidents narrated in this volume, are matters of actual
                     occurrence.
               
               "Confound the old hag," said Bramley to himself, "I suppose she means me."
               "'Tis the pale-faces on the hill," answered the male savage; "but they are asleep
                  now within their lodge."
               "Good," mentally continued Bramley, much relieved. "You are a knowing fellow, and
                  deserve a more frank acknowledgment than I am in a condition to make just
                  now."
               The two savages retired to the shaddow of the trees, close by which our young
                  friend lay, who now perceived with surprise, as the man turned round and the light
                  fell full on his face, that it was Wawpoosa. After advancing a few steps together
                  into the woods, the old woman turned abruptly on him, and with the air of one who
                  expects to receive something, said in a low, hissing voice:
               "Miskow has come."
               "It is well," answered the other, evasively.
               "She has come for her promised reward and her revenge," she continued.
               "Miskow shall have them both," said he, in the same tone.
               "It is good," chuckled the old hag, rubbing her hard palms together, and fixing
                  her eyes inquiringly and doubtingly upon the man.
               He said nothing more, however, and a pause ensued, during which they looked about
                  them as though each expected the other to proceed. They did not wait very long,
                  for the woman presently broke the silence by impatiently and peremptorily
                  demanding, in tones more harp and hissing than before:
               "Is the warrior prepared to redeem his pledge?"
               Thus pressed to the point, he answered in a tone intended to conciliate:
               "Not yet, good mother. Wawpoosa has been on the watch: he has set his traps, but
                  the eaglet escapes the snare."
               "It is a poor hunter," she replied, with bitterness, "that cannot decoy his
                  game."
               "But the game is frightened; it stirs not from the nest at night, and goes in
                  couples by the day, and there are many eyes besides in the woods, for the village
                  is close at hand. The good mother says, that he is a poor hunter who cannot decoy
                  his game. Has he not already brought it from the heart of the village to the
                  Elmgrove. Did he not use his influence to make the old man move his lodge; and has
                  he not done it?"
               "It is so," she answered, somewhat softened.
               "And the good mother now can approach unseen, and"—
               "Aye, aye," said she, interrupting him with a pleased expression, "it is good. And
                  Miskow can be like the hawk in the branches of a tree, while her prey sits on the
                  grass beneath, unsuspicious of danger. Ha! ha!" she continued, laughing, "Miskow
                  saw her game this morning seated in the Elm grove, and might have seized it then,
                  had it been alone."
               
               "Ah! who was there?" he inquired quickly, his eyes flashing with jealous
                  feeling.
               "Some sickly looking girl," she answered, without noticing his manner, which, on
                  this assurance, instantly subsided, however, into its former expression of
                  indifference. "Yes, a delicate bird she was, but had tune enough in her throat, no
                  doubt, to sing aloud, if the hawk had chanced to fall upon her fellow. This good
                  knife," she added, with a chuckle of fiendish delight, as she brandished the blade
                  above her head, "could have done its work, but."—
               "No! no!" said he, "that would lead to certain discovery; for these Chippeway
                  hounds have a keen scent for blood, and can follow its trail as surely as the
                  catamountain. To discover Miskow's I retreat, would be to deprive her of a just
                  vengeance; and would, besides, bring destruction upon Wawpoosa. No! no! when she
                  goes, it must seem as if she wandered of her own free will, and no trace of her
                  course be left."
               "The warrior is right. But Miskow has tasted of revenge, and she hungers for more.
                  She thought to watch until the old man sleeps to night, and hide her knife in his
                  hated bosom; yet the warrior has said why it should not be, and again the hand so
                  often raised to strike, falls harmless to her side."
               "The eagle flies high, and falls with a great noise."
               "True—and since her arrows will not reach, nor her arts entrap him, she will watch
                  with cunning patience, like the fox, to find his nest unguarded, and then snatch
                  away the young one he has left in fancied security behind him. The warrior did
                  well to make him leave the village, and build among the elms yonder, for now the
                  forgotten outcast can lurk close by his nest, and see him in the light of day when
                  he is proudest; can hear the sound of his voice, when he commands; and watch the
                  glance of his eye, when he stands upon the hill, and looks round upon the scene
                  below him. Oh! oh!" she continued, with an expression of intense hatred, wrapping
                  her long skinny arms about her, and rocking to and fro, "Oh, how glad would Miskow
                  be could she but cage him, and have him in her power. She would bind
                  him to the hot and naked rocks on the river shore, where the sun shines in the
                  day, so he might scorch in the heat, and could not stoop to drink the water at his
                  feet; she would tear his false bosom open with her fingers, and pluck away his
                  quivering heart; and she would pick with her nails his limbs in little pieces, and
                  scatter them to the hungry wolves about."
               Passion reached its climax here, and utterance was choked; her glaring eyes looked
                  wildly on her stretched fingers, which closed tightly in her palms, as if she
                  fancied her desires were within their grasp, and with the most devilish expression
                  upon her face, she remained in silent contemplation of the horrid pictures of her
                  own creation. At length her fixed attitude relaxed, and she said bitterly:
               "He had no pity on Miskow, and she will have her revenge; one by one his children
                  shall fall by her hands, and all he holds dear be taken away. Look at this," she
                  continued, fiercely, turning to her companion, and dangling a scalp by its tuft of
                  hair, before him, "Look at this, and say if the warrior knows it."
               "It is Tiowa's," he answered, having examined it with surprise.
               "True—the young chief—his son."
               
               "But how came it here, when he was killed by the Upas?"
               "Hate is a strong passion, and helps to many cunning devices," she said, with a
                  quiet leer.
               "But it cannot surely be that Miskow delivered him into the hands of his
                  enemies."
               "Even so; but Miskow is a Chippeway still, and though the enemies of her people
                  were the means of her own vengeance, still they must suffer for the shedding of a
                  Chippeway's blood; so she painted on the bark the story of Tiowa's death, and sent
                  it to the village of his people."
               It would be no easy matter to follow the threads of reflection now silently
                  pursued by these two creatures; but a feeling of envy, mingled with admiration,
                  seemed to be uppermost in Wawpoosa's mind; for, wicked and vindictive as he was by
                  nature, and skillful as unscrupulous in working out his ends, he still felt he was
                  now in the presence of a master spirit, who could teach even his black heart to
                  grew a few shades blacker; and he envied while he feared, and admired while he
                  hated. After a few minutes, his expression changed; and, assuming a tone and
                  jesture of quiet indifference he addressed his companion.
               "The hunter would know of the bird he has already caught, and caged with his good
                  mother."
               "The bird is safe, but the hunter cannot have it, until he catches the other and
                  brings it to Miskow."
               "Wawpoosa will try; let his good mother trust him."
               "It is enough; and when the next new moon has risen thrice, Miskow will be here."
                  Thus saying, she stepped into her canoe, and paddled rapidly away, muttering
                  tering—"Trust him, indeed,—he is a fool, if he thinks she would put faith in one
                  so treacherous and false as he."
               "The old she devil," said the other, as he turned away, "a bullet from this rifle
                  should still her mischief for ever, if she were not useful at the present time.
                  Deliver up the young and beautiful Winona to such as she, to work her vengeance
                  on? No, no; at least," he added, on a moment's reflection; "not if Wawpoosa can
                  have her himself."
               Leaving the shore, he rapidly climbed the hill; and young Bramley, who had been an
                  interested observer of the curious interview, now crept from his place of
                  concealment, and followed cautiously after.
               The savage moved with noiseless steps towards the lodge occupied by the young men,
                  which he closely examined from without, and then throwing himself upon the ground,
                  drew himself towards the entrance, and stealthily raising a corner of the blanket,
                  leisurely inspected the interior.
               "Humph," said he, as he arose and retired, "here is but one; where can the other
                  be?"
               Bramley, who had got quietly round to the other end of the hut, so as to give the
                  appearance of coming from the opposite direction, now advanced and entered,—seeing
                  which, the savage retired. Wood was fast asleep, and, unwilling to disturb him,
                  Bramley lay down to seek the repose he so much needed, but he could not still his
                  busy mind, occupied with the painful and extraordinary narratives he had heard,
                  and he tossed restlessly about for several hours before sleep visited his
                  pillow.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE WARNING.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Our dangers and delights are near allies;
                           From the same stem the rose and prickle rise.
                        
                     
                     —ALEYN.
                  
               
               "A CURIOUS story," said Ungus, who had listened to Bramley's account of the last
                  night's scene on the river bank, with all of an Indian's interest in what he
                  conceives to be marvellous, and maintained throughout one fixed attitude of
                  attention, like a figure carved in wood, only testifying his notice by an
                  occasional guttural interjection. "A curious story," said he, now speaking for the
                  first time, and looking up into the young man's face; "but who the woman is, or
                  was, Ungus cannot tell."
               "There is some mystery about it," said Wood, "that I should much like to unravel,
                  in which Nishtagau seems to be concerned; and I think that Wawpoosa has already
                  possessed himself of the secret, and hence his intimacy and influence with the old
                  man."
               "Very likely; and this explains at once what appeared to me inexplicable before.
                  However, there is mischief astir, and with the aid of our good friend here, we
                  must try and thwart it. I suppose the first step will be to ascertain the address
                  of this amiable old lady?"
               "Yes," answered Wood, "that is all important."
               "Well, I'll tell you what it is, Dick," continued the young man, with that quick
                  decision which belonged to his impulsive nature, "I have a plan by which I think
                  this may be accomplished, and matters here looked after at the same time: which is
                  simply to divide our forces; you remaining here to watch our Winnebago friend, and
                  Ungus and I following the old lady. Now stop, Dick," he continued, as the other
                  attempted to interrupt him; "just wait until I have finished, which will be almost
                  immediately, for I shall only urge one reason in support of my proposition, and
                  that is, that the world will excuse in me, and attribute to my youth and
                  inexperience, what would be condemned as unpardonable in you; for it really would
                  not do for a man of your age, and knowledge of the world, to be seen running after
                  a woman as old and ugly as the one in question. Ha! ha! ha!" he added, laughing,
                  "that settles that, and you must leave the old woman to me."
               "You are pleased to be merry, Frank," answered the other, joining in the laugh,
                  "but—
               "But!—no buts, Dick. It must be as I have said, and Ungus and I will go; what say
                  you," he continued, turning to the Indian, "will you go?"
               "Ungus will go," he answered, without moving.
               "That's right—now, when shall we start?"
               "It is easy to follow a fresh trail, when it is found."
               "Very well—I shall be ready in half an hour, and will meet you here." So saying,
                  he took Wood by the arm and they walked together towards their lodge.
               "I do not like to let you go without me, Frank."
               "Oh, you need have no apprehensions on my account. I shall be under excellent
                  guidance, and shall be quite safe. Besides," he added, with a quiet smile, "you
                  came here to observe and study Indian nature, and look for an honest man; which of
                  course you can best do by remaining among them; I, on the other hand, am only here
                  for the fun of the thing, and can well be spared; but seriously, I think that a watch should be kept
                  upon the movements of Wawpoosa, for if matters should not go with him as he would
                  wish, I think it most likely that he will attempt some violence towards the girl,
                  which, by a timely interference, may be frustrated."
               "I believe you are right in the main, but still I do not like the plan."
               "Never mind, Dick, I shall be gone but a few days perhaps; but you must keep our
                  expedition secret."
               "Oh, of course."
               "Then the rest will go well.
               It was in vain that Wood remonstrated against his determination. The young man had
                  made up his mind, and with the characteristic impatience of youth, only hurried
                  his preparations the more, so that in a little while he was at the place
                  appointed, well armed and equipped for the journey.
               
               Wood was not long in finding consolation for the absence of his friend—not that he
                  esteemed him lightly, or that he did not love him as a friend should be loved; for
                  with all his professions, and bitter feeling towards the world, his heart was
                  warm, and generous and sympathetic; but he soon found that Winona's pretty face
                  was always full of smiles when she met him, and she evidently regarded his frank
                  and manly bearing with a modest favor, winning and attractive in itself, and if
                  the truth must now be told, there was much in the maid's bright eyes and artless
                  manners that was pleasing, and well suited the mood of his enthusiastic nature. He
                  loved to sit and listen to the music of her voice, when she sang the wild legends
                  of her race, or told, in the flowery language of her nation, the simple stories
                  which her mind suggested, or her memory knew.
               And thus in pleasant converse, for hours every day, they sat beneath the
                  over-hanging trees upon the river's bank, heedless of the flight of time. The
                  early morning always saw the maiden gathering moss to strew upon her chosen bower;
                  she was abstracted then and sighed, and passed her favorite flowers by, unheeded
                  and untouched; or, if perchance she stooped to gather one, she crushed it quickly
                  in her hand, and petulantly threw it from her; while her glance would often wander
                  wistfully away, only to be recalled with a blush to resume its air of patient
                  expectation. And so she'd wait his coming. And when, at length, her listening ear
                  caught the wished for sound, her whole appearance changed, and hastily brushing
                  away the dew that hung upon her lashes, she lit her face with smiles of pleasure
                  and let their abundant sweetness play around her ripe and rosy lips; and 
                     
                        "Lo! all the elements of love are here—
                        The burning blush, the smile, the sigh, the tear."
                     
                  
               
               Together, then, they passed the day, which seemed too brief for their enjoyment;
                  for, whether in their mossy retreat upon the river's shore, or in their light
                  canoe dancing along the water's surface; or whether they hunted the deer upon the
                  hills or wandered through the forest to find the wild bees' hidden store, the
                  coming night always sent her messengers too soon to warn them to their homes: and
                  then 
                     
                        "On his fond arm with pleasing gaze she hung,
                        And heard sweet music murmur o'er his tongue;
                        Hand lock'd in hand, with gentle ardor prest,
                        Pour'd soft emotions through the heaving breast;
                        
                        In magic transport, heart with heart entwin'd,
                        And in sweet languor lost the melting mind."
                     
                  
               
               Days thus passed and reckoned up to weeks, but they seemed to know it not, and
                  each new sun that shone found them happier than the last, for they were more and
                  more engrossed with each other.
               
               But it may be asked where was Wawpoosa all this time. He had not been seen since
                  the day after the the departure of Bramley and Ungus, now nearly three weeks gone;
                  and though there were few who desired his presence, there were many who remarked,
                  and spoke anxiously, too, of his long absence, for it boded no good, in their
                  opinion, to the other two, towards whom he was known to possess unfriendly
                  feelings; and the question often asked, where were they? none could answer. They
                  had not been heard of; no one in the village had seen them go, except Wood, and he
                  only, knew the object of their journey; and, as he intimated nothing, and indeed
                  did not seem to notice it, the rest were left wholly to conjecture, though they
                  all believed that the absence of one might be explained or be connected with that
                  of the others.
               Thus things remained for some time, when the hunters, returning from the chase,
                  began to tell of a strange Indian, seen prowling near the pass in the rocky
                  mountains which sheltered the village on the north. They could give no definite
                  account however of the mysterious visitor, for none had had a perfect view of him,
                  and he always succeeded in eluding a pursuit; but they all concurred that he was a
                  stranger, and perhaps a spy of the Upas who might be on their way to revenge the
                  recent destruction of their village, and the slaughter of their people. This idea
                  rapidly gained ground, and the excitement became intense. Scouts and small war
                  parties traversed the country in every direction for miles around, but though they
                  caught occasional glimpses of the "lone Indian," they gleaned nothing which could
                  be added to the stock of information.
               Of all this Wood heard nothing, for he never went into the village or mixed among
                  the people, but gave himself entirely up to the enjoyment of his newly found
                  happiness, in the society of his mistress. He sometimes spoke to her the doubts he
                  felt for young Bramley's safety, but she was always ready to dispel his fears and
                  soothe his anxiety, and so he let the days pass one by one away, hoping each night
                  that the morrow would bring his friend.
               This was the state of affairs when one afternoon the lovers sat within their
                  little arbor by the river shore. A cosy moss strewn nook between three giant
                  cedars standing on the slope, and closed about with sturdy vines, whose matted
                  stems falling from the trees, were clothed in living green. But the sky was
                  over-cast, and the wind was cold, and the maiden nestling closer within the arm
                  that supported her, rested her head upon the young man's breast. They had for some
                  time both been busy with their thoughts, when he said:
               "And would the maiden leave these scenes of her happy childhood, the friends of
                  her youth, her home and her people, to follow a stranger in a distant land?"
               "She will go."
               At this instant a hissing noise was heard close behind them, and the girl
                  started.
               "Do not be alarmed," he said, "'tis only some little serpent hissing in the grass." And then added,
                  drawing her closer to him, and sinking his voice: "And will Winona be the white
                  man's bride, and the mother of his children?"
               "She has said it," was the whispered reply.
               "Hiss! hiss-s-s-s!" again went the snake, and the maiden sprang to her feet and
                  looked about; but she found nothing of the intruder, and again resumed her seat
                  just as Irenene stepped from her canoe upon the beach. She beckoned to her, and
                  the gentle one glided to Winona's side; and with a smile upon her sweet sad face,
                  murmured in her friend's ear:
               "Does the maiden remember Irenene's dream?"
               But before Winona could reply, a barbed arrow, marked with red and black symbols,
                  whistled through the air and struck quivering in the tree beside them.
               Surprised, the maids glanced from the warning missile to each other. But a
                  moment's mute regard sufficed to reassure them, and Irenene, reaching out her
                  hand, plucked the arrow from the tree. She observed it attentively for some time
                  without speaking, as though studying its meaning, and having finished her
                  scrutiny, handed it to Wood, saying:
               "'Tis a messenger from Wawpoosa's bow, and signifies that pidgeons should not
                  venture too near the harfang's prey."
               "Confound the fellow's impudence," said he, indignantly. "What does he mean by
                  that?"
               "But there is more besides," she added, without noticing his remark, "the white
                  man's friend is in danger, and calls for his assistance."
               "Enough," said he, his whole manner and appearance changing. "Winona, dearest,
                  duty, which I fear has been too long neglected, calls me now away. Hasten to your
                  lodge, and keep yourself closely within; or at least do not venture forth alone,
                  for I have reason to fear that mischief may be attempted on you. Good Irenene, to
                  your care and watchfulness I commit her, and I pray you let her not out of your
                  sight for a single moment until I return." And with these directions, hurriedly
                  given, he urged the girls quickly through the woods, and having seen them safely
                  to their lodge, started off to the village at a quick pace.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE CHIEF.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           For on his brow the swelling vein
                           Throbb'd, as if back upon his brain
                           The hot blood ebb'd and flow'd again.
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Now, what is this that haunts me like my shadow,
                           Frisking and mumming like an elf in moonlight?
                        
                     
                     BEN JONSON.
                  
               
               ON reaching the square before the great council lodge, Wood found a number of the
                  people assembled and much excitement prevailing among them, owing to the general
                  belief that the mysterious stranger in the mountains was a spy of the Upas, and
                  that their enemies were consequently somewhere near. This impression was
                  strengthened by the report of the scouts who had been sent out to reconnoitre.
                  They had seen and given him chase, but the broken nature of the ground, and the
                  numerous crevices and caves which existed, enabled him to baffle all pursuit, and escape at the very moment when they
                  seemed most secure of him. He could be no friend, they argued, and could mean no
                  good, or he would not avoid them thus; therefore, he must be an
                  enemy.
               But there were other matters to trouble them besides the mystery of the strange
                  Indian. The absence of Wawpoosa, in whose good faith few had much confidence, and
                  the disappearance of Ungus and the young white man, were equally unaccountable to
                  them, and these with other accumulated causes easily worked their excitable
                  natures into a high degree of restlessness.
               Wood lost no time in calling about him a few of the principal warriors, and only
                  suppressing all reference to Nishtagau, laid briefly before them the story of
                  Wawpoosa's midnight meeting with the hag Miskow, to which Bramley had been a
                  witness; also, the object of the young man's journey, and his own suspicions
                  respecting the cause of his continued absence.
               He was listened to with profound attention throughout, and aroused in the breasts
                  of his hearers, feelings of the deepest indignation and resolves of speedy
                  vengeance against the treacherous Wawpoosa. But nothing could be actually
                  undertaken until formally discussed in council, and directed or sanctioned by that
                  body; and in order, therefore, that no time might be lost, Wood volunteered to
                  visit all the chiefs and invite them to meet in the morning. He then selected a
                  few men, who at once submitted themselves to his directions, and leaving them with
                  orders to keep a strict watch upon suspected points, proceeded to summon the
                  council.
               Much that was before incomprehensible to the Indians was now explained; and,
                  though the appearance of the stranger in the mountains was still unaccounted for,
                  yet Wood's confident tone and collected manner, soon calmed away their
                  apprehensions; and his energy and decision quickly inspired them with a sense of
                  his superiority and fitness to command, and tranquility, in consequence, was in a
                  great measure restored, long before the day had passed. Having brought matters to
                  this favorable turn, and visited all the lodges of the different chiefs, he
                  hastened his steps towards the wigwaum of Nishtagau.
               It was quite dark long before he reached his destination; but though he was
                  familiar with all the paths through the woods, and experienced no inconvenience on
                  that account, yet he approached slowly and stealthily; and, as he drew hearer,
                  dropped on his hands and knees and peered into every bush as he advanced, as if he
                  expected to find some one concealed whom he desired to discover without himself
                  being seen. At length he reached the edge of a little area before the hut, from
                  which he could discern the outline of the lodge, and the light shining through the
                  door from the cheerful fire within; and there he lay, still and close within the
                  dense bushes, and watched for some time. He had not, however, been in this
                  position very long, before his quick glance observed a shadow creeping up towards
                  the lodge from the other side. It advanced to the door, where it rose up, and,
                  standing in the beams of light which shone through the blanket, displayed the
                  figure of a man. He stood for some time and looked within the lodge, listening to
                  the conversation going on, and, having apparently satisfied his curiosity, started
                  rapidly off into the woods towards the river.
               
               "I thought so," said Wood to himself, leaving his concealment and advancing.
                  "But," he added, in the figurative style of his Indian friends, "the hound is on
                  his scent, and the fox will need all his cunning."
               He entered the hut, and found Nishtagau and his family preparing to retire for the
                  night. Irenene was there, too, faithful to her promise not to leave Winona, and he
                  could hear the musical voices of the friends from behind the screen which
                  concealed them. The old man was sitting, before the fire—he looked grave and
                  thoughtful, but the deep lines upon his broad forehead smoothed themselves away as
                  he greeted Wood with a smile, and motioned him to a seat, at the same time
                  offering him the pipe from his lips.
               "Is the pale chief restless, that he leaves his lodge," he inquired with kindness;
                  "or is he lonely without his friend."
               "In good truth, I am both," answered Wood.
               "Let him repose here then, and Nishtagau will be his companion."
               "Thanks—but I seek neither. It is time to watch, when treachery goes abroad; and
                  it is well to look for the snake when his warning rattle is heard."
               "Ah," said the old man, bending forward and knitting his brows; "does the pale
                  face hear the serpent singing in the grass?"
               "I do; and if you will step without for a little while, I will tell you where he
                  hides."
               "No, it is better here," he answered, after an instant's reflection, "for the
                  trees listen and the leaves have ears."
               "As you please," said Wood, and then sinking his voice to a whisper he poured into
                  the other's astonished ears, the story of Wawpoosa's meeting with his mysterious
                  terious visitor, and the subsequent departure of Bramley and Ungus in search of
                  the woman's retreat. He mentioned also their continued absence, and the suspicions
                  which he entertained respecting the vicinity and designs of Wawpoosa, derived from
                  the warning arrow he had received in the afternoon.
               The narrative, easily operating on the quick temper of a man like Nishtagau, born
                  and bred to savage empire, whose authority was absolute—whose very glance was
                  law—worked up to intensity all the violent passions of his untutored nature. He
                  felt at once, that he, the wise, the good, and the great in the estimation of his
                  people, had been fooled, exposed and humbled before them, by the very man they
                  despised and feared—by the man who owed him the most—even his very existence. A
                  homeless wanderer whom he had received and sheltered. A naked and hungry wretch
                  whom he had clothed and fed, and a friendless outcast, whom he had trusted and
                  favored. And now, wronged and betrayed as he conceived himself, he vowed a quick
                  and bitter vengeance. But though a storm, of terrible feeling like this was raging
                  fiercely within the old man's breast, he controlled it all to outward view—his
                  face was as calm as the sleeping girls behind him, and the most keen observer
                  could detect no sign of emotion.
               It was some minutes before the silence, which succeeded Wood's story, was broken;
                  but at length the old man, turning abruptly towards his companion, inquired:
               "Does the pale-face know anything of the stranger who lurks in the mountain
                  pass?
               "Nothing whatever," said Wood; "but I mean to watch to-night, myself, and endeavor
                  to discover who he may be."
               
               "It is good," the other answered, "and Nishtagau will watch there too."
               "No!" interposed Wood, "your presence will not be necessary, and I think, you had
                  better stay by your own lodge; you might be needed here, and I can watch, the
                  pass."
               "The Okemaw of the Chippeway has spoken," said the old man, drawing himself up
                  with some hauteur, and without another word left the hut, and proceeded towards
                  the village, while Wood, piqued at his manner followed by another path, and
                  resolved that he would be slow to offer his advice again, where it was so
                  ungraciously received.
               Wood had walked quietly on for some time, occupied with his thoughts, before he
                  noticed that a shadow not his own darted from tree to tree, and followed close
                  beside him. He stopped and peered into the darkness, but could discover nothing;
                  and thinking that he might have been mistaken, again moved on a few paces, where
                  he paused and turned in time to see the figure of a man spring from behind one
                  tree to the shelter of another nearer where he stood. The night was too dark to
                  distinguish forms with much accuracy, but Wood was confident now that he was
                  followed by some one, and he at once determined to discover who. With one bound he
                  reached the tree which concealed his follower, but equally quick and active he
                  avoided him, and dodged behind another and another, closely and eagerly pursued by
                  Wood. Finding, however, after a hard trial, that he could not catch the fellow, he
                  determined to resort to stratagem, and leaping quickly aside, got near a thicket
                  and threw himself upon his face. The other, missing his pursuer, and willing
                  enough to rest awhile, stood still and looked about him; but even his quick eyes
                  could not penetrate the deep shadow of the thicket along whose edge Wood now crept
                  cautiously towards him, and he was therefore unaware of the latter's approach
                  until, with a cry of exultation, he sprang to his feet, and seizing the fellow by
                  the throat, hurled him to the ground.
               "Now," said Wood, stopping over his prisoner, "who are you that gives me all this
                  trouble?"
               "Only poor Ingin," answered a whining voice, in bad English.
               "Only a poor Indian, you rascal," said Wood, shaking him angrily, and rising to
                  his feet as he recognized the greasy individual whose acquaintance he had first
                  made at the dog feast. "What did you follow me for?"
               "Indian loves white man."
               "Confound you," was the rather ungracious reply, "the next time you attempt to
                  play me such a trick, I'll tan that red skin of yours until it becomes redder than
                  ever it was before. Be off with you now, and be careful how you come near me
                  again."
               The fellow regained his feet and his spirits at the same time, and following after
                  Wood, who was walking fast towards the village, became very talkative as
                  usual.
               "Ingin bin in white village," said he pleasantly, by way of beginning a
                  conversation.
               "I wish you had stayed there," said Wood, recovering his good humor so far as to
                  answer him.
               "Ingin get tired."
               "Tired of what?"
               "White man great hunter—Ingin love to hunt too—but white man great
                  hunter, and Ingin get tired."
               "Got tired of hunting, did you.?"
               
               "Yes."
               "How so?"
               "Cos white man great hunter—when he no find bear and deer, he hunt he
                  friend—he hunt poor Ingin in the woods at night. Ha! ha! ha," he laughed, darting
                  away into the bushes, closely followed by a stick from Wood's hand; "Ha! ha! ha,
                  white man great hunter."
               "The saucy dog," said Wood to himself, "here I have lost at least an hour through
                  his foolery, and when I let him off a sound thrashing, he becomes saucy. However
                  it is not worth while to follow him, so let the fellow go."
               He quickened his pace, and walked on in silence for some time, when a voice at his
                  elbow said.
               "Ingin bin in white village."
               "What! you here again," said Wood, seizing hold of him, "now I shall not let you
                  off as I did just now, so prepare yourself for a whipping," and breaking a heavy
                  switch from a small maple near him, he raised it over the head of the trembling
                  wretch.
               "Stop, stop!" said he, "Ingin love white man—he come to tell something what he
                  like to know."
               "Well, sir, what have you to tell me?" inquired Wood, still holding the stick
                  above the culprit's head.
               "Ingin love white man—he no beat poor Ingin—he throw away stick."
               "Well," said the other, smiling in spite of himself, and throwing down the stick,
                  "what now; speak quickly, or else—"
               "Yes, yes, Ingin speak very fast."
               "Well, go on, go on."
               "Yes; Ingin go on; stoop ear down, and me whister," he added, cautiously looking
                  about him, and having ing satisfied himself that no one was within hearing, he
                  said, "me come from strange Ingin in the mountains for white man."
               "What; did you say that you have come from the stranger now lurking in the
                  mountain pass, and who has created so much anxiety lately?" inquired the other,
                  slowly and distinctly.
               "Yes."
               "And for me?"
               "Yes."
               "Why, you rascal, did you not tell me this before?"
               "White man great hunter."
               "Come, sir; no more nonsense, but lead me the way. Remember, however, that if I
                  find you play me false, I'll blow your brains out, as surely as I live."
               The two then turned into another path, which led round the village, and presently
                  began to mount the hill, whose brow they crossed and descended on the other side,
                  where they traversed several intricate windings among the rocks, until they
                  reached the mouth of a small cave. Here they halted, and the Indian, stooping
                  close to the ground uttered a low sound, exactly resembling the cry of the red
                  deer.
               The cry was immediately answered from within, and a moment after, the figure of a
                  tall and well-formed man stood before them.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE ASSASSINATION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Is there a crime
                           Beneath the roof of heaven, that stains the soul
                           Of men with more infernal hue, than damn'e.
                           Assassination.
                        
                     
                     —CIBBER.
                  
               
               THE grey light of early morning had scarcely raised the curtain of night from the
                  landscape, when an old woman, her hair and garments flying about her in wild
                  disorder, ran screaming from the woods into the village, and, with terrific cries,
                  as though of pain or anguish, as she rushed from lodge to lodge, soon roused the
                  whole place and brought the wondering people in crowds about her. She seemed, and
                  looked, indeed, like one bereft of reason, suddenly seized with a fit of raving
                  madness, and threw her arms about and tore her hair as she hurried to and fro with
                  reckless vehemence. The greatest consternation and confusion immediately
                  prevailed, and all were endeavoring by loud and simultaneous inquiries to learn
                  the meaning of this extraordinary summons; but she could answer nothing
                  coherently; her utterance was choaked, and, in the midst of the excitement,
                  overtaxed nature gave way, and the woman sank, exhausted by her fit, insensible to
                  the earth, leaving the crowd to nurse their curiosity, which grew in intensity
                  every moment. Numbers, too, were constantly arriving from distant parts of the
                  village, whose presence and whose voices, being added to the Babel already there,
                  but swelled the ample noise and made confusion more.
               Presently, however, the towering form of Nishtagau drew near, and the storm was
                  quickly hushed; the clamouring tongues were still, and silence came upon the scene
                  like the sudden shifting in a play. The chief looked deeply anxious and more stern
                  than usual as he paused and cast an inquiring glance about him; but no one cared
                  to answer even what they could, and he moved impatiently on, parting the crowd
                  before him with a gesture of his hand, until he stood before the prostrate figure
                  of the woman, and recognised, with anxious surprise, his wife. Yes!
                  it was indeed Oconee who lay at his feet upon the grass, and a dread of some great
                  sorrow rushing on his mind, already excited with the events of the last night,
                  caused him to stagger as if he had been struck. But he almost instantly recovered,
                  and casting one haughty look about him, raised his wife in his arms as easily as
                  if she had been a child:
               "Back!" said, he addressing the crowd in a voice of thunder, waving in his hand a
                  long and murderous looking knife, while passion burned upon his cheek and his eyes
                  glared wildly about. "Back! I say."
               But it needed not the second command, to scatter the bewildered people before
                  their angry chief, and send them tumbling over each other in confusion to their
                  homes, but little wiser than when they left.
               Quickly bearing his wife to the lodge of one of the nearest chiefs, Nishtagau
                  gently laid her down, and ordering such restoratives as the nature of the case
                  seemed to require, and his experience knew, he left her in charge of the women,
                  and started off towards his hut, with sad forebodings he scarcely knew of what,
                  but felt that some great evil had befallen him there, which he should soon enough
                  discover.
               
               He moved with speed at first, but his step slackened as he drew nearer, and the
                  suspicions and fears which Wood had uttered in his ears, now returned upon his
                  mind with ten-fold force, and seemed to ring in the air about him, like sounds of
                  dreadful warning. The chief soon merged into the man, and the man was lost in the
                  father, when at last he stood before his hut, and paused for one irresolute
                  moment, to call his children by their names. But it was only for a moment, and
                  then, with all the impetuosity of his nature, and a desperate desire to know the
                  worst at once, he dashed aside the covering at the door and entered.
               In one eager glance he comprehended all. His children were both gone, and a scene
                  of horror occupied their place, that he was not prepared to meet. Across the pile
                  of skins that served as the bed-place of the girls the night before, lay the
                  bleeding form of the good and gentle Irenene. She was still warm, but quite dead,
                  and a smile of pleasure lingered on her lips, as though her pure spirit had
                  departed in joy and left behind the imprint of its last earthly feeling upon the
                  tenement of clay which contained it. She was stabbed through the heart, and had
                  died instantly.
               Long he stood—his head bowed down—and looked with fascinated gaze upon all that
                  remained of the sweet young girl, the friend and companion of his own lost child,
                  in whose defence she had probably lost her life. His cheeks were pale, for all
                  their blood had left to swell the tide that almost burst his heart; his breath
                  came short and quick through his parted lips, and convulsed his naked bosom, which
                  now, so cruelly bereft, was far too full to even curse the author of his wrong.
                  Memories of years rushed in rapid succession through his mind, and thoughts of his
                  stolen children, whom he might never see again, made him feel, for once at least,
                  the pangs of deepest grief. His was the sorrow which 
                     "Spares the eye, to wound the heart the more;"
                   and he seemed for awhile as if his nature had congealed, and his limbs
                  stiffened into stone.
               But at length, with a sudden start, he recalled his wandering senses, and looked
                  around him, as he wiped the cold moisture from his heavy brows, now more lowering
                  than ever, and stamped with stern resolve of dreadful purpose. Turning away, he
                  left the hut and commenced a rapid observation of the signs without. There were
                  marks of many feet upon the grass and leaves about, which were visible to his
                  practiced eye; but it was not long before he selected one from the rest, whose
                  trail he followed quickly up until it led him to the river shore near Winona's
                  arbor. There he found other foot marks, which he stooped down and attentively
                  examined, and then, seeing no other signs or traces of those whom he sought,
                  returned slowly and thoughtfully to the village.
               His wife was recovered from her fit; but she could add little to what he already
                  knew, for the abduction and murder had been consummated while she, only a few feet
                  apart from the unfortunate girls, slept soundly, and wholly unconscious of the
                  dreadful tragedy which was acting about her.
               The hour for the meeting of the council was now at hand, and Nishtagau proceeded
                  to the great lodge, where the chiefs and principal people were already assembled,
                  and waited but his presence to commence their deliberations. But new matter of
                  surprise and conjecture, and fresh subject of difficulty, arose at the outset, for
                  it was now discovered that Wood was not
                  present. Messengers were at once dispatched for him in every direction, who,
                  however, were compelled, after a fruitless search in every nook and corner, to
                  return without him; and without, in fact, any intelligence whatever concerning
                  him, for no one had seen him since the last night. This new mystery added
                  materially to the general gloom, for he was not only much reckoned on by the
                  younger chiefs for advice and service, but he was also the principal witness to
                  address the council.
               Nishtagua, however, to whom all eyes were turned, betrayed no concern amid all the
                  untoward circumstances by which he was surrounded, and his calmness and dignity
                  served to awe into concealment, if not allay into security, the previous
                  apprehensions of the people. Quietly he took his seat, and with a gesture of the
                  hand commanded the proceedings to commence, which, as usual in all such cases,
                  were with the ceremonious smoking of the calumet. After the preliminaries were
                  over, the chief rose in his place, and addressed the assembly in a style at once
                  easy, graceful, and impressive, amid the profoundest silence and attention:
               "Chippeways, friends, and warriors;" said he, "many times before to-day, the voice
                  of Nishtagau has been heard in the councils of his people, and they have always
                  listened to his words with attention, for they were loud and strong, and were of
                  things which concerned the welfare of the nation. But now he speaks of things
                  which concern himself, and his voice is soft and weak, and his words are sorry.
                  Yet, the Chippeways will hear them.
               "Brothers, the manitou of evil sent a lying spirit from his home in the far off
                  mountains, and he came to dwell in the once happy lodge of Nishtagau. It is now
                  desolated, for he has driven away the affections that were warmed by the fires
                  which burned on its hearth—and it is thrown down, for the hopes that were as
                  props, and held it up, have been taken from its support, and carried off to wither
                  and die in captivity and disgrace.
               "Brothers, this wicked spirit came one day in the form of a man who was weak and
                  sick, and naked and hungry, and laid himself down in the shelter of a great oak
                  tree, and leaned heavily against it. But after a little while, he got strong and
                  well, and had clothes and food; and he raised himself up and stood alone; but he
                  was not so big as the tree, for the tree was a great tree; neither could he reach
                  its branches, for they were proud, and grew high, so the evil that was in his
                  heart made him feel angry, and he turned upon the young sapling that took shelter
                  by its side, and killed it, and then strove to destroy, besides, the old oak that
                  had given him support. But he was not strong enough, so he called up an angry wind
                  against it, which came with great strength to throw it down—but the tree was
                  sturdy and was not broken, and it still stands erect, though its branches are torn
                  away, and its leaves scattered on the ground."
               Here he paused for a few moments, as if to give time to his auditors to reflect on
                  his allegory, and then, in a tone of deep and expressive sadness, continued:
               "Brothers, Wawpoosa is the evil spirit that brought the angry wind; Irenene is the
                  young sapling, whom he killed; Nishtagau is the great oak tree, and his children
                  are the torn branches. Nishtagau has now no children."
               It is impossible to describe the pathos with which the last words were uttered. The strong man shook with
                  emotion as he said, "Nishtagau has now no children," and bowed down his head. But
                  presently, rousing himself, he continued:
               "Brothers, Nistagau will follow on the trail he has seen, till it leads him to
                  vengeance or death. Let ten of his young men bear him company on the path."
               Here he paused again for some minutes, during which the deepest silence reigned,
                  and then resumed, taking up another branch of his address:
               "Brothers, there was a stranger in the mountains who has caused some anxiety lest
                  he should prove to be a spy of the Upas finding a way for the enemy to approach.
                  Nishtagau has seen him, and heard him speak. Yes," said he, in answer to the
                  general exclamation of surprise which was drawn from his audience by this
                  statement, "Nishtagau has heard the sound of his voice, and could have placed his
                  hand upon his head. Last night, when the fires in the lodges had died away, and
                  sleep rested on the eyes of the braves, Nishtagau went up into the mountain pass,
                  and concealed himself in the cave where the water falls; and in a little while
                  Wiewe passed, leading the pale chief, Wood, along the path to the valley of the
                  great cave where the stranger awaited their arrival."
               Here signs of surprise and anger against what many supposed the white man's
                  treachery, manifested themselves, in a marked degree, which, the chief observing,
                  hastened to correct.
               "The pale-face," said he, "is brave and faithful; and his heart is as true as his
                  arm is strong: so the warriors need fear no deceit or wrong from him. Let them
                  love him as a good friend."
               His manner, in uttering this little defence of Wood's motives, was warm and quick
                  like his own nature; but he relapsed into his former quiet tone, as he resumed his
                  narrative:
               "Nishtagau followed the white chief, and his guide Wiewe, until they came to the
                  great cave, where they made a sound like the cry of a deer, and the stranger
                  immediately appeared and invited them to enter. Nishtagau then listened, and soon
                  learned that the stranger was a friend, who only wanted to communicate with one in
                  the village, and know something of the state of affairs there. But after lying in
                  wait for some time, without meeting with the right party, he at length surprised
                  and fell upon Wiewe, whom he carried off to his cave, and soon convincing him he
                  meant him no harm, learned much that he wished to ascertain, and then finding that
                  Ungus was away, sent for the white man Wood.
               "Nishtagau expected to see the white man in the council this morning, but he has
                  no doubt gone away with the stranger, who will trouble the Chippeways no
                  more."
               Great was the effect produced by the narrative of the chief upon his auditors,
                  whose passions were variously swayed by its different parts. The death of Irenene,
                  and the abduction of Winona and her brother, wrought in their savage breasts,
                  feelings of the direst vengeance upon the treacherous author of so much wrong; and
                  every hand was ready to strike, and every heart to bleed for the honor and
                  happiness of their stern but much beloved chief.
               The latter portion of his address, though it had not fully cleared up the mystery
                  that hung about the stranger ger, yet
                  entirely put an end to all apprehensions on that score, and a good deal of
                  satisfaction was rather noisily expressed all round the room, the moment the chief
                  stopped speaking; but the assembly was very soon hushed again into the profoundest
                  silence, by the sound of yells and whoops of joy, which, at first reaching their
                  ears from a distant part of the village, drew nearer every instant, increasing in
                  volume as it approached, and was swelled by new additions to the crowd who now
                  came rushing on towwards the council lodge with a perfect tornado of noise, which
                  might well excuse one, not accustomed to such demonstrations, for supposing that
                  the whole populace had gone raving mad, and were every soul of them dancing and
                  screaming his utmost in a spirit of individual rivalry.
               Arriving before the door, the crowd opened its ranks and permitted
                     Ungus to enter the council.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE ABDUCTION.
               
                  
                     
                        Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes.
                     
                     —SHAKESPEARE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           His rage,
                           
                           The deep working of a soul unmixed
                           With aught of pity, where its wrath had fixed.
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               THE reader has, no doubt, already determined in his own mind to whom the murder
                  and abduction mentioned in the last chapter is to be ascribed; but it is for us to
                  lay bare the circumstances which induced the act, ere we follow the perpetrator
                  and his victim.
               We have seen that Wawpoosa, after his long absence in pursuit of Bramley and
                  Ungus, discovered the lovers on the river shore, and ascertained at once, from
                  their conversation, how matters stood between them. This was a chance he had never
                  calculated on, or else it is very little likely that he would have left an
                  affianced bride, whom he felt assured had no great regard for him, unrestrained to
                  the society of a rival; but believing that no young man in the village dared even
                  attempt any interference, especially since the old chief had publicly given his
                  sanction to his union with Winona, he entirely overlooked the white man, and
                  remained perfectly secure in his mind that his mistress was safe.
               This discovery, therefore, not only surprised him, but, operating on a mind
                  already much embarrassed, and rendered reckless by the unsuccessful results of his
                  journey, excited to frenzy all the evil passions which had a home in his breast;
                  and fearing, too, that if not already destroyed in the eyes of the Chippeways, by
                  the return of Ungus, he was, at least, too far committed to make good his footing
                  again, he determined to carry off Winona, and make his future home beyond their
                  reach;—not that he loved Winona: because love, properly speaking, is not an
                  attribute of a brutalized and selfish nature like his, but he had made up his mind
                  to have her; he had the power and would use it, 
                     
                        "His soul, like bark with rudder lost,
                        On passion's changeful tide was toss'd,"
                     
                   and he would bring matters at once to a crisis, even to the exercise of the
                  most desperate means. In this frame of
                  mind, and with this resolve, he therefore lay concealed till night-fall, when he
                  crept forth to reconnoitre the lodge occupied by his victims, (which, it will be
                  remembered, he did with the eyes of Wood upon him,) and then proceeded to perfect
                  arrangements to carry out his plans. How effectual these were, the reader already
                  knows, and it only remains for us to follow on his trail.
               
               All that night, and throughout the next day, Wawpoosa silently urged his prisoners
                  on. His rapid course was directed through numerous lakes and rivers, and over
                  portages and necks of land, that divided the waters or shortened the way, with an
                  unerring certainty that exhibited an intimate knowledge of the country; and was
                  laboriously prosecuted with the untiring perseverance of a fixed determination to
                  accomplish his designs. In this he was ably seconded by Miskow—fit companion in
                  such a job—who spared no effort to quicken their progress, and they did not once
                  stop until their exertions had placed them far beyond the reach of immediate
                  pursuit, upon the left bank of the Dog river, where it empties into Lake St.
                  Ann.
               Winona, pale, but firm—sick at heart, but proud—sat in the middle of the canoe and
                  nursed her little brother, who, lying in her lap, kept his large eyes fixed upon
                  her face, but uttered no sound of either fear or pleasure, and was alike
                  insensible and indifferent to his situation; though equally still and undismayed,
                  the maiden's thoughts wandered back to the homes of her people. She thought of her
                  father, and heard in fancy his manly voice calling on her name; and of her mother,
                  and saw her anguished form bent in sorrow, and weeping her heart away, like
                  Rachael in the wilderness— 
                     "——because her children were not."
                   She thought of Wood, his kindness and affection, his last fond words, and
                  last embrace, and whispered in spirit— 
                     
                        "——every moment
                        I'm from thy sight, the heart within my bosom
                        Moans like a tender infant in its cradle,
                        Whose nurse has left it."
                     
                   In the stern sat the old hag, who, active beyond her years to aid Wawpoosa's
                  efforts, gloated, in the intervals of her exertion, over the possession of her
                  long coveted victims, and grinned in diabolical delight as she feasted her hungry
                  gaze. While Wawpoosa, sitting forward, and intent only upon guiding the canoe and
                  watching the land-marks by the way, spoke not except to whisper a brief command,
                  and looked not at his prisoners more than a passing glance.
               But when at length they reached the lone and distant spot selected as the resting
                  place for the night, and his prisoners were safely landed, he felt himself secure,
                  and abandoning all further anxiety and charge to Miskow, appeared willing to enjoy
                  his repose and exhibit his power at the same time. With a smile of satisfaction on
                  his face, and insolent confidence in his manner, he approached Winona, who was
                  lying on the ground some little distance from the hut where the old woman was
                  busying herself, and attempted to seat himself beside her. But the maiden shrank
                  away, and moved to another place, while Wawpoosa instantly stung to anger,
                  followed and said in a tone of bitter irony:
               
               "The maiden does not seem well pleased that her affianced husband
                  sits so near."
               He was unheeded, however, by the girl, unless perhaps her lips curled in deeper
                  scorn—and after a little silence he returned to the charge.
               "Or perhaps her unexpected journey has fatigued her?"
               "If so," he continued, as she did not speak or even raise her eyes, "the breast of
                  him who loves her shall be her pillow."
               Still the maiden moved not, nor seemed indeed to know she was addressed; but sat
                  leaning over her little brother, like a breathing statue of charity watching the
                  slumbers of infancy.
               "Will the fair Winona," said he presently, softening his tone, "look up, and make
                  Wawpoosa's heart glad with a smile?"
               But she retained her fixed attitude.
               "Will not the maiden open her ears to the voice of him who loves her well?"
               "Does the maiden not know," he inquired, after a short pause, with growing
                  impatience, and raising his voice as he spoke, "that it is he who shall be her
                  husband that speaks?"
               But she remained silent and immovable as before, and Wawpoosa bit his lips to
                  restrain his rage, as he sneeringly remarked:
               "Wawpoosa is too rough, perhaps, for so gentle a bird; and she thinks, no doubt,
                  that a tame white pidgeon is a fitter mate for her than a wild red hawk would
                  be."
               There was a tone of the most insulting bitterness in this last taunt, which was
                  well calculated to provoke a reply; but it failed in its object like the rest, and
                  Wawpoosa, drawing closer still, while passion drove the words hissing through his
                  teeth, said:
               "Does she not know that she is wholly in the red hawk's power?
               "Say," he continued, unable to control his passion longer, and seizing the girl
                  firmly by the arm, he shook her savagely—"Say—is she not afraid?"
               Quick as the startled doe she gained her feet and threw him off, and the roused
                  tigress appeared in her angry glance, as she answered with unmistakable
                  emphasis:
               "No!"
               And there she stood, a noble picture of Dignity rebuking Presumption. Erect in
                  attitude of scorn, her eyes rested on the savage at her feet—her features calm and
                  settled in expression of supreme contempt.
               "No," she said, "Winona knows no fear." 
                     
                        "And underneath that face, like summer's oceans,
                        Its lip as noiseless, and its cheek as clear,
                        Slumbers a whirlwind of the hearts emotions,
                        Love—hatred—pride—hope—sorrow—all, save fear."
                     
                  
               
               It is impossible to say what might have followed on the part of Wawpoosa, now
                  roused to fury by the maiden's fearless disdain, had not another actor appeared
                  upon the scene, who turned the current in a different channel.
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Miskow, advancing from the bushes, and addressing the savage
                  sarcastically. "The red hawk has surely caught a tender bird, but his claws are
                  not strong enough to hold her."
               "Curse the she devil," said he, fiercely, springing to his feet and moving
                  threateningly towards her, "does she care
                  so little for her life that she dares to laugh at a warrior?"
               "Dare!" answered the hag, slowly, and with emphasis, as she drew herself up to her
                  full height, and fixed her gaze upon him. "Dare! The warrior is a
                     fool to ask if Miskow dares. She dares anything."
               For a moment or two they glared upon each other with a look of defiant hate, in
                  which was concentrated all the evil passions of their natures; but the wild
                  flashing of her angry eyes was too much even for him, and he quailed before their
                  mad expression, and turned upon his heel, muttering, as he went:
               "If maledictions could sink her now, how deep should she be buried! But she shall
                  suffer, unless Wawpoosa's knife has lost its point, and his hand forgotten its
                  skill."
               Her eyes followed his retreating figure until it was lost to sight, and then,
                  uttering aloud the thoughts that occupied her mind, she spoke contemptuously
                  aloud:
               "Dare! ha, ha, ha! Yes, Miskow dares. His coward breast knows it; his treacherous
                  nature dreads it; and his cold and selfish heart shall know and dread it
                  more."
               She was silent for a few minutes, and then added, in a softened tone, though still
                  rough and peremptory, as she turned towards Winona:
               "Come; the girl needs rest and food, and both are ready," and she led the way.
               Taking her little brother in her arms, Winona followed the old woman to the hut,
                  where a cheerful fire and a hot repast was prepared to warm and refresh her, but
                  the girl could eat nothing, and, after attending to the wants of the child, she
                  retired to the furthest corner ner and sat down to commune with her thoughts in
                  silence.
               Poor girl! they were sad enough—thus suddenly torn, she hardly could conjecture
                  why, from her home and her friends, and, worst of all, from the society and
                  protection of her lover, and carried, she knew not whither, at the will and mercy
                  of two beings from whom she could anticipate nothing but wrong, she might well
                  feel sad and anxious, and depressed, too; but, while these emotions stirred within
                  her bosom, her courage was high, and she resolved, if driven to extremes, to show
                  herself worthy of her birth; nor was she hopeless either, for she felt sure that
                  there was one, at least, already in pursuit of her, with, perchance, many a
                  warrior close upon his heels.
               It would be no easy or profitable task to unravel the intricate windings of
                  thought which occupied the old woman as she sat upon the ground at the other end
                  of the hut, her chin resting on her kness, which she elasped with her long skinny
                  arms, and peered through the intervening space fixedly upon the girl. Her
                  countenance, though always stern, was calm, and its expression no longer indicated
                  the presence of those feelings of fierce exulting hate and gratified vindictive
                  passion which she had exhibited before; but seemed to wear upon its wrinkled
                  features, as seen in the fitful light of the blazing fire, alternate marks of
                  admiration and dislike, pity and scorn, sympathy and indifference, which came and
                  went in quick succession, like lights and shadows in an April day. She hated
                  Wawpoosa with all her heart, and despised him for his deep ingratitude, for she
                  well knew how much he was indebted to Nishtagau; and, though the most ardent
                  desire of her soul was to bring
                  destruction on the old chief's head, and scrupled not for the means she used, so
                  only the end was attained, yet she abhorred the instrument and despised the man
                  who could raise his hand against his benefactor. An honest hate and open war she
                  could excuse; but ingratitude and treachery to a friend, even she, the forgotten
                  outcast, whom her people would spit upon if she went among them, was superior to;
                  and she had, therefore, seen with pleasure the angry savage contemptuously defied
                  and well opposed by the dauntless dignity of Winona; and, while she could not help
                  admiring her courage and spirit, she also felt a full sympathy in the maiden's
                  detestation. In that they stood on common ground. It might be, too, that she
                  looked with some pity upon the friendless girl, whom, after all, there was no
                  reason to condemn, except only that she was her father's daughter, and she
                  probably felt compassion for her, in the dreadful fate of becoming the slave of
                  such a man. Or, perhaps, she was touched by her beauty and innocence, while
                  memories of her own young days came up before her mind; but, whatever were the
                  causes which operated within her bosom, certain it is that her deportment towards
                  the girl underwent a complete change, and from that time forth she treated her
                  with a great deal of rough kindness and well-meant attention.
               "Keep up your heart, child," said she, suddenly crossing over and seating herself
                  beside Winona, as if she had been resolving something in her mind and had just
                  come to a conclusion. "He shall do the maiden no harm, if Miskow can prevent
                  it."
               The poor girl looked up with a surprized and puzzled air into the worn countenance
                  of her companion, but there was an expression of such unmistakable sincerity about
                  it, as she repeated the consoling words and drew Winona towards her, that she
                  could not doubt she heard aright, and her warm impulsive heart was instantly
                  reached by the kindness, where harshness would have fallen unheeded, and she fell
                  upon the shoulder of her new found friend, with the trusting confidence of her
                  years, and gave vent to her feelings in a flow of tears.
               "There—that will do," said Miskow, after a few minutes, "now let the maiden keep
                  up her heart—in two days more she will reach her journey's end, and then she will
                  be quite safe. But meantime, do nothing to excite Wawpoosa's suspicions, and let
                  him not know we are friends. Hush—he comes;" and springing across the hut, she
                  resumed her seat as the savage entered.
               We shall now leave them to pursue the rest of their journey alone, the next
                  morning.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE SEARCH
               
                  
                     
                        
                           When any great designs thou do'st intend,
                           Think on the means, the manner, and the end.
                        
                     
                     —DENHAM.
                  
               
               IT is time now that we should trace the steps of young Bramley, and ascertain the
                  reason of his long absence, and why he did not make his appearance with Ungus,
                  when the latter returned to the village; for which purpose pose we shall have to go back in our story, some
                  weeks earlier than the time referred to in the last chapter.
               After parting with Wood, Ungus and Bramley left the village, and reached, by a
                  circuitous route, the point on the northern shore of the Michipicoton river, from
                  which the canoe of Miskow had been seen to put forth when approaching Wawpoosa, on
                  the night of his interview with that respectable old lady; and, after a careful
                  examination of the ground, succeeded in finding marks of her steps artfully
                  concealed by leaves that had been laid over them. One by one, however, her
                  foot-prints were uncovered and eagerly followed by the sagacious Ungus, whose
                  quick eye nothing escaped, and whose cunning enabled him to keep upon the trail
                  with unerring certainty. This continued for two or three miles, when the
                  precaution of covering the foot marks had been abandoned as unnecessary, and they
                  were left exposed, so that even the unpracticed Bramley could see their impress
                  stamped in the soft ground over which they traveled, and the pursuers then set
                  forward with fresh spirit, rapidity, and ease.
               "She has been carrying a load upon her shoulders," remarked Ungus, to his
                  companion, in a whisper.
               "What makes you think so?" he inquired.
               "Because the tread is unsteady and unequal. Some times the pressure is on one
                  side, and sometimes on the other of the foot;—the steps are irregular in length,
                  at one time placed immediately before each other, and again are wide apart like
                  one who totters, while the heel in all is sunk deeper than would be the case if
                  she walked unencumbered."
               "Upon my word, I should never have thought of observing all these little
                  signs."
               "The Great Spirit teaches his creatures according to their necessities," quietly
                  observed the Indian.
               "So it would seem; but what, I wonder, could she have been carrying so far, which
                  was so heavy?"
               "Her canoe," said, the other; "and there," he continued, pointing to a derangement
                  of the old leaves upon the ground, which probably no eye but his own would have
                  observed at all, "there is where she has stood it up against the tree while she
                  rested herself, and there is where she sat."
               "With such keen senses as your's, Ungus, it will be very strange if we do not
                  overtake her."
               The Indian shrugged his shoulders, but made no reply.
               And so they continued on, until towards evening they reached the Dog river, and
                  encamped for the night, having performed but a few miles of their journey, for
                  their advance was necessarily slow, owing to the trouble in discovering and
                  keeping on the first part of the track.
               On the following morning, as the mists of night were dissolving before the rays of
                  the rising sun, and the green hills resting in the distance were gradually
                  unveiled, they embarked and urged their canoe silently along the northern shore of
                  the river. Their passage was rapid, but the keen eyes of Ungus, watchful for
                  signs, narrowly scanned every appearance on either hand, as he plied his vigorous
                  paddle and drove the little vessel on. The morning was beautiful, and presently, a
                  gentle breeze coming from the west tempered the growing heat, and brought with its
                  freshness the music of a thousand joyous songs from as many plumaged aged minstrels who sang their glad
                  matins in the woods, and made the voyage happier.
               The scenery, too, was varied as a panorama: at one time the river wound its
                  crooked way through banks whose wooded slopes rose gently to the distant hills;
                  again, it meandered through meadows rich in high grown grass, waving with the
                  breeze that came and went; and still again, it forced itself boisterously between
                  lofty mountains, which contracted, for a while, its channel within their rocky
                  walls, only to let it loose again beyond their range, where the glad stream, as if
                  in glory of its new liberty, spread its bright waters to the dimensions of a lake,
                  and washing the many islands in its way, flowed on for miles and miles, until,
                  done with ambition, it gradually returned to its more modest shape, and became
                  again a narrow stream.
               A wholesome moral might be drawn here, and applied with force to every day affairs
                  which pass around us; but we are not disposed to be censorious, and so we'll leave
                  it with the hint, for the reader to stay behind and work it out, or follow on with
                  us, at his pleasure.
               For three whole days they continued their voyage, without discovering the least
                  sign of the party they were in pursuit of, until they reached lake St. Ann, where
                  they found the landing place and hut, which, a few weeks later, was to be occupied
                  by Winona and her captors, as narrated in the last chapter. The point was probably
                  a general resting place, for the shantee or shed (for it was no more, being
                  entirely open in front,) was old, and had been much used but; there was no sign to
                  denote in which direction any of its former occupants had departed.
               Here they encamped for the night, and soon after their meal was over, Bramley,
                  who, contrary to his want, had spoken little, took his way to the shore alone,
                  where, sitting down upon a rock, he surveyed the peaceful scene that lay before
                  him, and gave himself up to the enjoyment of his own thoughts. He was in that
                  peculiar frame of mind that sometimes makes us feel oppressed, we know not why: a
                  mood that is not gloomy, for it brings a pleasant calmness to the heart—a sweet
                  stillness to the spirits—nor is it sad, though in sympathy with solitude, but is a
                  tenderness that stirs within us hand in hand with our softest memories.
               The scene was one of quiet beauty well suited to his feelings and his train of
                  thought. One of those brilliant nights so frequent in the north, when the moon,
                  sailing in splendor through a cloudless sky, showed the landscape far and near in
                  a silver light that almost equals day; the water was calm, and mirrored the woods
                  that lined the silent shores and islands; and no sound woke the echoes on the
                  hills, for even the katydid hushed her shrill voice, and looked upon the lovely
                  scene.
               And there the young man sat, and drank deep draughts of nature's inspiring beauty,
                  from the abundant feast before him; he thought, too, of his distant home, and of
                  the loved ones he had left behind—he thought of one sweet face that was dear to
                  his heart—his lips trembled, his bosom heaved, his very soul was elevated, and he
                  burst forth and sang, in a low sweet tenor voice, to a simple air, the following
                  extempore verses:
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           MOONLIGHT.
                           
                              'Tis dancing on the river,
                              'Tis shining on the hill,
                              And where the ash-boughs quiver
                              And the perfumed rose sleeps still;
                              Ah! loved and distant one, when last
                              I looked upon thy brow,
                              'Twas such another moonlight
                              As this that's round me now.
                           
                           
                              Its fairy beams are given
                              To rock, and wave, and shore,—
                              'Tis making even Heaven
                              Look lovelier than before,
                              'Tis gleaming o'er the water's breast,
                              O'er forest, crag and brae,
                              'Tis glancing in the wild bird's nest,
                              And makes him think 'tis day.
                           
                           
                              It flings its snowy whiteness
                              O'er the green earth like a veil,
                              'Tis turning with its brightness
                              The star lights dim and pale,
                              'Tis lightning up the mountain
                              'Tis silvering the sea,
                              But, lov'd one, lone and sad I turn
                              To weep and think of thee.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The song ceased—the sounds died gently away, and the singer bowed his head—his
                  voice had trembled at the last words: 
                     
                        "But lov'd one, lone and sad I turn
                        To weep and think of thee;"
                     
                   for his heart was full, and he buried his face in his hands. When he looked
                  up again, Ungus stood before him.
               "The pale face is sad," said the Indian, in a tone of much sympathy.
               "But not unhappy, Ungus," answered the other, rising. "However, I am myself now,"
                  he added, with animation. "Come, let us return to the lodge and discuss the plans
                  for to-morrow."
               The next morning they departed and turned their canoe westward, intending to
                  paddle slowly round the lake, and examine its silent shores, until they came to
                  some token which they might pursue. This they did, and towards the afternoon were
                  induced on shore near the western extremity of the lake, by fancied indications of
                  what they sought; but, soon discovering their error, they returned to the beach
                  with the intention of re-embarking, and proceeding to an island near by, there to
                  encamp for the night. Ungus was in advance, and, before launching his canoe,
                  looked with characteristic caution round the lake, from the concealment in which
                  he stood. He quickly, however, started back, and crouched among the bushes in
                  which his canoe was fortunately well hidden, and addressing Bramley in a low
                  whisper, said:
               "Down, down."
               "Bless my soul," said the young man, looking about him in surprise, "what is the
                  matter?"
               "There he is," answered the Indian.
               "There is who, and where? I do not see any one."
               "Humph," said the other, with some contempt in his manner, look on the point of
                  yonder little island—does not the pale-face see a man drawing his canoe up into
                  the woods?
               "Yes, yes, I see him now. But who can he be?"
               "Wawpoosa," laconically replied the other.
               "Is it possible—why, what is to be done now?"
               "Stay here and watch him well till he goes. He has taken his position on that point, which commands a
                  view of the whole lake, to watch for Ungus and the white man, whom he knows are
                  somewhere near at hand, and there he will remain perhaps for days, and look in
                  vain for those who have their eyes on him. Ha! ha! ha!" he laughed, quietly "'tis
                  like the brown martin waiting for the squirrel, who knows he is without."
               "A very pleasant prospect, truly; but it has this advantage, that in all
                  probability, when he leaves, he will lead us direct to the point we are seeking,
                  and so shorten our labors."
               "It is true," answered the Indian; and they both relapsed into silence.
               Ungus was right, in conjecturing that Wawpoosa was in pursuit; for as soon as the
                  latter heard that Ungus and Bramley had secretly departed from the village, his
                  guilty fears were roused; and remembering that Miskow had smelt the white man when
                  she landed, and that he had seen him return to his lodge after the interview on
                  that night, he became restless and uneasy, and proceeded to the shore to examine
                  for traces, where he soon found the marks of the young man's person on the ground
                  where he had lain concealed, and his footsteps thence to the lodge; but when he
                  crossed the river, and found the indisputable evidence of the business they were
                  on, he felt convinced that he was discovered, and determined at once to follow and
                  silence them both forever. He well knew and feared the intelligence, cunning and
                  indefatigable disposition of Ungus, who, he was also aware, had never been very
                  friendly towards him, and ever since the disgrace of Pilawah, had hated him with
                  all his heart for the wrongs and misery he had then occasioned; and who would now
                  gladly seize the opportunity to retaliate upon him by showing his treachery to the
                  Chippeways. Full, therefore, of his purpose to leave nothing to chance, the
                  desperate savage, relying on his better knowledge of the country, started in
                  expectation of heading them off, and urged, with cautious speed, his way towards
                  the point at which we left him, there to await their coming; but the others,
                  having nearly two days start, reached, as we have seen, their concealment first,
                  and were thus fortunately enabled to defeat this part of his plan, and there, for
                  a period of twenty days, they respectively continued; Wawpoosa anxiously looking
                  for the arrival of Bramley and Ungus, and they for a movement on the part of their
                  enemy; but he kept himself as close as they, nor, until near the end of the last
                  day, gave the slightest indication of his presence there.
               "He will go, to-night," said Ungus, as he left the shore and walked through the
                  woods towards their little wigwaum behind the rocks; "he has lost the scent, and
                  will go."
               "Why do you think so?"
               "Because, without fear of being seen by any one near at hand, he has climbed into
                  the top of the tall pine tree, to look to a distance round the country."
               "I am afraid, then, if he leaves at night, we shall in our turn lose the
                  scent."
               "No! Ungus will follow him."
               And in fact, a little while after, when it was quite dark, he propared to carry
                  his plan into effect.
               "What are you going to do?" inquired Bramley, observing that his companion had
                  undressed himself.
               "Swim," was the short reply.
               
               "What, are you going to swim to the island, and thence follow Wawpoosa in the same
                  way when he leaves?"
               "Yes—but let the young man stay here, and Ungus will return before the
                  morning."
               He took to the water as he spoke, and, armed only with a long knife, which he held
                  between his teeth, quietly disappeared in the darkness.
               For several hours Bramley kept his lonely watch upon the shore, and anxiously
                  listened for notice of his friend's return. But hour after hour passed in dreary
                  silence, whose oppressive weight was only disturbed by the savage voice of wild
                  beasts prowling near, until the moon arose and drove night's blackness back into
                  the denser woods, and enabled him soon after to distinguish an object swimming
                  from the island towards him, in which he was happy to recognize his long expected
                  friend, Ungus.
               "Well, Ungus," said the young man, as soon as his companion had dressed, "what
                  success?"
               "Good."
               "I am truly glad to hear it; but tell me how it was."
               "Ungus has little to tell: he reached the island, and crept through the bushes
                  until he came to where Wawpoosa sat eating. In a little while he rose, and
                  launching his canoe, paddled off into the eastern bay, where he landed at the foot
                  of the rocky hill—and Ungus then came back."
               "Well, what is to be done now."
               "Ungus will think," he replied; and without further ceremony he rolled himself in
                  a blanket, and speedily fell into a sound and refreshing slumber; an example ample
                  which Bramley, there being no further need to watch, soon after followed.
               When the young man awoke, it was late in the morning; and he found, to his
                  surprise, that Ungus was gone, without leaving any indication of his object or
                  direction; but wisely concluding to wait his return, he sat himself down with such
                  patience as he could summon to his aid, and mused like the Adrian on his curious
                  fortune. In a couple of hours, however, Ungus hastily emerged from the woods
                  behind, and, without a word of explanation, hurried his surprised friend into the
                  canoe, and paddled with all speed towards the eastern end of the lake, where they
                  landed; and having concealed their little vessel, began a toilsome ascent of the
                  steep and ragged mountain.
               They had not climbed many rods, when they came upon a beaten pathway leading round
                  the dangerous slope, and gladly turning into this, advanced with comparative ease
                  and rapidity upon the fresh and unmistakable footsteps of Wawpoosa. He had not,
                  however continued long in it, but had struck off in a more direct course towards
                  the summit, and they also turned from the path and followed him, but with extreme
                  caution; for, suspicious and wary as he was, he might yet be concealed and lying
                  in wait for them at any of the many twists and turns which he had taken round
                  rocks and trees in his ascent. But they proceeded, uninterruptedly, through a
                  stunted forest of pine and fir, to a ledge of rocks which rose abruptly above
                  their heads, where the trail diverged to the right, and continued along the base
                  of the cliff, until it led them to the foot of a large tree, at which point all
                  traces of it were lost. In vain they raked the fallen leaves aside, and carefully
                     examined ined the ground in every
                  direction, until, becoming convinced that it did not extend beyond the tree, their
                  attention was given to an examination of its trunk; but nothing peculiar was
                  visible, except a slight mark upon one of the limbs, which looked as if a piece of
                  bark had been chipped off.
               Unimportant as this appeared, it determined the cunning Indian, who climbed the
                  tree until he reached the branch which extended over the ledge, where he at once
                  discovered signs of the lost track. Motioning silence and beckoning Bramley to
                  follow, he ran along the limb and dropped gently upon the rock, and being
                  presently joined by the young man, resumed the trail, which now led over an almost
                  barren waste.
               The ground, still ascending, was rocky and uneven, affording a scanty subsistence
                  to the few stunted red oak and hemlock trees which held their footing in its
                  crevices; but even these signs of vegetation grew fewer, until, in the course of
                  an hour, the travellers reached the naked summit of the mountain, and turned to
                  survey the scene.
               In all the vast leagues and magnificent extent of country that fell within the
                  range of view from this elevated position, not one sign of human habitation
                  greeted the eye, but all was solitude, 
                     
                        "Amid the ancient forests of a land,
                        Wild, gloomy, vast, magnificently grand,"
                     
                   and the young man gazed in silence upon the impressive scene. Beneath, in
                  every direction, lay a boundless sea of foliage waving in the wind, as far as the
                  eye could reach, broken only by some small lake resting in its midst, like an
                  island of water in the ocean of land—while far, far to the south,
                     "Superior" spread its broad expanse panse along the base of the
                  Porcupine mountains, which, reposing in sullen grandeur in the distance, made the
                  fitting background of such a picture.
               "Look, look, Ungus," exclaimed Bramley, suddenly, "do you see the smoke curling up
                  from the trees a way off to the right."
               "Yes."
               "What do you think of it?"
               "It is a decoy fire."
               "And what is that?"
               "Ungus made that fire this morning, to draw Wawpoosa off another way—he no doubt
                  has seen it before this time, and is now traveling towards it."
               "Upon my word Ungus, you are a cunning fellow—and that then is the reason you were
                  gone so long this morning into the woods."
               "Down, down," said the other, without replying, and quickly crouching behind a
                  rock as he spoke, "there he is."
               "No! where?" inquired the excited Bramley.
               "Look on the barren summit of the hill, just to the west of yonder peak."
               "Yes, I see him now, surely enough—he is about two miles off, and traveling down
                  the mountain towards your smoke fire, as fast as he can go. That is glorious," he
                  continued, laughing in high glee, "you are a clever fellow, Ungus."
               "The hunter," answered the Indian, "is good according to his success. Wawpoosa
                  will discover his error before the sun goes down, and loose no time in retracing
                  his steps."
               "Let us away then," said Bramley, "and leave him as far behind as possible."
               
               In proceeding, they still followed the direction of the trail, and descended the
                  northern side of the mountain, by a gentle slope of about two miles, through a
                  noble forest of maples, and over a soft and yielding turf, without a rock to
                  impede their progress, and at last found themselves near the edge of a small
                  triangular area, in the bottom of a valley in the mountain.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE DISCOVERY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Mid these wild scenes, enchantment waves her hand,
                           To change the face of the mysterious land;
                           Till the bewildering scenes around us, seem
                           The vain productions of a feverish dream.
                        
                     
                     ASTOLPHO, A ROMANCE.
                  
               
               THE place they now found themselves in, was a deep secluded dell, whose sides,
                  except on the north, rose by an easy slope to the mountain top; but on that side
                  it made an abrupt ascent to the height of perhaps two hundred feet, presenting a
                  bold, ragged and angular face of hard black rock, in front of which was an open
                  space of perhaps an acre in extent.
               Stealthily emerging from the cover of the trees, they discovered a large cavity in
                  the rock, stretching its black jaws, and revealing only the darkness within, near
                  the entrance to which were several stones set one upon another, in the form of a
                  rude fire-place, with ashes and charred remains of wood about it, but no other
                  signs of habitation were perceptible.
               With flaming torches made from the bark of the birch tree, they ventured to enter,
                  and proceeded along a wide passage for about sixty feet, until they found
                  themselves within a lofty chamber, a hundred feet or more in diameter, in the
                  centre of which lay a huge pyramidal heap of fragmentary works, the debris of the
                  lofty vault above. The roof was supported by immence pillars of calcareous spar,
                  and the walls were covered with stalactites of brilliant whiteness, in every
                  conceivable form, and of every size, and age, from the nascent protubearance
                  swelling on the walls above, and the mamillary bubble just beginning to rise from
                  below, to the full grown pillar—the perfect union of the stalactite and
                  stalagmite. Here were superb columns, fluted and plain, with pedestals and
                  capitals, forming corridors in every architectural order; furnished with urns and
                  vases of elaborate and diversified pattern and snowy delicacy; curtains fell in
                  festoons from royal arches, or hung suspended over figures sitting on marble
                  thrones, while churches, palaces and monuments of purest alabaster reared their
                  pigmy fronts in ever varying style, interspersed with wild grottoes and romantic
                  dells, in every form the fancy could depict; and all these, reflecting from their
                  myriad angles the rays from the blazing torches, made the whole scene one of fairy
                  magnificence and wonder.
               Passing through this curious chamber, they reached an outlet at the further end,
                  so low, however, that they stooped to enter, and creeping on their hands and feet
                  for a few yards, presently emerged into another room, much smaller than the first,
                  with frosted walls that looked as if they had been freshly stuccoed with diamonds;
                  and thence through many glassy halls—winding ing passages and chambers of diversified
                  dimensions, for nearly a mile, until they entered a large low vaulted room, much
                  encumbered with large masses of broken rock, fallen from the roof, and felt the
                  warmer current of the outside air rushing in upon them, from another valley or
                  dell in the mountain, similar to that at which they had first entered the cave;
                  they advanced towards the upper extremity, where, however, their further progress
                  was checked by the sound of voices from the outer apartment, and they lay still
                  and listened.
               "Come, stir thee, girl, and bruise the corn; it is already nearly night, and, if
                  Miskow judges rightly, Wawpoosa will be here before the moon rises."
               "The Great Spirit forbid it!" fervently answered a sweet voice, at whose tones
                  Ungus started, and raising himself, crept forward to an angle and peered
                  cautiously down upon the speakers.
               Near a hugh fire, which blazed in the centre of the high vaulted chamber, and
                  threw its red glare upon the blackened walls, sat the old hag Miskow, her knees
                  clasped tightly in her skinny arms, on which she rested her chin and regarded with
                  some appearance of interest a young and beautiful Indian girl, who, sitting before
                  her, and in obedience to her command, was busy breaking corn in a trencher. The
                  maid was slight and graceful in her figure, but her face looked sad and worn, and
                  there was none of that sprightliness in her manner which belongs to persons of her
                  age; and she slowly and laboriously raised the pounder as if the task was hard,
                  and her energies already exausted.
               "Will good Miskow let the poor maiden hide away if he comes?" said she,
                  pleadingly, looking up and pausing in her work.
               But the other made no reply, and after waiting in anxious expectation for a little
                  while, the disappointed girl resignedly went on with her employment more wearily
                  than before. After a few minutes, she again looked up, and finding her companion's
                  eyes fixed upon her with an expression of sympathy, she took courage to repeat her
                  question:
               "Mother will let the maiden hide away?"
               "No," answered the other, rising to her feet and advancing towards the door; "it
                  must not be. Miskow can use Wawpoosa for important ends just now, and the girl is
                  part of her plan. Let her fear nothing, however, for he shall do her no harm; but
                  he must be humored, now, and she shall remain and do what she can to please him."
                  Saying which, she left the cave and passed into the darkness without, leaving the
                  dejected girl the sole occupant of the place.
               Softly, Ungus now raised himself in the aperture in which he lay concealed, and
                  detaching a piece of stone from the wall, threw it with gentle force into the
                  maiden's lap, who started to her feet and looked, with half terrified, half
                  curious surprise, upon the intruder. With a gesture he commanded silence, and
                  beckoned her to approach.
               "Hush," said he, "'tis Ungus speaks. Be noisless and draw near."
               After a moment's hesitation, as if to assure herself that she heard and saw
                  aright, the poor girl bounded forward with an exclamation of joy; and hastily
                  climbing the ragged wall, threw herself into the old man's open arms, and laughed
                  and sobbed convulsively, by turns, for several minutes.
               "Hush! hush!—be still," he continued, soothingly, stroking her check with his rough hand, and looking
                  with almost parental fondness upon her. "Speak, that Ungus may listen to the voice
                  that is music to his heart, but in sounds so low that there will be none for other
                  ears than his. What brought the maiden here?"
               "Wawpoosa."
               "Is she prisoner here?"
               "Yes! and many times she has tried to escape and find her home; but, like the fawn
                  that has lost its dam, she wandered for awhile, she knew not where, and hunters
                  came upon her trail, and she was easily caught."
               "Does Wawpoosa often come?"
               "Yes! with every moon."
               "Is not this in the country of the Algonquins?"
               "Yes."
               "How far are their nearest lodges?"
               "On the other side of the ridge there are several; but a large village stands on
                  Balsam Creek, half a day's journey to the north, where the head chief—away, away,
                  good Ungus," she added, hastily, springing to the floor, as voices were heard
                  approaching from without, "hide, but go not far, and to-morrow the maiden will try
                  to seek her friend."
               She had just resumed her seat, and commenced to pound away at the corn, with a
                  degree of animation which contrasted singularly with her previous lassitude, when
                  Miskow re-entered, followed by three large and stately looking savages, painted in
                  the fiercest style, and attired in becoming fashion, at sight of whom Ungus
                  nervously clutched his rifle, for they were of the hereditary enemies of his
                  people.
               "Go child—go within," said she, addressing the maiden sternly—who, obedient to the
                  command, rose, and with a glance of adieu towards the place where her friend lay
                  concealed, retired to a small inner apartment, whose entrance, being covered by a
                  blanket, closed when she passed, and hid her completely from view.
               "Well," continued the old woman, turning short upon the savages as she seated
                  herself without ceremony near the fire, and speaking in sharp snappish tones,
                  "what now?"
               "The great Miskow's friends have brought her presents," answered the spokesman of
                  the party, without a particle of that fierceness, however, which his appearance
                  betokened, and laying a few skins befere her.
               "Well?" she queried, without looking up.
               "Miskow," continued the savage, thus encouraged, "is wise and powerful, and she is
                  a great medicine, and the spirits obey her."
               "Well?"
               "The Algonquins planted much corn on the plains, and it has grown, but it is poor,
                  and weak, and sick—its leaves are dry, and its roots are thirsty, and there is no
                  water for it to drink."
               "Well?"
               "The people want water for their corn, and have sent the warriors to the good and
                  wise Miskow to ask that she will use her power with the spirits, to make the rain
                  come from the clouds, and fall on the corn fields of the Algonquins."
               "It is good," replied the old woman, "let the people make her very strong, and she
                  will bring much rain.*
                  
               
                  
                  *This is a popular superstition among the Indians. They all believe that
                     their "medicines" or "wise people" have intercourse and influence with
                     spirits: and when, as in the instance narrated, they want rain, they apply
                     to one to whom they impute supernatural powers, and having "made him strong"
                     enough, invoke his aid. He then ostentatiously performs some mummery, and
                     if, in the course of two or three days, rain should happen to fall, he of
                     curse claims and receives all the credit; but if, on the other hand, no rain
                     falls, he excuses himself on the ground that he was "not made strong
                     enough," and the credulous creatures, perfectly satisfied, proceed to repeat
                     the presents.
               
               
               They pointed to the skins, still lying on the ground.
               "Not strong enough," she answered, kicking them disdainfully from her.
               They added more.
               "Not strong enough," she continued, "the warriors must make her very strong."
               And they heaped up the furs before the avaricious old hag until she expressed
                  herself satisfied.
               "It is good," she said at length, "go tell the people they shall have rain to
                  water their cornfields, which shall flourish and yield well." And the deputation
                  retired, perfectly contented that they had succeeded as cheaply as they did.
               "The fools," she muttered contemptuously, rising, as soon as they were gone, to
                  put away the rich pile of furs they had left, "they are but the victims of their
                  own folly, and fools are always so—they would have that which they cannot get, and
                  will pay those well who are bold enough to promise it—cunning need not labor while
                  fools continue to be born."
               And thus in savage, as in civilized life, the designing knave preys on the
                  credulity of his fellow man, and by means of prophetic mummeries, and pretended
                  cassandraic powers, in the one case, and crude ologies, and knocking
                  hocus-pocus-isms in the other, draws an easy subsistence from his ignorance.
                  Ignorance, did we say? yes, that is the expression; for it is only where ignorance
                  exists that such things can be. There is, in human nature, we know, a feeling of
                  reverence for the marvelous—a gaping after things we are not prepared to
                  understand; but it springs from the same cause, and is in fact, an
                     intellectual weakness, precisely in proportion to the credulity in
                  mysterious powers assumed by others. So it is always, where the darkest ignorance
                  prevails, that the blindest belief in supernatural power takes the deepest root.
                  And it has been well remarked, that the more we really do know of
                  those things that can be done, the more skeptical do we become
                     as to those things that cannot.
               
               But to return to our story. As soon as the interview between Miskow and her
                  visitors was over, and the old woman herself had lain down to rest, Ungus and his
                  companion began to think how they might best dispose of themselves for the night.
                  The air was cold where they were, and the rocks were damp; they were in total
                  darkness, for their torches had long since been exhausted, and to find their way
                  back to the point at which they had entered, without their aid, was both
                  impracticable and dangerous, on account of the intricate windings of the passages,
                  and the many deep pits and holes which lay in their course. Less fortunate, too,
                  than Theseus of old, they had no Adriadne to give them a clue of thread, and as
                  certain discovery would attend any attempt to release themselves in the other
                  direction, there seemed no alternative than to remain where they were, and be as
                  comfortable as possible under the circumstances. They had just come to this
                  conclusion, and drawn their blankets about them, when the Indian's quick ear
                  caught the sound of footsteps reverberating along the walls, and in another minute
                     Wawpoosa appeared at the farther end
                  of the chamber, advancing rapidly towards them. He carried a blazing torch in his
                  hand, which sent forth volumes of smoke that struggled in vain to rise against the
                  heavy vapor that filled the place; and the immediate circle in which he moved,
                  seemed like a thick atmosphere of fume and flame that clung as a mantle around
                  him. His countenance, naturally ill-expressioned, and now strongly marked,
                  besides, with disappointment and fatigue, baffled hate and suppressed rage, was
                  more forbidding than ever, and seen in the fitful light which he waved to and fro,
                  and, prowling, as he was, far in the deep, black bowels of the earth, surrounded
                  by such a luminous haze, he might well be taken for an emissary of the infernal
                  sovereign of the region.
               Our friends easily concealed themselves among the many fallen rocks which lay
                  along the walls, and the other, passing unconsciously by, reached the end of the
                  chamber, where, throwing down his torch, he climbed into the aperture they had so
                  recently left, and disappeared in the outer cave.
               "Now for it," said Bramley, triumphantly, possessing himself of the torch, "If Mr.
                  Wawpoosa had been the best friend we had in the world, he could not have done us a
                  greater service at this moment. Come, Ungus, let us lose no time in leaving this
                  dismal hole."
               And, in fact, within half an hour more, having now no fear of being perceived by
                  their enemy, they were comfortably seated before a blazing fire at the southern
                  entrance to the cave, where we will leave them for the present, and return to
                  Miskow and her visitor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE CAPTURE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Now one's the better—then the other best,—
                           Both tugging to be victor, breast to breast.
                        
                     
                     —SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               "THE warrior was expected," said the woman, in a tone that was intended to be
                  cheerful.
               "But is none the more welcome on that score," was the surly rejoinder.
               "He is weary and hungry, no doubt," she continued, without appearing to notice his
                  ill humor, "and needs rest and food."
               "See to it quickly, then, even if it is begrudged."
               She took no heed of the ungracious remark, but busied herself in preparing an
                  ample meal for the hungry savage, who sat meantime before the fire in moody
                  silence, nor once raised his eyes from the spot on which he first had fixed
                  them.
               "There," said the old woman, at length, placing before him a large trencher well
                  filled with scotched bread and roasted fowl, all smoking hot and savor, "eat now,
                  and be strong again."
               Without a word of grace, or the slightest remark, the rude fellow seized upon the
                  viands with the avidity of a starving dog, and greedily devoured them; nor once,
                  while a scrap remained, so much as raised his eyes. As soon as he had finished,
                  however, he turned to his hostess, and in a somewhat softened expression,
                  said:
               "Where is the girl?"
               "She is within, and sleeps."
               
               "It is well. Wawpoosa has need now of stronger and more willing arms than
                  her's—not arms to twine around his neck, but such as are heavy when they reach a
                  foe. Where is Chuphe?"
               "In the lodge beyond the ridge."
               "And Mewah and Negush?"
               "There also."
               "It is good: they will be wanted soon."
               "How so—what does the warrior do now—does he want them near the lodge of
                  Nishtagau?"
               "No—but to drive off the dogs that have scented the she wolf, and now bark before
                  her lair."
               "Ah! is Miskow's retreat discovered then?'
               "If not discovered already, they verge close upon it, for their trail was on the
                  mountain when the sun went down."
               "Did the warrior see it there," she inquired, incredulously.
               "He did," and after giving a brief account of what had occurred since he left the
                  village, he added, "Wawpoosa was crossing the mountain this morning, when, on
                  looking back, he saw smoke rising among the trees, a long way to the west. He
                  turned back and journeyed towards it—but when he came where the fire was, he found
                  it a decoy, so he made haste to reach the mountain again, before night closed in.
                  He did so—and by the last lingering rays of light which hung in the sky, saw the
                  trail up the path from the lake; but he could not trace it far, for darkness came
                  and hid it, and he hurried to the cave."
               "And who," said the old woman, indignantly, as soon as the other had finished his
                  narrative, "who is this that dares intrude on Miskow, and track her steps even
                  into the country of their enemies?" She had risen to her feet as she spoke, and
                  now strode up and down the chamber gesticulating passionately, "who is this?"
               "Ungus and a white man," he answered curtly.
               "Ungus," she slowly repeated, "Ungus—what can he want with Miskow?
                  she never harmed him."
               "And never shall," added the other fiercely, shaking his rifle above his head, "if
                  there be any virtue in this."
               "No, no," she said, stopping short before her companion, "to decoy him off is
                  good—but let not his blood be spilled—Miskow loves him not, and would not have him
                  here; but," she subjoined solemnly, "the hand that speeds a ball to his old heart,
                  shall never raise the gun again, if there be nerve in this right arm to drive a
                  dagger home."
               Wawpoosa smiled grimly, but made no reply, and both were silent for several
                  minutes, and so busied with their thoughts, that they did not perceive the maiden,
                  standing beneath the raised curtain to her chamber's entrance, an eager listener
                  to their conversation.
               "Well," said the savage, at length, rising to his feet, "Wawpoosa will go over the
                  ridge for Chuphe, Mewah and Negush, to be ready to search the mountain in the
                  morning. Look," he added, while adjusting his weapons, "look in the aperture
                  beyond; there is the remains of a trusty torch lying there, which will serve a
                  useful purpose yet, and light the way over the dangerous ridge. Hand it down, good
                  mother, and set it to the fire."
               The old woman, thus requested, and bearing a fire brand with her, climbed the
                  wall, and sought, as the reader will suppose, in vain for the torch he spoke
                     of; there were the ashes and little
                  bits of charcoal where it had been thrown, but not enough to account for its
                  disappearance by consumption, and she looked narrowly along the ground for foot
                  marks, which she presently found, well defined and unmistakable, in a small sandy
                  hollow through which our friends had passed. She then returned.
               "Well," interrogated the savage, impatient of her delay.
               "The dogs the warrior spoke of just now," she answered, "have not only found the
                  wolf's secret lair, but have been within; and failing anything better, have
                  carried off the torch."
               With very little ceremony he snatched the blazing faggot from her hand and sprang
                  into the inner cave, followed by the old woman, who was no sooner out of sight,
                  than the curtain quickly raised again, and the young girl passed with light and
                  speedy steps across the chamber into the open air.
               "Curses light on him, and the pale-faced dog the leads," muttered the furious
                  savage. "Three times they have made a fool of Wawpoosa and baffled him
                  successfully; and no doubt laughed their fill when he passed them in this very
                  cave within reach of his arm—curse them," he added, between his clenched teeth;
                  "but they are caught now, and others shall laugh before the morning. The
                  Algonquins know how to deal with a spy—they love the scalp dance—and these two
                  hounds will serve them well. Ha! who will laugh when the red flames lick their
                  quivering limbs, and their roasting flesh hisses before the scorching fire? yes,
                  they are caught now, beyond the cure of all their cunning."
               The old woman probably divined something of what was passing in the other's mind,
                  for she said sternly, as he left the cave,
               "Remember—he who spills the old man's blood, shall answer with his own."
               Meantime, the young girl, with a degree of energy and strength which nothing short
                  of the peril of her friend could have infused, clambered up the ragged face of the
                  hill, beneath which the cavern lay, and having gained the summit, urged her way
                  swiftly towards the other side, where she rightly enough conjectured Ungus might
                  be found. The ground, however, was extremely broken and dangerous, for it was full
                  of deep chasms and rocky heights, over which she groped her desperate course,
                  unconscious of her jeopardy, and intent only on saving or serving her friend. At
                  length, exhausted and almost fainting, she reached the brink which overlooked the
                  valley where they were, and saw the reflection of the light from their fire, and
                  heard the happy voice of Bramley, carelessly laughing over the adventures of the
                  day, and now, in fancied security, giving reins to the buoyant spirit he had kept
                  in subjection so long. To descend to them, however, she knew was impossible,
                  except by a circuitous and dangerous path along the edge of the cliff, until it
                  merged into the mountains rising to the east and west; for which, she had neither
                  strength or time, and therefore could only endeavour to make her presence known by
                  attracting their attention without. Picking up a stone, she crept close to the
                  brink of the precipice, and threw it over near the mouth of the cave, just within
                  which they sat, and waited the result. The merry tones of the young man's voice
                  were instantly hushed, and the fire
                  extinguished; but she could make out nothing more, and after a few moment's
                  silence she ventured to call:
               "Ungus."
               "Aye, he is here," he answered from below, recognizing her voice, "but cannot
                  reach the maiden, for the rock is steep."
               "She has only come to warn him that he is discovered, and his enemies are, no
                  doubt, already near him. Away, then, good Ungus! lose not a moment in leaving this
                  most dangerous spot."
               But, long before the faithful girl had conveyed her useful warning, Wawpoosa,
                  accompanied by the three savages he had spoken of, were advancing with rapid, but
                  stealthy steps towards the unsuspecting friends, and, in fact, had reached the
                  great crystal chamber much about the time the stone was thrown by the girl.
               Finding who it was, however, that had disturbed them, Bramley, who did not, for an
                  instant, anticipate the nature of her errand, returned into the cave and began to
                  rake the fire together again, singing defiantly aloud, as if to compensate himself
                  for his recent alarm and disturbance: 
                     
                        "Since the sun, and the moon, and the stars agree,
                        There's nothing like fun and jollity,
                        Such opinions we won't be scorning;
                        But here we'll sit as merry as grigs,
                        And here we'll stay, an' it please the pigs,
                        And we won't go home till morning."
                     
                  
               
               He rose to his feet, as he finished the verse, for the purpose of getting more
                  wood, when, at that moment, he was seized from behind, and found himself
                  struggling in the hands of two powerful savages.
               "Look out, Ungus! quick, quick, man—run for the woods!" said he, more mindful of
                  his friend's safety than his own; "here they are! run—they have got me."
               He did not suffer himself to become an easy conquest, however, for, freeing
                  himself by a violent effort, he struck one of his captors a stinging blow, which
                  caused him to stagger backwards and fall heavily over the fire; and then,
                  snatching his long hunting knife from its sheath, he dashed at the other, quick as
                  light, and wounded him badly in the neck: when they grappled, fell together on the
                  ground, and rolled over and over, in desperate conflict. But, fortunately for
                  Bramley, in the brawny arms of the savage, he had all the advantage that the knife
                  afforded him, and contrived by this means, while he inflicted many severe wounds,
                  which bled profusely, to keep the Indian too much engaged in defending himself to
                  get at his own weapons; yet he was still hardly able to cope with his antagonist,
                  or terminate the dreadful contest, for the degree of vigor the one lost in blood,
                  the other did in exhaustion; thus, finding his strength giving out, as he lay
                  panting beneath his bulky foe, he gathered his energies for one last effort, and
                  passing his arms round the latter's body, drove his knife to the hilt through the
                  Indian's heart. But the victory was brief; for, as Bramley tottered to his feet,
                  the other savage advanced and struck him a heavy blow upon the head with a club,
                  which laid him senseless beside the quivering body of the dead man.
               Meanwhile Ungus escaped in the woods, pursued by Wawpoosa and Mewah, and speedily
                  reached the barren summit of the mountain, where he did in a crevice of the rock.
                  The moon had now risen, and was shining too brightly for him to travel with safety
                  over the naked hills, unless he had at least a rifle's range the start of his pursuers; and they, he knew, were
                  close upon his heels; besides, he had no idea of abandoning his friends, so he
                  took his stand as we have stated, at a point which at once concealed himself, and
                  commanded the approach, and there determined to stay, and shoot them one by one as
                  they appeared, for as yet he had no knowledge how many were really on his trail.
                  He had not been long ensconced when he saw them creeping slowly up the rocks
                  towards him, and then raising his rifle, he levelled it with deadly aim at the one
                  in advance which happened to be Mewah, and fired. With a yell of pain and rage,
                  the latter sprang to his feet, for he was shot through the brain, and fell back
                  dead upon Wawpoosa, who, thus finding himself alone and at a disadvantage, hastily
                  retreated.
               During that night and all the next day, Ungus prowled about the mountain with the
                  view of ascertaining the fate of his young friend, but discovering no trace of
                  him, he at last determined to return to the village, and procure a sufficient
                  force to rescue him or avenge his death, and accordingly, on the second night, set
                  forward on his lonely journey.
               After receiving the blow, which felled him, Bramley lay stunned and bleeding until
                  the return of Wawpoosa, when he and Chuphe, the remaining savage, picked him up,
                  and carried him to the cave of Miskow, where a debate immediately ensued as to his
                  disposition. The savages wished to take him at once over the ridge to the lodges
                  of the Algonquins, as their prisoner, to be dealt with as such; but the old woman
                  insisted on his being left where he was; and partly influenced by her threats, and
                  a fear of offending her too highly; and partly from the feeling of awe with which
                  she was regarded garded by Chuphe, who, in common with all the rest of his tribe,
                  was a firm believer in her supernatural attributes, they at length reluctantly
                  consented, and departed without him.
               It was long, however, before the young man came to himself, notwithstanding the
                  care and skill of the old woman, who was unremitting in her endeavors, and
                  administered restoratives, and dressed his wounds with her own hands; but at
                  length he opened his eyes and attempted to speak, which the other sternly forbade,
                  and finding her patient doing well, rose to leave him.
               "Only tell me," said he, feebly, "where is Ungus?"
               "Escaped."
               "Thank God," he ejaculated, and sank back exhausted on his pillow.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE ICKWEE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Nor wist he what to think of that same sight,
                           Nor what to say, nor what to do at all.
                        
                     
                     SPENCER'S FAIRY QUEEN.
                  
               
               THE next morning, within a couple of hours after sun rise, a crowd of savages, led
                  by Wawpoosa, arrived before the cave, and clamorously demanded the surrender of
                  the white man to them. They were extremely noisy, and incited by Chuphe, who was a
                  leading chief among them, became threatening, though none except Wawpoosa,
                  presumed to venture uninvited within the mysterious precincts of the Ickwee's
                  dwelling; she, however ever, took not
                  the slightest notice of them, and they continued for a long time to exercise their
                  lungs in vain, and patience, too, for that matter—the latter quality being the
                  more sorely tried, that they could not even see what was passing
                  within.
               Wawpoosa entered the main cave alone, as we have stated, and finding that Miskow
                  and the maiden were in the inner apartment with the sick man, he threw himself
                  upon a mat before the fire to wait at his ease their coming, for even he durst go
                  no further. It was a full hour, however, before the curtain was raised, and the
                  tall figure of the old woman appeared. She strode haughtily forth, looking calm
                  and resolved. She felt she had a stern emergency to meet, and must cope with rude
                  spirits, roused through the the medium of their prejudices, and that she,
                  therefore, needed all the influence which her attributed powers afforded her, and
                  she determined, besides, to awe them, if possible, by her manner, into a blind
                  submission to her will.
               "Where is Chuphe," she demanded, in her peculiarly sharp and snappish tones, when
                  angry or inclined to be severe.
               "He is without," answered Wawpoosa, surlily.
               "Summon him."
               He did not like the absolute style of her speech, and seemed inclined to debate
                  it, for he hesitated; but she cut the matter short by repeating the command in
                  tones higher and more peevish than before.
               "Summon him."
               With slow and dogged steps he left the cave, and appeared before the hooting crowd
                  without, who hushed their clamors on seeing him, and the deepest silence
                  immediately ensued.
               "Chuphe," said he to the chief, in a loud and peremptory tone, as if to compensate
                  himself for his late subjection to a similar bearing, and motioning with his hand
                  towards the interior, "Come. No, no," he added as several others advanced, "only
                  Chuphe."
               Thus singled out and separated from his followers, the stalwart savage instantly
                  lost his fierce defiant look and threatening tone, and it was clear that he grew
                  tamer as he neared the mysterious presence of the Ickwee, until, by the time he
                  stood before her, his temper had settled into a surly obstinacy, which he
                  determined to maintain throughout, for he remembered how he had been influenced by
                  her, the night before, when, against his own convictions, she had made him consent
                  to leave his prisoner behind him.
               "For what," she inquired, as harshly as she could, when the savage entered, "has
                  the warrior brought this mob?"
               "The white man," he answered, curtly.
               "Do they expect to get him?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, they shall not have him."
               The fellow, rather taken aback by her decisive tone, was at a loss to reply, and
                  awkwardly shifted his weight from one foot to the other several times. There is
                  little doubt that he would have been bold enough, if he had had the countenance of
                  his followers, or in the open air; but thus alone, in a deep cave, lighted only by
                  the fire which blazed in the middle, in the presence of a powerful and dreaded
                  agent of the Spirit World, he was restrained by a strong superstitious feeling,
                  and it was some time before he ventured to speak again.
               "He is a spy, taken within the country of the Algonquins gonquins," he urged, at length, rather diffidently,
                  "and has killed one of their people."
               "Listen," she continued, after a moment's reflection, during which she had rapidly
                  considered the course she should pursue; "let the Ickwee ask a question: When a
                  wounded eagle falls before the warrior's lodge, whose bird is it?"
               "Chuphe's."
               "And who shall have his claws and plume?"
               "Chuphe."
               "But if another claims them, because his arrow brought them down?"
               "He shall not have them."
               "It is good. Suppose, now, another case: What if a stranger, wandering through the
                  land, come to the warrior's lodge, and resting there in peace, was attacked by
                  several of the people, one of whom, to defend himself, he killed, and was captured
                  by the rest, whose prisoner would he be?"
               "Chuphe's."
               "But if the warrior was not present, whose prisoner then would he
                  be?"
               "Still, Chuphe's."
               "Where was this white man found?"
               "In the south cave."
               "One question more: Whose dwelling is this cave?"
               "The Ickwee's."
               "Well, now, how can the warrior come here to demand the custody of the pale-face,
                  when he is the eagle that fell before the Ickwee's door—and the wandering stranger
                  who took shelter in her lodge?"
               But the other could not answer, and she continued:
               "Enough. Now let the warrior go and tell the people what he has heard."
               Without a word of reply, the disappointed savage turned slowly upon his heel and
                  withdrew. He know that the reasoning he had just listened to was sophistical; and,
                  like the contemporaries of the Greek philosophers, cursed its author in his heart,
                  while he could say nothing to refute it; but, awed and confounded for the time
                  being, he motioned silence to his followers, and they all retired together into
                  the forest with a stealthy tread, like people who fear to be seen; a manner
                  strangely in contrast with their noisy consequential coming. Miskow, on the
                  contrary, who had anticipated a stormy debate, in which angry passion would take a
                  prominent part, and had prepared herself accordingly, was well pleased with her
                  easy conquest, and turned to Wawpoosa with less of sterness in her mode, and an
                  air slightly self satisfied, inquiring:
               "What, now, of Ungus?"
               "Twenty warriors," he answered, "have started on his trail."
               "And will not take him, had they twenty more to help them," she subjoined. "No,
                  no; he is a cunning hunter, and is, besides, a Chippeway brave." This she said
                  with some appearance of gratulation, which, no doubt, she felt; for though an
                  outcast of her people, and believing herself, for this reason, privileged to hate
                  or injure them, if she felt so inclined; yet her amor
                     patricæ, a feeling which never wholly dies in an Indian heart, denied
                  the same exemption to another; especially when that other was a man whom she so
                  utterly despised as Wawpoosa—himself a renegade from his people, and, as such
                  alone, justly viewed with suspicion and
                  dislike: and she consequently gave a pointed emphasis to her remarks which was
                  extremely galling to her companion.
               "Once, therefore," she continued, "let Ungus reach the free woods, and all the
                  tribe of Algonquins, with Wawpoosa to lead them, could not find him."
               This taunt stung him to the quick, and roused his chafed passion to wreak
                  immediate vengence on the speaker. He snatched his long knife from its sheath, and
                  advanced a step upon the old woman, who, standing at her full heighth, regarded
                  him with a smile of deep disdain, and proud and confident mien.
               "Put up the weapon," she said, waiving her hand in which she held a rifle, "Miskow
                  heeds as little as she fears it. The warrior's business now is to look to
                  himself—make new friends in a new home—for he will never dwell again in the
                  villages of the Chippeways, he will never be a chief among them, and
                  will never see the face of Winona as his bride."
               This last reproach, which he felt to be full of truth, goaded him, as it was
                  intended, to fury; and he bit his lips, unconscious of the pain, until the blood
                  trickled down upon his breast, as he glared like an angry tiger upon his
                  tormentor.
               "Silence, devil;" he roared, as soon as he could speak at all, "Silence; and be
                  sure that ere the summer moon*
                   has showed her thin face upon the highest hill, Wawpoosa will have built
                   his lodge, and have Winona there."
               
                  
                  *August.
               
               "Ah," she answered with evident satisfaction, "he speaks like a man."
               "And," he continued, without heeding her remark, "ere another sun has risen, and
                  burst the buds now ripening in the woods, he will be on his way to fulfil his
                  word."
               "It is good," she subjoined, "and Miskow will go, too."
               For a minute or more he stood, and fixedly regarded the old woman, as if he would
                  study her motive; but her aspect presented only its usual fathomless immobility,
                  and without a further word, he presently left the cave.
               "Yes," she muttered to herself, looking after his retreating figure, "he will
                  never be a chief among the Chippeways; he must find a new home, and live by
                  sufferance, among a people who already despise his character, fear his treachery,
                  and hate his name. He will walk abroad suspected by day, and watched by night—for
                  he has cursed his own tribe; has betrayed a friend, and he will hardly now find
                  any other than a fool, or one who is ignorant of his precedents, to trust him
                  again. And it is good it should be so. The man who is ungrateful—who will wrong a
                  confiding friend—who will lie—or who will be guilty of deceit, is not fit to live
                  and mingle with the pure and good, the noble and the just. No man is
                     born with qualities for evil like his. No! he has changed his
                  nature—he has fallen into a moral slough, where he became stained with impurities
                  which he could never wash away, and hence, is morally unclean, and should not live
                  among the virtuous. He has sunk, even in his own estimation—he is consciously
                  inferior; and since he cannot reach up his own head, he would therefore drag the
                  rest of mankind down to his level. He feels a spite against them, and from this beginning, the vilest
                  passions, which thence-forth sway him despotically, take their rise—his moral
                  nature grows crooked, and he cannot afterwards be honest. He
                  presently comes to hate his fellow man, and victimizes him for that
                  reason. He has no friend, for such men are selfish, and friendship cannot exist
                  without a generous confidence So he goes about, his motives and acts justly
                  suspected, received with caution, and avoided with care."
               Although we cannot concur, to the full extent, in the severe philosophy of the
                  above reflections, it yet must be admitted they contain much that is truth; nor
                  can we pass them by without remarking on the curiosity of their coming from such a
                  source, which reminds us of Satan rebuking sin; but this is a train of thought by
                  no means unfrequently indulged by even the most depraved: not with feelings of
                  self-reproach, it is true, or even with a desire to be able to reform themselves;
                  for all ideas of change for them have probably long since ceased to cross their
                  minds; but for the novelty of the thing—a sort of castle building—and because of
                  the new pictures it presents to their imaginations. And this will not appear
                  improbable, if we remember that while reason exists, we know what is
                  right, without sometimes possessing the courage to do it; and can
                  even plainly see the error of our beaten ways, without having strength of mind
                  sufficient to enable us to turn from them, "because of the evil that is within
                  us."
               It is probable that Miskow was rather pleased, than otherwise, at the turn affairs
                  had taken, for it served her doubly well, and not only brought, at once, within
                  her react, the desired vengeance for wrongs she had nursed and brooded over for
                  years, but it produced, also, the destruction of Wawpoosa's ambitious hopes—he
                  could never, now, be a chief among the Chippeways—a chief among
                     her people, and this was a source of infinite satisfaction to her;
                  thus she could use him now to work his own downfall, and gratify her two-fold
                  hate, and she determined the opportunity should not be lost. She would follow him
                  up, lest his purpose might flag, or circumstances arise to alter them, and her
                  wishes thus be curtailed or thwarted.
               Wawpoosa, on the other hand, was deeply concerned. It is true, he had looked
                  forward to being made a chief by his adopted people, notwithstanding the suspicion
                  which attached to his name, but this hope of years was now forbidden him, and he
                  sat down alone in the woods to heap useless curses on every one concerned.
               "This white man," he said aloud, "can be easily dispatched, at any convenient
                  time; two warriors shall watch at each end of the cave, and he cannot
                  escape; but Ungus, curse him, he is gone, and, as yonder old hag said, he is
                  cunning and brave; yet," he continued, with an animated expression which betrayed
                  how much he hoped, "Chuphe is swift and brave, and cunning, too; and if he only
                  overtake and slay, or bring him back, all will be well."
               He rose and paced impatiently about, muttering and rubbing his hands hardly
                  together for more than a minute, ere he again spoke audibly, when he added:
               "The old she devil, and the girl, too, for that matter, shall then make
                  acquaintance with this good knife, and Wawpoosa will return to the Chippeways,
                  without a single living witness against him, and be free and happy and great."
               A few hours later, and he was on his way towards the south, accompanied by Miskow, whom he thought
                  would be useful to him, and by rapid traveling and a perfect knowledge of the face
                  of the country, which enabled him to cut across various necks of land and turns in
                  the river, shortened the distance and reached the village nearly a day in advance
                  of Ungus. He believed the latter far behind, though out of the reach of Chuphe and
                  his party, (for he had met them and received their account,) but there was still
                  sufficient doubt on this point, to make him desire to escape observation, and
                  approach with caution; and instead, therefore, of entering the village boldly by
                  the usual passage through the mountain pass, he crossed to the Michipicoton, and
                  landed near the lodge of Nishtagau, where, as we have already seen, he surprised
                  the lovers on the shore, and received a fresh impetus to his passionate and
                  vengeful feelings.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE OBSEQUIES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Lay her i' the earth;—
                           And from her fair and unpolluted flesh,
                           May violets spring!
                        
                     
                     —SHAKESPEARE.
                  
               
               IT will be remembered that the council was in session when Ungus arrived in the
                  village, from his adventurous journey in pursuit of Miskow, of which we have, in
                  the last chapter, briefly narrated the particulars. His story, soon told, was
                  eagerly listened to by the whole assembly, and created, as may be easily supposed,
                  in their already excited mood, a pandemic feeling of the deepest indignation, and
                  impelled them to acts of extravagance and indecorum before the chiefs, that under
                  less galling circumstances, they could not have been brought to commit. They broke
                  up in confusion, and flew to their arms, and with cries of wildest vengeance,
                  mixed with yells of rage, danced madly up and down; and their terrible war-whoops
                  resounding through the heavy air, mingling with the lamentations of the women for
                  the death of Irenene, exhibited a scene of noise and disorder, such as a hamlet in
                  Pluto's dominions might be supposed to present, while his subjects were rehearsing
                  their customary pastimes.
               At length, Nishtagau appeared, and every voice was hushed, while he selected from
                  the hundreds of painted warriors who immediately surrounded him, fifty veteran
                  braves, whom himself would lead; and the scouts, who had again been sent out in
                  search of Wood and the stranger Indian, soon after returning without tidings of
                  either, the whole party, under the guidance of Ungus, departed for the cave, where
                  they justly expected to find the abducted Winona, and the first objects of their
                  vengeance.
               Leaving them, however, to pursue their rapid course over the ground we have
                  already described, we will stay behind for a little while, to note down the
                  subsequent events in the village, which relate to the last sad rites that were
                  performed over the remains of the murdered Irenene.
               No one will deny, who has ever had any intercourse with the Indians, that they
                  universally agree in paying a very marked degree of respect to the remains and memory of their dead. They regard
                  forever as sacred the graves where they lay; and in protecting the hallowed spot
                  from the pollution of a stranger's foot, will freely shed their last blood, and
                  never weary of bearing testimony to the worth and virtues of their deceased
                  friends. To find in the untutored breast of the savage so fine a feeling, which,
                  alas, is not to be boasted by some highly refined white men we wot of, is a
                  circumstance that should be placed conspicuously to their credit in estimating
                  their character, and the place to which they are entitled in the order of
                  humanity. But this is a digression—
               Immediately the noise and bustle consequent on the departure of the Okemaw and his
                  large war party, had, in some degree, subsided; the cries of the women, and their
                  lamentations for the dead, were distinetly heard issuing from every wigwaum; the
                  men who remained behind, hushed their excited yells, and smoked gloomily before
                  their doors; the very children were silent, and laid aside their sports, and the
                  rest of the day passed in thus expressing a general feeling of sorrow for one so
                  well beloved, so beautiful and good, whom all had known, and every one would miss.
                  And though some there were who might have said: 
                     "I did not think to shed a single tear,"
                   they could have added: 
                     
                        "but mine eyes
                        Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
                        Begin to water."
                     
                  
               
               The next day, cold and lowering, was fitly sad in all its parts; heavy clouds hung
                  as a pall above the valley, and obscured the sun; the wind, in sudden gusts, went
                  sighing through the trees like one sorrowing for the lost; the birds hushed their
                  songs to listen for the voice they should hear no more; and every object about
                  wore a gloomy aspect, as if mourning that death lay on her 
                     
                        "Like an untimely frost
                        Upon the sweetest flower of all the field."
                     
                  
               
               At noon, the deceased, dressed for burial in the richest style, with the ornaments
                  she loved the most displayed about her, was placed in a reclining position on an
                  ornamented couch, or litter, of evergreen boughs, profusely strewn with flowers of
                  every hue, and exposed at the door of her cabin; near her head stood her immediate
                  family and relatives, reciting her virtues, and weeping, while all the inhabitants
                  of the village passed in procession and paid their last tributes of respect or
                  affection,—each, according to his means, adorning the body with some trinket,
                  muttering, as he placed the gift, a fervent supplication to the Great Spirit for
                  her future happiness and continued dwelling in the abode of everlasting bliss.
               She looked very beautiful, and 
                     
                        "Fresher than the morning rose
                        When the dew wets its leaves;"
                     
                   her parted lips were red, and just revealed the pearly whiteness of the teeth
                  within; and though her cheeks were something pale, they were not pallid, butshowed
                  the long, dark lashes, that fringed her eyelids, resting on them; her brow was
                  smooth and calm, and her graceful figure, reclining easily upon her mossy couch,
                  she seemed like one in a dreamless sleep so quietly had her virgin spirit taken its flight and left its
                  earthly tenement serene and 
                     
                        "Unstained, and pure
                        As is the lily, or the mountain snow."
                     
                  
               
               As soon as all had passed, six maidens clothed in flowing robes of white, with
                  wreaths of fresh flowers in their hair, advanced and raised the litter; and a long
                  low wail then burst from the female relatives, which swelled and died away, as the
                  girls moved off with the dead, preceded by a young woman bearing an extinguished
                  torch, symbolical of extinct light, and followed in solemn order by all the people
                  to the burial ground. On reaching the spot selected for her final resting place—a
                  large circular opening in the ground roofed over and lined with birch bark,
                  strongly supported by stakes driven in the earth—the corpse was set down beside
                  it, and the whole train formed a circle round and seated themselves, to indulge in
                  silence such reflections as their respective minds should make on a scene so
                  suggestive. An hour passed, and though hundreds were there, not a sound broke the
                  stillness, no one stirred, but all appeared to be in profound meditation and
                  mourning, until, on a signal from the elder chief, the six maidens who had borne
                  the little advanced again, and placed the corpse in the grave, which they
                  immediately covered thickly with earth, and fastened securely down with long
                  strips of ash wood laced across, and driven in at the ends. The girls now produced
                  a young bird, with which they passed round the assembled crowd, receiving
                  whispered tokens for the loved one, and then the feathered messenger, being loaded
                  with kisses and caresses, was loosened over the grave; the maidens chanting the
                  while, in swelling cadence, the following lines:*
                  
                  
                     
                        Away to that land, where our lov a one is keeping
                        A watch for thy coming across the broad plain;
                        'Tis the land of Good Spirits, with happiness teeming;
                        Away, now, away—find our lost one again.
                     
                     
                        And tell her, sweet bird, that our wigwaums are lonely
                        Since she wandered so far, no more to return,—
                        That we sigh for her, weep for her, think of her only,
                        And the fires of love, for her, ever shall burn.
                     
                     
                        Now the song birds are hush'd, and the wild flowers droop;
                        Her old dog lies wailing beside her green grave,
                        Her light canoe's stranded, and will ne'er again shoot
                        Its long crested prow o'er the silvery wave.
                     
                     
                        Then speed upward, speed onward, thy messages bring
                        To the land, where the heaven of Red men shall be;
                        And in Irenene's bosom, there first close thy wing,
                        And tell her the fondness now whisper'd to thee.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The curious ceremony here alluded to, is in accordance with an existing
                     superstition, remarkable for the beauty of its idea. When a maiden dies, her
                     friends imprison a young bird, until it first begins to try its powers of
                     song, and then, loading it with kisses and caresses, they loose its bonds
                     over her grave, in the belief that it will not fold its wings nor close its
                     eyes, until it has flown to the spirit land and delivered its precious
                     burthen of affection to the loved and lost. "It is not unfrequent," says an
                     Indian historian, "to see twenty or thirty birds loosened at once over one
                     grave."
               
               The cadence died gently away upon the distant hills, the ceremonies concluded, and
                  one by one, with solemn steps and heads bowed down, the crowd departed to their
                  respective homes.
               The day was drawing quickly to a close, as Oconee, with heavy heart, returned
                  alone towards her hut, where no companionship but her thoughts, and no other
                     consolation solation than solitude,
                  awaited her; and her steps loitered, as she approached along the grove through the
                  deepening shade, and threatening night had already set in, ere she stood before
                  her door, now but dimly seen in the obscurity, between the trees. Cheerless,
                  indeed, was the aspect,—not even a spark glowed upon the hearth to welcome
                  her,—the very dog was gone, and a sense of utter loneliness crept over her, and
                  she threw herself upon the bench without, and gave way to her natural feelings.
                  Her wretchedness became the scene. The wind came up, at first, in fitful gusts,
                  and moaned among the branches like a creature in pain; and lightening, flashing in
                  vivid sheets through the clouds in the distant sky, displayed, against their
                  blackness, the long ridge of sharp peaks, that topped the Porcupine mountains in
                  front. Heavy drops of rain soon began to fall upon the rustling leaves,
                  admonishing of the furious storm that presently burst above, and drove the
                  shivering; mourner within the shelter of her deserted wigwaum. Here she groped her
                  way to the farther end, and seated herself resignedly upon a mat—the very one on
                  which her children used to lay, and near the place that had drank the life-blood
                  of poor Frenene—and rocking to and fro, she conned her thoughts and listened to
                  the war of elements without—the howling wind, the rolling thunder, and the
                  splashing rain, mingled with the noise of falling trees, and the discordant cries
                  of prowling beasts—until her nervous fancy grew painfully excited, and an
                  undefined sensation of terror—a fear, she knew not of what—for the first time in
                  her life, took possession of her, and she drew closer within the corner, away from
                  the bloody spot, and listened more intently than before. Presently, she felt
                  assured that, during a momentary lull in the storm, she heard the heavy though
                  cautious step of a man moving about the hut, passing freely from, side to side,
                  and feeling about as if in search of some object, and then heard his very
                  breathing, as he groped in the dark within arm's length of her. Who could he be?
                  What could he want? were anxious questions that occupied her now; but she dared
                  not speak or move, for her courage and spirit, by this time, were entirely gone.
                  She was not long in suspense, however. In another minute the flint and steel were
                  at work, and the bright sparks flew upon the punk beneath, which soon began to
                  glow under the lusty breath of the intruder, who very shortly started a bright
                  blaze on the hearth, that lighted up the hut and at once restored the courage of
                  the trembling woman. Starting to her feet, she angrily demanded:
               "Who is it, that comes to disturb the grief of the afflicted?"
               "Only poor Ingin," answered a whining voice, and the individual turning round
                  showed the greasy face of our traveled friend.
               "What should bring Wiewe from his lodge on such a night as this, especially to the
                  abode of wretchedness?" she inquired, in softened tones, as she recognized her
                  visitor.
               "Ingin, he say—Oconee all alone; got nothing to eat—be very sorry. Wiewe go see
                  her—and bring some meat; make her glad—get fire—warm her."
               "Weiwe," she responded, evidently touched by his disinterested sympathy, "is good;
                  and what the great spirit took from his head, was added to his heart to make it
                  big. A big heart should be judged by its motives, a heart that can feel, however,
                  humbly, for the woes of others—a heart
                  whose kindly feelings and generous impulses, prompts to efforts to lighten their
                  griefs or share their burthen—though a stranger's, is a big heart—and even if its
                  acts are sometimes out of place, it is always more worth, than the cold wisdom
                  that takes time to consider for appearances or remarks it in others; and stickles
                  for high proprieties, or ill-naturedly cries 'officious,' Wiewe's heart is
                  big."
               "Ingin knows who got big heart, too," he added; with much animation, pleased by
                  the compliment paid him, and at once restored to his naturally easy confidence.
                  White chief 'got big heart.'"
               "True, and may the great spirit protect him," she ejaculated, fervently. "Ah! the
                  thought is good," she added, suddenly, "Wiewe was seen to come from the white
                  man's lodge the night he disappeared; the Indian was missed from the village, too;
                  where has he been these two days past? does he know anything of the white
                  man?"
               "Hush," answered the other, laying his finger on his lips mysteriously; and then,
                  assuming an air of much importance, drew a mat close beside the old woman, and was
                  soon earnestly engaged with her in a whispered conversation, which we will leave
                  them to pursue alone while we glance at matters in the cave.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE RESOLVES
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh! give me liberty!
                           For were even Paradise my prison,
                           Still I should long to leap the crystal walls
                        
                     
                     —DRYDEN.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Oh! woman wronged, can cherish hate.
                     
                     —WHITTIER.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           On what authority and show of truth,
                           Can cunning sin cover itself withal.
                        
                     
                     —SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               "SWEET Yoesie—Winona's gentle mate, for whom she long has mourned—how little did
                  she think to meet her here."
               "Aye! and the poor prisoner too, who had almost given up hope itself, of ever
                  seeing one of her people again, never expected to receive and share her captivity
                  with one so well beloved."
               "Captivity" interposed the other, "speak not the word, dear girl;
                  'tis worse than daggers to Winona's free heart."
               "Alas, then," said Yoesie, "it will be wounded every day."
               "Yes, if she submits to stay here; but that she will not."
               "What can the maiden do?"
               "Strike for her freedom."
               "It will not avail."
               "Well, Winona will try, at least."
               "The maiden has her own brave spirit, still," said her friend, admiringly, "and
                  loves as much as ever to be like the wild birds in the woods, who fly hither and
                  thither, as their fancy leads."
               
               "And why not," she answered proudly, "since such is her nature. Was she not born
                  and nursed in an atmosphere of absolute freedom; is she not the daughter of
                  Nishtagau, the Okemaw of all the Chippeways? Yes, truly. Why her very
                  childhood knew restraint no more than the birds in the trees, and shall she tamely
                  submit to it now? No! liberty is her very existence, and she shall have it."
               The other quietly shook her head, but made no further reply.
               "The eagle is sometimes caught and caged," continued the first, "but he cannot be
                  kept; he will be free or die."
               "Alas, then," sighed Yoesie, "the noble bird must die, for there is no escape from
                  this, at all events, for the present. Twenty armed warriors watch at each end of
                  the cave, and a hundred more are scattered over the country between this and lake
                  St. Ann."
               "The maiden magnifies the danger by her fears," answered Winona, drawing closer
                  towards the other; and gently taking her hand added, half encouragingly, half
                  reproachfully, "she is like the timid fawn that hears the baying of the
                  hounds."
               "It may be so," she replied meekly, "yet, like the fawn, she has sometimes fled,
                  and tried her powers of speed, but the hounds pursuing on her trail, have always
                  overtaken, and brought her back. How then, shall she escape, when the dogs with
                  keen scent, and expectant vision, are already in advance upon the path, and hide
                  in every bush."
               "Perhaps the maiden is right," said the first, thoughtfully; "but, Winona's
                  resolution is taken," she added, "and she would not pause if the obstacles were
                  doubled —she has now been three days here, and is weary of confinement—her limbs
                  would feel their liberty again, and to night she will try."
               "May the Great Spirit meet the maiden on the way, and conduct her in safety,"
                  fervently ejaculated the other.
               "The spirit of good will always aid those who call upon him, and Winona has
                  prayed, and had a dream. But shall she go alone?"
               "No; Yoesie will go, too."
               It is well, and now listen—when Miskow leaves the cave, which she will do soon,
                  place some provisions, and bark for torches, behind the rocks in the farther wall;
                  and two light guns besides, with plenty of ball and powder; for Winona means to
                  sell her life dearly, if it must be sold at all. "What," she continued sternly, as
                  she observed her companion's cheek slightly blanch, "is the girl coward? Winona
                  cannot lead those who do not dare to follow."
               "No, no," said the other, starting quickly up and seizing her friend by the hand,
                  "Yoesie will go. Hope, though faint and weak—for it was hard to reach the poor
                  prisoner's breast—has come at last, and wakened up her heart and made it firm. Her
                  arm is not strong, but it shall be nerved to strike, and heavily, if need should
                  be."
               The above is part of a long and intimate conversation which took place between the
                  two girls,—the first, by the way, they had enjoyed without restraint,—and occurred
                  in the small inner apartment before described, as screened from the principal
                  chamber, in which latter Bramley comfortably reclined upon a mat and smoked with
                  the most unconcerned air imaginable, apparently in very good humor, and chatting familiarly with
                  Miskow.
               "Yes," said he, "I heard every word that passed between you and Wawpoosa that
                  night."
               "Where was the white fox?" queried his companion.
               "Me? Oh, I was lying concealed in a thicket close to where you landed."
               "Miskow thought a stranger was near; there was a taint in the air."
               "Yes," said the young man, laughing, "I wished at that moment, most sincerely,
                  that you had been born without a nose, or else had been blessed with only a
                  reasonable power of smelling. But Wawpoosa came bravely to the rescue, though he
                  little imagined the service he did."
               "It would not gratify him much to know it now."
               "No, indeed,—I agree with you there,—it would quite spoil his amiability for a
                  long time. But, Miskow, there is one thing in this connection which I wish to ask
                  you. I have been on the eve, several times, of making the inquiry, and something
                  or another has as often prevented my doing so. It is a pretty plump question, I
                  know, but nevertheless, I feel constrained to ask it, and here it is. Why is it
                  that you, who are a Chippeway, should hate so violently the chief of your people,
                  and voluntarily exile yourself among their hereditary enemies?"
               The old woman long and fixedly looked into the frank and manly face of the
                  speaker, as if considering her answer; but she made none, and presently Bramley
                  spoke again.
               "Why do you entertain so pitiless a feeling against Nishtagau?"
               The mention of the name seemed to rouse her, for she started to her feet as the
                  young man finished his inquiry, and paced fretfully about for some minutes before
                  she resumed her seat opposite her companion.
               "Miskow will answer," she said, "for she feels that the time is drawing near for
                  her to sing her death song. Let the pale face listen, and then say whether she has
                  reason to hate Nishtagau or not. The snows of twelve long winters," she began,
                  "have fallen and melted away, since Miskow dwelt among her people. She had been
                  very happy, and when she was young, her name was called Melominie, because she was
                  fair and graceful. In those days, the chiefs and braves, and Nishtagau, too, came
                  often to her lodge, and brought her many presents; but she loved the young warrior
                  Neweh; he was tall and strong, and handsome, and his words were like the singing
                  of birds in her ears; he was a great hunter, and she loved him and became his
                  bride. Her husband loved her very much, and when the next summer was come, the
                  Great Spirit gave her a daughter, and she was very happy indeed. But a snake was
                  in her path, which she did not see, and could not avoid—Nishtagau often came to
                  her lodge or watched for her in the woods, and whispered sweet words in her ears.
                  But she feared to rebuke them as she should, and only laughed or pretended not to
                  hear, and when another summer was come, he grew bolder and spoke plainer, and
                  little by little, having gained her attention, obtained her confidence and then
                  her love.
               "And so it is—a woman who tolerates a freedom of manner or speech, in her
                  presence, subjects herself to the greater chance of being approached with
                  insolence—it is an indirect attack upon her modesty and virtue, which, if she do
                  not rebuke with such prompt displeasure
                  sure as a proper sense of her own dignity and duty should suggest, she may soon
                  find herself assailed again with more strength and boldness. But when she so far
                  forgets herself as to listen for one moment to the insidious singing of the
                  seducer's tongue, it is easier to do so again, and from thence her downward course
                  is plain and sure.
               "These things, however, Miskow did not know then, and she suffered herself to be
                  ensnared by Nishtagau, and finally seduced from her duty to her husband. Meantime
                  the seasons came and went, but from the very hour of her fall, her happiness was
                  blighted; the reproving spirit within her stole away the smiles she had prepared
                  to greet her husband, blotted out the color from her cheeks, and dimned the
                  brightness from her eyes. She bitterly felt, every hour of the day, the wrong she
                  had committed against a too confiding husband, and the shame she had brought upon
                  his lodge; but, like the fascinated bird, she still fluttered round the destroying
                  fangs, unable to break the charm; the seasons produced no change, and brought no
                  pleasure; the snows of winter could not cool her burning shame; her ears heard not
                  the birds of spring, and her eyes were not glad with the summer flowers, for she
                  was very sorry in her heart.
               "The discovery, inevitable in all such cases, came at last. And when her wronged
                  and angry husband demanded her destroyer's name, she locked the secret in her
                  breast, and would not let it out. No! if she must fall, she would not drag down
                  with her her partner in sin, for she loved him, and shielded his fame to the last,
                  while she still hoped that he would protect her in an hour of such trial, for he
                  was great among the people, and could, by a single command, have saved her; but he
                  spoke it not—he had no pity—feared for his spotless reputation, and
                  calmly saw his victim banished, disgraced from the homes of her friends and her
                  tribe, to live or die alone, as chance might decide, in the wild wide forest,
                  beyond the country of her people. She wandered to the lake St. Ann, and there
                  built a hut, and lived until the third summer came, nor once in all that time
                  beheld a single one of her species, friend or foe, but reigned absolute over the
                  vast solitudes which stretched themselves around her. But one calm day she saw her
                  shadow reflected in the water—grief had done its work, and she was no longer
                  Melominie—her hair was grey, and fell dishevelled beside her shrunken cheeks, and
                  over her bent form; her eyes were sank in their sockets, her shrivelled skin
                  displayed the figure of the bones beneath, and so she knew that she was
                  changed—and from that hour she resolved to live only for revenge. She then took up
                  her residence in this cave, from whence she often makes a journey, to dog the
                  steps of Nishtagua, and wound or kill him where she may, and thus she met
                  Wawpoosa, and finding him a sharp and ready tool to work out a villainy, she
                  enlisted him in her cause, and has used him to advantage ever since."
               "Her tones during this recital, were very different from her wont, and as she
                  progressed, rose and fell in regular cadence, calmed and mellowed to a touching
                  pathos, of which her manner also partook, and rendered her most impressive. Her
                  pauses and gesticulations were eloquence alone, and when she concluded, it was
                  some minutes before her companion could speak, so deeply had he been affected by the style and subject of
                  her narration.
               "Wronged, indeed, you have been," said Bramley, at length, in a voice of much
                  feeling, "and bitterly have you atoned for your sin; but what became of your
                  husband, and your daughter?"
               "The injured man died soon after his wife's prodigious depravity was discovered;
                  but of the child, its wretched mother has no tidings, though an inward feeling
                  tells her that she lives."
               "Why do you not make Wawpoosa institute inquiries?"
               "Many times she has asked him, but he has always said, 'there is none such in the
                  village;' and he is the only one through whom she has had any intercourse with her
                  people."
               "What was the girl's name?" again inquired Bramley.
               "Irenene," she answered.
               "Irenene!" repeated the other, slowly, as if reflecting, "'There is such a maiden
                  in the village," he resumed, after a moment's hesitation, "and now I remember it,
                  she is the adopted daughter of my good friend Ungus, who told me something of her
                  history, together with that of his son Pilawah; she believes herself, however, to
                  be his own child."
               "Good Ungus," said the old woman, presently, breaking the silence which followed
                  Bramley's information, "Did the pale-face see the child?"
               "Yes, I saw her for a few minutes in the lodge of Nishtagau. She is a beautiful
                  flower, but very fragile."
               "Poor girl," said his companion, sighing deeply, "she needed a mother's tender
                  nursing, and pined without out it. Ungus is a widower, too. But did the paleface
                  see her in the lodge of Nishtagau?"
               "Yes! she appeared to be the intimate friend of his daughter, yonder," he replied,
                  pointing to wards Winona.
               "And so they were friends? Miskow's child, the friend of his child,"
                  she repeated slowly.
               "It is perhaps singular," said he, "under the circumstances, but so it seemed to
                  me, and very fond friends, too. I was only one day, however, in the village, and
                  had little opportunity to observe them. Winona herself can tell you, no doubt, all
                  you wish to know."
               "True—Yet, Miskow can ask her nothing now—she often wished, and feared, she knew
                  not why; but since she knows that they were friends, she cannot speak."
               "Why so? I do not understand. I should think that the fact of Winona's being
                  Irenene's friend, was the best reason for your applying to her for information;
                  whose lips," he continued earnestly, "could so eloquently speak her praises as
                  those of a fond friend? She has nursed her head, no doubt, upon her bosom, and
                  kissed her cheek a thousand times; she has drank in her smiles, and received her
                  pure affections; and who then could better tell you of your daughter, than
                  Winona?"
               "None, perhaps; but the pale-face has told the reason why Miskow should not make
                  her inquiries there. It would bring the mother too near her child. 'Tis strange,"
                  she added, in another tone, "that Miskow felt, in spite of herself, a growing
                  sympathy towards the girl, which can only be explained by attributing it to this
                  cause." She paused, and reflected for several minutes utes, and then said in conclusion, as if in answer
                  to her thoughts: "But now, she must avoid her more."
               "If I was to advise at all," said Bramley, catching the latter remark, "I should
                  unhesitatingly say, 'give your better nature a chance;' however, I will myself
                  have a little conversation with Winona on this subject, and should I learn
                  anything of interest to you, will repeat it."
               She made no reply, but, resting her head between her hands, relapsed into a long
                  and silent communion with her own thoughts, from which she at length abruptly rose
                  and left the cave.
               It will be observed that Wawpoosa, for some reasons of his own, had misled the old
                  woman as to the fate of Irenene. He was perfectly well aware of her existence, and
                  saw her often; but uniformly denied all knowledge of her. And he now was of course
                  careful to make no mention of the violence he had committed upon her, which it is
                  perhaps but just to add, in this place, was unpremeditated up to the moment of its
                  commission. He had entered the lodge solely with the intention of carrying off
                  Winona, but happening accidentally to awaken the other, and finding himself
                  discovered, he followed his first impulse and stabbed her as she rose to her feet.
                  He now feared that Winona might make some unfortunate disclosures to the old
                  woman, whom he already felt was less careful than heretofore in disguising her
                  feelings towards him, and he suspected might not intend to deal fairly by him. He
                  was, therefore, doubly anxious to get the girl away, and determined to take
                  immediate steps to accomplish that end, and requite the old woman besides.
                  Accordingly, we find him, about the time of the above conversation between Bramley
                  and Miskow, talking with Chuphe in the woods, and endeavoring to enlist him in his
                  cause.
               "She is a cheat," said he to the latter, into whose thick head he had been for
                  some time trying to force his own convictions respecting the real character and
                  assumed powers of Miskow. "She is a cheat."
               "She is very wise," answered the other, doggedly; for he found himself overmatched
                  and unable to dispute with his more cunning adversary, who had driven him, by
                  force of reasoning, from point to point, and shook his pre-conceived ideas on the
                  subject; yet, he could not be brought to throw off all reverence where he had paid
                  it so long; in fact, he was more confused than convinced, and he determined to
                  make an obstinate stand here. "She is very wise," he replied, decisively, "and
                  knows the virtues of every plant."
               Wawpoosa changed his ground.
               "She is a Chippeway," said he, in a tone likely to ring in consonance with the
                  other's national prejudice against the name.
               "Chuphe knows that," he replied, quietly.
               "Well," urged the other, "is she not, therefore, the natural enemy of the
                  Algonquins?—Yes, truly; and they should be wary how they trust her."
               "For many summers and winters," he answered, "she has dwelt peacefully in the
                  cave, and has harmed none; she is a skillful medicine, and has done much good
                  among the sick."
               "But," continued the first, "shall she be permitted to tarnish the honor of the
                  people, and cheat them of their just vengeance?"
               "No."
               "How is it, then, that she is allowed to retain and nurse a spy of the enemy, who has already killed
                  one of the people?"
               Chuphe shrugged his shoulders, but could make no other reply, for he had not
                  forgotten his first interview with the Ickwee upon this same subject, and,
                  besides, for his own part, he did not care so very much about it. He loved his
                  ease, or, in plain English, was very indolent, and, unless excited, could not be
                  brought to act; he knew, perfectly well, that Bramley could not possibly escape,
                  and he was contented; Wawpoosa, however, was determined to rouse him, and returned
                  to the attack.
               "Miskow," said he, "laughed scornfully at the people, but a little while ago, when
                  Wawpoosa spoke of the white man,—'their warriors are women,' she said, 'and they
                  dare not claim their own.'"
               "Ah," interposed the other, pricking up his ears.
               "And she laughed and said Chuphe was a fool," continued the first.
               "Did she say this?" inquired the savage, his eyes flashing angrily, and his form
                  dilating.
               "Yes! and more too; for she said that all the tribe of Algonquins could not
                  prevent her doing as she pleased. She would free the white man in spite of
                  them."
               Wawpoosa saw that he had gained his point at last, and filled the naked breast
                  before him with a storm of passion, which, though now in powerful subjection,
                  should presently burst upon the object of his hate, with all its fury, and he
                  continued exultingly.
               "Now, this is treason; and the warrior should check it, and crush at one decisive
                  blow the insolent authoress. She is skillful with her tongue, and if allowed to
                  use it, may turn the purpose of the braves; let them strike then, at once, before
                  she can speak, and drag her false heart out, that all the people may see its
                  blackness, and know it is a traitor's."
               "Ugh!" ejaculated his listener, assentingly.
               "It is well," continued the other. "Let the brave Chuphe, with six warriors, meet
                  Wawpoosa here, when the night is half gone. Miskow will be sleeping then, and the
                  rest is easy."
               "Chuphe will come."
               "It is good," said Wawpoosa; "and to-morrow, the warrior shall carry the prisoner
                  to the principal village of the people, where the chiefs may hold council what to
                  do."
               "Chuphe will come," said he again, as he turned away towards his lodge.
               "Now," soliloquized the other, "the work is done—the hawk shall enjoy his
                  prey—Miskow removed, and the girl is easily claimed."
               It was now dusk, and he left the place to go to his wigwaum; but he did not notice
                  a long sharp featured face, peeping at him from behind the bushes, near which he
                  had stood while conversing with his friend Chuphe.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE FLIGHT.
               
                  
                     
                        The wise and active conquer difficulties.
                     
                     —ROWE.
                  
               
               "WHAT are you doing there, girls?" inquired Bramley of Winona and Yoesie, who,
                  soon after Miskow left the cave, began
                  to busy themselves in preparations for their flight,—transporting provisions,
                  furs, and other articles over the south wall through the aperture giving entrance
                  to the interior chambers, "what are you doing?"
               "Hush, hush," they both answered at once, and Winona, approaching him, explained
                  in a few words her intention.
               "By George, you are a spunky lass," said he, starting to his feet and throwing
                  aside the listless air he had indulged before, "and I like you for it; but you
                  have no idea of the dangers and obstacles in the way of your design, or you would
                  probably abandon it. I have myself thought a great deal of attempting an escape,
                  yet, on reflection, considered it impracticable during the present excited and
                  watchful state of the people."
               "Winona is weary of confinement; anything—death itself is preferable; she is
                     resolved and she will go." This was said with an air which at once
                  put an end to any further discussion, on that point, and so he merely
                  answered:
               "Well, if you are determined at all hazards to make an effort, you shall not do so
                  alone or without some countenance, and if need be, help; I will go,
                  too."
               The maidens were grateful, and exchanged a glance in which they expressed how
                  acceptable such an accession would be; but they doubted if it could be—the
                  bandaged head and arm seemed to forbid it, and the younger ventured a timid
                  remonstrance:
               "The pale chief is brave and generous, but he is weak and sick; his heart is big,
                  but his wounds are sore."
               "Oh, nonsense, I am well enough," he answered cheerfully, "and strong as ever, as
                  you shall see, if put to the test, never fear for me," he continued, with
                  characteristic impulsiveness, hastening his own preparations while he spoke, "but
                  just get yourselves ready as fast as you can. Stay Yoesie, do you know where my
                  rifle is?"
               "Yes."
               "That's right, bring it to me, and my powder flask and pouch, and you, Winona,
                  collect together flint and steel and such other odds and ends as may be required,
                  while I roll up these furs."
               Off flew the girls on their several errands, and a very few minutes sufficed to
                  complete them; the one buoyant with the feelings which new born hopes had
                  inspired; and the other pleased besides with the prospect of excitement in which
                  her wild nature might revel.
               "Ah!" said the young man, with the gratified expression of one receiving an old
                  friend, when Yoesie returned with his gun, "give it me, quickly; let me feel its
                  familiar weight again;" and snatching up the richly mounted weapon, hugged it in
                  his arms with feelings of delight that none but the hunter, under such
                  circumstances, can know, for he only learns to love his tried and trusty rifle.
                  "The sweet puss," he continued, "it seems to me she purrs. Ah, puss, I surely gave
                  you up for lost, and felt sorry enough; but happily in my possession, now it will
                  go hard indeed if we part again. Hush! listen," said he, stooping his ear towards
                  the ground, "Come, girls, let us away before we are interrupted. I hear the dog
                  growling at the door, and no doubt, therefore, some one is approaching; and if we
                  should be discovered in such an attempt, we shall certainly be placed under
                  personal restraint, which will
                  effectually put an end to all our hopes." Thus saying, he passed his packs quickly
                  over the rocks, and the party disappeared through the fissure almost at the same
                  moment that Miskow re-entered the cave from the front.
               She was followed by a dwarfish, sinister looking savage, of most repulsive
                  appearance, whose large head, setting awry between his high misshapen shoulders,
                  and seeming as if it did not belong to the crooked body which it surmounted, was
                  ornamented with a profusion of long black hair, from the midst of which peered his
                  small, ugly, round, red face; his arms were long and very muscular, and served
                  admirably to supply the deficiency in his legs, by enabling him, like the baboon
                  to seize and swing himself easily over obstacles that would otherwise be
                  insurmountable.
               For a moment, she looked cautiously round, and finding the way clear, beckoned her
                  companion within, and passing the small chamber on the right, where she supposed
                  Bramley and the two girls to be, she led him into the eastern extremity of the
                  room, and pointed to a dark gap, high up in the wall.
               "There good Macon," said she, "climb into that, and lie close, but be very
                  watchful."
               "For what?"
               "Listen—Wawpoosa has just been plotting with that fool, Chuphe, against the
                  Ickwee, and they have agreed to murder her, and carry off the pale face and the
                  girls this night, when the moon is gone. There are to be six of them come upon
                  this errand; take, therefore, these two rifles, and when the signal is given,
                  shoot the second and fourth—leave the first and third to the Ickwee, who will be
                  in this crevice, beneath."
               "And the other two?"
               "Fool; they will escape before a third trigger can be drawn upon them."
               "And the signal?"
               "Will be the copper snake's hiss. Away now, and be attentive."
               "With one light spring, the dwarf seized the shelving ledge and drew himself up,
                  and skillfully catching the weapons which were thrown to him, crept into the deep
                  shadow, and hid his ungraceful person, while Miskow assuring herself that she had
                  not been observed, turned towards the chamber in which she supposed Bramley and
                  the girls to be, but before reaching the door, she paused in thought, for as much
                  as a minute, and then, with a seemingly sudden purpose, left the cave.
               Coiled up within his concealment, Macon lay and watched, with the untiring
                  perseverance of the martin, waiting for his prey. He was admirably ensconced, and
                  could, without being himself perceived, easily distinguish objects in every part
                  of the large chamber: and there he continued, listening to the almost painful
                  stillness of the place; but he moved not, he was faithful as a dog on the watch,
                  and determined, to any extremity, to do the bidding of Miskow; it is true, he was
                  an Algonquin, but he had no feelings to deter him on that score, and would have
                  shot down one of his people as soon as look at them, if commanded to do so by
                  her—she was all the friend he knew, and the only one who had ever shown him the
                  least kindness; he had been left an orphan at an early age, and weak, deformed,
                  and sickly, he had been kicked, cuffed, and despised by all, and his presence
                  barely tolerated, he had been suffered to pick up his scanty subsistence among the
                  roots of the forest, or the refuse thrown from the lodges of the village lage; yet he continued to live and came
                  to man's estate, but without arms or implements he was unable to procure proper
                  food or clothing, until Miskow, finding him in this condition, furnished him with
                  both, and he became a brave and skillful hunter, entirely devoted to her service;
                  grew rich in cattle and furs, and hated and kept aloof from his people, who were
                  now willing enough to recognize the friend of the gifted Ickwee, and the wealthy
                  proprietor of such great stores.
               He had been perhaps a couple of hours on the watch, when he observed three figures
                  stealthily enter the cave and creep slowly along the walls to the south side,
                  where they rose to their feet and held a whispered colloquy:
               "There is no one within," said one.
               "Hush," answered Wawpoosa, for he was one of the trio, "yes, the pale-faced dog
                  and the two girls are in the little chamber yonder—quick now—behind the rocks,
                  watch well and stir not until the signal, which will be the screeching of the
                  night owl."
               The two then immediately mounted into the aperture through which part of their
                  expected prey had recently passed, and Wawpoosa left the cave as cautiously as he
                  had entered.
               "It is accomplished," said he to Chuphe, who awaited him near by, and escape is
                  now impossible."
               The other made no reply; he was not pleased with the part he was acting; he had
                  had time to reflect on the story which his wily companion had told him in the
                  afternoon, of Miskow's insulting allusions and impracticable threats, and he was
                  strongly impressed with its improbability; with his doubts, much of his habitual
                  reverence for her powers returned—he recalled to mind the entire conversation, and
                  fancied he saw the drift of it, and then many little facts and circumstances
                  transpiring within the past few days, which at the time he had given no particular
                  heed to, recurred now to his mind, and aided him in discovering the real policy of
                  Wawpoosa—in whose hands he now clearly saw he was but a tool—yet his slow
                  intellect had not decided how he should act—he had given his word—his
                  unconditional promise—and he did not know how to go from it or evade its
                  consequences—and very much perplexed, he remained gloomy and silent, and retired
                  to his lodge to cogitate his plans.
               Meantime, the fugitives progressed rapidly and safely through the cavern, until
                  they reached the great crystal chamber, where they halted; and Bramley, having
                  selected a little fortification commanding the several entrances, and seen his
                  companions safely ensconced, left them to keep watch while he proceeded towards
                  the outer air to reconnoitre. His observations soon confirmed his fears, and he
                  returned with the unfavorable intelligence that a considerable number of the enemy
                  were encamped within the mouth of the cave, and along the passage leading to the
                  chamber in which they then stood; and they might therefore consider themselves
                  most effectually imprisoned, at all events, until some change took place in the
                  tactics of those without.
               "But the flight will be discovered by Miskow," said Yoesie, in despair.
               "True," answered Bramley, "but we are in a condition to defy, for a long time, the
                  whole tribe, if they could come against us; for you see they can enter this
                  chamber from either end but one at a time—advance is out of the question without a
                  light, and they will therefore present
                  a sure and easy mark for our rifles, of which we have four in fact, for mine is
                  double barrelled—we have two or three hundred bullets altogether, and as we cannot
                  be seen at all ourselves among this bewildering tracery, and intricate limy
                  formation, I am safe in saying that with our present supply of provisions, we can
                  hold out long enough either to obtain good terms of capitulation, or sell our
                  lives at a terrible cost to our enemies."
               "Ungus may have escaped," said Winona, "and if he has, he will be sure to return
                  with a party of braves strong enough to drive all the people of the Algonquins
                  over the mountains of eternal snow."
               "Of course he will," answered the young man, eager to make the best of their
                  situation, and cheer the timid Yoesie; "of course he will, and I make no doubt
                  that a woodman so skillful as he, has eluded pursuit, and ere this reached the
                  village."
               "Good Ungus," said the poor girl, almost crying for the pleasure the new idea
                  imparted, "then the maidens will be rescued after all, and go back to the homes of
                  their people."
               "To be sure you will," he replied, encouragingly, "keep a stout heart now, and
                  make yourself as comfortable as possible under existing circumstances, and I think
                  it more than probable that all will go well."
               "The white fox is cunning and brave, and his words are pleasant and joyful; and
                  Yoesie's heart grows light in his presence, for he makes her forget danger, and
                  feel hopeful and glad."
               "Upon my word, a very dashing compliment that, Miss Yoesie," he laughingly
                  rejoined, bowing with mock formality, "and all for me; well, apart from its
                  prettiness, and the source from whence it comes, which would make it acceptable,
                  if anything could, it has the merit of sincerity, (a rare novelty by the way among
                  compliments,) and so I shall even accept it, (with proper blushing of course,) and
                  wear it for the sake of the sweet little maiden who gave it. Never mind my
                  nonsense, Yoesie," he continued gaily, kissing her small hand as he observed that
                  she looked anxiously into his face, perplexed and ashamed, for she did not
                  comprehend such courtly phrase, "never mind what I say—it is only my way—come,"
                  said he, stroking her smooth cheek, and singing, 
                     
                        "Smile again, my bonny lassie,
                        Smile again on me."
                     
                   "And now, girls, you had better retire to rest. It must be late night, and
                  you have had a most fatiguing afternoon's work; so take your furs, and go to
                  sleep; you may do so in security, for I will keep a faithful watch the while. Poor
                  girls," he continued, in an undertone, as he noiselessly paced the rampart of his
                  little castle, "they must be weary, body and mind; what tumults of emotion fill
                  their hearts; hopes and fears; doubts and expectations; confidence and trembling;
                  courage and timidity; all pulling different ways, until sleep comes with her
                  visions and drives them out. Poor Yoesie's gentle heart needs her comfort, and I
                  hope she may visit her in her sweetest form." 
                     
                        "Oh! thou best comforter of that sad heart,
                        Whom Fortune's spite assails; come, gentle Sleep,
                        The weary mourner soothe! For well the art
                        Thou knowest, in soft forgetfulness to sleep
                        The eyes which sorrow taught to watch and weep:
                        Let blissful visions now her spirits cheer,
                        
                        Or lull her cares to peace in slumbers deep,
                        Till, from fatigue refresh'd, and anxious fear,
                        Hope, like the morning star, shall once more re-appear."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE ATTEMPT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           The great King of kings
                           Hath in the table of his law commanded
                           That thou shalt do no murder; with thou then
                           Spurn at his edict, and fulfil a man's.
                        
                     
                     —SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               MISKOW had not taken her seat by the fire more than a minute, when a low, hissing
                  sound reached her ear, and she rose and proceeded towards the place of Macon's
                  concealment.
               "Well," she inquired, "what now?"
               "Wawpoosa has been here, and placed two warriors in ambush behind the rocks,
                  yonder—they are there now."
               "Ha!" said she, musingly, "that is to cut off all chance of escape."
               "Yes! no doubt such is his design."
               "Well, never mind," she replied, without betraying the least concern, "they will
                  find the Iekwee fully prepared for them; she never misses her aim, and Macon is a
                  sure marksman."
               So saying, she left him and entered the other chamber, from which she almost
                  instantly emerged again, and looked searchingly around—the reader will easily
                  guess for whom—and then approaching Macon, inquired if he had seen the
                  fugitives.
               "No," was the laconic response.
               "Did Wawpoosa take them with him?"
               "No."
               "Then what can have become of them?"
               "Don't know."
               "Has Macon been sleeping?"
               "No!" he answered, with indignant emphasis, "he never sleeps on his post. If they
                  have left the cave they did so before he came here."
               The woman said nothing more, but after reflecting a few moments, resumed her seat
                  near the fire, where she remained amid the profoundest stillness, conscious that
                  she was often peeped at by her concealed enemies, for a couple of hours, when,
                  deeming it near the time of the projected attack, she heaped up the fire with
                  light, dry wood, which soon blazed brightly up, so as to plainly show every object
                  within the chamber, and would, of course, exhibit the approach of her expected
                  visitors, and then calmly glancing round the place, entered the crevice selected
                  for her own concealment, which, owing to the irregular and angular form of the
                  chamber, could not be perceived by the two behind the rocks of the southern
                  wall.
               "Now," said Wawpoosa, speaking in a whisper to his companions without, "are the
                  braves ready?"
               "No," answered Chuphe, surlily.
               "What is wanting?"
               "Chuphe won't go," said he, doggedly.
               "Won't go!" repeated the other, surprised, and deeply concerned, too; for without
                  the countenance and aid of Chuphe, or some other influential chief among the
                  people, his scheme of vengeance would fall to the ground, as he dared not take the responsibility of
                  the act he meditated upon himself, "Won't go?"
               "No."
               "Has the warrior forgotten his engagement?"
               "No."
               "Then why not fulfil it?"
               "Miskow is a great medicine to the Algonquins; she is their Ickwee; they respect
                  her, and she shall not be harmed."
               "And has the warrior gone back to his old belief in this nonsense?" inquired the
                  other, with as much of a sneer as he thought it well to exhibit.
               "Yes."
               "Did not Wawpoosa expose her to the warrior, and show him the shallow artifice of
                  her tricks, the emptiness of her pretended powers; did he not prove her a liar and
                  a cheat; has he forgotten the words of his friend."
               "Chuphe heard his talk in the morning; it has passed away on the wind, and he
                  hears it no more."
               Wawpoosa restrained his rage as well as he could, but forbore to press the inquiry
                  any further—it was hopeless—and he saw clearly enough that he should only learn in
                  express terms, what he now understood by implication, namely that he was a
                  suspected, if not a detected liar, which would lead at once to an open rupture,
                  and render his own position, and his personal safety precarious indeed, and
                  besides, place the objects of his vengeance further off than ever. He, therefore,
                  wisely concluded, for the present, at least, to abandon all idea of Chuphe's
                  assistance, and appear to humor his new notions, so as to draw him away
                  preparatory to trying what he could do with some other chief.
               Meantime, the other two savages in Chuphe's train, both of whom were ambitious
                  young braves, eager for an opportunity to signalize themselves, and earn the title
                  of warriors, had remained concealed near the entrance to the cave; they had not
                  heard any part of the conversation between him and Wawpoosa, and not supposing for
                  an instant that their chief had abandoned his intention, determined, with the
                  field of so much promise thus open before them, to proceed in the business alone,
                  and so gain to themselves the coveted honors; accordingly, as soon as the two
                  leaders were out of sight and hearing, they advanced stealthily through the
                  passage to the entrance of the main chamber, where they paused and listened for a
                  while, and finding all still, made the preconcerted signal for their two concealed
                  confederates to approach from the southern end. The dusky forms of the latter were
                  soon seen, by the light of the blazing fire, descending the rocks, and the first
                  two again moved unsuspectingly, yet cautiously, forward, close along the base of
                  the dark walls, to meet them.
               Miskow and the dwarf watched narrowly from the obscurity of their shelter every
                  movement of the four invaders, and saw, with feelings of exultation and
                  unrelenting intent, how completely they were in their power; they saw them draw
                  together and hold a brief whispered colloquy, in which they seemed to assign the
                  parts that each should perform, for they pointed towards the little chamber and
                  the several bed-places supposed to be respectively occupied by their anticipated
                  victims, and then they all laid down their rifles, and drawing their long knives,
                  which they held between their teeth, stooped to the ground, and stole forward to
                  execute their bloody purpose.
               
               Miskow waited until they were within a few feet of the small chamber door, and
                  about to spring to their feet, ere she gave the signal, and the low hiss had
                  scarcely passed from her tongue, when the already poised rifles poured out their
                  deadly contents, and the first two, pierced through the brain, rolled over dead
                  upon the spot. The others, instantly erect, paused panic stricken, and stared
                  wildly about them; yet it was only for a moment; and then they turned and dashed
                  away towards the passage; but they had not gained a dozen steps of their retreat,
                  ere they were overtaken by the leaden messengers from the reserved guns of their
                  concealed enemies, and fell within a few yards of their late companions.
               The noise occasioned by the firing quickly brought Wawpoosa to the mouth of the
                  cave, where he signalled in vain, and at length called aloud for his confederates;
                  but the only answer he received was a faint dying struggling cry, from one who was
                  mortally wounded, and the whole truth flashed upon his mind, simultaneously with
                  the thought that Chuphe had played a treacherous part, and had thwarted the scheme
                  by giving a hint, if not fully disclosing to the old woman, what was on foot, thus
                  enabling her to escape the vengeance which was so near, and turn the planned
                  butchery against its author. This seemed to him a proper interpretation of the
                  unfortunate result, when he reflected on the conduct of that warrior, on whom he
                  now heaped the bitterest curses, and vowed a bloody reckoning for his deceit. It
                  is true that he had learned nothing definitely, except that one of his allies was
                  wounded, for he could hear from where he stood, the last gurgles in the throat of
                  the dying man, yet he durst not venture within for further information, as he
                  suspected, and perhaps rightly, too, that a similar fate might be prepared for
                  himself; and he therefore slunk away into the woods to nurse his rage and
                  disappointment, and hatch out new and more comprehensive schemes to satisfy his
                  vindictive spirit.
               "Now, good Macon," said Miskow, stepping from her retreat as unconcernedly as if
                  nothing had happened, and seating herself near the fire, "the fugitives must be
                  pursued, found, and brought back here."
               "Well?" replied the other interrogatively.
               "They cannot have gone that way," she continued, pointing towards the passage,
                  "and therefore no doubt passed through the apperture yonder, and must be in the
                  cave at this moment, for there are many warriors encamped at the southern
                  entrance, whom it would be impossible to pass unperceived."
               "It is so."
               "Very well—Macon shall go and find them."
               "What then?"
               "Bring them back."
               "Ugh," said he, with a shrug of his shoulders, and moving slowly off as he spoke,
                  "there are three of them, and Macon has but two hands."
               "Stay," interrupted the other, who seemed to understand the drift of his remark,
                  "be sure there is no violence done, for should harm come to either of them through
                  any act of Macon's, his miserable life shall answer for it.'
               "Enough" he answered, and snatching a brand from the hearth, quickly disappeared
                  over the wall.
               "Now," she continued muttering as she extended herself upon a pile of furs in one
                  corner, "that coward dog, Wawpoosa, is doubtless prowling without, but will not dare to enter; those carcasses are
                  harmless, and so Miskow may safely take the rest she needs so much. "Ah!" she
                  added, starting again to her feet, as the sharp crack of a distant rifle, followed
                  by a yell of rage and pain, reverberated through the cavern, "surely Macon. has
                  not dared—no, he would not—he must have been discovered and fired upon by the
                  fugitives—and yet he is too cunning to expose himself. What? another, and another"
                  she pursued, in surprise, as the shots were repeated, "there must be something in
                  this which it concerns the Ickwee to know;" and hastily gathering her own weapons,
                  followed after the dwarf, while the sound of distant firing continued to echo
                  along the ragged walls of the passages she traversed in quick succession.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE SURPRISAL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           —Death
                           Grinn'd horribly a ghastly smile, to hear
                           His famine should be fill'd, and bless'd his maw,
                           Destined to that good hour.
                        
                     
                     —MILTON'S PARADISE LOST.
                  
               
               IF the watch in the quiet camp of the Algonquins, on the night in question, had
                  been vigilant of his duty, he might have seen, along the edge of the wood, where
                  the shadows grew deeper as the moon sank down behind the hills, a long line of
                  dusky figures, gradually extending itself until it entirely encompassed the little
                  area that lay before the cave, in the wide, gaping entrance to which forty or
                  fifty painted warriors lay, in all directions, stretched upon their blue and red
                  blankets, sleeping soundly in fancied security, confident that his guard was
                  faithfully kept. But it was not. He did not notice, as he sat before the blazing
                  fire, with his head resting on his hand, and his thoughts turned inward, the
                  approaching foes; he did not see their fierce, though silent gestures; their
                  hundred glaring eyes, and gleaming weapons; not did he know that the dreadful
                  circle was rapidly narrowing around him, until, with one simultaneous yell of
                  savage triumph, they rose as one man, and firing a deadly volley into the devoted
                  camp, rushed forward with drawn tomahawks and knives to complete the carnage of
                  their panic stricken enemies, before they had time to snatch their weapons and
                  gain their feet.
               There were many, however, who, lying farther in, escaped the effects of the first
                  volley and charge, and they made a desperate struggle, with such weapons as they
                  could gather up, to drive back the overwhelming tide, fighting hand to hand like
                  devils born, while they could maintain their stand at all; but their courage was
                  unavailing, and their blows became lighter, as the ground grew slippery with their
                  blood,—one by one they fell, and, the victors still pressing on the few that
                  remained, retreated through the passage towards the crystal chamber, disputing the
                  way, however, inch by inch; but here their further progress was checked, and their
                  confusion completed by the well-directed fire of Bramley, whose trusty rifle sped
                  death or mortal wounds among them, as they entered one by one; and thus, of the whole southern camp of the
                  Algonquins, not one was left, in less than half an hour, to tell its fate or bring
                  a warning to their friends.
               On the other part no lives had been lost, and but few wounds received; for their
                  attack had been so sudden—their first volley so deadly in its effects, and their
                  subsequent charge upon the still recumbent survivors, so impetuous; that they were
                  enabled to come at once to close quarters with their hatchets, and use them with
                  terrible advantage—swinging them furiously right and left, and sinking them
                  deeply, at every blow, in the unprotected heads of their unfortunate enemies. The
                  victory thus complete, and purchased without loss to the victors, enkindled in
                  their breasts the wildest enthusiasm, and they lost no time in securing the
                  coveted trophies of success, round which to dance in rude delight, and grace their
                  barbarian ceremony.
               And now might be seen, by the fitful glare of the camp fires, which blazed
                  brightly in the middle, the conquering braves, stooping over the prostrate bodies
                  of the dead and dying that lay scattered as they fell in every direction about the
                  field of carnage, in the brutal act of mutilating their vanquished foes, for the
                  sake of a piece of flesh, which should afterwards be the evidence of their
                  individual prowess. For this, they turned the yet quivering bodies over with a
                  kick, and twined their nervous fingers in the "scalp locks,"*
                   and kneeling on the naked breasts, tore with savage exultation the bloody
                  scalps from the reeking heads—while the victims, still bleeding from many a gaping
                  wound, lay in ghastly heaps; their upturned faces, 
                     
                        With lips apart
                        And glaring eyeballs fixed,"
                     
                   were blood-stained, and rigid in the last expression of implacable hate with
                  which they died.
               
                  
                  *A tuft of hair which a warrior always suffers to grow for the express
                     purpose of aiding his conqueror to tear off his scalp. To remove this before
                     going to battle, would be a mark of cowardice.
               
               This was the scene upon which Bramley now appeared, followed by the two maidens;
                  and their coming was received by a chorus of yells, that went echoing away over
                  many an acre of those tall woods, and startled the very owls who answered with
                  their shrillest screams. But hastening through the crowd, with the child Weepemaw
                  in his arms, he led his companions towards the chief of the party, who was sitting
                  some distance apart from the rest, conversing so earnestly with an old grey headed
                  warrior, that they did not notice his approach.
               "Nishtagau does not seem elated with his victory," said the latter.
               "He is glad that the Great Spirit has made his young men successful."
               "Then why look so sad? Is not the Okemaw already terribly avenged for the loss of
                  his children?"
               "True, good Ungus; it is not that which hangs the heavy shadow upon his brow; but
                  he now feels anxious concerning his next step."
               "How so," inquired the other; "it seems plain enough to Ungus."
               "This woman," answered the chief, with some hesitancy in his manner, "this
                  Melominie, Nishtagau has no wish to injure, yet she stands in his way."
               The other looked up in surprise, for he could not understand what sympathies the wronged father could
                  have for the authoress of so much pain and injury. "It is true," he reasoned with
                  himself, "she was a Chippe-way; yet, for this very reason, her treachery against
                  the chief of her people, deserved death the more; besides, she had been banished
                  many years before for an infamous crime which rendered her unfit to live among the
                  tribe, on whom, individually and collectively, she thenceforth lost all claim.
                  Why, then, should he hesitate for her." But could the old man have looked into the
                  chieftain's heart at that moment, he would have been more surprised still; he
                  would have seen his proud spirit bowed before a reproving conscience,
                  acknowledging himself by far the less wronged of the two; he would have seen, too,
                  an earnest desire to avoid a meeting with the wretched victim of his unholy
                  passions, and a feeling of regret for this sake, that he had taken the lead of the
                  expedition. Hence it may be inferred that, had he known before who was his enemy
                  besides Wawpoosa, he would not have been one of the party, but he only learned
                  this last fact from Ungus on the way, some time after their hurried departure,
                  and, consequently, his present embarrassment.
               "Ungus can solve the difficulty," he replied, after a few moment's silence.
               "How?"
               "The captives," he continued, "are in the great chamber at the northern extremity
                  of the cave, with Melominie. Now, let Nishtagau surprise and capture all together,
                  and then set the old woman free."
               "That will require a division of forces; and this is far in the country of the
                  enemy."
               "True," answered Ungus, "but it must be done nevertheless—one party must scale the
                  mountain, and enter the cave from the northern entrance, simultaneously with the
                  other, through from here."
               At this moment Bramley advanced with the two girls, and laid the child down before
                  the chief.
               "Here," said he, "are your lost children, whom it affords me no small satisfaction
                  to restore to their father's arms."
               The old man started to his feet; his first natural impulse was to snatch his
                  children, and draw them to his heart; but he instantly checked himself; the
                  momentary glow of pleasure that diffused his features disappeared, and he subsided
                  into his usual cold and passionless mien. They were safe; that was
                  enough for him, and the parent was not permitted to be seen in the stern warrior
                  chief. He acknowledged their presence, and no more, in which, as we know, he did
                  violence to his own feelings, for he was tenderly attached to his children; but
                  his excessive pride would let him go no further then; he would not betray the
                  weakness of parental affection before his braves on the very field of triumph. No!
                  they should see that he was superior to the slightest manifestation of human
                  feeling, and he rose and passed his offspring without a glance; yet, having thus
                  unexpectedly recovered them, he was happy in his heart; it relieved him, too, from
                  his apprehension of meeting Melominie, and he at once determined to retreat into
                  his own country, and leave Wawpoosa and his partner to their fate. Accordingly he
                  dispatched Ungus on the instant to draw off his men, and order them to encamp in
                  the woods on the mountain side, and, as if fearing that a moment might be lost,
                  hastened himself self to repeat his
                  commands, and see them carried into effect.
               There were two pairs of curious eyes, that peeped from behind the rocks, and
                  watched the retreating warriors slowly disappear in the woods, and once when
                  Nishtagau passed within range, a rifle showed its muzzle, but he moved too
                  quickly, and nothing more was seen. In half an hour more the camp was formed, and
                  scouts lay out in every direction, to guard against surprise.
               "Well, my dear good Ungus," said Bramley, as soon as the bustle had somewhat
                  subsided, and he had an opportunity of speaking to his old friend, "I am so glad
                  to see you; give me your honest hand. I felt very sanguine of your escape, the
                  night we parted, for I knew how skillful a woodsman you are. You did not get hurt,
                  I hope—the dogs fired after you—but I trust you were not hit?"
               "No—Ungus was not touched—though he waited sometime about here and on the
                  mountains to watch for, and, if possible, rescue his friend."
               "Ah! that is like you, Ungus,—generous and faithful; you would not leave while a
                  chance remained to help me. They were a little too much for me—but it is all right
                  now, we are together again."
               "Ungus loves his young friend, and is glad to hear his cheery voice, though his
                  heart is heavy to see him wounded and sick."
               "Wounded and sick," repeated Bramley, pleasantly, "why, nonsense, man, thanks to
                  Miskow, who by the way is not half so bad as you believe her to be, I am as strong
                  and well as ever I was. But where is Dick— my friend Dick; did he not come with
                  you to aid my release?"
               "What is the matter, Ungus?" he continued, observing that the old man made no
                  reply; "has anything happened to him—is he ill—tell me, quickly."
               "Ungus knows little, but as far as he can he will tell," and he proceeded to
                  detail the principal facts with which the reader is already acquainted, commencing
                  with the receipt of the warning arrow, and thence down to the time of his
                  departure from the village, as was prevalently supposed, with the stranger
                  Indian.
               "Strange," said Bramley, presently breaking the silence which followed the
                  narrative. "I sincerely trust in Heaven that no harm has befallen him. Oh, Ungus!
                  he was so brave and generous, and so noble and good, to know him was
                  to love him. Poor dear Dick, I hope with all my heart and soul that he is safe and
                  well. But who was this stranger Indian?"
               "Ungus does not know."
               "And so Dick went away with him," he added, musingly.
               "So it is believed. They both disappeared at the same time, and their trail was
                  afterwards found together upon the hills."
               "Humph," he replied, cogitating the matter.
               "He is safe," said Winona, who had been an interested and attentive listener to
                  their conversation. "He is safe," she repeated confidently, and with some
                  appearance of lively gratulation.
               "Why do you think so?" inquired Bramley, turning quickly towards her. "Do you
                     know anything about this stranger?"
               "No—but Winona feels that it is so."
               
               "Yoesie, too," chimed in a sweet little voice, timidly from behind.
               "Well girls," said the young man, in his off-hand way, and with quite an animated
                  expression, as though struck with a new idea, "I do not know exactly why, but hang
                  me if I don't think so, too."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE BATTLE.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *This chapter presents an accurate picture of Indian fighting, and is
                     described, as nearly as possible, as it actually occurred.
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           All that the mind would shrink from of excesses,
                           All that the body perpetrates of bad,
                           All that we read, hear, dream of man's distresses,
                           All that the devil would do, if run stark mad—
                           Was here let loose.
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               THE dawn had passed, and the sun was coming up above the western hills, on the
                  morning succeeding the events narrated in the last chapter, when a Chippeway
                  warrior was seen, by the out-post scouts of his own camp, to descend rapidly over
                  the brow of the adjacent ridge, and dashing with headlong speed down its ragged
                  and precipitous sides, leap with one tremendous bound across the intervening
                  chasm, and gain the protection of the woods, just as an arrow, whizzing through
                  the air, struck quivering in the tree behind which he sheltered himself.
               "What has the brave Ungus discovered?" said one of the scouts, approaching him—for
                  it was he, who had performed the daring feat; "where has he been, now?"
               "In the camp of the Algonquins," replied the old man, as soon as he could gain
                  breath. "They have gathered in great force on the other side of the ledge, and
                  will be here before the sun is an hour high."
               "And this?" interrogated the first, feeling with his hand a fresh scalp that hung,
                  dripping blood, from the other's girdle.
               "One of their scouts," was the rejoinder. "Away, now," he continued, moving off
                  towards the camp; "pass the word, and let the braves be vigilant at their
                  posts."
               "Ah, Ungus," said Bramley, meeting him, "where have you been? I have been seeking
                  for you this last half hour. Come with me, now, I want to show you something," and
                  taking the Indian by the arm, he hurried him along the edge of the forest, always
                  keeping, however, well concealed within the thick underbrush, to the easterly brow
                  of the hill. "There," he continued, "do you see the clump of stunted oak and cedar
                  standing alone in the hollow?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, there are two men lying under their cover. I have been watching them since
                  it was light enough to see."
               "The white fox has keen vision," said Ungus with a smile, after silently
                  scrutinizing, for some minutes, the locality indicated.
               "Oh! I make no mistake about it," replied the other, confidently "I have been
                  watching round the camp all night, and just at peep of dawn happened here, and looking out across the valley, saw,
                  beyond all peradventure, a man creeping through the short grass from the pines
                  towards the clump of trees I show you; and while I was wondering what deviltry
                     he could be about, another followed him, and the two reached the
                  oaks together."
               "What then?"
               "They remained there, and are there at this moment; or at least were, when I came
                  away to look for you."
               "Who are they?" inquired the Indian, thoughtfully.
               "I do not know," answered Bramley, "it was hardly light enough for me to
                  distinguish, with any degree of certainty, but I am confident there were two of
                  them."
               "How were they?"
               "Both large men; but one much taller than the other."
               "Were they armed?"
               "Yes. The tall one carried a rifle with a bright steel barrel, almost as long as
                  himself the other a shorter one with a brown barrel."
               "What color were their blankets?"
               "Blue."
               "It is well."
               "What do you mean, Ungus—how is it well—do you know who they are?"
               "Ungus is not sure," he replied with proper caution, and turning aside he made a
                  noise through his hands, like the call of the red deer, which was immediately
                  responded to from the woods, and a moment after, a powerful Chippeway warrior,
                  whose gigantic proportions were painted and decked after the gayest style of full
                  war fashion, appeared before him. They had a brief whispered conversation, in the
                  course of which Ungus pointed out where the strangers were supposed to be
                  concealed, and then, with some orders spoken too low for Bramley to hear, he
                  signed for the latter to follow, and left the savage standing alone.
               A minute later, however, he had descended the hill side, and was creeping through
                  the grass towards the clump of oaks and cedars.
               
               "God bless my soul," said Bramley, springing aside for about the twentieth time as
                  the proceeded, "I never met so many snakes in so short a space in all my life
                  before."
               "Hiss, hiss-s-s—."
               "There's another; why, the place is alive with them."
               Ungus said nothing, but trudged unconcernedly along.
               "Hiss, hiss-s-s—," and Bramley jumped aside again, while the other smiled a very
                  quiet smile.
               "Confound it, Ungus, what are you laughing at," said the young man, rather put out
                  by the imperturbability of his companion. "Here is a snake hissing behind every
                  log and every bit of underwood, and you don't seem to mind it at all."
               "They won't bite," said the Indian, with a slight rogueishness of expression.
               "Won't bite?" repeated the other, perplexed and annoyed by his evident quiz, "what
                     do you mean?"
               "Ungus will catch the next one, and show."
               "Hiss-s-s—," came from behind a large log over which Bramley was in the act of
                  jumping. He Sstopped short, and the Indian, stooping low, cried through his hands, "baae, baae," imitating exactly
                  the call of the little fawns; at sound of which the supposed snake raised his head
                  from his concealment, and disclosed, instead of the cold merciless reptile, the
                  ornamented features of a Chippeway brave.
               It was now the white man's turn to smile, as he inquired:
               "Is it possible, Ungus, that all these whom I took to be hissing snakes, are
                  really the Chippeway braves in ambush."
               "Yes! the whole camp is scattered thus across the hill."
               "What a dreadful trap for the enemy to fall into."
               The other shrugged his shoulders, as he replied, "They do not think that there are
                  more than twenty Chippeway braves here."
               "Is it possible? How woefully they are misled."
               "Yes, if it were otherwise, they would not venture to attack—but, as it is, expect
                  to carry all before them, and make short work of it."
               "You say they are assembled in large force."
               "Yes; nearly two hundred strong."
               "That is fearful odds against us. I hope to heaven that we may be able to maintain
                  our ground—we must fight for it. But where is Nishtagau, and where are the
                  girls?"
               Near the summit."
               "Well, I will join them. You will also, will you not?"
               "Yes."
               They now pursued their way in silence, each husy with his thoughts concerning the
                  approaching conflict, which well he knew would be bloody and doubtful; for though
                  the Chippeways had the advantage of position, the Algonquins exceeded them in
                  numbers, as three to one, and, with the death of so many already to revenge, might
                  be expected to fight desperately, and to the last. The silence of death reigned in
                  the woods; the very birds, as if forewarned and dreading the danger, hushed their
                  songs, or deserted their accustomed haunts for safer localities; the air grew
                  sultry and oppressive as the dews left the foliage, and the unclouded sun gained
                  its higher place—the wind was still—the flowers drooped their heads, and the
                  yellow moth himself, folded his restless wings, as though to watch the better the
                  issue of such portentious quiet.
               "The pale-face warrior comes opportunely," said Nishtagau, as Bramley stooped and
                  entered the thick covered dell, in which the chief and some of his braves,
                  together with the maidens, lay concealed. "He is welcome for himself, most
                  welcome; but as his rifle reaches far, and his aim is good and true, he is doubly
                  welcome now."
               "Thank you," said the young man, taking the compliment as much to his weapon,
                  which he held admiringly off, as to himself; "I dare say pussey will make a good
                     report of herself, when she speaks." He smiled complacently at his
                  wretched pun, and selecting a comfortable place near the girls, sat himself down
                  to calmly wait the attack.
               The spot was well selected to observe the whole field of action, being near the
                  most elevated point of a small conical hill, whose abruptly sloping sides were
                  densely covered with a thick and matted growth of underbrush, while from its base
                  across the yawning chasm of about ten feet, stretched a narrow valley, from the
                     opposite side of which rose a
                  succession of lofty, barren hills, that rolled away northward to the country
                  beyond the cave, and southward towards the shores of lake St. Ann, and belted the
                  country for many a league from east to west.
               All along the summits of the neighboring hills were now congregated whole crowds
                  of the enemy, whose peeping faces and painted persons, darting from rock to rock,
                  and shelter to shelter, were easily seen from the Chippeway ambush; but they
                  carefully refrained from exposing themselves, and hesitated long before they
                  ventured to attempt a descent at so obvious a disadvantage to themselves; for the
                  sides of their own hills being naked, they would necessarily become, in making an
                  attack, sure marks for the rifles of their enemies, without a chance to themselves
                  of even returning the fire until they gained the opposite woods. Several times,
                  one more bold than the rest, essayed to lead, but drew hastily back again as he
                  found himself alone, compensating his courage with a yell of fierce defiance.
               Nothing of all this, and much more, too, was lost to the besieged, and none, of
                  all the waiting and impatient braves, watched a chance more eagerly than Bramley,
                  to draw a trigger on the foe; and when, at length, the Algonquin leader fairly
                  appeared upon the edge of the opposite hill, and was in the act of leaping over
                  upon the strata beneath, it was his rifle that was first brought to
                  shoulder and spit forth the missle of destruction that begun the bloody fray. The
                  savage, standing on the verge, received the bullet in his heart, and throwing his
                  hands aloft, with one desparing cry of rage and pain, sprang upward from his
                  place, and then fell heavily back, down the ragged steep, from rock to rock, a
                  disfigured, lifeless thing.
               This was the last spur wanting to drive the enemy to action. With one simultaneous
                  yell of anger—one common feeling of vengeance—they poured themselves like a
                  furious torrent over the precipices around the hill, and dashed recklessly
                  forward, undismayed by the numbers that fell about them under the dreadful fire of
                  the Chippeways. Every shot of the latter told, for every warrior was a marksman;
                  and before the Algonquins had reached the foot of the hill, a hundred of their
                  braves lay dead or dying, marking, with pools of blood, the spots on which they
                  fell. But now, nearly a hundred more had reached the shelter of the woods, and,
                  like their foes, quickly hid themselves in its deep covers, there to lay in wait,
                  or snake their way about, till chance or cunning brought one or other in view,
                  when the ringing rifle and the scream of pain told the fact and the result. It was
                  all that broke the awful stillness of the air; keen senses, backed by stout hearts
                  and determined hands, watched from every bush; the knife and hatchet were busy,
                  and the reeking scalps were torn away; but the silence was seldom broken, and only
                  by the rifles' voice and following death cry.
               Thus hours passed; the well ensconced Chippeways, every where retaining their
                  first advantage, and picking off their enemies, one by one, as they discovered
                  themselves—which the latter, still believing the others were less considerable in
                  numbers than was really the fact, were more careless in doing, than they otherwise
                  would have been. Neither party, however, could know exactly how the battle went,
                  for, generally, each individual, concealed even from his friends, was fighting on his own account, and independently
                  of the rest; and when the report and cry were heard, none but those immediately
                  interested, knew whether a friend or foe had fallen.
               There was one knot of the enemy, however, of a dozen or more, which included
                  Chuphe, and the other chiefs, who kept together; and being to the westward of the
                  field, were, as they supposed, beyond the line of observation, and, under cover of
                  the thick vines that hung tangled from the trees, were slowly creeping up the
                  hill, intending to get in behind their foes, and bring them thus between two
                  advancing lines. But they were mistaken; they did not escape the watchful eyes of
                  the Chippeways; and Nishtagau, who had been out, and about, warily snaking his way
                  among his men, now conceiving that the enemy were reduced to numbers that his
                  warriors could openly cope with, determined at once to bring matters to an
                  issue.
               Returning to his little party, from whom he had been absent some time, he beckoned
                  Ungus, Bramley, and the two other warriors to follow him, and leading them quickly
                  off to a group of evergreens standing below them, pointed out the advancing
                  chiefs.
               "There," said he, speaking in a hurried whisper, "this shall decide the issue of
                  the day—loose not a single shot—for they are double our numbers—but each appoint
                  his man—Nishtagau will take the first—Ungus the second—the white chief, whose
                  rifle speaks twice, the third and fourth, and the two braves the fifth and sixth.
                  Fire all together, and reload instantly, for the volley will cause the chiefs to
                  sound the war whoop of their tribe, which will summon and bring about them all the
                  rest of their party, and the struggle then will come hand to hand—for the
                  Chippeway warriors shall meet them."
               Slowly and steadily the deadly aims were taken, and and on the word, fired at
                  once, when the marked men, without an instant's warning of their fate, fell where
                  they stood and never moved again—but their comrades, though checked for a moment,
                  were undismayed, and springing to their feet, and defiantly yelling their national
                  war cry, dashed madly forward to grapple with their foes.
               They were answered by a whoop as fierce and defiant as their own, and met with
                  another dreadful volley which reduced their number to three, who, furious beyond
                  control, and reckless of all consequence, sprang into the cover, and rushed upon
                  the first who offered with such impetuous force as to bear them bodily to the
                  ground. These happened to be Nishtagau, Ungus, and one of the warriors, who, in
                  the close embrace of their hated foes, now rolled over and over in doubtful
                  contest; giving and receiving wounds from their long bloodstained knives. It would
                  have gone hard, however, with the brave old men, but for the presence of Bramley
                  and the other warrior; for, as soon became evident, they were no match by
                  themselves for the more vigorous and desperate savages with whom they
                  contended.
               "Look you to the chief," said Bramley, addressing his companion, "and I will help
                  poor old Ungus." And springing forward, with one blow of his hatchet, he
                  bespattered his friend with the brains of his enemy.
               "Ungus—Ungus," he called, stooping over the old man, who, exhausted and bleeding,
                  lay back upon the grass. "You are badly hurt, I fear. Look up Ungus, it is me who
                  speaks. Here," said he, tearing his shirt into strips, "let me bind your wounds;" and raising him up, he performed his
                  office as well as the means within his reach would afford. Upon examination,
                  however, they did not prove to be as serious as at first supposed, and he soon so
                  far recovered—though weak from over exertion, and loss of blood—as to stand upon
                  his feet, and, with that indomitable courage, and irrepressible determination, for
                  which his people are distinguished, resumed his weapons again. Nishtagau was much
                  in the same condition, but the unfortunate warrior, whom Chuphe had seized, lay
                  dead in the brawny arms, that were nevertheless as lifeless as his own, that
                  closed convulsively about him.
               The fierce war cry, and noise of clashing weapons, now came up from the hollow,
                  mingled with screams of pain, yells of rage, and shouts of defiance: 
                     
                        "Their clamors rent the hills around,
                        And earth rebellow'd with the sound."
                     
                  
               
               The bloody work went bravely on, and many a ghastly wound was given, as breast to
                  breast, and hand to hand, the contending parties fought desperately with knife and
                  hatchet: 
                     
                        "'Twas blow for blow, disputing inch by inch,
                        For one would not retreat, nor t'other flinch."
                     
                  
               
               And thus for a long time the result seemed doubtful, until at length the
                  Algonquins began to waiver and divide, and then, taking to the shelter of the
                  trees again, finally retreated, closely pursued by the Chippeways to the edge of
                  the wood, where the enemy made one last desperate, though unavailing rally, but
                  were driven back with such slaughter, that of all the large party who were
                  assembled in the morning in all the pride and confidence of power, but a sorry
                  handful escaped to tell the tale of their discomfiture.
               But what of the maidens during all this time? We must go back a couple of hours to
                  answer. They and the little boy had remained in the rocky dell in which they had
                  been left by the chief. They were both in a highly excited state of mind, though
                  differently influenced; they could hear the firing, the clash of weapons, and the
                  groans of the dying; the screams of pain and failure—the shouts of defiance and
                  success: but how the battle went; whether friend or foe had most advantage they
                  could not tell, and poor, timid, frightened Yoesie was in despair; but Winona,
                  nerved and dauntless, would have gone forth herself to do a share, or seek, in the
                  excitement of action, relief from the misery of restraint, and several times she
                  seized her light fuzee and attempted to go; but the imploring tears of Yoesie, and
                  the cries of her little brother, deterred her, and she consented to stay within
                  the place of their fancied security, where they believed themselves to have been
                  undiscovered.
               They might have seen, however, had they looked that way, three ill-starred persons
                  skulking up among the rocks above, glaring down upon them with expressions of
                  fiendish exultation; who, after feasting their eyes, and gloating over the sight
                  beneath, began slowly to descend, assured that they were unobserved, and none were
                  nigh to interfere. But in these last suppositions they also were mistaken, for
                  higher still among the rocks were concealed two large and powerful men, who
                  narrowly scanned every movement of the others, behind whom, as they descended, the
                  two strangers cautiously followed, and, so closely, too, that when the first three sprang upon the unsuspecting and
                  defenceless maidens, the strangers were but a few yards distant.
               "Good God," said Bramley, starting up from his crouching position near Ungus and
                  the chief, as the wild scream of a terrified female rang through the forest, and
                  reached his ear, "the devils have discovered the girls," and dashing off, he
                  quickly mounted the hill, closely followed by Nishtagau, Ungus and several
                  others.
               The girls had indeed been discovered, as we have seen, though not by "the devils"
                  whom Bramley had expected, and it was poor Yoesie's voice that had given the
                  alarm—and no wonder it should, when the dreaded Miskow, the despised Wawpoosa, and
                  the remorseless Macon, suddenly sprang into her presence from the steeps above her
                  head, and she found herself instantly lifted in the hated arms of the treacherous
                  Winnebago, and moving rapidly away. No wonder she lost her presence of mind, and
                  screamed right lustily too; but her cries were smothered by the broad hand of the
                  savage placed across her mouth, while he began to hastily retreat. Miskow, with a
                  chuckle of triumphant vengeance, seized up the boy and turned quickly round and
                  clambered up the rocks again; while the dwarf advanced towards Winona to perform a
                  similar office for her; but there was no timidity here; she stood erect and firm,
                  and wholly undismayed, and as the misshapen creature approached her with rapid
                  steps, she snatched her gun from where it lay, and ere he could reach her side,
                  shot him dead at her feet.
               This scene occupied but a few seconds in the acting, so rapid were the movements
                  of those concerned; yet the two strangers were in time to prevent any escape of
                  the first actors. With one daring bound the agile Indian threw himself over the
                  rocks, and landing close beside Wawpoosa, struck him to the earth with a heavy
                  blow from his club, and snatched the almost fainting Yoesie from his grasp, only,
                  however, it would seem, to fold her in his own brawny arms—while the muscular
                  figure of the second stranger, still among the rocks above, interposed itself
                  between Miskow and further retreat.
               "The Manitou of Evil," said she, in frenzied accents, "seems to have deserted
                  Miskow, when his services are most needed. But she will not be wholly
                  cheated of her vengeance; and if she cannot have the just measure belonging to her
                  wrongs, she will at least keep what she has in her grasp. Back, stranger," she
                  continued, as the other advanced, to stay her horrid purpose, "no power on earth
                  can save him now." And swinging the unfortunate child by the leg, once round her
                  head, she dashed it against the rocks below, where it fell a shapeless, unsightly
                  mass of flesh and blood.
               "By heavens, you shall do no further mischief, you cursed old hag," said the
                  stranger, instantly catching her in his arms, where he held her secure as in a
                  vice, despite her violent struggles, until she was firmly bound hand and foot.
               At this moment, Bramley appeared upon the scene.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE STRANGERS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           The lost ones? They are here;
                           Behold! and crowned with deeds
                           Of valor, meetly done.
                        
                     
                     —ANON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Here stands the victim—there the proud betrayer.
                     
                     —SCOTT.
                  
               
               "WHAT, Dick! is it possible?" exclaimed Bramley, springing eagerly
                  forward to meet the ready embrace of his friend Wood; "why, my dear
                  Dick, where have you been—where have you come from? Oh,
                  Dick, I am so glad to see you."
               "And I, too, dear Frank, to meet you," he answered warmly. "God bless your brave
                  and noble heart; give me your honest hand again, and let me feel its friendly
                  grip. It makes me happy, Frank, very happy; for I almost feared I might never know
                  its responsive pressure again."
               "Thank you, Dick, thank you; but, as you see, I am not done for yet—I am good for
                  another bout," he added pleasantly.
               "You are true pluck, Frank, I know, and true blue, too, and yet"—
               He stopped and pointed sadly to the young man's bandaged head and arm.
               "Oh, they are nothing," said he, observing the gesture; "I am well of them,
                  now—but, tell me, what has"—
               "I can tell you nothing, now, Frank," said Wood, interrupting him; "see yonder
                  lies that arch villain, Wawpoosa; he seems reviving from the effects of his blow;
                  let us, therefore, bind him securely while it can be done without much
                  trouble."
               "Holloa, Dick!" exclaimed the other, in a tone of surprise, as he turned round and
                  caught a glimpse through the trees, within the rocky area, "look, there! do you
                  see that tall savage vagabond? Why, confound the fellow; I'll be hanged if he
                  isn't actually hugging pretty little Yoesie. Who is he?" he inquired, with
                  indignant emphasis.
               "That 'tall savage vagabond,' as you are pleased to call him," replied the other,
                  quietly, "is my friend."
               "Your friend?"
               "Yes! my friend. You seem to think it vastly odd that I should have a friend,"
                  said Wood, with some warmth.
               "Not at all, not at all," interposed the other; "but I wondered"—
               "That man," continued the first, in a tone of earnest defence, without heeding
                  Bramley's disclaimer, "has a heart and attributes that would adorn a throne, and
                  are fitly mated with his manly beauty—he is"—
               "Oh, I doubt it not, Dick, I doubt it not," said the young man, quickly
                  interrupting, hurt by his friend's haste, "I meant no offence, I only"—
               "Ah, forgive me, dear Frank," said the other impulsively, and extending his hand,
                  as he noticed the pained expression.
               "Most certainly, my dear Dick," replied his friend, cordially returning the
                  pressure, "but you misunderstood me; all I intended to express was a surprise that
                  you should have had opportunity of forming even an acquaintance, out of the
                  tribe."
               
               "He is a Chippeway," was the rejoinder.
               "Is he? He does not wear the Chippeway paint."
               "He is a Chippeway, nevertheless; but I cannot now explain; let us secure our
                  prisoners first, and as soon as victory is declared and we are all assembled, my
                  friend there shall speak for himself."
               At this juncture the chief arrived with Ungus and a few warriors following close
                  behind, and after a word of greeting to the white men, he turned and entered the
                  little rock-bound area which had been the theatre of the events narrated at the
                  close of the last chapter, but he paused on the threshold as if dumbfounded, and
                  surveyed with his wondering braves, who crowded in, the striking tableau which
                  presented itself to his gaze.
               Before him, in the centre, stood the massive figure of a gigantic warrior, whose
                  mien commanding, and whose haughty glance flinched nothing before the angry
                  flashings of the chieftain's eyes. He wore no symbols to denote his rank or
                  nation, but his features and lordly presence left no room for doubt on these
                  points. His attitude was at once easy and firm, and the outlines of his strongly
                  knit frame were well displayed against the dark rocks that rose behind him. His
                  right arm was extended, and his hand grasped a huge war club, whose butt rested on
                  the ground; and on that arm was laid the tiny hand of Winona, who
                  otherwise stood erect, and proudly beside him, meeting her fierce father's look
                  respectfully, though firmly, like one conscious of a right, and resolved to do it;
                  while his left was twined round the slight and graceful form of Yoesie, who,
                  tearful, timid, and glad, glanced furtively upon the mute warriors, and then fixed
                  her gaze trustingly upon his face, and nestled closer to his side. The group was
                  fine, and as the principal figure stood thus defiantly before the excited
                  Nishtagau, and his blood stained braves, he might recall to mind the memory of the
                  noble Lycaon, at the moment of saving his sisters from the rapacious and
                  victorious Greeks. But there was more in the picture. At Winona's feet lay
                  extended the dead body of the unfortunate dwarf, and further to the right, the
                  manacled Miskow and Wawpoosa, silent, gloomy and revengeful, sat leaning against
                  the stones; while to the left, Bramley and Wood, who had advanced themselves
                  within, stood arm in arm, curious spectators of the scene.
               The chief was the first to speak.
               "Has the daughter of Nishtagau—the Okemaw of all the Chippeways—forgotten who she
                  is?" he inquired with severe dignity, addressing Winona.
               "She has not," was the calm response.
               "Does she know near whose disgraced person she stands—on whose degraded arm she
                  lays her hand all so trustingly?"
               "Base nor degraded either, is the young warrior chief," she replied quickly, with
                  roused pride and warmth, "she knows him well. He is no other than the noble
                  Chippeway brave, whom the machinations of yonder villainous dog were intended to
                  destroy; whose fair name his slanderous tongue reviled; and whose happy lodge his
                  lying cheat made sorry. Aye! truly she knows him—for he is the playmate of her
                  childhood, and the companion of her rambles; in later years her tried and honest
                  friend; the brave who saved her life, and her protector in many a peril. Is he
                  not, too, the brother of her loved
                  Irenene? Aye! even so, for he is Pilawah, the son of Ungus.
               She spoke with much animation, and her cheek took new color from the excitement;
                  her brilliant eyes flashed, and her figure drawn up to its full height, she had
                  the commanding presence of a queen, and looked the personification of dauntless
                  dignity and splendid beauty,—a victorious championess of truth and justice.
               Something of this, no doubt, impressed the chief, for all traces of passion faded
                  from his brow as she ceased to speak, and his features gradually assumed their
                  cold and haughty expression.
               "Good!" shouted Wood, unable to contain himself, and starting forward, he snatched
                  the maiden to his heart; "spoken like my own noble, generous Winona."
               "Bravo," exclaimed Bramley, excitedly, seizing in his arms the nearest savage for
                  want of something better, and swinging him round and round; "Bravo, bravo,"—but he
                  quickly let the surprised warrior go, and while the fellow went spinning head
                  first into the midst of his companions, the young man sprang forward, and taking
                  Pilawah by the hand, shook it heartily, as he continued:
               "I am your friend, Pilawah, and there is my hand upon it. Your name is no stranger
                  to my ears, for I have heard much of your deeds and virtues, and you shall have my
                  friendship for your own sake—but even had it been otherwise, it would be enough
                  for me that you are the friend of my friend, and the son of good old Ungus."
               The Indian was evidently deeply touched by this frankness and warmth, and
                  cordially responded to the hearty pressure of the hand within his own, but he
                  ventured no other reply; his old father had approached and stood silently before
                  him, almost choked with his emotions; while the stigmatized son, scarcely
                  venturing to recognize the parent he loved so well, for he doubted how he might be
                  received, returned his fond fixed gaze with one of sadness, not unmixed, however,
                  with a hopeful expression. But nature soon asserted her sway—and stern warriors
                  though they were, the kindred impulse moved them both. The old man reached forth
                  his hands.
               "Father!" exclaimed Pilawah.
               "Son!"
               And in an instant they were clasped in a warm embrace.
               This was enough to thaw the ice, dispel the doubts, and break the restraint which
                  deterred the people. Pilawah had always been a favorite among them, for he was
                  endowed in an eminent degree with all those qualities which they deemed most
                  admirable—courage, strength, youth and manly beauty, with ardent and generous
                  sympathies, and unmatched skill in feats of arms and vigor. Few had ever believed
                  him guilty of the mean crime for which he was so cruelly banished, and now, coming
                  so opportunely on the heels of the discovery of Wawpoosa's treachery, he was fully
                  acquitted by all, and in a fair way, besides, to be raised higher in the regards
                  of his impulsive and excitable countrymen, than ever he occupied before; for they
                  crowded round him with constant accessions to their numbers, as the warriors,
                  bloodstained and weary though they were, arrived one by one from the field of the
                  fight, and all vied with each other in the extravagant heartiness of their
                  welcomes, stripping themselves on the spot of all they wore and carried, even to the valued scalps of
                  their enemies, to endow him with presents as recompense for his wrongs, and make
                  him feel that they were happy to receive him again. The chief alone refused to
                  notice him, yet, powerful as he was, durst go no further than his own disregard.
                  That he had committed a wrong upon an innocent man, he now felt to be true; but
                  his inordinate pride forbid him to acknowledge it, and sooner than admit his
                  error, or stoop to the necessity of making amends, he sternly persisted in his
                  injustice and haughtily kept aloof.
               There might, however, be another reason. He was ill at ease, for the burning eyes
                  of Miskow were upon him, searching him to the very soul; and though her gaze
                  seemed to scorch and pierce his breast like hot knives twisted in a wound, he was
                  determined that she should not perceive a particle of human
                  feeling,—which, according to his philosophy, was only another term for
                  weakness,—and he therefore maintained for awhile, at least, the severest demeanor;
                  he concentrated his will, and congealed his being; but what, less than stone
                  itself, could stand before the furious passion, the maddening fire, the direful
                  hate, the defiant devilishness, which were all compressed to painful acuteness,
                  and shot their intense rays together from her insane orbs.
                  Nothing—not even Nishtagau himself—the proud Okemaw of all the Chippeways; and,
                  when she rose by degrees, bound and shackled as she was, to her full height, and
                  stood before him like a Gorgon, conscious he must fall before her power, with an
                  expression of withering contempt spread upon her features, as she bent her head
                  before him, he could meet her look no longer; he could endure the pain no more; he
                  was overmatched, his eyes fell, his cheek paled, his heart stood still, and he
                  turned upon his heel and suddenly left the place.
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Miskow, in her most discordant tones, which fell as
                  painfully on his ear as her eyes had done upon his face; "this is better than
                  blood—better than bloodmdash;better than blood."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE RESULT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           The only amaranthine flow'r on earth
                           Is virtue: the only lasting treasure, Truth.
                        
                     
                     —COWPER.
                  
               
               THE sun that looked upon the events just described, was now scarcely an hour past
                  the noon, and though brief the time, how different the scene to that on which he
                  rose. Many watched him then, who will see him no more; many a heart that bounded
                  then with vigorous life, is still forever; many a bosom that swelled with hopes of
                  glory, and brave resolves on mighty "deeds of desperate daring," have heaved their
                  last sigh; and many a giant frame of iron nerve is prostrate in the dust. Homes
                  that were glad at the dawn are bereft at the noon, and a few short hours have
                  suffered to take fathers and husbands from children and wives, sever the ties of
                  love and friendship, and fill their places with orphans and widows, and sorrow and
                  pain; and of the proud array of manly strength that saw the morning, few escaped
                  the field to tell their direful chances.
                  
                     
                        "Thus doth the ever changing course of things
                        Run a perpetual circle, ever turning;
                        And that same day, that highest glory brings,
                        Brings us unto the point of back returning."
                     
                  
               
               The Algonquins were routed in every direction with dreadful slaughter, and the
                  victors, weary, blood-stained and disordered, loaded with the reeking trophies
                  torn from the heads of their vanquished foes, soon after climbed to the mountain's
                  barren summit, bearing the bodies of their dead and wounded companions. The number
                  thus assembled were but thirty-three, besides the white men and Pilawah, who were
                  fit for further duty; the rest, counting up to twenty-one, were either dead or
                  disabled, and had, consequently, to be carried by the survivors, very few of whom
                  had escaped the fray wholly unscathed. In fact, all had more or less suffered, and
                  the wonder was that, considering the number and desperate obstinacy of their foes,
                  they got off as cheaply as they did. However, after a brief and much needed
                  repose, they raised up their burthens, and driving their prisoners before,
                  commenced the descent to lake St. Ann.
               And here we cannot but pause to reflect that all this bloodshed and sacrifice of
                  human life; all this suffering and woe; all this fatigue and pain, were caused by
                  the evil passions of one man—passions which, growing with his growth,
                  increased in power and aim; mastered the man and drove him headlong forward in his
                  desperate career; pausing at nothing, until they finally worked their own
                  destruction, and wrecked their possessor on the shores of destiny. Like the
                  snowball that, rolling down the mountain side, gathers magnitude and force in its
                  progress, and after over whelming whatever stood in the way of its advance, is at
                  last dashed to pieces by its own ponderous might, on the rocky hills beneath.
                  Thus, Claudian well hath asked: 
                     
                        "What profits us, that we from Heaven derive
                        A soul immortal, and with looks erect
                        Survey the stars, if, like the brutal kind,
                        We follow where our passions lead the way?"
                     
                   Little indeed; the heart may then be likened to a doomed ship, hurried onward
                  by resistless tides, towards the hidden breakers that shall destroy it. Reason is
                  the pilot, but he deserts when the vessel's tossed 
                     "On passion's stormy billow,"
                   and then the mad waters dancing in glee, 
                     
                        "Swell to new heights, forbidden paths explore,
                        And drown those virtues which they fed before."
                     
                  
               
               The journey was necessarily slowly performed, on account of the number of dead and
                  wounded to be carried; the prisoners to be guarded, and the few who were really in
                  a condition to endure continued exertion. Winona and Yoesie, however, were
                  especially useful and unremitting in their attentions to the disabled and
                  suffering warriors, and did much to soothe their pains and lighten the way; nor
                  did they overlook their old enemy, Miskow, but she sternly declined to accept
                  their proffered kindness,—answered, (if at all,) only by a gesture, and maintained
                  a gloomy silence—betrayed neither curiosity or concern, nor as much as lifted her
                  eyes from the ground, unless, perchance, in the shifting of the canoes or other
                  accidents of the journey, she found herself near Nishtagua, and then, and then
                     only, she raised her head, and
                  drawing herself proudly erect, glared fiercely and defiantly upon him with an
                  expression of ineffable scorn.
               On such occasions the old man was evidently cowed, and turned hastily away; he
                  avoided as much as possible her vicinity, and became more and more restless as he
                  drew near home; for, besides the keen pangs of conscience which he endured, his
                  pride must fall and he be humbled before his whole people—his spotless reputation
                  blackened, and all his bright deeds tarnished by the disclosures which he knew
                  must come. And he grew more morose and harsh than ever, avoiding society or
                  conversation, even with Ungus, and speaking only his commands in tones peremptory
                  and stern. Nor was this mood without its effect upon the men under him, and
                  impatient with pain, and weary, with fatigue as many of them were, this usage of
                  their chief gave much displeasure, and the result was, a great deal of ill humor
                  was manifested on all sides.
               But Bramley and Wood suffered nothing of this to disturb their equanimity, and
                  continued active in their efforts to assist everybody in turn, in which kindly
                  office they found a ready and able ally in their new friend Pilawah, and the three
                  worked incessantly together, nor relaxed their exertions until the camp had been
                  formed, and every one comfortably disposed of for the night. After this a short
                  hour, spent in the society of those who were dear to them, sufficiently rewarded
                  their toils, and they then sought their own rest until the morrow's dawn should
                  call them to resume their labors.
               At length, however, the weary travel drew to a close, and on the fifth day after
                  the battle, the whole company safely reached the village, where they were welcomed
                  comed with a strangely mixed and incongruous tumult, made up of cries and groans
                  of bewailing for the dead; and shouts and yells of rejoicing for the success of
                  the expedition.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE PRISONERS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Why is life given
                           To be wrested from us? rather why
                           Obtruded on us thus? Who, if we knew
                           What we receive, would either not accept
                           Life offer'd, or soon beg to lay it down,
                           Glad to be so dismiss'd in peace.
                        
                     
                     —MILTON.
                  
               
               THE morning of the third day after the arrival of the party in the village, was
                  dark and lowering; heavy mists obscured the landscape far and near, and
                  threatening clouds, that hid the sun, hung above the hills in portentous array, as
                  if waiting but a signal to roll their masses forward in angry strife; but the
                  hurrying winds that should drive them on to conflict were still far distant, and
                  the heavy air was inert itself: so the changeless gloom rested on the scene.
               There was much bustling in the village, however, and an air of high and
                  self-satisfied importance about many of the gaily painted warriors, who moved
                  quickly from point to point, which betokened, at least, that matters of much
                  public interest were on foot. There had been new arrivals, too, the night before,
                  of several parties of chiefs and warriors from the various villages of the
                     nation tion, who were now encamped
                  in squads in separate sections of the extensive area before the council lodge, and
                  vied with each other in the gaudiness of their attire and coloring, and in the
                  mincing dandyism of their movements.
               But the principal object of curiosity and attention seemed to be concealed within
                  two small buildings standing apart and near the end of the great council chamber,
                  constructed of heavy logs raised upon a stone foundation, on every side of which a
                  strong guard of armed warriors constantly paced to and fro, while little knots of
                  savages grouped here and there in the vicinity, were conversing in low tones, and
                  regarded the huts, from time to time, with wistful glances, as they compared
                  observations and passed remarks.
               Towards the farthest of these buildings, Ungus and Bramley now made their way
                  through the crowds that thronged about, and having exchanged a few words with the
                  sentinel without, entered.
               The place in which they found themselves was a small square chamber, wholly
                  unfurnished and bare of every convenience; its walls were the rough unhewn logs,
                  and the naked earth was the only floor—light (and wind and rain, too, for that
                  matter) was freely admitted through the numerous chinks in the roof and sides, and
                  clearly exhibited the full discomforts of the apartment, whose only occupant, on
                  this occasion, was the shrunken figure of an old woman, who sat doubled up and
                  shivering in the corner.
               "Good morning, Miskow," said the young man, in a tone intended to be encouraging,
                  as he advanced and took a seat beside the old woman; "good morning— you see I have
                  brought Ungus with me, as you requested."
               "It is well," she answered, in a hollow voice; "let the warrior remain a
                  moment."
               Ungus started at the unearthly sound of her voice—he could not help it—and a shade
                  of deep commisseration passed over his fine features, as he raised his head and
                  gazed upon the wretched figure before him. She was much altered since her
                  confinement, and now she looked so haggard and worn, so emaciated and decrepid,
                  with eyes so bloodshot and sunken, as to render her whole appearance perfectly
                  horrible; and the sympathetic heart of the old Indian was really shocked at the
                  change which the last two or three days had wrought."
               "Does the council sit to-day?" she inquired calmly, addressing Bramley.
               "It does," he answered.
               "Then Miskow will sing her death song at once. Not a word," she added hastily,
                  observing the young man about to speak; "Miskow has said it. Now," she continued,
                  after a brief pause, "has the pale-face done the Ickwee's bidding?"
               "I have."
               "And told her whole story to Ungus?"
               "Yes."
               "It is well," she answered, and still speaking to Bramley, added, "tell him
                  more—tell him at this last day of her existence she wished to thank him for his
                  kindness to her poor murdered child—that she does thank him, with all the heart
                  and energy which remains to her, and that with the last breath that heaves her
                  bosom she will call on the Great Spirit to bless him for the act. This is all she
                  has for him. To the pale-face," she continued, "she has nothing to give but this—take it," she
                  added, presenting a worn and battered ring of silver which she had drawn from her
                  own finger, "take it—and now begone—nor come near old Miskow again, for her tongue
                  speaks no more, until its last words resound along the rafters of the council
                  lodge."
               She ceased speaking, and, following the somewhat imperative gesture of her
                  outstretched hand, they left the prison without further remark.
               "She is a strange creature," said Bramley, addressing his companions as soon as
                  they got outside, "very strange—always the same cold, stern, forbidding manner,
                  repelling anything like an approach to friendship, and stifling the warmer
                  impulses of her nature, almost before they have birth."
               "It was these very qualities of friendship and impulse that caused her misery,"
                  remarked the Indian, quietly.
               "Well! it may be even as you say, and yet I do not think that it is sufficient to
                  account for the perfect stoicism which she has exhibited lately: she actually
                  listened to the accounts which I gave her of poor Irenene, of her appearance, her
                  life, her pursuits, her virtues and beauty, without a trace of emotion; and heard
                  the story of her death without a sigh of regret. In vain I have tried to interest
                  her, to sympathise, to cheer or comfort her loneliness, and remove or soothe her
                  anguish; what was the result? A harsh and most ungracious demand to be left alone,
                  or a peremptory order to be silent."
               "And yet she likes the pale-face," said Ungus.
               "She has a very queer way of showing it? But how so?"
               "He is the only one with whom she holds any communication whatever, nor has she as
                  much as addressed a single word to any other."
               "Why, yes," answered the other thoughtfully, "I believe I am. God help her. I
                  suppose," he added, after a short pause, during which he had been thinking deeply,
                  "there is no chance for her life?"
               "None," replied the Indian.
               "God help her!" fervently exclaimed the young man, again; "God help her; I much
                  wished to have rendered the condition of her last days less comfortless, and
                  easily obtained permission from Nishtagau to provide her with some few
                  necessaries: but she ordered them off, and angrily forbid my making any similar
                  attempt. Do you know, Ungus, it seems to me that she has in a measure made up her
                  mind to a sort of penitence, and to have done, not only with the least
                  self-indulgence, but with the animosities of the world besides."
               The other shook his head.
               "What do you say 'no' for, Ungus?" pursued the young man.
               "She is a Chippeway," was the reply, "and will die as she has lived."
               "You may be right, Ungus, but still I think that she has in some degree at least
                  forgiven Nishtagau."
               "The young man is very young," said the Indian, with a meaning smile."
               "Well, but I do," persisted Bramley, "and what is more, I think I may say I heard
                  her own lips say as much. They have had an interview."
               "Ah!"
               "Yes; it took place two nights ago, in the Elm grove, behind Nishtagau's lodge, and not far from
                  where I first saw her."
               "Is the pale-face sure?" inquired the other.
               "No, not exactly sure, because it was too dark to distinguish
                  objects, and I only heard a few words of conversation, in voices which I thought I
                  recognized as theirs."
               "How happened it?"
               "In this way: Wood and I, towards dusk, strolled over to Oconee's lodge—he to pass
                  an hour or so with Winona, and I with the old people; but when we arrived, Winona
                  alone was within, and after a few minutes I left Wood there and crossed over the
                  hill to the wigwaum of Pilawah, intending to pass the time with him; he, however,
                  was also from home, having, as I afterwards learned, gone to visit Yoesie; so,
                  there being no inducement for me to remain, I turned round and slowly retraced my
                  steps, until near the grove I spoke of, where, just as I was descending the hill,
                  I thought I heard some one exclaim, "No! the time has not come." I was very much
                  surprised, for the voice sounded to me strangely like Miskow's, and I stopped
                  short to listen, but, from where I then stood, could distinguish nothing more than
                  a confused murmur as the conversation was renewed by the other party. I therefore
                  drew cautiously nearer, and presently distinguished the tones of Nishtagau's
                  voice, as he said "If vengeance is all, take it now; the knife is keen and the
                  bosom bare. "She has spoken," said the other voice, with resolute calmness. "The
                  woods are free and clear," pursued the first. "She will not go," answered the
                  second, in the same tone as before. At this moment Wood approached, in
                  conversation with Winona, which caused those, whom I took to be Nishtagau and
                  Miskow, to move off into the deeper bush, and I heard no more."
               "The young man is right," said the Indian, after a few moment's thought; "it was
                  no doubt the guilty betrayer, too coward to afford open justice in the face of
                  day, seeking a compromise with his proud victim, by the offer of a stealthy
                  vengeance in the darkness of night. No," he continued, warmly, "she will not take
                  that now, and she is right. She must fall—but, dragged before the whole people of
                  her nation, she will fall before their eyes, as she should fall, a terrible
                  example of her sin, leaving obloquy, shame and retributive justice to visit the
                  author of her first disgrace, and cause of her subsequent career."
               "Alas, for pride."
               "Even so; but what of the other: of Wawpoosa; has the pale-face seen him?"
               "Yes, but only through the chinks in his prison. He excites but little curiosity,
                  no sympathy whatever, and is scarcely cared for. He is much altered, and seems
                  quite dejected."
               "It is well," answered Ungus, "he was born evil, and his nature hardened as it
                  grew; until his breast became callous as the nails upon his fingers, and
                  insensible to the keen pangs of conscience, and that agony which hearts not
                     naturally bad, feel in his ignominious and dishonored
                  position."
               "There is of course no hope for him."
               "No, no! he has lived too long already, and now must pay the severest penalty that
                  those whom he has injured can exact,—his life."
               "God help him," said the young man, fervently, "and I trust he may find that mercy
                  in heaven which he cannot not receive
                  here. Look, Ungus, look," he added, as a commotion in the crowd attracted his
                  attention, "the chiefs are moving now, and the council will soon be in session:
                  let us hasten, then, to our places."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE COUNCIL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           His words seem'd oracles
                           That piere'd their bosoms; and each man would turn
                           And gaze in wonder on his neighbor's face,
                           That with the like dumb wonder answer'd him.
                        
                     
                     —CROLY.
                  
               
               AS Bramley spoke, a procession of chiefs advanced towards the council lodge with
                  slow and stately tread, to the music of a low measured chant, accompanied by an
                  occasional clash of weapons, the more distinctly to mark the time. They were all
                  richly dressed in embroidered robes, and had their faces painted in the brightest
                  colors, each according to his taste, which, however, pretty generally ran upon
                  red, yellow and blue, pleasantly variegated with streaks of black, blue and
                  white—and bore themselves proudly, though with something of a solemn air, as they
                  passed between two long files of curious lookers on, men, women and children, who
                  lined the way, and aided with their voices to swell the cadence to which they
                  marched.
               A little distance behind the other chiefs came the towering form of Nishtagau, who
                  never looked more dignified than now; and though the occasion was most momentous
                  to him, and a thousand pangs shot through his heart as he reflected that the dear
                  and spotless fabric of his reputation which he had reared at so much sacrifice and
                  labor, and supported with so much pride and pain, must now be brought to the
                  ground and demolished, yet he exhibited nothing of such feelings. His broad
                  forehead uncovered to the heavens was smooth, and the naked breast on which his
                  brawny arms were folded, heaved as calmly as if all was at peace within. His mien
                  was haughty and dauntless, and his expression stern and passionless. He wore no
                  paint or ornament, and carried no weapon but the long knife at his girdle, yet
                  none could be unimpressed with the majesty of his bearing, and all must have felt
                  that he was chief of the nation.
               The chiefs entered the council chamber, and Nishtagau having taken his seat in the
                  centre of the dais at the furthest end, the others ranged themselves on either
                  side of him, according to their respective ranks and consequence. After the chiefs
                  came the principal warriors and people of the tribe, who ranged themselves along
                  the sides of the lodge, to the number, perhaps, of a couple of hundred or more;
                  but all was done quickly and noiselessly, and with a degree of decorum and absence
                  of confusion, that deliberative bodies among more pretending people cannot always
                  boast.
               The necessary preliminaries being dispatched, and the council organized for
                  business, one of the senior chiefs rose and briefly stated the objects of its
                  meeting, and ordered the two prisoners to be brought in. Miskow and Wawpoosa were
                  then immediately placed at opposite sides of the broad area, in front of the
                  chiefs, and directed to stand with their faces towards the Okemaw.
               
               Miskow required no bidding to do this, for the moment she entered the lodge, her
                  eyes fastened on Nishtagau, and glared fixedly upon him with the savage ferocity
                  of a tigress, while a smile of exultant hate settled upon her lips, when she
                  perceived that his glance fell before her own. But Wawpoosa presented a strong
                  contrast to the other. He looked only towards the ground, and his sullen manner,
                  and ill-expressioned face—stamped in indelible characters with all the worst
                  passions of his evil nature, and now undisguised by even the sycophantic smile
                  which it usually wore—rendered him an object extremely forbidding, and little
                  likely to excite a grain of compassion in the most forgiving heart.
               Just at the moment that the two prisoners took their places before the chiefs, a
                  slight commotion at the entrance to the chamber, attracted general attention
                  towards a large and powerful warrior, who made his way up to the front of the
                  circle of chiefs, and intimated by a gesture, that he desired to speak, if he
                  might be heard.
               His person, though very tall and massive, was exceedingly graceful and finely
                  formed; his ample forehead, and large lustrous eyes, at once proclaimed him a man
                  of intelligence, vigor and resolution, and his regular features and frank
                  expression rendered him eminently handsome. He was evidently a Chippeway, though
                  he wore no colors or other symbols of his tribe, and was wholly unarmed, except
                  the long sharp pointed knife, which is always worn at the girdle; but none could
                  fail to note the dauntless manhood of his bearing. He paused a moment before
                  speaking, and rapidly running his eye round the assembly, to mark the effect of
                  his coming, suffered his glance to rest for a single instant on Nishtagau and
                  Wawpoosa, and then began: his easy, though earnest delivery, and graceful, though
                  impassioned action, being most impressive throughout.
               "It is Pilawah," said he, "who stands before the great council of his people. Yes,
                  Pilawah the proscribed. Yet there is no blush upon his cheek; for there is no
                  deceit in his bosom, no falsehood on his tongue; his hands are clean, and his
                  heart is big within him."
               "But twelve moons ago, and Pilawah dwelt among his people; he was a great war
                  chief then, and was respected and happy. But he stood in the way of the evil
                  projects which the envious heart of yonder trembling coward conceived, and the
                  treacherous dog took council with his dark nature, and plotted the infamous scheme
                  which, his polluted hands promptly executing, laid the charge of theft before the
                  warrior's lodge, and caused his banishment—condemned, but not disgraced—from his
                  people."
               "So Pilawah went away, and traveled towards the setting sun, and after two moons
                  came to the big waters of the Michigan, and found the lodges of the
                  Winnebago's."
               Here the orator paused, and, glancing again round the listening assembly, bent his
                  eyes upon Wawpoosa, who, with averted gaze and stooping form, stood, sullen though
                  malignant, and reckless though abashed, an attentive listener, too.
               "Here," continued Pilawah, presently resuming, "the warrior learned the story of
                  the renegade chief, and had his baseness told by the lips of his own people.
               "Many summers since, some pale-faces came to the villages of the Winnebagos, to
                  trade for furs. They brought rifles and powder, and hatchets and knives for the men; and rich cloth, and beads and
                  trinkets, and dyes for the squaws; and they traded with the Indians, and made them
                  presents. And Wawpoosa was there, a chief among his people, and the pale-faces
                  gave him presents, and put rings on the fingers of his squaw. So Wawpoosa took the
                  pale-faces to his lodge, and smoked with them and gave them meat, and when the
                  night was come, he placed mats for them, and they laid there in the lodge of
                  Wawpoosa and slept. But Wawpoosa had seen the rich ornaments of the strangers, and
                  his heart was covetous, and wanted them for his own—so, when the morning came, and
                  the pale-faces went on their way, Wawpoosa followed in their trail, and killed
                  them every one."
               A strong exclamation passed through the crowd when the orator paused at this
                  point, and the culprit looked anxiously up, only, however, to meet the angry
                  flashings of a hundred pairs of eyes, and see an imprecation on as
                  many pairs of lips.
               "But the warriors of the pale-faces," continued the orator, "came to the village
                  of the Winnebago's, and demanded the murderer. So the Okemaw of the Winnebagos
                  told the name of Wawpoosa, and pointed to his lodge. Then the pale-faced warriors
                  took Wawpoosa, and tied him with cords, and carried him away to their
                  villages.
               "Yet, after a little while, he escaped away; and one night, when the snows lay
                  upon the ground, and the stars were hid in the clouds, and the moon was sick, the
                  Okemaw of the Winnebago's was killed in his lodge, and none of his people heard
                  the steps of the assassin, and he left no trail to follow. But when they lifted
                  the old man to carry him out, the knife of Wawpoosa fell from his robe, and they
                  knew that it was Wawpoosa, though he was never seen again among the lodges of his
                  people."
               The orator was now interrupted by an almost unanimous exclamation of horror, which
                  burst with one accord from every throat, and caused the culprit to look up and
                  cast a hurried glance about him, as if he feared immediate violence at the hands
                  of his excited enemies; but the expression was only momentary, and he relapsed
                  into the sullen, reckless bearing which he had borne all along. He maintained it,
                  however, but a few minutes, for, as Pilawah spoke again, a change appeared in the
                  prisoner's demeanor,—he drew himself up to his full height, and with head erect,
                  looked defiantly about him, as if he had now resolved to brazen the whole affair
                  out, and with a smile of diabolical malignity, folded his arms, and calmly beat
                  the ground with his foot.
               "Pilawah," continued the orator, "having thus learned the history of the
                  treacherous dog, would have returned at once to the country of the Chippeways,
                  with the Winnebago braves, who should be sent to demand the surrender of Wawpoosa
                  to his outraged people; but the snows came too soon, and lay deep in the woods and
                  plains, so he dwelt among the Winnebago's till the warm suns melted the snows in
                  the spring, and when the mountain torrents had fallen into the big waters beneath,
                  came near the village of his people.
               "What more need be said? The Chippeways have seen the baseness of his nature; and
                  now Pilawah comes before the great council of his tribe, and demands to be
                  restored to his rank and station among his people, and sit as a warrior chief in
                  their councils. Pilawah has done."
               
               He ceased to speak, and retired a few paces, signifying that he had finished, and
                  left the subject for deliberation.
               It is impossible to describe the impressive character of his oratory—his figure,
                  manly and handsome, his frank and ingenuous expression, were alone sufficient to
                  fix attention; but his earnest and feeling language, delivered in tones at once
                  sonorous and musical, which rose and fell in measured cadence, accompanied by
                  action natural and easy, rendered his effort a powerful and successful appeal to
                  the sympathies of his audience. Of this a rapid glance from face to face assured
                  him, and after a few minutes silence, during which he seemed to become more
                  collected and assured, he stepped some paces in advance, with the air of a man of
                  recognized privilege, and clapping his hands smartly together several times,
                  uttered a sound like the whine of a panther cub.
               At this signal, the door at the further end opened, and two strange chiefs, with
                  about twenty warriors in their train, all fully armed and decorated in their war
                  paint, entered, and marched slowly up the centre towards the dais, in front of
                  which they halted and bowed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE RENEGADE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Despair
                           Gives courage to the weak. Resolv'd to die,
                           He fears no more, but rushes on his foes,
                           And deals his deaths around.
                        
                     
                     —SOMERVILLE.
                  
               
               AT sight of the new comers, Wawpoosa's insolent carriage failed him for a while,
                  and he looked hopelessly about the lodge, as if her would seek a passage through
                  which to escape; but a formidable array of angry eyes met his own on every side,
                  and he turned again, like a baited tiger, to face his enemies; and though his lip
                  blanched and quivered, a smile of sinister meaning grew upon it, which came of
                  desperate resolves on mischievous extremities. Many remarked the expression, but
                  none suspected that he possessed the means to give it effect. But Pilawah spoke,
                  and all eyes turned on him:
               "Chiefs and warriors of the Chippeways," he said, "behold the braves of the
                  Winnebago's. They are a deputation from the chiefs and people of
                     their nation, to the chiefs and people of the Chippeways, to
                  demand the surrender to them of yonder trembling, treacherous murderer, regicide
                  and dog—Wawpoosa, the renegade."
               After which extremely pithy introduction, the young man left the strangers where
                  they stood, and, advancing into the circle, took his seat, without opposition,
                  among the chiefs of the council, who willingly made place for him where his rank
                  entitled him to be.
               During this, however, surprise had chained every tongue—the strangers, of course, not venturing to
                  speak until invited—a profound stillness pervaded the scene, and every form,
                     save one, in that large assembly of people, was motionless for a
                  time, and his seemed painfully instinct; for while all around him
                  were like breathing statues, Wawpoosa's features worked convulsively, and he
                  frequently shifted his position with a nervous and restless energy which he vainly
                  endeavored to control. But at length, Miskow, who had heretofore been, an
                  attentive and interested spectator of the curious proceedings, advanced slowly in
                  front of the chiefs, and signified that she would speak,—a movement which, the
                  other observing, had the seeming effect of recalling him to himself, for he
                  bounded forward to near where she stood, exclaiming in loud and commanding
                  tones:
               "Go back, thou embodiment of evil—back—and let a warrior's voice be heard."
               The old woman's eyes flashed angrily, but she answered calmly:
               "If Miskow yields her place, it is not for such a command from such a source, for
                  well the Winnebago knows she despises both; but it is because she may then stand
                  and look upon his utter degradation, and feast her eyes upon his ignominy; see him
                  bound and dragged away like a recreant cur, by the hands of those of his own
                  tribe, and hear his screams of impotent rage and pain, as they tear his eyes from
                  their sockets.*
                   She will speak, but only before her own nation, for it is not well that
                  her words should be poured into the ears of strangers, therefore, she gives
                  way."
                     
                     *The Winnebago's have a custom, which is here alluded to, namely, to bind and
                        deprive a traitor of his sight, immediately they can lay their hands upon
                        him.
                  
               "The old hag," he answered, fiercely, "will not live long enough to see Wawpoosa
                  fall, or else he's no true prophet," and then turning defiantly towards the
                  council, he continued, 
                     "A laughing devil in his sneer."
                   "The warrior has little to say. He presents himself to act, not speak—by the
                  first, much may be gained; by the latter, nothing. He is here like a chained
                  panther, whom his enemies fear—yes, FEAR;" he repeated, with emphasis, as he
                  remarked with pleasure, the indignation his words aroused; "fear—for he is a
                     man, they axe women—he is a warrior, they are cowards. But he
                  breaks the chains they fling about him, and spits upon their authority—defies
                  their worst hate, and cheats them—aye, cheats them of their hearts'
                  dear desires. Yet Wawpoosa has resolved to die—he will die; but he
                  will not die without a last revenge, nor will he die at the stake, and there teach
                  his enemies, by the exhibition of a Winnebago's fortitude, how a warrior
                     can die; but with his own right hand will he achieve at once his
                  own revenge, and his, own release. Wawpoosa makes no idle boast, for, behold!"
               And as he spoke, with a movement quick as light, he drew from beneath his buckskin
                  shirt a long sharp pointed knife, which he had by some means hitherto endeavored
                  to conceal, and, with a stroke so rapid that the weapon was not seen, drove it
                  through the heart of Miskow, standing unspectingly near his side, and then, at a
                  single bound clearing the space between himself and Nishtagau, plunged the same
                  murderous blade, through the old man's throat, before he could gain his feet or
                  raise a hand to ward the unexpected blow; once again the reeking steel descends through the air,
                  and, driven with the force of furious energy, is this time buried deeply in its
                  owner's bosom. One long and last defiant shout of triumphant hate was all that
                  followed. It announced the bloody consummation, and the passage of an evil spirit
                  from its earthly tenement—Wawpoosa rolled over on the ground, the knife still
                  sticking in his wound, a mass of quivering clay, before a hand could reach him, so
                  lightening rapid had been the execution of his desperate design.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               THE RETROSPECTION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Impelled with steps unceasing to pursue
                           Some fleeting good, that mocks me with the view,
                           That, like the circle bounding earth and skies,
                           Allures from far, yet, as I follow, flies.
                        
                     
                     —GOLDSMITH.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Well, well—the earth must turn upon its axis,
                           And all mankind turn with it, heads or tails,
                           And live and die, make love, and pay our taxes,
                           And, as the veering wind shifts, shift our sails.
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               TWO days have elapsed since the occurrence of the dreadful tragedy which so
                  suddenly broke up the proceedings of the council. The time is after midnight, and
                  the place, the lodge occupied by the white men beyond the elm grove.
               Without the hut all was gloomy and dark, and black clouds rolled their masses
                  before the rising wind, which went wandering and moaning through the tree tops,
                  like a weary spirit in search of rest; but within it was warm and cheerful; a
                  large fire blazed merrily on the hearth, and lighted up every crevice; the
                  crickets chirruped happily, and their lively songs were taken up and answered from
                  every nook; every object around looked pleasant and bright, save only Bramley, the
                  sole occupant of the place. He, gloomy and silent, sat on a bear skin spread upon
                  the ground; and though his hand stroked the shaggy head of the great wolf dog
                  which crouched at his feet, and looked gratefully into his face, yet the act was
                  mechanical, he was unconscious of everything about him, and with eyes fixed upon
                  the fire, remained in close communion with his own grave thoughts.
               He had continued thus for fully half an hour, when he was roused by the low growl
                  of his dog. A footstep was heard approaching, and presently after, Wood raised the
                  covering at the door and entered. He too looked grave, not to say sad, and weary
                  and worn besides—and, very different from his wont, took no notice of the dog's
                  caresses, but hastily laying aside his rifle and unbuckling the broad belt which
                  sustained his knife and hatchet, threw himself upon a pile of furs, and with gaze
                  resting on the ground, spoke not a word for several minutes; at length, however,
                  he sighed heavily, and raising his head, met the inquiring and sympathetic glance
                  of Bramley fastened on him.
               "I fear, Dick," said the latter, "from your dejected manner, that it is all over
                  with the old man."
               "Yes—he is dead."
               "How did he meet his end?"
               "Very calmly."
               "I wish I had been present."
               "I should have desired it myself, Frank, for I consider sider that the scene was most instructive. The
                  nature of his wound, as you know, rendered it impossible for him to speak, but he
                  expressed himself eloquently by signs; and when he felt his end approaching, he
                  beckoned Oconee and Winona to his side, and placing an arm about each, kissed them
                  repeatedly, while a tear coursed down his furrowed cheek. There was nothing of the
                  cold harsh chieftain in the man while he thus took a last earthly farewell of his
                  wife and child, and he reminded me of the lines in Young's Night Thoughts, 
                     
                        "A death-bed's a detector of the heart:
                        Here tried dissimulation drops her mask,
                        Through life's grimace that mistress of the scene;
                        Here real and apparent are the same."
                     
                   But it was not so after all with him, for as soon as he felt himself sinking,
                  and his strength begin to fail, he summoned his best remaining energies about him,
                  and drawing himself up, dismissed the two weeping women, and signified that he
                  would receive the chiefs and warriors who waited without. Once more, then, as they
                  entered, he assumed that proud, stern expression—that severely dignified look
                  which he habitually wore, and succeeded in maintaining it to the last. He died, in
                  the presence of his warriors, the conscious Okemaw of all the Chippeways."
               "So he died," said Bramley, "as he lived—obstinately exhibiting to the last that
                  pride which obscured the better qualities of his nature—stood in the way of his
                  happiness, and finally entailed misery, humiliation, and even death itself upon
                  him."
               "Even so! 'Pride,' says Colton, 'requires very costly food—its keeper's
                  happiness;' and here we have a most certain example of the truthfulness of the
                  remark."
               "Alas, for poor old Nishtagau; he was a man of many virtues and much true nobility
                  of heart, notwithstanding his failings; and now in the presence of his Maker, to
                  receive His dread decree, will, I trust, be mercifully judged."
               "Amen to that, Frank, with all my heart," said Wood, and the friends relapsed into
                  silence again; but after a few minutes, Bramley said, in answer to an inquiring
                  glance from his friend:
               "I have been thinking a great deal this evening, Dick."
               "And what, may I ask, is the result of your reflections."
               "That I am tired of this mode of life—tired of the people—their society and
                  customs—and now heartily wish myself back among my own kind."
               "Why, what has come over you, Frank? you have never seemed to be otherwise than
                  happy here."
               "Reality has served to pretty effectually dispel the romance which I fancied hung
                  about a life in the woods: the novelty has worn off, and I am tired now."
               "I did not think you were inconsistent, Frank." He said this quietly, but without
                  the least expression of reproach, or even dissent in his manner.
               "Nor am I, Dick."
               "Then what would you have?"
               "I will endeavour to explain myself," the other answered, "as inoffensively as
                  possible. In doing so, I must tread, I know, upon delicate ground—ground
                  peculiarly your own, and upon which you have taken a strong stand—but believe me,
                  my dear Dick, that I have no wish or intention to even hint a reproach, or wound
                  your sensibilities in the least. To come to the point then, I think, after some little reflection
                  on the subject, that our pilgrimage in search of more perfect men than our own
                  race—men who are freer from human frailties, passions and vices—is fruitless and
                  in vain."
               Wood rose, and with his head bent down, and hands folded behind him, paced to and
                  fro, while the other continued:
               "We came here, expecting to find, among men fresher from nature's mould than we,
                  men whose simpler habits and inartificial requirements are all supplied by
                  nature's spontaneous productions, that virtue and happiness which you
                  say, pertains particularly to their primeval condition—is driven away by
                  refinement, and consequently, rarely seen among us. In short, we came to find an
                  ignorance of, if not an actual incapacity for, evil; and a freedom from all those
                  weaknesses of humanity, which cause so much misery at home. For my own part I have
                  always believed that human nature is the same all the world over—that the whole
                  family of mankind are imbued with similar faculties and passions; possess the same
                  virtues, and are subject to the same vices; differing among the several races,
                  only in degree, as education has inclined, or the force of circumstances
                  produced.
               "However this may be, we will not here discuss; but let us turn back for a moment,
                  and examine the results of our recent experiences; let us gather together the
                  fruits of our pilgrimage, and see what we have realized, and how we are
                  rewarded.
               "Well! what have we here? why a black page, on which is written a long catalogue,
                  containing every vice that can stain and degrade a man—these, too, all in their
                  worst phase. We have seen, I freely admit, many fine examples of virtue, a great
                  deal of true nobility, and much that is admirable in manly character; but I am
                  sure that even you will not deny that, mixed with all this, we have
                  found a full share of the baser metal, with which our nature is alloyed all the
                  world over. We have lying, slander, treachery, deceit and murder; and, bad as any
                  in the list, ingratitude besides, of the basest kind.
               "And now the inquiry naturally suggests itself, to what end was all this? what
                  brought these qualities into action? why! even selfishness, the
                     very attribute against which, in your own people, your strongest
                  shafts have been launched.
               "You will pardon me, my dear Dick, for thus freely expressing myself on a subject
                  on which I know you entertain strong and peculiar feelings, and if, in the course
                  of what I have said, a word has passed my lips which touched your sensibilities,
                  or caused you pain, I sincerely regret it, and frankly apologise, but indeed,
                  indeed, Dick, I am tired of this, and heartily wish myself at home."
               He ceased speaking, and rose to replenish the fire; after which he resumed his
                  seat in silence, while Wood continued to pace up and down the hut, pondering the
                  other's speech. Thus many minutes passed, but at length the pained expression
                  passed from the elder's brow, and he stopped abruptly before his friend:
               "Frank," said he, extending his hand, which the other eagerly seized, "I believe,
                  after all, you are right; and since we cannot mend the world, or alter human
                  nature, it is better to meet the vicissitudes of life with what philosophy we can
                  summon, and receive, without repining, the world as we find it."
               
               "That's right, Dick; I am glad to hear you speak in this way, for it assures me
                  that on one point, at least, you have altered your opinions."
               "As to the matter of that, Frank, I am free to confess that I have received a few
                  wholesome lessons within the past few months, which have not been without their
                  effect."
               "I might have thought as much, for there is little from which you do not contrive
                  to draw instruction."
               "Observation is a useful faculty, and, when rightly directed, leads to great
                  results. In reference to the subject under discussion, I have of course been aware
                  of what was passing around me, and could not fail to reflect and draw my own
                  conclusions; I was not, therefore, surprised or unprepared for your remarks. So
                  far as the result of our pilgrimage is concerned, I shall only say that they are
                  not what I had hoped, and I am consequently disappointed, but this is all the term
                  by which I shall hereafter characterize the failure of my expectations. With this
                  confession, I will bid you good night, and to-morrow we will speak of your
                  departure."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               THE LAST.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           All was so still, so soft in earth and air,
                           You scarce would start, to meet a spirit there;
                           Secure that nought of evil could delight
                           To walk in such a scene, on such a night.
                        
                     
                     —BYRON.
                  
               
               THE spring had come again. "Twas June once more, and the sun, of a lovely day
                  towards the close of the month, cast his setting beams upon the valley of the
                  Hudson, to which we now introduce our readers. Here, in a little sequestered nook
                  below the Highlands, a pretty cottage reared its peaked roof among the trees that
                  clustered close about it, and almost hid it from the view of travellers up the
                  road; but on the other side its front looked forward, from beneath the sheltering
                  foliage, upon a broad and sloping lawn extending to the river shore. The structure
                  was Italian in style, and roses clambered up the trellis work, and hung in
                  festoons from the deep-bayed porch,—thehoney suckle wound around the pillars, and
                  clad the lattice with its fragrant verdure; and flowers, blooming in rich
                  luxuriance on every hand about the tastefully arranged grounds, made the still air
                  redolent with abundant perfume, and now— 
                     "At eve's witching hour,"
                   the sweet and tranquil scene seemed lovely beyond compare.
               And there, behind the vines that partly concealed the long piazza, sat Wood, hand
                  in hand with Winona, conversing with
                  Ungus, who rested on a couch before them.
               A year had wrought much improvement, both in Winona and in Wood; and while the
                  glowing face of the former expressed a trusting and devoted fondness, and her
                  graceful person (well becoming the neat and elegant attire which she now assumed)
                  seemed more beautiful than ever, the latter had 
                     "Cast the shadow from his brow,"
                   and looked the picture of happiness and contentment. But with the old man it
                  was different. He showed that time had not fallen so lightly on him. His hair was
                  much grayer, his form less erect, and his step not so vigorous, but his eye was
                  nevertheless as bright as of yore, and his heart as warm; and the same kindly
                  expression still rested on his face, as he now sat silently regarding Wood, that
                  had greeted him when he first met met him at the rendezvous.
               "And so, good Ungus," said Wood, presently breaking the pause, "you have made this
                  long journey from your far northern home, to witness the happiness of your
                  friends."
               "It is so."
               "Well! I am glad to see you," he resumed, shaking the old man by the hand again,
                  "heartily glad, and you are welcome, most welcome, to both Winona and I."
               "It is good," he said, in acknowledgment, "but the young brave—where is he?"
               "Bramley! Oh he will be here by and by. He lives in the city now; but I expect him
                  up to night. He is well, however, and almost as wild as ever."
               "He is a big heart."
               "Yes, yes, he is indeed all that you say, a big heart; but how do you think that
                  Winona has improved?"
               "The wild flower of the forest, transplanted to the cultivated garden of
                  civilization, has taken new charms to herself, and grown more lovely in the light
                  of her husband's smiles, as she has drawn fresh virtues from the bosom to which
                  she clings."
               "I know you too well, Ungus, to quarrel with your expressions; but indeed I think
                  she looks very well, and I know she is a kind, devoted and affectionate little
                  wife, and makes me very happy. We live, as you see, retired from the busy world of
                  the city; and, being all in all to each other, pass our days in tranquil ease, and
                  have no wishes beyond."
               "Ungus is very glad."
               "Thanks, my good friend. I sincerely believe you; and now you are here, you shall
                  remain with us, and share our peace and quiet for the rest of your days."
               "No!"
               "Why not?"
               "The young tree may be lifted from its native soil, and replanted, and flourish
                  too, in another clime; but the old hemlock, already withering at the top, would
                  surely die."
               "Well, Ungus, it shall be as you say, for I not only feel the force of your
                  remark, but know, besides, your nature too well, to attempt to argue against your
                  deter mination, yet you will remain at least the summer with me?"
               "Until the corn moon—and if the snows of winter do not chill the old man's heart,
                  the next fawn moon will see him here again."
               "I suppose I must rest satisfied with that—but listen —do you recognize the voice that comes singing so
                  cheerily along the road?"
               "Ungus knows it—it is the young brave."
               In another minute Bramley entered.
               "What, Ungus!" he exclaimed, in gratified surprise; "God bless my soul—my dear
                  Ungus," and, without more ado, he rushed forward, and seizing the old man, who had
                  risen to meet him, in his arms, hugged him with all his heart.
               "Why, my dear old friend, how in the name of good fortune came you here? but never
                  mind how you came, so we have you. Give me your hand. Bless your honest heart, it
                  does me good to see you."
               And then, turning to Wood, added:
               "How well he looks, Dick; but sit down, sit down, man, and tell me all the news.
                  How is Pilawah and Yoesie?"
               "The sun shines on them every day, and makes them glad; their lodge is large and
                  warm. Pilawah is a great chief among his people, and Yoesie is happy in the
                  presence of her husband."
               "So they are married, eh? Well, that's right. And how is my good, kind friend,
                  Oconee?"
               "The Good Spirit has visited the lodge of Oconee, and consoled her sorrows. She is
                  comfortable and well provided for, and will pass the rest of her days in quiet
                  case. She dewells in the lodge of Pilawah."
               "Lives with Pilawah? I am glad of that, for Yoesie is a kind hearted, gentle
                  little creature, and will make the poor old woman as happy as she can."
               "Let me, too, ask after an old acquaintance," said Wood, "what of that ragged,
                  good for nothing, well meaning rascal, Wiewe?"
               "Wiewe is a better man. He received a present from Oconee of a hatchet and rifle,
                  which belonged to the chief, and he has now built a lodge for himself, and become
                  a skillful hunter."
               "He was a curious creature. But come, Ungus, supper is announced, let us
                  within."
            
            THE END
         
      
   
