
    ----CITATION----
        Dowcra, E. H. (1819-1856). The Devil's Race Course .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6288
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE DEVIL'S RACE COURSE, 
               A LEGEND OF BALTIMORE. 
             
            BY E. H. DOCWRA.
             
            Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by HENRY TAYLOR, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Maryland. 
            
               BALTIMORE: 
               PUBLISHED BY HENRY TAYLOR.
             
            1854. 
          
          
             
             
               THE DEVIL'S RACE COURSE, 
               A LEGEND OF BALTIMORE. 
             
            BY E. H. DOCWRA.
             
            
               BALTIMORE: 
               PUBLISHED BY HENRY TAYLOR.
             
            1854. 
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            LEGENDS have at all times been recognised as containing highly-excited historical accounts of incidents connected with certain localities; springing into existence from some facts, which are not wholly devoid of truth, nor merely creations of imagination-such recitals are more or less interesting on account of their local nature. They are generally of a wild and superstitious character, yet, nevertheless, entertaining, and sometimes instructive when well told. 
            All countries have their legendary lore, much of which has been preserved from oblivion, and as there is a Legendary character impressed upon the ground mentioned in the following narrative, which may be interesting to some of our good citizens, I have thought proper to let it appear before the public. Originally preserved but for my own amusement, a friend has prevailed upon me to allow him to publish it. The locality is a well known spot to many Citizens of Baltimore, who will recognise it as a place to their boyish days once dear-a place where they have spent many a Saturday's afternoon, enjoying the sports of bandy, ball and racing; and I trust that it may not be devoid of interest, now, that the scenery of the locality is fast passing away. I think there is a morality contained in it which may make some amends for its otherwise hard and wild character. 
            It is a trifle, to be sure, probably not worthy of being recorded, but, such as it is, and under the above circumstances, it is given to the public. 
          
       
      
         
            The devil's race course 
             
                
               INTRODUCTION. 
               One Sunday afternoon, of a beautifully clear autumn day, and many years "lang syne," my old familiar friend Tom, and myself, wandered amidst the woods, that then skirted the south western suburbs of this good city of Baltimore. 
               The atmosphere, on the day in question, was deliciously refreshing, and our lungs respired with a freedom that seemed to infuse our system with a new life, for it is a blessed relief, on a quiet Sabbath day, to quit a town and all its working day cares, and seek, in the country, tranquil nature, and worship nature's God. 
               The trees were decked with all those rich and party-colored vestments which render their appearance so peculiarly attractive to the eye; and for which America's forests are so justly celebrated in that delightful season of the year. 
               We had passed the afternoon in the full enjoyment of those glad feelings which accompany a rustic walk, and which sensations can be appreciated only by the dwellers of a city when they escape for a time from the avenues of bricks and mortar which in cities seem to wall in and contract the pure airs of heaven, and to limit the expansion of the soul. 
                
               Being slightly fatigued by our ramble, my friend Tom proposed that we should seat ourselves and rest, ere we directed our feet towards the neighbouring town. 
               On looking around for a congenial spot, we perceived through the openings of some trees that stood a few paces from us, a circle of clear land which proved to be the "Devil's Race Course," for by that cognomen, my friend, designated the place as we stepped upon its precincts. 
               This was a spot, well known to many of the honored residents of our city, whose heads now rest quietly beneath the clods of the valley; and it still is remembered by numerous of our adult citizens now living. Often and again, has the man now in the prime of his life, when he was a boy and let loose from the restraint of his school upon a Saturday, repaired to this place to engage in boyish sports-and perhaps, if he was not very scrupulous in regard to his duties to the master, he may have hied hither, upon some truant expedition, at other times. But to the reader's own conscience I leave the latter application. 
               However, for the information of those of my readers who may never have visited the Devil's Race Course, I will add, that it was situated nearly opposite to the old Carroll Mansion, which is familiarly known as "Mount Clare"-and it occupied a gentle elevation of ground that rises on the north west of the Baltimore and Ohio Bail Road. 
               It was a circular clearing of about three hundred yards in circumference, and at the time the following Legend was related to me, was surrounded by a thick woods. 
               The earth was covered with a short, dark green grass, which was thick beneath, and refreshing to the feet. The sun was upon his decline, and the entire area lay in shade. 
                
               The surrounding tree tops swayed gracefully in the breeze, and presented a gay spectacle in the horizontal sunlight. 
               We seated ourselves beneath the branches of a giant oak, and a superstitious dread of some undefinable fear, stealthily crept through my nerves, as my friend remarked.-"And you never saw this place"? "No," I replied, "I was not aware that so lovely a spot, bearing such a dreadful name was in this vicinity." 
               "Well," he continued, "there is a Legend, connected herewith, which possesses high romance, and by your leave I will relate it whilst we rest ourselves under this old tree." 
               "I should like to hear it, proceed." 
               He began, in the following words, 
             
             
               THE LEGEND. 
               Although the grass here is now rich and green, yet I can well remember when nothing but strips of dry, withered, vegetation enclosed this area; every little green blade was blighted as soon as it put forth its verdant spire to attempt to refresh and beautify the earth. 
               Those persons who were superstitious, attributed this fact to the influence of Satan, for he has been seen upon this very ground. 
               For a long period of time this pretty spot was held by the vulgar, in such dread that it was shunned as being in the exclusive keeping of evil spirits. Such, however, had not always been the case, for, before the incidents which I am about to relate occurred, this was a favorite place of resort for the few inhabitants of the neighbourhood, and was styled the Forest ring. 
                
               There lived, towards the close of the eighteenth century, in a log hut that stood near the north shore of the middle branch of the Patapsco River-or what is more familiary known as the "Spring Gardens," that beautiful sheet of water which we see glistening off youder, an old negro whose name was Sam Jones. 
               This old fellow resided alone, with no companion but a faithful dog, and spent much of his time fishing and crabing-and some of his time hunting in the woods. His hut, a rude bed, some few cooking utensils, a little furniture, a skiff, some fishing nets and tackle and a gun comprised his worldly wealth-often, would he start out when the sun was setting, for a hunt in the woods, and not return till morning. In which excursions his dog and gun always accompanied him. And it was upon one of his night excursions, and when he had been out in search of racoons, that the following adventure befel him. He had been out many hours, without meeting with the least success, and had nearly reached home in an ill temper, when, just as he neared this place, his dog started a large coon, which immediately ran into the centre of this circle, and seated itself upon that charred stump of an old black oak tree. The dog, instead of following the chase, as he was wont to do, suddenly stopped upon the verge of the enclosure, then gave a piercing and affrighted howl, and ran away as fast as possible. Sam called after him, but he heeded not his master's voice, which circumstance served to make his ill humour greater, because of such untimely desertion. He loved to witness the sport of a coon fight, and never fired his gun, but when his dog could not get at the animal. Therefore, venting a curse or two after his canine friend, he raised his gun to the shoulder, and took a deliberate aim at the coon, which continued sitting upon the stump as unconcerned as if it was surrounded by friends and allies, looking the old negro full in the eye, and with an impudent stare. 
               "Aha! Massa coon, me shall hab you for certain sure!" inwardly exclaimed Sam.-Then, click-flash-bang!-and away strode the negro through the smoke to pick up his game, for he thought that he had made certain of his mark. 
               Judge his consternation and terror, when he saw the animal still sitting calmly on the stump, unmoved as though nothing had taken place. 
               A burst of wild laughter rent the quiet night as the coon addressed the old negro thus: 
               "So! ho! mister Sam Jones, you expected to have me, eh? but, never mind old boy, you only made a mistake in your aim-However, I am glad to see you, although you did shoot at me." 
               Sam sank to the earth, almost paralized with fear, and at the same time nearly stifled by the sulphuric atmosphere which surrounded him. 
               The moon, which had been shining all the night, very brightly, suddenly became obscured by heavy clouds-so much so, that intense darkness pervaded the scene. 
               In another moment, a bluish flame shot out from the old stump and cast a ghastly light around. 
               Sam's tongue clove as it were to the roof of his mouth, as he vainly endeavoured to utter a cry for help. 
               "Be quiet, and get up, Sam Jones!" harshly exclaimed a rough voice near him-"or, I'll send you down to--." 
               Shaking with affright from head to foot, the old fellow arose, found himself close to the stump, and beheld an awful object near him. This was the Devil.
                
                
               It is unnecessary for me to describe him, for he has been so often painted that I have no doubt you are familiar with his portrait; suffice it, that it was the very old boy himself-old Sam was positive of the fact, and never denied it. 
               The negro was a courageous old darkey, and scarcely knew what fear was, but he could not bear such an interview, unmoved,-who could?-therefore, he felt terribly alarmed for his safety, both temporal and spiritual, as he saw the Devil's eyes glowing upon him like red hot coals-whilst from his distended nostrils a stream of pale blue sulphuric flame was being continually emitted. 
               "Now Jones,"-spake the demon, addressing himself in that familiar style to Sam, "you know William Gruff, the fisherman-who lives in this neighbourhood-across the river. I have a letter for him, and have been waiting for some time for an opportunity to send it-you shall be the bearer, my fine old fellow, and here it is"-producing at the time a dirty packet, which was sealed with an enormous black seal and superscribed in blood red characters, which he placed in Sam's hand-adding, as he did so, "and as you value your life, and eternal safety, be sure that you deliver it to him before daylight-away!" 
               Without giving the negro time to reply-even if he had had the inclination so to do, which I much doubt, the Devil flourished his long tail in the air for a moment, and then gave Sam a cut with it over his haunches as if with a heavy coach whip, which started him off, smarting under the blow, with the speed of an affrighted buck. 
               As soon as he cleared the circle, he cast one hasty glance behind him, and saw the whole area filled with grinning demons, who were dancing and capering around the place in the exuberance of their infernal glee. 
                
               Away from the proximity of that place of dreadful meeting, he found himself again in the clear moon-light, and proceeded to make the best of his steps towards his hut; on reaching which, he found his runaway dog in waiting at the door. 
               William Gruff, the person to whom old Sam was delegated to convey the Devil's letter, lived on the opposite shore of the Spring Gardens-and on the edge of a very secluded and almost hidden cove. He bore a bad name in the neighbourhood, and was generally known by the appellation of "Surly Bill." Physically he was a powerful man, and in disposition he was so sullen, that the residents of the vicinity all shunned intercourse with him. He was much feared, on account of the ill temper which he habitually shew when brought in contact with any of the neighbours, and by reason of the immense strength with which he seemed gifted to sustain, if necessary his bad disposition,-consequently none of the inhabitants of that locality held any further communication with him, when he appeared among them, than the nature of business transactions necessarily required. Yet, there was a mystery around this man, that all were anxious to solve, but there was no person who wished to cultivate his acquaintance and endeavour to learn it. He lived, as it were, alone in the world-with no companions, save his own bad thoughts; uncaring for by, and evidently uncaring for any one. 
               Now, to Sam, it was any thing but a pleasant idea, to think that he was to go over the river to Gruff's at such a time of the night, and upon such an errand as that wherewith he was charged; yet he feared to disobey the Devil's order, for like most country negroes of the old school, he was tinged with considerable superstition. Therefore, after considering the case for a while, he resolved at all hazard to execute his sion, and accordingly went to the place where he had moored his skiff.-On his way thither, he recollected he had left his favourite gun in the forest ring, but he did not dare to return for it. It fact, he rejoiced at his easy escape from the Evil one; and nothing could have induced him again to have approached the scene of his misfortune. On reaching the skiff, which was moored to a log, he cast her loose, jumped in, and began to scull across the river. Once from the land, and gliding through the tranquil water, the old fellow regained something of his self-possession. 
               The radiant moon, gentle river, and refreshing air, calmed his feverish brain, and caused him to begin to think that he had only been dreaming. Acting under the influence of such reflections, he rested upon his oar for a little while, and then determined to turn his boat toward the rearward shore, go home, and retire comfortably to bed. 
               But instantly upon altering the course of his little vessel, a forked stream of blood-red flame ascended high above the tops of the distant circle of trees which he had in terror so lately quitted. 
               He felt that it was a sign of admonition, warning him to do his errand, and he then knew thad he did not dream-he knew also that he was fated to cross the river and fulfil the instructions given to him-or, to use his own emphatic language,-"offend de debil and be d--d!" 
               With a heavy heart, he re-headed his skiff to the southern shore, and propelled it into Surly Bill's cove. 
               It was past midnight when Sam landed, and he proceeded cautiously towards the cabin which Gruff had erected for his habitation. He reflected as he went, upon the best manner of approaching the person of whom he was in quest. 
                
               Arriving within a few paces of his place of destination, he suddenly became alarmed by the sound of an unearthly song or chaunt; and the next step forward disclosed to him, Gruff, himself, engaged over a fire in the front of his cabin, stirring a liquid which he was boiling in an old iron pot. 
               The strange sounds which frightened the old negro, proceeded from Gruff's lips, and were an incantation. 
               Sam's first thought was to retreat, but the advance of his footsteps had been detected by the quick ear of the fisherman who seized a large knife which laid upon the ground near him and sprang towards the intruder, with his weapon poised and ready, if necessary, to strike. 
               "Good Lor hab mercy! massa Gruff, dis only old Sam!" cried the negro, more than ever alarmed, because of the threatening attitude of the other. 
               "And what the Devil brings you here?" was the surly demand. A demoniacal laugh spread through the woods, as the name of the Evil one fell from the white man's tongue; which laugh was answered by an hundred echos. 
               Both fisherman and negro were alike startled.-After a minute's continuation the horrid sounds seemed to die away in the distance, when Sam, recollecting his commission, presented the letter to Gruff, remarking at the time that "it was gib to me by de d-, by a gentleman, who told me to fotch it to you afore de day do broke." The white man snatched the packet violently, and began eagerly to peruse its contents, whilst a sardonic smile played around his lips and gave a terrible expression to his hard featured face. He clutched his knife convulsively and moved a step nearer towards Sam as he read:- 
                  
                     "Blood, only, now is wanting for the charm,"
                   But he stayed his course as the next line read, 
                      
                        "Yet must thou not my messenger do harm. 
                        To-morrow night, at mid-hour thou must come. 
                        To the forest ring, unarmed and all alone." 
                     
                  
                
               Sam departed without ceremony, whilst Gruff's thoughts were riveted to the letter; regained his boat, pushed off for home with all the strength which fright lent to his brawny arms, and entered his own cabin just as the cock was heralding the approach of Aurora and her smiling train. 
               Overcome by the fatigues and excitement of the passing night, the old fellow threw himself upon his humble bed, and slept till noon. 
               "This is a queer story," said I. "Yes" replied Tom, "but it is not finished." 
               "Well," I continued, "I can't conceive why the Devil made so strange a use of the old negro-why did'nt he send some of his imps of darkness to Gruff, or go to him personally, what was the use of going to so much trouble, when it could have been all avoided?" 
               "My dear fellow, you don't understand these matters," answered Tom.-"Etiquette, etiquette you must know is observed amongst spirits as well as among men, and it would have been a breach of the Devil's rules of society to have gone, or to have sent any of his own proper subjects to Gruff, at that time, for he was not sufficiently far advanced in his incantations to have a personal interview with old Sin, or with any of his satellites; and you must learn further that, before the Devil can meet a white man face to face, some black messenger must act as a go-between to open a channel of communication between them. And Sam being the first negro that the 'old boy' entrapt into his service, of course he had to go, it was for no other reason. The Devil entertained no ill feeling towards him individually-any other black man who had been situated as Sam was, would have been made use of in the like manner." 
               "Your explanation, is sufficient," I replied, "You may have the case as you please, for I shall not dispute with you upon the subject; but let me call your attention to the fact that the sun has gone down; and I am not particularly anxious to hear any more of your infernal story here. Let us hasten to the city, and if you will sup with me, I shall be pleased to hear the remainder of the legend in my own room, beside a cheerful fire, over a glass of good old sherry, and with a fine Havana." 
               "My dear fellow, I accept your invitation. Allons!" 
                
               Night found my friend and myself comfortably seated in my apartment at mine inn, and in the verbose language of the law, beside the aforesaid cheerful fire, and over the hereinbefore mentioned sherry, and with the above referred to Havanas, (to wit, segars) between our teeth, he, that is to say, my aforesaid friend Tom did then and there, at the City of Baltimore aforesaid, and in the above mentioned apartment of the said inn, and at that particular time of the day, to wit night, take up the broken threads of his legend and tic their ends together thus: 
               For some eighteen months, William Gruff had resided at the place of our introduction to him. None knew who he was, whence he came, or aught concerning his former life. Professedly he claimed to be a fisherman, and did occasionally exercise that calling and attend at the city market with his fish for sale. Yet many of his neighbours hinted and said that they thought Surly Bill was no better than he should be; (who is?) and that what little fishing he did, was only done to cloak his bad deeds. 
               However, Gruff was evidently both pleased and alarmed with the contents of the letter, which we left him reading. There was more in it than we can ever learn, for old Sam, being the only witness to its perusal, abruptly left the fisherman's presence, as we have seen, ere the same was half read. If you are not satisfied with what you know, you must tax your imagination to supply any deficiency. 
               When Gruff finished the perusal and re-perusal of the contents of the letter, he dropped it into his iron pot and eagerly watched it as it slowly dissolved, hissing the mean while like an enraged serpent, in the boiling liquid that the pot contained. For some seconds a densely black and suffocating mist arose from the cauldron, then all traces of the paper became lost, by its incorporation with the other ingredients of the vessel. 
               Gruff, now put his fire out, and carefully removed his pot and contents into his cabin, and sat in deep meditation for hours. 
               The fact is, that Gruff had been one of a gang of buccaniers, who, for a long time were the terror of traders in the Gulf of Mexico and among the West Indian Islands. Once he was taken prisoner, but managed to escape from his captors. 
               A variety of circumstances led him to this vicinity, and thinking that the seclusion of the place where he built his cabin, would afford him concealment, he had determined to make that spot the locality of his abode. 
               To all appearance he evidently was poor; and certainly he did not earn the means of subsistence by his limited operations in fishing. He would often absent himself for weeks at a time from his home, and these circumstances gave the gossips grounds of conjecture that there was something wrong about this surly neighbour. 
               He had become possessed of an inordinate desire for wealth, and seemed to think that if he could amass riches, he would be protected by them from all danger-for he lived in continual fear of having his misdeeds sooner or later discovered-therefore he had made his mind up to obtain gold at all risks, be it even at the hazard of his soul's salvation, and determined to invoke the assistance of the Prince of Darkness. Having often heard from the desperate and wicked men with whom he had been linked in infamy, many strange stories respecting the rites and ceremonies to be observed to induce the fiend to hold communion with man, he gathered together the fragments of such knowledge as he had gleaned from those sources, and with drugs and herbs, and cabalistic rites and conjurations, laboured unceasingly for months, in vain attempts to call the Devil forth. 
               At length his efforts seemed upon the eve of being crowned with success, for the letter received by him at the hands of the negro, contained the information that one ingredient alone, was necessary to complete his invocation; and that desideratum was blood! 
               And the letter further directed him to repair at the following midnight hour, to the forest ring, and there he would have such information communicated to him as should ensure the means of gratifying his wishes; also, that until he had so visited the designated place, he should not approach any human being, but must keep himself secluded from the world. Impatiently Gruff waited the appointed time; and slowly the intervening hours seemed to pass; at length, night came, and twelve o'clock found him standing alone, upon the verge of the forest ring. 
               The moon shone beautifully bright; the clear water lay sleeping in the distance; not a breath of wind ruffled even a leaf of the old trees, and no sound was heard save the rustling made by the footsteps of the man as he trod through the autumn leaves which thickly bestrewed the earth. On such a night, one would have supposed that no person could have entertained feelings but of peace; nature lay in repose, and seemed to court man to follow her example; the very inmates of the wood had so done, for not even the tiny voice of an insect disturbed the quiet of the air.-Yet, heedless of all such soothing influences, which were as naught to the heart of this bad man, he had stridden with painfully rapid strides, in his eagerness to reach this place from his boat, until he stood upon the edge of the circle, willing and nerved to face any thing, be it of earth, or of h-! 
               He had anticipated witnessing something terrible, and had accordingly prepared himself for any sight, but judge of his disappointment, as he stood looking into the ring, to find nothing. 
               He was beginning to think that he had laboured under some delusion, and stamped his foot in a fury of despair; at this moment he entered the circle, and on approaching the stump perceived a gun leaning against it. Wondering at such a strange circumstance, he raised the weapon and saw a letter in the grass, and directly in the spot which had been covered by the but of the gun.-This was the same gun that old Sam left behind him, when he affrightedly quitted this place, the night before-Gruff picked the letter up and found that it was directed to himself; he opened it and nervously read as follows: 
                      
                        "If thou hast courage, take this loaded gun, 
                        Get blood, of some one who hath murder done. 
                        A magic ball is charged within its womb, 
                        Which fired therefrom will tenant the dark tomb. 
                        The blood thus shed, procure, and mix it well, 
                        That with thy pot's ingredients it may swell: 
                        And I and mine will answer thee from hell! 
                     
                  
                
               The reader shuddered at the conclusion of the above, for the last lines were enough to make the stoutest heart quail. 
                
               The beautiful moon and the far off twinkling stars seemed as if they were watching the earth like guardian angels; yet Gruff did not feel their mild influence. A raging desire maddened his brain and engrossed his thoughts. 
               "Get blood of some one who hath murder done," he repeated aloud;-then, after a few minutes deep reflection he exclaimed vehemently, "I have it! Yes, Captain Jack Reefer, you shall be the sacrifice! and I will have my long hoped for revenge. You little think, in you fancied security, that danger is nigh; it shall encompass you." 
               "With this gun and magic ball, I hold your life in my hand, and by G-! I will have it! Murderer you are! Once you betrayed me, and then I swore to repay you for the treachery when the time should come. That time has come, and I will be revenged. Ere the morning dawns I will be on my way to seek you. A long distance lay between us, nevertheless you are not the less beyond my reach." 
               Thus soliloquising he threw the instrument of death across his shoulder, and moved rapidly towards the river; upon gaining which, he crossed it and soon reached his hut. 
                
               The remainder of the night he occupied in preparing for a long journey. First, he buried his iron pot and its contents deep in the secret recesses of the wood, then completed his arrangements, fastened the door of his cabin and left the place before sun rise. 
               Gruff was absent for some time, yet his presence being undesired by his neighbours, his absence created no anxiety or care. 
               None ever visited him, or wished to receive him within their own doors. 
               A month passed ere he returned, bringing with him a small bottle which was filled with blood! 
               The murderer and his victim's blood had been connected for many days and nights. What a horrible thought!-The idea, alone, was enough to have struck the terror of discovery into the heart of any thing human-and to have caused the feelings of the man so to revolt against the same, that he would have dashed the crimson witness of his depraved soul to the bottom of some oblivious pit, and have hidden himself from the countenance of nature. But it was not so with Gruff, the influence of the Devil was within his brain, and he experienced no feeling of humanity-no fear-his whole soul was engulphed with his one idea-and he panted to put that into execution. 
               Near the Atlantic shore of the State of South Carolina, and upon a small island to the south of Cape Fear, a dreadful murder had been perpetrated in the broad sun-light of heaven. The victim was a certain Captain Reefer, who resided with his family upon the island. His body was found upon the beach that faced the main land, and a gun lay near it shattered into fragments. 
                
               The inhabitants of the vicinity were horror stricken, and an immediate search was set on foot to discover the murderer. 
               The search was ineffectual, for no trace of him could be met, although the entire island and neighbouring main land were scoured. All was wrapped in a silent, dark and fearful mystery. 
               As soon, however, as the first excitement which the tragedy caused, had in a measure subsided, little sympathy was felt for the murdered man. In fact he himself, had been a shedder of blood; and although he lived secure from the law and seemed to revel in great wealth, yet he was shunned. He had been tried, a few years previous to his death, in a neighbouring State, for piracy and murder on the high seas, and only escaped conviction because of a defect in the indictment. 
               The evidence against him was conclusive of his guilt, yet the indictment afforded a loop hole of escape through which his wily counsel successfully drew him. 
               And, now, this bad man's neighbours thought that he had received a just retribution for his misdeeds, and their indignation for his murder became merged in the idea that his fate was only a righteous judgment. 
               You may readily guess that the shattered gun was the same that old Sam lost in the forest ring; that Gruff was the murderer of Captain Reefer, and that the blood which the miscreant brought with him was obtained from his victim to be used in his infernal incantations.-With it he renewed his efforts to summon the Devil into his presence, and with success; for upon the third night after his return to his hut, and whilst engrossed in his diabolical pursuits, a fearful storm swept over the City and neighbourhood of Baltimore. Cleaving the over burdened clouds asunder, the lightnings leaped through the heavens and around the earth; the thunder broke over land and water with such dire confusion as seemed to threaten a chaos of every thing terrestrial, whilst the rain and hail in torrents rattled down, and the wind, sweeping through the woods, uprooted, split and prostrated the largest forest trees; and shrubs, and briars, and vines were scattered in wild dismay. 
               It was a fearful night! and in the highth of all the storm's violence, and when the lightnings flashed keenest, when the thunder pealed loudest, and the tempest waxed heaviest, and amidst a perfect whirlwind of confusion and of noise, caused by the splitting and uprooting of trees and rocks and earth, and the contention of the elements, then, high, high above the rage and tumult of the storm, a wild cry of agony ascended from the deluded man, which was heard upon the other shore. 
               At that moment repentance came, and the affrighted wretch would gladly have relinquished all the hopes which he had so arduously striven to realize, and cheerfully have welcomed poverty, so that it came without crime. But it was too late; he had gone too far to retreat. He had raised the fiend, he was unable to exorcise him; and he stood horror stricken in the presence of the Devil and his infernal crew. 
               The eyes of the prince of evil were riveted upon his own, and pierced into his brain as if they had been needles of red hot steel. He felt their steadfast gaze dart, hissing within him, and he shrieked in an agony of despair, too dreadful for, and beyond description. 
               As old Sam lay in bed at home, he distinctly heard the appalling cries. 
                
               "William Gruff," said the Devil, as he stept close to the rash man's side, and at the same time laying his hands upon Graff's arm. "Your rites are answered. You have summoned me in due form, to appear; I am here with my train of subordinates to satisfy your desires. We shall serve you for five years, faithfully. I know your wishes, and during that period of time you shall be supplied with Gold to your fullest desire, and that without again being troubled with our personal presence until the end. Wheresoever you go our supply of wealth shall follow you. Take no heed therefore for yourself, for your wants shall be anticipated. I shall keep my covenant, and so shall you keep yours. But remember"-a satanic smile curled the Devil's lips, and his countenance became awfully impressive-"that on this night, at this very hour, five years hence we shall be in waiting for you in the forest ring. It will be useless for you to attempt to escape me: distance cannot aid you, for in whatsoever quarter of the earth you may journey, you shall surely meet us then and there; so sure as it is that I reign in h-! From this moment you are mine, body and soul; so, until the end enjoy yourself and your wealth as to your own will shall seem best. Yet, ere we now separate, I will place my signet on your brow to mark you as mine own." At these words, he traced his forefinger transversely across the wretched man's forehead, saying "Till we meet again-adieu But forget not this hour, five years hence." At the touch of the evil finger, Gruff fell to the earth as though he had been struck by a cannon shot, and remained for some time in a swoon. When he revived, the storm was over-the clouds were dispersed, and again the moon, clear, round and peaceful, shone upon the scene. All was silent; but the evidences of the storm's power lay scattered every where around. 
               Gruff arose and looked about him. He was alone! Aye, he was, indeed, alone! And he felt an oppressive solitude that he never before experienced.-He asked himself: "have I dreamed all this?" But then as he raised his hand to his brow, he felt the mark of Satan thereon, and the touch stung him as if an adder had bitten into a vital part. 
               Agony! Oh, despair! The iron had entered his soul! He fled. 
                
               Old Sam told the story of his adventure to his neighbours, who received it as such stories generally are received, some of them said the "niggar" was crazed, some that he had been drunk; others believed him in part, and a few implicitly, for the old negro was highly respected for his truthfulness; the latter parties were induced to credit him from the fact that they thought Gruff's mysterious disappearance and non return was in some way connected with that dreadful tempest. However, whether the neighbourhood was willing to believe the old fellow's story or not, the spot where he had met the evil one became haunted ground in the inhabitants' minds, and few there were who afterwards visited it even in broad daylight, which facts laid the foundation for this Legend. 
               "Well," I asked "what became of Gruff?" 
               "Patience," my friend replied "I have not concluded. "He first went to Europe, as he could not bear to remain upon the same continent where his fearful connection with the Devil began, and in the gay capitals of England, France, Germany and Italy, sought enjoyment from excitement; for there was no peace for him in repose. His efforts were all fruitless, for although supplied to any amount with riches, which he spent and squandered as if they were things of no value, he was miserable,-If he attempted to mix in society, he was received with coldness and aversion. There was about the man an undefinable something that caused men to shrink from him. And yet when alone, his misery seemed enhanced by his solitude, which he now feared more than he had ever before courted.-He strove to have continually near him a number of attendants: he dared not sleep in an apartment alone; yet his slumbers were so dreadfully disturbed at times by awful dreams, that his servants would fly appalled from his bed side. He could not retain any one in his service long, although he endeavoured to do so by giving enormous wages. Scarcely an attendant remained with him over the first week. He sought for some one, to whom he might confide his horrible secret, with a hope of finding relief in sympathy. It was in vain! No human being regarded him with compassion, none shew the least feeling of friendship for him-he could not even purchase the semblance of it, a thing which is an every day matter of bargain and sale-he could not meet with a dog to love him, or follow him-as other men could do; there seemed no sympathy, no happiness, no rest for him-isolated, from the countless mass of human beings amongst whom he stalked abroad every day, bitterness mingled with every respiration that he drew, and agony accompanied each pulsation of his heart. His very wealth appeared to mock him, for he strove to divest himself of it, faintly hoping that could he exhaust the supply, he might thereby rescind his awful compact; but no, it flowed to him from an inexhaustible source. He passed from Europe into Asia. He courted danger by sea and by land. He was impregnable to the common ills of life. He stalked fearlessly through cities that were reeking with the plague, breathed the foul and pestilential atmosphere thereof, visited the sick, attended the dying when all others fled from them in affright, and burried the dead, when no other man dared to look thereon-hoping that the plague might infect him, and that he would die before the expiration of his allotted five years, and thereby break the Devil's covenant. Yet the plague would not touch him. He wished for death, but, did not in all the hardihood of his character dare to turn his own hand against his own life-death coming naturally ere the five years should have passed away, might give him some hope of safety from his impending doom-but death came not to him. At times, when he sought the excitement of wine, the mark upon his brow would become so swollen and so intensely red that it often affrighted the revellers from, the table. 
               He gambled deeply, and ever won;-winning at last lost its charm for it became monotonous, and yet he could never lose. 
               He endeavoured to stupefy his mind by deep draughts of intoxicating liquors, but could not attain a sufficient state of inebriety to obliviate, for one moment, the one awful thought that haunted his aching brain. 
               At length, finding all attempts fruitless to obtain that pleasure and security from care which he had thought the possession of wealth would bring, his feelings settled into a fixed melancholy. He knew that he was doomed, and experienced the fact that there was no way of avoiding his fate. 
               There yet remainded six months of the allotted five years, when he found himself, in his wanderings, at the Cape of Good Hope in Africa; for he had striven to keep as far distant as possible from his old home. Suddenly he experienced an irresistible impulse to return to America, and quitted the Cape as hastily as if he had been called thence upon important business. He embarked for England, then crossed to France; and into the deepest depths of the dissipations of the Cities of London and of Paris he descended, seeking relief from the gnawing of the worm that preyed within him. His cares had so worn upon his nervous system that his former robust frame had wasted until it became a mere skeleton; his hair had turned grey; his forehead projected heavily over the lower parts of the face, and across its numerous furrows, that fearful line of sin was ever visible; his eyes were lustreless, and deeply sunken behind his heavy brow; his cheeks were hollow and of a ghastly yellowish hue; the nostrils had become frightfully distended; his mouth exhibited such a rigid and vain attempt at a smile, that was repulsive to look upon, whilst his unshaven chin was covered with a long neglected beard. Altogether, an expression of such intense suffering pervaded his whole countenance, that no one could look thereon without turning from the man with pity, yet could shew him none. Such was he when he again reached America. Once, and only once, during the whole time of his absence from his country had he attempted to enter into a place of worship-and that was when one day whilst strolling through the streets of old Rome, curiosity led him into Saint Peters-at the moment of his entrance an aged priest was saying mass; it mattered little to the man what words were uttered by the reverend prelate, for the ceremony being in latin, Gruff understood no syllable thereof, but the truly religious feeling which a contemplation of this stupendous and magnificent evidence of the genius of Michael Angelo produces upon the mind,-the reverential appearance of the aged priest who officiated at the great altar,-the sweet voices of the choir commingling with the volume of solemn harmony which flowed from the grand organ, together with the general sanctity of the place, impressed upon him so strongly a feeling that he was eternally separated from all holy things, that he shrieked in the agony of his soul and fled-never, before, nor since was cry so dreadfully discordant and unearthly heard in that place of worship-the people sprang to their feet appalled,-the music of the choir suddenly ceased, and the aged priest fell upon the steps of the altar, for the moment paralyzed with fear. But Satan could not triumph there, and soon the religious exercises were resumed-yet, that wild, dread shriek was long remembered in Rome. 
               After his arrival upon the shores of his native land, he gradually approached his old home, without possessing the power to resist the inclination to avoid it. At length his feet once more trod the streets of this beautiful City. Five years had considerably changed the place; the progressive age was on the march, and strode rapidly through its streets and lanes, and over its commons, building in its advance commodious warehouses, extensive shops, and stately dwellings; and extending largely over its suburbs the evidences of the times. When Gruff witnessed the many changes that had taken place during his absence, he entertained a hope that the City's growth had extended over the forest ring; but no, that still remained untouched, unaltered by the hand of time. He crossed to the southern shore of the Spring Gardens and there found his hut going to destruction. In truth, a superstitious dread had surrounded its locality, and few persons ever visited it. Its door had been broken from its hinges, and lay rotting near the frame; the tall, rank grass, and noxious weeds, had over-grown its sill, and were spreading themselves through the interior of the hut; the window panes that had filled a small sash were broken, the chimney and fire place were falling to decay, and the few articles of rude furniture which the room contained lay scattered and broken about the floor, and half buried in the sand and dirt which had been driven into it by the winds, and accumulated therein by the neglect of years. Whilst the hut, itself, had become a tenement for bats, and owls, forest vermin and loathsome toads and snakes. What a feeling of gloom struck into this bad man's heart as he stepped across the threshold of his old home! His entrance disturbed the disgusting occupants thereof, and whilst numbers of the winged tribes flew, whirling and screaming around his head, several slimy reptiles crept hissing past his feet-But, scarce heeding such a sickening reception to his own hearth, he sat down in the midst of all this desolation deeply absorbed in heavy thoughts. 
               The old negro, Sam Jones, still resided in his log cabin on the northern shore of the river, and five years had whitened the wool that covered his ancient head; yet he forgot not the dread occurrences of the fifth preceding year, which in the interim had become from his lips an oft told tale. 
               However, we have now reached nearly the close of this Legend, for it was the night of the 25th of September of the year 17-and precisely five years after the night when Gruff had had his fearful interview with the fiend. 
               The day had been very close and sultry, and towards night huge masses of dark angry and threatening clouds piled themselves one upon another, until the blackness of annihilation seemed to overhang the world. And when the hours of day-light had been counted, and were passed, the low rumbling of distant thunder, was heard, as if to give the signal for the impending storm to burst. 
               The very domestic brutes, by the instinct of their natures, sought not only shelter, but companionship with man. 
               The fisherman had been all day at his miserable hut, deeply, darkly sunk in melancholy, and apparently heedless of the surrounding incidents. 
               About eleven of the clock, P. M. the gathered storm broke, and raged in fury over the scene. It was just such a tempest, as five years before, had passed over the place. 
               The old negro lay in his bed, unable to close his eyes in sleep. The atmosphere was very oppressive, and he became restless and arose, opened his solitary window, and stood looking out upon the storm. The usually placid sheet of water, before him, was agitated into a swelling sea. Lightnings skipped from wave to wave, momentarily illuminating all around. By one, very sharp flash, he saw, tossing over the troubled waters, a small boat in which a man, hatless and coatless stood erect, and with his hair wildly streaming in the wind. At each lurch of the frail bark it seemed as if it would be engulphed beneath the foaming waves; yet, onward, onward it came in the very face of the wind and tide. 
               In another instant the boat's keel grated harshly upon the beach, and the voyager sprang ashore. 
               Passing within a few rods of the old negro's dwelling, or, on he sped towards the circle in the woods; and in horror, Sam recognised him to be surly Bill the fisherman. 
               Onward, onward and onward continued Gruff, until he reached the forest ring.-Here, the evil one and his satellites were seated round the old black oak stump, awaiting the arrival rival of the victim, who, without staying his course for an instant, sprang into the midst of the horrid crew. 
               At that moment the storm swept over the vicinity with increased violence; the air was filled with rended trees, and branches, with sand and splintered: rocks, and earth and water; the lightnings seemed to wrap the world in flames, and the thunder to shake her firm foundation-then, then, at that fearful moment, William Gruff was clasped in the Devil's arms, and the unearthly shriek which burst from the lips of the doomed man broke frightfully upon the negro's ear;-he ran to the door of his hut and looking towards the north west, was nearly blinded by the keenness of the lightning. It seemed to rend the woods assunder, for the border of trees which enclosed the distant circle appeared to open for a second and he saw therein the whole troop of devils, and the fisherman in their midst, dancing with infernal glee. 
               On the next morning, curiosity led some of the neighbours, to whom Sam had related the above incidents, to visit the place. 
               There they found the dead body of William Gruff, burned and charred almost to a cinder, laying beside the decaying stump; whilst a circle of scorched and withered grass surrounded the spot, which, from that hour became known as 
                     "THE DEVIL'S EACE COURSE."
                  
                
             
         
       
   
