
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Wheel of Misfortune, or, The Victims of Lottery and Policy Dealers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6987
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The wheel of misfortune, or, The victims of lottery and policy dealers 
            
               TH

-'OR,-

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY

AND POLICY DEALERS.

A YARN FROM THE WEB OF NEW YORK LIFE.
BY NED BUNTLINE.
NEW YORK:
GARRETT &amp; 00., PUDLISHERI,
18 ANN STREET.

F

F

WHL EDP' 1nISoRTIThm;


THE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE.
CHAPTER I.                   The two first were Mr. Brent, a wealthy
South st. merchant and his wife-the young
Jr was Sunday-the month December, lady was his only child ; the young nu
the year 1851. Service had closed in Trin- was his intended son-in-law, who from a
ity Church, the congregation had nearly all junior clerk had risen to be the head book-
left, the pastor and clerk had retired to the keeper in his establishment, and whom he
vestry room. but the former did not remove intended at no far-future day to make a
his vestments. At this time three carriages partner in the concern to which he would
drew up in front of the stately edifice, (a ultimately fall heir, as the old gentleman
building erected in which to worship a fondly supposed.
Jesus, who on earth "knew not where to    Mr. Brent had the utmost confidence in
lay his head" at the cost of millions in the honesty and temperate habits of Charles
a city where hundreds of poor perish yearly Brennon, therefore had rapily advanced
for want of food and clothing) and their him and now was about to entrust him with
occupants entered the church. First came that which he prized more than all his
an elderly man-time had silvered his hair princely, fortune, his lovely and gifted
with the frosting of nearly sixty years. On child, her upon whose education and rear-
his arm leaned a lady a few years only his lug he had lavished thousands, his petted
junior. Close-following came a young man Many.
dressed fashionably and with good taste,  Following the four already named, came
and to his arm, her fragile form trembling the groomsman and brides-maid and others.
with agitation, clung a lovely young girl friends to the parties. As they approached
of about seventeen or eighteen, fair as a the altar the clergyman appeared from the
fresh blown rose crc the sun has drawn the vestry-room. and the fair young couple
dew from it. I will not describe her-dc- knelt on the crimson cushions before the
seription has been run into the ground by railing. The solemn ceremony was per-
a thousand scribblers---I will only say she formed. Oh, how serious in that grand
was purely beautiful, and looked as if church, where the light fell cold through the
she had a soul ; it is not every man or wo- stained window glass, and questions and re-
man that does, by the way.              spouses echoed along the silent aisles and up


rnE wuEI 3o ?  SMiFO  'TUi  on,
toward the lofty roof, did that ceremony    Nor I, my own  CIarh. e . ptuel
-e~n   Who would dare to think that vows heaven to give us awtonhenletttill'hl
uttered in a place so holy, so solemn--froni opieo ande et appro arat e  us l
lips which love had blessed-VOWS linking hour 0 death approachesbn.
ands where hearts were already hound,     ''i   + psaprothed h  -rsadierl.
iiull hi lightly broken? 'They cann ot! abou to kihr-am          -ful t lie
\talice can werk many a dee1 and hitter ane  to kishr-bout ha lips   t seiflks
wrong ; it may paint many a foulie, hut tie-fel ticdolistttt the laipn  to see
I cannot blit a record mate in eaven, 1  kiss-I'll drop the curtain on tis scene.
ltere, h"reafter distort the truth! It may
riumlIlphi tn earth, hut it will perish there also.
The etremonti aI cioiplted---tlhe          '   CIlA1''ltl II.
eertieatte  given-the Imarriage recorded
and witnessed. tind theli the bridal couple  A MAN about forty years of age, fashion
iventercd thtearrriages.  they were driven ly and eligatntly dressed, wearing hit ow-
it once to the houtse of the hridi's father ever too mi uchi jewelry fir good taste, buth
where sneh a dinner as befitted the ocea-1 that of te costliest kind, sat m a large
oil wia prepit' il. All tised conttelted root whih i was furnisht i ithe riche t
at hiappy.. 'he \ tung uite+. w1 hos efteko style, hut seemed to i an olice, for it aiis
hai lien pale during the trying eeremoi  surrinlded with deks, at each of wic kh sat
whta person n ith pit in hanl, but none of
tnuotiir, now sat in Lhi-uing beauty by her them  were engage'l in writing.  'They
huishant's side, and Mr. lirent, i-unaly very seemed to be waiting some newt s, for they
aha t'ti mimi, tii il and  pacil his oldl n
ab ae mn   Ind    hand . a ts e  is  jle dt frequ ently  loo k ed  to w ard  the,  d oor.  as  d i l
withiasihtr-ong can  t It is  a m    also the gent lemian first alluded to, who,
hpy sight-une thuatet d iito malwy at  seat on a eair, with his legs crossed o
r-thre  i   rhit inotalway        each other efre th gluwing ire. smoked
r             ,            *   his cigar with evident impatienet. 1 1rom1
It wit's the 'awe  .'lt'  siun)haid  gone  his air of  iiportance, one  might with  pro-
t  ts i it s an  a y  o  that  benighted  priety  infer  that he  was the  master  there.
eg io rt o  alletd  i .  - -rse m dan  t  ilig h t  h ad   hel  m o t  sin g u lar  f atu re  o f  th e  ap artm e n t
e   i  tit   cl edit   it ,  fibie'  W iw oecc tioth .   ivas. that  though  it  outside  w as  hr oadi  day
('h ar hs  t re i n  anl  his  ife  w ere  sea ls1  light,  t e  insiile  p ini niilled  w in low -shu tter s
itii a cosypliftle parlor int their us n ottagi, were closely shut, a lighted chandelier lhung
on f  the  pre et  t ii  in  oookl i  ov r  the  centre  of  the  room, and  over  each
The building had been tought, fitted up and detk a small gas light was bring. Thi foor
legantly furni hd. and presented to theni was very thicltly carpeted, so that a toot-
~s a wetltidig gilt b  Mr. Brent, who, the full could not be heard upon it. Large
hotter to lan his son-in-law how to depend hooks, like ledgers or aecottt books, werec
rp hi   had rstricted his generosity stuck ini openings in each desk, and on the
to is  et, koing that the salary of centre-table lay paper and other writing
ci arles-$')000 a year-was fully   sili. materials-.
dent for the support of a young married   "I wonder why Mr. Catlin stays so late
c      aie t least until an increase of family -surely' it is time we had telcgrapie news
choul t adil    -      - t ir ue i-tifi.  of  the  drawings  "i  m uttered  the  gentlem na
)h  ai Mac to t! i  the  hi titan dl, as they  whom   we  may  as well  name  at  once  s Mr.
"at     i ar        n  hand  on  a  sofa,  Grab, of Maryland. in facet, hut for thi  t most
tdy  s    s ,aif huapp n, is  eom iiphete- I  have  part  a  resident  of  New  Y ork, where  he acts
uthyIg  lse tof  a-k If"rootearth F'  .tfor the  Lottery  firm  of which  he is a part-

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERtS.

ner. his confidential agent for whom he   "Can't we buy some of them so as to
waits, is a Mr. Tullius Catlin, a keen but trust them?"
tiscrtipulous villain--one who has gradua-  "The fewer confidants we have Mr. Grab.
ted in every degree of crime, but through the safer are we. The new law bears hard
h   .k, except' in one instance, has escaped on us. I have a horror for grates and
conviction and imprisonment. lie exter- ,bars !"
rally apes, and rather successfully, the air - (Quite natural for one who has tried
of a gentleman. lie wears a breastpin, a them.)
irtet duotut one, which 'has been reset  "So have I, but we are safe from detect-
because it was the proceeds of an exten- ion, and if detected we have patrons in ofp-
sive robbery, perpetrated by some pals of cial positions, who, for their own sakes will
his, whom he forced to share with him on shield and aid us!"
accidentally discovering their success. lie  "That is true Sir, but how cursedl poo-
paid for it by helping to conceal and dis- these official patrons are. They never bud
pose of the "swag."  Two of the confede- more than a quarter ticket and then as like
rates are now "serving the state," and lie as not a couple go in shares on it. if it
will not be long behind them, if Justice draws they get something, if it is blank
only gets her due. liut here he enters, why they lose next to nothing!"
just as we are partially describing him,  "That's true, but in for a pesnny is as bad
coming. as they say "old Nick" does, when- as in for a thousand, we can use then i"
ever lie's called fir.                    "I hope we shall not have ocesion, Sir-
"Ah, is that you, Tullius," said Mr. Grab, but I forgot to tell you I introduced a bang
"we have been waiting a long time--it is up customer to old Ilinkel on Broadway--t
nearly half an hour later than yesterday, clerk in a wholesale house who has rather
when the new s came."                   run above his salary 1 reckon, as he wanted
"T'hiire was but one ticket telegraphed an advance on his own acceptance. I knew
yesterday--to-day there are seven, and with my pigeon, gave old Iink the wink and he
vf0' wi0ords it took some time to get it cashed the note, and before lhe left he sold
through," answered the new-comer. "But him a bundle of tickets. We've got the
you must hurry, for there are two heavy numbers, and we must let him win a small
prizes among the seven, and the tickets are snap this round !"
in the packages sent on here! Here are the  "Why do you class hint as a good custom-
mbeiirsr' er when ie has to borrow money ?"
"'Quick gentlemen," said Grab. as each  "Because he has the key of his employ-
clerk with a note book and pencil approach- er's sate, the cash-books to keep, and is ina
-d him- "take the numbers and be off to fair way of getting broke in so as to know
the agencies---and if they are sold find out how to use them!"
where and who to, and buy them in if you  "Ho-ho! that's the number of your tick-
can, it not tall im tIhe tickets. You know et, eh? I see-well you are a keener Tu
your dliy, and I how to reward you for lius. The man who gets ahead of you hay
doing itU'                             got to be awake by day-light !"
a    s a ch5 a clerk noted down the numbers  "Yes, and all night-too!" replied Catlin,
he left the room until the last vanished.  with a self-satisfied smile. "But I must be
"We imust invent a shorter set of signals off to look to business!"
for (i' work," sail Catlin to Grab, as soon  "Do you need any funds Tullius ?"
as they were alone, "these are too slow and  "No sir-have lots of them left, I have a
I fear that the telegraph operators may bank besides yours to draw from !"
suspect what we are doing. They ask rather  "A bank besides mine ?"
too many questions about my mercantile   "Yes, the bank of Cupid I call it-you,
speculations in the South !"           see there's a lady in love with me and Ibar-

f


8                       TIE WHEEL OF MISFFORTUNE* On,
ow from her occasionally-convenient isn't  "The doctor will come soon, Johnnyj,"she
said-"the M. P. said he'd go and get one
"More convenient than honorable, for of to come !"
course you don't mean to refund a cent!"  "'mso hungry mother !" whimpered the
'Certainly not, but let honor go to the boy.
'logs, it won't pay a tailor's bill or make a "I know it Johnny, mother is hungry, too,
landlord keep you in grub-but adieu-Im but we'll get something to eat soon. God
off-the boys will soon be in-there's Scrib- only knows where !" she added.
hen no~w !"A knock at the latebless door attracted
"What luck ?" asked Grab of the clerk her attention, and she cried out, "pus/h, it
;-ter Catlin retired,                 isn't fastened !"
after saved two prizes out of the num-  A middle aged gentleman appeared at
ex, one of seven end the other of two thou- the summons.
te r  o ne o s v en"A                      re  you  the  D octo r  ?"  she  ask ed .
'Good as wheat-where did you find     "Yes-is this your child : My God 'hat
.rem ?a place to be sick in-you must apply to go
'At Hong's-he was just going to sell the to the Alms-house-there's a first rate place
sry package when hinted to him tos old for the boy at Randall's Island-but let e
up on all sales. The old rat took, but he see--why he is burning up with fever and
passed ofl a package of the old bogus ones is nearly dead from want beside-why wo-
on the customer!"                      man he must take sonme medicine to break
nolagain,le is up to sntclhof-the best this fever or he will die in less than two
agent we've got. ie does outside business hours ."
eng hto sgake a first rate clerk to     "And I have no money to buy medicine
EReader  wil close this chapter, you with !" sobbed the w oman.
[R#V ean enough to know one way in which  --saw--psliaw, dout cry--tears are
th e lottery enar   t n g  to  save  the  weakeini- 'e,  ll  rite  you  a prescript-
hel l teanl defraud their victims, that of ion--there's a dime to buy it with-I'll come
lveag p    raudso therwictms ah back to see the boy to-night-now hurry,
;ainting private news of the drawings attendteesadu  tr   ve  nCnr~ls o
of that s 'hich i- madlepublic. Other dlevel- there's a drug store evil'r on Centre, close to
o thtwhichll fllo  and rest assured that you--be quick, your child's life depends on
thi  is not a fancy sk-tch-it is from .life.I it'said the kind-hearted physician, turu-

CIIAPTERmII
Ix the hasemenut story. or rather in the
liar of a hmackhling worn-out frame house
in Orange street. a wan and sickly-looking
wommi, ws atehed orer a child not more than
ix years oil. It' was her own. Disease
had left but a mcri' skeleton of the poor lit-
tie thing. ani the hand of death seemed to
Ii upon it. The mother sat on the damp
tloor beside the little rug upon which, co-
red with only a rag of a blanket the suf-
fering child lay, and tried to sooth its fret-
fulness. There was no furniture in the
room.

mug to go.
"Oh Sir, God will reward you-I-I can-
not!"
"lslhaw-pslhaw ! no tahanks-duty, char-
ity customer, used to 'cm down here-get
medicine--child may live 1"
With the last words the eccentric doctor
disappeared. Tbe woman put oin ai old
hood, drew the tattered remains of an old
shawl about her gaunt shoulders and look-
ing at the prescription the doctor had given
her, preparel to go for the medicine.
'Mother are you going to get something
to eat ?" asked the little sick one, piteously.
"Mother is going to get something to
make Johnny well !" replied the woman,
uore carefully drawing the ragged blanket
over his emaciated form.

TIE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.
"Oh mother I'm so hungry!' moaned the  "It's good-you're good aunt Harriet!'?
poor creature.                         she sai.
The door was pushed open without knock- "Oh dat's nothin'. Many is de time you
iug, and a egress entered. She was a has shared with me-but I must go and put
hideous looking being-she had but one eye, up my stan' by, and buy me dat ticket !"
her wool, it could not be termed hair, had  When the negress left, the woman looked
become grizzled with age, and raggedly at the dime which the physician had given
peeped out from under a dirty yellow cot- her. Then she muttered:
ton handkerchief; folded about her head in  "That was a strange dream-a white wo-
the shape of a turban. She had one tooth man got her ticket and prize-the numbers
left in sight, and as she opened her mouth were 37-21-73! old black J00 sells tick-
to speak, it looked more like the fang of a ets-I'll stop in as I go to the drug shop
serpent, than the tooth of a human. Her and look if I can't see that number?"
tall, long form was wrapped or tied up in  The poor child seemed to be almost able
the worn-out and cast oil finery of some one to fiathom its parent's thoughts, for it moan-
who had perhaps flaunted in high life-it ed :
was the ragged remains of a satin dress.-  "I'm so hungry, mother!"
But it was too short below to suit any one  The woman passed out, saying-"mother
but a bloomer, and as the she l thiopian will be be back in a minute to Johnny !-
disdained the use of trowserlets, her huge Don't cry !"
pedal extremities loomed out darkly below. - Within a minute she stood in a tow cellar,
"how is you an' de baby, Missis Owens' in which about g dozen negroes were play-
dis mornin'?" she asked, as she came in.  ing cards. Behind a rude counter stood a
"Thie baby is awful bad, aunt Harriet-- fat old negro, whose business seemed to
I'm afraid it'll die !" replied the woman.  be to dispense gin, tobacco, and some few
"I done told you that a week ago!" said filthy looking eatables, which was on a
the negress. -.But I jist stopped in to see rough plank or shelf at his back.
how you was, an' tell you bout my dream  "have you got any tickets left, Mister
last night. Eider me or some oder 'oman Joe ?" asked the woman in a whisper.
is gwain to hub a big prise in de lottery. I  "Jis' one-all de rest done gone I"
dreamed I'd been nmd buyed a ticket, and it  ^Let me see it-how much is it ?"
was :7-2l-73-aid jist as I got it I seed  "Seemi' dat it's de last ob de package, and
lots of gold, and then I thought a white dat you's been a good customer, Missis, you
oman grabbed it from me. But dat don't may have dis one for a shillin'!"
signify. I'm gwain to go and raise snthin on  As he showed her the ticket, she gasped
my ole stan' by, dis 'ore, and buy me a for breath. There-there before her were
ticket -'                             the numbers-"37.21-_73."
As she spoke of her "stand by," she    "Won't you trust me the two cents till
showed the hilt of a silver mounted dagger, night-I've only got a dime this morning,"
an old weapon which looked as if it might said the woman, trembling in every limb-
he a dangerous thing in her bony hands.  "please do, I'll pay you sure I"
"Come don't he downcast, Misseis Owen's  "Why you see, Missis, you hab been a
'bout de baby, what must be will be, dat's good customer,,but I nebber likes to trust!"
all. Iere, Ise got a drop of gin left in my  "Only this once-I'll pay you ten cents
,bottle-take a little, it'll do your stummik for the two, if you'll trust me till night i"
good !""Well, on dat terms, I'll let you hab do
Eagerly the white woman seized the bot- ticket. Gib me de dime-you look kinder
the which the other extended to her, and sick ; here, take a glass o' gin ; I don't
never drew breath till she had drained its of 'n stand treat, butyou's been a good cua-
laat drop.                             tomer, an' I'll do it for luck I"

.r


I0                       Talgw wnimL OF MIsF ImTUNE ; Ot,
nian swallowed every drop of the thing made a feeble eib't to stretch out it
fell glass of Ltid poison which he poured thin arms toward its mother, opened wide
out, and lu gtebing hoth ticket and presirip- its flue lips, gainp'd oICe r twic-'-itt Cy
un  ii  Ih r  tiod. staggered  out  of  the  den.  glazed--and  ill  ace  o er.  t  h od  passed
1 iii h 1 4  K Wit      o a 't+  irtd the drug  way from a e'irnltvlly cold world. hadl died
t  h  I  lh w r't  ms not  listening  to  the  of  ant  in  a  h(/riiticn  itfy.  and  the  l'olie ys
chetor . l  i  r  w(lyi   g i hd - t  was on011  f"ire d alers  had  got  the  hn t  dime  which  charity
n o at aitt i  to 'r  nt  a  i t  fe  ignns  fatuus  fihd  eontrilited  to  its aid.
light  lhope-hop' to ' uin a ptiie. Oh,   The riterntde mother with a wild 'hrieE
what a ecnit feeling  nunt  that  he  which  threw  ier 'l f' upon  the 'f dy  of her child.
O   fr Lt' ile milk in a mot/Ur's lireast !  and fainted. Too lat" -yet still the undy,
iton he' got baick ei'po  Johnny dil not iug love which a mrot herlae for her .rloo'opring
ctmni)taifl tof' hfiitni'i  f'l -bthit eluek were cane upon hei'.
lusxt 'i  i atll P i i 1e n 1(h1 e  wt iu't t iout. ulot  'ihe polieman  before  alluded  to,to Ink-o
a.-cit  l'e.lis lip    were hiluhi  and i l tt tn at the dor. '1lald her this, when sl h
were' Ii ~ it up, as if le' was trying to suck coin's too-tll c'ity will bury the child !',
i mO b' lrath. IIe did nit spiak, bhtlt his said the doietor. wiping a tear from his ey,
lrgF' eii's seeieiiid hriglht' erthan ever unit  ot 017+hindii, wi hile hi' extended a golden
:anhl l' iookid lo earn'stlyi t her, that the eagle to li liter. 'Then, without lotkiig
mothera t to rri fi it. 'V' atlf intoxicatedbac h eh'rr lit' leii''d awn ,t.
stewt.  he  knew a  d el n alfg   as  coa ing   N ow  w e'll  o  a'clk  a  little.  W hen  th4
covrkti     euw  a elt'  ulttlntt comill. hideonts old u'negrss ileft Mrsi. Owens, aftte
Whi . tie matter, myt child    she rhdihg her lrtami. fil shi' go to pawn her
dirk. as she s aid st' would . No--she hast
haJtiuinx " col !" said the toiy, so low  'iel to a toom blathfin of ld Joe's. where. 01
ohl' toi111 ihl  aill --heir  lii in.t signal gi   -'n, ho' jiii ned  her. *
S fii  atll  tho'  'sha w   om  her shoulders  "1  gus s  e  heell le   lte 'ftote soo.ii " ' she
atil  11m   it  or  r  him.  "'There,  that'll  sii  a ith  a  'huiki ' ; "I  know'(  that  are
warm. Johnny."-shel   ti-t'd the drawing  doctor 1done lft 1er suthin' to get medicine
w tf  til"  b t'onr  clock, and Johnnv shall  wid, and  -io I done  todt her adream.  She'll
have  nuiting to eat aint to make hutihe heei't"'lot't forget te utunhers--dey wats
'If e 'o li iivered--its 1 ')ye b''eane ioire' "All right, oe gal-yu're one oh 'eli
duhll,t it lidnot -piak. The uit.er began sure as doe debloil's white. Shan't I bring
$4o realize its situation. ita as dying. llor- you in a glass o  gi '
rlde--horrile---there in ilt an  filth!  "Wid a little sugar in it, if you pleats
She rituhed out to get the samce policeman Mista Joe?''
$o go aft' the doctor' w hl had itfore diue  "Got dat same ole sweet toof yet, c'i aunt
. le cane-glanced at the child, then Harriet. Well, as you haven't but one left
you ought to nuss it !-,
Dii yoni give it the meilicine ?"     Reader, in the above characters you to
"No-no '" tobbed the woman. "I spent hold two of the real ageit' of the wealthy
th e nt')'y.,'Lottery dealers who pass along in you'
bYes, for gin - I smell the cursed stuff midst, garhed like gentlemen, and as John
from your breath !"                      ton says at Iirton's, "treated as sich,with
"No--oh no-it 'ae for ia ticket. It will a high wallyation."
draw a prize at tour o'clock."
"A prize in pwrditiou-look woman. your             CHAPTER     IV
pild is dying
lie spoke the truth. The wretched little  A NomhEa ScFsix.--Do you obseicvo tbat

ThE TiCTMS OP LCT'IEIY AN) POLICY DAL1ntS.

11

grey-haired old man entering the broker's
oftie at the co'ner ofBrondway and -
street't  See by the erect gait, the neat but
old fashioned ut of his suit of black, his
neatly polisthi-bed s(are-toed boots, his hut
iroatter in the brim than fashion deianfs,
his cravat as spotlessly white as his shirt
collar, his hair worn long and carefully
comibeil back, and his ivory headed bamboo
cane, that le is a " gentleman of the old
ehool." lie is, the father of a gifted and
honored fianly, some of whoim i public ser-
vice have won enviable distinction-hle is
a giranifthter too.  ie has held high and
resposille offices. is a mean of honor, of
envictue, universal respected tor both his
heat and mini, as well known in Europe
almost as he is in America. We catlot
for a moment sullppose that a man of his
tumd and attainmtents could be so infatuated
as to behire it' false lights helix out by the
shark-like lottery dealers, to be the true
b'econ of fortune.  Yet one thing seems
'ather singular-it is that though the gen-
tienan called to has drawn large salaries.
and imlerited a fine fortune, lie has foi'
years been poor. and barely able to keep up
the neat and resp{ictable appearance which
we have described.
lit to the scene with which we opened
this chapter. and excuse the  digression.
Twice or 1r'  did the old gentleman pass
the door of the Exchange office which stands
at the corner of Broadway atid -  street
and nervously look to see that there were
no eunit)mers within.  What could he, such
a well known and respectable citizen, fear
from the world's observation. Surely he
could not do wrong to enter anit "Exchange
othie ." lie s0e1 at last that the coast is
clear, enters anti with a hasty step darts he-
hitd a green venetian screen which conceals
persons in the back part of the office frou
those who enter  ite front.
A sleek, jewelled. well-dressed middle-
at.ed gent l'man at once attends his orders;
Good morning Mr. M." he says- ' a
lovely lay for the promenade-fine, very r"
Yes Sir-the day is charming-I hope
your health is in a good condition 1" re-

plies the old gentleman with slow and dig-
nified tones.  Then taking a large old-
fashioned  leathern pocket-hook from an
inside breast pocket-lie took from it some
papers, then laying them down, he took
from another pocket his spectacle case and
adjusting the eye-assistantsupon his Roman
nose, carefully examitncd the aforesaid
papers.
Mr. Greenly will you permit me to
trouble you for a glance at the drawing
which caine on last evening?"
" Certainly Mr. M. here it is and the
'hene'f or to day--a splendid chance.
one prize of$4O,000-one of'  0,0OO-.three
of' i1t,000-iand lots of little fish !"
The old gentleman carefully looked over
the drawn numbers of the day before, ex-
ainied his tickets one by one and with a
sigh laid them down again.
All blank-all blank !" he said in a
low sad tone, and shook his head, with an-
other sigh.
Better luck to-day, you drew a prize
but a fe'v weeks ago, Mr. M." said the polite
exchange brother.
True-true !" but Mr. Greenly I have
in my time draw nine hundred blanks
where I have drawn one prize. I never
drew but one large lrze, it was my first, 1
wish to God it had been my last !"
Ah my dear Sir, you blaspheme our
good queen Fortune, if you talk that war
she will never smile on you again--come
try your luck to day-here is an unopened
package--only twenty dollars !"
" Twenty dollars-muttered the old gen-
tleman to himself. Hettie entrusted num'
with ten dollars to buy her a pair of satin
slippers, gloves, and a laced handkerchief
she is to go to .a party at the Gaylord's to-
night-an old fimily-'twill not do to spend
her money, but the drawing comes at four
-I can stay till then. I can surely draxw
hack the twenty from a whole package
and then there's the chance for the capital
prize-I'll do it, yes I'll do it I'
" have you decided Mr. M. or shall I re-
turn the package to the drawer ?"
"No, Mr. Gecnly-I'll take them-I'll

1'


12                      TE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE ;OR
try the fickle goddess once more-there is like to be garoted with such a iir cairns,
the money in gold Sir-very acceptable    Dear Pa        " (a kiss imprassd here-
currency, is it not !"                  from those luscious lips) "have you brought
" Quite - always at   par, sometimes my slippers, and my glovst, and ey hand-
dhove it !''                           kerchief     oh I've beeni waiting long
The package was opened, the old gentle- -I shall be late to the party- I've had
man with a nervous hand counted the tick- the hackman waiting for more than an hour
ets and deposited them carefully in the old and-oh my i'm out of breath-sit down
leathern pocket-book. Then, removing his Pa, let me take your hat and cane !"!
pectacles and replacing them with the book  " Can you not wear your other gloves
ia the proper place he buttoned his coat and and use'your last pair of slippers Ilettie ?
bowing low to the lottery      I beg his said the father gloomily as he sat down .
pardon, I mean the Exchange dealer, he    " To go to the Gay/ord's Pa ? Why they
Lurriedly made  his exit, first glancing stand at the head of the ben con / Oh never
around the curier of the screen to see if any -never-surely you couldn't have forgot-
sne u as near who knew him.             ten the things when I wrote the memooran-
We will now change the scene. It is night. dum down for you ?"
fn a neat. but rather plainly furnished par-  Tears now glistened in the eyes of the
br we behold seated several ladies. One a beauty, and those lips quivered while her
grey-haired matron, another from her fea- bosom throbbed like a lily-laden hike when
tures evidently a daughter and yet a mao- the storm is rising.-
ther, for on her knee sits a lovely boy of1 ." No, Hettie, my sweet child," said the
about hour or live who is patting her cheek old man mournfully,'Without raising his eyes
with his elubby hands. She toys with his to meet hers-I did not forget it." His voice
laxen curls and gazes fondly down upon his faltered as he continued-" you know I am
air brow, his pteiclh-l)losom cheeks, his involved in several petty debts, I was met
ocean-blue eyes, which shine as if they were this morning by a creditor, who threatened
set in a diamond back-ground. The other to sue me if I did not pay him-I knew he
occupant is a fair - yes, a lovely young would for he was heartless, to save the dis-
girl, 18 or thereabouts, a blonde, of medium grace of a suit I used your money, but I'll
height, full proportioned, hair brown as a return it again."
ilt, glo-y as the skin of a fawn, curling  The young girl sighed-the money wavs
'hort about a snow white-neck which would the last that she had left out of a draft sent
have won the love of a sculptor. But I to her by a beloved brother an officer in the
must hold m y horses-they're running me army who was serving on the western fron-
uto a deeriptiln and you know I hate des- tiers, but she arose from the scat which she
friptions.                             had pettishly taken a moment before and
I do wonder why Pa stays so late I" went to her father, pushed back the grey
-aid the young lady-her lips pouting out hair from his noble brow and fondly kissed
like the crease in a ripe nectarine which him on the forehead.
has burst from over-fulness. " Ah, there is  "It is no matter, dear Pa," she said- -
his step !" and her red lips closed like the "I'll stay at home and sing to you-i ex
leaves of a flower upon the first breath of pect it would be crowded and hot at the
the evening dew.                       Gaylord's at any rate !"
A gentleman entered-it was Mr. M. the   Oh woman-what an angel you are til
yams whom we met at the " E.rchange" man spoils you.
broker's office in the morning.          That night the recording angel made too
Dear Pa !" exclaimed the young lady long black marks against Moses Greeinly
Springing to meet him and casting her white, the Exchange, alias lottery dealer-one foi
full, round arms around his neck (how I'd causing a once honorable, veracious and

ESE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.            13

high-minded man to lie to his own child-
the other for bringing a cloud over the
dream-sky of a pure, warm joyous young!
heart, drawing drops of the heart-storms
rain from Ilettie's blue Eyes.
CHAPTER V.
In each chapter, so far, we have brought
new characters before the reader, and we
must do so until all our drameatis persona
are introdiuced to their very numerous ac-
uatintatces.
The next scene we will lay in the front
attic bed-room of a boarding house in Mur-
ray street, not quite a dozen squares from
liroadway. 'Thie room is fittedup as well as
the la'dllady can alord. She only charges
six dollars per week for the board of itstwo
occupants, allowing them the use of her
parlor to receive company in. This is very
reasonable, and it ought to be, for they are
two desolate old maids, and  that isn't
their fault. Were they old bachelors, I
would'nt ilanie her if she skinned their very
"ye-teeth.
One of these maiden ladies-Miss Aramin-
tha Peony, the elder, is in the room. She
acknowledges to being thirty she did so ten1
years ago-but she has never gone beyond
it-probably she ever will, although Mrs.
lonnifess the landlady says, judging from
her appetite, that she'll live a very long
tim. ier cheeks, thanks be to Gouraud,t
present a very healthy appearance-her hair
is very thick, curls, and is glossy and soft t
as that of a country belle who bathes hers in
the morning dew. It would be wrong to say l
that the celebrated Ciprico had anything toc
ho in furnishing the roof of the upper story i
of the tenement which we are describing, so h
we are mum on that point. Her teeth are
white as pearl. and regular as a christians
daily walk. Castle, the great dentist, has
seen and admired them. The lady was so s
elated at his admiration that she actually
presented him with fifty dollars as a testi-
monial of her appreciation of his judgment. A

Some envious woman went so far as to in-
sinuate that she had seen the teeth before-
but we don't believe they are anything but
natural.
Around the room on nails ruthlessly driv-
en into the plastered wall, hung many dress-
es-silks, satin and calico-of various cut
and style, some of them more gaudy than
true taste would justify, some of them sulli-
ciently expensive to infer that the strings of
a long purse had been drawn to effect the
purchase. This, in comparison with the ap-
parent scantiness of means which would in-
duce ladies to lodge in an attic, seemed
rather singular, but "singularities are" any-
thing but singular now-a-days.
A very small stove which would not hold
more than a double hand-full of coal, warm-
ed, or was intended to warm the room, and
close up by it engaged in sewing up a rip in
a tight gaiter-boot, sat the lady. Often she
paused in her work and intently listened as
if she expected some one.
"I do wonder why Malvina Ann stays so
long!" she said, impatiently. "The draw-
ing must have come-if we don't get a prize
this time, we'll be bothered dreadfully till
we get our money next quarter-that is
three weeks off yet. I can't do three weeks
without money-we must have a little just
to keep up appearances    Malvinamust,
for that Mr. Townsend is worth catching,
and he seems particularly smitten with her!
Ah, that's her step, I'm sure it is-I hear it
on the stairs, and she's singing ; oh, I know
we've drawn a prize !"
The door opened and Miss Malvina Ann.
he youngest Miss Peony, entered the room.
Snatching off her bonnet she threw it on the
ow, narrow bed whilh stood in one corner
of the room, and out of breath from hurry-
ng up stairs and singing, sat down beside
ier sister.
"Well-the prize ?" asked the latter.
"Oh let me get breath !" cried Malvina-
then I'll tell you-luck has changed, we'll
oon be up again n
While she draws breath we'll glance at
Malvina. She is five years younger than
ramintha-and looks ten, at least. She


TIHES VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AN) POLICY DEALR:I .          1

14                       Tur1 WuEEL OF MISFORTUNE ; OR,
would p  ii a crowd for 28 or 30. She keep me in suspense, you know he loves
too is nihieli indebted to Gouratud and other me, he said so the last time we m't.  What
beautify jug benefactors for her juvenility, did he say ?"
but it is uigallant in mne to expose these  "lie asked Inc if I liked grapes--I said
tnatters. I'll -hortein sail and heave too.  yes! "There are some fine ones at Tay-
"The prize--dear Malvina Ann, the prize! lor's," he added. "I-ve just eat two hunch-
how much is it,-tell thousand :" asked es!''
Aramniitha.                               "And he didn t ask you to take any, nor
'Oh no, sister, our luck has changed-you send me even a single bunch?'"
know we( ha ven t drawn a prize since we "No, sister !
drew tie' last quarter's fund of our annuity,  "Theti he's a brute-Ill discard him if
befm'e this one !"-                           ifhe ever comes to see me again. Oh.
"'That is true, and we have spent our last these men, these men! They're all brutes!'
mwiey for thischance aid can draw no more  "Except yi Townsend !"
for three wnecks yet-but the prize-how    "Maybe hell be like the rest!"
munch is it ''                            "I don't think so. sister Aranintha, but
"Only eleven dollars, percentage ott', Ara- let's go to tea-Mrs. Bonnifess hates to
mintha, antd it wavso little, we only had one have to wait for her boarders when the
Number or an eighth. vonusee, the' I thought victuals are hot
we'd better risk all, so I've bought more  Reader, those two old maids, whom on
tickets with it. That dear nice man. Mr. most sunny afternoons you can see, dressed
Greenily. says he's sure we'll hit the mark alike always, promenading Broadway, live
next tim' ''                             on an annuity  t fsix hundred dollars per
''Oh, how poi'vokiig, Malvina. here I year, more than a third of which they spend
am, obliged to mend my own gaiters-I with the lottery dealers. They deny the'm-i

needed i new pair-you ought to have con-
5ulted met lhir' you bought again
"But, sister. I fit so sure that when ourj
luck once changed we would win a big
prize. So I sacrificed this trifle.  Don't
blame ni-I am playing for a large stake
-Mr. Townusend thinks I am rich, he does
not dream  that we lodge in an attic, he
thinks lbecau'e we dress well that we are
better off than we are--I must keep it up;
to do so must have money. Ie is rich;
once won, I can make it all right for us
both through lift !"
"Sister." said Aramintha, "you are right.
I was ainnmoyed amidi unpatient-I am tired of
living iii such a way as we are. I hope to-
morrow's drawing will verify your prophe-
cy of good luck
"I feel ure it will-but there's the tea

selves comforts, live in unhealthy quarters.
and manreuvre in every way to keep up
appearances, while they watch and hope for
the prize they never get. They are among
the "victims" on a small scale. We will
again drop our curtain and change for the
next act.
CHAPTER VII.
WE have seen Mr. Brent and his son-i,-
law at home in their respective residences
and we will now take a look at then in
their counting room. It is near three, and
their closing hour approaches, for in our
wholesale houses little business is done af-
ter banking hours are over. Charles is

ielh. It's ix up ani go down-by the way, closing his cash account for the day, and
I saw Wheeler to-day."                 with a self-satisfied air Mr. Brent is pacing
"Wheler? oh, what did he say? He to and fro-over the carpeted rorm. He
ant hii love to m., of course?''        looks as if he felt pleased with the opera-
" o. iter!                          tions of the day.
"Then what id he say ? come, don't.    Outside, the porter and two or three

salesmen are busy arranging the store and
ware-room for closing.
"You and Mary were at the opera, last
eight, you told me this moriling, did you
iot, Charley?" asked Mr. Brent, after Bren
non closed his cash hook and ledger, and
locked them in the safe.
"Yes, father-Mary is so fond of music,
and I wish to do all I can to make her
happy
"You are a kind, good husband, Charley I
You were at the theatre the night before,
were you not -
'.Yes father-we were at Burton's !"
"These evening trips over to town must
be very expensive, Charles, considering car-
riage hire, tickets, et cetera, ci ?''
'Rather, father, but Mary is fond ot
amusement, and 1 tear shell get lonesome
it is so recently that she has left home, you
know' -"
"-Poh, boy, she can never get lonesome
in your little box of a cottage. I got hir
one of Chickering's best pianos, andt well
-ie knows how to use it. I'd rather hear
her sing oe of those sweet English ballads
bthai to listen to a thousand of your Italian
operatic schire-chendoes. She has a ine
guitar, and with you by her side, and books
aini music, she can never he lonesome !"
''e are very happy, father !"
''Ion  t loit it. my boy, and I hope
you'll always be so-but I like to see mar
rid folks look for happiness at home rather
than abroad. And Charley, I don't want
to see you let your expenses go ahead of
your salary, or scrimp you in your enjoy
int at home. You have enough to live
'otortably. on, but six or eight dollars a
night on tariage hire and opera tickets wtill
emipty your purse, my boy'-never go be-
'yondtii your d epth, it has ruined many a good
man! But take my advice as I mean it,
my son, kindly. I must go to dinner, now
-it is about closing time, give my love tot
Mary, when you go over home; good day.
my boy, good day !"
"I wonder if he can suspect anything?"
muttered Charles, after his father-in-law
'departed  "lie must, or he wouldn't be so

special and particular in his advice, it is
true that I am going beyond depth, and if
my luck doesn't change. God only knows
when or where I shall touch bottom. There
is that two hundred dollar acceptance comes
due at ilinkel's in the morning. I must
borrow it from the safe, and I dare not
enter it on the books, for I've already over-
drawi my salary, and the old man still
keeps up his habit of looking at the books at
the end of every month. I believe he'd do
it if lie had the angel Gabrielfor a book-
keeper. I'll borrow three hundred and pay
ofl' my debt, and with the balance I'll tiy
I)ame Fortune once mue. My very first
ticket was a prize, that was a good omen-
but all since have been blank. Bit heii
wheel is ever turning. they say, it may turn
me up a few thousands, and thenil 11 risk
no more !"
Brenuon unlocked the heavy door of the
sate, and taking out a little drawer counted
from a pile of' bills in it, the sum lie had
mentioned. As he was about returning the
drawer to its place he heard the door behind
hin.open, and ste)s approaching. his face
paled and his limbs shook witl agitation.
lie was conscious of'wrong.
"hallo, Mr. Brennon, busy yet? It's at
ter three--thought I'd call in for a little
chat 1''
Brennon recognized the voice of his new-
found but already (ilte intimate friend,
Tullius CJatliii. lteco'veriug himself, he put
in the drawer, and closing the door of the
safe, turned to shako the extended hand of'
his friend.
"I am glad to see you," he said. "I was
just thinking of you and that acceptance
which comes due in the morning, on which
you were so good as to become security. I
have just taken out the money to pay it,
I'll take it up early in the morning !"
"Oh pshaw, imy boy, if it isn't the most
convenient thing in the world for you, you
needn't pay it nOw, I can  make old Ihink
renew it or can let you have funds myself.
I've just heard from my consignees in Ha-
vana. My last cargo of flour has been a
great spec. I shall clear at least eight

i'


T
}
F
f2
P

ers-vyou've lied wel! '
''Net Overly and atboeve - the mutton was
unler-done, the heel roasted till the juices
were lry, soup and fish were dispensed with,
and there was no oil for the salad!
". th the leathentt i  Y oluimst comie and
top oil with ie at Delmoniceo's.  Well take
a bottle of his anti-Jersey Hleidsick. or some
of Leongtweorth's Catawba and a few birds-
his cek loes up patridge i toast superbly.
Come. I'll take no refusal my dear fellow I"
''Wehli, Preno   you're so pressing that
'tis hsard to resist
"By the w     tyCatlin, isn't HUiukel open
yet?"

let them go. and pay a visit on our own ac-
count to two more of the actors in our life-
drama.
CIIAPTER VIII.
IN the third story of a brick houe, one of
the class commonly called "tenant houses,"
where rooms are rented to famtilies, in a lit-
the back room, sat an elderly lady and a
younger one, The youngest might be eigh-
teen or thereabouts, and she was very beau-
tiful. Her hair was dark and glossy, her

16                       THE WHEEL OF MISoRTUNE; )OR,
thousand dollars on it, I struck the market  "Yes, I expect so, those up-town exchange
at the last ebb and took the first of the flood men seldom close before dark-they who
tide-got the Dons that time! There wasn't are in the wheel-of-fortune line, make a good
a hundred barrels in the town when my deal I'm told, out of mechanics and laborers
venture arrived ; prices were up, and my who stop in and buy tickets as they gohome
flour sold at the highest mark !"      from their work !"
"Oh it is convenient for me to pay that lit-  "Well, let's go up there a few minutes--1
tie matter, and I'm glad to hear of your want to have my mind at rest and pay him
good fortune. Then let's adjourn to Del- the money I borrowed'!''
monico's and have a bite and a glass of wine,  "Poh, don't trouble yourself about such a
I haven't tined yet."                   little matter this evening. I wouldut have
"I)on't you dine at home ?"           let you borrowed from hInt. only I had just,
"Y s. generally. but 1'd rather take a bite made a heavy advance on a speculation
over here to-day. By the way dine with ine which will net inc at least one hundred per
Sunday, en famti/le, you know, plainly, for cent F'
I'm but a new house-keeper. Coelti say yes,  'So you said, but all's right. I expect
I shall be happy to introduce you to my the old man will soon make me a partner,
young bride, the best and prettiest wife im and then Ill not have to depend on the beg-
Brooklyn ! you'll come ?"               garly salary of two thousand a year !'
'It will indeed altfrd n pleasure, but to-  (atlin smiled. There was nienaig tin /ii
day yot must excuse me, I've already dined. smile. lie remembered the glmce which he
At the unatshionable hour of one, I acknowl- had bestowed on the contents et the safe but
edge. but it was with an old friend, a plain a fow moments before, and he Iew that
countrytt a sort of a ian, but he has two lirennon had taken itoney from it which did
pretty daughters, and i stile to give them  not belong to him. As the devil laughs
twenty or thirty thousand a piece when they when a fresh soul is atred in his iiet, so
uarry :''                              did the arch-villain exult over the victim
'"I ha -ha-good excuse! I suppose the whom he was drawing on to ruin.
daugIhters were brought i like rare fruit,  "Come-I'l direct the boysto shut up the
with 1 lie desert I"                  store and we'll have a little fun this even-
', bithe contrary, they came in with the' ing!I'contimued lirennon--"and remember
solids, that is ns ithathe old gentleman and you must dine at hyit house on Sunday-we
his it . w hose united weight can't be less dine at four, recollect. You have my ad-
than six humndred !,'                  dress.
"ix iumdred'- -They must be good liv-  The ttwo young men sadlied fourth and we'll

TUE VICTIMS OF LOTTE
eyes of an ocean blue, her Grecian feature
regular as a picture, and one of the most
sweetly Iormed mouths that ever tempted
poor mortal into the "subjective mood, to
kiss.' In figure, rather tall, not full, but
elegantly proportioned, lithe and graceful
as the willow which sways to the breeze over
the flower-fringed brook. In very truth, a
lovelier girl than Constance Morley could
not Le found in all Gotham. Her cheeks
were rather pale, and her long dark eye-
lashes, as her eyes were cast down toward
the sewing-work in her lap, cast their shad-
ows on them, but the skin was transparent
as wax. IIcr brow was high, her whole cast
of countenance betokened intellect and re-
finenent. The manner and appearance of
her mother, for such was the relationship of
the eiler lady, betokened the finished and
well-bied lady. But the scanty, yet neat
furniture of the room, betokened poverty.---
The lithe cooking stove in the room, the bed
in one corner with its snow-white counter-
pane,t'he wash tub in another corner and sonic
few articles of clothing, hung near the stove
to dry, all gave evidenit token that this was
their only room and that they did their own
house- work. loth the ladies were dressed
in deep mourning, in cheap stuff , but their
aplarel was so neatly made up and so well
suited to their line figures that it did not
look Conimon.
True gentility will always discover itself,
no miater how it is garbed. You cannot
make a gentleman of t clod-hopper, no
more than you can make a kid glove out of
cow-bisle, nor can you by any change of
circumntances make a gentleman by birth
and eucation forget his position and ac-
q1uiremen ts.
The ladies were engaged in sewing, ma-
king up clothing for some of the down-town
stores. They both locked weary, the elder
more especially.
,    I wih we were both dead, Constance !"
shte said fretfully, "It is killing me to think
that you who was born to wealth, reared in
the b   t of society, should be wasting the
tiower of your days here at low labor, when
your in feriors are enjoying the world."
t              2

RY AND POLICY DEALERS.                         IT
s    "Youforget yourself, denT mother-you
t have passed a whole life-time in ease and
affluence, it is but a little over a year since
we were left poor and desolate, since my
t poor father driven to desperation           "
1    "Child, child   don't speak of hint!       I
* cannot bear to think of him-I see even in
waking dreams his ghastly corse before me!
Oh they said he killed himself, but it was
the accursed lottery dealers that did it!
- But let us not think of it now-sing to me
love, sing and try to drive these crushing
thoughts from my heart !"
.
"I will dear mother, I will sing you the
song I composed last night.        It is but a
poor production, but it has one merit which
many a prettier song never had, it came
from the heart of its author I"
In a voice low as the coo of a ring-dove
when its mate is near, but clear as the lark
when having drank of the morning dew it
rises heavenward to sing its matin hymn of
praise to HtiM who will not let a sparrow
tall to the ground "unheeded," she sang
these words.
Ceicer up, my DEAR mother, oh cheer up I pray,
The clouds which surround us will soon pass away,
The sunshine wileglow
And resl flowers grow
where the woe-storm hath beat so dark and so fast ;
Oh, cheer up my mother, our Might will not last.
Repine not my mother, we've a FATHER ahove,
'The orphan and widow IHE shields with his love,
In uiss let us trust,
lIe's gracious and just I
Oh cheer up my mother and banish your fears,
The Sun of the future will dry up your team.
Then the past we'll forget, the present enjoy,
A pleasure that contrast will free from alloy,
The trouble that's o'er.
cain harm us no more,
Then cheer up dear mother, the clouds break away,
Oh cheer up and welcome the dawn orour day !
"Oh how I wish it glimpse of prosperity's
day would come !" sighed the elder.
"It will, dear mother, I feel a presenti-
ment that some good fortune is in store for
us: yes, and near at hand I"
"heaven grant it be so, for much we need
it !" sighed the mother.
A knock at the door startled them. Con-
stance rose to open it and as we might in-

E

i


TI11 WHEEL OF MT5FO; TUNE ? oii,

rude, we'll leave them to rec-ive their vis-j
itor or visitors whoever they may be.     f
CIIA'TEt   IX .

not make him look any poale;. A hige
tanding collar is supported 1 y a yelow
eravat-his blue swallow -died eeat is or-
naiented with brass buttons is large as
doubloons, and on his fat tinrs h wo aars
rings enough to stock a (lithtitnai St. ji uS-
elry store. He also w cars a gold watch
chain w hich looks strong enough to hang
him with.
The rest of the company consisted of Mr.
Grabs clerks and office aeits ani a few of
the "e.rchange broken o tithe city, amng
whmli our friends liotg. 11 inkel, andGree-n-
bey occupied plonineit place. The +ta-
bles hal been remoVed froi ithe supper
table: and the wine and cigars alone renin-
ed to cap oil the fe tivity. At th mumieunt
when I choose to decoy te reader hit isbly

Mrsm'-a jolly time, for music is cheap
In Gothaii, as Uicle Tommy the Frentch
captain says of that which he has in his new
Laager ter salotn in Philadelpliia. Thi
uitue ubhiich we hear is thtie harp crack
of eiiitniaigie cork  i   tikthe  bro k-like gtir-
gle of genetroui   wine. which like mttoun-
tii n ttrrents ahii  dogtwn dark ravines
after a sheitwr. is d-stiied to pass down
gulies, or gulht, which like the said ravitnes
are aluats tdry e\celtt httnti  tie cork from
avae is draw iinout.  Mitry lauigtttr toil is
leiardl-niei C etri sitit to the car of all,
except such as hiaviat bosotm full of the sour
milk  f itiuntu nun-kiniittss.
Tie- 1 cii from w heti this music proceeds,
is a crv s-lit icoutpanil  who arnt si-eil
at a bu tttie w lictilieh  i rpetl i hlae
of ti ct tit e   tie ii MIr. i rab't nfici-. uThe
Chifof th tieIt it try ili-alers is stiatid at the
li-e i tt ie ' talt. on his right sits Mr. Tul-
us (at liiitinihi  l'fbt, Mr. \'antlersltyktii,
A gu'iutlct'fiiiilwhom  we have not yet intro-
u ti.t. ut nut  ow, fi hutt is a prioinent
i     r t ofiiit itthliti' coil Fedlracy adii does the
igi-t itt-~ittt'-- tip ttw ofiiii' any dealer
iin titi croth. lit is a sitngaar looking
a        omti-  tint witat reseibttles a pumpkin
with a large wa rt on (it  top of it f ' a headt
antu t    ri t itv sharp sti-hl- in the bottom for
lit title r arib-, le is like tite of
1i t'vittlt s st ttri-s. ull as briottail as hie is long.
ll!-tireitntirenl c is aotit f e fieeit, from
that infer his height.   Itls heads is very
1tall his fa't trdi as a scarlet cattbbage. tnd
nitunlike it in rtttitdity anti general ap-

ptraUe.  A iitu  lutliy uf a nst  smittis to  tudel-lr tontgut do -amte. den I wolt ns
lbt t-s- tu look uh ttIt int betw eel his ft tt  a lithli it a s ph1e-iht! Dudtir andbtl lt-
che1k. nd a pair of sharp. twinkling grty Ztn, I  twoultl makt x on cink dat der ulyvel
I~ r tt fromiii aotvI like gIow-wtorWs w-as amuntig yu D'm-I)-re is tio suil toteune
tutk in the tatid abfage iin tlthe ight-titme. int der sturldt as der ieteer it orut sht kin
it tears a bright rel vaisteoat w which does in pooblic. Yenttilmens in yeneraa t i' Mr.

THE VICTIMS OP LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

19

Gatlin in particular I danks you once more I mean devel-ope itself-I mean zat like
agin from der bottom of mine heart !'!  ze man it begin to show zat it is no longere
As he closed, Mr. Vandersplyken gave a boy !
another tremendous thump upon his stom-  "Yes, we comprehend: all right !' said
ach. Whether he he meant that his heart Mr. Grab.
lay in those regions or not, is a matter of Reader we'll drop the curtain for a change
doubt-the reader may settle it as it best of scene. I only introduced this chapter to
suits her or hn.                      show you how jollily our lottery dealers
Mr. Vandersplyken having seated ihuself can pass their leisure hours-how little
was entitled to the call for the next toast. they think of the orphans and widows ruined
Ie looked around and his eye fell on Mr. by their deeds--how little remorse they
Iloag. Mr. Ioag was a jolly son of Erim feel, how seldom they think of the victims
and looked it, although he dressed gen- whum they have, like BJarnegat wreckers,
teely and looked like a sharp business man. lured on to wreck and ruin by holding out
When Mr. V. called upon him, Mr. II.arose, their false lights. They are as devoid of
and im a rich, mellow brogue replied :  conscience as a rock is of vitality.
''Mister Vandersplyken, it's in a quan-da-
ry you've placed me, for divil the idea of a
toast is there in the thick head of me. But
rather than make ye onasy I'll give ye an

ould favorite o' Itmine. here's luck to our
sid atin may ouldt Satan fly away wid thetu
that tl't like us!"
Ti'e toast of Mr. Long was drank with
great applause, and he in turn called for a
en itetit from Messieur Irondin. At the
mention of this name a very small gentle-
Ian rose frotinundtesr a huge heau  of hair
and whiskers, and in a shrill voice respond-
ed:
"'Shentihnens, et mon cher freres! !ze
aime xcuse rich my friend Messieur Van..
ideri-plykin 'ave present to you, I must of-
farte. zat-ze Anglais is not ze language of
my mtuzzar nor my falar-e, and zey did not
t-ei tme to ontinerstan, it at all! Zerefore
I sail te ver , vat you call him-sacre I for-
get-I shTall say s-er' let-tle words next to
iossia' at all. In my own language to my
coutr I-ymin, I can sell ze teekets like ze
t    tlegriaph, ver fti, but in Anglais-maut-
vais! it is ve-r much trouble. But I shall
learn him soteu tite. Shentilmens, I shall
propose to you for ze toast-1nmerique, zat
grand leet/e repub/igue zat 'are slust begin
for to dev-el-ope itself !"
"America, that great little republic which
has just began to devil-up itself!" echoed
Catlin, followed by the others.
"No, shentilnens, you make meestake I

IT was evening; a few days later than
the time when we last met Charles Brenunon
in these chapters. lie was seated close by
the side of his lovely young wife. She had
been singing. 11cr guitar was in her hands
still. But she loolied sail. Could it be
possible that the clouds of unhappiness had
already cast a shadow ott a path where
youth's spriiig-flowersalone had grown?
"I do not like that Mr. Catlin who dined
with us to-day, Charles. Where did you
form his acquaintance," she said.
"Oh here in the city, in business-he is
from the South, rich as Crmsus and a great
speculator."
"I do not like him Charles. lie looked
at me at the table as if lie would see through
tue-his eyes burned with a licentious glare,
I felt as if a scipent had fixed its eye upon
me. I could not but meet his gaze and yet
an inward dread forbade mec. Do not bring
that man here any more Charles. Some-
thing tells me that we both should avoid
him i"
"Oh nonsense, my Mary, he is a particu-
lar friend, has I may say been a kind friend
to me t"
"Charles, you do not need any 'friends'

t

18

t

_                ,       i        __i.l  _._..1_  .

into iuch qttstitiiiabl  tcib ty, Mr. (Ctin
arose to give a sintitnt   ciodie-nc- to
the' ietiest of Mn. itatb, w hi hat itg just
been toasted had re-spotldell iii a neat:pit ch.
'I give you," sat   Mr. (atlii, owing
low towardi the genitli-uimni w hiiim hit niamedt
-lI give you the health of Mr. Vander-
iplykti, out oft liet mttost tel itv td'sii sucteiss-'
fiil members (f our ol fraternity !"
- Mr. Vander. p~ly ke's giood hlilth !"
etiot the party eliing gla. --si the ctts t
of which   in a itometitt  -iwc 'dpteiij, d'
wher utuany a load hlad gone libifre.
Mr. V.'s face grew  larkir iii its purple
glory, beautifully red like a bloody eet
steak. as the butcltrs say. lie arose. cd
slappiig his hiandl tepihitcttCally uptoin his1
Irotutbiratit stoinachl. lie said
"Mr. Gatlin iii particular. and yenttement
in y tenral, froit dei pottomt of tiiie ltart I
dauks you   You ths i        brotitli' as a
turkey tiolbler.  I gait spheiek -out in -
,but by ter cots of wtar'.cien it comes
to ter ptisiness, den iphk pt ti-r is atiy
podly.  If you did understand de J)ic teh'u r,
which was mint fadler tongue     nol titue

CIIAPTER X.


_
4 "
.#

20                       THEr WHlEEL OF I
but father and me-confide in no others, for
friend-hip in naaie and deceit in fact are
but too of ten allied !'
'But Mr. Catlin is a gentleman, a man of
honor 1"
If you trust too much in his honor, dear
husband, you may rue the day you ever met
him. Iho not be angry with me, but I do
not often mistake men. You are warm-
hearted, of a noble and generous nature,
but too contiding. A specious and plausi-
ble villain might deceive you with your
eyes open
"P:haw, Mary, my love, I'm not a tyro in
the worlds' ways-Catlin is not the man you
take him to be."
For your flake I hope not, my love. But
I dislike, yes Ijer him!"
Well, let's say no more about hun, I'll
not invite hini here again, dearest."
You ehit n(1e111 so already and I kuInow
he'll conic Charles. VIen you shook hands
at parting. you asked him to come o1ten to
toe i. lie said he wisoule be happy to do
so and as he spoke his basilisk eye was fixed
(l ine11. 1 treilblel, I know not uly !-
li.ii h  I repeat it, If or that man!
"XWitliolit cause, my Bury. No ((0e dare
or Ca.tun arm you yo1 kinio. Am I not your
pro1tee tort. The man111 n ho nould111 insult you,
by ti en a loo:, should peii !Iut let us
talk noftomethine more pleasant. Where
rh ill n '  go tI-morriow et ending, iy love, for
aiiumii-uts:"
'Let tu tay at htonme. I have two or
three oew  otngs that I have leen practising,
a hiie you have never heard. I will sing
thi for you !
"IIad1 you not rather go to the opera?''
'-It is too expensive. Charles. Father
thinks we are too extravagant. You know
his strict ideas of ecitionly. 11111 your wife,
bit iot the less am I hlI  daughter. I with
always, while I faithfully fulfil my duty as
at foaln arilobedient wife, to please him and
imtke him happy. lie has ever been a good
kind and'indulgent father-he has done al
that a liarlIent could do for me, it is but just
that I should make him some return now
when the hand of time is writing wrinkles

'ITHE VIOTI8 OFLOTTERY ANDt POLICY DilALER ~.

21

IsFORTTNE; OR.
on his brow and scattering hoar-frost upon
his head!"
"You are right, my angel, you are right.
Oh Mary were I but so perfect as you are,
I would be worthy of you !"
'Dear Charles you are worthy of me. you
are good and kind, you are only too gener-
ous, too open-hearted ! You confide too
much in those whnom you meet. Learn to
believe that the world is like a fgrest-the
fairest flowers which grow there arc poison-
ous. The noblest looking trees ire apt to
be rotten in the heart-often the iost-solid
are those which are crooked and gnarled !''
'You speak like a philosopherI my dear.
and I will profit by your teaching. But
one more song my dear Mary and then we
will retire."
She obeyed.
C1IAPT f:R X.
Moe Elcharacters! "WXhy in the name of
griaious goolness do y yellbritng mtoire folks
in ?'" asks the impeatient re'aer. haven'tt
you1 got e'noug9h Satots 1upon1 the stage now?
Ini rep1ly, and upon mature 1'oni oerattin,
as inagert' Burton says, jpermH meIl('to tee
mark in the language of Shaklepeae. andl
without the most remote intention of tiL1int
offence. I haet   a11/ ju-Jolt. Ths l not
going to be a 11l1d-aut-thunder popl)-gun
 of i novel, Iate to order, 100 p:ges, ret-
ther more or less, to sell for two Yill shil-
 liugs, a baby of a hook that e:m hardly
crawl into the public affetions; it is to le
a man of a work, over 200 pages ald worth
r every continental copper that is demanded
for it. It is to be picter-eskel, illustrated
, in a style that will make the iniuortal
Barnum weep tears of envy. Artists eif the
s first talent and the lest eugravers in Atmer-
I ica are engaged, "regardless of expense," or
, as Nicodemus Dewalbutlittle said to his
i intended when he was courting her, "Sally.
t let's go and have t glass of ice ecrean to-
, gather, (he meant two spoons i one glass.
s of course,) and so we'll do as good wives

do, old-.s tlin'ise the expense.m' You see built house to enter through. But a glow-
she belonged to the church, and he didn't ing fire in the grate and the light of a
dare to say darn'                      glittering chandelier contrasted warmly and
. But to our new characters. We'll take a brightly with the outer darkness. Just so,
look at them through our "mind's eye."  sotmetimnes you'll find a warm heart and a
We must get you to go to Boston, for bright soul under the rough and ugly exte-
there our scene for this act lays, though the riot- of a human. All may seem cold and
chief and only villain in the lot, is a New comfortless outside, but take a look at the
Yorker. Though we have many of the best heart's parlor before you judge harshly,
of Gone's creation here, yet sometimes fate  The Sisters were playing a little Spanish
wills it that black sheep shall creep into the waltz together, Lydia accompanying the
flock of white one's.                   piano with her guitar.  The music was
We will first introduce you to two sisters, simple, therefore beautiful, like true loveli-
twin in looks and disposition, as they are ness when unadorned. The twins were so
by birth. Their names are Eugenia and engaged that they did not hear the door
Lydia Newbury. Both blondes, sylph-like open, nor the soft step of Mr. Anthon, who,
in form, hair of a light, glossy brown, curl- now that business h1our-s were over, had re-
iug over lily-white shoulders ; cheeks which turned home, divested himself of his heavy
unite the lily and the rose, eyes blue as a boots and overcoat, and in his slippers, (a
cloudless June sky, .features not Grecian, pair which they had worked for him) and
but decidedly F1merican, behold them inno- dressing gown, stole softly in to hear them
cent, happy, beautiful.                 play.
They are the daughters of a wealthy gen-  Mr. Anthon had a jolly looking face. It
_ lemnan in Newburyport. who has extensive was rather red, perluhps the juice of old
dealings with Mr. Anthon, an extensive Port had someethilg to do withl that. his
shippii n merchant in Boston, at whose nose was a good-natured turn-up little
house ithe two sisters are staying during thing. his eyes were very large, but they
their temporary visit to thue metropolis of twinkled like little diamonds in a rough
the Bay State. Mr. A. as well as Mrs. De- setting. lie had not much hair, what there
horah, his ancient housekeeper, (for Mt. A. was had turned rather gray. lie was of a
is yet a bachelor, he has beent too busy ma- portly figure, looked as if lie lived well and
king money to take time to court and marry) liked to see others do so too.
think "ithe world and all" of the twins, and  The girls finished the waltz.
always do everything in their power to    "I do think it is most time that our dear
make thuet happy in their frequent visits Mr. Anthen got hotne !" said Lydia.
to the city. Mr. A. bought a piano for   "So do I," added Eugenis.
Eugenia and a guitar for Lydia, to play  "Do you know, sister Lyd, I wish he was
tpon when they paid him a visit. They really our uncle !"
were both fine musicians, and, strange as it  "Why, sister?"
may seem. the old gentleman actually doted  "Because, he seems like a relation. Fa-
on music.                              ther and he have always been like brothers.
At the moment which I take thte liberty lie has known us from childhood, played
of appropriating for the introduction of my with us when we were babies, been kind to
fair young friends, they were alone in the us till now. We all love him-that, is lile
snug little back parlor. All was cold and a relation, as an uncle should be loved.-
cheerless outsi-le, for a cold North-East wind Now I was thinking l'st night when he
had brought in sleet and rain from the ice- kissed us both, before we retired, how pain-
bergs. The wind moaned outside as if it ful it would be if he should fall in love
was pained because it could not break the with either of us and want to marry us.
window-pane, or find a crevice in the well. We are 18, marriageable, Sis, and he is

p

t

S

.  
4-
s
_ ;
,

$i
4


d
i
3
I
x
f
d
E jj
I
Y
t  _  x

fiTon- t  cs this Very night. and the
Ceir ma t\w i 1l1  1 i t'  ttre i this room,
andt  t  inr u  , 1halwb itn''o e !:''
h, s-s sdIsIn-andi wcht'ave nto dresses
i  fit  ' a  t  lin :"U  snt  Lsh.i:s.
"Ph-s ' ~--st  You  are dressed  well
siets u'thisr tsV-s-Vu 'notw I hteIs ce''Iremo-
r V'"  -  dsi ils'  sfii ntil, with  a  chuckle.
;!    i' r' is  anybodtts  itily btt  us and  the
Sand  n     iletl hi're'"' a-led Luge-
it...
t '1i. V  . ti-o rs 1/cod55l is- 'slgyoting
ir i Nc   sork  xu s tiu-n t fatll in
101 ', ,ilisito  ith V itt' yttulng, rich,
rs'-p- s-itt ' nitls It scsi-stlt'  U'
\Vhtat time is it to occut', it'?''
-'Very  osi at t'-r tei, imy dl'ears-hy the
w:ay. tei ist hs sretdy tw !
"Yts, sir, Mrs. Deborah was only waiting
for c'ii                   . f-
"Well. then she shall wait no longer.
Come girls, take your ume''s arm, ha! ha !
i'll ie an vte/c, Eugenia. and when you
get married I'll give ytn something nice to
coummenco the world with. Come, lot's go
to taa!"

opened th strict do or, and kalk''ateu the
timet you' d e changing your wet clothes.
So I knowed just uhen to set the tea a
teepin'. and you'll 11ii that are iort-cake
donefi st the w ay you like it '
"You're a kind. good hiouiskeper, Mrs.
)etrah-Inever'ci'osuld d without ou'
"So you've said for those twenty years,
Sir!U
"'Iave you told Mrs. Deborah the inws,
Mir. Althon?'' amsd Eugenia.  She did
not notice Iis tlook t wearing in time, tcs
slid Lydia, who cas sugaring lier tea.
'"News, la i', I ha'n't hearn no news fos
ever so long, what is it?" cried Mrs. Debo-
rah.
"About the wedding," cried Lydia, as
she buttered a nice piece of hot short-cake.
"A wedding .Who on airthi is agoin to
make fools of themselves now.   It aint
nary one o' you, gals.?"
"No, it's-   "
"Hush, don't let her know it " whispered
Mr. Anthon to Lylia, looking another warn-
ing to Eugenia to keep silence on the sub-
ject.

22                      'rE wHat OP MsFoRUNE; or,
only &amp;}, not an nnmarriageable age, you    "They didn't do anything else I"  We'll
know. Were he to propose for you or I follow them-only to see how a bachelor
papa loe-r himn o that he'd say yes right keeps house.
away. We think so much of him that we      Mrs. Deborah sat at the head of the ta-
wouldn't know what to say, and then-" ble. The steam      from  the silver 'tea-urn
"The fat 'could be in the fire ! Ha! Ha! curled gracefully around her pale but pin-
Ha !'' redr 1    nr. Attihotn, who could "hold cid countenance. 11cr gray hair, for she is
i" no lonit e. fr his face had been )ur)- as old as Mr. Anthon, was neatly co:nted
tn  a il, suilsresea ed Is it hitr for soie time. back and all but the front hidden under a
"( ig'oonos n-ht heard us !'' cried nicely frilled cap which thirty years ago
b.oth the 'til e srt1gingiu from their in- was fashionable.  1 tr dress ii as plain, of a
trt'neIt j and itry  i  itoch' a ru-h dfor the silken gray, anI was fitted to her prim, I
dotr  1siut Mri. Antlii deit arIred their exit. might say ilim forim, as neatly and closely
'1 b14 ot "lgi h. Its' cried- -''titohl man as if it was pasted thereunto. l1cr large
i cr1 yo -o bls ybour lily-white souls! Igray eyes were mils and kimd in expression,
oi havenI 'flsh'-led. you've pleased Itme ! and though she looked rther p   tanical,
Cottme it down biufore the fire and let's have there was nothing of extra austerity about
a tIdl-,   citmiii Kit else, teinia, I wont Mrs. Deborah.
ks  ' - y in tos-rin if-'itruth is, (but dontt  "We've k'pt you waititg, Mrs. Detorab,
till e  "di/s or  migthit g  e/taraearwii'd,) 1 fear !," said Mr. Anthon, as he seatedtium-
t huis e al c ady mtdtie arrangeineits to take self at her right hand. alter seeing the
a pirtie r 1 tty bst+-i.               young lilies place at the btabe.
.(/:. \ir. A  ithisn, andal u/en ?'' cried both  "Noth i' to speak on, Mr. Anthot !" she
-  s    t-i - ''                      re pliedl-"'I knowed  our step when you

-THE VICTIMS5 OF LOTTR
"Who did you say?" asked Mrs. Deborah,
who had not heard the whisper or seen the
look of Mr. Anthon, being engaged in pick-
ing out a particularly sized lump of sugar
for her own cup of tea, (she never took
more or less.) live cups of tea were her
quzantumt asfjiciZ also.
"Oh, that's a secret," said Lydia with a
roguish smile.    _
'" never knowed no good conic o' keep-
m secrets! I knowed us good a gal as
ever lived that died o' keeping a secret. She
loved a nice fuller, but she didn't like to
show it, so she kept the secret. lie loved,
but seem' her so oiiish, he was afeard to tell
her, and arter a while he fell  inith ano-
ther gal, and they kioder hitched together
and he married hier. 'Ihat broke the poor
girl's heart ihtat kept her secret. Come,
inw, Miss Liddv, let's know all about it!
who is agoin' to get married ? Anybody I
know ?,
"Oh yes, I can't tell names, but it's one of
your best friends'"
"One of my best friends? Why I haven't
got any best tiieids but you gals and your
father. Mr. Anthon and D)eacon Grant, and
lie's married !  oie gals, out with it.-
l)on't keep a body in expense, now don't
ye!"
"Maybe. Mr. Anthon can tell you !" said
L'tgenia with a wicked smile as her rosy
lips opened to re\ cal teeth white as alabast-
er'.
"'Not I! I never have any secrets !" said
the gentleman.
'Except maftriionial ones!' said Lydia.
with a laugh. "Come Mr Anthon, let our
good Mrs. Deborah mit the secret."
Mi's. Deborah (lropsped the spoon with
which she had been stirring her tea. She
had adjusted her spectacles and for the time
occupied by the last four or five paragraphs
had watched alternately the countenance of'
each speaker. In an earnest tone, she asked:
"Gals don t tell me no story-is either of'
you agoin' to get married ?"
"Not that we know of, Mrs. Deborah !"
said Eugenia, who couldn't help laughing
at the earnestness of the questioner.

;Y AND POLICY- DEALERS.
"Then," said Mrs. Deborah, looking at Mr.
Anthon almost fiercely, "it's you! Yes, I
see it all. Here I've been your housekeep-
er for well onto thirty years and now you'll
bring a woman-a wife in the house to take
my place. I'm to be like an old boss, when
I'm worked to death I'm to be turned out
to die im the common!''
'Listen to me, Mrs. )eborah, you're
wrong
'I w on't hear nothmn' Mr. Autnon-you're
a cruel wicked man, so you are ! cried Mrs.
Deborah, aid patting her apron to her eyes
she rushed out of the room.
"Well, that's rich !" said Mr. Anthon.
"Oh why didn t you satisfy her curiosity.
she's a good cea ture, she ought not to be
deceived !" said Eugenia.
'.Smaurtei' people lethan her have been det
ceived !" said ir. A. with a chuckle----"but
let us hurry through ti', I expect com-
pany up-stairs every moment.
CIIAPTER XI.
Ar the very time when Mr. Anthon was
listening to the music and remarks of the
twi sisters, as described in the foregoing
chapter, a young gentleman whom we will
name te Mr. Augistus Vatroy, Was adjust-
ing his cravat before a mirror in a private
parlor of the bust hotel il Boston. lie was
not alone. A young and fine looking wo-
man was there, and a sweet little curly-
haired, blue-eyed baby was playing with
sonei toys on the carl)et.
"You must be intending to visit some very
particular friend, Gus,'' said the f'emae-
"a lady perhaps--you're so particular in
your dressing to-day !"
"There you are, jealous again, Laura !"
"No, not jealous, Gus, but you have neg-
lected me much of late!"
"Well, 1 have told you why! You know
my business here !"
"I know that you say it is to form a part-
nership with a rich shipping merchant.-
Your connection with the lottery business

_ y


24

TiE VICTIS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS-

THE WHEEL OF MsPOTrTUNE ; Oi,

k=

25

i
;

'1

in New York makes me doubt it. But I cupied by himself and his mistress, he hur-
care not, if you refrain from forming any ried down into the reading room, where he
partnerships with my rex ; that, Augustus, joined a fine looking and fashionably dress-
I will not endure. That child, our child, ed young man, one with a far more noble
though it is by the world's laws illegiti- and manly appearance than himself.
mate, is the ottopring of our love-it is It-  " Have I kept you waiting long, dear
gitimautely ours by the immutable laws of Dennison ?" he asked, as his extended hand
Heaven, and it is a guard against your was grasped by the other and warmly sha-
wronging me ! You dare not, for your ken.
soul's sake wrong me while it lives !"    "No, only a few moments, but you are
"Laura what are you running on about.? dressed as if you were going to a party, is
I haven't dreamed of wronging you ! Do act steal of to a mnelclant's house to sign part-
like a sensible woman !"                nership papers and do business."
"I will, Gustavus; till you force me to  "I'll tell you the reason. Old Anthon
act otherwise. I was pure till you met me, hinted to me that he had two fair visitors at
I will be till you desert me, for as yet my his house, daughters of a wealthy friend in
heart does not tell me that I have done Newburyport, and I didn't know but the
wrong, though the world may say I have good old oddity might take it into his heal
erred !"                            '   to introduce' us, so I wanted to do as I al-
"Wtll, dear Laura, set your heart at rest ways do. put my best foot foremost when 1
-I shall never dr'ert you ! But I must go into ladies societyv.'
hurry-Iiy friend  enimison must not he  "You might at least have informed me,
kept waiting, he is to w itness the drawing that I might have dressed also."
tip of may partnership papers. Good bye for  "Pshmaw ! you're always well dressed, my
a little while!:"                       boy. and twice as attractive as I am!:"
"Good bye-take care of yourself, Gus,   "Flattery--flattery, Gus, but if you're
and hurry home !" said t'he female, kissing ready let's be off. It is later than the time
him fondly.                             you mnentioned, and purmctuality stands at
"Papa ti's Frankey, too !" said the little the head of the virtue's of a business man.
thing on the floor. reuaeiing up its chubby My father has often remiarked to me'that by
arms, though it did not look its if it was a it he made his fortune !"
year old.                                 The two gentlemen left the hotel, arm in
The mother raised her child to his lips. arm, and entered a carriage at the door.
lie kissed it. sighed and left the room, the
mother noted the sigh.
"There must be something wrong-he is
deceiving me " sim tmurmured.  "I will          CUAPTER XII.
watch, andi oh, if he wrongs moe and my poor
child, terrible shall be my vengeance. I  After tea Mr. Anthon and his two lovely
have risked all, left every friend on-earth guests repaired to the parlor.
for him- he dare not desert mae now for   "It is time the parties were here :" said
another !"                              Mr. Anthon, glancing at his watch.
Poor woman ! how little she knew that  A hasty, heavy step was heard at the
passion often blinds a man to the past as door, it was thrown widely open and a fig-
well as to the future-iees the heart that tire appeared upon the threshold ! It was
'erst was hot as "the lava Ilood which burns clad in an ancient brown bombazine mantle
in Etna's breast of flame-veils honor, breaks or cloak-an old fashioned bonnet, not un-
rows, and dares ail danger in its headlong like the Quaker bonnet in shape, but made
course.                                of faded black silk, covered its head, it
When Augustus Vanroy left the room oc- carried a bundle in one of its hand-a bun-

_
_
K r
a
. ,

die tied up in a red and yellow cotton She had heard Mr. A's explanation and had
handkerchief. Its face was hidden by a vanished. Not out into the storm, but down
thick green veil. In the other hand it car- into the kitchen. Lydia followed her on
reed a faded green cotton umbrella. What tiptoe to see what the old lads would do.
could it be? Mr. Anthon and his fair pro- First the old lady tore off the old bonnet,
tegees had not time like the princely Dane, then the mantle, and then she actually corn-
to cry "angels and ministers of Grace de- menced dancing.  She didn't really cut
fend us'-hefore the veil which concealed the pigeon wings, or imitate the polka, but
the face of the figure was raised.     she hopped right up and down, shaker fash-
It was .Mistress Debprah! 1Ier face was ion.
deathly pale. except around her eyes which  "I know'd it-he couldn't have had it in
were red with weeping.                 his bussum to kill me with grief, and break
"I'm goin'!" she said, in a low, sad tone my heart when I've knowed him so long, and
-"will send for my chist in the mornin'!" loved him all the time without tellin' him
"Going out in this terrible storm?" cried on it 1"
1 r. Anthon, while the young ladies- were  The old lady began to cry again, but
speechle-s from surprise. "Why, Mrs. De- these were tears of joy. A ring at the
borah, you must be crazy !"            front door~ bell made her hastily wipe het
"So I am, e'en-a-most !" she replied, "but eyes-and Lydia hurried back to the parlor
I don't mind the storm nor nothing' now l to relate the scene which we have wit-
I can go to cousin Patience Grants to spend nessed.
the night, and______"
'Spend the night? Why, you are crazy !
Who'll get our breakfast in the morning ?"
"Your new wife, I suppose, if she isn't          CIIAPTER XIII.
too proud to work-I'll dare say she's none
too good !"                              OacE more let us look into the office of
:ally wife! Ira! ha! lie I he! ho ! ho !" Mr. Grab, the Chief of the Lottery busi-
"Oh, it's no lalla' matter to me, Mr. An. ness in New York. The clerks are busy all
thou !" and Mrs. Deborah commenced cry- around the room, each at his desk; making
ing afresh,                            entries in the large ledgers before alluded
"My, wife? why I'm not going to get to. Mr. Grab, as usual, occupies two chairs
married !' cried Mr. A., his sides still shak- before the fire, and his favorite Havana
ing with lgughter.                     sends up a cloud of smoke from his lips. lie
"Oh. tie, Me. Authon, you told us both seems to enjoy life very much.  Why
that you were this vcy evening going to shouldn't he-lhe is rich as Crosus, and has
take a partner for life !" cried Eugenia. not the heart to think or care how he came
"So I am, you little duck, but I didn't by it. The pistol of the suicide does not
say 'twas to be a woman.' It is only a bus- ring in his ear-the shriek of the widow
'n.   partner, one of the handsome and and orphan does not come piercingly in
wealthy young men I told you of-I expect through the windows of his soul, they are
you'll try to get him away from me and shut out by the brass shutters that keep
make him your partner for life, eh, Beau- from it the light of humanity. The wail
ty-bud !"                              of the dying child, or the moan of the ag-
"N ow, Mr. Anthon, you oughtn't to make onized mother who paid her last dime into
me blush !"                            his coffers, is unheard by him.
"Pshaw, child, a woman looks twice as  Tullius Catlin sat near Mr. Grab, and was
lovely with a blush on her cheek, if her eye reading a letter. After closing it, he turn-
is laughing at the same time !"        ed to Mr. Grab, and said:-
But where's Mrs. Deborah all this time ? "1 like that Vanroy !"

a


TIE WHEEL OF MIsFORTUNE; On.

"So do I, he's as smart as a steel-trap," just returned from the store to his cotta."'
repli-i Grab.                         home. Ilis brow was clouded-he seemed
Thi letter is from him, he has already annoyed at something.  His young wite
got old Atthon to go into partnership with looked sail, but lie seemed not to notice it-
him. Tohltters you got for him must have When tea was served, she remarked :-
told oill! Thi- partnership will throw him  "You've lost something, have you not.
it  a sieit't v we've not been able to touch Charles ?''
hifore in Boston-anu d lie cai work to our  ''Yes, I lostsOeainel)ersthis morning,love,
iitre-t bet tr than any nan I know of. I some important papers!"'
ldn't ie ll-surprisd if 'we netted Si~ttt ' 'And I found theft, and, oh, Charles, tiny
mouth out of that city, saintly as it is were lot tery tickets! How oftenI 'v heard
sl to be !"                           nm tatlier speak of the dreailtiul evil t
S 'iwe (light. I advanced him thirtyfi the lot try husiiness ! of its temtniat uions miil

I

the infatuation of those who once get it-
volved in these temptations.  Charey-
dear Charles, yon do not know how w irtce
ed I have been since I picked up those tick~
ets. I have this day shed the fii-t tears that
have passed my eyes since our narlilage
''And oh how needlessly my love ! Your
father only spoke from hearsay---he did not
know thebiusi- e condemned. To buy
a lottery ticket is far frim gambling. and
only think live that by the expienliture i:

.+hug of tlit cal inlterest except that a few dollars you may in a moment become
=omoe t    iof ou' friendils ot the Nw Yorik the recipient of a fortune !"'
pVlic., 1 Iiu p-et who it is, but an not -ore,  "Ciharlt-s do not be angry with me for
!in- ln on tiere fooiliig alo ilt the Post doubting your reasoning, fatheri did not
(tiee and telegraph offices to try to find make his fortune and his spotless fane for
nut  ' mnwthing tit  t is!" !'honor and integrity in that way. The same
lie dhin't make imlch at that !    door to wealth and reputation that admitted
'.I r ,er/.n onnot ! We'v  got things too hit, is open to you. In truth, you have the
ear tor that now. When I was on last I advantage. lie coimmuenced tle world friend-
ain      me 1ott t tbr- on a new s-tle. fo I sits- --ls and penniless-you know now, how
p '    -'t" ""nu ttoi"  'ilThe New York rich he is, how much respected. Chnars
0'e  t art' smart, iut i'v tthat them out ftr you know how much he loves you, how he
iih-tt six or seven years. ant I'll be altlmost worships me. 1)o not pain hit. I
mighty t  ti odi it yet !I'm as kin as 1 would not for the worlilhave him know that
they ar- ant Ihave always li-n /-urkI t  But you had ever bought a lottery ticket !-
l tot-f tntswrt these Ilettrs, exetuse liii !''  Promise me never to buy another ticket,
'Let ' warm up with a gln of wine be- and let me throw these into the tire !"
ore vu cottuttt-." t'-"''Dearest I'll buy no more, but let ts save
"A little might add to the flow of idea these, they have cost nioney and may bring
-I'll Il so wiitlhpli-asure !'        us mitore. 1 can see the drawing iii the

ChIAPTER XIV.
IT was evening. Charles Brennon had

morning and if you will consent to my re--
taimng them, Ill1 draw no more !"
"Well, my own sweet husband, on that
condition keep them. But oh never, never
buy another'
"Never-by your lips I swear it!"

26

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTER
Of course he kissed the book.
And though she took no oath, it is as cer-
tain that she returned the kiss. In fact the
oath was repeated several times, probably
to make it the more binding. I like to ad-
minister such oaths myself, they are never
compulsory, nor subject to cross question-
ing.
But a ring at the hall door bel startled
the parties froin their occupation, and the
servant announced Mr. Tullius Catlin. The
brow of Mrs. Brennon clouded  Well might
a shadow cross her sunny face-the serpent
once more had entered Eden.
Catliin bowed low to Mr. Brennon, as he
entered--lower still was his inclination to
the lady. Ie was dressed elegantly-not
exactly beyond taste, but very richly. his
garments were of the finest texture, the
most exquisite fit and the latest fashion.
The only jewelry which he exposed was a
diamond pin of great value, in his worked
scarf ; an immense ring of the same jewels
on his linger, and a gold watch chain of the
most curious fillagree workmanship.
'Good evening Mrs. and Mr. Brennon !"
he said as he entered. '1 am happy to see
you looking so well. Having nothing on
earth to dispel the care which ever clouds
the heart of one who leads a solitary life, I
thought I would accept your kind invitation
and come over and sit an hour or so within
your family circle ;" he said.
"To whichJmyself and wife, most heartily
welcome you l" said Brennon.
"Certainly-pray be seated I" said Mrs.
B. faintly.
Mr. Catlin took a seat and appeared per-
fectly at home. . But his practised eye had
noted on his entrance that something was
wrong. What it was, his wisdom could not
lenetrate, but he determined to know be-
fore lie separated from Charles Brennon that
night, for he felt a presentiment that it wait
in some way connected with the game which
he was playing.
"Are you fond of music?" asked Brennon,
by way of starting a conversation.
"Of some kinds!" replied Catlin. "I ac-
knowledge that I cannot understand or ap-

tliostnid, yon kiIw
"Yes, but it is- se well Sown, Oll good
Mfroun! It wi!l rduivue, mark my word,
will. Van say- hIt's got another fair
ittoion on land by which he'll get a
i w'Iho hicsIi bt e (I iter. and their father
i' i  ioit  over halt  a inillion i
" Iauck to hlii, t in! II ave you any lit-
i- b from111 l 1ol thi morning'
"   t . 01ne frontm  unl den l i!f''
W ho hasheto say?             -

r1

I

It
tjK

11

Y AND POLICY DEALERS.                27
preciate the beauties of the Italian or Ger-
man masters, over which our critics rave in
raptures, or that I am very solemnly im-
pressed with the nasal thunder of a thousand
voices when they break forth in 'Green-
land's icy mountains ;' but a sweet song,
from a feeling heart, always finds an echo
in my own. I love in a still moonlight
night when wandering pensively by a lake-
shore, in the shadow of trees whose leaves
whisper back answers to the wooing of the
breeze, to hear from afar off over the limpid
water the rich, full breathings of the flute.
That is music, is.it not, Mrs. Brennon ?"
"It must be sweet'" said the lady, who
unconsciously had been listening with ic-
terest to every word he uttered.
"Will you not favor us with a song ?-l
observe that your piano is already open !"
continued the visitor.
"Pray sir, excuse me-mine may be a
fashionable excuse for a young lady, but as
I am a married one, you will believe me
when I say that a cold really incapacitate
me !"
"Of course, I would not be so rude as to
press you !"
"Won't you take a glass of wine, Mr.
Catlin ?" asked Brennon.
"Thank you, no, my kind Sir-I seldont
partake of wine except at meals !"
"You smoke ?"
".'ever ! I am free from that vice--o
perhaps I am wrong, I should not call it a
vice ; a 'bad habit,' would be abetter name !'
"You was right in the first name, Mr.
Catlin !" said Mrs. B. warmly. "I wish the
Indian that first found the nasty weed in the
woods had been poisoned upon it, and that
Sir Walter Raleigh had drowned when he
wras carrying it over the ocean to introduce
its use among civilized people !"
"Ha ! ha! Mary becomes fiery over cigar
smoke in- a moment!" said Brennon. "I
never can enjoy a prime Habana in her
presence I"
"Enjoy ! Why my dear Charles, lid
rather smell the fumes of brimstone! You
give a monkey tobacco, and he'll spit it out!
The very hogs which will eat the garbage

i


'r
1. I 1

I

;1

20

a
F
k
F 4

28                      THa WuEL OFa
in the streets, will turn away from tobacco
in disgust !"
"Well, well, my love, I give in, as MEN al-
ways have to do when the women argue. I'll
have to quit smoking, but let us have some,
music-if you cannot sing, you can at least'
play us sii new polkas and marches '
"Certamly, love ! - and the young wife
seated herself at the piano. 11er jewelled
fingers ran like living gems over the ivory
keys, and she evinced a skill that few of her
sex could attain, in her execution of several
pieces of the most ditticult nature. Science
had finished for her what natural genius had
commenced. Her father had spoken truly
when he told his son-in-law that he had no
need to go to operas or theatres to hear
good music-he had it at home.
Thus im conversation and in music the
evening passed oil very agreeably.  Mr.
Catlin used every endeavor to make himself
agreeable, especially to the lady. His ideas
were expressed in the most chaste ternis, his{
principles seemed of the highest order.
Even B3re'nnon who had only seen Catlin "in
the rough as we may say, began to enter-
tain a far higher etimate of him, much as
he had thought of him before. lie had no
idea he was so retried, so well inrormed-
so much of a gentleman.
And tio lady-she who had so disliked
and dreaded d him? We can only say that
much of her prejudice had vanished t
It was quite late, between eleven and
twelve, when Catlin rose to leave. Bren-
non accompanied him to the door. Catlin
had not forgotten the state of excitement in
which he found Brennon when he came in,
and as they stoo( on the little porch he said:
"Charley, haven't you been in some
-trouble to-day-if you have tell me, you
know I'm your friend t"
"Trouble, Catlin! What do you mean?
You see I'm the happiest dog alive !"
"I know you have every reason to be
happy my dear boy-but mark me, I'm no
wizard, but I can read a man's very soul by
his looks. When I came in first, I noted
that you had been deeply annoyed at some-
thing l"

ttSFORTUNE *, j1
"You are right, I had !"
"And that annoyance had also cast a
shadow upon the face of your pure, good
young wife !"
"Again you are right, it had
"And as a friend, who in heart, hand, and
purse is entirely at your service, may I not
ask what that annoyance was
"Yes. by Jove, Catlin, you are my friend,
you shall know all ! She has discovered
that I buy lottery tickets, her old fool
father always made her think it a crime
and-"
"How did she discover it?" asked Catlin,
"By finding the package of tickets which
I bought yesterday. I dropped them from
my pocket this morning. I have promised
her to buy no more!'
"That is right--without these draw a
prize! You know luck once in, don't
change in a single turn. If you win a big
prize in this drawings a $5000 set of dia-
monds won't make her blame you much for
trying your chance again. By the way have
you the tickets?"
"Yes, here they areY
"Let me look-why on my word it seems
to me I saw 17 on the drawing of the capital
prize before I came over to-night. Charley,
let me take this package till morning, I'll
see you at lunch-time at the 'Shades,"
maybe I'll have good news for you !"
"I hope so ; take them, good night."
"Good night, old boy-pleasant dreams!"
CHAPTER XV.
ANoTitEt character yet, in our Drama,
and a strange, but a true one. But first
well raise the curtami and look at the
scenery in which he is 'bound to shine."
Come up into the attic of one of the old-
est cribs in Ann street. The furniture of
the room is simple, even less expensive than
cleanly. It consists of one old stool-a
bench which looks greasy, as if it had been
used for a table, and a small laying or gath-
ering of old blankets and rags in one cor-

ner, made up not exactly bed-like, but as
something had slept there.
There is an old auger-hole, or knot-hol
in one end of the bench and therein is stue
the remains of a tallow candle and close bf
side it lays a piece of charcoal. We woul
be puzzled to know thme use of that pieces
charcoal, were it not that figures are marke
heavily in black all over the once-white
washed wall, evidently traced by the coa
Scarce a spot on the four sides of the room
or on the plastered ceiling above, that wa
&amp;       not covered. We will keep the reader ii
the dark no longer. This was and is th
room of
a character well known to all the police
dealers and many policy buyers of Nevw
York.
I have described his room and his furni
tnre, and now will ring him in. Behold
an individual of sixty, who looks full eighty
His thin hairs are not grey or white-.-they)
are a dirty yellow. Like the veterans o
"76," there are very few left. His teeth
having mostly taken leave of absence, have
left his upper lip unsupported and it droops
toward the nether, sympathetically. Him
nose sees to be sharply looking after its
friends below. But hiskeen grey eyes, like
glow worms encastled in a skull, gleam out
with a strange, strong light. his form is a
study for an anatomist. It is that of a once
handsome, appollonian figure, now reduced,
not by the knife or scalpel, but by time and
want, to "skin and bone."  A few ragged
clothes conceal its interesting outlines from
the man of science, but the Anatomical Mu-
seum with all its boasted treasures, could
not show a better specimen.
Believe me reader, that man was once the
central star of fashionable society-courted
and admired-yes envied ! Talk of ro-
mance and fiction-BEALITY beats it all. I
am no novelist, I do not claim the name or
the fictitious honor-I am a painter and I
paint from LI i  My characters are not
"air-drawn," they are of flesh and blood.

THE VWTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

4_

:I

.1

if  But'I forgot-we, that is the reader and
myself are in Evan's room. Hark, he en-
e terms. See him, thin, gaunt and pale, but
k with wildly glaring eyes as he enters. He
e- comes to the stool, sits down, pulls out his
d old snuff box and takes a pinch of snuff.
Df Then from a pocket of his ragged trowsers
d he pulls out a piece of brown paper, care-
fully unfolds it and---what do we see? A
1. roll of bank bills. Strange to see such signs
, of wealth, where' all else is so squalidly
s poor!
n "Good dreams i Good dreams I" he mut-
e tered. "I know'd I had the numbers. I've
won a pile to-day-a few nights more and
I'll break 'em, and then I'll buy Long Island
and be a king!t"
He took a pinch of snuff and then counted
y his money. Twilight was spreading its fog
--he could scarcely see the numbers on the
bills, so he lighted his candle in the bench.
- But before he did it, he went and put a stick
1 of wood up against the hasp of the door-
. the only lock it seemed to have, by the way.
After he had counted and closely examined
I eh bill; he muttered-"seventeen hundred
dollars to-day! Pretty good-but I'll sleep
and dream-DREAM !"
s He did not undress, but he blew out the
light and then cast himself down upon the
bundle of blankets and rags in the corner.
In a few moments he seemed to have fallen
into a profound slumber.  He ,breathed
heavily, but regularly. Soon afterwards
he began to mutter.
"No-I7-37-them's gigs!" he mutter-
ed. " I'll-take three whole ones this time.
Let-let'ssee-17-37--and that othernum-
her isn't phtin t"
The sleeping man, for he was already
asleep, rose and going to the bench took up
the piece of charcoal. Though his eyes
were closed, he turned his face toward every
part of the room as if he was looking for a
blank spot to mark something upon. At
last, he knelt down on the floor and on one
of the planks marked in heavy, bold figures,
17, 37, and then laid the charcoal down by
his marks.
After this he again cast himself on his

tI Lt
I


83)
rude pallet.
leave him.

There for the present we'll
CHAPTER XVI.

,

4

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

81

IN the eighth chapter of this story I intro-
duced the reader to Constance Morley and
her mother, and left them suddenly, as a
knock at their door indicated a visitor.-
Whe they heard the knock, Constance at
once went to the door, and opened it. A
gentlemanly dressed man stood upon the
threshold, one who, in garb atnd in looks,
did not resemble a robber or a ruflian. Miss
Morley would at once have asked him to
come in. but he spoke first.
"Is this the residence of Mrs. Morley?" he
asked.
t ii, Sir !" said Constance.
"And your are-'
"IIer daughter, Sir !"
"Thie I am right; I called to see you on
business !"
"\Walk in and be seated, Sir-My mother,
Sir-"
"My service to you. Madam, my name is
Catlin. I am in a heavy business down town,
and having occasion for iiuch copying, and
having heard that your daughter wrote rap-
idly and well, I called to see if I could not
engage leer as a letter-copyist !'*
"Twould be better than sewing-how
much can she earn 7 asked Mrs. M.
'-I'm not particular in regard to compen-
sation-if twenty dollars a week will remu-
nerate her, I shall be happy to give it !"
"Towenty dollars a week?" asked the old
lady, scarcely believing her ears.
"Yes, Madame, and more if she thinks
after trying the labor that it is too little !"
"Really, Sir, you are too generous!"
"No. Madam-I have reasons for every-
thing I do. Do not think me entirely dis-
interested. The man who does a good
u. Lion and says that his motives are wholly
unselfish, tells an untruth. There is a ,no-
tire at the bottom of everything. I have a
motive. I knew your late husband. ie

once did me afavor ! I have not forgotten
it. It was only two or three days before
his death. I but lately heard where you
resided, and the first promptings of my
heart were to call upon and see it I could
serve you. I beg you not to think that it is
only you whom I serve, for in the business
I am in, your daughter's services as a copy-
ist will be fully worth her salary, and I
serve myself by engaging her !"
"I fear I cannot fulfil the duties of the
station, Sir !" said the young lady, timidly.
"I have had'no experience
"It requires none, only that you write a
plain, legible hand. That you write an el-
egant one, I can vouch
"Ilow, Sir? You have never seen my hand
writing '"
"Yes, Miss Constance, I saw   a note
you once addressed to your father. It was
written in pencil and evidently in a hurry,
but he showed it to me and I admired it.-~
This occurred only a few days before his
al demisel0 !"
The widows eyes filled with tears. The
words of Catlin recalled the past. Tears
were not strangers to her, however, and she
treated them familiarly, she brushed themii
away.
Catlin did not remain long. While he
was there, his conversation was free and
friendly, even as if he had been an old ac-
'guaintance, but in no way offensive. llrs.
Morley was delighted with him-he seemed
so kind, so alfable, so generous, and withal,
so unostentatious.  Constance was pleased
with his manner, yet intuitively she seemed
to shrink from him. Yet when he gave her
a card with his address upon it, she prom-
ised to call on the morrow to arrange the
preliminaries for entering up upon her du-
ties as a copyist.
Ile took his leave. As he walked from
the door he muttercd-"She is fast in my
net. I'll pay Morley for his last favor, now.
I wish he could see me cancel the debt. Not
two hours before he killed himself, he struck
me in the face and called me thief! The
blow burns yet-but he shall pay for it
through those whom he has left behind.-

Iv.was eleven o'clock when Catlin, after
leaving Brennon's house in Brooklyn, ar-
rived at Grab's rooms. Yet the last named
gentleman was up. lie was occupied as
usual in smoking a prime IIahana.   As
usual, he occupied two chairs, his legs across
one. No one but himself was in the room.
"Ah, Tullius," he said, as our villain, for
Tullius Catlin is the villain, not the hero of
thisstory, entered-"I'm glad you have come
in. 1 was getting go to-bed-atively inclin-
ed, as my friend Willis says when he's
sleepy."
"I'm anythingbut sleepy just now-we've
got business on hand. But for the mere acci-
dent of a visit which I made to-night-to get
a peep at a pretty woman, we might have
lost the best pigeon in our trap!"
"low so?"
"You know about Brennon "
"Yes, old Brent's son-in-law-he's ours
safe enough!"
"If things are managed right he li-but

Ii

TilE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE On,

Constance is a beauty, rather a proud one I married! He didn't look like a married
think. keen too, as a briar! But I'll hum- man?"
ble her pride-I'll bring her down before I  "Why mother? Do married men look.
am done. It will require caution--well, I different from single persons of the same
am ever cautious. It will require courage sex?"            -
not the courage which is called for when a  "Of course they do, child!  Didn't
man faces death on the battle-field, but the your poor dear father always look pale and
courage which must nerve a man when on kind o' thoughtful, as if he knew the re-
a desperate hazard, in love or in game, he sponsibility he had on his shoulders, that of
easts all upon the the turn of a die-a cour- supporting me and bringing you up right?
age which may perhaps be termed impu- All married men look that way, more or
dene, coolness or something of that kind. less. They show it in their looks  but
She shall be mine-soul and body-once all this isn't getting tea-I'll'make a strong
mine, when I have hissed in her ear-girl, cup to-night, there's nothing like tea for
your father called me a thief, and struck people of weak nerves like me !"
me, she may go to the Devil, to Blackwell's  having delivered herself of this sage
Island, the Asylum, or Potters' field, I don't opinion, Mrs. Morley betook herself to pre-
care !"                                 paring the evening meal, and as we don't
how different the conversation and feel- like to interfere in kitchen matters, we'll
ings in the little room of Mrs. Morley and let down the curtain and seek new amuse-
her daughter, after Catlin left.        meat in another chapter.

'Mother." said Constance, after she had
closed the door, "I told you better times
would come-I felt then, a presentiment
of what has occurred ! Now you will not
have to work. My salary will be ample to
to support us lhandsoniely. We will mio
longer have to turn our dresses, to do our
own washing and cooking. I'll hire a girl
to-morrow. And mother, we can send to
mar.et and get what we want, and not have
go to the corner grocery for a slice of
ham or a herring-oh, mother. I feel rich
sine that gentleman came !"
"I wonder if he is married?" asked themo-
thr.
"Why-mother ?"
"Nothiing, child, only I was thinking--"
"Ila! ha! ha! you don't want to get rid
of ne, mother? IIe is not fool enough to
marry a poor girl, when as you can see by
his dress and the way he talks of business,
that he is rich! Rich men generally seek
rich wives-I suppose they feel a delicacy
in courting poor ones, for fear the girls may
think they want to buy them!"
"I wasn't saying anything about marry-
ing, I only remarked-or I didn't remark, I
just wondered in my own mind if he was

I ,i
Fr  t
:1

't
t
"
4
s {

F

u
Y  J
'b=
N.:rS

CIIAPTER XVII.


ac
t
A
I-
e  z
Li

ISFORTUNE ; OR,
CHAPTER XVIII.

32                      TUE WHEEL OP )
*   if I hadn't gone over to his house to-night
our cake would have been dough" "
"The devil, you say !"
"Yes, sure as shooting. You see I took
a fancy to his wife, she is heavenly, the first
time I saw her. I thought this evening
I'd pay him a visit and study into her
character a little so as to see how I might
make my advances, for a woman is like a
fortification, you must know something of
its position and defences before you dare
to venture an assault. Well, as I said be-
fore, I went over-when I went in I saw
that clouds had been hovering over the
parties. Before I left him I found out the
reason. She had found otit that he had
been buying tickets, was horrified, a curtain
lecture had ensued, her father having taught
her that murder wasn't half so bad as buy-
ing lottery tickets. He had promised of
course to quit !".
"How did she find it out?"
"The fool dropped the last package he
bought, in his bed-room, but I've got it
from him and now the only way to hold on
to him is to let him draw a prize from
these numbers-at least a five thousand
dollar go!"
"Well, you can fix that, my boy. heave
those matters to your judgment, entirely !''
"You can rely on my working things up
right, Sir! All that I want is capital and
a carte blanche, and I'll make your firm
equal the Rothschilds of Europe, in wealth,
yet! We have more influence now, than
any firm in America. We have judges in
our power, we can buy the press-we can
defy the law, yes, by making legislators we
can make laws to suit ourselves. A few
years more, Mr. Grab, of proper manage-
ment, will give us the reins and we can
reign as despotic as the Czar of Russia,
rain showers of gold on our friends, and
floods of trouble on our foes I"
Ring down the curtain! The orchestra
will please play the lemoncholy tune of
'Old Uncle Nod," over the lamentable, sud-
den and unexpected demise of this chapter.

IT was the next day. In a lottery office
in Centre street stood quite a motley crowd,
behind the "screen." Several of them wore
black, some were women or had been once,
before raggedness, rum and filth deprived
them of woman's first right, that of being
looked upon as the connecting link between
the angels of heaven and we sublunary
masculine humans. They were all listening
to
who for a'"consideration" offered to tell his
dreams of the night before. Fifty cents
apiece was the "consideration." One old
negress who had but one eye-and had the
white blotches of small pox on her scarred
and ruin-bloated countenance, seemed most
anxious to take advantage of his offer.
"I wind seven dollars and a half off o'
your las' dream, Mr. Evans," she said--"I'll
try you again, here's your half, now whis-
per me what's de gig to-day !"
Evans bent down his mouth close to the
ear of the hideous hag after he had received
he coin, and whispered numbers. She left
to buy a ticket at another ollice, for she
didn't want any of her companions to know
what her number was.
One after another paid Evans for infor-
mation as to what would be their luck that
day, and it is needless to say that they im-
plicitly believed him. He ofcourse helped
the lottery and policy dealers, for the most
of his credulous friends spent their last dime
in purchasing tickets.
*    *    *   *    *   s
How was it with our friend Brennon-
was he in "luck" that day. Yes, in good
luck as far as mere winning was concern-
ed, but in bad luck when we remember that
he was allowed to win only that he might
be led deeper into the snare of those who
sought his ruin. It was about elevent or
"lunch time" that Brennon as he promised,
met his friend Catlin, at the "Shades."

The face of the latter was flushed with tri
umph.
"I predicted you'd be in luck, Charley,'
he said, "and I've not made a false prophe
cy! You had the lucky numbers and havE
drawn ten thousand dollars !"
"Ten thousand dollars " gasped Bren
non-"TEN T~lO~JAND~ DOLLARS? You'r
joking!"
"Does this look like a joke ?" said Catlin
as he handed Brennon a roll of bank notes
--"there is every cent with only the dis
count off."
"Well--you are a prophet, by Jove I
didn't dream of this raood luck !"
"What'll you do with the money?" asked
Catlin
"I hardly know-I've some old scores to
pay !"
Brennon blushed as he said that, for the
"scores' he alluded to was the stolen money
he had taken from his father-in-law's safe,
which he was now about to return before
his misconduct (crime I had better 'say,)
had been discovered.
"They don't amount to much, I expect !"
said Catlin with assumed carelessness.
"No, not a great deal ; about nine hund-
red dollars 1"
'Well then, after clearing them up, I'd
advise you to buy your excellent and beau-
tiful lady a full set of diamond jewelry.
The ladies are always well pleased with such
marks of attention from their husband!"
"But Mr. Brent when he saw them on her
would at once ask how I could afford such
a purchase. Ie knows that I possess noth-
Ing beyond my salary !"
"Tell him that it is from the proceeds of
a legacy left you by a relative !".
"My wife who detests falsehood, would be
present and hear me most likely and I
should lose caste in her estimation. I've
many faults Catlin, but I possess one virtue
-I love her better than life!"
"But she'd for give a 'white fib' when she
gazed on the glittering gems !"
"I fear that I should see gems brighter
than them, tears glistening her eyes! Cat-
lin, Ialmost wish I hadn't drawn this prize!"
3

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AN) POLICY DEALERS.

-   "Why Charley what a mump you are !
But if you don't want the money, go give it
" to the first beggar you meet that can't speak
- English. You'll find a dozen between here
e and the next corner."
"Im not quite so much of a fool as that !
- I'll keep the money, buy the jewelry and
e invest the rest in---"
"Buying a dozen or two more packages
a of tickets!"
S   "No, no ! My promise to my wife forbids
that?"
"Poh---.when luck once turns in your fa-
vor it is sure to continue for a while. You
may win a fortune in a week-I'd not throw
a fortune away on such chances as you have
now !"
"Well, I'll take your advice Catlin. I e
know you are my friend, and now let us
'smile.' I feel dry with so much money in
my pocket!"
S"I think most men feel dryest when they
have none !" responded Catlin.
While they "smile," reader, we'll sigh
and travel into another chapter.
CHAPTER XIX.
ONCE more we'll take a glance at Mr.
Grab's office. As usual the clerks are busy
-not this time with their ledgers, but en-
gaged in sealing and folding circulars.
What were these circulars for and to whom
directed? Judge- by each clerk having a
directory before him of various towns ini
this and other states. And the circulars
were invitations to buy tickets, puffing the
"schemes" &amp;c. They were being directed,
bushels of them at that, in defiance of our
laws, to citizens whose names were found
in the Directories, for the purpose of draw-
ing more victims into the entangling meshes
of the lottery net. Not a rail leaves our
post office that does not contain thousands
of these infamous missives, sent forth to de-
coy the unwary. Beware of them. I have
no doubt but that thousands of my readers

3


=-
Y"
s
f
y  
' }}
}k
!
r  g   t_
i.

ii
I

"What, the Wall street man ?"         devil I"
T.  !lie has jnt sent to me to hail  "Some people think I am old Satan, dis-
him.   lie threatens to peach if I don't guised in a presentable shape !" said the
and to expose all our operations."      villian with a laugh. "But I must be off,
'Well he must c bailed ! It won't he I've plenty of work on my hands!"
over live or eight hundred dollars bail !"  "Yes, you're always here, there and every-
"Yes it will-the ease is before Barney where. I don't see how you are able to
Osborne, and he'll he bound to put it up to stand, so much work !"
at l'e:at three thousand. Hie is down on  "Because it pays !" said Catlin as he
ne !"                                  went from the room.
'W11, we'll have to Jail the man !"   Mr. Grab now felt easy again, and light-
'An lose the three thousand, ofcourse!" ing his cigar, seated himself on two chairs
II tier to lose that than get into a scrape as usual and took comfort.
that'll Iout us twenty thousand !'       A couple of hours later than this, Mr.
"You're rirht-Tullius. But I wish you'd Catlin sat in an easy chair in a room mag-
att ni to this matter, I don't want to be niticently furnished. But in its furniture it
km i in the businesss!'               bore a business air. An open desk reveal-
'Ill do it of course-when does the ex- ing packages of papers-account hooks, &amp;c.
amiaition come oi?"                 occupied one corner. A rosewood centre-
t three. this afternoon !"         table was covered with writing materials,
"I muuet get it laid over till to-morrow  loose letters, &amp;c., indicating that Mr. Cat-
m(rnin, then ! I hve an engagement at lin had an extensive correspondence. Fine
my privat' rooms at that hour, one which I pictures and mirrors adorned the walls. A
can't break as it is with a lady !"     Brussells carpet, from Anderson's choicest
"Oh. can't you lay aside your love affairs shelf, deadened the tread of the feet which
for business !"                        moved across it.   Chairs cushioned and
"Mine is no love affair, it is rather one of lined with satin ; sofasof velvet were there.
hate, of vengeance-I'll tell you the facts Everything betokened wealth and a luxuri-
some day perhaps-but I'll attend to Glen- ant taste. Catlin, ever richly dressed, was
dye's case. We must get him off and then on this occasion attired with unusually
get clear of him entirely-he hasn't caution studious care-he was expecting a visitor,
enough to suit our trade. By the way who and that visitor was Miss Constance Morley.
makes the charge Y"                     He evidently intended to make an impres-
"Young Morville of S. &amp; Co.'s--in Pearl sion. A door thatt led to an inner room
street."                                had been left open, and the eye glancing

34                       THE WIEEL OF M
have received such documents, perhaps
many of them have suffered from the same.
If they have, the old adage that "a burned
child dreads the fire," will I hope be re-
rnemlbere by them.
Mr. Grmah was pacing up and dawn the
room hurriedly, his manner evincing no
very :rood humor. At this moment Catlin
entered.
'-I'm lad you've come, T,llius !'' said
Grab-"we've more trouble on hand !"
'Tr'nhde t"' What is up now?
"Oh it is more of that cursed law! I
wih tihe members that passed it were choked
with the bill. Glendye has been arrested!"

rSFORTUNE  OR,
"Oh Jupiter-the whole affair lays in a
nut-shell now. We can settle the affair
without any trouble. Morville is a brother-
in-law to Alderman B    , and a nephew
of Judge D-    . We can clear Glendye
through their aid, for I possess a secret
about this same Morville that would give
his family rather unenviable notoriety.
When he and they become aware of what I
know, they'll sue for peace instead of prose-
cuting us. Why I can send him to Sing
Sing in a week!"
" Catlin, you anc a trump card ! But I'd
like to know how you find out so many se-
crets. You must be in league with the

TILE VICTIMS OF LOTTI
within could observe even a greater display
of luxury there. Paintings, if not quite
delicate, of a far more voluptous orde
adorned rits walls. The walls were n
painted or papered, they were hung wit
folds of pink satin which gave a mello
rosy'light to the room. The curtains ov
a couch in an alcove of the room were mad
of gold-colored satin, deeply fringed wit
lace. Everything else in the room corre
ponded with this in richness.
I have been thus particular in descrip
tion, because I wish to show what a letter
dealer can afford, how a man who but a fe
years since was a convicted thief, working
his time out in prison, who has until lately
lived literally "from hand to mouth," cat
"rise in the world" by becoming an agent
a useful agent in the heaviest and most in
famous traffic in this city, lottery and police
dealing.- My Tullius Catlin is no coinag
of the brain, his wealth, shrewdness an
talent in villany no picture of fiction-h
is alive, in the city, and I am only giving
the devil his due in every line I write about
him. And I am doing it and this task
exposing the Lottery League at a risk which
few would care to undertake. A million
of dollars capital, yes more, lays ready to
be used to crush me. The assassin's hire,
the lawyer's fee, the juror's bribe, the
judge's temptation, the poisoner's reward
are centred in the millions held by a few
men, who in open defiance of our laws are
ruining thousands of our citizens, robl/ng
the poor and swindling the rich, making
wreck of families, desolating once happy
homes. dragging young clerks into the dun-
geon, and breaking fond mother's, beloved
sister's and confiding wive's heart's.
But for the only reward which I ask, the
satisfaction of exposing.villany and assist-
ing virtue, I am content to run the risk.
Life is not, never can be dear to me, and
while I possess it I'll do my duty.
But back to my story : I must get loose
from the thread of my tale once in a while
to stick my needle into the cursed creatures
'       whom lam describing.
Mr. Catlia had not long remained in his

EITY AND POLICY DEALERS.              35
tY elegant parlor or office, before a liveried
sO servant, a negro as spruce as one of Mrs.
r, Stowe's favorite heroes, entered and an-
ot n9unced that Miss Morley was at the door
h waiting an audience.
W    "Ask the lady in !" said Mr. C.
er   She entered, looking more beautiful by
e far than on the two occasions when we have
h before met her. Her cheeks flushed by cx-
s- ercise in the open air, and probably too by
her prospect of lucrative and honorable
- employment, were like an opening rose-bud
y -her dark-blue eyes were bright as the
v ocean water when the sun rays dance over
g it. IIer tall, elegant form appeared to ad-
y vantage in the neat mourning dress which
n she wore. 11er little black bonnet set far
, enough back to reveal the faultless of her
- lassie brow. And withal she looked ma;
y jestically innocent. Oh how much true ma-
e jesty there is in the innocence of a woman.
i Even the heartless, brazen-faced libertine
e shrinks abashed from it and flies to seek a
suitable atmosphere in the presence of the
t flower, which, when its innocence perished,
f lost its fragrance.
"I am most happy to see you Miss Mor-
ley," said Catlin, bowing excessively low
to the lady as he handed her to a chair. "I
am also happy to see you so punctual to the
hour."
"I always keep my promise, Mr. Catlin,'
she replied, "and never make a promise that
I cannot keep !"
"And therein you are superior to many
of your sex-many of them make promises
which they never intend to keep!"
"Yes, Sir, such may be the case, but I
hope such specimens are few and far be-
tween?"
"They may be, I do' pot acknowledge to
much experience, for my business life allows
me but very little -time to mingle in the
society of ladies. Is your mother well ?"
"Quite well, I thank you Sir. Can I
commence the duties of the situation you
have so kindly offered me, to-day ?"
"Yes, Miss Morley, but at first they will
not be very arduous. I have only to request
you to copy in my letter book three letters

t I,

.


s
s
t
r
s
v   =          -
C
.k       -
s      -
4

k
56                      TnE WHEEL OF
which must be sent South by this evening's
mail. But ere I forget it, permit me to pay
your week's salary in advance. Here are
two eagles-"
"Oh, Sir, really-"
"Make no excuse Miss Morley--I remark-
ed before as a friend to your late father, I
felt a right to act like a friend to you."
The young lady took the money without
speaking. The emotion caused by the al-
lusion to her father whom she hrd so much
loved, was like a finger placed over her lips.
Mr. S. then handed the letters to her
which he wished copied, (which I need not
tell you reader, without you are very green,
were got up expressly for the occasion) and
said
"I am called out by business, and must
be absent an hour or two. My housekeeper,
Mrs. Caneouse, is out, but will be in shortly
and may afford you company enough to
keep you from being lonesome. She is a
good, kind old lady, I look upon her almost
as a nether! Though indeed I know not
what a mother is, for mine died while yet I
was a babe-my father also, and I have
grown up in the life-field alone!"
"I'm so sorry ! There is nothing in early
life like a dear father and mother !"
Constance uttered that sentence so feel-
ingly, so naturally. so sweet, that anything
less than a ruffian heart, case hardened in
the forge of hell, by the hand of Satan him-
self, must have felt the force of both tone
and words.
But Catlin, more hardened than the
Arch Fiend himself, insensible to pity aslhe
was to honor, felt not even the breath borne
from the t sweet flower, by the gentle zep-
hyrs of sympathy.
lHe left the apartment. Did Constance at
once sit down to her task of copying those
letters? No. Woman from the time that
Eve wanted to taste the forbidden fruit in
the garden of Eden, has been afflicted with
curiosity. She seems to take the disease
naturally and never to care the price of a
brass pin or a broken heart for the conse-
quences. And our sweet Constance, like
all pretty girls, had her share of it. (Ladies,

MISFORTUNE! oR ,
don't get mad at me, for you've not got a
better friend in the world than Ned is, cruel-
ly as a portion of your sex have treated me.)
Constance, when Mr. Catlin left, took a
look at all the pictures in the parlor, ex-
amined the furniture &amp;c.; not satisfied with
this, she peeped into the inner room.
"How rich he must be " she murmured.
"And he is handsome-he is intelligent, he
dresses well !" she added.
Did not Catlin understand woman-nature
when he left her there alone. IIe did and
the first seeds of his design were already
sowed in her pure young heart. lie had
excited the two first of the three most
dangerous parts in the composition of a
woman. First her s/mpnathy, next her ad-
miration.  The other dangerous part is
love ! Why so?  Because though it is the
father of happiness, it is the step-mother of
jealousy. But I don't know enough of the
subject to philosophise on love, so I'll quit.
Constance, after her brief survey, seated
herself at the table and commenced copy-
ing the letters. She had nearly finished the
task, when the door opened, and an elderly
lady, plainly and neatly attired, entered the
room. Constance was pleased with her first
look at the lady, she looked so kind and
amiable.
The latter spoke first
"You are the young lady, Miss, that Mr.
Catlin has employed as a writer?"
"Yes Madam?"
"I'm glad to see you, he speaks so highly
of you and your mother! I am his house-
keeper-after you are done writing, I hope
you will come down in my room and have
a friendly chat with me, I'm quite lone-
some !"
"I will with pleasure, Madam. Have you
been long with Mr. Catlin V"
"Yes, for many years. Ie is a kind good
young man, and so moral in his principles!"
"'It is strange that he don't get married !"
said Constance.
"So it is, but I've often heard him say he
would never give his hand where his heart
could not accompany it !" replied Mrs.
Caneouse. "Yes," she added, "and I've

heard him say that he'd rather marry a gir
who had not a cent in the world or a second
dress in her wardrobe, if she loved him, than
an heiress who did rot !"
Reader, I'm getting tired of this chapter
we'll let the women have their talk out, by
therniselves, and go elsewlire for amuse
meant.
I wilf only for supposition's sake "guess'
that Constance Movley and her mother had
a good supper that night, and that if she
had any dreams, they were about her sup.
posed benefactor.
CIIAPTER XX
Mn. ANTHON was down in the kitchen
smoking his pipe, close in the chimney cor-
ne. It was a vulgar practice for a weal-
thy merchant, but he could afford it. And
Le did it decently, for he wasn't smoking
in the parlor.
Mrs. Deborah was seated with her knit-
ting work in the other corner. In the par-
lor above were the M'sses Eugenia and
Lydia. They were not alone. Mr. Augus-
tus Vanroy, Mr. Anthon's new partner, was
stated near Lydia; his friend Mr. Dennison
w    'ated close by Eugenia. Now neither
of he parties were unfriendly, yet each
couple were seated in opposite corners of
the room. And they were speaking low,
in whispers-perhaps telling each others
secrets. I'll let young folks guess what
they were talking about and go and see the
"old folks at home" in the kitchen.
"Mrs. Deborah!" said Mr. Anthon, as he
shook the ashes from his pipe and proceed-
sd to refill it for the third time-
"What do you think of the young folks
up stairs?"
Mrs. Deborah proceeded to raise her spec-
tasles from her nose, that she might see her
master, and laying down her knittingwork,
said:
"You know I 'ore the gals, they are good
creeteir, Mr. Anthon 3"

THE VIGTNS OP LOTTERY AND POLICY DEhALERS.

"Yes, fine girls-fine girls,but the young
d men, what of them, eh ?"
a "You want me to tell just what I think ?'
"Of course I do!"
"Well, I like that Mr. Dennison, he seems
to me like the bible, every varse you read
- you can understand.  e is a proper nice
young man. He speak plain out and haint
got no manners like as if he thought he was
above folks. And he looks folks right in
the eye when he talks to 'em, just as if ho
- wasn't afeard his eyes would call his tongue
a liar when it spoke !"
"But you don't speak of my partner, Mr.
Vanroy!" said Mr. Anthon as he picked up
a coal with a pair of tongs and lighted his
pipe.
"You want me to tell justwhat I think?"
"Of course I do, go on!"
"Wall now, don't be spunky about it Mr.
Anthon, but I don't like him, and I'm sorry
he's setting' up towards Miss Liddy, for I
like the gal and I'm awful afeard he'll make
her poor little heart ache yet. He speaks
too soft, like as if he had grease and 'lasses
in his mouth, and when he talks to anybody
his eyes keep a journeyin' 'round the room.
I like folks to look me right in the eyes
when they talk to me. I'm afeard that fel-
ler won't turn out no good !"
"But Mrs. Deborah he has the best of re-
commendations."      l
"I don't keer for any recommendations,
you asked me to tell you just what I think-
ed, and what I thinked I've said. I know,-
as my cousin Deacon Grant says, of himself,
that I'm a. poor weak sepulchre of clay
and prone to go astray as I travel on the
way, but ef that are seller don't turn out to
be a mean creeter, I'll keep house for you
all next year for nothin' I"
"Ah there's a ring at the door bell-go
up and see who is there ?"
"The old lady lowered her spectacles up-
on the well-worn saddle of her nose, laid
down her knitting work and travelhid.
In a moment she returned. She had a
letter in her hand.
"Here's suthin' a woman left for you,
Sir I" she said.

I'
I    jI
I
tE~

t

r


SeTII  WHEE~L OFN M3ORiT1N OR,

"A woman Y" said Mr. Anthon in surprise.
ie was not in the habit of being bothered
by notes from ladies. (Now don't get mad
at me about that word "bother," ladies.)
"Yes," said Mrs Deborah, 'a female cree-
ter I think, 'cause she had a frock and bon-
net on. I couldn't see her face, she had her
veil down I She jist said-' Does Mr. An-
thon live here?' I said 'Yes m'm, he does!'
Then she said 'Giye him this note,' and off
she went. That's all!"
Mr. Anthon opened the note. Its con-
tents if not unpleasant, at least agitated
him for he dropped his pipe on the hearth,
where it was shivered into many pieces'
"La, suz !" there you've smashed your
pipe!" said Mrs. Deborah.
1cr master still gazed with an agitated
countenance upon the letter.
"It can't be !" he muttered.
"Yes you've drapped it at your feet !"
continued the old lady.
"I must go an- see him instantly?" mut-
terel Mr. Authon again. not heeding Mrs.
Deborah.
"Want yer hat and overcoat and injun
rubbers, I spouse , ef you're going' out ?"
"I-mnot going out, woman-for the Lord's
sake don't bother mc !" cried Mr. Anthon
as with the open letter in his hand he left
the room.
"Marcy's sakes! My gracious! 'Woman,'
he called me ! Not 'bother' him! What on
the airth can be the matter. He's a goin'
crazy, or else  -oh, that creeter that
brought the letter may be at the bottom o'
this pickle tub? There's suthin'.strange-
.       maybe that are man i8 agoin' to git married!
If he is I'll never speak to him aging! Ill
find out, see ef I don't !"
We'll leave Mrs. Deborah to her wonder-'
ings and follow flr. Anthon to the parlor.
When he went in he called to Vanroy.
"Will you step here a moment, Mr. Van-
roy-I have received a letter which con-
cerns odr firm, and it requires our mutual
attention I"
The young man excused himself to the
fair girl by whom he had been seated and
stepped over to where Mr. Anthon was

standing. The latter handed him the letter,
open, narrowly scanning his countenance as
he commenced reading it. For an instant
a flush of anger flew like lightning over his
face-then, he was calm as before, but he
bit his lips till the blood ran.
"Mr. Anthon !"said he in a low tone, "this
is the work of some infamous secret enemy.
The charge is false-tell me how it came
into your hands ?"
"A veiled female left it here a few min-
utes since !"
"Some creature hired by an enemy who
either envies me my good fortune, or whom
I have offended-some would-be rival either
in my love or prosperity !"
"But who could you have offended here?
Lydia never has received marked attentions
from any one else !"
"True Sir. there is some mystery wnich I
cannot unravel. But rest assured that the
charge is false. I am no deceiver-you
have vouchers for my character which no
man can doubt-pray let me look elosely at
this letter, let me keep it till morning, I
may discover a clue to the hand-writing
from among letters from my many corres-
pondents-oh that I could find the origina-
tor of so base a trick !"
"Keep the letter till morning!" said Mr.
Anthon-"bat I shall want it then, for I
must be satisfied in this matter !"
"You shall have it, Sir ! I hope you'll
not mention the matter to anybody else !"
"Certainly not-certainly not, I hope all
will he right !"
Mr. Anthon returned to the kitchen to fill
another pipe and to ponder.
Vanroy returned to the side of Lydia-
only to announce that sudden business call-
ed him out and then turned to excuse him-
self to Dennison and the other lady.
"It must be important business to call you
from us at such an early hour!" said Miss
Eugenia.
"It is, I regret to say !"
"Then, perhaps I may be of service let
me accompany you!" said Dennison.
"No, it is not of a nature to reguire a

'I YiCTTMsP O' LoTTERY ANP POLICY DEA.ERS.           4S
friend, but thanks for the offer!" said Van- to plot and ponder, you wend your wt , to
-roy.                    ,             your lodgings ; I will to mine!"
"No thanks, my dear Augustus, if the  "You'll plotnothing dishonorable,Ibopel
ladies can excuse your presence I am sure Remember, I love Eugenia, anfd any miscon-
they can mine !"                      duct on your part would reflect on me and
'Well as you will, if they will in turn ac- injure my chance of marriage with her."
cept from us a morning's call 1" and he "And do not I love Lydia? Are not my
bowed low to the ladies,              hopes of fortune all embraced within the
"Certainly !" said Lydia. "It is a motto circle of her love and my connection with

of our dear father, that business should al-
ways take the precedence of pleasure!"
The young men made their adieus, warm
ones too, they seemed to be, and departed.
"What business can call you out so sud-
denly and so late ?" asked Dennison of his
companion.
"Something too important to neglect !
You are aware that I have a mistress!"
"Yes, but you told me that influenced by
virtuous love you had cast her off! That
for Lydia's sake, as I for that of my angelic
Eugenia, you had cast aside your follies,
sins I might as well call them ?"
"So.I have, butt the vixen won't be cast
off, without revenge; she has written to
Anthon to-night !"
"Did you not provide for her when you
sent her away" -
"Of course, I did, like a man and a gent-
leman!"
"What has she written to him?"
"A letter which I have in my pocket,
stating that she has heard that I am court-
ing a protegee of his, and that if so she
wishes to inform him that I am not only a
villain and libertine, but am married al-
ready, as he can be satisfied by having an
interview with her, which if he wishes he
can have by addressing her to the initials
which she signs in the letter !"
"Why Gus, this is a serious matter!"
"'ll make it serious; before I'm done with
it," muttered Vanroy to himself, then rais-
ing his tone, he said: "Yes, Dennisony it is
unpleasant. Can you advise me how to ar-
range it ?"
"Why, Gus, really I don't know what to'
do, or what to say !"
.      "Then my dear boy, the wisest thing is
for you to do or say nothing ! Leave me

Mr. Anthon Y"
"Yes, yes! Forgive me Gus, if an un-
worthy suspicion ever crossed my mind for
an instant I"
"Oh'twas, 'tis nothing, Dennison-be as-
sured that I'm all right ; now here at this
corner we part until morning I"
"Yes, good night-meet me at my lodg-
ings at ten, for our visit to to our two little
goddesses t"
"Ten shall be the hour. .1u revoir?"
Thus, for the night the two young men
separated.
CHAPTER XXL
AUousvus VANaoY stood once more in his
own room, and before him stood Laura, her
whom I described in the eleventh chapter,
his Heaen-wedded wife.
Tell me not, that no marriage is binding
save that which by some hollow-headed
hireling in sacerdotal garb is performed, or
that by some official who only knows his
duty by the fee it allows, is done. That
words uttered by one of these, and vows
made before witnesses who an hour thehce
may be stricken down with death, alone
render a marriage legal in the sight of Gen
and unto rn acceptable !
The vows made when a loving, confiding
woman unto a man vows like her to be
forevertrue and faithful, are as binding in
the eye of God, as those uttered before a
multitude, for ME is the witness, nIE who is
ALL JUST-ALL POWERFUL !
It is true that Augustus Vanroy was not
married to Laura according to the form pre-
scribed by mon, yet not the less was she his

/

S

I

38


TSB !4TfKS ! OW  I'ERY ANDa POLICY DSALISUS.

wife in the eight of God. There in its little
criblay the sweet pledge which the Almighty
had given them as a proof of their marriage
-their innocent, beautiful boy. And base,
inhumanly heartless would be he who would
disown so binding a wedlock, desert so good
a wife, so fair a child! Yet to do both of
these did Augustus Vanroy seek.
As I said (when I commenced this chap-
ter,) he stood before Laura. The letter was
in hi. hand. He was pale as a drift of snow.
She was calm, as ealn as tue child which
lay asleep in its crib near where she was
standing. lie, too, was calm, but unnatur-
ally so ; like the atmosphere just before a
heavy storm breaks forth.
"Laura, did you write this letter ?" he
asked in a low tone, almost hoarse from his
endeavor to choke his anger.
"Yes, and delivered it, Gus !"
"Fiends of hell t You acknowledge it
then)"
"I do!"
"What did you mean by it? Why have
you thus trampled upon my nearest inter-
"Not hecanse I loved you, Gus ! That
love, by your neglect and cruelty, has been
almost crushed in my heart. I did it for
my child's sake-for the sake of that child
which never had been born had you not
promised to make it legitimate !"
"Curse the  -"
"Stop-stop Augustus Vanroy !    You
may curse me, but you shall not curse our
offspring ! I have watched you for weeks,
and I know all. I not only know that you
are trying to deceive and rob a good old
man of his fortune, but also that you are
trying to marry, and have already like a
villain-nay frown not. I mean it; like a
villain won the love of a warm-hearted

frame seemed to quiver with agitation.-
Soon with a voice low and gentle, almost
in a sobbing tone, he said:
"Laura, you are right, I have done wrong.
I do not ask you to forgive me, but I will
sacrifice all to make you happy ; this very
night we will leave Boston. I will fly from
her, from him, from all temptation-live
only for our child and you!1"
Long and earnestly did the woman scan
his features before she spoke. He looked
as earnestly as he spoke, but one who has
been once deceived doubts forever there-
after.
"You do not mean what you say, Gus !"
she said mournfully. "Once I would as
soon have doubted a minister from the pul-
pit, or disbelieved my own eyes as doubt
the smallest word you uttered-now I can-
not believe you. Oh Gus, how you have
altered since-since the time you lo-eed
me 1"
Tears started in her eyes when she said
this.
"Dear Laura I" said Yanroy, "I love you
still ; ambition has led me astray. I want-
ed to be rich, to be an aristocrat, to shine
brighter than the brightest, stand higher
than the highest, prouder than the haughti-
est of them all. In my ambition I forgot
you-"
"And that poor child. Your boy, Gus,
your boy-my beautiful baby !"
She bent over the crib and kissed tne bud-
ding lips of the sleeping cherub The scald-
ing tears which fell upon its rose-leaf cheek
awakened it. Opening its blue eyes, it
looked wonderingly around for an instant,
but when it recognised its father, it looked
as a child only can look when its young
heart inhales the first perfume of natural
affection, and lisped:

young girl whom you intend to marry that  "Papa, tum tiss Frankey!"
you may get with her a fortune. I have  That father did go and kiss Fra - .--
watched with vigilance, and I know all I" He who could have refused it w uld have
The manner of the skilful libertine been less than human, more than ' ad.-
changed. A blush suffused his cheek. His And there by the little bed of their only
eyes were down-cast. Hcr words seemed babe knelt those two parents. But oh how
to have an impression on him. He sat down different were their hearts. The woman,
sad covered his face with his hands. His who according to the creed of the world,

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.                41
was a lost and irredeemable sinner, one to which it will be our only pleasure to live to
be despised and shunned by her sex, an out- make each other happy-some secluded
cast from society, forbidden even the chance home, where none may enter to cloud our
to repent, -was regarding her child with a joy, where temptation way never appear 1"
holy, yearning, undying love ; she was   "Will you do this Gus ?"
ready to extend the christian hand of for- "Yes, by our child' 1. swear I will!'1
giveness to him wha had wronged her so   0 how radiantly beamed out the glow of
deeply ; she was as true to him as e'er a happiness on that mother's face as she heard
wife was to her lord, who had been wededd his words. How burningly warm withpure
in the lordliest pile ever erected for wor- affection were the kisses which she showered
ship in the land,                      like handfull's of passion-flowers on his lips,
Anl le, who even there was shedding his brow, his eyes, his cheeks.   Laura
hypocrite tears-who had plotted and etf was happy once more! Oh woe-woe to
fected her ruin-who was then framing in the wretch who could awaken a trusting
his mind a plan to rid himself of her forever, woman from such a dream.
by th- same creed of the world, was admissi-  He returud her kisses, but while hers
ble to society, even when it knew his crimes, were warm and unnumbered, his were cold
"=faults" the world creed-calls them.   and measured by penny-weights.
Curse such a creed! Oh if I had not    "I will go and see if Ican get a carringe,"
some to love who love me because I-to them he said, "for we leave Boston within an
am linked in kindred, whose blood circles hour !"
through my veins, a dear father, mother and "v11 pack the things, and dress our sweet
sister, I'd fly as fast as steam and wind and boy!1"
all else could carry inc to a purer society-  "Franky go da--da?" asked the child.
that of the Wild Red Warriors of the West,  "Yes, Mama and Papail take Frankey
who living by Nature's laws, live purer, to ride!" said the fond mother kissing the
better, nobler lives than any member of the beautiful boy w!ise face was like its moth-
society which is governed by the world- other's lit with the glow of pleasure.
creed. There they require no prisons, have  Vanroy left the house, and she at once
no poor houses. There a liar is so seldom          the    ho    an
seen that they know not what kind of a prepared for the midmght journey,
beast he is. The world-creed has made an
Indian of me in heart. I often wish I was
one by birth, for I hate the "Pale Faces."
But forgive my digression.                      CHAPTER XXII.
When Laura observed- Vanroy's tears,
her heart seemed to yield to its unbelief.  WHENVanroy left the hotel, he hastened
"Do not weep, dear Augustus," she said, to a house in Ann street. It bore a dingy
"I did not miean to hurt your feelings.-- aspect outside and a sign at the door an-
You know I would die for you. You said nounced that money was loaned there on
yc.u would go from this place with me !"  deposit; otherwise meaning, that it was a
"Yes, to-night, now-the sooner I fly regular pawnbroker's shop.
from temptation the better," he replied.  The door was closed and the window-
Where will we go to !"             shutters also. Vanroy knocked at the door.
"I'll order a carriage and we'll drive out At first no answer was returned. Ie then
to a small village near the Worcester Road, knocked more heavy and impatiently. A
where at a hotel we can remain till I close window opened in the second story, a head
my partnership with Anthon and    e the was popped out and a shrill, querulous
aecessary preparations, then we  n start voice asked :
for the West or South and find a home in  "Who ish dat-vat you wants?"

I

I

V

E_


42

TllE WlEEuIL OF MISPOWIUNE y On,

"A friend who wants to see Ishmael Gry-
pesdyte I"
"Dat ish me, but I 'ave got no fronts-go
away you dish night, den comes to-morrow
morning if you vants to see me 1"
Down went the window.
"Curse the infernal Dutch Jew, I must
have him out-he is the only one that can
carry me through this scrape ?" cried Van-
roy as with renewed energy he recommen-
ced "knocking at the door."
Up went the window once more and out
came the head of the bearded Ishmael.
"Tousand duyvels ! I tell you come to-
morrow-what you want's ?"
"I have a message from Tullius Catlin,
for you t"
The name seemed to sound like magic on
the llebrew's ears.
"Dullius Gatlin, oh mine coot front ?
"Ycs--open the door quick, I'm in a hur-
ry 1"
"Oh di.en I come down soon ash directly,
quick like one gat !"'
In a few moments the door was opened
and Vanroy entered the house. After lock-
ing the door behind him thy Jew turned and
examined his visitor closely by the light of
the tallow candle which he held in his hand.
A strange looking creature was hhmael.
A diminutive body, lean ani dried up, was
capped by a very large head whichwas
bald and shone like one of the polished
skulls in Fowler's window. Ills little black
eyes peered out from under a cliff of grey
eyebrows-his features were as Jewish as
Iscariot's, the skin of his face looked like a
piece of smoked parchment, shrivelled into
wrinkles by the tire. his dress was shabby
and dirty.
"So, Mishter-you pe come from Dullius
Gatlin, eh vat rants my coot front?"
"lie wants nothing, I want something, he
told me if ever I needed aid, to come to you,
say but the word 'Hagar' and you would
help me!'"
The Jew started at the mention of the
name. but replied :
"Yesh, dat ish a coot word-Isuppose you
aced monish. Dat I lends on coot security !"

"No, I do not want money, I've more now
than I know what to dowith I I want your
assistance and I'm willing to pay for it,
roundly too!"
The Jew's eyes snapped as he heard pay
spoken of.
"Vat can I do for you, Mishter?"
"First I want a carriage and a driver who
can be depended on to keep a secret !"
"Dat can I get. Mine frent Cleeson keep
a coot one and trives for himself-he ish
one of us !",
"Then I want to know where I can put a
woman and child away for a day or two, till
we can arrange matters to get them out of
the country, or out of my way in sonicm an-
ner. Some family on whom we can depend.
or some tavern in the country, where they
will tell her all I want them to tell her and
no more, and keep a watch that she don't
get off while I'm away !"
"You ish in troiihle mit dis woman?
Yesh, I see-but you tell me everytings,
den I shall know vat I shall dink it is pette'
to do !"
"Well to be brief, for I'm in a hurry.
the woman is my mistress. I have a mar-
riage in view with a wealthy lady, I an in
a fair way to get very rich, but she is jeal-
ous, thwarts me, and if I don't get her out
of the way she'll break off my marriage and
ruin ame!"
"Yesh, I see ! Let me tink one moments!
Um--s'phose you have her lock up in one
nice little country seat. dat I 'ave got.
apout ten miles from de city, eh- We can
keep her dare till you get married, den she
may not trouble you no more !"
"Will she be secure'?"
"Dc same as my monish, in mine safe !"
"I do not want her ill treated !"
"Oh no--no, eve'ypody knows old Ish-
mael has de coot heart? But what you
give, oh ?'
'Five hundred dollars down when the
carriage is ready, five hundred more when I
am assured that she is safely housed-twen-
ty-tive dollars a week while she is kept
there, and if'you can get her abroad to Eu-
rope or elsewhere, so that I never shall see

-c
r. g

THE VICTIhIS of LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.             43
her or the child again, Iwill pay $5000 down bristles, like them sticking out every way
on the day of my marriage!"           they pleased.
"Pat I will agree to!" said the Jew, after Its face was ashy pale, its features coarse
studying a moinent-"Yesh, dat will agree and repulsive. To add to its ugliness, it
to, Misther ! But you did not tell me your was clothed in filthy rags, the cast off gar-
name Mishtcr-vat security I can have-d? meats of a beggar, one would suppose. It
security ish de ting, de security !"  hobbled or shuffled up to its master, and
"Here is your security !" said Vanroy, grunted out:
handing him five one hundred dollar notes "What you want ?"
-"My naman is Augustus Vanroy-I am a    "I want you to sleep mit poth your eyes
partner with Anthon the shipping merchant. open till I come pack !" replied Ishmael.
I ask no security from you, for I am secure "Let nobody comes mit in de door."
in my knowledge that you are a receiver of "Yesh !" said the creature, (man nor boy
stolen goods, keep a 'fence' for 'eross-men' I can't conscientiously call him.) "Yesh
and have now got most of the swag of the misther Ishmael, Squinterduybel knows
Dorchester bank robbery stowed away safe dat."
till it can be used. Now don't go into fits, The Hebrew put on a rough over-coat
friend Ishnmael, I only tell you this to show and sallied foi-th with Vanroy, leaving his
you what I know. I don't use my know- place under the guard of his hideous Cali-
ledge to ask a favor, I'm willing to pay my ban.
way !"
"Mein Cot in himmels ! Vat a mans you
ish, Miahter Vanroy ! Weliden, I likes you
potter now ash pefore ! I vii do dish tings
for you ; yesh, Ivii do dem up ! Come mit       CHAPTER XXII.
me, we vii get do carriage-I vii go mit
you mineself! But wait till I call mine
washman. Squinterdaybel! Squinterduy-   IT was morning once more. Vanroy was
bell You tam lazy tog, for not why you in the counting room as usual at nine. But
hear !"                               he looked pale and jaded-his, eyes were
No answer being given to this appeal to red, and the swollen semi-circles beneath
his watchman, the Jew went to a corner them showed that he had not slept the night
where a pile of old quilts and rags appeared before.
to he heaped, and gave the mass a kick.--  "Are you not well this morning ?" asked
Something moved, then something appear. Mr. Anthon, noticing the appearance of his
ed. If it was human, it would have been young partner.
no sin to bow down to it, for neither graven "Not very ; I could not sleep last night,
inlage, or .thing above ty earth or beneath I kept thinking of that infamous letter.--
it, ever resembled the creature that with a Here it is-I can trace no resemblance to
grunt, got up from its nest.          the handwriting among my correspondence,
it had legs-very short ones-both turn- nor can I imagine who should wish to so
ed out at the knees into an angle ; arms, cruelly wrong me."
long enough to reach-to its feet; a body  "It is strange-very strange 'If a wo-
broader than it was long, with a flesh knap- man hadn't brought it I should believe it
sack on the back, and a head bigger than to be some hoax merely got up to annoy us
the body, hump and all thrown in. It had both."
two eyes, and it seemed as if they loved  "So I yet think it is. But the best way
each other, for they looked directly at one to test it and to clear me from this base yet
another and kept no "leo/c-out ahead."- baseless charge is to write to the person as
Hair it also h:d, red as fire, coarse as hogs I directed in the letter. Ask an interview,

I
5i

41


TIE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE ; On,

and Jet me be present at it, if indeed one
is granted."
"You are right, my young friend, you are
right, and this willingness to meet the test,
and anxiety to have the matter looked into
is my best guarantee that you are innocent
of the charge. In fact I would not press
the matter any further but it is my duty as
the temporary guardian of my young pro-
tegees. Their father looks to me for their
safety while they are under my roof, and
he is a dear friend of mine. I can see that
Lydia loves you-"
"And dearly do I love her!"
"I believe you do,.ugustus, and I hope
you will both be happy, very happy. I
think as much of the girls as if they were
my own daughters."
"They are both noble girls. By the way
if there is nothing particular for me to do
this morning, I should like to call with my
friend l)emiison to apologise for my sudden
departure lnst night !"'
Certainly, my boy, certainly do so. I
- can get along with the business with the aid
of the hook-keeper ; our mail is light this
morning, only three or four letters to an-
swer. l1nt he in as soon as you can, I want
to be on 'Change to day at twelve. I heard
a hint yesterday that some stock which I
want would be in market."
"I'll not be gone more than an hour and
a halt,'" said Vanroy as he left.
"Whiat a nice young man," murmured
Anthon as he watched the receeding form
of his partner.
Yes, one of TmiE "nice young men" was
Mr. Augustus Vanroy.
When, according to his appointment, Van-
roy met Dennison, the latter as usual re-
ceived him with manly cordiality.
"What news, this morning, Gus ?" he
asked.
"Nothing particular, only I've been up
all night, and feel like a singed eat this
morning. I travelled over twenty miles
between the time we parted last night and
daylight this morning."
"The deuce, you say! Why what have
you been about?"

"Getting that woman off into the country.
She consented to go last night, and for fear
she'd change her mind, I concluded to take
her while she was in the humor !"
"So then all is settled now ?"
"Yes, I am safe-I advised Mr. Anthon
to write to his annonymous correspondent.
Of course he'll get no answer, the matter
will be considered a hoax, and all will
blow over. The girls will never know any-
thing about it. Now if you'll wait till I can
make a barler renovate my outward ap-
pearance, I'm at your service for that v
"I'll remain in the reading room till you
return."
CHAPTER XXIV.
"I'vE brought something home to show
you, my sweet wife," said Charles Brennon
on the evening of the day on which he was
permitted to draw a prize in the lottery.
"What is it, dear Charles !" said the lady
smiling as only fond woman can smile.
"Look at these." he answered, exhibiting
a case of jewels.
"Oh goodness, how brilliant, how beau-
tiful !" she cried. "Why they are dia-
nmonds "
"Certainly-is it not a magnificent set.
Ear-rings, a bracelet, a finger ring worth
alone $500, a necklace of pearl, emerald,
turquoise and diamond interspersed, and a
pin-the whole se  is valued at $5000 !"
"Indeed ! How brilliant will the lady
that wears them appear when at a ball or
evening party, she appearsin a well lighted
room !"
"She will indeed. She is very beautiful,
but these ornaments will add to her beauty,
queenly as she now is."
"Do I know her ?"
"Yes, quite intimately. You and her
were school-girls together-she is married,
and is one of the best of wives."
"Who can it be? Do tell me Charles i"

THE VICTIMS OT LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.              45
"I thought you saidyou had no curiosity,  "I shall never wear them, Charles ?" she

the other day, love."
"Well, in this case I acknowledge an ex-
ception."
"Will you get angry if I tell you that this
lady loves me very much ?"
"No, but I won t believe you."
'That she kissed me this very morning."
"Charles!"
x        "That I kissed her back, and told her that
I loved her."
"Charles this a cruel jest-you are only
trying to tease me."
"I was never more serious in my life,.
Mary-it is true-but now, now don't let a
tear till your eyes. I'll show you the lady's
portrait, if you won't cry !"
"Well show it to me,.I want to see her."
Mrs. Brennon's voice was not quite so
kind and sweet as usual when she said this,
and her face did not wear its ever-radiant'
hue of gladness. But when her husband
led her before the mirror and pointing to
her the reflection of her own beautiful face,
and kissing her fondly said, "that is the
lady who kissed me, whom  I kissed in re-
turn, and whom I love ;" she could not
help smiling.
T"ou cruel rogue," she said, "I didn't
know what to make of you, you acted so
seriously. But the jewels, who do they be-
long to ?"
"To you,,my own dear wife."
"To me, Charles? Surely father cannot
have made inc such a present ?"
"No, he has never seen them. I bought
them for you."
"You, Charles? Why whereon earth did
you get the money? You surely have not
gone in debt to make me such a costly and
unnecessary gift?"
"No, I paid cash for them?"
"Charles, please explain. There is some
mystery in this."
"None at all dear Mary-you remember
the lottery tickets ?"
"Yes and they-"
"Drew a prize of ten thousand dollars for
me. I have used a part of this money to
k       buy these jewels which will so become youl"

replied in a subdued, sad, but firm tone.
"Never wear them, Mary? Why but now
you admired them so much, and seemed to
envy the lady who was to possess them."
"I did, do still admire them ; they are
very beautiful, but I repeat my husband,
that I can never wear them."
"'Why, dear Iarmy ?"
" because they have been purchased by
the proceeds of a wrong, an illegal specula-
tion. I would not dare to look father in
the face when I wore these."
"But he need never know that they were
the proceeds of a prize in the lottery."
"He knows, Charles, the precise amount
of your salary-lhe also knows that you
have no other means. How could you ac-
count for so rich, so extravagant a pur-
chase "
"Why tell him a distant relative has died
and left me money. I mean to invest the
rest in the business of the house if he will
let me."
"Charles, would you stoop to utter a
falsehood ?"
"Not exactly a wilful falsehood, my dear
wife, but this would not be such. It is only
a harmless deceit, a white fib, you know."
"I know no difference in untruths,
Charles. All are black to me. You know
how I abhor deceit. You have changed if
you do not."
"I am not changed, Mary ; but I have
this money. Fortune has smiled upon me
and it would seem wrong to scorn favors so
seldom bestowed."
"I wish she had frowned, rather than
smiled upon you, Charles-I would rather
share a cot in poverty with you and labor
by your'side, than live in a palace on means
gained by such a way as this was. Charles,
cannot you return the money ?"
"Not when more than half of it is spent
to buy for you this present!"
"Will they not take back the jewels and
refund the money ?"
"No, dear Mary-it is a maxim in trade
never to retract or back out from a good
bargain. , They have the cash for the gems

44


46                      TiE WHEEL of:
and will keep it. Now dearest, promise
me that you will wear them!1"
"On but one condition, Charles!"
"V liat is that?"
"That you go to my father and confess
to him what you have done, and, that he
consents to my retaining them 1"
"IIlOSsilelC, dear Mary-he would be
angry, I should lose his confidence, perhaps
my situation, at least my chance of a part-
nership in the concern
"No, father is too kind-hearted to do that.
While he condemns a fault, he isever ready
to forgive it !"
Brennon was about to reply, but ere he
could do so, Mr. Brent who using a famil-
iarity excusable in a father-in-law, had en-
tered the front door, without knocking,
come into the room.
Charles would have closed or removed
the jewel case, but he had no time to do so.
Mr. Bri nt's eye fell upon them as they lay
open on the table.
"ey day, what have you got here. clil-
dren ?" he said. "Why on my word they're
brilliants! who do these costly gew-gaws
belong to ?"
Brennon was about to speak, but his
wife pure as she was beautiful, and sensitive
to his honor, spoke first.
'My kind husband is trying to persuade!
me to accept them dear, father!"
"l'oh-poh-he cannot atlord such pre-
sents. Why these jewels are worth more
than a year's salary-yes two of 'em 1" he
added, as he again examined them. "He
could never pay for them in the world, and
Charles you know how often I've cautioned
you not to go in debt -"
"But father, these are already paid for. I
got them for my Mary. not to add to her
beauty, but to let the world see she has
a husband who loves her and who does not
wish to see her outrivalled in splendor by
any lady in the land!"       .
'Pa.J for them !" said the old gentleman,
keenly scrutinizing the countenance of his
son-in-law: "Paid for them-Charles, how
much did they cost?"
"Five thousand dollars, Sir !"

MISFOHrTUNE ; OR,
"And pray where did you get five thou-
sand dollars?"
The old gentleman's brow clouded as he
asked the question. Perchance suspicions
of broken trust flashed through his brain.
"Dear father, I will explain !" said the
young wife.
"No, Mary, mine has been the wrong, let
me also suffer the humiliation of making
the explanation !" said Charles, blushing as
red as carnation.
. "The wrong? why what on earth have
you been doing ?"
"Father, I bought a lottery ticket and it
drew a ten thousand dollar prize !"
"A lottery ticket/! Charles llrennon. have
I not often told you that lottery and policy
dealing was the most dangerous kind of
gambling, that it was delusive yet tempt-
ing, that it drew its victims on with pleasant
hopes till it got them entangled in ruin's
net, whence they can never extricate them-
selves ?"
"You have, father, but on this occasion
I was sorely tempted-I wanted to make
my Mary a bridal present worthy of her,
and for a few shillings, I have been enabled
to do so, and have now nearly four thousand
dollars in hand which I thought would be
useful in your business, especially as even
Wall street now groans under a pressure
for money ."
"Never a cent of money so gained should
go into my business, Sir !" said the old
man sternly.
"Dear father,"-and a soft hand was
gently laid upon his arm, and a pair of
tearful blue eyes looked up into his, and
a pair of ruby lips quivered over their pearly
petals, like the leaves of the red-i ose in the
morning  breeze-"Dear Father forgive
him. It is his first offence. I know it will
be his last !"
"Hlowdo you know that? It is a temp-
tation which grows on men-my daughter !"
said the father as he tenderly kissed the
forehead of his sweet good child.
"I know it father, because he has already
promised, yes sworn it shall be his last error

THE VT TMR OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALER                   4
lather see how bad he feels, forgive him or present to Mary. He loves her, is a good
,o' will break my heart !"           husband, I'll raise his salary  $500 to-
She bursts into tears as she said this, and morrow, ifhe keeps right for three months,
while she twined her arms around his neck, I'll make him a full partner. And he offered
the hot rain of grief fell in large drops up- to throw the rest of his money in my busi-
on his neck. Charles Brennon also wept. ness. I guess I'd better take him up-these
The father's stern nature melted before this charity Asylums are all rich enough-Ys

a snow melts when springshowerfallsupo
it. His own eyes were moist, and his voic
trembled when he replied to her tenderly
pasionate appeal. Nature triumphed oven
bhs sense of justice, duty yielded to feel.
"I will forgive him for your sake, my
child, on condition that lie never purchases
another; if he does, from that moment he
enters my store no more, nor will I regard
him as a son.. As to the ill-gotten money
which he yet retains, let him expend it in
_ charity, as an expiation for his fault, and
you my angel child shall direethim how to
disburse it 1"
"Dear Father I thank you for his sake
and mine !" said the daughter, and smiles
came out radiantly upon her peerless face,
a' the sun through a shower shines some-
nimes upon a field of flowers.
"And I will sin no more, Sir ! Believe
ue this is my first fault-do not let it de-
troy your confidence in me !"
"It shall not, Charles, because you have
yo candidly acknowledged your fault. Had
you concealed it, or tried to deceive me, I
should never have forgotten it S"
Mary did not say it, but she looked the
words" Yea see I was right, Charles.n
Though all thus had been amicably set-
tled, there seemed to be a gloom hanging
aver the little fainily circle, and in a short
-      tine Mr. Brennon left the house.
"'.'en thousand dollars ! he muttered to
himself, musingly as hewalked towards the
herry--"ten  thousand dollars.  Charles
made a lucky hit-ten thousand dollars at
an expenditure of only a few shillings.
N:'     It is indeed enough to tempt any man.
Much as I know of its evils, of the fatality
-'    of such temptations, it almost sets me into
L       the fever. Ten thousand dollars-.and he
did It only that he might make a bridal

n I'll have a talk with him in the morning.
e Ten thousand dollars I What a lucky hit I"

CHAPTER XXV.

ANoTHER week has passed in our story.
Let us see what changes time has worked.
First we will pay a visit to the rooms of Mr.
Tullius Catlin. lie is not there-but Con-
stance Morley is. Is she altered? Yes.-.
Her cheeks glow with 'a rosier, healthier
hue. The sallow pallor produced by her
constant labor as she bent over her sewing
work, has vanished. The eyes red and dim
by late work by a glimmering candle, are
bright and clear as drops of ocean-water
sparkling in a seashell's rosy bosom. She
has had time to arrange her glossy hair.
Her dress, though still plain, is more neat
and richer than that she wore before. And
look, as she sits at the writing table, a dia-
niend ring glitters upon a finger of the
hand in which she holds her pen. She has
piued in her writing and seems to be re-
garding the jewelled circlet of gold intent-
ly. Hark-she speaks. Let us listen to
her thoughts.
"He must love m    she murmurs. "lis
never-varying kindness, this costly present.
so delicately given too, all go to prove it.
I-(shc sighed softly as she spoke)-I do
not lore him, but he-Seems so sad and lone-
ly that I pity him. I wish I could make
him happy! He ought to be happy-he
seems so good, he has every luxury that
boundless wealth can command, it is strange
that he should be unhappy!"
She hd not heard a noiseless step whtca
approached over the heavy Brussels car.


TUE Vl1fM5 1SO LOTTER# ANtb POLIC DEALERS

pt---she did not know that the words
audibly uttered in her revery had been
overheard and that too by him of whom
she was speaking. Therefore it was that
she started almost to her feet and blushed
to her very brow as she heard himin a low
sad tone say :
"Why is it so strange, Miss Constanco,
that I who am alone in a world which is
made up of deceit and hypocrisy, should be
unhappy?"
"I did not know that you were near me,
Sir !" said Constance, so confused and agi-
tated that she could scarcely speak I
"I did not intend to be a listener, fair
lady, but my ear is quick to catch the sweet
sounds of sympathy--I heard enough to
convince me that you were speaking of mc.
I could not interrupt you !"
"Oh sir, I was only thanking you in my
heart for this beautiful ring-but it is too
rich a gift, for a poor girl like me, to wear!"
"Poor, Miss Morley? Oh that all your
sex were rich as you are-rich alone in
your purity of heart, your goodness, your
noble nature? All the gold in California
cannot gild defects, cannot brighten or res-
tore the lustre of tarnished virtue-cannot
make a heartless woman lovely. You are
rich-rich enough to awaken envy in many
a city belle who gazes on your loveliness;
rich enough in your goodness and innocence
to wim and deserve the worshipping love of
the noblest in our land !"
"Oh Mr. Catlin, this is flattery!',
"No, Constance; excuse me, Mmi Morley,
I mean-I never stoop to flattery. You
have already seen enough of me to know
that candor is a part of my nature!"
"I acknowledge that, Sir-but I do not
feel myself worthy of so great a compliment
as that which you have paid me!"
"The meritorious are always modest ! I
have watched you closely-each day has
made me more sensible of your merit. But
I-will not intrude on you any further just
now, for I have business, and you have sev-
eral letters to answer for me1"
After Catlin left, lid she at once hasten
to write those letters?  No / She still

gazed on the glittering ring which bound
her finger, gaed upon it as we can imagine
Eve gazed on the forbidden fruit-and with
a sigh she murmured :
"I am sure he loves me ! But I do not
love him, I only pity him because he is ald
and lonely !
Poor girl she did not know her own heart.
Nor.did she dream what an arch-fiend, what
a consummate hypocrite, what a vice-hap-
tised, sin-soaked villain her supposed benie-
factfor was."
What did he say after he left her? Chuck-
ling in his devilish glee, he muttered, "Ive
got her fast now. The bait is taken. It is
but one step from sympathy to love, and
gratitude has lifted her over that. She is
safe. In a few days I shall be revenged for
the insult her father gave me-I shall revel
in bliss which would tempt a saint to for-
swear his hopes of heaven, and shall add
another to my list of victories, another to
my roll of victims. Yes, Constance Morley,
you soon shall be mine, soul and body !
Thus ends one chapter of a week of Ti'me's
rapid change in our story. Now for a
glance at the same week's work elsewhere
among our Dramatis persona.
CHAPTER XXVI.
CArTN and Grab were seated in the office
of the latter. Grab as usual, occupied two
chairs-the smoke of one of Springsteel '
prime native made Habana's curled up
from his lips, and he looked as satisfied as
if all his gold had not been washed in the
tears of countless victims to his thieving
arts.
"We've made a good week's work, net-
ted about $60,000, clear of expenses !" he
said.
"Pretty fair, rather above middling !"
said Catlin, "but we've got matters in a line
which will treble our profits. Who do
you think I saw buying a ticket in James

back office this morning-a wealthy mer
chant. who till now has been down dn u
tremendously,.one of our bitterest opposers!'
"I don't know who it can be?"
"Guess !"-
"For the life of me I cannot. I expect i
is some old codger that you have roped in!'
"No-lhe has roped himself in! What d
you think of Mr. Brent?"
"What, Charles Brennon's father-in-law?'
"The self-same individual
"Why I thought he was so opposed to i
that we had to let Brennon win a prize t(
keep him in hand!"
"Yes, and so it was, but I've an idea thai
our letting Chiarley Brennon draw a prize
has had something to do with this matter
I've not seen Charley yet, to find out, butI
can almost account for the sudden con-
version of the old gent. He sneaked in as
if he felt afraid some one would know he
didn't go there for exchange."
"Well,.it is singular-you said well, I
think, when you told me that the prize
wouldn't bme lost on Brennon !"
"1 wouldn't be surprised if we made fifty
or sixty thousand dollars out of them now.
They are both hooked. James has the num-
ber of the ticket which the old man bought,
checked, and we're going to let him draw
a small prize first to fasten the hook in his
gills. These merchants are so used to large
speculations, that when we get them once
into the humor, they don't know where to
stop!"
"That's a fact. By the way, Tullius,
have you heard from Vanroy, lately I"
"Yes, I received a letter this morning!"
"How is lie getting on
"Famously! le has got two of the best
Boston hotel keepers to act as private
agents for us--has got a dozen young bucks
of the ton who have more money than brains,
to try their luck; and three or four clerks
in big houses to do the same. He has got
the cashier of a bank in State street to try
his hand. I shall be sure that he draws a
good prize right on the start I"
"Well, act on your own judgment-you
have a carte blanche, on know! flow is

- Vanroy getting on in the matrimonial ape-
s culation you told me of?"
"   '"It is all in afair way, but a woman came
near spoiling his chance there !"
"How?"
t "Well, through jealousy. Gus, for somo-
"time had been keeping her as the Mor-
o mons do. as a spiritual wife--he was
not legally married to her and tried to cast
" her off, so that he would be free to court
and marry the young heiress he is after.
t The woman found out his plans, and wrote
o to old Anthon, the partner of Gus, that he
was married and had a baby I"
t "How on earth did Gus get out of that ?"
"Persuaded the old man that it was all a
. lie, got the woman off out of town, siooth-
ed the matter over, and now all is as clear
as day before him  Gus is a smart boy,
an honor to our profession !"
"He isn't anything else! Is that Glendye
matter all settled ?"
"Yes, and Glendye is on his way to Cal-
ifornia; we must be moie careful whom wb
choose for agents. This new law is cursed
tight I"
"It would be if policemen, jurors, and
judges could'nt be bribed? we are safe from
the law as long as our golden spectacles
can be worn on the nose of justice !"
"That is true !"replied Catlin, "and nearly
all of our New York officials have weak
eyes when there is a chance of getting gold
spectacles to wear !  If I had a hundred
thousand to spare, I would not fear to com-
mit every crime in the calendar, I could get
clear as easy as a trout from a pin-hook.
Money is all that a man wants to walk over
the upper-crust with in New York."
"Yes, and we've got our share, but this
cursed law forces us to disgorge too much
of our winnings."
"Well, it can't be helped. Police officers
and judges get small salaries and they must
live, you know!"
CHAPTER XXVII.
Wn now, in the course of the week's re-
4iew of changes, will take a glance at the

f

TILE WHEEL OF MtsoRTUn1 ; on.

15 A
r  x
eY ' ' "
P }
11 '  ; i
d
s  . -
f.
f.
4"
, s
, ,a.
~ t #k
i
x .  .r
f    r
,-
r -,a
v  ,
_ i  =.
uV
' '   +ii'+
]4' a  i
P  t
5 q z
i" i s_ f
'
s , 3
e._,W fi,
;
,
i w f-e
g;
Q
. ,_
" =='
  :.;
'===
z
1  w f
n,1 .
-s =.
-{ -
'
r

t
F
7
pi
i


5  n  W ELo  xruti;01' VICTIMS 4R                                                                  TTUT ANT) I')LTCY DEALERS.             b1

situation of Laura, the poor cast-off mistress
of Vanroy. Deceived by the plausible villain,
she had agreed to leave Boston, she wasj
even happy when seated in the carriage by
his side, holding her cherished child in her,
arms, she passed from Boston at the still
midnight hour. She had not noticed that,
two men sat on the driver's box, nor did she
even note the direction in which they start-
ed. In fact the last would have been near-
ly impossible. The night was dark and the
blinds of the carriage were closed, as Van-
roy kindly suggested to k~ep the cold night
air from his darling child.
The carriage drove on quite rapidly for
about two hours, perhaps a little more, and
then drew up before a small stone house
which was almost entirely shaded and hid-
den from the view of travellers on the road,
by a grove of elms. The carriage door open-
ed, and the little Jew pawn-broker who
opened it said:
"We are here at mine leetle country seat.
mishter Vanroy-you and your coot lady
are varee welcome to make it your home so
long ash you lik 8 "a
"Who is that man ?" asked Laura, in a
whisper, as she clasped her sleeping boy in
her arms and wound the shawl close around
his tiny form, ready to step from the car-
riage.
"A friend-I'll tell you as soa as we get
into the house !"
lint half satisfied, dreading something, she
knew not what, she entered the house. Pas-
sing through a gateway, she heard the gate
,wing heavily on its hinges, and thought
she heard a key turned behind them. They
had to pause, while Ishinael their guide,
knocked at the door.  Ishmael spoke in a
tongue unknown to her and was in a mo-
ment or two, answered from within in a
similar language. The door then opened
and two persons appeared. The oldest, a
dried-up looking old woman, quite meanly
apparelled, held a light in her hand. Half
shrinking behind her, as she observed stran-
gers, stood a beautiful young girl, evidently
of Jewish origin. She was probably fifteen
or sixteen years of age, that sweet age

when beauty is in its bud and like the open-
ing rose is most lovely. As Ishmael step-
ped forward, he said to the elder woman,
"Repecca-I have brought some frent
vich viii sojourn-a leetle viles vith us!"
Then turning to Laura and Vanroy he add-
ed. "Dish, mine coot frents is mine ho'hsli
keeper and dere is mine daughter, Miriam
Come here -Miriam, mine child-dish is
Mishter and Mishtress Vanroy-you must
make dem comfortable, you and Repecca
vile they sthay mit us 1"
"Yes, dear father f" said the young girl,
coming forward and imprinting a kiss with
her cherry-red lips upon his wrinkled brow.
The party passed on through a dark, chil-
ly hall, and entered a room which contrast-
ed strangely with the rough and gloomy
appearance outside of the house. It was
elegantly furnished. A glowing fire burned
in the grate. Wealth had been lavishly ex-
pended in furniture, paintings and works of
art. As soon as Vanroy and Laura were
seated, the housekeeper asked if she should
prepare some refreshnnent for them. This
was declined.
"Oh what a dear, sweet little baby !" sail
Miriam, as the mother took the shawl and
wrappers from around her child.  And the
Jewish maiden bent on one knee and kissed
the sleeping cherub.
"I have one friend in this house, at least.
thought Laura, as with a mother's pride she
noticed the action.
"If your housekeeper will show my lady
the room which she is to occupy, I will ac-
company them for a moment !" said Vanroy
to Ishmael-"I have to return to the city
to night l"
"To-night, Augustus?"
"Yes, love, that I may hurry through
my business and be the sooner ready to go
with you as we have arranged !"
"Then let me see you alone a few mo-
mentsbefore you go. I have much to say
to you!-"
The okl housekeeper took alight and led
the way to a chamber, as neatly furuished
as the parlor they had just left. Placing the

light on the centre table, she left the
alone.
"Augustus!" said Laura, after she ha
laid her child down on the couch, and car
fully covered it-" Augustus, are you no
deceiving me in some way "
"So help me heaven, I'm  not !" he r
plied.
"Then why is it that you did not tak
me to the tavern in a village near Worces
ter, that you spoke of?"
"Because after I went out I thought o
this country seat which belongs to the old
man we saw below. He is a friend to whom
I had letters of introduction, an ExchangE
broker of immense wealth, and when I men
tioned our case was but too happy to doc
me a favor "
"Ifyou go to the city again to-night, when
will I see you again ?"
"By the day after to-morrow, my love !"
'Will you then be ready to go South with
me ?"

'I hope so, Laura-I will arrange my
business as hastily as possible !" -
"Do, for this will be a gloomy place to
ine. I do not like the looks of that Jew,
nor of his housekeeper. But his daughter
seems to be a kind, amiable creature!1"
"And no doubt she is. She will be pleas-
ant company to you, and prevent you feel-
ing lonesome !"
"Dear Gus, I would be lonesome in the
company of angels if you were not there i"
"Well love-one good-night kiss, and then
I must hasten back !'-
"Oh do nit go till morning, Gus i"
"I must my dear. I must be in the city
very early '"
"Then go, God bless you-hurry back, I
shall count the minutes till you come I"
A burning kiss and an embrace- fond on
one side but cold as hypocrisy on the other,
and he was gone. The mother knelt by the
bedside whereon her sleeping babe lay and
prayed for him who was even then so base-
ly deceiving her.

While Vanroy was conversing with Laura
ap stairs, Ishmael in anotherapartment was
giving Rebecca her orders in regard to the

m prisoner. There were three in the room,
and the third one was not Miriam. He'
d was a huge, stupid looking man,who though
- he seemed to listen to the orders given, hard
t ly seemed capable of understanding them.
The orders were to supply Laura with every
comfort, but at all hazards to prevent her
leaving the house or the enclosure which sur-
e rounded it. She was not to be informed
- that she was a prisoner, and he gave minute
directions in regard to the excuses to ho
f made to keep her within doors. As a last
resort, he left some powders, which though
they would not destroy life, would throw her
on a sick-bed if taken with her'food. Hav-
. ing concluded these directions he rejoined
Vanroy and they at once re-entered the car-
riage.
"Have you arranged everything'for her
safe-keeping ?" asked Vanroy as they drove
off.
"Yesh Mister Vanroy-she is safe ash my
monish, or ash mine own taughter'"
"Your daughter is very beautiful !" said
Vanroy
" Yeah-so was her modder pefore her!"
replied the Jew, sighing heavily. "Yesh
Miriam is a coot gal, she knows nothing of
the wont and its padness, I never lets her
go from de place at all!"
For some time they went along in silence,,
each occupied with their own thoughts.
Ishmael was the first to speak.
"I dink you told me to-night Mister Van-
roy dat if dish lady and der child is sent
from de country so dat no more dey troubles
you, you will give five thousand dollare de
night dat you marry de rich gal, eh ?"
"Yes, I said so and will do it i"
"Um-den I tinks a leetle whiles. I got
some ver coot frents in Yarmany, some dat
is high in der government, I tinks maybe if
I can send her dere dey will never give her
a passport to come back !"
"But no harm must befall her.'-
"Oh no, dere ish no danger of dat. Eve-
rypody knows old Ishmael has coot heart!"
Again both sunk back into silence which
was not again broken till they reached the

&amp;

50                    TIIE WHEEI, 4F M SFRTt7NE i Al

!T1i{I


52                      THnE WrEEL OF ursroRruNn; on,
city where Vanroy handed the Jew the sec- on the threshold, and by his side appears
end payment of five hundred dollars.  the daughter I have described before.
"Good bye. dear father!" she says, kiss-
ing him tenderly, "hurry back, we shall
wait dinner for you I"
"Good morning, my Ilettie I" he said and
passed down the steps. He paused after
CHAPTER XVIII.              she closed the door and looked back at the
cottage.
R AUt, do you remember the greyhair- "My God, it is hard," he murmured, "but
ed old gentleman, the descendant of a pa- I must mortgage the last remnant of my
trician line and the bend of a lovely family, heritage. Grocer's bills unpaid, butchers
whom I described in the fourth chapter? and bakers dunning me, and I can't win a
A single circumstance will recall him to single prize in the lottery. I've spent all
you. You remember his spending the mon- my salary, every cent I can borrow, and
sy for tickets which his young daughter had still no luck comes to me !"
given him to purchase articles of dress for He sighed and turned to walk down town.
the purpose of attending a ball. In that The time was when his carriage always bore
chapter I merely introduced you to the him to and fro, but the Lottery dealers had
parlor of his house. I want now to have swallowed that and the horses too.
you take a look at the outside of the house An hour or so later he entered the same
and the grounds attached. It is an upper lottery dealers office where we before saw
ward, in the aristocratic part of the city, him spend his daughter's money for lottery
It is a cottage, but it is beautifully shadow- tickets. Passing behind the screen he was
ed by evergreen trees. The lot which is met by the smiling "exchange broker,"
thrice the size of the usual town lots is laid who said, "Good morning, Mr. M., anything
out with shrubbery, and though it is winter in the ticket line to-day-it's time you won
it looks well, for most of the growth around a prize I think ; bad luck don't run long!'
the shelly walks is evergreen. The house  "Mine has run long enough !" replied Mr.
is a picture of neatness; looks as if it was Montrose, "but I did not call to purchase
built for comfort, to enjoy life in-to corn- this morning, I merely called to enquire
blne the conveniences of a city residence of you'where I could find some liberal man,
with the luxuries of the country. You will a gentleman, not one of your flint-hearted
soon see why I am thus particular in des- cent-per-cents, who would advance me a
cribing the place. But before I go further sum of money on the mortgage of as pretty
I will state that this cottage and beautiful a piece of real-estate as there is in the
plat of ground is all that is left of a large city i"
farm which once belonged to the ancestors  "I think I know the very man, if he can
of the family I have described. Lot by lot be induced to go into the matter. lie is a
has been sold from It, and this little gem in Southern gentleman of immense wealth;
the centre alone preserved. And now I fond of the excitement of speculation, car-
may as well give a name to the family, not ing very little for its profits I should think,
their real one. for I respect members of It judging from the way he showers gold
too much, and should not thus explicitly des- around. If you wish, I'll give you a letter
cribe them were the characters not true, of introduction to him!"
and the description necessary In the morale  "Do if you please-what is his name I"
of this story. I will call them Montrose.  "Tulihus Catlin y'
While the reader Is mentally gazing on  "FProm the South, you said 1"
the cottage and grounds, he observes the  "Yes Sir, from Carolina, a high toned,
cottage door open. Mr. Montrose appears thorough bred gentleman I"

I _
_I

THE VIcTWs oF  oTTW AND POLICE DALERs.
With the letter of introduction in the  "Thank you-leave me your address and
same pocket-book which contained the title.. I will be there. Mr. Montrose I"
deels of his last available property, Mr.  "Her e ismycard, Sir,I shall expectyoui"
Montrose left the lottery shop where he had Mr. Montrose now left, attended to the
spent thousands upon thousands of dollars, door by Catlin, who was as obsequious in
to seek -Mr. Catlin.                  his manner as if he was asking rather than
It is hardly necessary to say he found grating a favor. I need scarcely add that
him. Such villains are always easily to be though the former knew him not, Catlin was
found when they can make anything; very well acquainted with Montrose's dealings
hard to find if Justice calls for them.  and knew well where the money lent on
When Mr. Montrose was ushered into the that mortgage would ultimately go.

splendid apartments of Catlin, he was
once convinced that the owner was
least wealthy. And when met in a ver
polite manner by Mr. Catlin, he fancied th
he had found a gentleman. His eye res
ed also on the fair girl who was employee
at the writing table, and he thought sh
was almost as pretty as his Hettie. Bu
business was uppermost in his mind, and h
handed the letter of introduction to Catlin
The latter glanced over it, and then re
marked, "My friend states that you wish t
make some arrangements in regard to rea
estate."
"I do, Sir-but had we not better bE
alone ?" replied Mr. Montrose, glancing a
Miss Morley-.
S "W  are, Sir; that young lady is th
1      daughter of an old friend of mine and is my
'    private secretary, cognisant of course, of all
my business transactions"
"Ah! Then, Sir, I will state my business
at once. I have a very valuable pifice ofl
real estate up town, and having need of
some ready cash would like to raise a sum
:s  on mortgage for a short time ;"
really, Sir, I very seldom enter into
speculationsof the kind. butas afavor to one
who in bearing and manners seems so much
a gentleman of the old school, I may invest
the sum you require. But ! should like to
. see the property"
"That of course would be necessary, but
as I do not wish to have my family know
of she transaction, I would prefer the visit
beiug made as unbusiness-like as possible.
five; a plain family dinner is all I can fifer
you-but I have some choice old wine"

at
at
y
at
t-
ad
e

CHAPTER XXIX

Lt  "FivE tousand dollars !  Dat is much
e monish !" muttered Ishmael, as lie sat in
s. his dirty pawn-shop on the morning after he
and Vanroy had taken Laura into the coun-
o, try. He was evidently thinking of the offer
l which Gus had made if Laura was removed
from the country so that she would never
e trouble him again. "Five tousand dollars!
t um-now if dat tam old fool Hans Scratch-
detmast, was here, I tink maybe sometimes I
e could do sometings mit him ! He has cot
de coot ship, he is one tam care-for-nopoddy.
1 py mine peard I wish he was here? Never
when I wants somebody ish soeepody spout.
Dat rascal Squinterduybel ish ashleep some-
where, I dinks! Der DurVn L'1"
The last exclamation of the Hebrew, wus
caused by the entrance' of a man whose
dress as well as his weather-beaten counte-
nance, indicated that be was a sailor. ,H~e
had a regular barnacle countenance, red as
a flannel petticoat, with a beet like nose,
two small grey eyes, and a bald head as
shiny as the knuckle of a well-boiled close-
picked beef-bone. In his mouth he held a
short pipe which voted smoke like the
chimney of a locomotive. Hidresswas
rough as _himself.'Ashaggy pea-jacket,
a pair of huge pilot-cloth trowsers tucked
inside the legs of a pair of enormous sea-
boots, and tarpaulin "sou'wester," corn-
ple~ed his rig.

if
it
"e
t
V
,l
S
f
f
E
1
l

r

s


TUE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND 1OLIOY DEALERS.

54                      TIE WEEL oF MTSFORTUNE ;OR
"For what you speak mit your friend der not make tamfool of herselfuna yump over-
duyvel !" asked the mariner of Ishmael.  poard !"
"Pecause, mine coot frent Captain Scratch-  "Den if she do dat, it is her pusiness, not
dermast, I was yust den dinking of you!." yours, so long as you get der tousand dol-
.And what you dinks of me, den, Ish- lars1"-

mael ?"
"Why, captain, dey zay dat when you u
links of der duyvel und speak his name, d
dat he is sure to come along. You see I o
was dinking of you, and ynst have sphoke u
your name and der first ding I sees you1"
"Ah-is dat all!"                     i
"Dat wash not all captain. I wash wish- o
ing to see you on business. I wash dink
how glad I shall pe if you wash in der port
mit your coot ship!"
'Yes, I see-you want some more of der
schnapps dat never see de Custom House,
"No-not for dat I dinks, dis time I'
")en what for you dinks, eh? What you
all wants mit me "
"'When shall you sail for to go pack mit-l
over de water ?"]
"In apout a week I dinks I I cot a cargo
all engaged!" 
"Den if I pay you, you will dome afavor?"
"Yes-for der monish, I can do most eb-
erydlings for a frent!" 
-'Well den, I wants you to take a passen-
ger, no two pas enter, a woman mit her
baby-poy ! I pay you double price, and I
pay more if she never come pack again I"
"'What you have to do mit der woman
and der l:aby-poy ?'?
"Oh nothings, minesclf, but one frent
wants der woman mit-out of his way-she
love him more as he loves her, and he loves
anodder woman more as dis one I'o
'Oh yes, I see. And how much passage
you dink your frent will give, eh ?"
"I dinks, if she come not pack again he'll
give a tousand dollars I"
Tousand dollars. Um-den I dinks I
shall see apout It! Is der woman willing
for to go?"
"I dinks not much-put when you get her
oa der waters, you not care for dat, eh ?"
"No, I dinka not  No, not much if she

"Dat is coot-yes dat is coot, Ishmacl.
nd den she'll never come pack. You get
er woman und der baby-poy in my cabin
ance und bring mit her der tonsand dollars,
nd I'll make it all right mit her !"
"Dat ish a, pargain, captain-now come
n der pack room und we will have a trink
f schnapps !"
Leaving the worthy duos to their sehmaPP ,
we will open another chapter.
CHAPTER XXX.
CoNSTANcE MlORLEY was at nor post. en
gaged in writing as usual. She had now
been nearly two weeks in the employ o
Mr. Catlin, who to her had ever been obse-
quiously polite. He seemed ever sad and
low spirited. He required but very little
labor at her hands. IIer copying never oc-
cupied her more than an hour or so, yet hcr
salary was very liberal. What wonder then,
that in so short a time he should have awa-
kened in her young heart a deep and a dan-
gerous interest. Remember- that she who
had in her early youth known comfort and
even affluence, had since then been steeped
in poverty, that she had toiled early and
late, by the dim light of the midnight taper
and by the cheerless rays of the rising su
to earn the bare necessaries of life, and now
by an apparently kind hand which seemed
to ask no recompense except the power to
do good, no reward which could raise a
blush upon the cheek of virtue, she found
herself independent and comfortable, able
to support her only surviving parent in
ease. Then wonder not, that all unknown
to herself, gratitude had given way to a
stronger feeling, that in the fulness of her
young, passionate nature, she loeed her sup-
Josed benefactor.

I said in the commencement of this chap-
ter that she was as usual at her post. It
was morning, nine or ten o'clock. At thej
same table, on the opposite side, Mr. Catlin
was also engaged in writing. He laid down
his pen after using it a short time, and sigh-
ed deeply. She raised her eyes-they met
his, for he was gazing at her. His look
was so sad that she could not help noticing
it, could not refrain from speaking.
"Are you not well this morning, Mr. Cat-
lin?" she asked..
"As well as usual. Miss Constance 1" he
replied, sighing a un.
"You seem so sari, Mr. Catlin Y"
"What have I to make me gay?"
"You have nothing to make you sad, Mr.
Catlin. You possess wealth and wealth is
power ! Power used for good, as you use
it, must be happiness. I almost envied you
when I saw the gleam of grateful pleasure
light up that old gentleman's countenance
when you promised to assist him yesterday I"
'Yet happiness does not consist in wealth,
fair lady. Wealth may in a measure con-
duce to it, but wealth cannot make a wint-
cry world warm. It cannot restore foliage
to the blasted tree, it cannot give life to the
wilted flower. There is but one thing which
can make a true heart happy I"
"And what is tpat, Mr. Catlin ?"
it"Love, Constance, ivzl Love though
it dwells in the narrow cell of a prison, or
within the contracted hounds of a peasant's
cot, will gild life, when gold clings like a
leaden weight upon the heart and clogs the
wheels of joy. H-ow then can one all unlov-
ed like myself, he happy I"
"Oh Sir, you are not unloved !"
"Then as if conscious of having commit-
ted an unmaidenly impropriety both in the
warmth of her tone and looks, the face of
Constance became crimson with blushes.
Catlin observed, he saw he had struck the
right chord, and he dared not let it die away
for he might never recall the sound again.
"XNot unloved ?" he said-" Oh Con-
stance if I could hope for love where I in
secret have planted the seeds of my first af-
fection, oh then, I could hope yet to be

happy. Forgive me Constance, I can con-
ceal it no longer, I love you-yqu only I
From the hour when we first met, I have
felt in my heart emotions to which it before
was a stranger. I have gazed upon your
beauty as the flower ever turning toward
the sun drinks in its brightness. I have
listened to the silvery tones of yeur voice
and wished that you might speak forever.
Oh Constance, is there a hope that my love
will be returned. You can make me happy
-you can make me miserable-I My fate,
my very life is in your hands! Oh speak,
dearest, and end my suspense !"
While he made this passionate appeal,
he drew near to her, suddenly he dropped
on his knee at her feet and clasping her
small white hands in his, looked up implor-
ingly in her face, in her liquid eyes, await-
ing, by his looks beseeching a reply.
She did not withdraw her hands-she
bowed her head upon his shoulder and wept.
She did not chide him when he kissed the
tears from her cheek ; she did not reprove
him when his arm stole around her slender
waist ; she did not frown' when bolder still
he planted burning kisses on her red lips.
Though she spoke not, he was answered.
When he again more calmly seated him-
self by her side, he took her hand in his and-
said:
"Dear Constance, the world is no longer
a wilderness to me, I am happy!"
"If Ican make you happy, then I shall
be happy!" she murmured.
Then as reason resumed its sway, as she
emerged from the confusion into which his
sudden  and  vehement declaration had
thrown her, Constance began to feel the in-
equality of Catlin's circumstances and her
own.
"Why should you, who are wealthy,
graced in form and strong in intellect, love
a penniless girl like me I" she said. "You
can win and wear the brightest, richest
jewel in the land I For your own sake for-
get poor Constance, seek some beautiful
heiress, some mate more worthy of you !"
"Sooner would I seek a bride within the

if


56                         THE WHEEL oF
tomb than look for another than thee I" he
replied.
"Oh Constance, till now I have concealed
the love which has been burning like a
quenchless fire in my breast.
* The cold in clime are cold in blood,
Their love can scarce deserve the name ;
But stxa is like the larasflood
Which burns in Etna's breast of flame.'
I think not of wealth-your worth in
goodness, in purity, in affection, in beauty,
outweighs all the gold on earth. The only
jewels I ask, are your eyes, brightened with
the holy dew of love !"
Again he clasped her to his breast.
Again his hot lips were glowed to hers.
Her heaving bosom, her trembling form,
her flushed cheeks, her eyes languidly bril-
liant, like violets overladened with dew,
her short-drawn sighs, betokened her feel-
ings,feelings new to her, emotions as strange
as they were indiscribable. The first feel-
ings of a young beast bursting from the

ImSFORTUNE ; OR
been a good clerk, Charley ; you'll make a
good partner. You are a good son and
husband, I've never caught you in but one
error and that-is forgotten as well as for-
given. By'the way, Charley, let sue see
that watch of yours, it is rather a cheap at=-
fair !"
"Oh no, sir-it was a present from you,
it cost one hundred and fifty dollars, I re-
member!"
"Yet it is too cheap for a man to wear
whose wife wears a five thousand dollar set
of jewelry 1"
"Oh no, sir. I think not!"
"Yet I choose to think otherwise. Take
that oil and keep it for your oldest boy, if
ever you and Mary have one. here is one
which I gave three hundred and fifty for ;
a double cased, full jeweled independent
movement, repeating chronometer.   Ac-
cept it, Charuly, and wear it for my sake !"
"I will sir, and gratefully ! you are too

TUlE VICTIMS OP LOTTEtRY AND~ POL ICY PEAlLRUIIL

a

bul into the blossom in the tropical atmnos- good !"
here of love, must be realized to be known.  "Poh-pobh! no words, Charley. By the
The poet's pen is too cold to paint them.  way, we've got a heavy note to pay on the
, last lot of flour we shipped to Rio-it
comes due to-day, you'd better collect some
of the cheeks we have in hand !"
"Yes, Sir !"
CIIT'ER XXXI.               "lHe's a good boy, a nice boy "' said Mr.
Brent, as he saw his son-in-law leave the'
Cnnts: BIEXON entered the counting counting room.    Then seating himself at
room of Mr. Brent one morning some three his private desk, he took out Iis pocket-book
or four days after the" blow up" about the and drew from it a package of lottery tick-
lottery tickets, as described in the twenty- ets and a scheme.
fourth chapter, and was pleased to find his  " The highest prize to-day is thirty thou-
father-in-law wearing an unusually pleas- sand dollars!" he muttered. "If Fm in
ant smile on his countenance.           luck, I'll make more out of ten dollars in
"Charley !" said Mr. Brent, "I've been one fortunate move than.I can by a year's
thinking over the matter in regard to the lanor with all my capital.  I've had one
investment of the surplus cash you have on good snap-I can't blame Charley so much
hand, I believe it would be folly to give after all!"
it to these so-called charitable institutions, He heard footsteps approaching and quick
orne half of which are stock-jobbing and as thought he shoved the tickets and scheme
speculating swindles. If you choose you back into his pocket-book. His hand shook
can put it in our concern, and on the as he did so. and a flush of shame reddened
first of the year if every thing progresses his cheek. That old man knew he was do-
favorably, I'll take you into partnership." lag wrong. Yes, the merchant whose honor
"Sir, you really are too good !"     never had been questioned, whose fair-deal.
"Tut-tut, not a bit.   You've always lag was proverbial, actually felt guilty of

67

doing wrong, and blushed when one of his County, only I hope , he'll be more luckf
own clerks entered the room.          than Abram was. This good brother had a
*            *      *      *     great habit. of preaching what he didn't
It was accidentally, of course, that Cat- practice, and one day he got paid in his
lin met Brennon at the Shades that day, own coin for a transgression of the rule.
between eleven and twelve, though the lie owned a few sheep, and among them
fornier knew the hour that the latter gener- was a very vicious old ram. In the pasture
ally visited there. As usual his greeting where he kept them, there was a deep ravine
was warm.                             through which a small brook ran, but in
How are you Charley, my dear boy, wet weather it was always swelled into a
how are youl" he cried. "I'm glad to see deep and rapid stream. Some wicked boys
yQU !"                                 used to delight in teasing the old ram, and
"Not more, my dear Catlin, than I to standing on the edge of the clifil'which
meet you. I've received a present this overhung the stream, they would stoop
morning and we must wet it over a glass of down and wave their hats at him. The old
ehampaigne 1 I've got good news to tell ram enraged at this, would make at them
you besides! The old man made me a with head lowered to give them a specimen
present of a three hundred and fifty dollar of his butting propensities. As he came
watch this morning and is going to take inc on at full speed, they'd step aside and over
into partnership soon l"        -      the ram would go into the torrent below,
"I congratulate you Charley! But I've whence he would emerge half dronwed, af-
news for you, and may be I can tell you ter swimming and drifting to the flats in the
what makes the old gentleman so liberal lower end of the field. Brother Abram
just now l"                            caught the boys at it several times, and
"You can? Do, I'd like to know"    albeit he was a man of peace, he severely
"It is a secret, and I will only reveal it trounced them. One Sunday morning, af-
on your solemn promise not to disclose it !" ter he had dressed in his best suit, and was
"That I will cheerfully give! I know waiting for the time to go to meeting, he
you would not exact anything dishonorable took it into his head to stroll through his
from me !"                            fields. Chance or inclination led himi to
"Then the truth is this, and I discovered the pasture. lie observed the sheep. Near
itby mere accident, Mr. Brent has been and aheadof the flock the old rai, who
speculating in lottery tickets, and has won looked as if he thought him an intruder
a prize ?"                            Abram looked around, he did not see any
"Catlin, you are joking!"           one near, and the thought entered his mind,
"Indeed I am not!"                 how funny the old ram would look in the
"Why, if you had only heard how bitterly water. So he placed himself where he had
he condemned me, his daughter's tears could seen the boys stand, and stooping down on
hardly induce him to forgive me!" -   his haunches Commenceu moving his broad
"True, but he is not the only one in the rimmed white hat before his face. The old
world who preaches that which lie does not ram wouldn't stand that insult, so with tail
practice. ie saw iow fortunate you had erect, and head lowered, he charged upon
been, the temuptatioa was too strong for him, the worthy brother. Abram was so busy
and he followed ye r lead. lie too has thinking of the fun he would enjoy in see-
ueen lucky, and your present, like that ing the sheep struggling in the foaniing
which you made to your queenly wife, has water below, that lie forgot to jump aside
cone from the hands of that tickle dame, and the ram's head took him fairly in the
Fortune. Your old gentleman reminds me stomach, and the next instant lie found, not
of an old story that is told of a certain the ram, but himself, in the water.  Half
Brother Abram, who lives in Westchester choked andtwo-thirds drowned,he managed

11
p

. -
,.
:*

;
y
i
~ ' -
,


58                      TiSf    s WHEEL OF MrsFo'TUmE; OR
to cot ashore, but he didn't go to meeting with the garb assume the demeanor of a
that daiy !"                           parson ?"
"I should think not, but I've got dry on  "Why, I don't understand you. What do
your long winded story. Let's shed a tear you mean? explain yourself!"
over the spirits of departed grapes !"    " I will. You remember my telling you
"Agreed-what do you think of the dif- about my fair secretary I"
ference between precept and practice?     "Yes, what of her ?"
It's considerable; but I didn't think my  "I cannot effect my intention of ruining
father-in-law was such a hypocrite !"   her, without she is led to believe that we
4 Oh, that's nothing, just about two are legally and properly married. Icannot
thirds of the world lives by hypocrisy. Do and will not marry her. A sham marring
you thjnk that the sleek, well-fed, high- is my only resort !"
salaried pastors of our city churches, who  "You're a strange fellow, Catlin. Why
drive their carriages, and grumble at the do you want to carry the matter so far !J"
littleness of a six or seven thousand dollar  "Revenge stops at nothing. I hate the
a year salary, hearing more for a dish of as- girl-her father once struck me and called
paraguts or the first salmon of the season, me thief. I never forgave an enemy ! Will
than they do for the souls of their parish- you serve me in this matter ?"
oner-. could live if it were not for hypoc- "Why as far as money goes, I-"
risy ?  With lust in their hearts and lies on  "Money be d- d! Will you or will
their ip . they cover their hypocrisy with you not?"
the veil of outward sauntity. I repeat it,  "Why my boy, there's no need of being
the w rrld is more than two thirds made up so violent in the matter ! I'm willing to
of b loerisy !"                        do anything in reason! I'm sure I've al-
No onF cull sp-ak more truly than Cat- ways proved myself ready to serve you' 1
lin ni that subject. lIe wtas a practical ex-  " ''hat is true, Grab, excuse me. But you
point of hy pocrisy, himself.           are the only moan I dare to trust in a matter
so delicate as this. I wish no witness but
my housekeeper, and you know she is in my
-pay and iower too !"
"" Well, we will discuss the matter! You
can depend upon me, you know."
CIIAPTElt XXXII.                "It is true," replied Catlin, "you have
never failed tue yet. But why need we dis-
Ir way later in the dhay. Catin and Grab cuss the matter, it is but a trifle !"7
were sated in the room of the latter. Grab  "It would scarcely he considered a trift
as u-unl occupied a couple of chairs. and if the matter got out. The law would make
with a very satisfied air he stuoked his it a rather serious affair for both of us!t
ctipr. Tbhe wreaths of smoke ceurled up " Poh, there is no danger of that ?"
around his head, like fog around the top of  " Not without she becomes desperate
a flu l branched tree.                  when she discovers how you have wronged
''Ihi you think you could play the parson, her and exposes you!"
Mr. Grab?'' asked Catlit.                 " Women are not so fond of exposing their
fPlay the devid, you mean ?'! said the own shame as that comes to. And thni
other.                                 desperation is generally taken out in crs
- The terms are synonymous in some ing, tearing their own hair and frettiu
cases I acknowledge !'' replied Catlin, "but themselves to death I
I ask in earnest, do you not think on a spe-  "I've read instances where they have re-
cial o easion, for a friend who has been as venged the loss of their- honor b, takiw'
fa:thuul to you as I have been, you could their seducer's life!"

I

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.                89
"Such things have been, but they're not will I be happy, thrice as happy as when i
fashionable and a woman would rather be am revelling on her peerless charms 1"
out of the world than out of the fashion ''  "My God, Catlin, how you can hate 1
"You seem to hold but a poor opinion of God save me from ever incurring your en-
women !"                                mity-I never saw but one man so bitter,
"Why should I hold any other? To me so untiring in his hate as yourself!"
they have been but as playthings, made for  "Who was that, pray ?"
me to toy with ; frail and fragile as a flower  "Our bitterest foe, the open enemy of
which you pluck because it is fragrant and the gamblers as well as of us, the man
beautiful, and cast away when it begins whose pen is ever at work to crush us, who
to fade !"                              can neither be bought or driven from the
" Why. Catlin, that is rather a heartless track 1"
remark !"                                 " You mean Buntline, I suppose ?"
"I care iot! I am a man of the world,  "I do!1"
and take life as I find it. There is nothing " Well, if he can't be bought or driven
of the whining sentimentalist about me-I from the track, i know what can stop him.
go in for reality, while I damn fancy. I His days are numbered. I have sworn it
care but little for what school-girls call love. Selden has sworn it, Carlton has sworn it,
It will do for-some, but I enjoy the pleasure and so have others. If he can escape all of
of hate twice as much!"                 us, he's more than maul'
"You are a strange fellow, Catlin !"    "Well he has so far !"
"That's no news to tell me. I wouldn't  "'That's his luck-but we'll catch him
be otherwise! My victims while they play napping some time, see if we don't ?"
wi4  my gilded bait think I'm a glorious  " Well the sooner the better. lie is play-
fine fellow, but when they feel the hook ing the devil with our trade. The fellow
they believe me to be a devil incarnate "  never does anything by halves, when he
"You remind, or if you were not good- hits, his blows come home !"
looking, you would remind me of Mokanna,  "So you think he cau out-hate me1 "
the veiled prophet of Khorassan, as described "Yes, judging from his actions. He is
by Moore !"                             as bitter as gall! But he has one quality
"Why, because I glory in my hate for which you do not seem to possess, in fact
the human race, love to revel on their mise- two of them!1"
ries and pride myself on being a devil in  "And what are they "
the fullest sense of the term !'j        "First, judging from'what I've heard, he
can and has loved all as ardently as he can
"Well you're right in your comparison ; hate-he seems ever to entertain and in his
I am a -Mokanna,' and this Constance Mor- writings breathes in every line a pure and
ley shall be my Zuleika! Ha-ha-a glo- chivalrous opinion of woman--seems to
rious wedding we'll have, a glorious wed- regard her as a link between earth and
ding. And she, the pure and beautiful, heaven, made not for a toy as you say, but
shall dream a dream of Heaven-a dream of as a friend and purifier of man1"
bliss exstatic-bright as the visions of the  " Well-that's his sentiment'! I've none
poet, sweet as the life of an angel. But of it. what is the other quality which he
when she wakes from it, when I whisper in possesses that I do not ?"
her ear' what she is, what I have made her ; "Candor! He cannot use deception and
when she drops from heaven down to hell play the hypocrite, or at least I never heard
-when I tell her that I am avenged-for the that charged against him. You can pre-
blow her cursed father gave me, when tend love and friendship for those you hate,
she shrinks in horror from the serpent even while you are working their ruin, lut
which she has hugged to her bosom, then when he hates he comes out open-faced and

I# 
t'

'  b
f.
/       a

_


'THE WaEELJ OFl
calls folks and things by their right names!"
" That's the fault of his education. The
fellow was brought up in the Navy and
Army, where honor is taught and practis-
ed. I used to believe in honor, but blast
me if I ever made any money by it. J3ut
that isn't what we were talking about. I
want to arrange about this sham marriage.
I want that to come otf to-morrow eve-
niug !'"
Well we can arrange that, I guess!"
You'll play the parson ?"
"III try to. But you were saying some-
ibi hg about money to lend on a mortgage,
a while ago!''
" Yes--I want live'thousand dollars-
zt will all conic back to us. It is for one of'
oar oldest and most regular customers-
he has spent tifty thousand dollars with us
is less than five or six years!"
" Is the property asutlicient security ?"
.Yes, worth three times the Lmount.
An lihe only wants the money for six
months, if he don't pay it back then we'll
ioieelose on it of course. I was up to see
it. lie has a beautiful cottage and a pretty
daughter too
" I suppose you've an eye on her, too?"
I will have, when I yet through the
business I've on hand now. It won't do to
have too many irons in the fire at once, you
know !"
'- I should think not. You can have the
money of course. Has Vanroy written to
you again .'
Yes, I got a letter this morning!"
how is he getting on?"
"Famously! Doing well for himself and
us too. lie is to be married in a few days
-or at least says he will 1"
That girl troubles him no more, then?"
" She can't. He has got her locked up!"
"He's a coon "
You'd better believe he is. He'll make
a smart one by the time he is educated !"
lie couldn't well help it under such an
experienced teacher as yourself."
"You are ven, flattering. But I must
go and see my "Zulcika"-it won't do
when one is in love to be long absent from

KrsFORTUNE  ol,
the flame or else it may go out. I'll be
back bye and by !"
"Well, good luck go with you!"
ChAPTER XXXII.
WHEN Catlin left Grab, he hastened to
his own apartnint. Constance was there.
In every scene, describing her as she was, I
have painted her beautiful, but now, her
face glowing with the rosy sun-light of
happiness, her eyes sparkling with th holy
dew of pure joy, every vein thrillimg with
pleasure which she did not try to conceal,
her bosom throbbing with the waxc-like
ieaviugs of first love, she was glornously
beautiful.
When Catlin pressed her passionately to
his bosom, she lid not repulse himt ; when
his burning lips met hers she did not :hrwik
from his tirery kisses, she knew no danger,
her heart and soul was centred imi one wild
mad thought, it was love, even to Wlora-
lion! When a true woman loves for the
first time, her love is like the zeal of a new
convert-it is all faith all con/idener with
her. And never cai she, if once deceived,
love again as she has (lone. After his fond
embrace and a few passionate caresses. Cat-
n seated himself by her side and more
methodically proceeded to "business."
"Dear Constance," he said, " since we
both love, our union need not be delayed!
I have no parents to consult, I have only an
uncle to please, and he is in Carolina. I
would like to please him in my choice for
he is rich and childless, and I would rather
inherit his good-will and property than to
see it go into the hands of strangers !"
"Why do you not write him and ask his
consent !"
"It would take three weeks to get an
answer, and dear Constance, I could never
wait so long! To see you here daily, so
angelic in your beauty and know that you
love me, and to feel that you were not

THE VICTIMS OF LOyT
wholly and forever mine, would madde
me, would drive me insane. No dear Con
stance, I can never sleep soundly till w
are married. I see you ever before me-
you are a part of my very being. I canno
exist without you-not another sun mus
set before we are united!"
"Oh so soon, dear Tullius? Why sue
haste. I have not even consulted my moth
eC'?"
"She will not object I"
"Oh no, I do not fear that, but then
there are many preparations," said th
blushing girl, "which I must make. Ihave
clothes to make!"
"I will charter a whole dress-makers es
tablishment, lure the whole bevy of work
women. Go to Stewarts, there is my pock-
et-book, it contains over one thousand dol-
I-ars, use it all, buy what you please, be-
fore to-morrow noon it shall be made up !"
"Oh what need of such haste, or of such
extravagant expense, dear Tullius! I need
but little, I do not love you because you
can dress me richly-it is for your warm,
good heart ; your noble, generous nature-
because you love me !"
"Then sweet girl do not delay my hap-
piness! Our marriage need not at once be
made public-I'll write to my uncle, ask'
and gain his consent before lie knows of our
marriage. In truth I would rather not
have our marriage made known publicly
until I have purchuasd and fitted up a house
up-town. We can be married here--I can
send for th( minister, Mrs, Cancouse can be
.t.                '
a witness . .
" And my mother ?"
"Of course if you wish it, only I fear
that in her fond joy at seeing her worship-
lpeti child happily provided for, she'll pub-
liah the news before we wish it spread!l"
" Oh i'll warrant her prudence. She
never refused me a request and for all the
world I would not be married without her
knowledge or without she was present. I
would feel as if God would not bless our
union, if I did !"
"Well, sweet one it shall be as you wish.
I wish only to make you happy !"

ERT AD PoLrOy DEALERs.                61
n    "Dear, noble Tullus, how can I ever
a- repay you for such goodness and devotion.
e A whole life-time of unwearying love will
- I give to you-I will work for you, cheer
t you through every care, beall that woman
t can bet"
"And you will be ready to marry me to-
h morrow evening i"
- "If you wish it, I will reveal my happy
lot to mother at once and get ready as soon
as I can t"
a "iess you my own sweet Constance. I
Sam indeed a happy man, and to you I owe
all my happiness !"
Again and again he printed his burning
-kisses oi her willing lips and madly pressed
her lovely form to his raging breast.
CHAPTER XXXIV
Two days had passed since Vanroy left
Laura and her child at Ishmael's country
residence. The first day passed off rather
wearily, though Miriam the lovely daughter
of the Jew, passed most of it in her comu-
pany, toying with the beautiful child and
trying to amuse her with her simple talk.
Miriam was evidently a child of Nature.
Her father had guarded her with nistr
like care from all contact with the world.
She had never been abroad except in his
company and very few visitors, and those
only of his own selection, ever visited the
house. Never was veiled and cloistered
nun guarded more watchfully than she.
On the morning of the second day, Laura
accompanied by Miriam descended to the
garden, which surrounded by a very high
stone wall, like a prison yard, lay back of
the house. It was beautifully arranged and
kept in constant order by the coarse and
repulsive looking man, who was described
in the twentyseventh chapter. Miriam had
attended to many of the flowers, for liko
most young girls she was very fond of them.
"Why does your father have his garden

I

I

/ ,
'
_
_
y_.
r4
-: -_.Rs
b
.
Y   J

I
1(


'81    ~THE WHE~EL OF~ M
surrttunded by such a high wall, and spiked
too with sharp iron spears on top, Miriam?''
aaked Laura.
"itcause he has much money and jewels
stored litre he tlls me," replied the girl,
anti ie says that there are many bad men
ant thieves in the world, wicked men who
would rub it and run away with me and
abuet-' ei' if they could get me. It must e
a very wicked world
- It is it is! muttered Laura-'' a cold,
cruel. litartlest world, rotten to its very
core and tilled with mockery and decep-
Th'n father i' right to keep me front
contact with it ! 'ail the young Jewess.
a ito you never wish to go abroad, does
this it steit mItre like a prison than a
h t' :t -ketld Laura.
i h lit-I have so mouch to amuse tea',
I ha mt iirtli to feed, ty flowers to w
ter : if I would pilay  nd sirg I have my
harp a:i'l ntiue ; if I would work there is
yt 'brihl rv-th no, it is hnrne to me and
I'm happy ! c
"I I'b  iy  it since your mother died
''I ti it know. I niver saw her and if I
ak bIihir about her ie gets gloomy tnd sad
and -ays nothing. I only know that her
name w a  Itagar "
i E   r  '' ii'? Vhat a singular name -yours
is a  '  t  pr t ty t nale!
- either cio-e it for me !" said the maid-
en.'"
It is strange that Augustus stays so
long. " nid Laura-  he said he'd surely
be here by the second day and now night is
conning on and no tidings from him. It is
strange--it ii cruel
t Where is your little Frankey ? asked
Miriam.
" U p in my room, I left the little cherub
lep ogp,
" May 1 not bring him down to play
with us?"
"Yes, if you wish to-the air is pleasant
here, it cannot hurt him1"
With a merry song on her lips the light
hearted and light-footed maiden bounded

rsrFORTUNEf; on,
away, but soon returned bearing the laugh
ing boy in her arms.
At the same time, the sound of the roll-
ing wheels of a carriage were heard ap-
proaching the outer gate.
My Augustus is coming ' murmured
Laura, while her pale face glowed once
wore with the light of happiness and r --
newed hope. Taking her boy in her arms
she ha-tened to thttie door to meet him who
in the eyes of IIeaven was her husband.
But be was not there. 'A stranger stool On
the thrtshold. it n as the driver of the
carriage. lie held a letter in his hat!
which he was about giving to the house-
keeper. Laura recognized Vanroy's hand
writing in the  uitrser'iption - it was ad-
dresstsed to her. She opened it with a tr mr-
ling hand, wondering why ie had not
come insteatl of writing. The letter was
trief--but to her satisiaetory.  It real
thus .
I am too buy ittnimtkitig my inal ar-
rag+nlt't to leave, to enttt' my silt, there-
tilt setntd a tlarriag' i ttyou. 'the tarer
will conitluet you sately to the essel iin
u.wh iIhop  gtgrd  ur1- egto Flor -
da, ' herI I shtal sltl. I wili await your
ura  at ithe tessel. which will sail to-night
or eatly im the moriting. In haste. Ever
your own
Girs."
" Oh hurry ant have my things brought
down !'' cried. Laura to the botsekeepter'-
I can get ready in a few moments, he is
waiting for ie and wet iare to go to live in
that balmy land of flowers of whose eternal
verdure anti beauty I have read Sit iituht
Sl'mi sorry you are going to leave its 1"
sighed Marian, "I shall feel lonely when
yi)u are gone !'
" I wish you too could go !" said Laura
and then sit hastened away to prepare for
her journey. aided by the housekeeper who
had received her instructions, as had also
the carriage driver, from Ishmael.
CHAPTER XXXV.
. Fr was evening. Mary Brennon was seat-

ITE VTCrTMs OF LOIrR
ed in her little sitting room, waiting for
her husband to return from his business.
Tea was ready. but he waslater than usual.
Was it a wonder that she looked at the
clock and sighed? That young wife was
thinking how early her husband had hur-
ried home during the first-days of their
marriage-how,almost breathless from haste
he came it and clasping her fondly to his
bosom imprinting fervent kisses on her lips
and brow. And she sighed because she
felt that a change was coining over him,
that the spring-time of love was losing its
freshest, sweetest flowers.
So it is too often with man, somefincs
with woman. They love madly, wildly, at
first, are hungry in their attachment, but
then like one who his partakei of a hearty
meal, they are satisfied, their appetite cloys
and their hunger is appeased-love gives
way to indifference and at last it becomes
utter forgetfulness. Like the sti'camraised
in a mountain ravine by a sudden shower,
the torrent is for a brief time resistless and
impetous-like it when the shower is over,
the source is dried up by the sun and the
stream is no more.
" He used always to be home by six1"
murmured Mrs. B.-" it is now after seven,
nearly eight. Charles Is changing-he is
neglectfulI"
Her face before so sad, suddenly lighted
up with joy, now, for she heard his well-
known step at the door. She rose and hur-
ried to the door. expecting the kiss and
inbrace which he had always been so ready
to give, But she was disappointed when
he entered the rioon, for he merely remark-
as lie took of' his hat, " You needn't have
waited tea for me. Mary. I dined qnite late
with a friend!" '
No kiss-no kind word, no fond look.
tier heart felt chiled-she felt stifled-she
could scarcely'restrain a rising tear.
"A cup of tea will do you good, dear
Charles!" she murmured.
"No, I don't like tea, especially after
I've been drinking wine I"l he replied, cast-
himself drowsily lown on the sofa.
Mary had noticed that his face was flushed

T AND POLICY DEALERS.                83*
when he came in, and thought that it way
caused by his rapid walking.  But whet
she bent over him to fix the cushion of the
sofa under his head, she detected from his
breath the cause of the flush, and for the
first time the fear came upon her that she
had linked hir fate with one who might be-
come a drunkard ! In a few nonents lie
was asleep, snoring as loud as a Mississippi
Steamboat.
Then she sat down in a rocking chair by
his side, leaving her tea untasted. end
wept. Were not the tears of that lurid con-
fiding, pure young wife, registered again:-.t
him in heaven?  Wehtceve thejy were!
At the same hour, while Laura was speed-
ing toward the vessel where she expected to
meet Vanroy, the latter was seated iii the
parlor of Mr. Anthon, whispering low-toned
words of love from his perjured lips to Lyd-
ia. And with all the coniding innocence
peculiar to a maiden who knows but little
of the world, the young girl wif t willing
ears listened to him. lie was her first love,
-in her imagination lie was perfection p
sonified-all riobleness, nl generosity, all
goodness-and then she thought he twas so
very handsome ! Iler lips coveted his his-
ses-his voice was sweetest music in her ea.
Already-she looked upon herself as almost
his wife.
"IHas your sister consented to tc married
on the same day that you are?" asked Van-
roy.
Mr. Dennioon wishes her to ?" replied
Lydia, "but Eugenia thinks it is too hasty,
-she wants more time to prepare in I"
"lut you do not, dearest, do you?'
"Dear Augustus, I only want to pleuns
you-I think our marriage is hasty, but ;f
I can make ,jou happy 1 shall be happy.-
All that I want is to please you and to sat-
isfy father. Our goad Mr. Anthon has sent
for him, he will be up soon. an'. then all the
final arrangements can be made."        9
"I hope they can be hurried up, clear
Lydia-I hate delay, and feeling as I do
that we are already wedded in heart by the
strong hand of HIM who makes hearts, 1
cannot bear to tarry for the few cold words

I

 I1
t,
k1


'4                        THE WHEEL OF MfMwFonTUNE 1OR
which the law makes it necessary for weak ful and honorable as to leave regrets be-
man to utter to bind us together. Marriage, hind me when I go down into the grave
apart from the vows which heaven hears    "Bless you, my son, bless you. Lydia
and angels record, is but a mockery in my has ever been a good daughter, I hope she
opinion. How many a marriage vow uttered will prove a good wife!"
below, but not coming from the heart, and  "She will, she will l" said Mr. Anthou-
never recorded above, is broken."       "but come, Newbury, let us old fogies go
" There is one thing I hate !" said Lydia. down stairs and open a bottle of wine, young
it is the law in this State to advertise in- folks get along a heap better when they're
ten tions of marriage, or have the bans pub- alone!"
lished in Church. I would faint almost, to  "I believe they do ; Lydia tell Eugenia
hoar a hoarse clerk bawl out in church, 'hear I'm here when she comes in !"
e, Augustus Yanroy, Esq., intends to     "Yes, sir I"
marry Lydia Newbury, spinister, the Lord  The young couple were alone once more
permitting. within three weeks from the And what,fair reader, do you think they
publishenint of these banns!' "        did as soon as they were alone. )o'nu
" la! ha! That would sound funny.- blush, for maybe you'll do so yourself some
but we can avoid that. In the State of New time, they kissed each other. Yet what a
York we require no license-no banns are difference in their kisses. Hers as pure a
published there. It is but a short and pleas- the May zephyrs when they breathe upon
ant trip to the city of New York and we can the lips of the opening flowers; his, like the
go there to be married !"               scorching sun of July that touches but to
"So we can, and it will be better, but wither and destroy. The one pure and re-
hush, there comes Mr. Anthon, I know his freshing as the grateful spring that escapes
step-and oh, father, dear father is with laughingly on the hill-side from its subter.
him, I hear his voice !'              ranean imprisonment ; the other like the
Lydia was right. It was the step of Mr. gush of the muddy torrent, shower-born.
Anthon that she had heard, and her father's that dashes in a desolating path from the
voice. With a bound light as a bird in the mountain's rocky crest-the one, ever-living.
glad Spring-time and a cry of delight she eternal as TRUTh ; the other full for an hour
sprang to her father's arms, kissing his pale then as dry as the hand of modern charity.
brow which wore not only the indelible    And now, while they kiss and we philo
marks of time, but traces of thought, of sophise, we'll leave them.
mental labor. lie returned her caresses
affectiobately and then asked-
- Where is your sister, child ?"
" Gone out, father, with Mr. Dennison, I
believe, but I have forgotten or neglected
to introduce you to Mr. Vanroy !"
You did not forget to speak of him in         CHAPTER XXXVI'
your letters. inmy child, but I am happy to
meet him. Mr. Vanroy to me you are a     LAUni was on board the vessel.
strangerbut the warm and strong commend-  "How soon will my husband be here ?"
ations bestowed upon you by Mr. Anthon, she asked, as she saw the crew loosing sails
and the love which I am assured Lydiafeels preparatory to getting underway.
for you, warrants me in throwing aside all " I expects he comes directly, himeby,
ceremony and greeting you as a son !"   pretty soon, when he comes !" replied the
" Sir, as a son to you. as a husband to my Dutch skipper.
own sweet Lydia. and as a partner to Mr.  Holding her sleeping boy in her arms and
Anthon I shall ever endeavour to be so faith- wrapping her shawl closely around him to

TUE VICTIMS OP LOTTERY AND POLITY DEALERS.

keep off the chill of the night air, she pace
the deck. But he. Augustus Vanroy, di
not conic.
The sails of the vessel were spread-bu
a single rope held her to the wharf, th
breeze was fresh, and all the time freshen
iifg from the northwest, and the old craf
tugged at the rope like an oat-fed hors
with a green pasture in sight.
"Mein cot in himmels, vy der duyvel
don't he come !" muttered the skipper, a
he sent volumes of smoke up from his tier
schauin pipe. Eveii as he spoke, Ishmael
appeared on the wharf, and puffing an
blowing as if he had been running a "quar
ter-race,' came aboard, lie drew a can
'ass bag from his pocket and handing it to
the skipper, said-
"I)ere, Captain Scratchdermast, dere islh
de mniish"
Dat ishi coot-it ish seemlick-now we
are ready to go
My husband, where is he ?"     asked
Laura.
-BIimeby, pretty soon, directly lie comes,
I dinks !' salithe Captain. At the same
tune isinel leaped on shore, the rope was
cast off, the vessel tilled away before the
breeze and dashed down the bay.
"My husband ! oh, do not leave Augus-
tus, for my baby's sake, wait till he
comes !''
. Yes, bimeby, when I gets across to Hol-
land, den I waits for him !" said the skip-
per, with a coarse laugh.
Then she understood all, she realised
that she had been once     more  basely
deceived. She sank down helpless and
fainting on the deck.' The rough skipper
had heart enough left in his callous frame
to feel some pity, and he had her and the
child carried below and placed in the best
state-room in the cabin.
Meantime his craft was dashing out of
the bay with flowing sheets, her spars buck-
ling and bending under the force of a vale
wvhtich as she drew out from the land in-
reused in strength. When they discharged
their pilot, they had to take in top-gallant
sails and an hour later they were under close-

i reefed top-sails, the courses hauled up and
d siugly furled. The old skipper's face wore
a sad and gloomy look as he stood near the
t helm, now glancing at the compass, then at
e his creaking spars and then to windward
- where the clear, cold-looking sky told him
t that the gale had hut just commenced to
e show its strength.
Four hours later. The gale was at its
s height. The old craft, now only under her
s topsails and the fore-storm-stay-sail,plunged
- and pitched into the heavy seas as if she
I would bury herself 1Ier crew. silent and
1 anxious, were on deck, the old skipper had
- thrown away his pipe-he felt that he had
m more to do than to smoke just then. Where
was Laura ? Sleeping, amidst that turmoil
of fearful elements? .Nh. She could not
sleep but it wds not the storm that seemed
terrible to her-it was the thought that hi'
for whom she had perilled, lost all that was
worth living for, had deserted her and the
sweet child which all unknowing of its de-
solation slept upon her bosom. Had it not
been for that child, she would have leaped
into the foaming yeast of waters and perish-
ed, but for him she lived, for him, her angel
child, she felt that love, all-enduring and
eternal which only a mother can feel.
Ten hours later. The night had passed
away, but light made the storm appear even
more terrible. The topmasts and upper
yards had been carried away. The sea rose
in great blue mountains, snow-crested with
foam. One moment the staggering bark
would be lifted high upon their ragged
heads, then down,'down in the deep gulfs
below she.would plunge, seeming as if she
never would rise again.
Muttering now a curse and then a prayer.
the Dutch skipper stood by the binnacle.
glancing often at his compass. The wind
had chopped around from the North West
and now was nearly East,blowing in toward
the shore. Rock-bound as our coast is, the
mariner dreads the gale when he cannot
spread canvass enough to carry him clear
of it.
The vessel staggered on. It was noon-
but the skipper did not bring up his sextant

it

i
i k
x)
}
R
S
l
j


Tnaw~tI  x  Iotew  tTUB VIOTI3 OT LOTTERY AND POLICY ])ItALEIIS.                                                         7

to obtain his latitude. Longitude was what
he wanted most. But fate was against him.J
" Damn de luck, damn de woman, if I did
not meddle mit her, I dinks dip would not
come. Itamn old Ihimiiael mit his tousand
dollars, I wish he was overpoard mit it
around his neck 1 '
Land ho ! Land ho I    Right abeam,
Sir !" cried one of the crew.
" Yes, crt for dam, yes, dre ish more of
dr gout liek-a dam sight more rocks dan
!itd, and it der gale keeps on plowing we'll
kiiiow howt hard dy are plifore we goes to
slop. I)unider. I wish I was to home mit
miii fraui and do n ater was all dried up
like Moss did mit (Icr Rdti Sea !"'
The gale held on-the vessel,almo,-t with-
out control, drifted in toward the rock-
bound coast.
CHIAl'lklt XXXVII.
A wilmii sc'nii ! No  1Opeln your eyes,
my o uin lady readers, I know such scenes
in terest you !
Tullis (stlin dressed in more than his
usual tl :nit style was seated in his private
parlor. A .,tmtlenan attired in a plain suit
of black. wearing a spotless cravat of linen
n a, sated m am him. llad he occupied two
chair intl aid a prime huruna between his
lih, li'util hiave borne a strjking resem-
lbme  to M r. irih, the chief of the Lottery
I ion do I look, Tullius, priestly at all ?'
e yon look a -anetiled as old Onder-
donk himself, you'll do--I wish the bride
aould tcomn!"
"Sometimes a wish is father to a thought
oind by the time the thought is born the
wi-l i realized !" said Grab, ashe heard the
rustle of a dress and light footsteps ap-
Proaching.l
'Ie door opened and Constance, accom.
psn'iiedl by her mother entered the room.--
ier dress was plain, a snow-white muslin.

Upon her head. contratiiig with her dark
glossy hair, was a wreath of white flowers
interniixed with blue. She looked beautiful,
she looked happy. And she wa. She dhl
not know the serpent whose glitteriig eyu
had charmed her-his ftags had not yet
been fastened in her loving heart, the poi-
son had not reached her soul. Devil though
he was, she knew it not, and she looked up-
on him as an angel.
A blush sifiused her countenance whe 
she entered the room-it was not a blush
of shame, but one if happy inodely when
she glanced at him whonishe suppo,i to be
a minister of the gospel,he who was to spedk
the words which would forever bind her to
her heart's choice.r
SThe Revereil Mr. Otey, my deal Con-
stance !" said Catlin, introducing his friend.
" The r eri rend Mr. Otey bowed very low
to the young lady, lower still to her mother
and said
I'm happy, ladies on so auspicious an
occasion to meet you---very; happy- -may
with propriety say, decidedly happy
Then turning to Catlin he added
Are we not ready for the cereniony,
Sir ? When the bride is present the groom
should not be backward !"
SI am ready, Sir ! Dear Constance take
my hand
She did so. The usual ceremony. accord-
ing to the solemn form of the Episcopal
Church, was gone through. I1cr voice did
not tremble nor her check blanch ' bile she
uttered the responses.  She was bold in
her innocence, in her just intents.
The ceremony was over. She was, though
all unknown to her, wedded by an impos-
ter, ils wwwe. The vows had been spoken
which with he r never could be broken !-
She was indeed a wife.
Wine was brought in after the ceremony,
and the reverend minister did iot neglect
it. And warmed into enthusiasm by its
potency, lie said many things and made
many an un-ministerial joke which it is not
necessary for me inhere to repeat.
And now we'll leave the new married
couple to themselves for a while, and look

after some others of our dramatis per-
sonne.
CIIAPTER XXXVIII.
Tnsm: is a fine, four-story brick house not
man feet from the St. Nicholas hotel on
Broadlway. It looks like a private residence.
A silver plate on the door contains the name
of the -puted  owner or resident. The
window blinds, though, are shut close, the
place is silent as if no one dwelt there, or
so would it seem to the mere passer-by.
Reader, there is a mystery about that
house. Let us, you and me, go in and see
.if We cannot unravel it. How will we get
in ? Riig the bell of course. The door
opens, a negro servant dressed in livery ap-j
peart.
"Is Mr. Hern at home?" we ask.
'Yes, sal. but berry much engaged I'
replied Ethiopia.' It de gemplemen will
gib me deir card I'll see if cey can be admit-
ted."
" I left my card-case at home, but here
is a halt-eagle, that will do will it not?"
You're berry good, Sahl, but I hab my
strict orders."
"I know that--I've the pass word to the
the i-moms above. I'm an old friend of Mr.
!...
-Li, Sah, I s'pose all's right. Walk in,
SalitI
Well, we are in, reader. Up we go. At
the head of the first light of stairs is a door.
It is locked inside. I knock, it is partially
opened. I whisper a pass-word in the ear
of the janitor--we pass in. We are in a
room legantly furnished. Rosewood tables
here and there contain periodicals and news-
papers.  A  sideboard, marble-topped, is
loaded with decanters of wine and liquors.
The glittering glases are before us, shall
we smile?
We had better not! Those liquors are
drugged! But there is no fun going on in

TilE WHEEL OF MISFoRcTNF.ILo,

this apartment,, let us go higher. We try
another door-it too is guarded but our
countersign )SCs us. We enter a room
rather differently furnished. A sideboard
with its tempting display of liquors is there,
so is a roulette wheel. A faro table is
spread at the head of the room, before it
stand a numerous crowd. Who are they ?
IU it possible that we see a Judge there who
hut yesterday sent a poor wretch to prison
for stealing a piece of meat from the market
when his wife and children were starving in
a cellar on Orange street. It cannot be-
he is a Judge and administers justice. Ie
knows the law by heart and could repeat
the statute against gambling, verbatim.
Yet he is there, gambling.
Who is that tine-looking old gentleman by
his side. lie has not a nervous look, but
as lie stakes his cash on the turn of a card
his hand shakes like an aspen leaf in a gale.
lie is betting heavily. And, wonder not, for
it is true, that man is Mr. Brent. He com-
menced with the lottery, he is now trying
his hand at another kind of gambling.-
Where will he end? Read on, you will prob-
ably find out.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
ANOTHER wedding party. Lames, you
see I'm in the marrying mood just now,
don't, please don't take advantage of my
wealkness.
The party consisted of Mr. Anthon, Mr.
Newbury ana his two daughters and )enni-
son and Vanroy. They occupied two car-
riages, which took them to the Railrbad
Depot near the United States Hotel. I had
nearly forgotten to mention that Mrs. Deb--
orah had also accompanied them to thfe cars.
She was not going on, but she wished to see
her "pets" safely oft:.   '
"May the Lord o' marcy blese you ana
bring youhome safe d" said she, after kis#
ing them her last good bye.


A thrilll whistle and the cars were ofl.
Va.rv was   latled, for Tshmael had told
i: n thit Lautra was embarked. She was,
and at that very hour was on the stormy
can in a frail lark with " Death knocking
at t - dor'' lAnd he gi'tried in his fancied
- 't v. le forget that there might le " a
p L. i:; the eti aind the lip.'' and he
t      l , h  1h btroth+ed foudly to his side as
,tr. t fhilwd th miron horse with light-
,   d p: oier ft'heticountry.
h. t hour  ftiit Itston tO New York.
Theu tnm1, within the memory of the oldest
iblt II it. ts  iwhen it required four or
Is t "1n - t  make the transit. Yet only
iht hnrs I"on the time that our wedding
p.u t 1 "t lio-tot, hail elapsed, before they
Sr ii N N   Yorl:, anid then two of Johnny
Au tan'-stp nptr carriages carried them in a
n m:int to ith Irving Ilouse, where in
-   rin'o ,p apirtinits they 11 found rest.
Th' n ldinti was to tike pltce the next
.   o-n a- h had seen the party all com-
ii et at Vd tnty a-ke.t'd thtemt ito tx-
-     ut,1 iistartdto huint up Cathin antI
it  _1h 14went  foIwn Broatdway one of
b ota   hi vs was ervmng
SiIatill. otn three cents -dread-
SpI wink on the Long    latd shore!
If  li ol t panle to p'ureha' ua piPr- 'I'
td bf hi'4ithuik lie hail any iterest m lii
S  t cuintatiuled. l'erhaps he had. We'll
1 he aud lvei.
Vtro v lit+lentid to the office of Mr. Grah.
lie h,. il that getatlet an " solitary anid
alo in his glry,'' occupying two chairs
ts ual, aud ais usal entjoying the perfume
, o an old Jlrana.  Ilis face, rosy as
ever, lighted up with joy ais he saw his miii-
iltn approach, ant le cried
" Gu', my tyi, how are you-bless your
soil x'on look like a prince !''
" Al fuel Ike one too. Mr. Grab; I'm
thi happiest man out o' jaill"
Wihure is the bride?  You hiavn't left
ie, have you?"
- i to -she's at the Irving, with her
iter andt respected daddy. lie's a great
old manu-is going to make me a present of

thirty thousand dollars, as soon as the knot
is tied !"
" That's a go ! But is she pretty !"
" Rather sorterish, that way !  You'd
ougit to Se her !"
\Vell, of course, you'll introduce me
I don't know  whether it'll bi eafi.-
You're most too good looking, Mr. (Grab.''
- l'oh--nonsense-flattery, py boy! I1
was o'nce tolerably good-looking, hot inm
getting vulgarly fit. now.  I smoke over
thirty cigars a day, but they wont bring
me down !"
" Von need exercise. You ought to rid"
a hard-trotting hours I''
I'd sooner swill vinegar than that. But
when are you going to be' married
To-morrow, at old Trinity, If you can
keep from smoking in church. comte and see
it (lone !"'
"I will-how did you leave things in our
line, in Boston !"'
All right, I've got over twenty good
agents, men that stand too high to b reach
ed easy ; keen, sharp boys who will tarn
their commission. We will soon hear o
heavy work there, l'vi got a big crowd of
ftl on the string now, anl will basket thent
all !"
You're a lrump. Gus, you're a trump !.
"es, the knave of trumps. I think even
Cai will acknowledge that I'm most a'
Ahairp a rogue as he is, no(w !''
"II does-we were spe'akimg of you yes-
terday. By the way he is mnruried."
" Married ?"
Yes, left-handedly ! The bride thinks
it is all right, but I guess before another ate
sets, or at any rate before the week is over.
she'll think differently !"
"Ah his old tricks. Catlin is the devil'!
lie knows more, and does more too, than
any other white man in America. But his
bride-who is she ?"
"A   Miss Morley, pretty as an angel,
smart in her own way, but not smart enough
for him !"
At this moment Catlin himself entered
the room.
And now we will leave the trio of villains

F

THE WHEEL O  M  ouTRTUNE ; ORL

TIHE VICTIMS OF LOTTE!
to concoct their devilish plans, and see if we
cannot get into better company, for worse
we cannot be in. Pplicy and lottery deal-
hrs are so far below a common till-thief that
it would be an insult to the last class to
name them in the same breath.
Yet our judges, lawyers, policemen and
merchants go hand in glove with them, and
treat them as if they were gentlemen-
heaven save the mark?
CHAPTER XL.
IT was morning, and Mr. Brent was in his
counting room before nine o'clock, a thing
very unusual with him. his face was pale,
but his eyes looked red and inflamed, as it
he had either beei up late the night before,
or had been dissipating.  He paced the
room to and fro, after clasping his hands
nervously together, and muttering to him-
self.
Over six thousand dollars in one night,
gone too at a gambling table ! What led
me there? Why did I go ? I was invited
as a friend and a gentleman to merely look
at the game. I looked at it, others were
winning, I thought I could, and now I'm
ont over six thousand dollars? And I've
spent nearly a thousand dollars for lottery
tickets since I drew a prize. But luck must
change. I wish Charley would come with
the key of the safe, I must win in my next
trial. I'll buy tickets, they're better than
faro, at any rate I wont spend money so fast
in them. Aft-there's Charley I"
Charles lBrennon too looked worn-out and
jaded as he entered the counting room. But
he noticed the looks of his father-in-law in
a moment and asked:
"Are you unwell father? You look ill I"
"I'm not well my boy. I've spent a bad
night-a bad night. I slept but little !"
'You show it, Sir. had you not better
go home and let me send for Doctor Root 7"
No-no my boy, I don't need medicine,
. or at least none of that kind. Besides I
aven't time to be dick. I've business this

RY AND POLICY DEALERS.                 69
morning, important business ! You've the
the key of the safe, have you not?2"
"Yes, father."
"Then get Inc a thousand dollars and a'-
that we'll go up to the Bank Coffee house
and try sonic of that old brandy, it will do
me good I tkink."
Charles Brennon stood for a moment in
astonishment. Long as he had known Mr.
Brent, he   never before knew   him  to
either go into, or propose going into a
liquor saloon. IIe had always said it was
no place for a business man. lie had warn-
ed Charles not to go to such places and now
lie invited him there.  What a change
And what was the cause of it?    -
It was that he had taken the first step in
crime when he had bought his first lottery
ticket. He had then commenced to gamble
-and the first step having been taken, the
road was open and he knew not whcre to
stop.
Thatfirst step when man or woman de-
viates from the right road, walks aside from
the chalk-line of morality and honor, is a
fearful one! It is worse than-a leap from a
precipice which at once destroys life, flor it
takes from life all that is im it worth pos-
sessing. Thus, you will ever see, those who
have taken the one step, dash madly on
over the turn-pike of crime, never pausing
until they reach the gallows, or are plunged
in the irretrievable gulf of misery.
Charles Brennon had taken that step, Mr.
Brent had taken that step, Mr. Montrose had
taken it, and destruction, utter ruin could
be the only result. It is as useless to at-
tempt to reform a gambler, as it is to rea-
son with a drunken man, or try to 'set a
river on fire with a pretty girl's greasy curl
papers.
And was it only upon themselves that
they were bringing ruin? No-it was up-
on their innocent famili s! Upon the good
and pure "loved ones at home."
Why do I write these line, what did good
and honorable men pass laws against gam-
blers and lottery dealers for?  To make
money?    No i It was to protect the inno.
cent who suffer from the crimes of the gull-
.

L


70                       TIHE WHEEL OF MIsFOaTUNE ; OR,
ty . I have op m i- this war against t   newsboy without noticing his cry, for little
lit ry del-i -, oni b half of the thousands did he think there was news in it that
w ho Ihave bern ruined by them, on behalf would interest him.  But reader, we will
of tii  who daly sailtir by it, and I've read the news, precisely as it is reported in
+: urn upoi the hlyuV no  of IiorOK, aind the herald, and thorn guess whether or not
vo ved in mV ow heart to drive them from  /rh was interested. We will counence at
ti city if lif' a- sparied to roe-anid I  the beginning-here it is:
or ne! If I perish in the attempt, the           ' EXTRA IIERALD!
b.-1- ii of rany a Wife will be breathed  Dreadful shipwreck !   Great loss of
oni my grie ; ih wil bVigor the i mnory life. Noble devotli of a self-sacrilicing
i netm ino oa v+l a ihubnlid aml father Iromtii mother whose baby was drowned !:Vessel
piin his la  cenit wit h the shark-like andil crew lost
p ley deiailer-. whii Iile those whinrro he should  " By our special reporter, who killed
snpjuiiot, were su -r:ng at home.  Arid if three horses in riding express front  the
other editors would do their duty in this scene-of disaster, we are enabled in ad-
car-'. thin would we triumph, for the press vane of all our blanket sheet coteipora-
is i mighiy enrii in fearless and honest ries, to give the full particulars of an an-
Iadl  hat a hernnoney-loving. sordid f'l, distressirng, ant oti melancholy eatas-i
b   u Ie-rs  tei1r p us for gain and not in troplhe upon the coast of Long Island.
Trt ih air.1 lIInors eiaue, then i it ai trail  - While our sagacious and talented re-
and r(ii1tn dpiairice.  An editor, as a porter was engaged in the plea'inig per-
frwi  afit t i  p 1:. hould be brave. lieu-I rmcian nce of ' opening a hasty plate" of
est. tentlli:l 1 1 apnible. and his sere- iins near the beach, he saw a crowd of
ic uadi   rein'mbnred and his name hon- citizens rushing wildly toward the sea shore,
t or  1u;i aftar he has de'cenlded into the aiidi upon raising Iris eyes aid adjusting his
gra     Anda, ahiia+ ha li Ves, the pleasant ey-glass he descried tar out upon the an-
i' i   n iii,  h a w iiii 1 inpottti'il c'nil Igry sea, a ship partially disma-teil, corning
a 'x''+ t '", a t1 e +iri.1:1  tt i  hll  i iit' i ehtelass  in  upon the surges, which,  accord-

anI pia&amp;iont  Such i  mian can be bIuapi-
r u ithinmi t in  iamp walls ltt' a union-t'ir.
than ai A  llin taaulth be i a1p ilace'.  Wthanii
it Rteinlal- air their tlrrones, Iasamits
sia airp  nlitle t a baIl of straw. Teit jiudlge
uiia r i  hi aael b whoi sanri  gurilt upoin a
ro a  a t  al  ih i tru  ike   - fi' li n l f a
amrt  iti i   t t i   ii
It Ily may pit that in his pipe and
iaLe it
CIIAPTERI XLI.
ExrarI I1-rald  Dre'adful shipwreck,
'nily six cntl ind twenty lives lost
yelled one of king Madldn's army of News-
boys. " A particular account, and a baby
droa n-ded1    Extra Ierald-only     six
cents!"
I .ail that Augustus Vaaroy passed the

ing to his judagrnwnt were at least forty feet
tigt-protbatbly more ?r
)rm' "r reporter, ever alive to the calls of
ui- rirng huummanity, iustutly dropped his
clam umibasin anl ruhed to a good point of
oitbarx atini, and being happily supplied
with naterial4 for o-dloing, took down mua
nile f t'iheentire't scene, a iin his own
graphic, but eotuent words. we give it.
T'lie sea rolled mountain high as if
'twoiuld link both earth and sky. and with
terrific roar it lashed the rocky shore. The
great white surges with tremendous splurg-
e rolled up upon the quivering beaches
wetting unrny a pair of breeches.  The
clouds above-by Boreas driven, were oft
with lurid lightning riven, and on she came
all recklessly although about a wreck to be.
Upon her deck a pallid crew who were about
to bid adieu to this vain world of show
where money makes the "grey mare" go!
And there in wild despair, her baby in her

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

71

arms, her bosom filled with wild alarms, wave, had not those men with strong but
her fhrm all full of charms, a woman stood friendly clasp held her within their grasp.
gazing on the flood all hopelessly. Oh their  Of all that crew that fair bereft wqs all
each manly bosOIi throbbed with firm  rc- alive, then left. The vessel was a ship from
solve to rescue her or die, and many a wo- Rotterdai, bound for a load of Wolfe's
man atood upon that shore and sobbed with Schiedam ; her captain's name was Scratch-
brine-drops in her eye. Oh had I but Llli- derriast, a German, born in IIollingar.
ott's skill i painter's canvas would I will, or  The rescued lady will arrive to-morrow
Biennet's nateicless pen to sketch and write in our city anid an olbject, she, of pity,-will
that fearful dight. I'd make each reader's we hope receive attention kind, her sor-
hair uprise on end as they could see it pic- rows to relieve.
tired there.

V  taVi  . l
'Twas terrible. Each wave that rushed
toward the shore, the hapless vessel to per
sad late bore. At last with fearful shock
she struck a hidden rock, and prose one
wild, mad shiek--the vessel was a w reck !
Plank fromr plank was torn, and here and
there .ie struggling forms of those who oft
had battled in the storm were seen, a no-
menit struggling in the foam, but soon they
passed away; " unknelled, uncofiined and
unknown!"
Bit clinging to a spar we saw a woman
fair, who to her bosom pressed her child,
and drifted o'er the water's wild. Not boat
had we to breast that sea, aid bold were
he who'd dare to launch one there. On-
on like a lily torn by the gale from ofl' its
ste mr, as helplesss and as pule she came.
More near-lucre near, anid then there were
who through the surf did wade to aid the
fair. At last so close that we could see
her lips in prayer move and note her eyes
upturned toward the skies, we thought her
sate. But sad to say a monstrous sea came
rolling on-a moment from our' view it
veiled her form, she rose, but her poor babe
was gone.
They -seized her as she drifted in and
bore her to the shore. "My child, my boy,"
she cried, "oy angel and my pride ; obr
where, oh tell me where is he ?"  Those
men could not reply-a tear-drop filled
each eye, and sadly, silently they looked
out on the sea. She needed then no word to
speak its fate, and like a bird that's lost its
mate and of its young beenrobbed she felt
alone and desolate. She would have turned
and sought a grave beside her baby in the

Our reporter is too feeble in consequence
of his superhumianexertions to give further
items this evening, but as soon as he is
somewhat recovered he will give further
particulars, which being prepared exclusive
ly for our Journalcannot be obtained by any
of our blanket sheet Wall street contempo
raries."
CIIAPTER    XLIL
Another day had opened, fair and beauti-
ful, the sun shone bright upon the spires of
Trinity Church. The of'iciating pastor and
his clerk were in the sacristy waiting the
arrival of a wedding party. It was ncar
noon, and at twelve the ceremony was to
come oif which would unite Augustus Van-
roy to Lydia Newbury and her sister to Mr.
Dennison.
As the hands upon the clock above poin
ted to within five minutes, the carriage con
taining the bridal party and their friends,
drew up before the lofty edifice.   The
groomsmen hastened to assist the ladies out.
At that moment another carriage, contain
ing a pallid female with one or two persomrs
else, was approaching up Broadway. It ar-
rived opposite the Church and at that mo-
ment Augustus Vanroy was leading his be-
trothed across the portals of the - sacred
building. Then, from the lips of the pale
creature in the coach arose a wild shriek,
but he did not heed it, did not seem to hear
it, for he passed on.
But the carriage stopped.


72                       THE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE ; OR,
The bridal party advanced to the altar.  She turned to look for him, but he had
Their steps echoed through that lofty build- tied. So it ever with guilt.
lg, as echo thie' steps of those who tread  Criminals are cowards, their own con-
over the nrl- ftlors of palaces in lands sciences are their accusers, and they would
where an a trn a- we are, lielpless as te fly fruin a shadow-.
Au', ate Iikd upoi wxaith  erverence and  And where w as Laura ? Did she  follow
an e, and bai', h cael' mcii culltheti e li' liartlh recreant No! She awt  him
ia iN;'.                                 lave, tnd had in- then stand there otitin d to
The mini-er and his tlik enftired, tie  tiry hr, slit would have scorned and
parties were a-kd if ithiy wert- remly to le-pis-d the ollri. 'Though sle was his vic-
prpeerd't, and ti+'E'(-d th ly'wer. 'Fhe'tuO, oim, though het hadt mrnk her down ml to (the
fair girls, their ailiancedt-lIt hands, and tleir gulf' of infaniy, she was in t he eight of God
grey-hairid father .with MI. Anthon, kn-lt as much more pure than he, as is a tear
before the altar. The pastor then a-ked, drop in a iniietering angel's eye, when
a usual, if any tntecould1 say why those tt tiicompared with the niutitly drops of blood
fore i slhu l nt tt  unlit- ititi  iim the holy which ooze front Iitheart of the fisterimg
bonds of w''lloI.  'I hat if such there recorpse of a mu ir-iri-.
wei-,- ty  b-ul I lthi n  1'pieak, or iortv-e  Ie left.d, coward-like, to stk advice troit
thereaftt hhll thir peace''. t.         his aSSOeitet.tieve'sshe remt~inefd to pray'.
Ftort a tiiiit.iVarty's failice t t pli, a  Li 'tla N 'xci i -aitebtry saIt three trds to e'
nr'i -i'lam   t ei" t  t totui, a- no t tit' a' tih' biial party asset out-" 'God bless
ap lt. ha  ent ( ' a to fe lafi.' Tl'ict  in is- i!' Vt . .t      .  . h
t -r r+ tf''-t i  em i  to ir'.. At  that  mo-  Viiow  mneh  a i there  contamnen  in  thorn
m.i nt. a 4  e - a ahnii, lou', su ee t ioe imp   le w '1ords nah'n spok en by kind Iiips, :and
(fi 'un                                          ttim a f'u /itg leait. (ttd ebles
"' I foi l dth's mria i ge .         you /. Retader I. \wi al/ need l Tis le ssmgi. .
l"'- u  wfids it it ,.'          tand'i  iw'  prayer eve'n  invoked  1by  a  sinner
"  I, th n   of Auttt' i tui fit   anrty----IIth  n'aill bei h'Itardt  aid  it-regi-ftired  atotIe.
mthe r of lt i htliiil.  lie tlareii not deny  Thn irtil parfy hlat iipassd away, l-ax-
it I iu   b  h 'i                        mt  lt- a ts lit-ttonish   Iinistt'r, and  the  f cx
t\ 1,+ +';,    tia  latdvane-  litfit  ' e- 1 lisp it.tr  wht hail gal lturd in, standling in
r  Iot+o sh alar.  Pal-, litgaii tIti  itilte spii'ti'rise, wontlting ihat the matter
- pit :ul  Am hi"liet s) lii-tv lyhtul iten- wa-, fu-or it was bteyonl thtimrcomltrehensioIi.
u   i, h-' lot . tItio on-- x hi ii ad tt  Latria ttiod still gazing at the cross of
iroktnI it iti it h h 1iti-f' a lunatic a'ylttan. Ch'i-t heftir iertt-. W hat wet thi thoughts.
Ilow al Vair v y .I ih ike i a tflf as like a -tatue of Mary Migdalen, pale,
i miiht m    h t -ae,. II -tdil oti xxwan. it -hiatituifl, there site stood I The
l    a .1     i-  ot Ii I - i t'tly. E   ht ,  xii',vil- !   hi   m liit troubtiti adhail clia-tenid  her  tn1 -
ai , hl iua'. quaiii It  r t iii-u"tveo  iteix. She ditl itotspeak-she did not turn
Lauat-a it , -' at hI  r vtitr   I.aI Nt-t tl- herglant- to thiet', who itying, stiot ble
bry liii  I tat him aitoe miintiltt, after silde lhier. Slit scarcely sceted to breathe.
ILaura thi -t;p=kn 't, nii'a turneil taxn .rd her lgid every linh not aim eye-lashi quivered,
fittr,                                  to tar drop rolldit down her alabaster
.- Let u' bt ."i   sihesaii, " I cannotet cheek. 1cr white hatds clasped before her.
muarry /hn i. tlhitavttiottn is noi maniac, ier lips unoxitig.
btt he it, my heart tells ime taith li is a  It was a picture --one that a sculptor
villain, anaiIs deceived nmt.  Father lbe tight study, ottly a true son of genius
us leave this place. my lips will breathe no copy
marriage vow within thcse walls."         They spoke to her, she answered not.

TiHE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.      -           73
11er eyes were on the cross. They touched brain, and you will see poor LAURA VNx
her and gently turned her away, and when noy!
her eyes were drawn from that blessed sym-  After that, if the afternoon is pleasant
hol of the death of Him who suffered to re- come down to the city, and among the best
(leei us from  sin and its dread penalties. dressed promenaders of Broadway, you cam
she glared wildly on those who would be- find Augustus Vanroy, and leaning on his
friend her.  ler lips pale as she had been, armn most probably some love-sick daisel.
reddened with blood as she bit them in an- who can see in dress and tinsel what she
ger, and with lhoirrid curses and wild shrieks could never disCover in a man of real worth.
moe those old aisles ring. Horrible were Reader, if you are a woman, or s girl with
her imiprecations. She tore the long brown heart yet untouched, beware of the heart-
hir in masses from her head ; her eyes, be- less fop whose merit consists in his dress,
fore so sad and mournful, now flashed and who, like many a tall forest tree, is all brush
glared like the orbs of an angry tigress. at the top and rotteness at heart. It is true
Th'liey were forced to hold her, to bind her, that the world is a wilderness without love,
She zit with her teeth, tore with her nails, but it is better to live hermit-like in a wil
and seemed as if she would tear herself as- derness than to dwell 'it a palae- and feei
sunder.                                   on tortures. Love not lightly-love wisely

Sniix wAs A MANIAC!
And t-lre was he wiIo had wrought this
ruin- io hat ildefi led a human lilly, torn it
uom its stein.dallie  with it while it was
beautiful, and now its leaves all torn and
tLAiied. had ca-t it into the mud of modern
charity to rut . Was he-writhing in the hell
,  .   i  l1    l[!n".7 C  . aii\nn  ,  )]L .

and love wtll

CIIAPTER    XLIII.
A council of war. Can there be any such

witt  t ts Suttc~etutet tot~its tor- utittie' li ting where women, those angels of bliss
til Was he suflirig re'imorse,aindfet /i0g one and ministers of pece, are present? where
tithe of the agony she had known  within an thiyu can tact as adlvis'rs. It wouhitl  settt
hour troii the time when she hiad listened that it cold not be. Not wxet-ping. tlou h
to ix iows, and given tim aill that woman, her heart was bursting, did Lydia Newbury
noble woman, blimded in her confidence can return to the Irving house with the bridal
give .Ni    A   lA she was turne in a carriage party. Wrong can hill love quicker than
up 1kroadway onl her way to the Lunatic anything else. Pride iounided, aftections
As ylu. he was sitting with Grab and Cat- trifled with, herself sought for what sheik ad
liiiin the parlor of a lottery oliice, sipping not for what she was, Lydia felt so indig-
wiine and  elating his adventures ! That Gon nant that she at once cast the wrieh from
is just I dare not deny. but so slow are the her heart, even more hastily than lie had
iioveme'nts ofJustee that seoffhrs of ten cait fled front her presence.
SaY, " slm is plIasat-it has noitg-l-there  ber ther am Mr. Anthon were loud in
is no punishlimient on Earth and none here- tlei' denunciations uxit wume titeimnined to
after -!"                               seek redress from the law. His partnership
Reather, you may tuink this story is a with Antion did not deter the latter from
mer-ftable--or novt.l. Go to the Asylum expressing his options, for it was more
it lac-kwell's Island, and ask the kind u- nominal than real, notes had formed the
peritendent to show you the skeleton of a principle capital invested by the young man
once beautiful form-to show you a maniac and his conduct had been such as to forfeit
whom   only at lucid intervals, when tears all confidence.
come to quench for a moment the maniac    Dennison was dumb. Had not Eugenia,
fire which like a furnace burn within her still confiding in his honor and his love


74                       'rr WrIEEL OF Mrst'oRTUNE ; 011,
clung to him, he would have been ashamnl  '. Shall I send for a minister ?'' he ask-
of his acIuaiintance with Vanrov; have left ed.
her whom he dearly loved, and those whom   " We shall not object !" said Mr. New-
he so much re-peted.   had he been a bury.
partner in. or coni-anit of Vanroy's vii-  " No. and as I am not to lie a bride, I can
liany, he would nit have datid to stay at Iea-t lie a brides-mad !'' said Lydia. ap-
the re. But he was. hItnrable and innoceiit yIarlig to be gay. though her heitt was
and they did nit donult hiti.          fart rom giladne'.
The counel of war alluil A to was hldl  ' liit yu'll ot he tan old inaid'' said
in their Iris ate hparur.                Mr. Authoii. tritg also to appear eay.
Let u hiav th'e w ith arrted ' said  " If I follow our exaniple I will'!" she
Kr. Aihuion.                             leplid.
ly all means he should be iinprisoned lint to shiortii the story, for reader Ini
for life !" sai Mr. New tuiry.         full a tiierel of wtritig it as you miisti h of
" Luther shit. le a dog!' said Denni- i'alintg it. IWill pa-s river minute paritiu-
son.                                      r at nd-;nilm511 ply stat' that then and tlire.iii
Or hung ." sail Mr. Anthon. " L"t u- t tie Irving Ioueu'. where many a aitr co1'
send for the Police and hav+e hiimin arre  hav' lin inited,Ii-nisonand:ngenia
ed !"                                    NuwburyVt' w'ei  m rriied.
" For w'ut f' said Lydia. calniy.      lint though they endeavoredA to Lip the
" itacht ofI pri e, seswitlliig. tail  pr- iiat t'r a secret ithe Iierald of ihe next
tne'.s,  ritbry.  i  ri ting /"''aid Mir Emoring coot ained nearly ill of the ftactsof
Art hun                                cor.econside rate /y withlholtting the names
" lis ha  not lrokin a priimiii ' rin oft the parties.-
.        .

w hltv  do not voc luntarity ziEii'a'i' iiii
t   rohtbbed me of even  poor a tiiig
.as my heart. Let the xw rtlch go " s'hei-
plied.
"I. at least, will hnrsexliip him!" saiud
Denni-un, for deceiving Ime a well us
wroniging you!"
" No. you will not !' said Lydia. calmly
-' nt wx ish tuti'nmmes in the papers. I

'li laxtielI their retro i  to th fluEat
where xwe ill lhave them for the )resent.
ChIAPTER XLJV.
Andm nOi on' miore for a glance at one

an suiliciently mortitie  noxw xWithout hay- of our ch earacteirs in whue everI riler must
in-o So m nny-a-line' serhibler telling the feel interesttdtl. Cossirues. Motov.
world it our athair !"                   She oul a's she supposed, been married
Th  girl is right. wouldd hurt timy' to 'tlin. felt happy. Sii' loved hum, loved
credit if my name was pullishi in the a at  only a woman in her first pasiion can
fair !" said Mr. Anthon. "And then I'msc lov,
disappointed. I wants'd ito see a wxedtding % We will again look at her as she is seated
so bad-I never xn as at one in my life!  it hil tagnifi a lirtuetit where we have
If I have not lost credit itere," said 'o oftin stee hir. We hiae repe'atedles-.
Denni'on. glancing at his betrothld and at criled her beauty, lt never when hr coun-
her father, 'von vet can see one !,      tamnance was si slfiis'd with a flush of glo.
rious happiness as now. 11cr eyes suemt'd
r.Youhavenothocredit with mc !" said larger, brighter than before ; her lips hurs-
Mir.Newbo~ry.                            ting in ripeness, her lovely form swelling
Eugenia did not speak, but she gently into fuller proportions. She was indeed
pressed his band and her large dark eyes lovely.
looked up in his. lie was answered.       She had beten married three days. She

F

THE VICTIMS OF LCTTERY AND FOLICY DEALERS.

76

had time to feel that it was a reality of joy " True, I am in eror, I might better call
and not a dream born but to vanish and fade you Miss-you have no right to the title of
away.                                   Madam and will never have until you find
le entered the room. IHis face was pale some one fool enogh to marry you!"
and a frown rested on his brow. lie sat   " Marry me-me a wedded wife ?"
downi at the table without scarcely noticing  " Yes a left-handed one, a kind of a spir-
her and commenced writing. She noticed itual wife, you see!"
his looks, and a :ihade of anxiety darkened  " Mr. Catlin what does this mean ? I can-
hi r ftir ace as she asked:            not comprehend you-in the name of the
" What is the matter, my lear husband? God who made us tell me what you mean 1"
Somietiniig annoys you!?"                " I should think you could understand
SYes-do not bother ite now-I am  not tne, but as you seem so dull of comprehen-

in the humor to 1)0 interrupted !"
She looked at him in butter astonishment.
iut as it she thought he was in jest, mwarly
trying her temper, she beut forward and
kissed his brow.
Oh go away, I don't like kissing he said,
quite rudely pushing her from hint.
'lullius dne rTullius. you are not seri-
ous in tbii unkind repulse, you are only try-
ing my teimper. I love you dearly, you need
not try mue!"
" Thenit go away, don't bother tue !"
" Mr. I'atlin is this the language to use
to a found trite Wife, who hai given to you a
pure heart, a free hand and her very soul-
used towards her when she has been your
wife but three brief days?"
My wife ! Yes, that is a pretty term
but it would be prettier if it was substan-
tiated !"
" Sultaitiaied? What do you mean?
In the name of heaven tell-me-we are mar-
ried, I love you, you love me !"
So you say, you may love me
" Tullius you do not doubt me !"
" No, but I doubt that your love will con-
tinue. I'll het a diamond ring against a
pair of gloves that you hate me before the
night is out--yes before the sun sets!"
Tullius why so cruelly jest with a fond
se'n-'itive heart ?"
" Im not jesting Madam !''
" Madam ? Why ever before you have
called me Constance, your dear Constance.
For heaven's sake tell me why is this
change? Neither in word, or thought, or
deed have I wronged you. Why do you
call me Madam ?"

sion, I will take the trouble to say that I do
not need your services any further in theso
apartments ; you can leave. You are not
my wife!"
"Not your wife ?" she gasped-" surely
the minister was-"
An accommodating friend of mine, only
so Niss Monley you may as well take a final
farewell of your temporary husband !"
She did not shriek or faint, or weep, as
the heroines of novels do, on such occasions.
Her tall trm seemed to dilate, her eyer to
enlrrge, and her red lips to pale as if frost
had touched them. She looked a moment
in his face and when she saw the villain
quail before her earnest gaze, she tlt satis-
fled of his guilt, of her own unintentional
guilt and of her irrecoverable disgrace.-
And then, while her eyes told him how sud-
den is the change from fervent love to bit-
ter hate, she spoke in a low whisper,
Wretch, why have you so wronged me1"
"To revenge the wrong your father cast
.upon me. Now go, courtezan, go and mia-
gle with common herd whose path is over
burning coals and the end of which is in the
Potter's field !"
"I go-" she answered, "but Tullius
Catlin, like the riven oak I recognise my
blasted hopes at a flash. "You may now
triumph' in less than an hour fear for thyself
for thy crime shall be rewarded !"
Then while her eyes flashed and her form
seemed still to grow larger and more beau-
tiful she turned and left him.
After she was gone, with a low sneering
laugh he cast himself back upon an otto-
man and said:

;F
P

j:


'I

TB1 WHEEL OP MISi'OhrUNv;i 01

"Well, well, so far for the first breath of
the gab. It blows but lightly I think I can
stand it-"                                           CliAPTER
1his vietem, when she left his hated pres-
ence, walked not wildly or hurriedly awiy  Whini 'Vanroy left Ithe

choireli, lie at once

but with a can firm step to the office of the  ri,i tet  tIe aprrtlt of I iah, f or foiled
District Attorney. Other , before a oI/iti- and terror-siricken, (I will not -av con-
clan her tale of wrongs she toll. For a scitence eared.for he had io cer eerr(,)I hle
wonder, it was listened to. Hi+] ad she inot ne(l li. aldvice and aid of older 'Ili ans
been beautiful, had she hern laggard wit  than himrielf.
poverty and sufferimr, had -he hena as il  lie Ind (rah at homI1 oeipe1in n1 ou-
the beggars and outcasts of  ur ehir-tin  ple of chair , and eniiglhtenirng his pr-s:ee
city, she would have been thrust forth frim and misty-fying his apartment with a prine
the threshold of Justice, unheard. But she Iabana.
was pretty and was listened to.             In as few words as po -ib Ihe related the
After she had told how she had be-n events which are decribed ifdin the  l (Iap-
deceived and wronged, she Was itiforred ter. Grabhlif-art it all and it was not until
that Tu lius atllin was under the sire-il- its conclusion that he. took the (ilar fr
lance of the Police, that there, iii the )i - his mouth, and removel his feet from the
trict Attorney's ofie papiers were tilled opposite chair.  Then hre -ai:l
ready for his arrest, that they pssesseil ev-  " Well, Mr. Au-ri.tis Vaiiroy, I mumfe say

idence which would send him to States
Prison, but that it was not yet deemed poli-
tic to arrest him. That though this evidence
and these papers had been in the possession
of the authorities " for some time, they had
not yet dccmcd it politic to use them!
Not politic iito fulfil duty ; to take an
oath and then break it ; to shield a crimiiinal
by delay while he commits n.ew crimes--this
then is policy, the policy of New York Jus-
tice! Yes, reader such it is. hundreds of
criminals already known, with the proof of
their guilt in the hands of those who are
bound to prosecute, are shielded by the
law's delay" or rather the delay of those
whose duty it is to execute the law.
Not disheartened but more determined than
ever, she left the office vowing vengeince.-
And when an angered wumun vows vein-
gence, then let man beware. She who is
an angel in her good-humor, is a devil in
her wrath.

for a man of your wit, y our practice and ed-
nation, you've naiki a d   iiprett y mens
of ti business. Why did it you swear you
didint fknow the w ora thatIne wasi a
maniac -ant have got thm to go on with
the cuereiony ?"'
" It was inupossible, sir, she was too wt
for me !"'
Nio, yon was too ;-low for her. A man
with money aid imudnce, and you have
plenty of both at yrr conrininl, can do
anything in this city. You ought to have
stood your ground, sir ,,
"I could not, Mr. Giab. It would have
startled your nerves to hear the voice and
see the forn of a woman, whom you with
your own eyes had seen but two or three
days before depart in a ship bound ont  a
voyage across the ocean. It seemed to nme
as if she hai arisen fromi the grave and I
was utterly unmanned. It would have uinr-
manned Catlin, and he is the nv.r, him-
self!"
"Did you name me ?" asked the veritable
Tullius, entering at the moment.
"There, I said he was the devil !" said
Vanroy.
"Well, and what the devil is up? You

71

both look as if you had just heard the first Barnum, for his trade was full as legal and

toot of G abriel's horn !"
"Good reason to-the fat's in the fire-
Vanroy is in a scrape-his marriage is bro-
ken olf and he will undoubtedly be exposed
and that will break up our Boston business
which had just begun to be p:oiitable .'
" The marriage broken off, how ?
Vanroy again detailed the facts as he had
already done, to Catlin.
Well," said the latter, after listening
quietly to the narration, this match being
broken off is rather hard for Vanroy, but
the matter won't affect our lottery business
in Boston !"
" Why not? I can see nothing but ruin
in it. Their exposure will ruin Vanroy,
there.
" Yes, were it imade, but do you think
they would he so foolish as to make it ? It
would but recoil upon themselves and ren-
der them sulbjeet to ridicule for being so
weak as to be so easily duped. There is
nothing so dreaded in this world as ridi-
cule. They will be glad to preserve their
reputations by avoiding any exposure, an(
all that we have to do is to place another
agent there in the place of Mr. Vanroy, who
can successfully attend to thei business
which has already conmmenced. Van can
be sent south or west to a new scene of
operations !"
" Well, Catlin, you always take things
cool and seem ready for any emergency !"
" Of course, and that is the grand secret
of success in life ! 1 have to-dry resigned
my new-made bride and told her to go to
the devil ; come cheer up and let's have a
Jolly glass of wine. I do not often imbibe,
but I feel in the humor to-day t"
Grab produced the wine and over it the
villainous trio not only recounted past ad-
ventures but formed fresh plans for the
future. Catlin stated that one love off his
hands, he had only to turn his arts towards'
Miss Montrose to make another conquest-
while Grab said he cared nothing for love
but all for money, and didn't see why he
couldn't make it as well as a Beach or a

as honorable as theirs.
A jolly time they had of it, and soon in
the oblivious and dreamy vapors of wine
and cigars they forgot the dangers which
menaced them.
C1IAPTER~ XLVI.
CoNSTANCe MoRLEY, when she left the
office where justice should be administered,
passed stern and stately up Broadway, un-
heeding the admiring glances which many
a promenader cast upon her magnificient
figure. She was studying how to be re-
venged upon her dastardly seducer. Poor
and powerless in friends, knowing that she
had wealth to war with, she was studying
what course to pursue for upon revenge,
and revenge alone, she tvas bent.
She did not notice that she was closely
followed by a man who was dressed in the
height of fashon, though not exactly fop-pish-
ly. He was alittle above the medium height,
rather well made up, had eyes as dark as
the door of night, heavy black whiskers
and moustache. His face was pale but not
intellectual. The animal evidently pre-
dominated in his nature. Yet he was one
that would not pass unnoticed in a crowd.
There was a kind of bold, fierce expression
in his countenance that would induce one
who did not understand human nature to
set him down as a brave man. Yet have I
often, and most often seen calm, quiet
looking men, who until aroused looked
meek as lambs, the most dangerous in a
fray, ready to lead the way where such
men as him I have first described dare not
go. And I may as well tell the reader at
once that in him I only describe a person
whom I know in this city. The last time I
saw him it was in the dress circle of Bur-
ton's theatre, with a lady by his side who
was not only a faithless wife, but one who
had deceived and wronged the truest friend
she ever had on earth. She started, paled
and trembled when she met my eye, for she
knew that I knew all her history. She

76

THES VICTIMS OI LOTTERY AND POLICY DrEL R.

i


78                    THE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE; OR,

whispered to him that I was there, and
when the coward raised his eyes and met
my steady gaze he cowered like a hound
ben-aatih the eye of its master, like a sheep-
stealing log that knows it ought to lie shot.
After a moment's conversatitoi the wretch-
ed, rnisguiided Wonian, whose beauty anl
intelett tnce so peerless, deserved a better
fae, arose and accompanied her paramour
from  the place. I spoke not, moved iint.
I lid not wish to know where they went,
I knew that s/u could never find happiness
It hr go where she might. I will call
this person )EGRNXE.uT, as any name wi*
do for a man who dares not assume in his
own country the name which he bore when
he was forced to leave it. At the same
timeI would say that though my readers
may sometimes meet him in the street, they
will not Ie apt to fiiii him in places of
atin-ent whn I am in town.
'Ibis I)eGerneari passed by Constance
Morley several times, and as often cast his
dark libirtine eyesupon her pale but beriuti-
tr face. ie could see that she was lahor-
iti nuder sonic iitents excitement, for her
'l'ehd iehtnds. her hurried gait. her blood-
le-ss lips, her eyes riveted' on the pavement
over which she pised. all betokened it.
And of this, if po-sib)le, he intended to take
n-ivantage to gain an introduction, for
alraly his i-yes gloated upon her splendid
tignrt.
'Tihey passed on up Broadway until they
reached lIaitard st ret where just as he
v. a about to pas hr again to get a glance
it h r fhee, her foot caught against anti n-
uae part of the pavement and she would
h av' fifn hid he not  prang forward and
it her.
She iconid nt but acknowledge the kind-
r.'sof tii' at and he at once opened a con-
V station .
". I way happy fair lady," he said " to he
ear to ail you, and yet you was the cause
tit!"
". I Sir ?"
Yes lady, I acknowledge to an impro-
priety-I have followed you for several
blocks, because you seemed unhappy and in

trouble, I felt interested and wished if poss-
ible to ser e you !"
She looked at him earnestly, seemed to
study for a moment what reply to make and
then said.
"Sir, how can you feel interested in a
stranger?"
" Lady, when a woman is in distress, ev-
ery true man is a friend and a brother to
her. If I can serve you, do not, consider mue
a stranger ! Trust in me
Sir, you are kind, but I know not whom
to trust, I have been receivedd, basely de-
ceived by one whom I loved better than life.
In whom can a wronged and betrayed wo-
man trust but her ('od."
" or further happiness perhaps none-
but for revenge of past injuries--
" Al Sir, that is it-you have spoken the
word, revenge. reenge is all I seek. Oh
if you are bold enough-but no, I should not
a=k you, who look so bold and good to in-
cur risk or danger for me a poor friendless
stranger !"
Lady, do not deem me a stranger. If
you have been wronged, I dare to, anl will
punish the wronger, Tell in your history:
Aih, Sir, it is a sad but a brief one-per-
hiaps when you have heard it, you will des-
pise me!"
Never lady, one so beautiful as you
could do no wrong in my eyes !"'
She looked at him  as he uttered those
words, as if she would read his soul through.
She knew that if iris irnentions were honor-
able, that was no time for unmeanirn com-
pliments, no place to speak them. And de-
ceived once, she doubted him. lie saw the
doubt pictured in her expression and has-
tened to remove it,
Laady," said he. "because I so boldly
spoke of your beauty which none could see
and not admire, think not it was that which
interested nie or caused me ts other my servi-
ces. I an no common flatterer, no dangler
about the skirts of the female sex. I saw
that you was unhappy, I feel interested, I
with candor and true-hearted kindness of'
intention offered my services. It is for you
to accept or reject them t"

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.                '9
"Sir, excuse me-excuse one 'who has they will feel the point of my remarks-
been deceived, if a doubt as regards the mo- Some of you six months ago were happy
tive of proffered services crosses her mind, now you may be wretched ; some of you
I will not doubt you now. I do need a then looking forward to joy and happiness
friend. a bold, daring friend, and with my in the dim distance, have found thorns
life I would reward his services !"     where you expected roses. Some who then
"Lady, let me accompany you home, tell were poor and miserable, now are well off,
me what you iwish done, andl it shall be able to enjoy a perusal of these lies and
done !"                                 appreciate the change which six months of

"J/ec! I have no home !     Humble
though it was, 1 had one before he met me,
but to go back to my poor mother, dis-
ya'cd'.' I cannot! I Cm!T"
' Lady, did I not fear to ofhnd you, I
would offer you the use ,of my own apart-
rnut-I can remain at a hotel!"  -
"Sir, kind sir, 1 thank you. I tlo not ask
you to give up your apartments, but if you
can afford ie one small room where I can
remain secluded and alone until my aim is
accomplished, I will accept your kindness!''

time may produce.
But moralizing isn't in my line. I'll go
back to my story for it is now near its close,
and I know the reader must be as anxious
as I am to " see it out."
Remember that six months have elapsed
since our characters have appeared before
us.
it is midnight. Mary Brennon sits in the
room where we have so often painted her as
a fair being blessed in her happiness. the
angel of light to a fond young husband.

Lady. you shall have a room,'sacredly Her face, once so rosy, is pale; her figure,
private to yourself, and I shall feel lion- once so gracefully rounded, is thin ; hercx-
cred by your acceptance of so simple a pression is worn and desolate. There be-
favtir !''                              side the lamp she sits, and gotten presses her
" The flu'or to ine. as I amt nOW situated hands against her forehead as it it ached
is great indeed, and I  accept it freely as it with pain, and ever and atiOii long d'awn
is offered. ani trusting in your honor !"  sighs heave up from her0 bosom. At each
" Then lady, take my ari, we will soon distant sound heard from the street, made
reach my aputnents, and then I will fui'- by sonic passer-by, she starts. When it has
there bold myself obedient to your orders!" died away again, she sadly tinks down into
Shte did not reply. andi De Gerneau, glo- her seat. She is waiting' for her husband.
rying in the hope of possessing another vic-  Midnight is passed-moriring, yet dark
tin, led her off  And with him for a time and gloomy is ushered in. Dark andi gloomy
w' must leave her. Yes, sad though it he, as her own prospects. Patiently still she
with a keen, desiring, talented, unscrupu- sits there. One, two, thrtehours have been
luns wretch, devoid of' hinror  courage, bit told by the clock, yet the din lamp burns
with tact enough to conceal his faults and and yet thewvife waits.
inagnif'y his apparent merits, we must leave  Alt ! She hears footsteps; they are ap-
that noble-hearted. lovely woman ! Gov preaching, they cease to beheard when they
help her i No one else can.              arrive at the threshold-the door bell is
rung. She springs to her feet, at last he
has come!
Quickly she opens the door and lie enters.
CIAPTES XLVII.               Friendly as he used to do-swith his clear
manly brow and his spotless cheek flushed
SIX MONTHS! Iow much can trans- with joy only, at meeting his true, fond
pire in six months--how much of weal and wife?
woe to men or to nations. If some who read  No I Who is it that ntere  It is the
these lines will look back over six months, wreck of Charles Brennon.  His face is

i
t
k
t
E            I


E0                       THE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE; ORn
flushed, but it is the cursed hue of rum that  " Have we?  W'ell if it's drank we can't
stains it. His eyes are sunk beneath his get it back again, but I say M-Mary, I
brow and his hollow cheek and wasted form  must have a drink to settle my stomach and
show what six months of dissipation have make me sleep-can-can't you go to the
lone for hint. His cheeks are darkly flush- druggists round the corner for me and get
td. and as he enters the hall he has to steady some? They keep watch p-pill the night
himself by leaning against the wall. hisx bell and they'll let you in. Tell 'em it's for
w ife olierves his state, but does not reprove a sick man a poor fellow a dying' of the
i:m t                                  chol-cholera!"
xn that a sofiering atngel youth can   Oh Charles, you need no more liquor.
b" :! .t, s hat a haoartless fiend you can do let mte take you to your bil !
becotc whi yon yield to other influences - "  M-Mary do you think It i druni.
than tho.e which less the domiestie-altar, I know what I want. I'm too sober now, I
the tireside at home.                   couldn't sleep. One more snifter of old
M-tMary. is sup-supper ready !' stai- cogtiac would make me say now I lay ue
tted t Charles is hi' came in.        down to sleep. I pray--Ive forgot the rest.
" It s ea-ight liouir ago!'' she replied I knew it all when I was a child. Conw
';aly. "' l Chtrlis, why have you staid ntit you guiaitter the biatdy :"-
out so late' ? I have been so wretched wait-  " ' Charles. please do not drink any mors
in for vott                            to-night
'Wretcht-wretcleod  Why you ought to  " Why -btuld-shouldn't I? I left our
have t-h en along is ith us. ie and father oltd daddy, your father and my father-in-
an i Cat -('atlin have hid sth a iolly spi''e. law as drunk as a coot ntit a hal n iiiihour
Wt e drank our t re --three bottles apiece, ago. I don't like to see mhin takim' to drink
and Itold it tik mIon. That Cat-Catliii is in-ther, for the lisi tnes is going to the
a  Iuui-a oI 111ow, ho pro-proosed devil. ilit then if' /r o l comes p tiglt,
ur ii ihlt and we drl-drank it. Yts we what lo we care for b iuoiess.  e'sgoittt; a
di .'                                   whole package of tickets on tie '" consobs
"('i hari-, I cire it fir hialths, come in dated, of Marylatnd, anti the old man is in
il go t il  d !'                  for the e'banes  toti!'
To I-d. tihi time 'of nightW; Why n'  Oh Charsle. Charles. I wish you had
bea'utv-htd yy-vu utist be crazy.  We icver see  a lottery ticket !
haetnt sptnt halt the eight' '          " Why, old gal didn't I win a prize and
Cimrl:s it is nEarly four o'clock. Do buy youit a five thousand dollar set of dia-
'loi, m  u tit-ba pl.jilt 'se come  '  minitdtls.
t er tiat lyfOur o'clock, then it i.s   " Yes Charles, but do you forget that last
taost tiii to go to hed. Mary have you wei-k you sold those very diamonds to raise
got sii -sippeu relay ?'' money to spend i the sttmie way ?'"
SYe- Charles but vou need rest, you do  "Well, that is a fact, but when I draw
not ne-d stood at this hour !''         the' next prize i 11 buy you more. Now
" Yes I do, I  wait soein lobster saltat anti don't nake a fiool of yourself and cry, if'
some h- ady aun' water t            you doti-n me if I don't go out on ano-
" Th-re is no brandy in the house other spree. Wipe upyoureyes; come--I'll
Char'le!                                go to bed hut I must have some brandy to
- No nittini ? Why M-Mary I botiglit a cure my heatlche iii the morning !'
dtmijohtn oly a day or two ago of old     Brennon staggered in and lhis wife follow-
Otarl from my frienId Rossborne and you ed. She did not p-braid him, but tears
kto  it'                              like ice-drops frozen by the witttery hand
" But you and your friends have drank it of grief,slowly rolled down her pale cheeks.
sll upi"                                  Lottery dealers, look at that true picture

THE VICTIMS OF LOTTEI
and if you have wives and daughters, feel
for the suffering victims of yqur thieving
practices.
CIIAPTER XLVIII.
-AxoTiEt scene. Visit with me the parlor
of Mr. Montrose, in the same cottage which
a little more than six months ago he mort-
gaged to Tullius Catlin. Do you rei'me-
ier the lovely daughter whose money her
father spent to buy lottery tickets with ?
She is there and by her side sits Tullius
Cat in.
She does not seem happy that he is there,
for although he is pouring the dulcet words
of love andt flattery in her ear, she sits cold
anti passive as it' he was reciting a lesson.
She tloes not seem to feel that his burning
libertine eye is riveteI upon her graceful,
volthitiuis foriias th serpeits is upotn the
lird it - ishes to ''charm' to its destruction
lie toes not seet to hear his words, but
at intervals she ret lies. Let us listen to
w hat he says, and see if' lie knows how to
make love now as well as he did when he
ruined poor. noble Constance Morley.
Miss lettie." he aid, "why will you
ever treat inc so coldly. For months I
have worshipped at your ft, have endeav-
o'(ed to prove my love antid devotion to you.
Your father favors my suit ; why are you
so cold, why do you act so heartless to
moo
I am not acting Ieartless/ Mr. Catlin.
1 1' not love you, never have, never can !
1 hope you are toot uticeht if a man to even
wihl to accept a hand which cannot be ac-
ompanied by a heart !"
But Mi-s Ie e-, you would love me af-
ttr we were married ; I are willing to risk
it?"
"So am not I, Sir ; I know myself and
think I know you! besidess, by a friendly
haud that watches over your every step, I.
have been warned, was warned when you
made your first visit to me. Did .you ever
know one Constance Morley ?"

LY AND.POLICY DEALERS.                BI
The villain started and turned pale at
her sudden announcement of that name.-
But in a moment he recovered his presence
of mind and replied
"Yes, I knew a woman of loose character
once of that name, at one time I believe a
mistress to Willis or some other person-
but what of her ?"
"Who seduced, ruined and then abandon-
ed her, Mr. Catlin ."
" I do not know, but as I have nothing to
tho with the person you speak of; I am won-
dering why you ask !"
Because, Mr. Catlin, I abhor deceit. I
am satisfied that you, through a mock-mar-
riage effected the ruin of a pure, noble-
hearted young girl. 'Ihat you have mur-
dered her mother who sunk broken-hearted
to the grave after she had heard of lii
daughter's shame !  You need not deny
this. sir, I at satisfied of its truth. And
now on one condition I will keep all I know
a secret from my thfily--from my father.
and from my brave, good brother, who will
soon be home to protect his sister. That
condition is that youh lave this house, never
put your foot in it again or speak to ine!"
Well, Miss Montrose, you arc kind in
your exactions. Do you know that this
house belongs to me
' Tiis house, my. home, my father's
home, sir?"
" Yes, your home only by my sufferance.
Your father mortgaged this house to me
over six months ago. The mortgage is now
overdue. Besides, I hold his notes for lent
money w1shich covers all your furniture and
more too, and if I chose I could turn you
houseless, penniless out in the world. Had
you not better relent and share this cottage
with in'."
"No sir ! No ! I would, if what you ray
is true, for I doubt your every word, I
would rather go and live in a garret and
as I hear poor girls do it this city, at mak-
ing shirts for eight cents a piece, live on
bread and water, work from early dawn
until the midnight hell had tolled, than to
reside in a palace with a wretch like
you! Go, sir, I scorn and defy you ! Do

S


'1

82                       THE WHEL oF
your worst, the world is wide, there are
sole c r atians in it who will not let vice
triumph over virtue.
Poor girl, how little she knew of chris-
tianity, as it exists in New York, of the
chr:tianity which requires wea/th to draw
forth it, piety. How little did she know oi
the jtiice which cannot see a crime while
it w.1 golden spYietacles, and can damn
innoeiice if it has not the gold to pay
its way.
Catlin cowered beneath the look of scorn
and in  nid left the romi-left the honse
.hib iuindeed was all too securely his own.
hI     i p ts out he met Mr. Montro e, who
greet 1 hint cuiordially and asked him to re-
turn.
1 cannot sir, to-daty, but I shall at an
early irriod 1" said Catlin.
""    1 seem! by your tone to he angry,
r.  ieti  -aid Motrose.
" No, sir. not angry, hut a little annoyed.
n rl1,   and ab1usd iv yIutr caught r,
wi homi yom know I have lovid so well, it is
bit natural that I shout lit fel annoyed.
You art' aware, too, that the mor gage on
that oI'use is unpaid and that I have a right
to to:  e5!t '
.s  too true, but I lave ieen unfortu-
nate aod----'
-- i i irhave not paid any one of those
nt mx yr duie. whichlh I hol against you,
th ttl amount beimg $7 0 - )
" t'=. it is so. lut yIn will give me time,
a li/{/ timei- and I can meiiet all and paiy
all !"
Mii Montrose, I have been disposed to
lavi nd aiid you lil the time, have proved
mV t -pYuition to do so by advancing money
whon'   ir you wanted it. But. sir, I ask, is
it nit ural that when insulted and wronged
by ils.- whom I have befriended. I should
not fi1 it. Sir, as your friend, after wooing
her fur nearly six muonthis. I otfered my
hand and fortuns to your daughter this
morning .
"Did she refuse you ?"
"Refused me, sir, and added insult to

ITE VICTiMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

83

MISFORTtrKE ; OR
the injury. Charged me with faults not
mine own, and told me to leave a house
from which you know I have a legal right
to drive every occupant."
Thu girl tnust be crazy--do not be
hasty, let me see and reason withiilr t. Give
me a little time and I um sorte all wil be
right. Some one must hatve been setting
her again-t you-I never had a aumit to thal
with you
" It is true, Sir, but I ceinot be tiileii
with. 1 do not love money, I have mor-
than I need, but I will not place it in Un-
grateful hands !"
W- are not, at least Mr. Catlin 1 am not
ungrateful. Do look over it and I will
right the timatter. The girl sha// listen to
-ason. You are my choice, Ithave leeti
p-roi ail haipy to think that soon you
wvoult be niy sin-in-law. Aii now rest as-
ured she // l le your wi i! D 1o not be
hastv---farewell for a little while, come again
to-morrow.'
'athii stood a mnoient iime  te door
atetni Mr. Montrose entered the tihouse.
iehn as he passed on down the street, he
muttered
-' My wife- ;her father says she shall be
my wif! I thmik he is a mile wide of the
mark, far as a wife I would not have her
but as a mistress. I will.  ees. I will humble
her proul spirit, she shall kneel nidl beg fa-
VOrs fomi the mam she professes to scorn,
and when she is humbled theii ill I spurn
her from my feet.   By the Eternud who
made me, iieith-r mtan nor woman ever
scorned ime or shall without getting a full
return"
CHAPTER XLVIII.
IT was night, the time the same as given
in our two last chapters.
Constance Morley was pacing to and fro in
a chamber which was elegantly furnished.
Ier form more thin than it was when last
we saw her, and her face pale as a lily, be-
tokened the suffering she had undergone.

Yet, she was beautiful still. Majestic ard I jIlost, fallen as I am, feel that my deepest,
queenly in mien and form, she was one of degradation is in my association with you!"
those who never can fade so far as to lose  " Woman, I will hear no more !  Leave
the semblance of beauty which nature has this rooth, aud forever ; or I will strike you
stamped upon them,-                     to the earth !" cried Dc Gerneau, rising.
She seemed to be angry, for her brow was  " Yes ''" she replied, and her eyes flashed
knit, her lips compressed and her dark eyes lIke those of an enraged tigress.  " Yes,
flashed as she paced to and fro across the you would strike a woman, but before a
carpet. She was not alone in the room.-  wan you would crouch like the hound
Seated in an easy chair, in his dressing which licks the hand that beats himt. You
gown and embroidered slippers, was Mr. wish me to leave your apartmeiits. 1 shall.
De Gerneau. lie seemed perfectly at his for I feel that the lowest brothel in this city
eni. for with careless nonchalance he is superior to these rooms when you are in
smoki-it a cigar, regardless of the presence them. You will strre me?  That wva
of thn lady.                          what you said-now do it ! I dare you to
She for a time, paced the floor in silence, do it--oward. I defy you!
seeming to try to control the passion in her  De Gernean, his face Ilushed as red as
breasttheiii turning to himi, she said :  fire with anger, his whole frame quiverimg
Albert Do Gerineau. do you reumher with excitement, snatched a cane from a
what you promised me, when six mouths corner of the room, and with it raised, ad-
ago I trusted, hinudly trusted you, ymildei vanced to-arls her.
my-elf, soul and body to you ? You do not  Quicker by far than I can write this line.
answer Ime !  ou are silent!  Does the was her miovemenit. She drew from the ho-
consii usniess of your having deceivd mlme, som of her dress a small ivory handled pis-
sal your tongue ? Speak, or are you afraid tot and levxlled its harr of glittin steel
to spek before a woman. When I met you at his lb-east. She did not speak--she
I thought that you was brave, yes. brave smiled, so calmly that it did not seem that
and /iwunrabil. Butt I have been deceived, she held death in her hand. IIe had never
you are, at lest, but a coward, and hotor t-mi he  miiile so before, and with the cane
never' kuew a spot in your breast where it uplifted in his hand lie paused mid trembled
comul lid a tmpetmaty urestug place, mxno  too.
to pmiak of a home. You won me to your   a For God's sake don'tshoot, Constance I"
arms, not by /oe, for I am  one of those he cried
who can love but nice. I becamite yoursOn  I told you you were a coward/" she
one cndtium, and that was that you should cried. " Yes, frown again, and nw ol'ir
reenge my rioigs. Iate, ium:sou, and to strike if you dare. I have expected that
not love. maie mute yours.  For six long, this hour would arrive, and I have prepared
huat--uul months I hav borne with your dis- for it, And now Sir, laydown that cane.
gusting earuses. because I knew you to be Do not hesitate, for if I am not obeyed in
base enough, and thought you was posses- all I demand, so sure as there is a Goo
sel of enough brute courage to kill him.- above us, I'll send a bullet through your
You pruommis, d to do it, but liar and coward black heart. Stop, Sir, do not move or
as you are you dared not do it. You frown ; turn, the finger of a wronged, desperate
why do you not curse a little. your lips are women is on the trigger of the pistol, it
more used to lies and blasphemy than to needs but a single touch to send you to
gentler or purer words.  Once you could eternity."
flatter and wheedle one who knew you not,  "Do not, Constance, dear Constance, do
into the idea that you were a gentleman, or not keep that weapon pointed towards me,
at least a man. Now I know you, and des- it might go ofi accidentally. I know you
pise you a&amp; a lying cowardly wretch.  Yea, are only jesting with me I"


"Sir, I jest no more! Obey my oinrrsu
now, or abide by the consequence. I am
the emmrndr now, you have been in
power long enough. Lay that cane down
-no delay, Sir, do it before I can count
birFee !  tOn'",tiro,  ."
The cowardly wretch dropped the cane to
ie toor, for hr dark rye glancedcalmand
elcar over the deadly barrel.
"Now, Sir. kieel! You have knelt to
rnw before, hIeel now-hesitate if you dare.
Ah. that is wreli-you are in the proper po-
sition of a slave. What shall I do with you
-you were about to strike me just now-
oughit I not to strike you, or to spurn you
like a deeg front my feet? I ought, but that
wouli bie libor badly bestowed. Let me
thiuk-Ah ! you have a face which I once
thoeht toi be p aly good looking, you
have a superb beard and moustacne,you
rite ryour-elf I  ibte beauty of your face-
nil yet t will humble that pride. Stop,
iri. tonot oler to rise or I will lay you so
i .   t teire wil be no resurrection forn
yri. I only wish to do as the camrel does to
r f 'tnrs, ar it ro's to a cruel inaster'-
re. r-y vto sit iin your face!
T       a irwo'r 'errrrompaied by the ac-
ee+t+viey  iicalie'  tel.  his  face  ilrrdid  as
1 d a, a  oid' 1lbiter--his eyes flashed
rib l I au i -r. tould leeks have blast-
veeb rrileul lhave sunrk brenrearth tire
i  hii",Ire'  r ut,  l h it  ie' n irer inot m ove.
Sl"   irpt her eiyerois, the pistol was at
ii re bu-vrrot ----onl touch of her linger rnd I

he k wow ht= would dci i-antd he did not pus-  a .       .   .    ..
i the  cor e  to ru en dih an d  o e   Alas, if  lie  claims  it, it  is  his, and  we
rtn;  =rerra!a'' inomreet uleanthi, nod Iore  hm'cst  ad
are homelesss' samd the father. " Hlittie.
th imelitnity. She smniled in bitter scornae               h ~th    . "    .ttie
r  why have you such abitterprjudice agnumst
'{ n~il                              hima? He is genteel, good looking. w ell ed-
" Nw,; Sir, yori a moment ago wished me                              ',cted, andlsomnewhiat nieorlplichierl I'
to leav'' thire naplartumenits. I arm going to
do so; and I 'n going to do what you dare  "Yes, father, accomplished in villainy.
iut doVenge my own wrongs ; and be- What do you think of a man who would ruin
Sare , Sir. how you interfere Mvith any of my a father and force him to suicide, and then
plains. I am now dsp'erats, fearless of all with deliberate and fiendish malignity, by
conuserinees. reckless of alldanger, ready a mock marriage, ruin his poor girl?"
tar murder'! Y's to m'urm:n '!         " What do you mean, child, what do yon
She turned awiy and left the room. Not mean ?"
tnntil she had gouu did that recreanit thing  "JJust what I say father. He has done
arise fron his kneeling osture. When he what I have spoken, And I believe that t

I

a

did. he looked around as if he feared she
would return.
"That woman is the devil !" he muttered.
"I believe she would as soon rnur'der me as
not ! She is a splendid woman, though, arid
I'm almost sorry I didn't shoot Catlin to
please her, but it was too great a risk. Cat-
lin is a splendid shot-I've an aversion to
have a bullet exploration made into the un-
known regions of my corporeal person.
W(ell, let her go, there's other flowvers in the
field-but I wouldn't like to stand in-Cat-
lin's shoes when she sets an eye upon him" r
CHAPTER XLIX.
AETRt Mr. Montrose parted with Catlin at
his door, he entered his mortgaged house.
A frown was on his brow, and it darkened
as his lovely daughter sprung forward with
her accustomed look and tone of madness to
meet him  with a kiss. Ie repulsed her
coldly.
SFathjr, dear father, what is the matter
What have I done to deserve this ?" she
saidl.
IIettie, I have just left Mr. Catlin #' he
replied.
aYes. father, and he has just lift here, by
my command. Tii is an insedent viiiian,heehas
annoyed mlre with his disgutstiri  attentions
to long; and nov, to crown nil, and to try
to force me to endure his prf'ece. he tells
me chat this house is his!"

TFlEWIlEET OP MISFORtTUNE; OR,

gain me as another victim to his lusts, he
has been entrapping you in his snares, per-
haps ruining you !"
"No, no child-Catlin has ever been a
good friend to mae.  His purse has ever
been open to mue
"l id he not require security, father, for
every cent he loaned ?"
" Yes, for we were strangers when I was
deeply involved and I had to borrow from
some source-I could not expect a favor
without security. I mortgaged this house
and its furniture to him. Since then he has
loaned me money whenever I have asked it,
on my indivivual note, without asking an
endorsemrnt! I owe him a great deal. I
am at lhis mercy if he is a villain ; but
Ilettie, I think you are mistaken in him.
lie appears to love you !"
Love me, father ? Yes, he does love
me ! He loves rme as the wolf loves the
lamb!   Father. how have you-spent the
money you have got from hnlim ?l,
"IHett '. T an asuanied to tell you, but 1
have risked all arid lost all on the desper-
rte, but. someties (Sfortunate game of buy-
ing lottery tickets. I hoped to win back
all that I had lost, but misfortune has met
oe at every turn. I have spent every dol-
lar that I Could raise, arind now I stand by
our side, my sweet child, under a roof not
my own, without a dollar in the world. I
hart hoped, believing him to be a gentle-
man ard man of honor, who possessed am-
pl riearis anrd a kind heart, he would be-
come your husband and relieve me from my
present ineutubranees. But if he indeed is
a villain, though 1 should be turned into
the street penniless in my old age, I would
riot sacrifice you my child. I have been
wrong, imprudent, and wicked, and you
may curse me-"
"Curse you, father? oh NEVER I I know
that you would not sacrifice me, your pet
child for gold, or intentionally render me
unhappy. Do not blame yourself, or de-
spond. I am young and strong and I can
work. I can draw, teach music, sew, do
many things. We will not feel poor, even
if we have to leave our home. I can earn

TUE VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.

SI

a support for us all and dear brother will
soon be home to aid us !"
"Oh Hettie, I would not have your
brother know all, I would not have him see
you at work for your support ; see us steep-
ed in poverty. lie would despise his grey-
haired father who had squandered all that
we possessed. I would rather meet death
than him, now. Ilettie, if you have cast
off Catlin and mortally offended him, we
are ruined! Oh cannot you temporise with
him at. least until your brother returns to
his post. Let hint think you will relent
bye and bye. Oh do this for your father's
sake. I will not ask you-to wed him. but
temporise with him or I shahl go crazy, and
perhaps in my wildness bury my shame in
a suicides grave !"
Dear Father, do not talk thus. Do
not ! There are tears on your cheek. Oh
fat her let mire kiss them of-I will do any-
thing but marrying ha! That I cannot
do !"
" Bless you my sweet child. rlees you.
Oh now keenly I feel the wrong I have
done you and all my faituiy. But if a little
time can be gained I may save soniething-
I have friends who, it' they do not know
how nearly I am ruined, may help rme, and
fortune may change. If modern friends
know that a man is really ruined they will
not do anything for him ; if he does not need
their services they are proffered without
stint. Oh how well I know this heartless
world ! Now iettie, let me go and apolo-
gise to Catlin ; you temporise with him for
a while, let him think that in time he can
conquer your prejudice and gain your hansl,
and I may yet recover from this trouble, at
least your brother will not have the morti-
fication of seeing-us turned out of doors 1"
"Apologise to him, my father? Oh has
it come to this, that you who are so proud
and noble must condescend to bow to a vile
wretch like him!. Oh, father it is indeed
hard ! I do not know how I can speak to
him without a shudder ! But for your sake
I will try!"
"Bless you my child. Do not let your
mother dream of this matter. God may yet


86                       THE WHEEL OP MsFORTUNE; o$
hlip us afely out of it. Let us go to the follow you. I have friends, powerful ones
tt ilg room:"                           -those who will obey me in every wish
Afttr Cttlin left Mr. Moptrose, he hurried  She turned and rapidly walked up Broad-
d vni h.'    reet toward Broaiway. On way. Catlin's first ilnipulk  was to follow
turning tl corner hte nt a I ely who was hr. but after a momnt's heitation he pur-
eL.,ielv h iX1 1d 1and veiled, lut whose tall sud hisllS original course, muttering as ho
ai'1 el   igur}'  e'd familiar to him. went:
Ifs lov"ver wa iii no inood to observe  '' That woman must he got out of the
01 1, l-t then ael would havt'e pas-tdt on, j way. She has mire of the devil in her na-
it at a   tiil beckon of thea el'y hahnd, tore  than I dreamed she had! l r friends
givn llt hi liti -rid to speak to him, lie are powerful she says. I nut have lie'
It1t11-etl Itracked an tifind out who they are.                            She
S it can I do for you lady, or whom  says she knows Imy crime and adociatesbut
h     tii I hoimrl '1(Iof aldresstmg Y'he asked, that is a mere boast 1 gut's. That woman
1011s114110 It'I1itti'lly.              (anCli'ouse, is th  only one oitsid' w ho
lily -tis l rait'd her veil, andi he could betrty tt-she known ,- too imch, I
behbtli   Ithe yi tatr outof(f Cons tacite Mt' wish sho was dead!"
lev  SbI' lIlot o pak. but her t'i setit-
'it  r   e  b' I   I  r Lt'v ul.  F Jr a  moitii t
fie  di   rn 1 tt   t   the 'gromntlitas ilnl''
t    I A I  o'i  Ii' ft=' Jllenclaitre's. Then    CIHAPT ER L.
Sy. IiV   wtid.1 1  womant i   ?itt  If  it  is  New  reader  we  will  follow  Constance
:!   11, 1 'l    ureaindlint's iti(troubll tmil M1Irl'y, and si stif we cant lice th' ii'se-
c 'ret of her loastl pfw r, tun out uho are
''nt-  'tlin, I  dI t  wa nt your mo-(tlt' frititml shspi'  oke of.
, 1  k  i 11.' ,fiii  em'I til Ater she lift ('it lini. iwith  rapid steps sthe
l:'ritatk. N yi do not   tart, through I ptrOceedited up liroadlway, turning once or
t 'at.1  lagy }'o on lth tpot, I nould not l  5 cf' to Sete if sheis  fltlowed t. averal
it now. 1 iit a v dtoit'endure a portinhnbloctks above where 'she hadl parted fromt
Sl  -il  t'y I h i'  'it.  You shall yet rot hltit, shl' turltdtl  to tlt'  left and  altrit' walk'-
ad111111t iun n. 1 !OPs 1wiII 1111 your I 'cit''-s ing p tilt tlti'street soie' two or thrte1)' blocks,
l  urtil.'  , t ma l  cr lit"S.  It  is  I  whot1 paused  lbefotre  a  plrge' mn sion, lbuilt  in
*  +f y"  v it , I  Ib .t' Maunttrok" it is  nomittetrasty  ,  ht h isof mar l nd f'ret' s it' .  Its
btut i   . I                     I [toll  rt oils, save her  siz', a'rchitt ur , aind  tie' gioill  uit'Ottm d  it
ti I 1r1 ia .i''                      ocpyiig at least one-fnt'ih of the entire
. 'ii .,curs' ia ,youIt hll stl'er for  lick, showed it to bei the tbh' of wealth.
Wli   hI 'Lt it'pr n n from erus hling you  She paused a momeitnt at thet'gtetwayv,
sah   -     Hon . uI' 1' t '''looked at the holuso anid shudderedd. ' It
,.''lh  co,'11d1i  ,I ti  !' slit'  sail, anti  he  is fearful,'" sil' said- '' it is a horrible thing
rttd hachaick  p  at.S the gilt trying barrel to sell one's sell for gold, but I muat he
of a pistol mt hii eye andi he heard the mioiey to gain my revenge-yes. it must
click of I N lck.                       he done, anti wheti I have accomplished all.
1h liughed as she saw his momentary I can die, die as my fattlier did !''
in tior.                                  She passed on to tie door and rung the
"You tn'ti are all cowards!" she said. bell. A livened servant appeared.
N oxS Mr. ttatlin, youartt a'rilnetd, youl may  " I yourmin'aster at hlton ?'' sthe askcd,
lieiiember. be on your guairdl as much  "lie is. Madanm, in his library I"
aever C. do your worst or your best to avoid " Bear this card to him!"
meo, hut my venigeanuce, slow but sure, wvilli I il~il, Madam, be pleased to walk into

I

THE VICTIIS'OF LCTTER
the drawing room. I will return in a mo-
ment I"
Now reader for a new character in our
book, one however that is tiue, the picture
of a millionaire banker, whom you can
sometimes see rolling down Wall street in
his elegant carriage. here is his portrait.
Seated in a large easy chair, cushioned
and backed with velvet, his feet pilloved on
an ottoman, you will observe a man atleast
sixty years of age, though by his foppish
dress he attempts to appear younger.
His face was piple by the use of wines
and liquors, his frame swelled, bloated and
gouty from over-living. Ile wore a wig to
conceal his baldness and Ballard's hair dye
had been called into requisition to dye his
eyebriows and whiskers. his redldeiled eyes,
thick lips. and sensual expression betoken-
ed his disposition. There he sat, robed in
a stuffed and quilted morning gown of flow-
ered satin, his gouty feet slippered in vel-
vet, the personification of a wealthy old
roue whose race of pleasure had become a
painful tottering wreck toward the grave.
The servant wlhoi we saw below, enter-
ed and with a low obeisance handed his
master the card Constance had sent up.
A deeper flush caine over the red face of
the millionaire as ie read the name-a
chuckle gurgled out from his thick lips !
"By the jolly God of Love-~it's her-I
thought she'd accept my last offer, she's I
a magnificent woman !"  Higgins, how do
I look to-day, ei?"
"Fine, sir, uncommonly fine!"
"'Well, send my valet to me, instantly,
sprinkle Boudoir No. three--number tlree,
remember, with the essence of violets, a few
drops of otto of roses, anl a little of Lubin's
odorcicle-let in just light enough to make
the statues look soft and life-like, afte'
that is done conduct the lady to it, and say
I will be there inu a few moments. Set the
new musical contrivance in the rear room
to work, and start the fountain of flowers!
IMurry up my valet, I must prepare to make
a favorable impression, for she is a magifi-
cent creature !"
The servant bowed and retired. In a mo-

Y AND POLICY DEALERS.                 87
meant another appeared, a sleek, dignified
little Frenchimn.
" Perot, help me to my dressing room.
You must use all your skill to dress me
splendidly as soon as possible-you must
make me look killingly handsome !''
" Oui, Messieur !" replied the valet.  It
shall be done tout suite, et toute parfai-
ment. I shall make you look no more zan
thirty-five years, by my honuarel"
lWith evident pain, assisted by the valet,
the millionaire hobbled from the room.
And now I am about to do what for the
world I would not, were a lady in the case,
enter a dressing room. I did, once, by the
foolish miisiireetion of a stupid servant, get
into a lady's dressing roots, but my stay
was brik', I can tell you-I knew in an in-
stait that I was in the wrong box. Ih/iear'd
a faint sereafn and sew-xoINa! I left
quicker than a rocket from a little boy's
hand on a Fourth of July night.
The dressing room we are about to visit
is that of our millionaire. Look at it. See
the cosmetics which load yonder table ;
paints, white, red and black-here a wig,
there a false set of teeth ; here pads for the
legs, there pals to fill out the chest--back
and front braces. supporters, &amp;c. All kids
of pomades, complexion renovators. Mir-
rors surround the room. A lounge beside
every bath. And yet how miserablelhe mil-
lionaire who can command all these things,
when compared with one of our penniless
boys who can earn but a scanty living,whose
cheeks are made rosy by exercise, but who
with strong limbs, free from diseases, can
leap into the flashing lake or river, and
there in the God-given bath refresh himself
after the hour of labor is over.
Yes, see that old libertine hobble in on
his gouty legs and between a grunt and a
groan mutter :
D-n this gout, it will be the death of
me yet. Perot, prepare me a Regenerva-
ting bath; a la Ciprica, quick !"
"ui Messieur, zat Messieur Ciprico is
un bon gentilhoume, he 's great benefactor
to ze peoples to invent zat bath !"
"fHurry, and disrobe me !"


88                       THE WHEEL OF MISFOItTUNE ; OR
" Oui Messieur, I shall be quick as no softly in through curtains of pink, was sc
time !"                                 disposed as to give each figure the appear-
Reader, as we are modest it is time we ance of life. A rich, almost overpowering
left.                                  fragrance seemed to be borne by invisible
Constance remained several minutes in wings fanningly through the room, such a
the drawing-room before the sorb ant return- fragrance as comes from the spicy flower-
ed. But her ine nsas occupied in regard- groves of the south when evening winds
ing the magnifieent paintings which adorn- cool the brows of tropic lovers. Low cou-
ed the walls, paintings by the most famous ches, wrought curiously of silk and satin,
artists of ancient and modern days. When so as to resemble beds of roses and other
the servant caine in he made a low obeis- flowers, were scattered here and there.
anoe and said :                           Constance looked in vain for the source
"Madame, my master is engaged for a whence the music so sweet and heavenly,
few moments on important business, he emanated. A dreamy feeling came over
begs that you will permit me to conduct her, and astonished, she sunk upon an ot-
you to a more pleasant sitting room where toman near the fountain of flowers. When
he will join you in a few moments 1'    she had first seen the apartments of Catlin,
Constance follow ed the servant who con- she had thought them rich and elegant be-
ducted her to the  boudoir No. 3."      yond comparison ; thought them  the ne-
As she entered the rout, she paused in p/us ultra of elegance, richness and luxu-
utter astonishment at the scene befo re her ry.  liut in comparison with this. they

The low, swet sound of fairry-like music
and the gentle pl.shing of falling waters
fell oil her ear.  She adi anced into the
root, w hich seemed to b  peopled with
beautiful creations of life.  She thought
she was in a fairy laud, surrounded by
nymphs and goddesses. Stiill :urthir she
advanced, she saw a fountain nV hieh threw
flowers up amid the ever aseenling and des-
cending mias of silrery spray. Over it, as
if stooping to puck one of the flowers from
its nest of diamonds, bent the form of a
very Veanu, and tie light falling through
rose- mued curtains, fhll so soft and flesh-
like upon it, that the statue seeed to live.
The wails of time lofty room were hung ii
perpenliulan fol-d. wit satim of deleate
pink. dli rae and blue, the blended hues
produning a kind of dreamv rainbow-light.

r        _  ,  -.-
seemed no more than a beggar's hovel. In
this lofty apartment the symmetry of the
curtained walls was tnot destroyed by las-
civious pictures, and the hues so delicately
blended by the dropping curtain folds bro-
ke bmy them. The Statues, from the hands
of eminent artists, were, it is true voluptu-
ous, such as would excite maddening pas-
sions In the breast of a man ; but to a wo-
man they seemed more chaste, to her more
especially so, for she wias alone, even like
a Dliana with her Nympths bathing around
her.
The music still was heard, she breathed
the rich fragranrce of the air and almost
sunk into slumber, forgetting where she
was. But the voice of the millionaire
aroused her, He stood by her side
" Beautiful lady-you have came at last."

Statues acre scattered all around- lere he said. " Have I at last, after such long
a Cupid and a syche-thcre an Lee gazing entreaty, so many brilliant offers, won you
upon the fatal apple from the forbidden away fromt the happy possessor of so many
tree-here an angel just poiing its wings peerless charms?  Will you become the
for a flight-there a styr just seizing a queen of my palace-the fairy angel to prs-
lovely nyminpth of l)ian's m.tehles train, side over my destiny ?"
while in the distance bending her bow, could  " A truce to compliments, sir,'' she said,
be seen tle bright goddess herself, about to assuming a sweet smile, and not withdraw-
stp his proceedings by sealing an arrow ling her small, white hand, which he had
through his heart. And the light, coming seized between his huge paws, "I have re-

t
e
G-
G     -
f.
.

THI VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLTOY DEALERS,

80

ceived your last note, and if you are will- vied to produce some excelling picture to
ing to support me in my extravagance, for out-rival rivalry . The first named I will
I am  very extravagant, I will on   cer- show you to-day, for there we will dine ;-
twin coalitions consent to remain here the next you will see when the week has
in  your magnificent mansion., I have expired !"
left DeGerneau, and FoREvER t A   mean,    "What magnificence ! This must have
soulless wretch, devoid of horor, and prii- cost you a fortune I"
ciple, I despise myself for ever h sving coun- " Oh no, not much, only eight or nine
tenanced him!:"                          hundred thousand   lollars!" replied the
"Oh, I am so glad to hear you say so!" millinaire, carelesly.*  "You have not
cried the old voluptuary, seating himself seen all yet, my fair queen. Go to yonder
inside her.  " You mentioned conditions window and look into the covered court-
just now, my queen of houri's, what are yard of the house, and tell me what you
they ?"                                  seeI1"
"That I can have one week of time and    She obeyed, and as she drew aside the
ten thousand dollars placed at my disposal. window curtain, she exclaimed with all the
I have a scheme of vengeance to work on eagerness of a pleased child
this base I)eGerneau, which will occupy     ' Oh, how beautiful! how beautiful"
that time-then I at yours !"              " What do you see ?"
Ten twenty'thousand dollars, are at     " Oh, such a lovely garden, even at this
your couiand, hut the time-why delay season teeming with fruits and flowers;
fair lady, when all here is at your com- fountains sending showers of silver high up
mand, to take possession of apartments in the air, and those beautiful women walk-
which 110 queen can rival ?"             ing about-who are they ?"
'- Because, my dear friend (oh how sweet-  " Your servants, lady-you  are queen
ly she stiled upon him as she emphasized here !" said the old voluptuary, gazing
the leer) I wish to test your love anil sat- gloatingly upon her tall and elegant form,
isfy a whim of mute, If you love me so     it is now time that we glanced at him, and
much as you protest, you will let me have see if Perot, his French valet, has any skill
my own way !'                            in making up a man. Don't laugh at the
" You shall my angel, you shall ?" cried words, "making up a mzan," fair reader,
the old li bertine, gluing kiss after kiss from  but know that more than half the dandified
his libidinous lips, upon her hand, as if he things you meet in Broadway are made up.
would eat it up. " The money, a coach of Do you see that full breasted gentleman
your own, and what servants you require there with the white kid' gloves, tinged a
are at your command. And now tell me little with pink, who sports and twirls that
what you think of this little boudoir ?"  gold headed rattan, and with a jet black
beard and moustache, tries to look noble
It is a paradise, a very heaven !" she and manly to the ladies, and fierce and
plli d.                                  iaughty to the men he meets?
"With you as its divinity it will be !"-  Would you like to know who he is? Well
h: said.   But I have two others, one is he is a gambler, who was brought up to the
so like a garden that though all is artificial, tailor's trade but found gambling more to
you are temnpted to pluck the fruit and his taste and profit. lie has been " on the
flowers from the trees and bending stems ; town" over twenty yeaas, and disease and
lIrds, also artificial, sing to you, and run-
ning waters gurgling over mossy stones,   * The reader may deem this an extravagant exaggera.
lull you to sleep. And I have yet another lion, bu it i not. I andraving a picture from lire, and
the place I dccribe is not five blocks from Broadway, and
which I call the Palace of Love, where the not ten from Union S inure. It and Itrfurniture cost its
art and skill of every painter of fame has owner little less that $1,00,O000.

x


90l                    THEt  WHEEL OP MISFOITUNEi; OR,
disipation have left their marks upon him.  "Yes, the one I played parson for!\What
Now we wil st how he is made up. In of her ?has she conutitted suicide or any
form  he is reu//i/ thin, ci ooked, deformued other romantic folly ?''
and worn out. 1et how well he looks.     " No, I wish to God she had : Instead off
11 brt ijS padldd with about six pounds  beimg rined, she is at the top of the heap.
cif cotton,  l  uhoIiiskers, noustach and hair She has foiled me in one plan, she knows
lb e1E .u bs  elk5 are painted, his our secrets, and we are in danger. She has
t  it  atie pencilled, the very cah es of poe erful friends, and I do not know who
Ills I  arc poled. atnt his swelling hips thy are. This  mrning-, oniy a few non-
f' it  d it Li- ie bustlis.  I11s whiti ate ago, she rode dowi Broadwayi i m
iI r t t  by Ga tle. TThe glitt ting splenudidt carriage with li cried du iv er and
1  m     s ihn tblosoun is a splteoti inmita- toleiiin. andh as she p -eh-eiled xi on a
In ,u to  m l,uy jinut uci a gold-headed  a smile as only can be horn fromintllen,.
t"- Ir    htot iers indt a half from  Our iimte. I know not why , but it  fr it t1, au11
-te,' it   critics, under the Girard lius', she is the first human being  I (CI r hatred''
i htn you see a "/mm/osome mtn slowly  "'That is strange. I thought you didn t
'   na1'1 i1 1 rI Ii adayiv,  think  of  plaste-  feat  the  devil 1''
iutteltam, cotton,f tahe teeth, padding  " I do not, he is e too mich my friend to
el hairitx E-                         cau-e far--but she is wx osC than the
flit wI 11 try another chapter. I am sick devil!'
j this sekly -ul et.                     'nther knock was heard at the door.
At the suimnonts, the door opened tnt Mr.
Montrose entered.
CLlAPT ls LI.               Bowing with his usual studied politenes.
hLe said:

Axt i rii:t day in our histtory. Catlin sat
hi ronti. tale ait  perturbid, more an-
ou t than w  hiat- vet -een! ihiimi. Iilital
.L Itu itnhl hitit i bitt was not Writing.
Iown at tei rowt ptutn his brow, and ntov
ii theni a mttitte curse, indicated that
- 1   a- \ e\tnthing wrong in the wind,
it I u- n iexh did not suit himt.
A nik h at bte loor cianted ii tier to
 Iiu mi ttI h- Stua tai  t huti flet, i ttuiiung
i    t Jiarih thu- iidtr as it hi- xp+cted
enemy.   ilcoviering his comtpostt'e,
int- i !" 'Ihe door opened, and Mr
ii  I  t  "r-uti
-i. (ait mu ,umy tty, hiw guies it ?''
'"I1)   ii  it
"\ hy-, wxuitt's th t et ur?  You look as
our as a gui-i  crab apple, and speak as
:roif ai a boat-wain short of grog ?'

Gool morning Mr. Catlin. I hope I do
not interrupt you in your private busi-
ness!"
" Not at all. Sir ; I am not engaged. Let
me introdtee you to my friend Mr. Grab!''
" Mr. Grab, I am your moist humble ser-
vant : a tine morning Sir!",
Very. Sir !'' replied Grab, and noticing
by a 4igu from C atlin that the latter wished
to he alone with his visitor, he added : " I
rgiret that I am not aibe at pres-nt from
lack of time to improve our acquituntanco;
sliall be happy at another time ; I have an
important engagement wits jut g oitig out
as you came inu--guod morning, Sir ; good
ttoriitng, Catlitn
" Good morning !" responded the gentle-
men, anti he xaxt gone.
A very tine ian is Mr. Grab; highly
rep-ctitle and very wealthy !" said Catlin

" Mat ir menough-I't uaatnoycd-I wish after Uralsxvent out.
i tr wa'it a wotum in the w orld. You  "'IIe appears to be a fine man, very po-
nimiw Constance Morley, the girl I ruined lite ! replied Montrose.
aC-it iotT -                          "Yes, he haa traveled much t"

'fiE VW1'IM5 OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEAL1Rt&amp;

!1

"Well, Mr. Cathip, I called to see you in  "All will go right, my friend," he re-
regard to that difficulty last evening. I plied, "rest assured of that. My son, Lieu-
have enquired into it, and my daughter feels tenant Richard Montrose, will soon return
that she acted hastily. The truth is that from service, and he has ample means to
somec one has leen writing her anonymous relieve me from  embarassmeut, I am coni-
letters about a Miss Morley. or Moreland, or dent 1"
some  such  name, and   endeavoring  to   " Ah, how soon does he return ?"
set her againsyou. I told her that it was  " We expect him within a week, he may
unjust to you, ond very wrong for her t 'be delayed longer, but I think not.  In
form  an OPimwn from the statements of truth he may arrive sooner, for it is a long
those a ho needed an anonymous signature time since he has seen us, and love, family
to cloak their imlfornation ; that teuli ever love lends wings to the traveler !"
came out boldly and without disguise. She  c I sha-lbe most happy to make his a
ackntowlh idi that site was hasty, andi til-  .  ,ttttu'  .'si Gaht.
c- u; untance . satid Gathnr..
though she is not prepared to accept your  Yet his looks belied his words.  lie die
otter at present, until she knows you better, not wish at that particular juncture to
-t hopes you will not discontinue your vis-have any fire-eating military brother itter-
its."fere with his plans for the ruin of a pur
Really. Mr. Montrose, you know how and lovely sister.
warm an interest and how high a respect I    .i  .you xill be sure to cote tp am
have ever entertained for yourself and fhm- see  this evening ?"' saicl Mr. Montrose,
ily ; but the repulse of Miss Iettie last eve-  1 shall try to (10so"replied C -tlin.
ning was so bitter, so uncalled for, that I  ,'hanik you, we shall expect you. Good
cannot see how in justice to myself 1 can mo-rtitg r'
renemytvisits."Alter Montrose left, Catlin seemed bur-
'But Mr. Catlin, my dear friend, remem- ried in thought for a few moments. He sat
her that she is an experienced, warm-heart- s  r a time, then spoke or rather mut
ed, imiulive girl. She spoke inhaste, and tx  t  if-
in her hours of reflection regrets and recalls  "I must hurry up matters-he must be
ter woris. Do forget them!"             mine before he comes, by fair means or
" Since you desire it, I will try to do foul. But I need not hope to gain her by
so !"                                   fair means, I must abduct her, and without
" And you will visit us again? Comei, her father having any suspicionsthat 1 ame
take tea with us this evening!"         concerned in the abduction. Have her I
If I itaminot otherwise particularly en- will, for she has spurned nmid slighted me.
gaged, I will! ~and 1 have sworn to humble her patrician
" And our little money matters ; I willar- pride !"
ratsge them very shortly ! I hope you are  And leaving bun to study out another
not i a hurry !"                        plan of villany, we will open the next
"Not eractl, but Mr. Montrose I have chapter in our drama.
entered imto some very heavy speculations  Before doing so reader, let me ask you
lately, and I do not know how suddenly I a question. Are you not glad that after a
may be called upon to raise a large amount couple of scenes more we will ring (down
of funds. But so long as all goes right, I the curtain? I am, for like you I'm get-
do not think I shall be forced to trouble ting sleepy
you!
Catlin emphasized his last words strongly
and Montrose understood him. ie felt how
mitch he was in the villians power, and he  AHPTRoII
feared him.                               A BURGLERS CRs-was you ever in one

A

JFr :
{i
,
f
s
_.
t
y

I
I


THE wuWnra 0MiRTXE ; olt,

reatler? No! Why, you haven't seen half
the sights in New York yet, for there is a
dozen of them, besides full a hundred "fen-'
ces,'' or places for depositing stolen goods.
Some of these are kept under the sign of
pawn-blroik rs shops, others as exchange of-
ices, others as junk--hops, c. But there
is on ci, the resort of the heavier clasI
of burgh rs and felons, titn who cotmitt o
eightt cru  s, anl whit thy do a jib, "they
do it up,' as Captaint Tobin ays. As it  s
tnder pIt lie iaurveillanc nIoW, I cannot par-
patrtica bt ly (iheribe its location at tho
titime.  Suttice  it then, to ay, that at a very
eozy and pleasaut dritihing saloon, in a
street u beh Coses Broadl way, and not far
iroi the great thoroughlre, you may al-
iot ai ay iyfind a it of quit, gentleman-
lv l+oki wtie. t  tiimo itly E lehmei,  Itho
di ink thir a    lit'   thie piirr-, and don't
rCti i dtitituc  of ani tiuig else.  Yet
t"'  li-i '" eri  at  that  iou  all  si m  to
knowt i ha ot her. Once it a u bile a rough,
{ dl ilooki tng tintni dr+p 'in, he i known
I by n+;t i: thothers, au I a word or two
imtay beichanged, but he drinks his toug
of ale uni vani-hts.  lue house is very
till the blindly are ala ai s elu-ed in front.
There at a feew small toots back for very
private p rties. behind a small bar a neat
and bao-ntote woman stands, ready to tii
t brining mittngs of ale as they are cal-
l for. She dresses rather coquettishly in
half mttuing, to indicate that she is a
widow, probably.  Yet site is quiet and
eahn, thigh a lurking devil seems to be
glaiitn.im the beautiful eyes which are
taledll long, lark eye-laihes.  A boy
neatly dr-sed. stands out-ide of the bar
t ady to ctrry the beverages to her custom-
Thuer- is nothing to indicate that desper-
ate, or criminal characters resort here, is
there reader ?Well, go on, by and by
" we sh.dl See what we shall si-,''
The next door to the entrance of this
shady retreat, is but a private entrance to
the same building- Upon a silver plate is
neatly engraved a name, but it is not the
real name of either the owner or the occu-

pant. We will call the name Delorme for
the nonce. Before this door a carriage
stops-the driver and footman are liveried.
The carriage door is opened, a lady close-
ly veiled descends and though it is the
dusk of evening, we tteed not for a moment
hesitate, from her form and hr graceful
carriage. to say who it is, for Constance
Morby cannot disguise herself from one
w ho has -eei her once.
The footmtan by her diretion, rung the
door bell.  After a momut's deilty the
door was opened, and by the fair widow
whom we have seen behind the little bar.
Madamtn  Delorme, I believe?' said (on-
stance, entering.
" That is my tane, Molam, but I know
not whotm I have the honor to receive, or
the occasion of this visit I",
" The pasword I give," 'whispered Cn-
staei, "is *'contraband ;'' mum' the coui-
iIrsigin, lead me to a private room and you
shall know why I have come.'
Tthel password aid countersign are cor-
riet, bit er- we go in pleaie order your
carriage to proceed up to Broadway or
around the corner to wait for you, it might
create suspicion here!"
" True, l will give my orders !"
The marriage moved away, and the two
kemals etered a parlor whih was sepera-
ted from the bar we have spoken of only by
a door. After they got in, and Constance
took a seat profferretl by the widow, she
raised her veil.
The latter looked as if she had expected
to recognize an old acquaintance. But she
was evidently disappointed.
lilt) not know you !' she said. ".how
did you become acquainted with our pass.-
word ?"
That I cannot reveal at present. You
do not know me, but you do know one Tul-
/ius Coffin?
The widow started as if an adder had
stung her to the heart. First her face was
pale as snow, then red as fire.
"Know    him--um'?" she cried-"yes,
well do I know the cursed villain who he'
trayed my poor husband and caused him to

die in a felons cell where even I could not
go to console him in his dying hour I If you
are a friend of his, go, go from beneath my
roof before I curse you as I have done
him!"
"Be calm Madame Delorme, I am not his
friend, rather am I his deadliest foe. In me
you behold one of his last victims. I have
come here to seek aid to ruin and destroy
him. I could kill him, but that will be no
vengeance to me; I want him to die as your
husband died-in a prison cell. I want to
see him live as long as life and niserq meatn
te same thing! You need not doubt me, I
an a woman--women never deceive each
other except when influenced by envy or
jealousy. No one loves me, I love no one--
you cannot, must not doubt me !"
"I do not Madam ; by what name may I
address you ?"
Call me Constance, nothing else I"
"I will: how can I serve you?"
"You have a house which is used -s a ren.
dezvous by a class of bold and reckless men,
who thinking that the world owes them a
living, (1o not scruple to take it 1"
" How did you find it out?"
"Because I accidentally heard a conver-
sation which occurred between Catlin and
one of your visitors, a man who himself
seems to dislike  Catlin while he fears
himl "
Do you know his name'
"I do not. He is a slender, dark-com-
lrlexioned man, with a large scar on his brow
,"tending down upon his right cheek."
"Ah-I think I know this man. Come
to the little wicket in the door here, and see
if you can recognize hint among the men
who are setting in onder room. You need
not fear, they cannot see us here I"
Constance did as she was desired, looking
through a narrow aperture made by a slide
in the door.
"Yes, he is there' is the man nearest
the window, who is emoking a cigar and
reading a newspaper 1" she said.
"I thought as much. That Lattson is a
deep villain, but I think Catlin has got
ahead of him about the proceeds of some

TgE WHEEL Off' I f8FOHTp'HE QR,

haul. I heard him swear vengeance my-
self!"
"Can we trust him?"
"Yes, if he has a motive. He can be in-
flenced by money, or by a desire for re-
venge !"
"I have money, plenty of it, and will
not spare it. Can you call hint in, that I
may have an interview with him?"
"Yes, if you desire it, but do not trust
him too far, Lattson, is like all other vil-
lains, used to crime, liable to  e used by
the highest bidder f''
"I will bid as high as any one-bring
him in1"
In a few moments the man who combined
in himself the qualities of burglar, forger,
and counterfeiter, entered the aparttett.
He looked at Constance distrustfully. for
he knew at a glance that she was a lady,
and not one d~a class with whom he had
been used to associate. She observed his
embarrassment and at once proceeded to
remove it.
You need not fear me, Mr. Lattson,"
she said, "I have cotie to get you to do
me a favor, and ant willing to reward you
for it !"
Any thing in reason, Madame!  What
do you want done ?"
" You know   a fellow named Tullius
Catlin ?"
"D-n him, yes Madame!        Forgive
me for swearing, but he is a bloody thief,
without honor !"
You know him to be a thief?"
"Y Yes, Madam, and a receiver too-that's
worse, forlhe hasn't the courage to crack a
crib on his own hook !"
"Can you prove it so that I can get him
into States Prison, if I pay you well ?''
"Why you see Ma'am, this peaching is
rather aoainst my principle, besides if I did,
I mignt get myself into trouble, for since
you know my name so will you probably
know that I'm on a lay once in a while
that the law don't exactly countenance.
I'd rather split his wizzen though than eat.
He has had some of my best friends ' nt

,,
.5

:1

't
x  -


f
f
f
'.{

so mrauy of these unmianly puppies that iln- number of his residence, I will so ciiastie
suit us lone women!" cried the widow. him that he never will forget me!"
" Yes, the very man is in the back room.   "His number is at -- Broadway. He has

TUB VICTIMS OF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS,

94                       THE WHEEL OF
up' and I know he'll get me up if ever he
c an I"
If you'll procure me proof to convict
him so that I can get him imprisoned for
ten or fifteen years, ill give you ten thou-
sand dollars. five thousand the day he is
arrested ; live thousand more when he is
convicted, and have powerful friends to aid
you if you get in trouble !"'
By thuntr, that's ta/, Ma'atn  For-
ive me for roughness, for I aimt used to
fade~ company. but if you ll do what you
say, d ---inme if Jack Lattsou don't see
han through, that's all.''
" I will do it. Se here--there is over
t'n thou-antd dollars in that boo k-there I'
pertsenit you nithi a thutand to commenl lCe
your w ork wfth. ie faithful, and I am able
to reward you  deceive me, and fear me,
for I hive power
Jupiter, what a pile  of flim.!ie '! ' mtiut-
tered the nan to Ihlinelf, thief-like, deba-
t i; how he cull best and ea-test get hold
tf it iw Itoh' pile. But receiving the thou-
sanl dolhrs she gave imn he said
" hma you Ma'an, you shial l hear from
nc soon. Where shall I aend word to you ?"
Leave it here with Madane' Dfeloirne
Now hiasteni the matter!
Uepenelton me Ma'am, I will !''
The ' illim left the room-a thief was set
to catch a thief.
Constance now turned to Malame I)e-
lor:ue. and taid
- )o you think he will do it ?''
"I /ope so. he'll do anything for mo-
Hey!"
 Well. I have one more thing I want
done. have you among any of your visi-
tors, a genteel looking, powerful man, whom
1 can get to chastise a man in pllic who
insulted me? I wish to have the person,
who pretends to be a gentleman, cowhided
and spat upon in a public assembly, and
will pay well to have it done l"
" Oh, how I'd like to see it done--there's

r

Cf

MISPORTUNE : OR
He is a gentleman, though he is on the
cross.  Circumstaiees ruined hi i)  IIe
doesn't say much to any one, but if he gets
mad lie is awful. lie don't curse or s;u ,
he turns pale when he is angry, his hip I
close together as if lie was locking his teeth
between each other, and his eye looks green
-green as a cat's in the night time.  .aw
hin mad once. He is an American, and a
trig English fellow cursed hin andI his 1a,
id called his motlier a hard namioin. 1,
t la atthtEihm an aitut a roit
fie  he ritoed, and then it was hit' a it
rtar slog springing ont a rat. Tire milnat i
no ti  ieito itll'r  before till  his  tee tIhe r 
lowi his throat, his face kicked in to a jelly,
and the boys catrricl him oil to the hospital
wite reh  lay for three months
That man will do.let me see hi iii
The miant Caie in. ie i id hnt look like
either a criminal or a daigteitos Ian. Hlie
was slender, about medium height, quips te
pale, wtith light-birownr hair antd it Stlt blue
eye. lise exprtessiott way subdutied amrnd tnt
aneholy.
Lady. Mlaai Delorme said you wished
to set' ire " he said.
''Yes Sir, I wish to get some brave.
honorable marn to chastise a villain alo has
insulted ie!''
iMadame, you mistake me. I an
conirnoi ihireling bully--I once was a gen-
Itniman "'
" Sir, do not think I mistake you for a
common hireling. But hear me, a man who
has deceived and wronged mie, raised a caue'
to strike me, and     "
Why didn't you kill him--but no, I for-
get you are a woman ! He raised his hand
to strike a woman ?"
" le did ; and would have done it had I
not been armed and prepared for hitn i
" Where is he? Where can I find the
coward ?"'
lie will le at thin' Opera to-night !'
I cannot go there! The Chief's aids are
lynx-eyed. But if you will give mie the

the front apartmEnts !"                 sleeves, I am just preparing for the Opera !"
"About eight he will be dressing for the  "Make no excuse, Sir-you are precisely
Opera ; it is nbar the time now, and I will in the situation I wished to find you!"
call upon him" !'                          May I enquire your business Sir !"
"Do Sir, aid please accept this purse !"  " Yes, sir, if we are alone. I have some-
4 No Madam, as I said before, once I was thing confidential to communic ate to you
a gentlrman. I need no pay for doing my Excuse me if I lock your door on the inside,
duty as a mian and resenting an insult to a I have a confidential present to make you
lady. Please give me the person's name ?" and servants are so inquisitive !"
It is De frneau. When you have pun-   The stranger locked the door inside and
i'itd him tell him that it is a token of re- then turned to De Gerneau who was startled
ttenubrance from (onstance Morley. But by this proceeding.
to not get yourself into trouble !"      " A present you ay, Sir !" stammered
" Never hear, Madaim, I will look out for the latter, " from a lady may I ask !"
that. Good evening !"                     " Yes sir !"'said the stranger with a plea-
"Stay one moment, accept this ring as a sant smile.
token that I appreciate your manly feel-  " Ahr-some one that has been struck by
ings !"                                 my fine figure!"
" Lady, I thank you. I will preserve it  " Yes, she did say something about your
as a sacred gift to remember one who has striking figure !" said thi stranger smiling
brought back to me somue recollections of again.  "By the way'Sir, I will show you
what t.have been!t'"                   the present, it was sent by Miss Constance
After a brief conference with Madame Morley !"
l)lorme, Constance left the house, regained  The stranger unrolled the package and
her carriage and drove off.             displayed to tie astonished beau a cowhidO
aad a plaster of pitch.
---                     " Villain, what does this mean ! Get out
CIJAI'TER   III.            of my apartments-leave Sir, or I'll shout
for help !" cried Dc' Gerneau.
DE C ur tmo, Vas engaged in his room  " Speak one word louder than a whisper
making his toilet. A servant entered and if you (dare !" said the stranger in a low
announcedaflint a gentleman below wished deep tone ashe drew a broad bladed bowie
tf speak to him amuitnmrrent on some iipor- knife and held it within a foot of Dc-eer-
timnt business.                        mna's breast. " Speak and i'll cut your
. rBusiness ? Business at this hour? Who cursed cowardly heart out!"
te deuce-eanl heut bc !"" Do not murder me !" murmured De-
I donttt know sir !" replied the servant. Gerneau in a whisper.
1 e  tas a small package in his hand and  " Kteel d(own you coward-obey me and
says his business is particular ?"     I will not kill you-disobey and you tie !"
"A package? Why it may be a present   The pallid wretch knelt.    Quick as
from somre lady who's been smitten with thought, the stranger snatched a cravat
my personal appearance. Send the man up, from the dressing table and pinioned Dc-
boy !"                                 Gerneau's hands behind him. Then in the
A moment later the person entered. It same moment he clapped the plaster of pitch
was the same whom we left in our last chap- over his mouth, so that lhe could not speak
ter. Dc Gerneau saw at a glance that it and could only breathe through his nostrils.
was no servant, no common message bearer So sudden and unexpected and so skilfully
who entered.                           was all this done that De Gerneau could
" Take a seat, sir," said he-" you must offer no resistance.
excuse me for being found in my shirt    The stranger now deliberately out the


96                  TIHE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE  OR
shirt from De Gerneanu's back with his knife answer? Will not even sprak to me ?-
and then taking the cowhide in his hand Then I'll leave you, good evening my dear
said :                                  Mr. Dc Gerneau-my carriage waits at thoe
"I am about to show you Sir, what ought door to take me to the opera
to he done with all men who offer to raise  " Good evening, Sir," said the stranger,
a hand against woman, save in kindness.- " I leave you that excellent rawhide to re-
1 am going to chastise you. Do not attempt member me by. "There was only one raw-
to get up from your knees, or with the but hide when I entered the room-there are a
eil of this whip I shall floor you!."  pair now. Good night !"
With a piton', beseechming look, the pal- " Dc Gerneau was 1und nearly dead an
lid wretch looked up, his w hole frame trem- hour afterwards by his servant, and he (lid
bling with terror. But hl met no mercy in not attend the opera that night.
Lh' strangers eye. The latter did nt (seen
to be ini the leapt excited, the same cairn
smile rested upon his pale c-)mtenance-           CHAPTER LIV.
lie raised the twisted thong-it whistled

through the air and came down with tre-
nundous force on the bare back of his vic-
tim. Again and again. in swift succession
it came down, cutting through the skin at
every lash.   Dc Gerneau writhed    arid
struggled, he strove to rise and the stran-
ger true to lims word knocked him prostrate.
Waiting for a moment till his victim recov-
ered his senses- lie placed his foot upon his
reck and continued the terrible infliction,
until the man's hack looked like a mass of
hacket and mangled meat, and. he seemed
insensible to pain.  Then he rolled him
over on his face. and poured the contents
of his wash bowl in his face to recover him.
As soon as he saw that he caine too enough
to understand him, ho said
This Sir, is your first lesson.  If you
ever trouble that lady in any way for this,
my niext one shall be more severe. You
may thank me that I leave life in you. I
am a gentleman, no common bully or thief,
or I should borrow your watch and parse
from the table there, though I expect nei-
ther of them are worth carrying off. Fare-
well, sir, I'll send Doctor Mott to examine
the etbects of my blister application to your
back! Ah, here is another visitor, a lady I"
Constance Morley enterd. She saw at a
glance how terribly he had been punished-
she felt how much ie deserved it.
"Are you ill my dear Mr. De Gerneaut-
she asked in a tone of irony.  "Why do
you not rise to receive a lady?  What, no

AxoTIrEn (lay is before is-Catlin was in
his apartment, busily engaged in writing a
note. lie finished it, enveloped aid sealed
it, then after directing it, rang a small bell
which lay upon the table.   Tie woman
Canconmse answered the summons.
" Seid the boy up here !" he said.  1
have anerrand for him.''
A boy entered the room shortly after, a
smart, shrewd looking youngster.
Take this note to its direction.  Ask
fur Miss Motmirise, and give it to her your-
self-see that she has it. If she asks who
sent it, tell her that a lady gave it to you
to carry. Beware not to mention my name
and answer no questions. Do this errand
rigid and a live dollar gold piece is ready
for you when you get back !''
The boy took the note and departed up-
on his e'rand.
" That will decoy her off if she is the
Girl I take her to be. I have imitated the
hand writing of Constance exactly, and if
she meets the appointment she'll id stron-
ger arms than those of a woman to enfold
her. I think I can convince her that I ai
a villian, as easily as Constance can. My
plan cannot fail. She will not fear to meet
me in the Parade Ground at so early an
hour, and it will be easy to get her off. I
can blind all the police around, and get
their help, if Ineed it, with fifty dollars 1-
And now for the carriage and the help-I
must fix that all right for I must have her

11

TILE VICTIMS oF LOTTERY AND POLICY DEALERS.                WI
housed in Jersey and be back to night so as Her face was radient with joy and after ae
to avoid suspicion and prove an alibi.  I read it, she kissed it again and again.
must be careful!"                         "Dear--dear brother, oh how happy I am
At this very moment, Mrs. Caneouse was that I shall see you so soon? Soon, soon I
engaged with a visitor, one with whom she shall press you to my bosom!"
had long been acquainted, one who has but  Her father entered while she was speak-
recently however, come before our notice. ing.
I mean Mr. Lattson. lie had been an ac-   "Have you good news my child, that you
quaintance and pal of her husband's, and seem so glad and joyous?" he asked.
always very friendly with her. I do not   " Oh yes, dear father, brother is coming
remember to have told the readers in any home-he will probably be here this very
of the former chapters, that Mrs. Cancouse evening! Oh how glad we shall all be to
was a grass-widow whose husband was ab- see him 1"
sent doing the state service in a stone quarry  "We shall indeed, my child. Has Mr.
as a reward for his dexterity in appropria- Catlin called on you this morning?"
I ting that which other people claimed as   " No, dear father, and I hope lie willnt.
I their property. But she was not aware I do not se. how I can treat him civilly!"
however, that she owed her widowhood      "Do, dear daughter, for my sake. It i
entirely to Mr. Catlin, whom she believed only to temporise with him until I can in
to be the true friend of her husband and some way recover from my embarassmonts.
herself -But Mr. Lattson knew this well ; I do not ask you to marry him!."
' fo it was about the proceeds of the spoil in " No, dear father, if you did, I should be
the very case that the conviction was had forced for the first time in my life to diso-
upon, that Lattson quarrelled with Catlin boy you. But there is a ring at the door ;
who had been the receiver. And going let me see who it is. The servant is out on
systematically to work toiearn his promised an errand for mother 1"
ten thousand dollars and to satisfy his re-  The beautiful girl went to the door and
venge.                                  in a moment returned with another letter in
lie was aware that Mrs. Caneouse knew her hand.
that Catlin had the stolen property which  " How lucky I am   this morning," she
consisted mostly of jewelry of great value, said. " Here is another letter to me, but
and he had made ip his mind to find out this is in a lady's hand writing. Who can
where it was, so that he could have proof of it be from?"
Catlin's guilt by its seizure on his premises,  As she proceeded to open the letter her
as well as the other facts in his possession. father passed on into an inner room  At
And he determined ifspossible, to win Mrs. the first glance at the note as she opened it,
C. as an accomplice to his designs. To do she muttered :
this lie had excellent materials. First, she  "This is from the same one who wrote to
liked money, (what woman does not?) and me before-from Canstance Morley! She
he intended to share the spoils with her ; says that if I will meet her in the centre of
second, he knew that she loved her husband the Washington Parade Ground, entering by
and if made aware of the treachery which the corner gate on University Place, she
had deprived tier of him by a twenty years will convince me beyond a doubt that Cat-
sentence to State's prison, would be ripe lin is a deep-dyed villain, and give me in
for revenge and he had the proof ready to formation which will save my lather from
assure her of that fact. And with this state ruin. The hour is eight o'clock. I will go,
of affairs we will leave them together for a yes, for my father's sake I will go! The
little while amid go elsewhere,         letter says I must go alone. Why that can-
Ilettie Montrose was seated in the parlor tionl Perhaps, poor thing, she hates to by
of the mortgaged cottage, read'rig a letter, seen by those who know her to be what she

ti
'I


38                        THE WHEEL OF MISFORTUNE ; OR
acknowledges herself to be, a poor lost and there ! Besides my dear brave brother Is
ruined grl. hown oble it is in her to try to coming home 1"
save me from h r fate. I will not despise   Will you not do me a fvor. Miss Mon-
her-I will pity her and love her for her trose ? asked Constance.
hart is goodpv                              Oh yes, anything on earth that I can do
Oh ntaa, oh Mis HIlettie I Inane !" -you have been so good to warn mIe
cried the ierv ant girl coning in from the  Then keep that a point meant, go to-
street where she had been sent on anl errand, night at the hour  aed to the Parade
there's such a grand carriage, with the Ground and meet him, for Ion ure he will
ft ri  all dre d ot in nrricorn and ae le there. You need not fear, I will be
b, autiful lady in it, just stopped in front of there and with a force to protet you. Your
thu loor, Oh ie, there's the door hell!'  father can follow at a distaie arid will
Th servant ran to the door, and in a mo- see that hie is arrested ere he can do more
ot ntcainehackthan to show his purpose
Sie trll roe to give you this bit 'o  " Oh I dare not ! I am afraid of him."
pit eted-hoard, marnI'                    " hLein I will co with you. We will go
i ti glanced at tre card. Tie name in a commron back with the curtains drawn
ljir itt  aneth   at of  thare  Morley.  - vyour  father can  rile  with  us  arid  your
up wak the lady in ( sie said to tre ser- brother-lut what time lo you expect your
a ant.                                  brother ?"
ont nee carn in. &amp;e was dre.il in      Down by the evening boat at six
-p rnnrriing, which made her pale face o       ..k.
k   rr,'ti ijr p il  l li t:  1     "rii nr rl. 'Then he will be in time. We can go iin
i   n  ort   p \ -M  alorlnd  ! nail  aettie-  the  carriage  to  the  gate  arid  yen  can  get
I  w as r ui irg  y or k il note  oathis  ern-  ut.  If he  inite nidi s  to  z  you  hlie  will  he
I w   rid li yi or k d t o tfy m ir   to  keep  tie there  iii  som e  isguise  or  their.  n diti  yo  it
ailnldii ih  m    up mymimpleave the rest to mi. I will e prpred
a -it m Appoinntme.- t--MissMoutrose? for rhimt. for a warrant is already out to ar-
t dA         pi lp omt i i n l t m  t -w s u t r o  r e s t    i m  f o r   a   S t a t e ' s   Nii i s o n i  o l f i c e .  F e l -
S d o li i udr .  o   ysit  it to i  m e  tis  m orn-  low  m y  lirietior s  la dly,  you  w ill  i ver  e-
ni* li0lyou trot .'"said Ilittioe, liirrliig  er gret it. Vou need not lisclose the n ittir
ti+'tii ii neto your father at all, but tell your brother
lThat  rnmli my handwriting perfect- itif7e Corm's to Lrni hislf7i ready.
I   t I ll nit w-rite or send it. There if we are cool and wary we will trap the
S   cue ,I+ p t reacuirryhafoot. Trat villain in his onri sinar'.  iut I must go
S   bt  Ia r   p trachryigaftIi-oot 'l:' wir I hii'lie might comie to ati  t iltyo, and1 seeing mry
- -' -ri  i1' of aritrrg. Who browghte1t'riagoe suepeet that all awas diseovi rid.
I mierly Caie to reveal to you fully his
mall Iboy who sail a lady sent him  course of life anid his cnirries! After he has
ti  it4 r been secured, it you desire it you shall
ti+you notice anything peculiar about know rll! Till eveirrg tariavel iril t il
bless you, h-auti fril girl. God bless yorn!
"   Miss Morley, hi' gate nl' the note  Ilettie pressed the hand of Corstia cc
A18 1rurnrl e l'fbir 1Inthatil 'trinI it.' and the tears started iii her eyes is sre
"  thiniI knrir  who iw' rote that note. heard the thrilling tones of her voice, arid
Noi   i'   i  well aerualtoid xwih rmy haul- thought how unhappy she was who uttered
t'ritiutr .  . ' alrris. Ie meansto abduct those kind words.
Constance re-entered her carriage arid
you, I am Certain (Of It.'              drove off, for she had much to do that
" Oh could he be so vile ! But thank day, ind her hour of vengeance was ap-
Guod he cannot harm   me--I will not go preaching.

TuE VICTIMS OF LETTER

CHAPTER LV.
R'ADER do you remember a happy cot-
tage home which I described as the abode
df peace and joy and love, in the earlier
chapters of this History-I mean the house
of Charles lirennon ?
Come with me into it once more-come
  quickly for I hear the sound of a woman's
pleading voice there, and the sound of men's
voices uttering high and angry words.
Look--there is poor Mary Brennon, hag-
gard and worn. pale from terror, standing,
between her father and her husband, trying
to hold the latter back and to soothe him.
Bothof the men are evidently in liquor,
both too are tiushed with anger.
"I repeat it !" cried the elder, " you
have robbed meo-it is your fault, that I anl
a bankrupt ! It is your fault that I am a
penniless, ruined man.
You lie!" shouted Charles-" your lie
you old dotard, you've robbed yourselfand
your creditors and spent all the money in
lottery tickets! If you say I've robbed
you again I'll split your head open as a
a butcher cleaves an oxn
)Oh, Charles, Charles, remember that he
is my father !I"
"Woman, get out of my way-d-n
you let ine alone, I won't let your father or
anybody's father call me a thief!"
His actions were even rougher than his
words, for with all his strength he hurled
hn' aide.  She staggered and her head
struck against the sharp corner of the mar-
work over the ireplace.  She uttered
1cry or groan, tint the blood gushed in
-frrents from he' face, as she eli senseless
to the floor.
."You dog of hell, do you dare to strike
iiy daughter !" yelled the old main, spring-
ing forward and grasping with the unnat-
ural husband. Oh, terrible was the strug-
gle that then ensued I Clinched closely to-
gether they fell to the floor and there strik-
iig, tearing each other with their teeth, like
two infuriated dogs, they rolled and wor-
ried each other. The poor woman was
insensible to this struggle. The life blood

Y AD POLICY DEALERS.               99
was welling from  her wpunds-and still
they fought on. But the strength of the
old man was failing ; the young man was
getting  the better. Ah, what see we
there ! A knife in the old man's' hands ?--
Yes-great God, see him raise it---see it
come flashing down into that prostrate
form ! Once, twice, thrice-oh terrible-
a piercing shriek--a moan, a quivering of
the frame, and Charles Brennon struggles
no more -
Covered with gore the father rises, drops
his bloody knife and rushed to the side of
ris daughter. He raises her up-he calls
her by name-she answers not-he puts his
hand upon her heart-it is still, her eyes are
glazed-she is DEAD!   Oh God, what a
scene ! And yet the tragedy is not closed.
He lays her down again, gently down upon
the bload stained floor. lie picks up the
knife ie has dropped. He looks at those
bodies, He utters no word. He calls not
for help-he does not try to flee from their
presence-he breathes no prayer, but places
the point of that knife calmly against his
breast-so calmly that he feels where the
blade cart best pass in between thei ribs.-
Ihear the crunch of the blade as it goes in
to the very hilt to the heart. A minute he
stands inmoveable, not a groan, not a sigh
-then with a gasp he falls forward on the
body of his dead child.
Reader, MUmnra has been done ! Who
did it? IT WAS THE LOTTERY DEAL-
ERS OF NEW YORK!
CHAPTER LVI.
Ir was nearly eight o'clock. A carriage
was standing under the shade of some trees
a little beyond the North-eastern corner of
Washington Parade Ground. The door was
partly open and one or two persons were
sitting inside of it. Loitering around, were
several persons-and one or two were sit-
ting over by the railing of the park, engaged
in conversation, like citizens who were
whiling away an hour in discussing the
politics of the day. Very few people were

ii

Ii
.1


100

THE WHEEL OF MsFORTtTNE ; OR

in the Parade Ground, and most of them she said, retreating toward her carriage,
persons who hurried through on their way ' And I prefer you should not !" he said,
to dilTerent parts of the city, ordinary pas- springing forward and attempting to grasp
Iongers.                               her around the waist.
Most of these were importuned for alms At that instant the carriage dnor flew
by an old bggar woman who was postedjopen anl a young man in undress military
at the gate, but few of them heeded her'uniform, followed by a gentleman and ao-
tho(Jugh once in a while some one wonldther lady, sprang out, and Mr. Catlin ri-
drop a few pence in her out-stretched hand- ceived a blow which sent him reeling over
It was nine o'clock. At that hour a hacklagainst the fenced railing, where he instant-
drove rapidly up to the gate, coming fromily was caught in a vice-like grasp by the
the up-town direction. It stopped, the dri- driver of the hack, who said
ver leaped from the box and opened the   "Tullius Catlin, I arrest you in the name
door. A young lady stepped from the car- of the people of New York !"
riage-it was IHettie-and he partially clos-  "'Who are you ?" gasped the villain.
ed it again.                             "James Leonard, of the Chief's office, you
Wait for mue driver !" said Iettie with scoundrel1"
a trembling voice, and she passed on to-  ''I -te meanitim tie  polit.ciars'' ur
ward the gate. )id the old woman rivnoried up, and proved to he '" shadows from"
reach out hr onrd for alms? No, first she the Police Otm!ee-men tried and true. Tre
blew a shrrill -ignial fromn a whistle, thren ctraewnhhdbenwiir     rv    -p
rose up arnd as the other carriage started''idly ol; the loiterers disappeared, and Cat-
toward the spot. threw off the cloak and lin was in the hands of his captors.
hood which hrad concealerd her form, nd
.ca               The lady who had accompanied the oth-
--the old woman had disappeared        ers in tire last carriageapproacred
Trllius Catlin was there            mCatlinh, raised her veil, ad   phrr she saw
" G i evenning Miss M rntrrrse !'' he said. thatihe recogised her, said
I have heen waiting for you for some timrer  " . (iosr.cr: Munr- have done this-
-my carriage yonder is at your service- annd I have the evidence to convict you of
you nmd riot scream or resist, for 'I have burglary !
plenty of force at hand. Act like a lady  And she did     .
ro ern s hall rotIre irarmred !'"
" I prctr to go in my own conveyanca !".
TIlE END

I

TRUE PJGTURE OF NEWYORK BY NIGHT AI\ID DAY.
NEW EDITION OP THE
0 R,
BY JOHN M. MOORE, ESQ.,
Ee&amp;utiful1y Illustrated with 25 Engravings. Price 25 Cents.
" Niw Booxs.-That admirable novel. 'Tomn Stapleton,' is at last put up in book form, having
tire years ago adorned the pages of the Brother Jonathan weekly Journal. tr. Moore, the
onhor, has decidedly won by it a place for himself on a level with his countryman. Charles
i  er. The scenes are numerous, and the characters drawn with irrimitule faithrfinluress. It is
redolent with wit and waggery. and gives an insight into life.and living in New-York, which is
neigh to surfit the curiosity or explode the pert-up irhlth of a hermit: Trrth sits upon his pen
I hrrughout, and where the great Irish novelist, Lever, goes into the excess of caricature
Moore is within tire bounds of pr'obability, anid tlrefore worth as much alrga-r. 'fie author of
Tom Stapleton' is one of those men who are really advantages to the world they live in, for
they see its fults and follies, paint its peculiar ties, and hrold the mir-ror up to nature in such a
style, that all must be good-humored even though reflected on. Read it, read it, friends."-
fuffa/o Express.
This book is published at the low price of 25 cents, and is richly worth a dollar.
on,
T H E MERRY DAYS OF ENGLAND.
By the Author of "The Jesuit," "The Young Chevalier," &amp;c.
Beautifully Illustrated. Price 50 Cents.
"' This able writer has fairly imbued his mind with the historical facts of this famous period of
history, and has formed accurate conceptions of the strange characters that clustered around
the person of the English Sardanapalus-the witty but licentious Charles ii. But this book is no
wories of dry historical details--it is an animated drama  The varied characters are presented
to us inl such lively action, tiat the reader appears to mingle with the gay but guilty groups
c bat peopled the gorgeous saloons of the merry monarch. We see the jovial Charles, laughter
in his eye and jests upon his lips; the polished but heartless Rochester, ' who never said a fool-
iih thing, and never did a good one ;' the merry, simple-hearted Nell Gwyne, the amorous, fasei-
nating mistress of the king ; the Countess of Castlenmaine ; and the saturnine tyrant, James II.
"The great interest of the plot-the developments of Court intrigues in lovc and politics-the
perils and adventures of the hero and heroine of the story-the plots and counterplots of the
Cavaliers and Roundhcads, and the strange incidents that befel the ' Merry Monarch' in his
wanderings among the roughest of his subjects, form the groundwork of one of the best book
we have lately been called upon to notice."-.Morning Star.
-!&amp;Copies of either of the above justly-celebrated works will be sent to any one by Retuirt
of mail, on the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the letter to the Prulishers, and you
will then receive the work by return of mail, free of postage.
Published and for sale by
GARRETT &amp; CO, 18 Ann-street, N. Y.


A NEW NOVEL, EQUAL TO CHARLES O'MALLEY
OR
THE RIVAL SUITORS.
BY WM. H. MAXWELL,.
AUJIJHOLI OF
'1 oon O'JtOAN, iuim:q or w A       n10, wil       ) s  i o  lw wes'r, rIO.
Ils   1     I hpi ik is of the " ni is  ) Maley" school-full of dashing
a  l a viint Ur  ,1tove1intritlneS, Itrillbiat t k-teh1+s  )ofbattle  sck~en, in  wich ltthe
in'lpin I!wiailtln  cliarge 1and tlterrible defeat ar) (1etaihl1 with all the force of
truth.  h Hir BAC  4 b+ltg, s we :15w(1havesaid, to a ppilat class of books, a nd
We think it lecidledli the very hIeIt ot its clats.  We have not the space, though
+ we have   riling inilination, to give urr111'wiers'(I  alate tt  of its qaithty-to re-
iit at bnt thre t   l l mathII iiscin t of the loves mt voting the fortune-teller in the
t ;+m of i the f+ort ; the a ;ppatling lintert\ioww ml the grave- tories in the church-
arid at miiilt i th rol  r d.i g   of   i .tiireietil in's-ttlel ; the lou1t
h 4-14..    +t;.'itn 4  ', tm Iln1Olimlnt f it h nval I:tams; tin' ithearfiul earnarm of the
a ii    b: th   iligi  to ablr p   1 foridl during their imouitain corlbat ; the
rit'hly-humorouts tl'"con !!f'iitOns itf;ta en tlman who wo'tul have married if he
(c01111;'" mol a lo;.in ''t r illiii-ation, ioarkol iIn eiery page by l)some bold trait
oif wst it' rtgenius. ' lTewm lik++ dec rition, wm ivii' with thet,'most animated
Etne iii All i1or Nawri ;ian ti thelliiii I llu s p1lortinis ofithe o1)ohk have1 no
peer, but in the paget f  lt Ier tor Lover.---ooring ,/Str.
Ti'i l hvotAi', OinRRVAt 1v t ar1n-, by) C(il. WV. 11. Maxwell, is one of those
1phpil:1r ittuuances w hic.hi te . eIgrlyl dleviurid fby reullers of fiction, and, in this
ins     Wan+'.' wi t tilhe dltieterious iitndntice which is too frequently attributed to
tmuch  ,t:of ilth e l    i latlure  f' tEyiit.  hit '  ivontnle"  is  t spliritelt,. well-conceived
a   thrilling  1pwtur11   ithei i)'Mtlilv stl'. Thi imIiioir of a ruined beauty,
whichl occurs in the euorse of the storv, is a touholung exhibition of the extreme
uguih whicibflettr vliiian falseho111 may intlit.  Gar~rtt &amp; Co  New York,
have iedI.il it iii fair type :anld witi illubratioBIs.---Se/urday (ourwr.
t il
FAIR RUSAIIOND:
on
THE QUEEN'S VICTIM.
BY TlE AUTHOR OF "QUINTIN MATSYS," "ROBIN HOOD," &amp;o.
ULUSTRATED WITH SEVERAL BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
Price Fifty       Ce n ts.
r 'HIS charming novel in foided on incidots in the history of England during Plant-.
gonet rule, and contaius scenes of pathetic interest to which none but a taster of
romance coull do just icI. To relpresent correctly the costumes. character, and language of
that early period, is a task of no little difficulty: but our author has evidently studied his
subject well, and has sustained himself admirably in this respect throughout.
g   Copies or either of the above works will be sent to any one by return of mail, on
the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the letter to the Publishers, and you will then
receivethe work by ret'irn of mail, free of postage. Published and for sale by
GA RRrE T T &amp; CO.,
No. 18 Ann Street, New York.

l i        n
4
1
1
4
l
it
t
i
l    r

A Better Book at last than the Count of YonteCristo!

S

AN IIISTORICAL ROMANCE.
AUTHOR OF "THE JESUIT," "ROBIN                GOODFELLOW," ETC
WITH ALL TAE ILLUSTRATIONS.
This powerfully written fiction embraces one of the most exciting periods of
English history-the reign of the royal Bluebeard, Henry ViII.    The high
dramatic interest of the plot ; the developments of'Court intrigues in love and
polities ; the perils and adventures of the hero and heroine of the story ; the
rapid, uninterrupted sweep of the narrative, which seems to bear the reader with
it, and render him an actual spectator of the stormy scenes of that stormy era,
stamp the work as one of the greatest historic and chivalric Romances since the
days or Mr' V' alter Scott.
This work is published entire from the English edition, with all the illustra-
tions, in two large handsome volumes. Price One Dollar.
Published and for sale, wholesale and retail,

BEFORE AND BEHIND
OR,
FIFTEEN YEARS' OBSERVATIONS AMONG
THE THEATRES OF NEW YORK.

II                  By DI
One volume, complete.   Pri.
G A
4                          __._r_

R. J. K. NORTHALL.

cc 50 cents.
R Ii E T T &amp; C O., 18 Ann Street,N. Y.

_______________ V

i

t
i
1

-
i, '"
f
,,

ST&amp;NJiEMi liLtil


NEW BOOKS NE                                  OOKSI
ANGELA WILDON
OR, TUE
MYSTERIES OF ALTEDORF CASTLE.
BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS,
AUTHOR OFi" LIFE IN LoN 90N," "II E N      RtOMANCER," ETC.
BeautifullyfIllustrated---TwoVols., Price
eciBook that will come I                        are in  dramatic interest
with this, unquestionably, the best of (. W. M. Reynolds' books.  The scenes
are thrilling in the extreme ; the characters boldly drawn and admirably contrast-
ed-the good with the hait.  There is not a s litary paru daph that d pes not tend
to' the development of they horrible aysti'y that, like a blood--stained pall,en
shrouds the heroine in.its heavy folds front the fitt chapter of the tale.  Numer-
nas Engravmngs of uncon eflxcllence, illustrate many of the extraordinary
incidents which are thickly strewn through the Oo)k.-lorfing Sta'
ALSO, .T'T P     S'h :DEl), 
GRAIGALLAN CASTLE:
THE STOLEN WILL.
BY MRS. GORE,
AUTHORESS OF      AB INEo, Trll MONEY LENDER," ETC.
Price 25 Coits.
Test is the title of a new romance front the pen of Mrs. Gore, dservedy
esteetredl one of the very best w ites of the a ge.  We know  noit that we have I
et  er ken s' I el 1Yntovd by the  hina tien of fictitious woes,.sdrn   u
tilsali efthis lart- ltint tale.The interest of the story is based upon the
secret marriage of a wealthy young merehat to a young, innocent, and trustin r
gir , whom circumstances prevent front ever seeing the father of her chd after
the evening of the coinsuntuation of her nuptials.  Her child, the heir of Craig-
allan Castle, is thwarted for many years by the machinations of a double-dyed
villain, Ludovico, whose hellish schemes arc however finally frustrated ; but not1
before the youthful heir and his affianced sweetheart pass through penis of the
most trying description, which are depicted with matchless force and naturalness.I
The hook is one that must have an immense sale, if merit meets with its deserts.
[7  Copies of either of the above justly coeilrt.ed wrrks will be sent to any one by return
Smail, on the r-cetpt of the price in a letter. Atdress the letter to the Publishers, andiyou
will then receive the work by return of mail, frete of Postage.
Publijhed and for sale by
GA        ETT &amp; .

PiUE, FIFTY tENTS, COMPLETE.
BY NED BUNTLINE,
Mr. JtDsON (Ned Buntline) enjoys a world-wide celebrity for the masterly
character of his writings, and the fidelity with which he delineates the varied
hases of Metropolitan life.  lie wields a bold, dashing, vigorous pen, and
plunges at once into his subjects with all the gallant impetuosity of a knight spur-
rin; his brave charger into battle.  With intelleetual energies rarely equalled, a
quick, congrehensive eye, and an unrivalled faculty for pm'iaug (and delineating
objects as they strike him, he brings before his readers scenes and characters, not
with thle faint pencil of flotiance, but witb the vivid pen of Truth In his present
work, " The B'hoys of New York," Mr. JunsoN hias suinnoned to his aid all
that masterly talent for which lhe is so pre-tltiileilt, andi the result is----a free, full,
and graphic picture of lifecroonifl~fgic .b'1lys ; their muanners, customs, habits and
peculiarities, and all the lights and shades of ]'/ec life.  No other work in this
country (The Mysteries and Miseries of New York, perhaps, excepted) presents
so perfect a series of Metropolitan scenes and characters, and the fidelity with
which they arc rendered will at once strike every reader familiar with the person-
r ges and localities, of every variety and stamp, of the Metropolis of the Empire
'tate.  In its pages will be found the striking likenesses of the B'hoys - the gay
and dashing G'hals ; the haaitaes of gambling hells ; fashionable saloons, and their
(frequenters ; the broken down Iole, and, in fioe, every phase of city life, peu-1
rliarities and manners.
Agents and the trade supplied on very liberal terms
Published and for sale, wholesale and retail, by
GA RR E TT   &amp;   CO., 18    4NN-STREKT.

I

*1~

'


P1RIC FIFTY CENTS, COMPLETE.
EUGENE SUE'S GREAT PROSCRIBED BOOK,

I

1112       111Ui)JLlU1L       J      ViU '   11112i     1 HUJIi.4J.
IN the course of this great Romance, SUE, (while he adds much to the interest of the1
plot,) exposes the causes which drive so many
THOUSANDS OF THE MEN OF PARIS TO GAMBLING, ROBBERY,
AND TIlE GALLEY, AND THE WOMEN TO PROS.-
TiTUTION AND THE MORGUE.
While it is entirely free from any offensive thoughts or language, it unveils the terrible
social evils that are
GANGRENING THE VERY HEART OF THE FRENCH SOciEPy.
Never has genius conceived or described more interesting characters than those which im
part to this story the animation of real life. The bold, handsome, but cruel and licentious
('clonel do Plournel-the stern, frigid, jesuitical Cardinal-the lovely and virtuous daugh.
ter of the honest Linen Draper-the intrepid and worthy young Joiner-and the beau-
tiful but guilty Grts 4e, who receives in her white breast the ball aimed s  cr heroc
lover on the barricades-are all faithful types of the various classes in the metropolia of
Frar.ee.
So admirably written and full of interest, indeed, is this incomparable book, that all the
vigilance of the French spies and police has bccn unable to prevent the circulation of mi.
lions of copies in every department of France.
-pE T MY5TERIES or Tu  PEOILE, or the lbstory of a Pruietarian Family, from the
Earliest Ages to the Present Time. Tram ,ated from the French of Eugene Sue, Member
of the Legislative Assembly of France -This Tale, which commenced in Jany., contains
one of the most striking pictures of serfdom ever drawn by human hand. The truth is
boldly anid fearlessly dehineated ; and all true friends of freedom and real philanthrop.'sts
mu-t admire the work and bless its author. The Times newspaper has endeavored V)
run down " The Mysteries of tne People," but when we assure our readers that it was this
tale which won for Eugene Sue his election as Member forl Paris in the beginning of May,
the fat alone will prove a sufficient refutation of the scandalous aspersions and malignant
falsehoods of that despot-loving journal."-Reynolds's Miscellany.

Published and for sale wholesale and retail by
GARR   ETT     &amp;  CO., 18ANN STREET,N. Y

D3' The Best Stories of the hevoIution ever Published. .

t  ani  eantxi[ t  a~tns of

The Morning Star, in speaking of the late lamented Mr. CuarrS, says : "H
made himself thoroughly master of almost every incident in our Revolutionary
annals, and we have the result of his studies in all his deeply interesting novels-
His plots never outrage probability, the characters are nobly drawn, and his
familiarity with the 'time that tried men's souls,' enable him to introduce in
his works many episodes of the adventure and thrilling danger which E often
beset our forefathers in that perilous period. In a word, his novels are roman-
ces of our country's history, penned by an eloquent writer, whose patriotic
heart burned within him as he chronicled the achievements of his gallant fore-
fathers."
-     Copies of either of the above justly celebrated works will be sent to
any one by return of mail, on the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the
letter to the Publishers, and you will then receive the work by return of mail,
free of postage.
GARRETT &amp; CO.
P rBL I 8   ER8,
IS .nn St.. Xew-rYork.

"""'..

---

NERTONM                     URTliNOVELL
T H E  P RA IRI E  GUIDE; On, TnsE Ross OF THE Rio GRAND.
Price 25 Cents.
BYRON      BLON DAY; On, Tas BLU RANGER OF THE MoIAWL
A Tale of the American Revolution. Price 25 Cents.
THE    MAID OF SARAN AC. A Tale of the Revolutionary War.
Price 25 Cents.
THE RANGER        OF RAVENSTREAM. A Taleof theRev-
olutionary War. 110 pages. Price 25 Cents.
THE    HAUNTED      CH IE F ; OR, Tin FEMALE BAnDIT. A Taleof
the Mexican War. Price 25 Cents.
THE PATROL         OF THE MOUNTAIN; On, Tna DAnr
of 1776. Price 25 Cents.
THE    SCOUT     OF THE      SILVER POND. A Tale of
the American Revolution.
THE MATRICIDE'S         DAUGHTER. A Tale of Life h the
Great Metropolis. Price 25 Cents.
T H E  VI CT I M'S REV E N GE. (A Sequel) Price 25 Cents.
THE STAR OF THE           FALLEN. A Sequel to the above.

s
J

i
e
I

t


"

A THRILLING HISTORICAL ROMANCE
UITIN MA aT SY S.
OR ,

'oyes nailed to any address in the U. S., on receipt of 50 cents, (post-piu  p

NED BUNTLINE'S LAST &amp; GREATEST WORK

I

1If9iilt)                        f        1tlwrip.
BY   PIERCE    EGAN, E8Q,
AUTHOR OF
"Life in London," "Robin Hood," "Wat Tyler," etc.
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
PRICE 50 CENTS.
e i s.
" Quintin Matsys ; or The Blacksmith of Antwerp. "-The romantic history
of the great Flemish Painter, whom love removed fiom the anvil to the easel,
presents such capital points for the pen of romance that it would be next to im-
possible to construct an uninteresting story out such good material.  The author
of this book has worked up his lot with ingenuity and power  The language is
chaste and elegant, and the tale so fasenating that it holds the reader's mind
with firm grap until its perusal is finished.-Phihu/e/lphia Sunday Despatch.
Quintin Matsys; or The Blacksmith of Antwerp "-This is a tale of what is
called the dark or middle age, daing from the beginning of the thirteenth centu-
ry, when superstition and might were the only governing principles. At this time
a sl  ty was formed to protect the weak against the strong, which was called
" F hm Geriehte," and the terror of that band was felt throughout Germany.-
N, person could commit a crime or plunder his neighbor, but retributive justice
woul 1 overtake him. It is a truly thrilling work.  Published by Garrett &amp; Co.,
Ann Street.-Spiri of the Tims.
This is a reprint, and one of tlv most thrilling, romantic and fascinating ste
that has found its way to the public heart and mind from any quarter. It is fu
of dramatic action-portraying every variety of thought and feeling, and compares
fvorably with the best modern novels. Indeed it is among the best ever written
-A mria    Artiza n.
Published andfor sate by
GARR ETT &amp; CO.
18 Ann Street, New-York
Also by all Booksellers in the United States.

I

fI,

1
j

p

lMA .Ane  w   . +se.w .  www  mr .r r*.

I

The most original, thrilling, and truly Nautical Romance that
has appeared in America since the immortal Cooper
gave us the Pilot, Water Witch, &amp;c.

Tw! WM4IID.
OR,
A. ' NAVAL, PIRATICAL AND YACHTING ROMANCE !!!
BY NED BUNTLINE.'
PRICE 25 CENTS.


i       ltsw

T If,
MOST SINGULAR AND EXCITING NARRATIVE
b)CE Vubiijdr in t~i   !f~nnr,
y1         2~  *2.$

Being the History of a native of the city of New-York, who, but a few
years Since, ran a career of unexampled boldness and
depravity as a pirate, and a practising phy-
sician in the City, alternately fob-
lowing each profession.
PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST
COLLECTION OF SONGS EVER PUBLISHED.
WiTHMNUMEROUTS ILLUSTRATIONS. PRICE 12$ CENTS.
INST R L SONC                OK

Poor Unle Tom, (new.)
Good Oldli ut at home, (new.)
Fireman's Death, (new with
Mfiule.)
Nancy Till, (new.)
Romping Nell, (new with Music.)
Young ['olks at home, (new with
Muslc.)
Katy, Drling, new with Musi.)
O'o the Hills, Bessie, (new.)
i(ate Loraine, (with Music.)
New York by Moonlight, (new.)
Luly Dinah,
Jane Monroe,
The Locust Huni,
The Age of Hlumbi1ug,
Wake !p, Muse,
Gal from the South,
Colored Fancy Ball,

CONTENTS.
De Singing I)arkey of de Ohio,
Brudder Iones's love Scrape,
De Old law-I-,ne,
Would 1 were a Biny Again,
Emlia Snow,
Female Siave'a lament,
I wiah I wits in Old Virginny,
Sally White,
Julius's Bride,
Ginger's Wedding.
Cynthia Sue,
Rosy Anna,
Suwy Brown,
1ail, All Hail,
Charleston Gals,
Rosy May,
Wom u's Delineators,
Aunt I)inah Re,
We are gwan to de Shucking,

Colored Orphan Doy,
Uncle Gabriel, or Sandy Point,
Popular Trio,
Lulily Colored Dine,
Jolly Old Crow,
Dina's Wedding,
Where is my Pompey Gone?
Julius (1esar Creen,
Darkies, get your lats,
I'm off tlr Charleston,
Rose of Tenisee,
Tinkling of de Banjo,
Paraphrase on Uncle Ned,
Charming Lovely Nell,
De Coon Hunt,
Old Massa is going to Town.
Good Bye, Sally Dear
Oh, Lemuel.

ALSO' CONTAINING A SELECTION OF THE MUST POPULAR CHORUSES, QUARTETTES, GLEES,
TRIOS, DUETTES, SONGS, PARODIES, BURLESQUES, ETC. ; ALSO, FUNNY
STORIES, SATIRICAL JOKES, QUAINT SAYINGS, CONUNDRUMS,
REPARTEES, ETC., AS TOLD BY THE CELE-
BRATED. E HORN,
AT WOOD'S MINSTREL HALL, 444 BROADWAY.
N.B. Copies mailed to any place in the United States on the receipt of
12} center, addressed to
GARRElT &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS,
18 Ann-street, New York.

fT'
,
_
r
r

1
Y
3}3
q
I
4c ^.
6
gg
q
r F
L

.,
F
rr
',
a
i
S
3-
t

f.
\


gibes of  Q tbrattb  Mim n.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF TOM KING,
T'HE HIGHWA'srMAiOT.

ADVENT'RES stranger than ever nueeliats invented, were ofalmost nightly occurrence
in tie eventful life of this bol, had man. Ie never seemed happier, than when rashly
staking his life, by attacking travel rs-eareless of the odd--or- Scouring along at
brrak-nec speed, with the " hue and cry " of a county at his heels. This highwayman's
character was marked by a certain 'devil-mav-care'smanner, that made him the terror of
ch'riff's, officers, and at the same time, a general favorite with his gay, rollicking con-
pan ions.
Copies mailed to anyt part of the United States en receipt of ' cents, addressed t,
GARRETT &amp; CC., 18 ANN-'r'ria;he', N. V.
~ifcs  ab  A-   idnrr     of   (rDtauiY    o  rb~it,

Wanr, perusing this capital book, the reader seems transported to the very scenes
of the reckless Duval's unrivalled exploits. He sees the dismal, silent heath-the gold-
'aden traveler--the dashing Claude, borne like a whirl-wind by his fiery horse, foam-
flecked and bloody with spurring. He nears the sharp ring of the nistol-shot--sees a body
fall and a few minutes after, Duval canters carelessly away, to sperst his aeariy-won
gold upon wine and women.
Copier wqiledd to e  prt of the Un.ed States, otm receipt of 25 cents, addressed to
GARRETT &amp; 00., 18 ANN-STREET, N. V.

'   ublished, "ROMANTIC 1BCIDENTS IN THE LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND.
By the Autnor of "Amy Lawrence," "Minnie Grey," &amp;c.

IN PAPER,50OCENTS;CLOTH,75CENTS.
FIRST AMERICAN EDITION OF THIS POPULAR WORK THAT SOLD IN GREAT BRITAIN TO TIB
EXTENT OF TWENTY THOUSAND COPIES.
OP I5N01  OP TH    ENGLISH     PRESS.
"An amusing collection of characteristic tales and sketches that we think iatbitely superior to many
of Sam Slick's similar efforts "--London Times.
'" Mr. hloward Paul. who has distinsguishied himself In London by his "American Magazfne,"..has made
his appearance in a serial work devoted to the lmning of American character, scenes and Incidents-
all of the sketches in which are by the same facile hand. We can especially reccommend these chap-
ters of pleasantry to our readers."-Livepo' Mercury.
heardd Paul's volume, with John Leech's funny cnricatures, is droll and answers the purpose--to
make the public laugh and he merry.- Vivian, in London Leader.
NEW-YORK:
GA1RRETT &amp; CO., PUBLISHERR, 18 ANN-ST.
Nearly   ready    " Mue. PATINGTON's CAlrr Bio 01A O         Ur." cpnt'i lig aver
Bundrea ana Fifty Wood cus.

I

....

BY HOWARD PAUL, ESQ.
afs&amp; ,


LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF DISK CLINTON.
THE MASKED HIGHWAYM&amp;N.
This is ta remarkable work, which fixes and enchalns the attention of the render, fromt the first page te
the lxst. All the wild, daring ttiol lashii sance of robber life, from the most pertlnuiin ex atonialxin adv'ert-
tures on the highway, to the niust carting and curious lntildintt it} the botiers of love, Ire portrayeud by the
author with a vliixenas of dx' eripin t h=t his never been exeled, eidher in dhe pigt of Atnsworth er Rey-"
noltin Therei fin  to in lh ick ' i   rf'ieve :tgret'ibli the %tnrtlngi inclttet twith which it aboitds
Cpis a 1y{ e n~eih  1 25cee(Ais        X1IE!" &amp;t, CO., Aitn-stree4, N. 1'.
THELIFE OF NED SCtARLET5
THE DARING HIGHWAYMAN
BY TIHl AUTHOR OF "DICK CLINTON," "DICK TUPIN " TC
lii
F                     \3 ME
Thus is $ lively, dashing work-the record of the marvelous deeds of one whose romantic advettares and
dasam   plotts on the highway, throw even the feats of the celebrated TPurple and lihvai far into the shade
It is the liveiest, most piquant, and thrilling narrative ever published.
SCeipies of this work wilt be mailed to any part of the United Matites, inn the receipt of Sri cents, poet
paid. Address
GARRET &amp; CO., PUBLIBHZRB,                    I
amenna18 Ana-street, New unoak.

I

I

'a


                                                          
             
         
       
   
