
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Ralph Runnion, or, The Outlaw's Doom .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6941
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               RALPH RUNNION; 
               OR THE OUTLAW'S DOOM. 
               A ROMANCE OF THE REVOLUTION 
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER, 121 NASSAU STREET.
             
             
            ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by H. LONG & BROTHER, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I The Hut and its Inmates 5
                
               CHAPTER II. A Man without a Heart 10
                
               CHAPTER III. Trading with the Indians 14
                
               CHAPTER IV. The wounded Man-The Forest Flower 19
                
               CHAPTER V. Wild Medicine 26
                
               CHAPTER VI. Life at the Hut in the Wood 32
                
               CHAPTER VII. Ralph Runnion-The Abductor 38
                
               CHAPTER VIII. The Ambuscade 44
                
               CHAPTER IX. Vengeance 49
                
               CHAPTER X. The Stakes-The Unexpected Deliverance 57
                
               CHAPTER XI. The Captive-The Hut of the Renegade 64
                
                
               CHAPTER XII Lamentations-New Arrivals-Scheming 69
                
               CHAPTER XIII. Escape of Jeanette-Recapture 75
                
               CHAPTER XIV. A Prisoner-Fruitless Search-Escape 80
                
               CHAPTER XV. Life at the Port 87
                
               CHAPTER XVI. The Escape-Re-union 92
                
               CHAPTER XVII. The Unexpected Meeting 98
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. The Final Settlement-A New Feature 102
                
               CHAPTER XIX. The Trial-Sentence-And Execution 108
                
               CHAPTER XX. The Attack and Repulse-Strange Meetings-Explanations-Conclusion 113
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Ralph Runnion, or, The outlaw's doom 
            RALPH RUNNION: OR, THE OUTLAW'S DOOM. 
             
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE HUT AND ITS INMATES. 
               EARLY in the forenoon of a fine day, in the spring of the year 1778, a young man was riding leisurely along through the woods that hedged in, on one side, one of the lakes of northern New York, apparently absorbed in reflection. 
               He was clad in plain citizen's dress, and rode his charger both firmly and gracefully. Occasionally he removed his cap from his head, to allow the cool breeze that swept through the intertwisted boughs to fall refreshingly upon his temples. At times, too, he made a half gesture with his bridle hand, accompanying the motion with a few undistinguishable syllables. 
               His face was alive with expression. His eyes were a deep, dark gray, that rolled one side and the other of his narrow path, and burned with the fires of turbid and passionate thought. Dark and well-defined eyebrows were arched beneath an ample and highly intellectual forehead, and were ever and anon knit and compressed as in a secret and mental agony. His lips, too, were often tightly held together, betraying the turbulence of his spirits. Yet the whole impression a chance beholder would have received, would have been one of great partiality for him. To add to the whole, his figure was graceful, manly, and vigorous. 
               He muttered in broken syllables, as he rode on, still carrying his cap in his hand. The influence of the atmosphere was almost heavenly upon him. It was working its way unquestionably to his heart. It sent the blood in a calmer, steadier, less perturbed flow through his veins, subduing the fiery heat of his youthful pulses, soothing the irregular and too intensive action of his brain, and gently relaxing his muscular system till he at length seemed to ride along almost regardless of every thing around him. 
                
               His horse finally changed his gait to a slow walk. The animal had almost free use of the bit, yet seemed nowise anxious to take advantage of his license. His spirits appeared, in truth, to have become similarly quieted with those of his rider. He kept his head downwards, snuffing up the scented woodland gales, and snorting with a loud chain of echoes for the pleasure he received. 
               Altogether, it was a fine picture-both steed and rider; the former, careless and quiet; the latter, absorbed in the dreamy mazes of a sweet reverie. The sun was climbing up into the sky, flooding the almost impenetrable forest with light. Odors from a million flowers sailed down the woodland aisles in huge drifts and eddies; and the music of a thousand birds peopled the unseen and untold thickets with joyous and irrepressible melody. The very air seemed full of life, and lent elasticity and vigor to the lungs. Not alone were the voices, the melodies, the scenes, or the air, the sources of enjoyment; these dwelt rather in the grand and mysterious influences that pervaded and unfolded all. 
               Unconsciously the young man looked up to the sky. At the same instant the sharp crack of a rifle echoed from a distant quarter of the forest, and a ball whizzed past him, just cutting the edge of his shoulder. 
               His horse on the moment lashed his ears to his head, and with a wild snort, and a terrific plunge, that nearly unseated his rider, set out at a fearful rate through the solitude. The young man recovered himself in his saddle just in time to see the mad career upon which his steed had started, holding the bit completely in his own ungovernable power, bending his proud head down earthward, and lashing his flanks swiftly with his long tail. To attempt to curb him at such an extremity would have been both foolish and fruitless. And to add greatly to the animal's fright, a shrill and fierce cry rang through the woods, that gave the steed only a double impulse. The fearful cry curdled the blood in the young man's veins. 
               For a time he made no effort to restrain the impetuous career of the affrighted animal. He felt anxious to put as great a distance between himself and his unseen foe as possible. The bushes parted and swiftly closed together again, as the horse pushed madly forward. The dried boughs snapped and cracked quickly beneath his rapid feet. And above all sounds, still was heard that wild snort of fear echoing strangely through the deep and darksome forest. 
               Presently the self-possession of the rider began to return again. He clung tightly to his steed, talking to him in soothing syllables, and calling upon his name-"Sancho! Sancho!" But the animal too well knew what the safety of his young master was worth, to dally at such a moment with his fate. He seemed not to heed the sound of his voice at all, but swept fiercely and uncontrollably onward. 
               "Sancho! Poor Sancho! Steady-steady, Sancho!" he kept speaking to him. 
               But still the horse bore him on, he knew not whither. 
               Before he could have seen where his steed would carry him, he found himself suddenly brought up before the door of a small hut, or cabin, altogether surrounded with trees, and with scarce a vestige of civilization around it. The door was open, and he proceeded to dismount, praising in his heart, as he did so, the sagacity and tried faithfulness of his valuable animal. 
               The instant he turned to dismount, he glanced at his shoulder and discovered plentiful stains of blood. The wound, which, in his momentary excitement, he had not as yet felt, was now bleeding quite freely. Holding, therefore, the bridle in his hand, he advanced to the door. 
               He might have stepped across the threshold and demanded admittance and assistance, had not his eyes first fell upon the figure of a young girl, who stood half-fearfully contemplating his approach. 
               Bowing low and respectfully to her, he pointed to his wounded shoulder, and asked- 
               "Can you not give me some water? I am wounded." 
               She shuddered as her eyes caught sight of the flowing blood, and instantly hastened to bring water in a gourd from the little spring that welled up in the thicket close by. He could not refrain from examining the gracefulness and charming simplicity of her manners. His eyes followed her until she was lost from his sight in the dense foliage. And when she returned again, his hand refused to take the proffered vessel until he had surveyed her over and over again. 
               So charming and so ethereal a vision in the far-off wilds of an almost impenetrable forest, amazed him beyond the power of speech to describe his emotions. It was like a jewel in a heap of dross. He was lost in the contemplation of her beauty. 
               She handed the water to him again, even pressing it upon his acceptance. This time he awaked from his dream, and received it from her hand. 
               "Many thanks, fair maid-many thanks for this refreshing draught!" he said to her, as he took the gourd by the handle. "I know not, in truth, what might have become of me but for this act of your kindness." 
               She slightly courtesied to him, in acknowledgment of his polite thanks. 
               And before the young man himself raised the revivifying draught to his lips, he paused yet once more to contemplate the inimitable loveliness of the wild-wood maiden. 
               She stood before him in all the beauty of youth and simplicity. Her dress was common and faded, yet betraying abundant evidences of neatness and good taste. Her face was a mirror for dreams. A brilliant blue eye, soft yet sparkling, spoke at once to his heart. Her lips were ruby-red, beautifully arched, and invitingly ripe and luscious. Her forehead was broad, full, and snowy, over and about which was a luxuriance of dark auburn hair that was rolled back in waves from her fair temples, and then clustered in a wreath of curls upon her neck and shoulders. 
               While he regarded her with such mute worship, her eyes were cast modestly down upon the floor. Naturally enough his own followed the direction of hers, only to espy a remarkably small foot creeping slily out from the fold of her garment. He was carried away with the contemplation of her. 
               He drank off a large quantity of the cool water, and asked permission to sit down for a short time-a privilege she had no hesitation in granting. Following up his inclination to hold a conversation with her, he began with narrating his strange adventure in the forest but a short time before, and his miraculous escape. She naturally enough united her native sympathies with his suffering, and the dangers to which he had been cruelly subjected, and it took but a few moments thereafter to complete the acquaintance between them. 
               She soon sat down by him, and in a perfectly unconstrained and artless manner assisted him to remove his coat, while with her own delicate hands she washed the bleeding wound, and afterwards carefully bandaged it with a piece of linen he was able to produce from his portmanteau. And when at length all was completed, she began in her childlike manner to acquaint him with the peril of travelling in those regions unaccompanied with others. She did not indulge her curiosity so far, however, as to inquire the nature of his business in a quarter so remote from civilization, nor to wonder where he came from and whither he could be going. She cared not to know of such things. A young and strikingly handsome stranger had come to her home badly wounded, and the commonest instincts of her nature impelled her to proffer him her small assistance. 
               While he still sat on the low, cushioned bench, his eyes fell next to roving about the room. The apartment was confined and illy lighted. But little furniture was visible, and that of a coarse and necessary character. A piece of a broken mirror was fastened to an opposite wall, beneath which was a small table. On this table were a Bible, and a volume of Shakspeare-both of them well thumbed, and stained, and tattered. There was nothing like a carpet to the floor. Only a couple of rough chairs were visible in the apartment, a long bench, and a low stool. A large cat sat purring just within the shadow of one of the angles, occasionally rolling up its glaring eyes at the youthful stranger. 
               He could not help losing himself in wonder, to find so fair a plant hidden in such a spot. He would have asked her who she was; how long she had lived there; what her object could have been in consenting to come to such a place; and a score of similar questions. There was a mystery living in her very presence, and it had almost unsealed his lips to break it. 
               At length growing weary and faint, he requested the privilege of stretching himself out upon the bench on which he sat. To this she gladly gave her assent. Accordingly he laid himself down, while she prepared a cushion for his head, which she placed with care beneath it. There resting his wearied limbs, he fell into a gentle slumber, from which he did not for a long time awake. 
               While he still slept, a man approached the cabin. Seeing a horse standing but a few paces from the door, quietly grazing, he at first came up cautiously, balancing his rifle in his hands, and cocking it as for instant use. But whatever might have been his fears, they were at once put to rest by the sight of the girl, who, espying the man from the door, hastened out to meet him, in order to give him a timely account of the incident that had but a short time before befallen them. 
               "Father! father!" said she, laying her finger across her lips to enjoin silence upon him. 
               The man stood still where he was. 
               "He is asleep!" said the girl; "I beg you, don't wake him!" 
                
               "Asleep!" exclaimed he, in a guttural tone; "who's asleep! Whose animal is that, I'd like to know?" 
               "Now don't be angry with me, father! Don't go and-" 
               "But whose horse is that, I ask you?" he interrupted her. 
               "I don't know, indeed, father," she answered, dropping her eyes to the ground. 
               "Don't know! Don't know, girl!" exclaimed he. "But who came with it?" 
               "He's in the hut now," said the girl. 
               "Yes, but who is in the hut?" he persisted, looking both suspiciously and fiercely upon her. 
               "I'm sure I don't know, father," she replied, meekly. "Do you come and see who it is yourself." 
               "Yes, that I will," he fiercely said, while he began to stride towards the door of the cabin. 
               "Stay! stay a moment!" she pleaded, putting up her outspread hands upon his breast, and seeking to hold him back. "He is asleep. I would not have him awaked. He has been wounded, and came to this place for assistance." 
               These were the only words that the rough man caught, as he pushed hastily past her and reached the door of his hut. 
               The first thing that caught his fierce eyes was the sleeping form of the young man, whose coat had been carefully thrown about his shoulders by the thoughtful girl, and whose face was pallid with weakness. Seeing at a glance that he had nothing personally to fear from such an opponent, if such he should prove himself at length to be, his fierceness greatly mollified; and he at length turned himself about to propound more questions to his daughter respecting the unexpected occurrence. 
               They stood just without the door; and had the stranger been awake, he would have found no difficulty in overhearing every syllable that was uttered. The man's eyes ran from his daughter to the grazing horse, eagerly drinking in every sign that he could read in connection with so strange a visit. His mind was yet quite unsettled about the matter; as if, even if he did not couple the girl with any suspicions, there might yet be lurking some secret mischief in the adventure. 
               What the grounds of the man's suspicions and fears might have been, the reader will most likely learn before he shall have concluded this narrative. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A MAN WITHOUT A HEART. 
               MR. JAMES GRANDISON was a merchant in the city of New York. He was of immediate English descent, of highly respectable parentage, and had years before embarked in a successful trade in the growing metropolis. 
               For a long time he had been in the habit of making frequent excursions into the Indian territories from the city, carrying always with him large quantities of pelf, for which he made exchange in the wealth the Indians freely offered him; and in this mode, perhaps more than any other, he had accumulated a considerable fortune. 
               There had long been told strange stories respecting this Mr. James Grandison among his neighbors; how that the Evil one, with whom he was seriously supposed to enjoy an intimate acquaintance, had, in a moment of bad temper, carried off much of his money, and robbed him of an only child in addition; how that ghost took off his wife's soul, leaving him only a shrivelled, worn-out body in its stead; and how that he wandered over his creaking chambers every night, fearing that his money would in some mysterious manner be taken from him; or that unseen visitants would enter and make havoc with himself. Everybody called him a miserable sort of a man; and miserable he certainly seemed to be. 
               But there was one story told of him that fixed his character firmly in popular opinion; and it was, as near as may be, as follows: 
               There was a poor mechanic in the city-a man who worked hard for his subsistence, and ate his bread only after much sweat of his brow. His name was Miles Morton. He lived in a miserable little shelter with his family, and hardly managed to pay his rent as the year rolled round. And James Grandison, too, was his landlord. 
               As time passed on, the poor and laborious mechanic grew gradually in his landlord's debt. The rent was behind. The poor man dared not face the account, and lay awake nights for thinking of the wretchedness it caused him. He wrought at his trade early and late. He was up before the sun, and the sound of his hammer and saw was heard often till late into the night. But it seemed all useless. His rent still kept gathering upon his shoulders, and his nights became shorter, and fuller of watchfulness and anxiety. 
               At length, to increase the poor man's troubles as much as possible, both his wife and son fell dangerously sick; insomuch that he had but little time left from watching and tending them to devote to his labors; and the rent then rolled up faster and more fearfully, and his heart grew more desolate and sad. His landlord, seeing how poorly off he had suddenly grown, and keeping the record of his debt ever alive in his memory, now began to exercise more than ordinary vigilance; and at once fell to upbraiding him with inattention to his business. Every other affliction and wrong the poor man felt himself able to endure but this. He knew too well for himself what long and anxious hours of fruitless labor he had passed, and could but poorly bear to be accused of that of which he felt himself so completely innocent. 
               Accordingly, to the taunting words of the covetous and hard-hearted landlord he retorted words equally biting, and severe. A sharp quarrel instantly sprang up between them. The landlord demanded his rent arrears at once. The poor mechanic replied that he must wait for it until his family troubles had so far diminished as to allow him to return to his steady labor. And the cruel landlord, as he turned away from his tenant, cursed him for a lazy, worthless dog, and swore that he would "have the law on him," until the last farthing was paid. 
               All this was years before the date of our story. 
               But, as matters turned out, the boy died in a few days afterward, leaving Miles Morton childless. His wife lay sick beneath the same roof, and to her he hardly dared to communicate the mournful intelligence. He was doomed to bear all his grief close and without sympathy. He wept for his youthful boy as no other father could have wept. And just at night, too, he stole softly away to his work-shop, where he labored until a late hour in making a coffin for his child. 
               Early the next day, after passing a sleepless night, he broke the sad news of their boy's death to his wife. She received the intelligence with calmness and composure, bowing her head on her pillow, and exclaiming- 
               "Oh God! Thy will be done!" 
               By the middle of the forenoon, the boy lay in his rude coffin. A few of the poor man's acquaintances had assembled in the little room where the corpse lay, silently regarding the solemn scene, and heartily sympathizing with the distressed parents at their sudden loss. Tears suffused all eyes, and deep sobs and sighs were heard from many a breast. The room was undisturbed by so much as the sound of a single voice. 
               Presently there were heard heavy and frequent footsteps upon the creaking stairs. All eyes were instantly turned towards the door, which immediately opened. Three men entered. 
               One of them was James Grandison, the landlord! 
               "Miles," said he, addressing his tenant in a loud and ferocious tone, "are you ready to pay me my rent now?" 
               "Mr. Grandison," calmly replied the tenant, folding his arms across his manly breast- 
               "As few words as may be, Miles," interrupted the grasping owner. 
               "Mr. Grandison," persisted the tenant, "you see to what a place you have come?" 
               "Most certainly I do," said he, "and you see, too, what I have come for. So don't give me any unnecessary trouble at such a time as this." 
               "See! Look there!" exclaimed the wretched man, taking violent hold upon the landlord's arm, and leading him by force up to the side of the box he had made for a coffin for his darling child; "do you see that? Do you know what I have suffered? Do you know how my poor heart has been so lately bereaved? Know you anything of such sufferings as this? And have you come to the house of mourning to enforce the collection of a debt I have long been laboring, even against fate, to pay? Are you here to add fresh wounds to a heart already bleeding at every pore?" 
               "Miles Morton!" sternly interrupted his landlord, seeing the pitch of excitement to which he was fast tending-"Miles Morton, I want to hear none of your appeals. Your words may be all well enough where there's nothing but sympathy in the case; but, as I live, they are nothing to me. They won't go to pay up your rent arrears. I have come to collect that!" 
               "Is your nature so cruel, then," still persisted the agonized mechanic, "as that you would invade such a place as this-so sacred to the holiest, and best, and tenderest of feelings-and yet not experience a pang of remorse? Can you come to add to my deep grief? Would you heap fires of desolation upon my heart? Can nothing satisfy you but this? Because I owe you money, which I freely confess, and which I most certainly mean at the earliest day to pay, will you take advantage of my present misfortunes to drive the iron still deeper into my soul?" 
               "Fool!" muttered Grandison, between his set teeth. "Think you I come here with a couple of men to hear a lecture read to me by you? Do you so readily forget the wide waste of difference that lies between us? Do you not know that I am rich, while you are poor?-that I am landlord, and you only a tenant?" 
               "God knows I shall never be allowed to forget so wretched a relation!" responded the poor man. "Yet my poverty is my only fault. And I am not to blame for that, either. It is, at least, honest poverty. There is no stain of dishonor upon it!" 
               These words were immediately followed by a general gaze at the face of Mr. Grandison from the eyes of the entire little assembly. They looked at him as if they thought that he had received a severe and well-deserved rebuke from the lips of his humble tenant. 
               However well meant the speech might have been, it was evident that its effect was widely different from what had been intended, or from what could have been foreseen. The words only stung the heart of his landlord deeply. His spirit was exasperated almost beyond control. He raised himself suddenly to his full height, and said at the top of his voice, his eyes flashing fire as he spoke- 
               "Villain! wretch! You insult me under my own roof! Dearly shall you pay for it! You have dared me, and I will show you my strength! Officers, do your duty!" 
               At once the two men whom he had brought with him, stepped forward, and the foremost one of them proceeded to read to the unhappy man an execution that had only a few hours before been made out against him. As soon as this formality was fairly over, they both laid hold firmly upon the coffin in which the child was laid, and assured the parent that the body would be seized to satisfy the execution!
                
               Language is poor indeed, to essay a description of the stricken man's feelings, as these fatal words fell upon his ears. He threw himself upon the coffin, winding his arms affectionately, yet powerfully, about it, and broke forth in expressions of lamentation and deep distress. 
               "For the love of God!" pleaded he, "do but spare me this trial! My heart will break! I cannot bear up under it! I cannot-cannot-cannot not! Leave me only my dead! Take me; take aught else I have; only leave me my dead to bury in peace!" 
               "Seize the body!" ordered the cruel-hearted landlord, fearing the officers were about to relent, in consequence of their sympathy; "seize it and bear it away! I must have my money! I cannot help death. It is nothing to me. Death ought not to stand in the way of a man's debt. The law justly gives me this body, and I will take it." 
               "Mr. Grandison," spoke the poor man once more, "will you still hear me? Will you take my written promise that the debt shall be paid within a single week, and so give me up my boy?" 
               "No-no; I will hear no more!" brutally replied the landlord. "Take away the body!" 
               Forthwith the two officers proceeded to unlock the arms of the parent from the rough coffin, and carried it out in their hands. The assembly was stricken with a deep terror that rendered them speechless. They beheld this soul-harrowing sight, but could say or do nothing to prevent it. 
               As soon as the corpse was removed from the room, Miles Morton, who had now removed to a distant corner of the apartment, advanced a few paces towards the creditor, and addressed him in these passionate words:- 
               "You now are satisfied of your debt! You have rendered my heart desolate! So shall your heart be desolate when the years come round! You are childless; so shall you ever be! A curse rest on you forever! A curse on all your offspring! They shall never live to bless you! They shall only make your desolate heart still more desolate! A curse on you always! A curse follow you from morning till night, and haunt your terrible dreams all through the long hours of darkness! You shall think to be blessed, and your blessing shall turn into living curses! In your very happiness shall you become miserable! A long line of darkness shall lie upon your future life! You shall see no sunlight, as other people see it! The light of the day shall be as night to you! You shall become beggared, and you shall be a wanderer!" 
               The heart of every one present was sensibly touched by this appeal. The landlord himself quailed beneath the power of the strange words. All eyes were directed to the speaker. His face was perfectly livid with passion. The big veins had swollen to the size of cords in his high temples, and knotted themselves until they were frightful to behold. He was drawn up to an unusual stature, and his words seemed to have been fulminated against his oppressor, as from the lips of some superior being. 
               Mr. Grandison turned to go away. The eyes of the poor man followed him closely. It seemed as if they must pierce him through and through. Their expression was so intense that it was absolutely terrible. 
               As the landlord walked after the officers down the crazy stairs, he muttered to himself an anathema on all poor men, and cursed his fate that his business had ever compelled him to have any connection with them. He solaced his heart with the thought that he had at last got his money, and felt that his errand had therefore not been altogether fruitless. 
               And the sundering of sacred ties-the cruel and heartless rupture of holy feelings-the breaking-up of old associations-the adding agony to agony already grown almost unendurable-and the savage disregard of all those humanities that belong but to our common nature-these were nothing thought of by him! So he but received his money, the whole of it, to the uttermost farthing, he was satisfied. He cared not for the poor man's idle curses; they were but breaths to him. They had no meaning. Their force was spent with the utterance. And this was the man of avarice-of covetous desire-of property-and of cruel wrong! To be sure, the law did allow him a corpse wherewith to satisfy his execution; but it gave him no right to tear open afresh the deep wounds of his poor debtor's heart. It did not allow him to invade the sanctity of the household, and plunder even the dear and precious articles of wealth therefrom, that most truly enriched it. 
               The story was ended, as might reasonably have been expected, by the death of the debtor's wife. In her feeble condition she could but illy bear such recurring griefs; and the cruelty that was superadded, did not fail to finish the work that sickness and disease had begun. 
               In less than a week she was dead. 
               The poor mechanic was thus stripped of all. His wife was taken from him; his child-ah! but he could not endure the thought that would always follow. Before long, he had deserted the roof that protected him, and nothing further was known of him. He was, however, believed to be dead by all his old acquaintances. They thought that his griefs had driven him away, only that he might die unmolested and unknown among strangers. 
               Such was the character of James Grandison. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               TRADING WITH THE INDIANS. 
               MR. GRANDISON had always employed an agent, to whom he entrusted much of his business with the Indians, going himself but twice a year among them in order to keep alive the friendship he had formed. At such periods of absence no one pretended to know where he had gone, or what was the nature of the business he was called to transact. He was at great pains to keep up the mystery that had always rested upon his movements. 
               He was in his store late in the evening of a springy day of the year when our story begins, closeted with a rough looking stranger. 
               The stranger was a man of an exceedingly sinister expression, with a low and vicious looking forehead; a huge stock of coarse hair; limbs that were lank and unwieldly; and hands of marvellous size and apparent strength. He looked inquisitively about him, regarding every object upon which his eyes fell with close scrutiny. 
               In years he seemed not to have become very far advanced-his age not being much more or less than thirty: rather less, perhaps, than more. His eyes were small, and given to no particular expression; betraying not a trait like candor, or truthfulness, or trust. He kept his mouth hung partially open much of the time; as if he either thought it too much an effort to keep it shut, or else despised from his heart the rules of social life that might reflect with some severity upon so disgusting a habit. 
               If you looked him carefully in the face, he presented the appearance of the most stolid, soulless creature in the world. You could not have read a decided thought in his features. Carelessness, or indifference, or brutishness, seemed to have absorbed, or sunk, every other quality. His eye was scarcely wide enough to allow others to look into it; yet sufficiently so to permit him a sight of every thing about him. And he sat on an old wooden bench in Grandison's darkened store, gazing listlessly about the apartment, his lower lip hanging down, and his fingers vigorously engaged in drumming on either side of him. 
               "What do you think you can take next?" was the question of Mr. Grandison. "Just say what you think will sell best." 
               The stranger rose instantly to his feet, and crossed the floor. Running his eyes listlessly over a few shelves of bright prints, he asked to have a few of them selected, together with a few pounds of bullets. These were for the Indian trade. The squaws would buy the bright-colored calicoes, and the polished leaden bullets always found a good market with the males. 
               The articles mentioned were at once selected by Mr. Grandison from his store, to which he likewise added such others as he was disposed. Taking a candle in his hand, he next filled a few kegs with liquor, and packed the entire selection safely and most conveniently for their long voyage. 
               The two men then jovially pledged each the other's health in a brimming vessel of the liquid, after which they sat down for a brief business conversation together. Grandison desired the stranger to assure his Indian friends that he should be with them by the early autumn, at which time he would bring them many valuable and acceptable presents. The stranger went through with a narration of the trials and toils of the past season among the backwoods people, taking care always to set off his own dangers and exertions to the best possible account. 
               He spoke of the increased difficulties that then existed in getting goods to the far-off settlers, in consequence of the continuance of the war. The Indians, he said, were nearly all interested in it, and, unless he was particularly wary, he feared least his life might become a sacrifice at their hands. They had been hired to hate and fight all Americans alike and it was next to impossible to assure them that he was not engaged on their side in the immediate rebellion. 
               It was not till long after midnight that he started from the store on his journey. He knew where to go to take a vessel that was going up the river before daylight that day, and Mr. Grandison accompanied him to the wharf. A porter was engaged at a large price, and under an injunction of secrecy, to assist them in transporting their goods to the vessel; and are long the sails were hoisted, the cable slipped, and the agent was slowly drifting off into the stream. 
               Sir Henry Clinton at this time had possession of the city of New York, with his army. Of course, therefore, all Americans who remained behind after the evacuation, had taken the oath of allegiance to Britain, forsworn their native country, and pledged themselves to quiet conduct and citizenship. Under these circumstances, their persons and property were generally quite as much protected by the military authorities, as if they were in reality and by birth free subjects of King George. 
               Among those who staid behind was James Grandison. He had been with the foremost in swearing allegiance to the new power, and even had made himself quite conspicuous by engaging to do what might be in his power to advance the royal interests. In consequence, he was not only allowed to trade as usual, but he was likewise protected in his increasing traffic with the Indians. Whenever an opportunity offered for him to ship a quantity of stores to his agents in their territory, he was apprised of it, and every facility was additionally offered him to advance the interests of his trade. 
               In three days, after beating about upon the river to but little purpose, the agent, of whom we have given a description, landed on the west bank under cover of night, intending to proceed on his way. 
               He had scarcely landed, and the boat that conveyed him from the vessel had barely put off from the shore again, when his ears were saluted by a low and almost indistinct guttural sound, in a language that few could have so readily understood. 
               "Oneko!" called he, in a voice correspondingly low. 
               Instantly a human form stood forth from the parted thicket, and called the young man by name in reply- 
               "John Topliff!" 
               "Ho! Then you're here?" asked the latter. 
               "Indian never fail," replied the mysterious being thus accosted. "Indian's word more than pale face's word. Oneko say he come; Oneko come. What more?" 
               "Sure, you're pretty faithful, I guess," said Topliff, trying a little flattery with him. "How long have you been here, Oneko?" 
               "Indian no break his word." 
               "I know that well enough," quickly interrupted Topliff. "I don't accuse you of lyin', or stealin'; I only asked you how long you had been here!" 
               "Oneko been in this cove now since the stars went out last night," said the being spoken to. "No moon shines to-night. Every thing dark. The water still. No swash on the shore. Oneko wait here and count till John Topliff come." 
               "Well, old fellow," said the latter, "you've been faithful, anyhow; now, if you would like it, I'll give you something to warm your heart, and then we'll march on." 
               The agent forthwith made preparation to get out some of the rum he had brought with him, of which he gave his companion a moderate draught. 
               This the fellow immediately drank off at a draught, as if he had already begun to sell his native pride and independence to that fell spirit that has since made such havoc with the valiant red men. Adding to this a small portion of food, he announced himself ready to begin the journey contemplated. 
               In less than half an hour, therefore, after the landing was effected, John Topliff was marching beneath a heavy burden through the trackless forests, guided by the unerring skill of his Indian companion. They journeyed on till daylight before they halted, Then they sat down under a large tree that crowned a lofty height, where the time was passed in eating drinking, and speculation upon the results of the trip. 
               Several times the Indian climbed to the highest branches of the tree, to make a scrutinizing survey of the country around him. On one side his glistening eye caught sight of the mighty Hudson, rolling majestically onward to the restless ocean. It swept along like a huge serpent; uncoiling itself gradually each moment; glistening with its scales in the sun, and breaking down a wide pathway through the dense forests and between lofty hills. Even the Indian's eye, accustomed as it ever had been to such grand scenes, kindled anew with the sense of beauty and grandeur that for the moment possessed his soul. 
               All around him, elsewhere, was an interminable forest. He saw signs of civilization nowhere. There was no thin blue smoke rolling and curling lazily upward from chimney-throats to the bluer sky. There were no broad meadows, whose uncounted acres were just growing up with maturing vegetation. No lines of railways, with snake-like trains of carriages gliding swiftly from his sight. No canals, on whose bosoms was annually borne the vast wealth of a new and virgin soil. The Indian only looked about him in silence; and his thoughts brooded sadly and silently over what he saw. 
               As he finally descended from the watch-tower, his appearance was so striking that it deserves a passing description at our hands. 
               In stature he was quite six feet. His figure was straight, well formed, and remarkable for nothing so much as an appearance of agility. His face was of a copper color, with inordinately high cheek bones, and with generally small features. His eyes most certainly were quite diminutive, as if he was compelled to make not a little exertion in order to use them to advantage. But little hair was on his head, and that was black, long, and straight. 
               His entire expression was that of decided shrewdness and cunning. He leered, rather than looked. His glance was askance, and full of suspiciousness. Broad shoulders were firmly set upon his trunk, and the swing of his arm was like the sweep of a swift arrow. It was full of vigor and muscularity. 
               About his body he wore only a loose hunting-frock, made of animals' skins thoroughly tanned and stretched, which was bound to his waist by a girdle or strap of the same material. Into this belt was stuck a huge knife, whose use might not have been either kindly or infrequent. 
               Upon his legs were stretched skins of some wild animal, perhaps of the buck, into whose seams were carefully stitched rows of beads, buttons, and other superfluous trinkets. They were manifestly the source of much delight to him, as ever and anon he stooped down to examine them more closely; at which time, too, his countenance assumed an expression of marked satisfaction and pleasure. These leggins, which were sedulously confined by thongs of the same material, served to set off to admirable advantage the wonderful symmetry and strength of his nether limbs; a fact of which the Indian himself seemed nowise forgetful. 
               As he stood up beneath the noble tree from which he had just descended, his bearing was peculiarly lofty and noble. One would involuntarily have set him down as one of the original lords of the forest. His form was lithe and strong together. He seemed capable of enduring all fatigue, and all manner of trial. He was as unerring as a compass in the silent depths of the trackless forest; and his feet were swift as the deer's in a race for safety. Yet cowardice nowhere lurked about him. It did not betray its existence in a single feature of his striking countenance. 
               "Have you rested all you want, Oneko?" asked John Topliff, at last, when he had put away the last fragment of their morning meal, and began to proceed with packing together his various traps again. "Rested enough, eh?" 
               "Oneko never need rest," returned the Indian, in a manner that strangely combined simplicity of speech with real dignity. "Oneko never tired!" 
               "Never tired, eh?" 
               "No, John Topliff," replied the Indian again. "Me never need rest. Indian travel all through the sunlight and starlight. No moon-no track. Oneko always find his way. Oneko fresh as the deer in the morning. Ugh! ugh!" ejaculated he, in that strange guttural tone peculiar to the Indian race. "John Topliff no keep up with Oneko." 
               "Can't, hey?" questioned the trader, still busying himself intently over his articles of traffic. 
               "Pale face fall down for no strength," continued the Indian, "and red man pass him by. No keep up by Indian. His foot is swift as the hunted deer. His path swift as eagle. No keep by the side of the Indian." 
               "Wal; then you're ready, are ye?" again spoke the trader, whose mind had been upon nothing but the packing of his goods, which he had now completed. He straightened out his bent back slowly, and again remarked, giving his syllables an inimitable twang- 
               "If you're ready, then I am." 
               Oneko only slapped his breast vigorously with his open palm, and replied- 
               "Come!" 
               They divided their load about equally between themselves, shouldering their packs, and marched silently on. The trusty Indian led the way. 
               Their journey continued thus through the forest for many days. They always chose portions of the day in which to rest, travelling on at night at as rapid a pace as the nature of the ground would allow. The superior sagacity of the Indian led him to follow closely the courses of the streams, that by this means their obstacles might naturally be very much fewer, and thus they were able to make much faster time than if the country had been gone over entirely at random. 
               At the expiration of the limited number of days, they discovered signs of a neighboring encampment, and halted to prepare themselves for going in. John Topliff drew out his goods and exhibited them to the covetous eyes of his companion, from which he made a liberal present for his faithfulness. He then set himself about re-arranging them, in order to present them with the greatest possible effect to the wondering eyes of the squaws. 
               All this consumed some time; after which, they again refreshed themselves with some of the rum he brought, and rose to complete their journey. 
               It was just at the hour of sunset, that the trader and his Indian companion stood in the centre of an encampment, surrounded by wondering squaws and delighted braves. The articles brought were many of them readily disposed of; in payment for which Topliff received and carefully stowed away an abundance of the choicest skins, that easily found their way back to his master's hands, and turned to gold. 
               The scene was a highly picturesque and interesting one. It was long past twilight when the tired trader laid his head upon his skins, and fell sound asleep. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE WOUNDED MAN-THE FOREST FLOWER. 
               WHEN at length the young man awoke in the rude hut, he was not a little astonished to hear voices without the door; and he lay for some time anxiously listening to apprehend the topic of their conversation. 
               The syllables, however, were so low, that he could catch none of them with much distinctness. He could occasionally hear the word "stranger" pronounced; and something of wounds, and being shot at, and blood; but nothing farther. This, however, was quite sufficient to assure him that he was not omitted from their thoughts. 
               Suddenly he heard the footfall of a man upon the threshold; and his eyes at once turned in the direction of the door. 
               "You're awake, then?" questioned a deep, strong voice. 
               The gaze of the young man at once fell upon the form of his interrogator. 
               He was a person of quite forty years, and perhaps a trifle more. His countenance was indicative of a great degree of intelligence, and an equal degree of firmness. His eyes were large and alive with expression, while his forehead was broad and ample. He had a somewhat large mouth, whose outlines betrayed decisiveness and strength of purpose even to obstinacy. He stepped firmly across the floor, and accosted the young and unfortunate stranger with candor, yet with delicacy. But the man's refinement seemed rather to belong to his soul than to his manners. 
               The young man gave his questioner a silent look, that answered a better purpose than a verbal reply to his interrogation would have been. 
               The man began, therefore, again with him: 
                
               "How happened this misfortune? And how were you so lucky as to find the way here for assistance?" 
               "Surely, sir," replied the young man, raising his head upon his elbow, "it was an accident I could not by any possibility have foreseen." 
               "I think I understand that," interrupted the hardy woodsman. 
               "I was riding leisurely and abstractedly along through the woods, thinking of nothing so much as my old and dear friends, who never for a moment pass out of my memory, with the cool winds drawing down through the forest boughs upon my head, when I heard the sudden, sharp crack of a rifle, and felt the hissing of a ball, as it sped through the air past me." 
               "But you was wounded!" 
               "Ah, good sir, then you see my wound," replied he, glancing at the stains of blood upon his breast and shoulder; "indeed, it was but a slight wound. I felt it not until I reached your hospitable door. I did not even so much as mark the blood upon me." 
               "But how should you be so fortunate as to know the way here?" intently inquired the woodsman. 
               "I did not know it," said he. "I could not have been more surprised, if I had encountered a palace in these wilds, than I was to behold your hospitable and very welcome cabin." 
               "Then what brought you here?" persisted the man, now seating himself slowly in one of the chairs at hand. 
               "My horse, kind sir," replied the youth. 
               "Umph!" muttered the woodsman, as if he felt sure that the young stranger was now attempting to trifle with him. 
               "I see you do not understand me, sir," said the stranger. "Whenever my faithful animal gets into a pathless solitude like this with me, and is made to believe that some imminent danger is about to befall me, no power of mine can check his course. He always sets out at a frantic speed to the nearest place of safety. In this case, he pinned his ears close to his head, switching his flanks fiercely and swiftly with his tail, and set out with me at a truly fearful run. Trees flew past me like the careering winds. Bushes crackled, snapped, and gave way, as if no obstacles like them could impede his swift progress, even for a moment. He seemed winged. I had scarcely time to recover my seat, before he was far away from the scene of his original fright." 
               "But yours must be a truly remarkable animal," remarked the woodsman, hitching a little nearer to the wounded man, as he spoke. 
               "He certainly is, sir," replied he; and on the impulse, he called out twice, in a somewhat elevated voice- 
               "Sancho! Sancho!" 
               Immediately the sagacious horse set up one of his expressive neighs, to assure his wounded master of his propinquity. 
               "He will be showing his head at the door in a moment," added the young man. 
               "Perhaps he would have done it before now," interrupted the woodsman, "but I have secured him." 
               "Ah!" said the youthful rider of the animal; "then it's no fault of his own. I knew he would be here if he could. You see, sir, that he answered my call, didn't you?" 
                
               The woodsman bowed an assent of pleasure. It delighted him to discover so strong a bond of attachment between the intelligent brute and his master. 
               "It's but few," remarked the woodsman, "that know how to make a dumb creature love them; mighty few, indeed. I feel that the man must really be a good man at heart-that is, he can't be a bad man-who makes his beast love him so well as his own child." 
               The young man bowed thanks for this delicate compliment, and gradually suffered himself to subside into a state of half reverie over the many scenes of pleasure and peril he had gone through with his faithful steed. 
               "Then he found you the way here, did he?" broke forth the indweller of the cabin. "You couldn't have found the spot yourself, if you had been left to do it alone?" 
               "No, sir; and what is more, I should most probably have fared but poorly in the woods with those who attempted my murder, if I had had my own reins. The truth is, my horse knew what was for my safety better than I did. He brought me out of peril into a safe place." 
               "But what assurance have you that you are safe now?" asked the man, with a strangely wild twinkle of his eye. 
               "The assurance of a trusty heart and an honest face," replied the young man, stretching forth his hand towards the woodsman. 
               The latter instantly rose from his chair, and went to receive the friendly grasp proffered him. 
               "You have not mistaken me!" exclaimed he in a deep and husky voice, as he received the young man's hand. "You are safe here! No honest man need complain that he is ill treated in the lodge of Hugh Warnock! Henceforth let us be only friends! You may yet be in the way of doing me many a kindness, as the world makes such sudden revulsions with us all." 
               "I certainly shall be most glad to do any favor that may lie in my power," said the young man. 
               "Yet," continued the woodsman, "do not think that Hugh Warnock is selfish. What help I can offer you, is all freely yours. It can be but little, at the most. Do not think of me that I do an act of common humanity only for a reward, or a requital. I do not. I hope my soul is too far above such things. But as you are at present unfortunate, so shall you be well cared for by me. If ever I chance to be in a strait, you would not, I feel, hesitate a moment to befriend me to the extent of your power." 
               "God knows my grateful heart!" fervently replied the young man. "He knows I could never prove forgetful to the claims of common gratitude. If ever the occasion offers, you shall certainly not go unrewarded for your kindness." 
               The woodsman could not then offer more in return. He rose at once from his seat, and, advancing at once to the door, called upon the girl by name- 
               "Jeanette!" 
               She instantly responded to the summons, and arrived before the door. 
               "What a sweet name for so charming a girl!" inwardly ejaculated the young man. 
                
               "Here, Jeanette," said the man, "make haste to help me about making up the stranger a bed in my own room yonder. He has lain in that uncomfortable position already too long for his own good. He must be removed at once to a better couch than that." 
               The young man attempted to expostulate. 
               "I will not be the means of so much needless trouble to you," said he. "I come here a stranger, and you make me an honored guest. No, let me lie where I am." 
               "But it gives us no trouble to perform only what is our duty," replied the man, going straightway about his work. "You cannot lie well in that position. It will be the very worst one for your wound, and much serious harm may at length come of it. Only keep silence, and let us do for you what we know your present condition demands." 
               The sufferer tried to express his thanks; but between the faltering of his tongue and the frequent interruption of the woodsman and his daughter, he made but poor work at his attempts. His eyes were magnetically attracted to the singular beauty and loveliness of the girl; and he felt that the musical syllables of her name had lent an additional charm to the mysterious and bewitching grace of her person. 
               Wherever she moved about the room, his earnest eyes followed her. He watched every motion. He studied every artless attitude. He drank into his warmed soul every changing expression of her childlike countenance. And as he was at length compelled to close them, the lids of his eyes shut in pictures of female loveliness, upon which his earnest soul fed with overweening delight. 
               The preparations were at length completed by the generous woodsman and his daughter, and they together assisted him to remove to a place where more comfort could be got. He was really astonished to find to what an extent his strength had left him; and already felt the words and cautions of his kind friends were not without much meaning. 
               He was placed upon the forester's own bed, and told that there he must content himself until his hurt was completely healed and his strength recovered. The forester himself added, that he should want for no attention and no care; for when necessity called him away in the woods, Jeanette should watch patiently by his side, and assist him to beguile the long hours of his protracted confinement. 
               "But how long will it be to the day of my recovery?" asked the young man, his heart suddenly divided with contending emotions. 
               "Oh, I cannot tell that," replied the woodsman. "It will be a much longer time than it might, if you let yourself worry about it. You mustn't let yourself be so foolish as to do that, now. If you're careful, and don't think too much of your friends, why, I can safely promise you that you'll be well enough to go in a week or ten days." 
               The answer served, on the whole, to pacify him. If it were irksome to think of so long a confinement, it surely could be nothing but pleasure for him to bear it, especially if so fair a creature as Jeanette was to solace him in the affliction. 
               And while, therefore, he thought of the anxiety of his friends, he forgot, or tried to forget all, in the consciousness of the new joy that awaited his heart. 
                
               Forthwith Hugh Warnock sallied out from the cabin into the forest, and gathered a wisp of herbs, which he brought with him into the hut and commenced bruising with a smooth stone upon the hearth. Laying these upon a clean strip of cloth, he next proceeded to examine the nature of the young man's wound. 
               He laid bare his shoulder, and pronounced it by no means dangerous-only a flesh wound. Yet he said it was in an ugly place, and no good could, in any event, come of it. 
               Taking water freshly brought from the neighboring spring, he thoroughly washed the ragged wound, and then carefully applied the bruised herbs, which he bound securely upon the shoulder. 
               Jeanette could not endure so painful a sight, reared as she had been, in the heart of the wilderness. Her heart shuddered; and with a swimming sensation of her head, she hastened without the door. But the sight of the youth's misfortune had already touched her with the deepest compassion. She needed not to see the wound, in order to know how to feel pity for the distress of him on whom it was cruelly inflicted. 
               The rest of the day passed quietly at the secluded hut. The forester secured his guest's horse, taking special care that he should want nothing in compensation for his sagacious devotedness to his youthful master. His keen eyes ran him over several times, though by no means covetously. He felt, as he expressed himself, proud to be the servant of an animal that displayed such true nobility. 
               The first, and the second, and the third days were passed by the young man upon his couch. Hugh Warnock was in and about the cabin all the time, with the exception of a few brief intervals, and beguiled the hours with narrations of his long experience in the wilderness. Stories of fierce encounters with the wild animals, or with the cruel and blood-thirsty Indians, were plentifully interspersed. 
               As he became interested in his own narrative, his eyes would involuntarily light up, until they seemed perfectly a-glow. There was at such moments an irresistible attractiveness in his whole countenance. He glanced fiercely and excitedly about his cribbed domain, as if his eyes refused to be held by the small limits, and would pierce the roof to the sky. 
               His face, too, flushed with new colors. The dark brown of his complexion became still browner, as it played like a lambent flame over his features, lighting them up and giving vividness to their expression. 
               When at length the third day had passed, he approached the bed-side of the young man on the following morning, as if he would speak to him. But he slept. Hugh Warnock, therefore, did not waken him, but immediately retired from the apartment. 
               Taking Jeanette aside into the next room, he spake a few words to her in a subdued tone, to which she made continual response by an unbroken nodding of her head and shaking of her auburn curls. Then he disappeared silently through the door altogether. 
               When at last the young man awoke, he was not a little surprised to hear the sound of no feet or voices in the adjacent room. Turning, however, carefully on his couch, he was surprised beyond measure to behold the young girl sitting in a chair just by the entrance of the room. He could scarcely speak, at first, from his conflicting emotions. 
               "Have you slept well?" inquired she, in her peculiarly melodious voice. 
               "Thank you," replied he, exhibiting a deep tenderness of feeling, as he uttered the syllables, "I have not rested better a night since I have been here. And how is it with your own gentle spirits, this morning?" 
               He threw a glance at her with the words, full of the tenderest feeling. 
               "I am well," replied she, with a modesty that almost prevented her speaking at all. 
               "But where is your father, this morning?" asked he, willing to break away from the embarrassment into which his question had evidently thrown her. "He is up before me, this morning. He didn't even so much as wake me when he rose." 
               "He has gone," replied the fair maiden, looking down upon the floor. 
               "Gone?" exclaimed the young man; "but where?" 
               "He said he would not be back again until to-morrow evening at twilight," said she. "He did not tell me where he was going." 
               "And does he never tell you, when he thus absents himself?" asked the young man. 
               "No. I know that he plunges into the forest, and what more could I understand if he told me all? I know only that he punctually returns to me, and that is enough." 
               "But have you no fears for your safety, when thus left alone?" questioned the astonished listener. 
               "Fears!" exclaimed the young maiden, her eye lighting up perceptibly, "of what? Who should there be in all the world, to harm such a one as I!" 
               "But the Indians," suggested the young man, "have you no fears of them?" 
               "They never come here," quietly said she. 
               "Yet you do not know that they will not?" predicted he. 
               "No; but I never thought they would harm me, even if they did." 
               "This is strange enough!-passing strange!" thought the wounded guest. "I do not see how you wile away the time," he responded, attempting another feature of the subject. "I should think the hours would be long and lonely." 
               "Long! lonely!" exclaimed she; "far enough from it, I assure you! When the days are warm and balmy, as this day will be, or as some of the sweet and hazy days of autumn are, I wander away from the door to the edge of a cliff that overhangs a lake not more than a mile away, and sit down to drink in the influences. Do you love nature, sir!" asked she, changing her tone. 
               "Devotedly," replied he, his eyes kindling again. 
               "Then you can understand what my companions are. Then you can know all my sweet solaces in this forest solitude. Otherwise you cannot. I love every voice, every sound, every breath that revels in this wild-wood. The very trees that lift their green crowns to the sky, are my companions and friends. My golden-plumaged birds warble in the branches, as in some leafy aviary. Their emerald tops rock to and fro against the blue sky, like mighty ships upon the ocean. I sit at their feet, and drink in with my ears the melodies of a thousand birds, or breathe the aroma of a million painted flowers, or witness the dawning or dying tints of the swift-winged clouds. To me, there is never satiety in nature. Her pictures never tire; they never surfeit. They sleep in the chamber of my brain, and I can call them up into life whenever I will. 
               "I sit on the brow of the wooded cliff, and let my soul sleep in the clear sheet of water that spreads below me. It is beautiful by day, when the sheen of the garish sun is spread all over it, making it look like a huge mirror, set in among the emerald heights; and when the rosy clouds just tinge it in the morning, as the sun breaks out from his chambers in the east. And when twilight begins to gather, and the birds fold their tired wings, and the dews distil so gently on blades, and leaves, and brilliant flower-cups, I turn away from the scene often with a sad and sorrowing heart." 
               "Then you do feel sometimes saddened, even in the midst of your enjoyment?" he inquired. 
               "It is because it is all too much for me," said she, as her face colored with her fresh excitement. "It is too much for my soul. I revel in all these beauties, and in the midst of all this grandeur, and I am only too glad. It makes me feel my own littleness. I am overpowered by everything; by what I hear, and what I see, and what I feel. The influences of the sky, the earth, and the water, surfeit me at times, so that I find no relief except in grateful tears." 
               "I do indeed love nature," returned the patient; "but my love is nowise worthy to be compared to yours. I cannot sit and revel so completely in my own emotions. My heart has not been so baptized with the holy influences you have so long breathed in. But yet I would learn. I would live to learn. I feel that my nature has been but poorly schooled at best, and that I might spend a life-time to advantage, even among the silent companions of a trackless wilderness." 
               As he finished his words, his eyes met those of the fair enthusiast, and dropt instantly again. 
               It was a virtual confession; an admission that no solitude would be solitude if people with such images of beauty as she. 
               She did not, perhaps, so understand the matter as yet; inasmuch as her eyes were quite as innocent of the language of looks, as her heart was of the world. So she kept on with the train of remark into which she had been so easily led, and which so greatly added to her listener's deep delight. 
               "No," said she; "I know nothing of the world, of which you speak, and from which you come. I know not that there is any world, save the mysterious world in which I live. I have been trained only in the true instincts of my own heart. I know no other companion so faithful as that. I commune with no other friend. There could be no other friend so true to me. I have been learned no language but that which that same heart has taught me." 
                
               "Then you are happy indeed!" ejaculated her companion, with much fervor. "The outer world, of which you know nothing, is full of guile. Poison is in its deceitful heart, and distils from its slanderous tongue. Fame is but a painted bubble, which an evil-minded adversary will break for you at any moment. There is no happiness in the turmoil, and in the struggle, and the heat. There is nothing like these true, high and holy emotions that your heart feeds on in this unbroken solitude. No; you are right. You are right. You need not fear the fangs of the serpent, nor the jaws of the wild beast, nor the winged arrow of the wild Indian, one half so much as you may fear the tongue of calumny, or the bite of slander, or the sting of envy. You are right, fair maiden. You are happy, because only your heart is full of happiness, and your brain swims with the beautiful pictures of God. Would that I could be equally happy! Would that all mankind knew how thus to enjoy the existence they now labor to make a curse to themselves!" 
               He ceased speaking. His face was flushed with excitement. His hands dropped listlessly upon the counterpane, and he fell immediately into a train of deep thought. 
               The maiden rose from her seat, and set about making things ready for his morning meal. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               WILD MEDICINE. 
               BY the side of a small creek, or branch, which emptied into the far-famed Mohawk, was encamped a small party of Indians-Onondagas. 
               The hour was night, and the stillness of the forest was almost burdensome. Scarce a breath of wind drew through the branches of the trees, and not a sound, save of the distant rippling waters, invaded the mysterious silence of the circle. 
               The swart shadows crept slowly from their hiding-places among the rocks and tree-trunks, and begirt the small party with their weird and strange influences. They threw down a startling picturesqueness on the painted faces and lithe forms of the red warriors, such as are never seized by artist's pencil, and never transcribed to glowing canvas. 
               A small, dull fire was smouldering and smoking near them, whose fitful flames, as ever and anon they broke forth, lit up the braves with a lurid wildness. Their dusky forms were faintly outlined against the thick darkness, and then vanished from the eye into darkness altogether. 
               They were engaged in smoking their pipes, and gazing silently into the 
                     smoulderidg
                     smouldering
                   fire. Occasionally, one of them moved to heap another handful of combustibles, and then sat himself down again with the group, and relapsed into the same moody silence and thoughtfulness as before. 
               For some time they had been thus engaged. The dark clouds were piling up above their heads, and they felt a few straggling drops of rain. But no ejaculations, save the usual "ugh, ugh," escaped them. 
               All at once, and without the least previous concert, they sprang fiercely to their feet, each enunciating distinctly that familiar guttural "ugh," in rapid succession. Yet no other word was spoken. All were evidently alarmed by the same object; but no one found it necessary to convey it by language to the other. Their dialect was peculiarly that of the silence and the stillness. 
               They erected their majestic bodies to listen. Five were they all, but not a sound from their stoic lips. Just at that moment, too, the fire gleamed brightly forth from the dense folds of smoke that had enshrouded it, and revealed them once more in the thick darkness. 
               A sound was borne to them on the air, as of some one singing. They could not as yet hear footsteps, but had evidently been aroused so suddenly by the singing. It was a clear. boisterous, hearty voice, and as it drew nearer, the words were distinguishable. 
               "The moon is abed! The moon is early abed! No light gleams over the heaven! The wolf is abroad, but the light-footed deer stalks forth from his hiding-place no more. And the catamount shrieks in the covert. She calls for her young, that have been stolen from her! 
               "The eagle has folded his wing, and the eyrie is shut in with darkness. There is no breeze in the high tree-tops. No breath in the branches. No song of the wind across the glistening waters. The clouds are up, piling up-up! There is no moon to fling about them coats of silver, and to burnish them with glowing fires. No, no; the moon is abed. The pale moon has given out. The darkness has quenched it. The light has died in the black sky! 
               "The wolf is abroad; and so is the wild-cat, that howls on the mountain. Because the darkness covers them. Because their eyes are not blinded by the light. But the proud eagle's eye is shut, because there is no fire in its eye! 
               "The dark night is the time for the dark deed! The fox, and wolf, and catamount, are all abroad then. But the eagle-the proud eagle sleeps. It is no time for so brave a heart as his. He cannot see them in fight. He cannot crouch. He cannot creep so still and sly. He cannot tread like a wind-breath. He cannot skulk. No-no-no! 
               "But the wolf can skulk, and creep, and crouch! And so can the fox, and the catamount, and the fierce panther. And night is the time for them. It is the dark time of dark deeds. It gives light enough to the evil eye. It hides black thoughts. It covers up cruelty. But yet it cannot cover up all! 
               "There is a trail of fire behind each dark thought, and each dark deed. No darkness can cover it all up. No shadows can smoulder it. The fire always hangs on to the track of the deed. And men see the fire-path, and know that the deed of darkness is there, too. They see the lurid streak, and they know that a tale of crime and wrong is there. There is no deceiving the eye of men! 
               "Oh, night! How I love thee, mysterious night! How my soul goes up to thy shadowy skies! How my heart bounds to embrace thy dusky people! I love the darkness, and the silence! I hate the light! It blinds me. It pours into my eyes; and my eyeballs ache with pain; and my brain grows dizzy. I cannot bare the glare of the day! 
               "But the night! The wolf and the catamount are abroad then! And so is the evil doer. The bloody hand hides its stains in the darkness; and the cruel heart grows stronger and more cruel still. The shadows are with the doers of evil. The night is with them. The darkness covers them all so securely. But yet the track of light shall follow their deeds. They shall all come to punishment at last!" 
               The Indians stood as if stupefied, until the sounds had all died away. Then one of them, who appeared to be the leader of the party, exclaimed in a low and solemn voice- 
               "Wild Medicine?" 
               To this laconic ejaculation the rest instantly replied-their guttural-"ugh." 
               Presently the branches near by snapped to the tread of human feet, and all eyes turned instinctively, and with a fixed expression of superstitious awe, to the spot whence the sounds came. 
               A man, strangely enough clad, and the impersonation of wildness itself, came breaking through the surrounding thicket, muttering to himself as he passed on- 
               "The moon is abed!-abed!-abed!" 
               Immediately he entered the small encampment, and took his seat on the ground near the fire. Taking a brand from the pile, he commenced stirring and raking the remainder with it, until at length the tongues of the flames leaped, and wreathed, and danced upward through the smoke into the thick darkness. 
               The light threw a bright glare upon the forms and faces of the entire party, who regarded each other in silence and superstitious wonder. It was evident that this new comer was a person of unequalled reverence among them. Their looks and their silence both betrayed it. 
               As he sat down in the full blaze of the flame, he took a pipe from the leader of the party, and began to wreathe his head in the curling volumes of its smoke. Erecting, likewise, a couple of forked sticks in the ground, he carefully suspended from between them a strange and mysterious-looking bag, at which all the Indians continued glancing with feelings of fear. 
               The man was of middle age, yet his hair was white as with the snows of four-score winters. While he continued his smoking, still gazing thoughtfully into the fire, and mysteriously enjoining silence on the rest, his countenance offered a fine study for a painter. 
               He had an open and prepossessing natural expression of features, and his forehead was massive and broad. Much power of thought lay concealed behind it. 
               His mouth was good, and his lips almost constantly compressed when he was not speaking. His cheeks, however, were somewhat shrivelled and shrunken. He had a shaggy and overhanging eyebrow, which concealed much of the expression of his eyes, when they were not kindled with excitement. But the eye itself was a wild, and strange, and fearful eye, peering as it did from beneath the overhanging brow, to which but little justice could be done by a description. 
               His look was, on the whole, quite haggard and anxious. Indeed, he seemed much worn with care. And yet it was difficult to tell what cares and what troublous thoughts ever bore heavily on so mysterious a being as that. 
               While he sat and smoked, with his arms folded tightly about his body, and while, too, his gleaming eyes played and wandered strangely among the flames that danced before him, the Indians regarded him with a silence that bordered on absolute reverence. They never once offered to break in upon the secrecy of his thoughts, believing that they necessarily had intimate connection with their own success-war, and happiness in their shadowy hunting-grounds. 
               He sat and slowly puffed out the clouds of white smoke, while his tightly clasped body rocked to and fro in the tumult of his reflections.-Occasionally his lips moved; but no sounds or syllables were distinguishable by those around him. 
               At length he spake, holding his pipe firmly in his hand, and deliberately turning to survey the party of Indians:- 
               "The Great Spirit is angry! He would have more of your service! The Great Spirit will not answer me, when I try to ask of the Future! The owners are all bad!" 
               "But what would the Great Spirit have us do?" asked the leader of the band, looking intently at him. 
               Wild Medicine was for a moment silent. 
               At length he raised his head again, and replied, 
               "Be up and away!" 
               The braves all looked at each other wonderingly. 
               "Be up and away!" repeated he. "The night is dark! The clouds pile high in the sky! The rain patters on the leaves! It is not time to sleep! The dark deed must be done! 
               "Do you hear the voice of the Great Spirit in the wind? What doth He say? Hear you his voice in the tree-tops?-in the clouds, that gather rain?-in the breezes, that blow across the meadows? 
               "Listen. The war-path must be followed up! The pale faces are hedging us all about. They come as thick as the leaves fall in autumn. They creep along in armies; and their flags wave over their heads; and there is music with them, as they tread; and their long knives glisten in the sun; and their long plumes wave in the dancing wind. Yes!-yes! Be up and away! The Great Spirit is full of anger! He chides the red man, because he takes no scalps. He hides his face because the red man follows not the war-path. He grieves, that the hatchet has so many moons been buried! 
               "Up and away, then! while the shadows gather, up and away! It is night. The darkness covers up the trail. It hides the keen eyes. Let the red man follow what Wild Medicine has told him!" 
               The countenances of all present were perceptibly sobered and thoughtful, while this singular being thus gave utterance to his fanciful prophecies. They regarded him with a veneration little removed from worship itself. 
               At length, after several minutes of unbroken silence, during which Wild Medicine stood gazing with intense thoughtfulness into the fire, he turned slowly away and disappeared in the forest. 
                
               Their sharp eyes followed him as long as they could, and then returned to gaze as intently as ever upon the now fast dying flames. 
               Suddenly they all simultaneously started again, as if smitten with terror. Again their eyes were directed to the darkness, where they were fixed for many minutes. 
               An unpracticed eye could have discerned no motion. An untried ear could have caught no sound. Yet the quick and unerring instincts of the Indian warned him that some one was slowly approaching. 
               And their suspicions were well grounded. 
               For a moment the form of a being approached from the thick gloom of the forest, treading softly upon leaves and dried branches, as if anxious to avoid detection. But his design of surprising them was hopelessly frustrated. 
               The leader of the party uttered a low voice, as if calling the name of some one of his band. 
               It was instantly responded to by the individual approaching, and a low "ugh" was simultaneously indulged in by all. 
               Immediately a swart and dusky being moved with a slow and dignified tread, within the encampment, and stood for a moment silently surveying the strange and picturesque outlines of the group. 
               It was Oneko! 
               "Whence come you?" inquired the leader in a subdued voice. 
               "From the big water," was his reply; and his eyes at once fell listlessly upon the fire. 
               "And what tidings brings Oneko from the path of the big river?" continued the questioner. 
               "The pale faces be many," was his reply, his gaze still resting upon the smouldering fire. 
               "And what of that? So be the red men many. And the pale faces shall melt away like snow before them." 
               "Not so," said Oneko. 
               "How does Oneko know, then? Has the Great Spirit had a talk with him? Can Oneko read the heart of the Great Spirit, like the Wild Medicine? 
               The new comer for a moment was silent and abstracted 
               Then he raised his head partially again, and asked of the leader- 
               "Has the Wild Medicine come?" 
               "He has just left the ground where Oneko stands," replied the leader. 
               Again Oneko became thoughtful. 
               "And what was the message of the Wild Medicine?" he at length interrupted. 
               That the pale faces were gathering." 
               He spoke true. The Wild Medicine spoke true." 
               But the Great Spirit has told Wild Medicine that the pale faces shall not melt. he has promised that they should grow more; like the leaves in the forest." 
               "The Wild Medicine knows the heart of the Great Spirit, better than Oneko," said the latter in reply. 
               "Is there news from the great city of pale men?" continued his interrogator. 
                
               "Oneko is not skilled enough to read them. He knows not their hearts," replied the Indian. 
               "Is the pale father yet in their councils? Doth he rule his people?" 
               "Sir Henry Clinton is with his pale faces, and their squaws and papooses," answered Oneko. 
               The rest of the party listened to these last words of Oneko with superstitious awe. There was that in their import which they did not fully comprehend; and it only served to heighten their reverence. 
               They frequently exchanged meaning looks with each other; but the studied silence with which those looks were given, betrayed much more than speech. 
               "The pale face has come into the lodges," continued Oneko, "bringing trinkets for the squaws of the red man. Oneko led him through the woods." 
               "And when will his pale father visit the red men in their lodges?" inquired the leader. 
               "Before many more moons," was his reply. "He will come to bring fire-water to the red man, and clothes to the squaws. He would be a friend to the red man." 
               The leader shook his head dubiously. 
               "He promises much fire-water for their friendship. He will take all their skins, and give them all they need. He will speak good words for them to the great father of the pale faces; and the red man shall always be the friend of the pale faces who are his children. There are many of them. He would have them all the red man's friends." 
               "The pale face who brings the fire-water has forgot!" said the chief, his eyes dilating as he spoke. "He has no heart to remember." 
               Oneko was silent. 
               "No; but the red man remembers," continued he. The memory of the red man is long. He knows all that has been done. He forgets nothing. No fire-water will ever make him wash out his cruel wrongs." 
               For a short time silence reigned. All appeared plunged in deep thought;-the two who had been talking, upon the topic of their conversation; and the remainder, upon the deep import that lay in their syllables. 
               At length the leader of the party made them all a sign, at which they stood erect and ready. 
               "Come!" was the only syllable that escaped his lips. 
               And forthwith they followed close upon him, observing that single file order of march which seems to have been a peculiarity of their nation. 
               In a few moments nothing more could be heard of them. Their footfall echoed not in the thicket. They left no sound of their voices. They had vanished into the impenetrable darkness and gloom. 
               The place was soon deserted and silent. Only the swash of the waters burdened the air with its melancholy sound. The fires had all sunk down and died out. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               LIFE AT THE HUT IN THE WOOD. 
               THE reader may be assured that the life of the wounded young man at the hut, though confining to him, was by no means inconvenient or tedious. The hours passed away, he knew not whither. They came and went as in a dream. 
               After each interview with Jeanette, such as the one recorded in a former chapter, he felt his heart drawn to her by a magnetism which he could not withstand. 
               He studied in speechless silence the mystic expressions that flitted, like the smiles of angels, across her countenance; and he thought each one fuller of sweetness, and more entrancing than its predecessor. 
               He dreamed of her in his slumbers, and in his deep and refreshing sleeps; and her image called to his brain delicious pictures of what was beautiful, and holy, and true, both in human life and in nature. 
               His eyes followed her every footstep, so that all her changing attitudes were studied with admiration, and all her postures compared to nothing so much as natural grace itself. 
               After a few days, his strength had so far returned as to permit him to rise from his bed and go about the rude cabin; but he could endure but little at a time, and was compelled to lie down again for rest many times in a day. 
               During these intervals of strength, each day becoming more protracted, he was solaced by the constant companionship of Jeanette. She read to him from the pages of Shakspeare, that 
                     well-thummed
                     well-thumbed
                   volume lying on the table. And his conversation so readily glided into hers upon the many beauties of the great poet, and the natural touches that abound upon his pages, that he almost felt that their thoughts, as well as their tastes, were completely in unison. 
               How could their hearts help linking in sympathy! 
               As he grew stronger, he proposed short walks from the hut into the wilderness. He assured her that the fresh air would revive him. He felt certain, too, that his soul would grow stronger as well as his body, and his entire nature grow purer, if he could learn to commune with the mysteries of the outer world through her. Nature would then possess an attractiveness which would never be seized upon by his soul, except through the bond of her active and secret sympathies. 
               They wandered one day to the cliff of which she had many a time spoken to him. The air was balmy and full of vigorous breezes. It exhaled mingled odors from a million flowers, and reviving aromas from a million trees. Life was mystically shooting up in everything. The steaming vapors, that had at early morning risen from the sodden earth, had mingled blissfully in distant clouds, and were now sailing away in the cerulean heaven like large argosies of gold. 
               It was afternoon, near the hour of sunset. Never, the young man thought, had the outer world worn such an aspect for him before. Never before did such gorgeous clouds pile away in the heights of the western sky; or, if they had, he knew it not. His eyes must now have been opened for the first time. 
               The air too, seemed never so balmy and delicious before. The airs were like those blown from Paradise. Perhaps, however, the attraction of his companion helped him to such an opinion. 
               The wild birds were pouring out liquid melodies from strained throats, as if they could not sing at all too loud for their overflowing gratitude. The insects through the woods were just commencing their droning, drowsy music, that almost burdened the air with a sense sweet melancholy. 
               Far below them, lay the clear lake, lapped in the bosom of the hills. The lofty trees were thrown down in long and pointed shadows, across its pellucid surface. They looked as if they were but sleeping in the waters; or as if there were growing some mysterious and magnificent forest there. 
               Far beyond, as far as the eye could reach, was a vast expanse of forest; broad deep, and seemingly illimitable. Its lofty trees crowded one above another on the heights, or sank as gradually beneath each others' shoulders in the valleys. It was an expanse of deep and unchangeable emerald. 
               The eye kindled imperceptibly, and the brain grew gradually intoxicated, and the heart leaped up impulsively with a living joy, at the contemplation of the wooded scene. Beautiful, would be but a meagre word, wherewith to describe such a picture. Grand, would not convey the whole impression. The sight must needs have been beholden, to be appreciated, or even understood. 
               They were sitting at the foot of the huge beech-tree, whose broad arms were flung widely over the spot. The shadows played upon their foreheads, and across their persons. The drifts of air, laden with incense, breathed freely and refreshingly upon them. Their feelings were fully in keepings with the scene. 
               "Jeanette," at length spoke the young man, after a long and thoughtful pause; "I must leave you. My time is growing shorter each hour." 
               The words had no other effect upon the girl than to throw a cloud of sadness over her countenance, and compel her to drop her blue eyes thoughtfully to the ground. 
               "I came here a stranger, Jeanette," continued he. "I was unknown and unbidden." 
               "But you have been every moment welcome!" interrupted she. 
               "Alas! alas!" said he, "I know it too well! I feel that my stay here, though it must have been both painful and troublesome to both yourself and your good father, has been no more than a dream to me. I have been happy in my sufferings. I know not how it is-I cannot tell how it is-but my heart has been full of strange feelings since first I knew this place in the wilderness." 
               She looked up innocently in his face, as if for an explanation. 
               Her innocent and child-like heart was not yet schooled in the language he would have employed. 
               "I have been haunted with such beautiful thoughts, Jeanette. My mind has been so active with the dreams that continually floated through it. And all this, too, at a time when my heart least looked for such things; in a time of cruel war and wicked slaughter." 
               "I am glad my new friend has liked his wilderness home, then, so much," artlessly replied Jeanette. 
               He looked tenderly at her a moment. He could hardly speak. His eyes glowed with a living language. At last he trusted himself to words again: 
               "You imagine it is some charm about your home, Jeanette, that has attracted me. It is not so." 
               She looked surprised. 
               "Yes," he instantly interrupted: "I do love your deep wilderness home. I am inexpressibly charmed with the grandeur and the beauties of everything around you. But it is not so much of that I spoke." 
               "Then what?" inquired she, with an air of charming naivette, that totally disarmed him of his fears. 
               "Jeanette," said he, in a low and trembling voice; "can you not already read my heart?" 
               She looked first at him, then at the ground, then off over the sleeping lake, and then at him again. 
               He was confused almost beyond recovery. 
               He snatched her hand from her lap, and held it affectionately between his own. 
               "Jeanette! Jeanette! my heart will not dissemble. I cannot keep back the secret. I love you, Jeanette! With all the passion of my heart do I love you!" 
               Her face was as crimson. The hot blood flew along her veins, flushing her arching neck, and mantling her soft cheek, and tinging her snowy forehead. She would have spoken but she knew not what she ought to say. 
               The young man continued. 
               "I know that I am a stranger to you, Jeanette; yet I could not suffer my heart to deceive me, even if I were ten times a stranger. I feel that even days have been years to me. I have lived weeks in only short hours. My thoughts have been so gentle, so pure, so full of affection. I love you, dear Jeanette;"-and he pressed her yielding hand passionately to his lips. 
               Jeanete blushed, but essayed not to speak. She could not trust herself to utterance. 
               "Say but a single word to me, Jeanette," begged he, gazing prayerfully in her face. "Only tell me that you love me in return. I have never loved before, but my heart does not misgive me now. I know my heart. It is all-all your own. Only say that you will accept my affection. Tell me that you have a thought of love for me-me, a poor and lost wanderer. Say to me that I may hope for a return of this feeling. Say that you will be mine, Jeanette; truly mine; wholly mine!" 
               Though the forest child had been bred in total ignorance of what was proper, or expected on such an occasion as this, yet the womanly instincts of her nature were better than all. They supplied the place of art, better than art could have done for itself. And at once she replied to him, her manner full of native modesty, and her tones full of touching tenderness- 
               "I cannot answer as I would! My heart is yours-I give it freely to you, if its possession can make you happy!" 
               Another syllable was not needed. He held on more affectionately to the hand that lay passively between his own, and drew her nearer to him, pressing a kiss upon her forehead, now grown frightfully pale. 
               He turned, and asked her what was the matter. 
               "I was thinking of your leaving me," said she, the big tears sailing slowly into her eyes. 
               "Generous soul!" exclaimed he, still again drawing her gently to him; "I would not have you grieve. I would not have you become sad." 
               "But I shall now be lonely," she replied. "Before you came, I could not have thought of it. My days were all dreams. I plucked the flowers from the woods, and braided them into wreaths. I leaned over the little pools, holding on upon some tree-trunk, and saw myself in their sleeping mirrors. I chased the wild birds, and was even gayer than they. I knew nothing of this new feeling. I had never heard of it before. I had never felt this aching of my heart. It is all so strange to me." 
               "Poor child!" murmured the young man, tenderly. 
               "But now," said she, running her eyes sadly along the tapestried stems of the lofty trees, and betraying by her tone, a still sadder spirit than before-"But now, how every thing seems changed! I shall feel the solitude now. I shall dread the shadows, when they come close about the cabin from the forest. I shall walk in these pleasant places, where you have so often sat and talked with me, and shall feel quite alone. There will be no one near to talk with me, as you have talked. No one, to whom I can tell all my thoughts, and all my feelings. No, one to whom I can make myself understood. Before you came I knew not what a pleasure all this gave me. When you go, what will poor Jeanette do? She will feel as if she had better never have known this pleasure. Pity poor Jeanette! Pity her!"-and as she finished her words, the tears fell from her eyes like a plentiful rain. 
               The young man was sensibly touched with the simplicity and directness of her language. For a moment he could not speak. 
               At length he ventured a reply: 
               "Jeanette, I pity you from my heart!" 
               These words were the signal for a fresh breaking forth of tears, and deep and heavy sobs now escaped from her breast. 
               "I do pity you, Jeanette," continued he. "But I love you still more. Ah, you cannot tell how very much more! I am saddened most of all to think that I must so soon leave you; and leave you in such a lonely place as this. You will only be more lonely than ever. Your hours will hang upon your hands, as if some great sorrow weighed heavily in them. I shall be in the camp among my brave comrades. I shall always think of you, Jeanette; but I shall have no time for sorrow. My heart must henceforth be braced against such feelings, and my nerves must grow suddenly strong. Ah, poor-poor Jeanette! You will not now know what is my love for you! You may know at another time, but not now!" 
               She laid her head still upon his shoulder. Her tears were, all this time, none the less plentiful, and her frequent sobs none the less heartrending. 
               "What is the matter, Jeanette?" he asked, after enduring the sight of her grief as long as possible. "Have I come here only to make you unhappy?" 
               "No-no!-no!" replied she faintly, half raising her head from his shoulder, and trying to look up into his face. 
               "I have been the unwilling cause of all this," said he, moving as if to break away from her, in a tumultuous impulse of self-reproach. "I have made you unhappy, dear Jeanette!" 
               "No-no-no!"-replied she again, in hurried ejaculations. 
               "Then what?" he asked, "what shall I do-what can I do, to restore peace again to your troubled heart? I would have you forgive me for this, Jeanette! I implore your forgiveness for it all!" 
               She replied to him only in short and quick-recurring sobs. 
               "You are wretched, that I am forced to leave you," said he. "I know by this that your heart is mine. I need no other proof of it. I will ask for no other." 
               The girl's head still lay confidingly upon his shoulder. Her breathings were quick and short, and interrupted frequently with sobs. She was a picture of trustfulness and truth. 
               Here was not a love grown in the hot-beds of a factitious life. It was the out-pourings of nature itself. It sprung from the healthy soil of her heart, and depended not on happy phrases, or well-turned expressions, for its betrayal. She was a simple child of nature. All her feelings were of nature. All her instincts were those of trust and truth. And as she sat thus silently and sad beside her young and ardent lover, she was an opened volume, whose bright pages he might read readily with every glance of his eye. "Jeanette," spake he at length again, "why need you live here in this place of danger? Why will you still stay in these trackless woods, with no companions save your sad thoughts? Is there no happiness for you elsewhere?" 
               "I know no other life than this," replied she sorrowfully. "I have known no other world. This is enough for me. No other could make me so happy as this." 
               "Yet you say you will be sad?" 
               "When I am left alone again," she answered. 
               "Then why will you remain here? Why will you persist in staying longer where you are every succeeding day to be rendered unhappy?" 
               She looked at him with a more serious air than she had observed before. 
               "Where shall I go then?" she asked, abstractedly. 
               "I have a home in a distant town in Vermont. I have no parents, it is true; but a kind uncle and a kinder aunt would delight to make you continually happy." 
               "Ah!" she sighed, mournfully. 
               "Why not?" he asked. 
               "Could I leave my poor father?" 
               The young man grew suddenly thoughtful. 
               "Could I leave him? No-no! He would not let me go, if I would. And I love him, too. The old wilderness would be much darker for him at night, if my eyes were not with him to light up the gloom. He would miss me so much, too. I am sure he would not live long, if I left him. He grows older every day. Do you not see it?" 
               "Yes, he must. We all do." 
               "And when his years shall be many," continued she, "will he not want Jeanette near him, to read to him when it pleases him, or to sing one of her woodland songs, when he is weary with long journeys; or to talk kindly to him when he is downcast and sober?" 
               The young man's heart was smitten. 
               "Say no more of it," replied he. "Only forgive me my selfishness. I had thought that because I loved you, all your love in return must be for me. I was hasty-I was selfish-I forget. Forgive me, Jeanette." 
               "No, I must not leave my good father;" persisted she, taking a sad pleasure in talking of the subject. "He has cared well for me while I have been so many years helpless; how I must wait and watch for him. I love my father. Do you not love yours?" 
               He reminded her that he had no father. 
               She regarded him a brief moment with an expression of the most intense and interesting compassion; then she replied- 
               "But you have had?" 
               "Yes," said he; "but I do not remember him. I only know my good uncle. He has been a father to me. And so will he be a father to Jeanette, when I carry her to his roof. He will love Jeanette for my sake, even if he does not for her own." 
               Perceptibly now had the shadows begun to gather around them, and hedge them in. The trees had sunk in the waters of the lake. There were no shadows there. The waters themselves had been draped with darkness, and looked mournful and sullen. 
               They rose silently from the foot of the huge beech tree, and walked back to the cabin. Scarce a word was spoken by either on the way. 
               When they arrived there they found Hugh Warnock seated before his door, gazing thoughtfully over the forest. He saluted them somewhat playfully, while his eye kindled quickly and took in the entire figure of the young stranger at a look. They afterwards all sat down together in the cabin, and the remainder of the evening was passed in discussing the causes and success of the Revolution that had broken out, and was then being pushed forward so energetically through the country. 
               The second day after this, the young man mounted his faithful horse, after taking an affectionate adieu of his benefactor and his heart's mistress, and rode sorrowfully away into the forest. 
               He had been for some time released from his duties on furlough. It was quite time for him to think of returning to his post. Hugh Warnock nock instructed him as best he could respecting the course he was to take, and Lieut. William Hooper-for such was his name-vanished from their vision. 
               All through that day poor Jeanette was sad and silent. She tried to keep her secret deep in her heart. But it betrayed itself in her countenance. Hugh thought he could read it already in her eyes. 
               But he was too sagacious to speak to her of it. He kept it to himself. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               RALPH RUNNION-THE ABDUCTION. 
               IT was perhaps quite a week, or ten days, after the departure of young Lieutenant William Hooper from the hut, when Jeanette happened, one afternoon to be sitting in the door. 
               The day had been warm and delightful. Jeanette had been out in the woods on her usual ramble, where she had gathered huge bunches of wild flowers, and long trains of leafy vines and runners, and now sat down in the door to weave the whole into garlands and wreaths. These she was accustomed to hang up on the branches of neighboring trees, or at times to suspend from the rough interior walls of the cabin. 
               The occupation afforded her ample facility for gratifying those poetical fancies that swept like soft music across her-brain, and yielded her new and changing delights that simple reflection could not have done. She would have been far more sorrowful, if she had had no such innocent diversion as this. This occupation seemed, in truth, to entwine thoughts of pleasure among those of sorrow; so that the hours themselves were garlanded with emotions of every hue and intensity. 
               Hugh, her father, had left her for another of his mysterious periods of absence. She had long ago grown so accustomed to these things, however, that she ceased to give her heart any uneasiness about them. She felt that he would again return to her, just as he had returned times innumerable. 
               Her thoughts were not altogether upon him, but upon her absent lover. 
               And as she sat twining the flowers in with the trailing vines, starring the green and glossy leaves with bright and golden flower-cups, the black cat sitting and contentedly purring in the shadow by her side, her ear was startled by the sound as of some one approaching. 
               She raised her head, and looked a moment cautiously about her, but saw nothing. And she immediately fell about her pleasant labor again. She thought the noise might be that of some animal in the woods. 
               She had not been occupied over her leaves and flowers again for a long time, when her eyes caught the moving of a shadow. 
               She looked up hastily, her heart palpitating with fear. It could not be her father, thought she, with lightning rapidity: for he was not to return at all on that day. 
                
               As she looked up, her eyes fell upon the form of a man, who was standing directly before her. 
               She started with wild alarm, making a fruitless effort to rise. The flowers dropped and rolled from her lap to the ground. Her face was livid with fright. 
               The man was young in appearance, albeit the marks of crime and infamy seemed branded deeply upon his features. He wore a skull-shaped cap, that was closely fitted to his head, and made of bits of old skins, from which the hair had long ago been worn. In his hands he carried a rifle, which, as he had approached the cabin, he had grounded at his side. 
               He was tall, lank, and muscular. The look of an honest forester he did not have. His whole appearance was very much to his prejudice. 
               As he gazed thus stolidly at Jeanette, his eye appeared fishy and expressionless; as if he might be flagged with the trials of the past few hours. Brutality and licentiousness slept in his looks, as flaming fires smoulder in the deadened ashes, ready to burst forth at the first provocation. 
               She could not scream, for fear. She could not speak. She felt as if the swift blood that rushed back upon her heart, would stop its beating forever. 
               "You are alone!" at length remarked he, in the same stolid, indifferent manner in which he had been gazing at her. 
               She could make no reply. 
               "Hugh Warnock has gone!" continued he. "He will not be back until to-morrow!" 
               She looked at him with increased surprise and fear. How could he have gained that intelligence? Was Hugh an acquaintance of such a being as that? 
               "You see I know all," said he, glancing round with an air of perfect assurance. 
               She could not suppress a strange impulse, just at that moment, to nod assent; but it was an assent wholly extorted by fear. 
               "I want to have a talk with ye," said he, drawing gradually a little nearer, and moving as if about to seat himself by her side. 
               She would have shrunk from his approach with absolute horror; but her fears overruled that feeling, and she betrayed no symptoms of aversion. 
               "You see I have come a good way from here," he continued, though still keeping his standing posture, "I have come a good way to see you; and I am glad enough not to find myself disappointed. I wouldn't have lost my labor for nothin'." 
               The girl took sudden courage. 
               "For what have you come to see me?" she asked, the blood flying swiftly to her face again. 
               "Come now," returned he; "don't be hasty, and I'll try to tell ye! I have heard before now of you; and the fact is, I've long had a mind to come over this way. I've got quite a variety of reasons why I want to see ye." 
               She became more disgusted with him at every word. She gathered all her courage now into one effort, and immediately answered him- 
                
               "If you have any business here, I wish you would state it at once." 
               "But don't be in a hurry!" said he, interrupting her. 
               "I am not in a hurry," she replied. "I am alone, and-" 
               "I know it." 
               "And you seek to take advantage-" 
               "Only wait and hear my story out, my pretty beauty," he interrupted again. 
               "I am all patience," she replied, folding her arms, while the flowers kept rolling down upon the ground. 
               There was a disdainful expression on her face at the moment, which though he might not have seen it, certainly boded him no good. 
               "In the fust place," said he, "I've heerd so much of ye, though I'm livin' quite a piece away from here, that I'd fell in love a long time before I'd seen ye. There's no harm in that, I hope, Miss." 
               "What is that to me?" spoke she, her hands gradually disengaging themselves, new fires kindling in her eyes. "What is that to me? How have you heard of me?" 
               "I might jest as well tell you, that that warn't nothin' to you, neither. It aint no matter when I heerd of ye-nor where-nor how. It's enough that I got a fust rate discripshun, and that that same discripshun aint a bit short of the reality! Aint that enough, don't ye think?" 
               She would not answer him. 
               "You see, my pretty beauty," he continued, now seating himself near her, "you see that I've sort o' come to do a little courtin'. I live a good many miles from here. My cabin is without any sich woman as you. And I need some sich a one, to mend my clothes, and take care o' my traps for me, while I'm gone out into the woods for the livin'." 
               She attempted to rise from her seat, unable to endure his brutality and impudence. 
               "No-no!" said he, stretching out his hand over her person, as if to stay her motion. "'Twouldn't be best to go yit! I haint but jest come. I haint got through with my talk. I've hardly begun it. Wait a bit!" 
               She suffered herself to be seated again by the imperiousness of his gesture. The thought occurred to her, that seeing a compliance for the moment, with his offensive wishes, might at length induce him to go peaceably away. 
               "I dono how 'tis," he said, "but I feel as if I must tell you what a strange partiality I've got for you. I can't find jest the words to tell it to you in, neither." 
               "I would not hear it," replied she. 
               "What! Refuse to hear me tell ye how much I-" 
               "I do not care any thing about it," said she quickly 
               "But you must! I came a purpose to tell ye!" 
               She was silent. 
               "Maybe your feelins is given up to another!" he inquired. 
               To this impudent inquiry, no reply was made. 
               "But that won't make no sort o' diff'rence, even if they be," said he, triumphantly. "I've come a purpose to court ye, and I'm your man!-You can take the rest of the day to think about it; and after that, we'll consider the whole bargain struck!" 
                
               Again she moved to rise. 
               Poor child! Where should she go? If she retreated into the cabin, there was no additional security for her there. She could not bar the door against the ruffian. She was, then, utterly helpless. 
               The eyes of the black cat, that crouched in the shadow by her side, were like balls of fire. 
               "But stay!" said he, again ordering her back. There must have been a magnetism of strange power in the sweep of his powerful arm. 
               "I do not know why you came here-" she attempted. 
               "To tell you how much I love ye!" said he, raising his voice. 
               "I do not wish you to!" said she. 
               'And I've told ye that that don't make no manner of difference!" replied he. "Ralph Runnion never thought of goin' a courtin', only to be disappointed. No, pretty Miss; he's surer of his game 'n that!" 
               "Will you persist in doing that which is so very disagreeable to me?" asked she, as if she had the instinctive sagacity to appeal at length to his better feelings. 
               "I don't persist," he answered. 
               "You abuse me! You insult me by your presence!" said she, for the first time looking straight in his face. 
               "Can't help that," he coolly replied. "Don't mean to! Ralph Runnion aint the man, though, to lose his errand for too much ceremony. Don't mean to insult ye, really; sorry, if I have. But I want ye to let me love ye!" 
               It seemed as if all the language of which she was capable, could not convey to the monster a tithe of the disgust, scorn, and withering contempt she felt for him. 
               To attempt to reason with him, would be folly. Even to reply to him, would be to throw away words. His nature was too inhuman, too brutalized, too degraded, to understand her words. It would be throwing pearls before swine. 
               And the sense of her loneliness came back like an overwhelming surge upon her heart, beating down the buoyancy of her spirits; washing away almost the landmarks of her reason, and hardly stopping before removing from her heart all consciousness itself. 
               Amidst all these conflicting feelings, therefore, she was silent. 
               "Come, my beauty," said he; "will ye say you'll go home with me for a wife?" 
               "No!" sharply replied she. 
               "Won't, hey?" 
               "Leave me!" she ordered. "You insult me!" 
               "But I don't mean to," said he. 
               "Will you leave me?" she again asked. 
               "What! and let you stay all alone in this desolate place?" 
               "I am never too desolate here." 
               "Leave you to live here alone! I don't think it's right!" said he. 
               "I ask you to go away at once!" again repeated she. 
               "Alone! No! you would not have me go alone. Surely you will accompany me. Do not bid me go!" 
               "Yes: go at once!" 
                
               "Oh, no, pretty Miss; I can't go without you! 'Twouldn't do for me to go back home without accomplishin' my errand! I never did sich a thing as that!" 
               "Why do you stay here to insult me," she asked, "when you know that I am unprotected? It's a coward's part; and I believe you are less than a man, if you persist in staying against my will." 
               "Come, come!" he interrupted. "Don't talk so. I've got tired o' hearin' of it. I can't hear it no more." 
               "Then go!" she ordered. 
               "But not without you," he answered. 
               "You will go without me! I do not know you! I do not know what your business is here!" 
               "My name is Ralph Runnion, as I have told ye. My business is, to carry you back with me." 
               She looked wildly at his eyes, to assure herself that he was serious. 
               There was no mistaking the brutal expression that dwelt on his countenance. 
               She rose once more to leave him. 
               He stretched forth his hand and grasped her by the arm. 
               Quicker than thought, the old black cat sprang from her hiding place, where he had not seen her before, and, with glaring eyes and glistening claws, fell upon his neck and face! 
               He let go his hold upon the girl in an instant. 
               "Murder! murder!" shrieked he, in the agony occasioned by the deep gashing and scratching of her long nails. 
               The infuriated but faithful creature bit him with her teeth, scratched him with her claws, and howled and hissed in his ears, as if a legion of fiends had suddenly seized upon him. 
               He yelled for life, but could not move a step. Jeanette retreated hastily within the door, and clapped her hands vigorously, to encourage the timely attack of her faithful companion. And the ruffian struck about him with his rifle stock, as if he must either kill the cat at once, or beat out his own brains in his agony. 
               "Murder! murder! Take 'em off! Oh, do take 'em off!" he shouted, till the woods all around rung with his fierce echoes. 
               "They're tearing out my soul!" he cried, as if such a villainous rascal as he could have a soul. "They're killing me! They'll dig my eyes out! Murder! Take 'em off! Take 'em off!" he cried again and again. 
               All this time, Jeanette continued to encourage the ferocious creature, well believing that the punishment was not a whit too much for him. She meant that the cat should hold on upon him, until he had rid the neighborhood of his presence altogether, even if the ruffian's life were thereby made a sacrifice. 
               "Whew! whew! Oh-oh-oh!" he screamed and groaned together. 
               The animal still kept howling in his ears, frightening him out of his wits. And she kept tearing his flesh, too, with her claws, till the blood ran freely down his cheeks and neck. 
               Suddenly the only idea that could have tended in the least degree to his safety, occurred to him. Grasping his rifle with a firmer hand, he set out on a fierce run, and made off for dear life. 
                
               The faithful and sagacious animal dropped from his person, as soon as he had reached a point sufficiently remote from the cabin. But his wounds so sorely afflicted him, and his alarm at such a strange apparition was so great and so sudden, that he knew nothing of it. He supposed that an army of devils had fallen upon him, and that they still tore him with their fangs, and hissed into his ears with their sibilant tongues. Such terror never beset him before. 
               For a long distance into the woods he ran, shouting "murder," and hallooing for help at the top of his voice. And not until he had gone very far beyond the reach of further harm, did he pause from his mad career, to take breath. 
               The creature that had been so efficient in repulsing the villain, now turned and walked slowly homeward, as if conscious of the great service she had performed. 
               Her eyes flashed wildly in her head, and, with her half-erected back, and monstrous tail, she seemed the incarnation of fiendishness itself. But it was a fiendishness that had been turned to account in behalf of humanity. She was, in truth, more human than the ruffian she had so successfully assaulted. 
               Jeanette watched her companion's return with much interest. She had been greatly excited during the incident, and it was natural that after it, her nervous system should have suffered a shock. A considerable time was requisite for her fully to recover from the tumult into which she had been thrown. 
               Next day, forgetful of the alarm that had fallen upon her so recently, and thinking most of the absent lover, she wandered off alone to the huge beech tree, and sat down in its shade to turn her thoughts upon the subject nearest and dearest to her heart. 
               She held a few leaves in her hand, which she was idly contemplating. Ever and anon she raised her eyes from them, and looked off thoughtfully upon the glistening lake. She was sad, yet her heart was swelling up with pleasure. 
               A sound, as of crackling boughs, suddenly caught her ear. She silenced her fears, however, by supposing that it was only the cat roving off around her. 
               Presently she heard a voice. She looked up, and a man stood near her. 
               He was Ralph Runnion, the renegade, who had endeavored to use violence with her only the afternoon before. 
               "I've got ye now, I guess," he exclaimed. 
               The girl trembled from head to foot with fear. 
               "No use to holler now," said he, advancing until he stood fairly over her. "That are black devil aint here to defend ye now, and tear a feller's eyes out of his head! You can't depend on that cussed varmint now!" 
               The villain's face bore ample testimony to the vigorous service the cat had done for the cause of her mistress. It was streaked and striped with the ugly marks of its claws. And, the venom had so far begun to work in the flesh, too, that his entire countenance presented a swollen and terrible appearance. It quite made Jeanette shudder to behold it. 
                
               "Come, now!" said he, stooping down to lay hold of her. "You'll go along with me now, I guess. Ralph Runnion don't never make no such mistakes as to go so far arter a gal, and then leave her behind, arter all! No, no; no such sort of a man as that is Ralph Runnion!" 
               The girl would have risen hastily and pushed away from him, but he held her fast in his vice-like grasp. 
               She attempted to scream. He placed his great palm tightly over her mouth. 
               Then giving a low whistle with his lips, he looked off into the woods. In a moment the form of a negro was seen approaching from out the thicket. 
               "Come, Cully!" called the renegade. 
               "Yi, yi!" answered the negro. 
               The poor captive tried to protest, but they would not hear a word.-The fellow only reminded her continually that that black devil couldn't come in to her rescue now. 
               To scream would have been fruitless. So she was compelled to submit to being tied, and in this sorry plight marched off between them, in great fear, into the distant woods. Her agony was almost insupportable. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE AMBUSCADE. 
               THERE was a party of people moving slowly along up the bank of the Mohawk late in the Spring of the same year with our story, apparently in pursuit of a new home, farther removed from civilization. Whether their purpose was to go where they might enjoy a larger liberty of conscience, or to purchase and settle upon new and virgin lands, that had not yet been exhausted with culture, or to enter upon the hardships and privations of border life for the sole pleasure of the thing itself, it might have been difficult to tell. And it is of little consequence in connexion with the present narrative. 
               There were six of them in all, and they appeared both contented and happy. 
               It was about the sunset hour, when they came to a halt, and thought of forming the encampment for the night. The slanting rays of the sun fell sweetly upon the river, and lodged like golden arrows in the lofty tree-tops. They shed a bright halo about the company, who looked at each other with a new delight, feeling that this was but one of the many calm glories of a wilderness life. 
               They drew up their wagons in a circle, so as to form a sort of park, or enclosure, about them, in which they made preparations for their night's repose. The horses were carefully fed and refreshed with water, and then secured near the camping ground with tethers. 
               They sat down at last to their evening meal, and one of the company invoked the blessing of Heaven on their repast. He was evidently a clergyman from his manners, and from the silent deference the rest of the party habitually paid him. 
               Seated around the simple board, were this clergyman-whose name was Mason-his wife, another gentleman named Wilson, with his wife and a young lady, an adopted daughter, and the merchant and miser, James Grandison. 
               The latter individual had evidently taken advantage of the moving of this little party from New York into the settlements of the Mohawk, to prosecute a journey he had for some time promised himself among the Indians. Why this journey had been delayed so long, was better known to himself, of course, than to any one else. He seemed much at his ease, and evidently meant to make the best of things as they came along in due course. 
               It was quite as plain, too, that he was no stranger in these sparsely settled regions, as his familiar conversation with the rest respecting them betrayed. He assured the party that he, too, was on the most friendly terms with the Indians, and was abundantly possessed of their confidence; a fact which led them to congratulate themselves so much the more on their immunity from all danger. 
               After they had finished their meal, they continued sitting for some time about the fire they had kindled, and conversing on the topics of most immediate interest. They questioned Grandison much concerning the habits, and disposition, and modes of life, of the swarming tribes of Indians around them, and listened to such narrations as he was pleased to deliver, until quite a late hour. 
               He made their blood curdle, as if he took a solid delight in the thing, by telling them of the horrid cruelties of which he had seen the Indians guilty. He gave them vivid accounts of battles, and surprises, and ambuscades, and war-dances, till it seemed as if they must dream of nothing but painted savages all the night. 
               Not until the flames flickered, and the fire grew low, and finally smouldered in the dark ashes, did the men separate. The ladies had retired together, their husbands and friends having made them soft couches in the bodies of the canopied wagons. The men stretched themselves on the ground beneath their vehicles, first wrapping themselves however, in thick garments and furs. 
               When night had fallen, it curtained in six sleepers. 
               A band of Indians were likewise encamped at that same moment on one of the creeks that empty into the Mohawk. They must have been several miles away. 
               They were the same Indians of whom mention was made in a former chapter. Grouped about their flaming fire, the dark forest forming a gloomy background, they presented the most fantastic picture imaginable. 
               The silence that brooded over them was but rarely disturbed; and then only by the voice of the chief. He sat apart from the rest, his eyes resting alternately upon the playing fire and the solemn forest. 
               There was a sleeping fire in his eye, that showed likewise a slumbering demon in his heart. He seemed restive and ill at ease, constantly turning his head about him, as if he feared, or expected the approach of some one. 
               The rest of the party had smoked their pipes in peace. He could not smoke his. The smoke-clouds were not potent to soothe the unquiet thoughts that poured through his brain. They had no spell to bind the poorly concealed tumult of his heart. 
               But a brief time had this party been settled in their emcampment, when they glanced at each other simultaneously, as if listening. 
               The chief placed his finger to his lips, and instantly rose to listen himself. 
               A snapping of the twigs was heard in the darkness, and forthwith every one of them sprang to his feet. 
               Immediately the dusky form of one of their own race appeared from the darkness, and moved silently into their midst. 
               "Oneko!" exclaimed the chief. 
               "Wissamisset!" was the intruder's reply. 
               Forthwith they all gathered about Oneko, and made ready to hear what he had to report. It appeared as if they confided much in his skill to bring them intelligence of what was going on; and they freely betrayed the intense interest they felt in what he was about to tell them. 
               "Where does Oneko come from?" at length began the chief, Wissamisset. 
               "From the river," answered Oneko. "The night is dark. The waters are still." 
               "Is there news in the hand of Oneko for Wissamisset and his braves?" 
               "Oneko bears tidings," was the instant reply. 
               "What tidings does Oneko bring?" asked the chief. 
               "There are pale faces coming up the water." 
               "Where?" 
               "They sleep in their camp now." 
               "Where?" persisted the chief. 
               "On the bank, many miles away," was Oneko's answer. 
               "How many of the pale faces sleep?" 
               "Six; one-two-three-six," said Oneko. 
               "Where do they go?" asked the interrogator. 
               "To the village of the many pale faces beyond." 
               "Are there squaws and papooses?" 
               "Three squaws, one young and fair as the spring-flower; no papooses." 
               "How many men?" asked the chief. 
               "Just as many," answered Oneko. 
               "Did Oneko bring tidings of them to Wissamisset? Knows he the face of one?" 
               "Yes, of one," he answered. 
               "Can Oneko tell?" 
               "He was the pale face who sends the fire-water." 
               The chief started. 
               "He has not been here for many moons," continued Oneko. 
               Wissamisset shook his head despairingly. 
                
               It was plain that their conversation referred only to the trader, James Grandison-one of the encamping party of which we have just spoken. 
               Presently the chief lifted his head from his downcast attitude, and addressed his followers:- 
               "The night is dark. Wild Medicine has said the Great Spirit chides, because the red man forgets to use the knife, and hangs no fresh scalps about his loins. 
               "The Great Spirit would have the red man on the war path again. He turns his face away, and hides it in the clouds. He does not smile with his sunshine, as he has always done before! 
               "Wissamisset calls on his braves. He calls them to tighten their belts, and whet their knives on the smooth stones. He looks at them now, and tells them that he is their chief. They will follow him! 
               "The trail can be followed. Oneko will show the path. Wissamisset tells his braves to keep close at his heels. He tells them that the red man must have revenge. It is sweet to him. It is like his life!" 
               Without another word, the chief moved majestically out of the encampment. 
               Oneko led the path, and the rest of the party followed their leader. 
               They travelled on in solemn silence for many a mile. The sky was cloudy, but the moon, now in her wane, broke occasionally through the clouds, and sent a flood of silver radiance down into the heart of the forest. 
               No wind stirred the dark masses of leaves, or even sighed among the thickly growing and interlacing branches. Only the dried sticks crackled beneath their steady tread. 
               They occasionally cast their copper visages up at the sky, as if to study the aspects and portents of the clouds; and the glistening moon fell on their faces with a bewildering effect indeed. 
               There was no sign-no wind-no mark-no foot-print, however slight, that was not observed by them. They gave everything in their path a careful scrutiny. 
               At length they halted. They had reached a little valley, at the boundary of which they paused. 
               The ripple of the Mohawk fell upon their ears, and inspirited them. The wind had all gone down. 
               Wissamisset spake, addressing Oneko. His voice was in a whisper. 
               "Has Oneko guided us right?" 
               The Indian addressed made no immediate reply, but continued silent and thoughtful. 
               "Has Oneko come right?" repeated the chief. 
               This is the place," at once replied Oneko, finishing his scrutinizing survey. "They sleep there," added he, pointing in the direction of the glen with his finger. 
               "Enough!" said Wissamisset. 
               Giving secret orders to his followers, he forthwith advanced slowly with Oneko to the spot. They crept at length close to the place where the unsuspecting persons slept, fearing so much as to break a twig, or rustle a leaf. 
               After a careful survey had been made about the spot, they returned to the rest, who still remained at a distance. 
               Wissamisset spake a few words to them in a low tone, and then all separated. 
               For some time, all was breathlessly still. The faint roar of the water, as it dashed over ragged rocks, or swashed against uneven shores, fell like strains of music on their ears. The moon straggled along among the broken clouds, lighting up the place with a fitful and almost unearthly gleam. 
               The sleepers lay encamped in a natural valley, that sloped away again to the river's edge. On the side where the Indians were in ambush, the little height was crowned with a thick belt of wood, running almost round the place. The coppice was full of shadows and spectral gloom. 
               From so profound a silence the sleepers were suddenly aroused by a cry, so loud, so shrill, so piercing, that it seemed to reach the very sky and pierce the vault of heaven itself. It was like a cry of wild agony. It rose like the slow motions of the thunder-gust, and swelled, and rose, and swelled until the air, the forest, and the heavens, seemed alive with nothing but the yell. 
               It was as if it came from the throat of demons. It smote their ears with a power they had never known before. It chilled their hearts with its wildness. It curdled their blood as it flowed in their veins. 
               The war-cry had sounded that fearful cry. The cry that has startled so many a quiet sleeper, from dreams of security to the glare of the death-fires or the glistening of the fatal scalping-knife. The cry that has awakened so many from the sweetness of repose to the horrors of a cruel and bloody death. The cry that has tempted so many to rush frantically into the flames, rather than yield themselves to the still fiercer tortures of the savage. 
               The sleeping men instantly sprang to their feet. 
               James Grandison was foremost among them to think of his danger, and he stood paralyzed with fear. 
               The Indians had encircled them on all sides, and there was no possibility of escape. They kept up their fiendish yell, too, and the fear of the prisoners became greater with each moment. It seemed to be only a terrible and tantalizing prelude to a more terrible death. 
               Suddenly the whole body of Indians rushed simultaneously in upon the band of whites, before they could get their firearms even in readiness for defence. They were two to one. 
               Springing upon the two men, they secured them in a moment. It evidently had been the order of Wissamisset to his followers, that they should take the party captive. And they accordingly showed no signs of employing the tomahawk. 
               The females, who had now become thoroughly alarmed, sprang to their feet, and, with livid lips, shrieked at the top of their voices. They had heard of these surprises from the Indians, but this was their first experience with them. 
               The Indians themselves, after they had firmly secured their prisoners prisoners, said not a syllable. They went about the work for arranging all for an immediate march, and then awaited the order of their chieftain. 
               Wissamisset approached the trader, Grandison. Just at that moment, the silvery moon broke out again through the drifting clouds, and its pale light fell full upon the terrified man's face. 
               He looked up at the person who stood before him. He knew Wissamisset, and his frame shook like the leaf of an aspen. 
               "Ha! ha!" scornfully laughed the chieftain, in his face. "I have you now!" 
               "Wissamisset!" exclaimed Grandison, prayerfully. "We are friends! I bring presents!" 
               "Wissamisset scorns the gifts of the black heart!" replied the Indian, with fervor. 
               "We are friends! We are friends, not enemies," plead the trader. "The noble chief will not bind the pale face who is his brother. Wissamisset will not betray." 
               "The red man never forgets!" exclaimed the Indian, his features working with rage. 
               Meantime the other two male prisoners were pleading to quite as little effect. The clergyman did not evidently understand the art of persuasion among the untutored red men quite as well as with the pale faces. He entreated to no purpose, to be released from a thraldom which he most seriously observed was quite improper and undeserved. 
               Mr. Wilson, the other gentleman, was too badly terrified to say much, but seemed to confide greatly in the power of his friend's persuasion. He gave him frequent and expressively anxious looks, as if he would have him understand how entirely his own fate hung upon the honeyed accents of his tongue. 
               As for the ladies, they continued screaming and crying alternately. If such a mode of proceeding ever had any weight with a copper-colored Indian, they certainly had a right to expect that their fate would be none other than an agreeable one. 
               The captors, however, packed upon the backs of horses what baggage might be of service, and marched off into the forest. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               VENGEANCE. 
               THE Indians proceeded for many a weary mile with their captives, few of them making any attempt at conversation. 
               The young girl, one of the captives, was the most frightened at the events of the night, not daring to entertain the hope that she should ever escape from the cruel power of her captors. 
               So complete was the mystery in which they were enshrouded respecting their present course, or the disposition that was to be made of them, that they might truly have been said to die a thousand deaths, in their horrors of the one to which they looked forward with such certainty. 
               The night wore away slowly and painfully. The journey was persevered in with unbroken energy and industry. The savages were seen holding frequent consultations with each other respecting their course, and their frightful glances backward upon the party served not a little to heighten their terror. 
               Soon after the march had begun, too, the moon went down behind the forest, leaving them enshrouded in the thickest gloom. But their captors still kept on in their course. They walked silently amidst the lofty trees, and through the dark ravines, and along the close defiles. 
               Morning dawned. The gray streaks of light stole up over the edge of the eastern horizon, pointing with their far-reaching fingers to the zenith. 
               The dews lay on the blades in the open clearings, and on the low intervals, and hung like diamonds from the tips of the million leaves. Everything smelt of freshness. A new strength seemed in the very air. 
               But none of these sweet and refreshing influences were for the poor captives. They beheld these charming scenes, and drank in these ennobling sights, not with a new buoyancy of spirits, but in the melancholy thought of being on their way to death. 
               When the sun had just arisen, and the forest was all a-glow with the piercing bars of golden sunshine, their captors came to a halt, and began consulting in low and undistinguishable whispers. 
               At length one of them pushed on before the rest at a rapid pace, as if the business was of urgency. The chief made signs for them all to start forward again, which, tired, jaded, and frightened as they were, they were obliged without protestations to do. 
               Before they had travelled a great distance, and just when they reached a little defile, where the night air was yet lying cool and fresh upon the leaves, they were met by the Indian who had gone forward but a short time before. He came hurrying back toward the party, and immediately whispered something to their leader. 
               His response must have been satisfactory, for he began at once to expand his muscular frame, and to renew his energy. His head, likewise, was moving approvingly towards his informer, and they both pointed frequently before them. 
               Finally they reached the edge of the wood, and the prospect of a clearing broke on their vision. They could see nothing, however, very distinctly, only that a new and broader light dawned upon them. 
               As they came nearer the edge of the clearing, they were able to discover what appeared to them to be the remains of a block fort, but which in reality, was a fort itself. Near by the Mohawk curved and rolled away, glistening and sparkling in the morning sun like some scaly serpent. 
               Coming at once out of the forest, they now proceeded across the plain, or interval, to the building in question. It was, of course, of rude construction, and abundantly protected by palisades and embankments. As they reached the outer gate, they were met by a party of soldiers, wild and strange-looking beings, who had come out to escort them in. These soldiers greeted the Indians with much familiarity, being seemingly on the best of terms with them. 
               The prisoners were carried within the block house, and there secured. 
               Wissamisset had gone into another room, where he was holding a conference with Colonel Bryant, a British officer. This place, in fact, was only a garrison, held by the united forces of British and Indians. 
               "Do you know that these are Americans?" inquired that officer. "Are you quite certain about it?" 
               Wissamisset assured him that he only believed they were, except the trader. 
               "I would be certain of that first," said the officer. "It would be wrong to be too hasty about it. There should be no mistake." 
               "My pale faced brother shall ask them," said the chieftain, advancing toward the door. 
               "Bring them in, then," said Colonel Bryant. 
               Wissamisset was gone but a short time and returned with the clergyman, Mr. Mason. He then left them alone together. 
               The day within and about the fort was passed by the Indians much as they chose. They indulged in games with each other, for the gratification of the British garrison, upon the glade before the fortification, wrestling, throwing quoits with unerring skill, feigning the realities of the war dance, and doing a hundred other things, all equally new and exciting to their spectators. 
               In all these sports, however, Wissamisset was seen to take no part. Standing aside by himself, his spirit seemed wrapped in the profundity of gloom. He was silent, reserved, and sullen. His thoughts were turned to some past wrong, whose memory he was not able to root out. 
               Just as the sunset hour drew on, and the vicinity of the stockade began to look inviting and peaceful, the uniforms of the soldiers glittering in the slanting light, and the drum rolling solemnly the evening call through the wilderness, the Indians, headed by their chief, again sallied forth from the enclosure. This time, however, they had no prisoner with them but Grandison. The others had been left behind in the care of the garrison. 
               The commander had satisfied his allies that the party were only a party of quiet and peaceable emigrants from New York, and furthermore, that they were friends of the same king for whom the red men fought. With this they seemed satisfied. 
               But when James Grandison, the trader, was brought before him, Colonel Bryant listened to his appeals, protestations, and prayers, almost without being influenced by them. Grandison tried to persuade him that he was a friend of the king, and a friend of the red men, too. But the wily Indian had had a talk with the commandant beforehand, and influenced him to decide that the trader should be delivered up to them, on account of some great wrong he had previously done, and for which he now intended to hold him to account. It was a sort of compromise between the two parties, whereby the greater part of their captives were left at the fort, on condition that the trader alone was given up. 
               They had bound their prisoner's arms securely by his side with thongs made of deer skin, and walked in a body about him. He looked morose and sullen. To appear downcast, would have been to hasten the doom that impended over him. 
               Travelling along by the river bank for perhaps three miles, in a downward direction, they reached another encampment. Oneko was sent in as a messenger, and instantly all the braves, with their bound victim, marched after him. All this while there had been no word spoken. 
               The fires had just been kindled, and there were many dusky men standing around them. When the prisoner was led in his eyes ran quickly and fearfully around them. 
               Wissamisset held a talk for a long time with several of the aged chiefs, from which he broke off suddenly to advance upon his prisoner. Taking him by the shoulder, he conducted him, without saying a word, into the midst of the encampment. 
               The eyes of nearly a hundred men were upon him. They glared fiercely in the firelight, as if they would burn his very heart. He could not repress a shudder, as he contemplated their hideous expressions. 
               "The pale face is at last here," spake Wissamisset, addressing his brethren, and pointing to the trader. "Wissamisset has brought in the pale face into the camp. His red brothers will remember. The pale face is he who stole away the heart of the Spring Flower from her lodge, and the Spring Flower faded and went away to the shadow land. What says the pale face?" 
               "Wissamisset is wrong!" replied the captive. "Wissamisset is wrong. He brings fire-water in his boats, to make the hearts of the red men brave and strong. He is the red man's friend. He is the friend of Wissamisset." 
               "There is deceit beneath the tongue of the pale face," said the chief. "He knows how to speak two things at a time." 
               "When did the red man ever hear me speak false? When was deceit under my tongue?" 
               "Does not the pale face know that he stole into the lodge of Wissamisset, and took the heart of the fair Spring Flower? Does he deny that!" 
               Grandison was silent. 
               "Does he know that he promised to make the Spring Flower his squaw, when another half-score of moons had gone? Did the pale face do as he promised?" 
               No answer. 
               "The Spring Flower braided her long dark hair with the white lilies for many moons, sitting in the door of her lodge. She waited for the suns to go down, and waited for them to come up over the eastern forest. But the pale face came not. The frail Spring Flower grew sad. She was much alone by the water courses, and in the deep forest. She pined every day. There was no sleep for her dark eye at night. She was 
                     like like
                     like
                   one that neither slept nor waked. She sang sweet songs to the winds, and plucked fresh leaves, and bound them in wreaths around her head, and she pined and went into the shadow land, and the leaves were yet fresh on her temples, and the songs yet new on her lips. What says the pale face to this? why did he leave the dark maiden to pine and sing alone, and twine wreaths for her own temples, and go unbidden to the shadow land!" 
               "Let the red man listen," replied Grandison. 
               "The pale face is the friend of the red man. He serves the same king. He worships the same Great Spirit. He gives his red brother the brave fire water, that makes his heart strong. He knows the heart of his red brother, and is his friend. Let there be no difference between them!" 
               "But what says the pale face to the Flower of the Spring? Why answers he not to that? Why stole he away the heart of the Spring Flower, so that the Spring Flower pined and went into the shadow land? Will he tell that?" 
               "He will. The pale face used no deceit. He came with no lie on his lips." 
               "The pale face has a forked tongue, like the serpent's. He tells two stories to the red man. He is not the red man's friend!" 
               "Not so," returned Grandison. "The red man is his friend. He delights to call him brother. The pale face won the heart of the fair Spring Flower, because he was beloved. He could not help it. He promised to return to the fair Spring Flower in a half score of moons. He should have returned before, but the pale faces, his brothers, kept him back, so that he could not come. The pale face hoped to see the Spring Flower now." 
               "He lies!" exclaimed Wissamisset. "There is no truth on his tongue!" 
               "The red man judges hard." 
               "He does not judge wrong! When was there a time when the stranger was not welcome to the lodge of Wissamisset? When refused his squaws their smiles for his eye? When went away the stranger empty?" 
               "Wissamisset speaks truly. Never did the stranger go to his lodge in vain. Wissamisset is the master with the open heart. His fair Spring Flower was very fair. And the pale face, his brother, sorrows to know that she has gone into the silent shadow land." 
               "My brother lies again! He does not sorrow for the frail Spring Flower. He would have kept his word, and she would not have vanished from the lodge of her sorrowing father. She is in the happy hunting-ground, where is sunshine, and where flowers grow on the banks." 
               "So does the white man hope," said the artful trader. 
               "But the red man had a dream," continued Wissumisset, after a thoughtful pause. 
               "And what was the red man's dream?" 
               "It was of Manitou and the Spring Flower. The frail Spring Flower came back again to her lodge!" 
               "And what spake her shadowy voice?" inquired Grandison. 
               "It was of her pining away." 
               "Was she in the hunting-grounds with the other Indian maidens?" pursued Grandison, hoping to draw off his enemy from his purpose. 
               "The dark maiden roamed in the pleasant hunting-grounds, with the other Indian maidens. She was happy. She looked with her dark, shadowy eyes through a cloud, at Wissamisset." 
               "Did she speak?" 
                
               "She whispered in a soft voice to Wissamisset, and told him not to sorrow that she could not come back again to his lodge." 
               "Poor Spring Flower!" ejaculated the trader. 
               "She would be all happy in her new hunting-grounds, only she weeps for the pale face who stole her heart." 
               "Poor maiden!" 
               "She wanted Wissamisset to find the pale face, and tell him what was her grief. It would grow big till she could roam with the pale face again." 
               Grandison only shook his head. 
               "If the pale face she loved, could go to her in the shadow land, she would be all happy. And then her eyes went out from the cloud, and she spake no more." 
               The white man was plunged in thought. 
               "The Great Spirit, too," continued the chieftain, "has spoken to Wissamisset, in a bright dream." 
               "And what said the Great Spirit?" inquired the sobered trader, glad to break the troublesome silence. 
               "That the pale face must go to the pleasant hunting-ground, to meet the Spring Flower. He tells Wissamisset, in his dream, that the time has come when the leaves are all fresh and green. It is that time now. The Spring Flower sorrows much for the lover she left behind, when she went away into the shadow land. She would take his hand once more, and roam over the banks, and wash their feet in the cold streams, and make bunches of flowers, and wreaths of green leaves for her temples." 
               The trader dared not look up to meet the stern and fixed eye of the chieftain. 
               "Yes, the great Spirit has ordered it; and what the great Spirit says, must be so. He has said that the pale face who comes into our camping-grounds shall go to meet the young Spring Flower, while she yet is blooming, and before she fades again. The pale face must do as the Great Spirit bids. Does he hear Wissamisset?" 
               Grandison's eye raised suddenly from the ground as the last words of his interrogator fell on his ear. He immediately answered- 
               "He hears." 
               "And will he obey?" asked the chieftain. 
               "That he cannot do. His red brother mistakes the words of the Great Spirit. He did not listen right." 
               "It is not so. He heard the Great Spirit right. The pale face lies!" 
               "He lies not!" said the trader, trying to face himself out of the difficulty. "He heard what the Great Spirit said himself!" 
               "Now does the white man lie," rejoined Wissamisset. "He speaks the truth no more! The white man has not seen the Great Spirit!" 
               "He has!" 
               "When saw he the Great Spirit?" 
               "Last night only, when he slept in the camp," answered the trader. 
               "Did he hear him speak?" 
               "He did." 
               "And what said he, then?" asked the chieftain, his eyes glowing with an intense expression of scorn. 
               "That the pale face must come and make peace with the red man, and bring him the fire-water to strengthen his heart and make him more brave." 
               "He lies again! The cowardly pale face lies again!" exclaimed Wissamisset. 
               "He lies not," replied the trader. "There is no deceit in his tongue. His lips speak true." 
               "The white man's tongue is a forked tongue," said the chieftain, "like a serpent's. He speaks two truths. They kill each other. There is no peace in the white man's words." 
               "How knows my red brother, then?" asked the captive, willing to prolong his examination as long as possible. 
               "By the bad fire in his eye. By the bad words that drop from his lips." 
               "It is not so." 
               "Has the Great Spirit said that the white man should bring his red brother fire water? When did he tell him so?" 
               'When he came to him in his dream." 
               "It is a black lie! The words stick in the mouth of the white man." 
               "He has told the pale face, too, that the red man should be his friend." 
               "And said he a word to the dreaming white man about the Spring Flower?" 
               "He said not a word in the dream," replied the trader. 
               "Now does the white man truly lie!" replied the Indian. "He shall be punished." 
               "The Great Spirit will be angry," said Grandison, trying the virtue of threats. 
               "Yes; but only with the white man," returned the Indian. "The Great Spirit is the red man's friend, and the red man looks in the deep sky and reads his letters of fire in the clouds. The red man can interpret. He knows the words of the Great Spirit." 
               Grandison relapsed suddenly into silence. 
               "The pale face," continued the chieftain, "must follow the Spring Flower into the hunting ground. He will meet her there. She waits for him, and beckons with her shadowy hand. She grieves sorely that he does not come. She has watched so many round moons, but he comes not; and she grieves and sings sad songs, and wonders when he will come to greet her, and to walk with her all through the Shadow Land. 
               "There is no more rest for Wissamisset till the Spring Flower is made happy. His nights are without sleep. He lies in his lodge with his little ones, and counts the stars with his quick eye. He rises from his rest, and wanders into the deep forest. And the shadowy hand of the Spring Flower beckons to him, and a still voice begs him to send the pale lover to his dusky mistress. The Great Spirit has spoken to Wissamisset, too, and the word of his lips shall be kept. Wissamisset has promised in his heart. There is no turning in him. 
               "Warriors! chieftains! Shall the words of the Great Spirit be kept? Shall the pale face go into the shadow land to greet his dusky mate? Will the brave warriors with the strong heart speak? Wissamisset listens." 
                
               One of the most aged of the chiefs forthwith stepped out before the prisoner, and addressed him. The younger warriors stood around them in a large circle, and kept their fierce eyes fixed intently on the form of the captive. 
               The aged warrior spake thus:- 
               "Let the pale face hear! The Great Spirit has spoken! The lodge of Wissamisset has lost its fair Flower of the Spring, and the fires on the hearth are gone out. The heart of the dusky maiden has been wooed, and the pale face made a promise. He has not kept his promise. He has forgotten it. His memory is not long. He is not true, because he forgets. But the red man will make him remember! 
               "As the Great Spirit has spoken, so shall it be. As the Spring Flower has bidden, so shall it be done. The red man pants no more for war, till the spirits of his maidens are happy in the distant shadow land. He will go no more on the war path till the dusky maidens roam over the happy hunting grounds in peace. He will hang no more scalps about his belt, till the loved ones are at rest. No more will he take prisoners, or receive the reward, till there is complaint in the hunting ground no more. 
               "The pale face has not kept his word-let him be punished. His dusky lover calls him, and beckons to him with her shadowy hand. He shall go. He shall be always with her, and the spirit of the fair Spring Flower shall be happy. The words of the Great Spirit shall be kept. They shall not be broken!" 
               For a little time there appeared to be a close consultation among the chieftains respecting the matter. They talked together with eagerness and in all serious meaning. Presently they separated again, and one of them spake to Grandison as follows: 
               Has the pale face anything to say? If he has, let his mouth be opened. He shall not talk long to the braves that stand around him." 
               "Nothing," replied the beset trader, feigning firmness; but it was stolidity only. 
               "Then the death song shall be sung!" said the chieftain. 
               "The pale face has fire-water; will the red man drink?" asked the trader, dexterously striving to win the chieftains away from their purpose. 
               "No!" exclaimed the chieftain indignantly. "The pale face shall go to the shadow land. Let him make himself ready to hear his death song!" 
               The warriors now gathered closer about their prisoner, eager to take a part in the services that were to celebrate his starting on his long journey. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE STAKE-THE UNEXPECTED DELIVERANCE. 
               IT was still night in the forest by the Mohawk. The few fires that blazed in the encampment, lit up the countenances of the savages with a demoniacal ferocity. The torches, too, that glared about the wilderness, as if peopling it with a legion of fire-fiends, added but an intensity and a strange wildness to the gloom. The savages looked more diabolical than ever in their flaring, flickering light. The forest leaves seemed like a dense canopy of darkness. 
               The stake had been prepared. The savages were all gathering round it, old and young. Their eyes were gleaming fiercely in the half-lit darkness. 
               The wild and melancholy death-song had been sung. Its echoes were yet alive in the arches, and aisles, and recesses of the forest. They surged, and rose, and swelled on the mysterious night-winds, mournfully. 
               The unhappy victim was bound to the stake, where he writhed and wrestled with his agony. The death-song had rung in his ears. He knew that his last hour had come. Wood was piled freely about him, and torches were set of brush and dry branches. The fire was ready to be applied. 
               Already they had begun the cruel and mocking insults. Even the youth of the nation gathered closely around the victim, and hurled epithets in his face, or poked at him tantalizingly with long and sharp-pointed sticks. The women, too, insulted him with jokes and jibes, and remorselessly spit upon him, or struck his face with the backs of their hands. 
               Still he endured it all. He was stolid in his new suffering. Though his soul was rent with agony-the agony both of suffering and of fear-yet no cry escaped his lips. Not so much as a groan. Not even a prayer for mercy from his infuriated enemies. If he had shown such weakness of heart, his fate would assuredly have been more certain. He could not by supplication have excited pity; it would have been only contempt and increased exasperation. 
               A warrior advanced from the crowd at length, and addressed him:- 
               "Let the pale face call on the Great Spirit now! Perhaps He will come to him, as he did in his dream!" 
               The victim bore the taunt without a word, or even returning a look. 
               "Will the pale face call on the Great Spirit now?" continued the chieftain. "Will the Great Spirit talk with him, as he talked in his dream! Let the pale face answer!" 
               The victim made no reply. He knew it would be of no service. 
               "The pale face is a lying dog!" shouted the warrior; and he came still nearer to him, and slapped him savagely across his face with the back of his hand. 
                
               The captive, however, only writhed anew under the torture. He essayed not to speak. He tried to act the part of a brave man, and thought not to flinch from his suffering. But his nature was weak. He was not trained to the sullen endurance of the Indian. 
               He tried to return the warrior a fierce look with his flashing eyes; but fear was predominant there. He would have spat upon him in return, but his courage was worsted by his nervousness. 
               Another warrior advanced from the crowd toward him. He addressed him thus:- 
               "The coward pale face came to the red man's lodge, and stole away the red man's squaw! He left the heart of the dusky maiden desolate in her lodge! The Great Spirit made the red men, and placed them a great way off from the pale faces! He placed the big lake between them!-He meant not for them to live together! He knew they were not meant to be friends! 
               "Yet the pale face creeps like a wolf to the door of the red man's lodge, bringing him presents, and stealing away the hearts of the young Fawns and the Spring Flowers. He has angered the Great Spirit by doing so. He has promised to return in so many round moons; and he goes away and forgets his promise. And the dusky maiden pines that the pale face does not return, and counts the rising of the round moon. And at last she smiles on the faces of all within her lodge, and vanishes away in the cloud. And the lodge of her friends is left desolate! 
               "The Great Spirit meant not for the pale faces and the red men to live together. The red men are falling to the earth, like the leaves of the autumn forest. They melt before the coming of the white man, as the snows melt before the breath of the sun. Their graves are in every forest. The pale face cannot count them, for number! 
               "Let the white dog die, then! He deserves not to live! Let the red man dig up the hatchet again! The pale faces shall become few! There shall be enmity between them and the red men! They shall be friends no more! We will use the hatchet, till it is red with blood. The scalps shall hang from a thousand trees. We will kill till there be none left. Let the pale face dog turn his face to the sky, and see the darkness that shall come on all his race!" 
               He ceased and retired. 
               Immediately another came forward, and began in his turn to address him:- 
               "The Great Spirit has called you to the dusky maiden. She has called you from the distant hunting-grounds, and her voice has been heard from the far-off shadow-land. The pale face must be glad in his heart that he will return to his maiden again. There will be much joy for him in the hunting-ground with his Indian love. He should feel proud that he is going to hunt with the spirits of the brave red men." 
               After this one had retired, Wissamisset came forward in front of the prisoner, and looking him sternly in the eye while his torch flared wildly in the darkness over his head, he said in a fierce tone: 
               "Wissamisset has promised the Great Spirit that the pale faced trader should be sent after the Spring Flower. What Wissamisset has promised, shall surely be done. He has not shut his eyes in sleep since the Spring Flower left his lodge, and vanished away into the shadow land. He sees her eyes in the clouds every day. He hears her sighs in the cool nightwind. He catches her voice in the darkness, when he lies awake and counts the stars in the midnight sky. 
               "She calls and grieves for her pale face lover. She beckons for him with her shadowy hand. Wissamisset hears her tongue, and he has promised her that her lover shall meet her soon in the hunting-ground. It shall be so. What Wissamisset has spoken, shall be so. The pale face has a double tongue. He speaks no truth. His tongue is a forked tongue. Let him die-the Great Spirit has ordered it!" 
               Wissamisset turned again and mingled with the crowd. His heart felt relieved of its great weight. 
               Then commenced the dance; a performance which, for its wildness and demoniacal characteristics, could be compared to nothing that had ever before been seen on earth. The night too, greatly heightened the terror of the scene. It smote fearfully on the heart of poor Grandison. 
               It was as if a legion of fiends had been let loose from Pandemonium. They joined hands, and danced, and whooped, and yelled around their prisoner. Their voices went up like dying shrieks on the midnight air. They distorted their faces terribly, making the most hideous grimaces at their victim. 
               This scene continued nearly an hour. During all this time the features of Grandison relaxed not a muscle. He strove hard to appear indifferent. Perhaps too, the strife was not long continued; for his fears had rendered him stolid-hearted already. He could not fully comprehend the death that was ready for him. 
               As they danced, and sang, and yelled around his pinioned body, they thrust out their torches with their billowy flames into his face, and delighted themselves with the shudder that ran sensibly through his frame. They looked as if they were devils, celebrating the orgies of the lowest pit. 
               At length they desisted for a moment, and an aged chief advanced close to him, and said something in a low voice in his ear. He could not fully understand the meaning of the Indian jargon, but gathered enough of it to know that his hour was well-nigh expired. It made him tremble from head to foot. He sent up a prayer to Heaven-a prayer that even tortured him more than his sufferings-and resigned himself to his impending fate. 
               Wissamisset, at this point, again advanced from the crowd of savages, and, holding his torch above his head, thus addressed him:- 
               "The pale face shall suffer because he deserves it all. He bears it bravely; as bravely as the red man. He does not flinch from the torture. He does not cry like a young squaw. His lips are not white, like the cheek of a lily. But yet the pale face must die! 
               "The Spring Flower is no longer in the lodge of her father. She has vanished away, where Wissamisset can behold her eyes only in the cloud. He cannot hear her voice, except when it whispers like soft music in the night-wind. The heart of Wissamisset is very lone. He cannot forget the smile of the young Spring Flower that has left his lodge. 
               "The fair Spring Flower pined for her pale-faced lover. She was like the dove that mourned all the day for her mate. She grew sad, and grief ate away her heart. Her eyes grew darker, till they looked like spirit-eyes, looking through a fleecy cloud. She remembered the promise of the pale face, and watched for him long. She counted the moons, and tried to read the messages of her far off lover in the stars. The moons have gone round many times since then. Many snows have fallen silently in the deep forest. The pale face has forgot his promise, but the red man never forgets. Wissamisset has a memory that is long! 
               "You have done much wrong, and the Great Spirit is very angry. The Spring Flower longs to have you come. Her heart is very sad. Its music is sorrowful. It waits for the heart of the pale face, that he may make its music sweet again. She came to me in a dream, and said that she yearned for the soft words of the white trader. They gave delight to her ears. 
               "The pale face must go. He must feel glad in his heart, that the Great Spirit will admit him to the hunting-grounds of the red man, and the Spring Flower will rejoice that her lover has come back after so many moons. The white trader shall hear the echoes of his death-song, till he enters the verge of the shadow-land. There will be many warriors there to greet him. 
               "Wissamisset himself will chant the death-song of the white trader. He is proud that his pale brother has no fear. He feels glad that he does not cry out like a squaw. The fire-torture shall soon be over. The pale face shall soon be in the border of the shadow-land." 
               When Wissamisset had finally concluded this passionate speech, his eyes still dilating and sparkling with the intensity of his emotions, they all broke forth in the chant of another chorus. The discord was wild and terrific, in the heart of the forest. 
               A warrior now advanced with his torch, and stooped down to apply it to the faggots that were piled about the body of their prisoner. The eyes of all the Indians were fixed upon the victim. 
               Suddenly a noise was heard from the thicket in the distance. The Indians at once started, and turned their eyes instantaneously in that direction. 
               A wild-looking being, with long white locks, slouched hat, and grotesquely combined garments, sprang quickly out from the forest, and dashed up to the prisoner. With the rifle which he carried in his hand, he knocked the lighted torch of the warrior from his hand, and scattered the piled up faggots far and near. The deed was so sudden that it could not have been prevented by the most active vigilance. 
               A cry of astonishment instantly burst from the lips of the entire body of Indians. They were not prepared to be thus defrauded of the enjoyment of their sacrifice. 
               The individual, however, who had thus unceremoniously thrust himself between the Indians and their victim seemed entirely competent to keep his ground. With an imperious wave of his long arm in which he carried his rifle, he kept them all back, and majestically stood before his friend, the prisoner. 
               The intruder was Wild Medicine! 
               When the wonder and indignation of all was at the highest pitch, he thus addressed them, employing the most passionate and vehement gestures:- 
                
               "Back! Back! Wissamisset! The prisoner belongs to the Wild Medicine!" 
               The eyes of the victim had now caught the expression of his deliverer's countenance, and he trembled suddenly like an aspen leaf! 
               There might have been something in the wild gleam of his eyes, that struck terror to the prisoner's soul. Or it might have been the strange appearance of the intruder's entire person, that overcame him with fear. Or he might have thus unexpectedly seen the realization of some fatal dream, and know that the hour was full of agony! 
               The Wild medicine continued:- 
               "No, Wissamisset! The prisoner is mine. Yes-mine! Warriors and Chieftains of the Onondaga! The victim belongs to the Wild Medicine! His scalp is mine! All the hairs of his head are mine! His looks-his voice-his heart-the breaths in his nostrils-are all mine! They belong to the Wild Medicine! He is mine in the dark forest! He is mine when he sleeps! He is mine always-everywhere-at all seasons of his life! 
               "His life is sweet to the Wild Medicine, just as his death may be sweet to the red man! He is the Wild Medicine's gift! Vengeance is as sweet to me as to the red man! The Great Spirit will not suffer him to escape me! He is mine!-yes, mine!" 
               He folded his arms now across his broad chest, and looked defiantly at the crowd gathered around him. Their superstition was momentarily got the advantage of by their rage at being thus cheated of their victim. 
               The chiefs grouped together, and began conversing excitedly upon the matter. They evidently had no friendly feelings just at that time for the man who had stept in between them and their victim. And the appearance of things certainly boded him no immediate good. 
               But the intruder was not in the least dismayed. He still kept his arms tightly folded across his breast, while his entire figure was expanded and drawn up to a truly majestic height. Though he well knew the imminent hazard to which he exposed himself, still he betrayed no sign of fear. Not a muscle quivered. Not a limb trembled. He gazed around upon the throng, as if he possessed a power and an authority much beyond that of their veteran chieftains. He seemed standing ready to listen calmly to what the warriors might reply to him. 
               One of the chiefs then turned upon him, and said in a loud tone- 
               "Why is the Wild Medicine here in the council, to put out the fires? Why does he think to cheat the brave Onondagas of their victim? Does he forget that there are many arrows in their hands? and that their tomahawks are dry for blood? Why does he come thus into their council?" 
               "The victim is mine!" exclaimed Wild Medicine, in reply. "The Great Spirit has given him to me! He has said that not a hair of his head shall be touched, save by the Wild Medicine! The breath in his nostrils is mine! It does not belong to the Onondaga! The Great Spirit has said it!" 
               "Why saith the Wild Medicine so? Does he forget that the Great Spirit has spoken to the red man, too?" 
               "By day and by night, the victim shall always be mine! He shall never escape me! He never has! Vengeance is as sweet to Wild Medicine, as to the red man!" 
               "No," returned the chieftain again; "Wissamisset has promised the pale face to the Great Spirit! The word of Wissamisset shall not be broken!" 
               "In the deep, still forest-by the roaring waters-in the gloom of midnight-by the glare of the broad noonday-the prisoner is mine! Every hair of his head-every breath of his nostrils-is mine! The vengeance of Wissamisset is not more dear to him than the vengeance of the Wild Medicine!" 
               "The Wild Medicine is the brother of the red man!" said the chieftain. 
               "So may he ever be!" 
               "He knows the tongue of the lying white trader to be a double tongue. Deceit sleeps beneath it." 
               "The red man has-spoken truly!" 
               "The white trader has done the Indian a great wrong. He has stolen away the heart of the young Spring Flower, and the lodge of Wissamisset is deserted. The white trader, with the forked tongue of the serpent shall die for this. He shall go to meet the spirit of the dusky maiden in the Shadow land!" 
               "No!-no!-no!" exclaimed the Wild Medicine. "The white trader is mine! The Great Spirit has said it! He shall go to the fire-agony for me! "Vengeance is sweet to the Wild Medicine!" 
               "It is a very great thing that the Wild Medicine asks," said the chieftain. Vengeance is as sweet to the Onondaga-to Wissamisset! Will my pale brother speak again?" 
               "He is mine!" replied the Wild Medicine. "He shall be ever mine! Night and day, he shall be mine! In the deep forest and by the still waters, he shall always be mine! I shall follow him with an eye that never sleeps!" 
               "Will the Wild Medicine speak? The ears of his red brother are open," said the chieftain. 
               "Yes; he will speak! The prisoner belongs to him! He shall go through the fire torture for him!" 
               "The tongue of the Wild Medicine is a strange tongue. The braves of the council listen, but do not understand. Will the Wild Medicine speak again?" 
               "Yes; he will speak again." 
               "The ears of the red men are open," said the chieftain. 
               "The ears of Wissamisset are open too!" said that warrior, advancing toward Wild Medicine. 
               "He is mine!" again spake the Wild Medicine. "Many snows back, he entered the lodge of the Wild Medicine, when he was smitten. He did him then a great wrong. The Wild Medicine cannot forget. He has lived these many summers, only to punish the wrong." 
               He paused. 
               "Will the Wild Medicine continue to speak?" asked the chieftain. "Our ears are open to your new tongue!" 
               "It will take much time to tell it all to my red brother. It is many words. The tale grieves my heart, that is now so sore. The Wild Medicine is very tired. He has come a great way. He needs food. Is there no venison hung up in the lodges of the red man?" 
               "Yes," answered the chieftain. "The Wild Medicine has come a long way in the forest. He shall eat." 
               "Let the red men hold another council, then," said Wild Medicine. "Come to the lodges. The Wild Medicine will eat venison, and then he shall tell his red brothers all. When the white smoke curls up from the council pipes, the doom of the white trader shall be settled. If I be wrong, the red man shall do what is right. He shall judge between me and my victim!" 
               With these words, he waited for the decision they would give him. 
               They began to show symptoms of dissatisfaction among themselves, before he had finished. Some of the younger warriors seemed loth that their orgies should be interrupted. 
               At length one of the chieftains spoke: 
               "It is well. Let the Wild Medicine be heard further. The warriors shall hear his words. Let us go to the lodge where is venison for the Wild Medicine." 
               Leading off, he enjoined the rest to follow him. They would know what further the Wild Medicine could say, why their victim should not suffer at their hands for the great wrong he had done Wissamisset. The prisoner was still left bound to the stake. 
               As they passed off towards the lodge, where they would take new council, the intruder went near the prisoner, and glaring fiercely in his face, said to him in a low voice: 
               "James Grandison, your time is not come yet. You are reserved for me! Your hairs are all mine! Fear nothing from these tortures! They cannot harm you! You are mine! I will cut your cords. There-go! But do not think to fly from me! You cannot escape me!" 
               Instantly he glided swiftly past him, and joined the Indians. 
               When they were seated in the lodge, the Wild Medicine began his story. It was a story of cruel and fearful wrongs, and made the hearts of his Indian hearers beat more quickly for vengeance. 
               While yet he held their rapt attention, there was heard a sudden cry in the forest near them. 
               The prisoner had escaped! 
               Wissamisset sprang to his feet, and with a wild yell of rage, dashed madly on through the forest after him. The other braves were stupefied with amazement. 
               The object of Wild Medicine was gained. Grandison would be preserved for his vengeance, when the day should come. 
               The last that was seen of the prisoner was, while he was just escaping into the outer darkness, and Wissamisset running after him with a yell that made all the forest ring. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE CAPTIVE-THE HUT OF THE RENEGADE. 
               WHEN the ruffian, Ralph Runnion, and his 
                     compannion
                     companion
                  , the negro Cully, had gone a long distance in the woods, they sat down upon a huge rock beneath a wide-spreading tree, to rest their fair captive. 
               Ralph offered her food, taking some crusts from a ragged wallet he carried with him. They had not spoken to the girl before, until reaching this place. 
               "Why do you wrong an innocent person?" asked Jeanette, as she refused the food he proffered. "What wrong have I done you, that I should be treated thus?" 
               "No matter, my beauty," answered he. "No matter. You have got to go along with me now, and I thort ye might as well take somethin' for nourishment. You'll be faint, girl. It's a long way yet." 
               "I do not care for your food," said she, with feeling. "I spurn it. Let me go back. Let me alone here; I will find my way back myself." 
               "No-no; that can't be done. There ain't no sense in that, jest look at my face, Miss. What did that, do you think?" 
               "You deserved to have your wicked eyes torn out!" she replied. 
               "Ha! ha!" laughed he, demoniacally, while his wicked eyes glared more fiercely upon her. "But your black devil warnt smart enough for that! No-no-no! She'll never git another scratch at my eyes!" 
               "I hope that you will be punished," said Jeanette. 
               "And hopin' so," replied the brutish renegade, "don't ye think ye'd better have a bite o' somethin' to eat, now?" 
               "No," was her instant reply. 
               "Jest as you're a mind," said he. "I don't try to force ye! You'll only find it'll he for your own good. It's quite a long walk yit to where we've got to go." 
               "I would be left alone. Let me go bak home alone!" she protested. 
               "I tell ye that can't be!" said Ralph. "And what Ralph Runnion says is gen'rally apt to be the case!" 
               The girl continued silent and thoughtful, her eyes cast down to the ground. 
               "Come!" again rallied he, "wont ye eat?" 
               "No; I will die. Let me die here, if I cannot be allowed to go back home again." 
               "Oh, but that wouldn't do!" 
               "Why am I thus treated? What wrong have I ever done you?" she asked. 
               "With the 'xception of your settin' that black horred devil on to me," he replied, "I don't know as you've ever done me any wrong." 
               "Then why do you treat me in this way?" 
                
               "Oh, but haven't I told ye that?" said he. 
               "Why is it? What have I done?" 
               "I said 'twas because I wanted to make ye the mistress of my house. I want to see you-" 
               "You wrong me! You are cowardly!" she interrupted, with great passionateness. 
               "How d'ye make that out?" he coolly inquired. "Do you think so, Cully?" he added, turning to the negro. 
               "No, Ralph, not I!" returned the negro, readily. "I think I knows sumthin' 'bout Massa Ralph's heart! Precious little coward dar!" 
               "There!" said the renegade. "Do ye hear that?" 
               "I want better evidence of your courage," replied the maiden, "than the testimony of one who is as much, or more, a brute than yourself." 
               "What more, pray?" 
               "You are not a man with a courageous heart!" she said again. "You are a coward!" 
               "Leastwise," he returned, "I don't think I'm much afeerd o' anything about here." 
               "You entered the cabin of a defenceless girl when you knew that her protector was gone," said Jeanette. 
               "Pho! I sh'd ha' been a fool, ef l'd ha' come to seize you when old Hugh was at home!" interrupted he. 
               "You came when you knew you could do wrong unmolested. You are a coward for that. You had no fear of a defenceless girl, because you knew that you was stronger than she. So you are. But it makes no difference. You will get your reward." 
               "So I hope," said he, with imperturbable coolness. 
               "You will not go unpunished. A power shall be on your track, from which you cannot escape." 
               "Pho!" exclaimed he, "I hope ye don't think I'm afeer'd o' even bein' ketched by Hugh Warnock, do ye?" 
               "I make no threats," replied she. 
               "No; better not. 'Twont be o' no sort o' use." 
               "Only know that such acts of cowardice never go unpunished." 
               "I aint afeerd," returned he, affecting great courage. 
               The maiden was left to her sad and harrowing thoughts again. She dropped her eyes to the ground, and refused to look about her at the villains who had plotted her destruction. 
               The renegade drew off a little way into the shadow with the negro, and entered upon a low conversation which was for a long time continued. 
               Jeanette would gladly have planned escape, even at the hazard of being caught again, as she knew she must have been; but her hands were bound, and the thought did not so much as seriously occur to her. 
               The countenances of the two ruffians, while they consulted together, were sinister and inhuman in the extreme. Dark expressions flitted gloomily across their features, through which the fires of their malignant eyes glared with purposes of cruelty. Their foreheads were low and brutish. They had huge coarse mouths, out of which the most brutal thoughts and purposes found their way. 
                
               In their figures they were muscular, bony, and excessively ungainly. They had nothing about them of the erect walk that belongs to men of true pride and manly bearing. They slouched along, rather than walked, through the woods, watching every leaf that rustled, and every bough that bent. Themselves cowards, they were always in fear from others. 
               For some time during which they were thus engaged in conversation, they betrayed great excitement. They might have had different opinions respecting the disposition of their captive. 
               But the discussion was not prolonged. They came to some agreement at last, and the white man leaned over to whisper another word in his black companion's ear. 
               The negro nodded approvingly. 
               Forthwith both of them returned to the spot where Jeanette still sat. Ralph Runnion only said to her- 
               "Come! We are ready." 
               "But I beseech you to let me be where I am!" plead the girl. 
               "No-no; I couldn't do such a thing as that." 
               "If you are a man, with a heart in your bosom-" 
               "Wal," interrupted he, "I reck'n as how I've a heart some'ere in my bosom, though I dono 'xactly where," and he gave a laugh that made the old woods ring. 
               The negro joined in it, too. 
               "Come!" again ordered he, taking hold of the girl's arm. "I want you to come with me." 
               She instantly rose to her feet, knowing that no further protestations would avail. 
               Starting off again at a round pace, they were soon lost in the depth of the dense forest. They journeyed on for some miles. The way was rough, and to Jeanette, who was totally unused to such long journeys, extremely tedious. Her feet were sore and bruised before they had gone so much as a few rods further. 
               She asked to rest again, pleading the state of her feet. Ralph consented to her seating herself upon a tree that had fallen and lay across their path, and despatched the negro off into the woods. What was the nature of his errand, she was unable to imagine. 
               While Ralph sat upon the tree beside her, he attempted no further conversation with her. He left her to her own thoughts, while he likewise indulged uninterruptedly in his own. It was a small interval of thoughtful and sober silence. 
               Presently the negro returned, bearing in his hands a bunch of leaves. 
               Ralph Runnion at once took them, and, after bruising them with stones, applied them to the souls of the girl's feet. Then he assured her that she would find little or no more difficulty in performing the remainder of the journey. 
               "If you would but suffer me to remain where I am!" she implored again, casting up her eyes prayerfully at him. 
               "No-no-no!" 
               "Or would go on without me?" she persisted. 
               "Can't think on't," he replied. 
                
               "Or would but let me find my own way back to Hugh's?" she still persisted. 
               "Come along!" said he, determined to cut short her newly begun petitions. 
               "May Heaven protect me!" prayed the girl. 
               "If Heaven don't, I will," he replied. 
               "I need a different protector from you." 
               "Come! Come! Come!" he again ordered. 
               The negro now led the way. She rose from the tree on which she had been sitting, and began her sorrowful journey again. 
               Her eyes were red and swollen. Crystal tears had begun to gather there, and then fell patteringly to the ground. Her feet soon felt the sanative properties of the herbs that had been bound upon them, and she felt able to traverse the entire forest now, without a thought of pain. 
               If she had but had her face turned back in the direction of Hugh Warnock's hut, she would have travelled on without trouble. The thought of returning home would even have added wings to her feet. The rocks and stones would have been walked over, as if they were but soft sward, or smooth sand. 
               It was just at nightfall when they came to a little dell, or glen, into which the shadows had already thickly crept. It seemed a gloomy place indeed. 
               At first, nothing but a thick growth of bushes and stunted trees showed themselves, heavily curtained about and beleaguered with the shadows. Jeanette tried to pierce the place with her eyes, to see whither she might he about to be taken by her captors; but it was next to impossible for her to obtain a clear view of the premises. 
               They conducted her by a narrow and declivitous path down the valley into the heart of the glen. Then they led her along, the interlacing boughs flapping cruelly against her person, until they reached a small and rudely constructed log hut. Pausing before the door, while the negro proceeded to loosen the fastenings, they finally went in. 
               The hut was almost completely shut in from sight by the bushes. The valley side had grown precipitous at its back, so that a rocky ledge formed the limits against which it stood. Clumps of cedar and ash grew plentifully around it, walling it in altogether from the eye of the observer. 
               The room into which they were ushered, was of but small dimensions, and had not so much as a window. A rude chimney had been constructed in one corner, of stones, and stood firmly against the shoulder of the ledge behind the hut. The floor was of rough and unhewn boards, or planks, gathered no one knew where, and laid down no one knew how. There was no one there very often to wonder. 
               The walls of the hut were built of heavy logs, firmly fitted to each other by a sort of dove-tail process at the corners, and mud was plentifully plastered in at the 
                     insterstices
                     interstices
                  . In places it was wanting altogether; and the wind drew through in cool and damp gusts. Jeanette shuddered as she felt them on her frame. 
               As soon as they were fairly within this strange enclosure-for it could scarcely be called a house, with propriety-Ralph Runnion seated his captive on a rude bench near at hand, and soon after set before her something thing to eat. The food consisted of a strip of bear's meat, scarcely cooked at all, a piece of pounded corn, made into a coarse cake and baked, and a gourd of freshly brought water. 
               "Eat!" said he, as he unbound her arms from their long confinement. 
               She turned her head faintingly away from this repast, and exclaimed in a pathetic tone- 
               "I can't eat." 
               "But you must!" urged the renegade, standing up before her. 
               "No-no; let me die. I must die. I cannot eat anything more.-What would you do with me? Why am I brought here?" 
               "Oh, no matter about that now," interrupted Ralph, seeing the dangerous condition which his inhuman violence had brought upon her, and fearing mostly that he might yet be deprived of his prize by death-"no matter about that now. You must eat! Here, drink some of this water. It'll do you good. You can't live so." 
               "I would not wish to," she at once replied. 
               "Wal," said he, "but I've an interest in keepin' you alive. 'Twont do for you to give up in this baby style. I tell ye, 'twont do." 
               "No-no-no!" she added, in the agony of her spirit; "let me alone! Let me die! I would die!" 
               He held the gourd of water to her parched and livid lips. 
               "Drink!" said he. 
               She tried to push it away with her half-raised hands, but Ralph Runnion held them both with one of his, and thrust the gourd to her mouth with the other. 
               Still she averted her head. She seemed set in her purpose. 
               The renegade made a silent motion to the negro to assist him. Advancing to the girl, he placed his yellow palms, one on either side of her head, and tipping it back to receive the draught more easily, Ralph successfully applied the vessel to her lips. 
               He fairly poured the water down her throat, so that there was no alternative left her, if she would not swallow, but to strangle. Nature, however, came forward just then to assert her claims, and the girl swallowed what was forced into her throat with readiness and regularity. 
               After this operation was through, the renegade led her to a little apartment that was enclosed from the main room, between the stone chimney and the wall, and showed her the couch that had been prepared for her. 
               "You won't be troubled by anybody here," said he. "And I'll put some o' yer vittles down by yer bed, in case ye sh'd take it into yer head to git over this fit, and want to eat sumthin' in the night." 
               Entering the other apartment, he sat down with the negro, and commenced his own evening meal with him. 
               They sat talking together in low tones for a long time, until they thought Jeanette must be asleep. The brain of the renegade was full of plans respecting the best disposition possible for him to make of his captive: for he well enough knew that it would be unsafe for him to think of keeping her imprisoned there. Hugh Warnock knew well of such an individual as Ralph Runnion; and the latter naturally dreaded the thought of his daughter being found by any accident upon his premises. 
                
               They had not entirely disposed of the embarrassing question, when they were admonished by the tired condition of their bodies, that sleep was absolutely necessary for their immediate refreshment. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               LAMENTATIONS-NEW ARRIVALS-SCHEMING. 
               WHEN Hugh Warnock returned to his hut in the wilderness, the evening after the violent abduction of his daughter, he was astonished beyond expression to find that it was vacant. 
               He went back to the door, after searching through the house, and looked off anxiously into the forest. 
               "If Jeanette is round home," said he to himself, aloud, "it's high time she was at the cabin again. I hope she don't stay out till this time o'night, when I'm gone away!" 
               He looked off through the thick-standing trees, till his eyes ached with looking. But he saw nothing save the dancing shadows. 
               He hurried to points a little distant from the house, and where he knew she was in the habit of going, and then began to call in a loud and clear voice- 
               "Jeanette! Jeanette!" 
               The still forest only answered his call with a hundred echoes. The soft night winds caught up the sounds, and wafted them away to caverns, and nooks, and recesses, where even the voice of such a woodsman as Hugh Warnock might never have penetrated before. 
               Seeing that the girl gave no signs of her proximity, or so much as of her existence, the heart of the forester suddenly sank with an overwhelming sense of fear. He had hardly the courage to prosecute his investigation farther, and for a time sank down upon a stone, exhausted. In this situation, he gave himself up temporarily to his fears and dark reflections. 
               While he sat here, too, the old black cat came hurrying up to him, and, rubbing her coat of fur frequently against his legs, commenced purring most affectionately. She had evidently been exceeding lonely since the absence of both master and mistress, and took this way of showing her joy at the arrival of the former home again. 
               The troubled man stooped to sleek down her back, and then sprang suddenly to his feet. 
               "I will go to the cliff!" said he, aloud. "She was in the habit of going there. She may be there now, and something may have happened." 
               He started off in the greatest haste imaginable. The trees flew by him, as if they were winged. Neither bush, brake or briar heeded he; and the rocks, and gnarled tree-roots were as if they did not exist, to offer him obstacles to his progress. 
               At length much out of breath, and a thick perspiration standing in beaded drops on his forehead, he reached the spot. He went straight to the huge beech tree, where Jeanette loved to sit so much, and where she plighted her vows to the heart of her passionate lover. 
               The old forester called aloud, his voice trembling with agitation:- 
               "Jeanette! My child! Jeanette!" 
               He kept repeating his calls. They grew soon to be merely cries of distress. 
               But to all of them no answer came from out the dense darkness. Nothing but the dismal echoes. 
               He went to the edge of the cliff, and looked off upon the lake. 
               Could she have fallen in there? Was her body even then beneath its dark bosom? 
               He started back, and shuddered involuntarily, as the fearful thought darted through his brain. 
               "No-no-no!" said he, in his agony. "Jeanette is not sleeping in the lake. She has lived here with me these many years, but never has she met with any such disaster yet. And I'm not going to lament for such an improbability now. Jeanette isn't in the lake. She's either got lost in these woods, or something evil has happened to her. Oh, Jenny! Jenny! God grant that wherever you are, you're safe from all harm!" 
               With these words of melancholy, he wended his way slowly back in the direction of his hut. All sorts of surmises, and fears, and impossibilities drifted through his brain as he went on, from which he ever and anon broke away, to call yet more loudly on his missing girl. 
               Now the rocks, and the stones, and the dense bushes were each and all great obstacles in his way. He would have thrust everything aside that was in his path. His agitated spirit could scarce brook the trifling opposition of the lightest leaves, that brushed against his face. 
               The walk to the hut was somewhat long, and when he had reached it, he sat down in the door, fatigued and dispirited in the extreme. He had just come home again, too, from a long tramp, and was well worn with the trials incident to that. And when to these were added the sad and mournful thoughts that entered his brain respecting his child, he was most fearfully smitten. 
               He watched and wept, therefore, until late into the night. His mournful ejaculations could all the time have been heard a long way from the cabin. He paced the floor of the hut continually, still weeping, and waiting, and wringing his hands. 
               The interior of the hut never seemed so gloomy to him. He could hardly endure the sight of the walls. His eyes roved from beam to beam, and from angle to angle, and his heart refused to be pacified. Never had such tumultuous thoughts poured across his brain. 
               The gray and gloomy daylight dawned over the forest, and cast its shadows in at the cabin door of Hugh Warnock. Still he sat there despondingly, his elbow resting on his knees, and his head on his hands. His hair was matted and grizzly. He had not eaten since his return, and his countenance betrayed the emaciated condition of his body. He had a look of dull, sleepy, and painful languor. 
               Until the middle of the forenoon did he continue sitting in this posture. There seemed no prospect however remote, of his recovering from the fearful stupor that had come over him. 
               By the quick process of reasoning with which his own sagacity had furnished him, he concluded that Jeanette had met with some unforeseen calamity, and he felt equally sure that it was irremediable just then. 
               If he had still hoped for her return, he felt that it must be even against hope. She had remained away from the cabin over night, and that sufficiently proved to him that she was gone. 
               Never would she have consented to make his kind heart so desolate. Never would she have thought to act so ungrateful a part, while she continued so very dear to him as a daughter. Never would she have deliberately planned a flight from her own home, when she must know so well what a desolation would be sure to follow in the path of such conduct. 
               No-the poor, afflicted father at length began to direct his mind to the only inference that was left him. A conclusion had really forced itself upon him, that some great wrong had been done. The thought grew great and terrible as he revolved it. 
               Could a wild beast have torn her, limb from limb? Was her fair skin even then mangled and bleeding? Was her long, luxuriant hair plucked from her beautiful head? Had the heavenly light gone out of her large blue eyes? Were the smiles on her face changed for the distorted expressions of terror and dismay? 
               He had looked about the cabin. He had looked far and near in the woods. But there was no traces of any combat with the wild beast. 
               He went off on another train of thought; as if his very fears were essential to his existence. 
               Alas! the reason was too apparent. He loved his child. Her life was as dear to him as the apple of his eye. He lived, and labored, and seemed happy, only with and for her. His soul and her's seemed indivisible. 
               Meanwhile the garish sun was lighting up the forest. Its bright rays penetrated every nook and secret spot. The masses of the leaves glistened as with yellow gold. The insects were cleaving the air with their silver wings, and humming the glad songs they alone can sing. 
               The distant tree-tops were full of melody, as they were likewise full of sunshine. Birds flitted from bough to bough, warbling their matin thanksgivings, fluttering in their exuberance of spirits, and spreading their wings as if their very existence was a pleasure. It seemed truly a glorious thing to live, on such a morning as that. Life was a blessing. It was worth living for the mere sake of life. 
               But what a contrast between outer nature and the interior of the hut! What gloom had not settled down there! What dark woes were not clustering thickly about the desolate hearthstone! What agony was not causing the poor stricken forester's soul to writhe, as if he could never see peace again! 
               The glory of the outer world was as nothing to him. He was banked in with desolation. Nothing cared he for the yellow sun that shone in the lofty tree-tops, and fell like a pathway of glory through the opened boughs to the ground. 
               Suddenly his attention was aroused by the sound of feet at a distance, as of some one slowly tramping. 
               He started slightly in his seat, and listened. 
               Yes-he could not be mistaken. It was the sound of some one approaching. 
               Just at that moment, while his mind was wrought to the highest pitch of suspense, he caught the sound of voices, as of persons talking. 
               "It is my child!" exclaimed he, springing with amazing suddenness from his chair, "and she has brought some one back with her!" 
               A flush of triumphant joy flew to his face, and he felt his own nature return. The blood rushed swiftly from his heart, and heated his face, his neck, and his temples, as with fire. 
               It was but a step from him to the door, and it took but a moment to make it. 
               He rushed hastily across the threshold and stood just in the edge of the wood. Shading his eyes with his hand, he peered off in the direction of the sounds. 
               He was able to detect the cause of his sudden alarm. Two men were approaching, each on horseback. He looked closely, but saw no female with them. They appeared to be making directly for his hut. 
               He waited till they drew near enough, determined to accost them and make inquiries respecting' Jeanette. At almost any other time he would have retreated hastily to his hut again, and prepared himself to act instantly on the defensive, if such a course should happen to prove necessary. But now his heart was too much beset with grief to allow him to think of fear. 
               As the two men drew near, one of them made signs as if to salute him. He looked more closely at him, at a great loss to know what was about to happen, or what it could all mean. 
               One of them was Lieutenant Hooper, his former guest. 
               The lover of Jeanette had come back again to her. 
               As they rode slowly up to the cabin, the young man lifted his hat from his head, and exclaimed in a cheerful voice: 
               "Good morning to you, Hugh Warnock. Right glad am I that I have found my old friend again. I have had my furlough unexpectedly extended, and thought I could spend it no better than by coming this long distance to camp with so honest a friend as yourself." 
               Hugh looked sharply at him while he was speaking, but offered no reply. He appeared sullen. A thought flashed over him. 
               "It's really a glorious morning in the forest," continued the young man. "I declare I have never enjoyed a ride so much. The air is as balmy and invigorating as one could well wish. It stirs my blood like good old wine. Hugh Warnock, my friend, the top of the morning to you! Are you so overjoyed with the charming sunshine that you can't speak? I shouldn't be surprised! I really feel that way myself at times. But just now, it happens to be quite the reverse, though." 
               The two horsemen drew up before Hugh Warnock, who had advanced some steps from the hut to meet them, and immediately dismounted. 
                
               Lieutenant Hooper stood in front of him, and extended his hand very cordially for a greeting. 
               The honest woodsman drew back. 
               "Why! What now?" instantly asked the young man, very greatly surprised at what he saw. 
               Hugh Warnock made him no answer. He only looked him fixedly in the eye, as if he would read the very thoughts of his soul. 
               "What is wrong?" persisted the young man. "If I have given any cause of offence, I would be glad to know what! Nay, I demand to know, as a mere right!" 
               "You perhaps can imagine, sir," answered the sturdy forester, "what is the matter!" 
               "Indeed I cannot," said Lieutenant Hooper. "I do not have the least idea of what you mean! I will thank you very much to inform me!" 
               "When a man comes to a stranger's house in trouble," answered Hugh, "and is even dependent for his life, to say nothing of food and shelter, to him, it is no more than just to expect that he will not betray the kindness offered him." 
               "Most assuredly," promptly answered the young man. 
               "If I go to another man's house and beg for shelter, because I am unfortunate, I shall think myself a vile traitor, and well worthy to be hung up from the tallest tree of the forest, if I take advantage of the generous confidence he has placed in me!" continued the woodsman. 
               "Certainly," answered the Lieutenant again. 
               "Now can you understand what I mean?" asked the woodsman. 
               "I am sure I cannot." 
               "Do you not know to what I speak?" 
               "I am entirely ignorant of what you can mean," replied the young man. 
               "It is impossible!" said Hugh Warnock, vehemently. 
               "It is only as I say," answered the young man. "I wish you would do me the favor to explain yourself." 
               "Young man!" spake the forester, in a bold tone: 
               Lieutenant Hooper's eyes flashed fire with this strange address from the lips of the woodsman. All his old heat poured through his veins. 
               "Young man!-you are but trifling with me! You think I am much older than yourself, and much more ignorant! I am the one, and I may very possibly be the other! But for all that, do not think I can be imposed upon in this way with impunity! Do not imagine that I have a heart that lives only to be outraged by such as you! You will at once find out what a great mistake is yours!" 
               "Hugh Warnock!" quickly replied Lieutenant Hooper, his heart divided strangely between wildly conflicting emotions, "will you hear me?" 
               "If you can find it in you to defend such villainy as this, I should like to hear how it is done!" said the woodman. 
               "You wrong me!" said the young man. "You do me a very great wrong! I do not yet know what all this is about! I am charged indirectly with being the basest of villains, and yet it is impossible for me to conceive upon what such an accusation is based! I protest that I know nothing of what all this means." 
               "Then you shall know!" returned the forester. 
               "Tell me at once!" said the young man. 
               "You came to my cabin, wounded." 
               "Yes-yes!" 
               "I took you in, and willingly furnished you with such nourishment and care as I was able. Beneath my roof you got well again. I saw your recovery to health and strength with a truly glad and sympathising heart!" 
               "And for all this I am now come to return you my most devout thanks," interrupted the young man. 
               "But in return for this kindness at my hands and beneath my roof, you left my hearth desolate!" continued the forester. "I had a daughter-a dear child. I have her no longer! She is not with me! My heart is bereaved! And it is you who have done it." 
               "My God! My God!" exclaimed the young officer, raising both hands as he spake, "is Jeanette gone? Has she gone? What has become of her? Where has she gone?" 
               "You should know all about it," answered Hugh, with overwhelming calmness. 
               "Indeed, Hugh Warnock, I do not! Indeed, I do not! Upon the word of a soldier, I do not know where she has gone. I know nothing of all this. I came here, expecting to find her here, as she promised to be when I came again! Oh God! if I am bereft too!" 
               "You bereft!' questioned the forester, with much surprise. 
               "Nay, I loved her!" said he, leaning his head far downward, and seeming to bend beneath the suddenness and violence of the blow. "I loved her, Hugh Warnock, as I never loved another!" 
               "But that cannot be! She cannot be loved by any one!" 
               "She loved me!" said the young man. "She assured me of it!" 
               At this point the eyes of the speaker filled with tears. His heart was overburdened. He knew not but some great calamity had befallen her. 
               The forester saw his deep emotion, and it had the effect to instantly change the current of his feelings towards him. He knew in a moment that there could be no deceit where there was so much truth. 
               "Give me your hand!" exclaimed he at last. "You are well worthy to be the lover of such a girl!" 
               The young man extended his hand, and they both greeted each other cordially. But the sympathy was not of joy; it was the silent and deep sympathy of grief. 
               "Come into my cabin!" said Hugh. "Secure your horses here at the door. We will talk this matter all over together. You are welcome to my humble roof!' 
               The stranger whom the young officer this time brought with him was a faithful and trusty follower in the camp service. He had taken him as a safe companion on so long and hazardous a journey. 
               All three went forthwith into the hut of the forester, where they sat down and at once began a thorough examination of the matter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               ESCAPE OF JEANETTE-RECAPTURE. 
               THE two men, Ralph and the negro, were at length fallen into a deep sleep. Their snoring could be heard all over the hut. 
               Jeanette lay awake on her couch, reflecting bitterly upon her cruel wrongs, and trying to reach the secret cause of this strange treatment. She wondered what these ruffians could know of her. She had never seen them before, nor even heard her father speak of such characters. Yet they lived so near him, and he was ignorant of their propinquity. 
               It could not be so, she thought. 
               She was excessively fatigued with her long tramp, and her feet continued to give her much trouble, although the timely application of the bruised herbs prevented them from having swollen as much as they otherwise would. Her limbs were much strained, and her wrists very sore with confinement. 
               But still there was a tide of strong excitement, that set above all these thoughts of fatigue and pain. She could keep her thoughts from bodily troubles, much more readily than from the wretched condition of her heart. 
               These deep feelings, all the time in such a state of tumultuous activity, prevented her from getting that sleep which would have refreshed her so much. And the very sound of the snoring in the other apartment, started a train of thought in her mind which was destined to be put into active operation at once. 
               She began to plan her escape! 
               There she was, she knew, in the custody of two cowardly ruffians. There was no help at hand. Their plan might be to murder her, or to carry her away into a still more barbarous captivity. She could call on no arm for assistance. There was but one mode of final safety for her, attended with howsoever great risks it might be, and that was-escape. 
               If she failed in the attempt, it could certainly be no worse for her. And if she succeeded, she felt perfectly willing to encounter all the hazards and perils of a night in the wilderness, rather than endure what must be in store for her there. 
               The deep and continued snoring of the men again re-assured her. She knew that they had indulged, too, somewhat freely in their libations to the "rosy god" the evening before, and their sleep must be deep and unbroken. 
               Rising slowly and cautiously from her couch, she stepped measuredly to the entrance of their apartment, and listened. 
               She was right. They both slept soundly. 
               Their breathing sounded as the wheezing of two engines sounds at this day! 
                
               She laid her hand gently, but firmly, upon the apartment to steady her steps. Slowly, and almost breathlessly, she moved one foot before the other, fearing the least noise. 
               A board slightly creaked beneath her tread. 
               She sent up a swift prayer to Heaven, and kept the silence of death. 
               It did not awaken them. She thanked God in her heart, and essayed to push on. 
               She reached nearly the middle of the apartment where they lay. 
               "One of them rolled partly over-breathed deeper-yawned-and spoke! 
               "Great God!" she ejaculated, in a whisper, "I am lost!" 
               "Cully! It's 'bout time to go!" said the half awake renegade. 
               "What am I to do? Where shall I go? Oh, that I could sink down into the earth! Oh, that I could vanish up into the sky!" were exclamations of her heart at the moment, to which her livid lips could not give utterance. 
               "It's a great prize, Cully!" continued the restless sleeper; "it's a great prize! But then, he'll never find her! He'll never think o' comin' here, Cully!" 
               The affrighted girl shuddered from head to foot. She feared lest even her breathing might disturb him, and attract his attention to her. 
               The negro continued however as sound as a log. 
               Again she listened. There was no sign of farther restlessness. The renegade appeared to have relapsed into his deep slumbers again, and his loud snoring was soon heard by the side of his companions. 
               The maiden lifted her heart in thanksgiving to Heaven. 
               After satisfying herself that it would be safe, she made another cautious attempt to move forward. She reached the very spot where the sleeping men lay. In the darkness she had not been able before to discover them. 
               She took another step forward, and touched one of their bodies with her foot. 
               Heavens! how she started and staggered back! The touch of a poisonous monster, with shiny scales and a hundred heads, could not have sent through her frame a chill of deeper horror! 
               At length, gathering courage and coolness with her desperation, she deliberately stooped down to the floor, to see how matters were. In the thick wall of darkness she could just make it out. 
               She would be compelled to step over the bodies of the ruffians, in order to effect her escape. 
               The appearance of such a necessity to her mind only served to give it additional strength and courage. Making, therefore, a bold step, she passed the bounds of seeming danger, and reached the door. 
               It was but a trifle ajar. But she would be compelled to open it still wider, if she would finally go clear of the den. It was a fearful fact to contemplate, for it might be the means of dashing all her newly-born hopes to the ground. 
               She seized hold of the door in a sort of frenzy. She could hardly dare to think of the fearful hazard she ran. It was the work of an impulse. She could not stop for even a moment's contemplation. 
                
               The heavy door yielded to her weight. She momentarily had the strength of a man. 
               But she had pushed it back only wide enough to admit of her safe egress, and still stood in the cabin, when she heard the voice of one of her captors again. 
               "No, you can't!" said Ralph Runnion. "You can't escape me that way! You must be more spry than that." 
               The girl's heart sunk within her. 
               She instantly placed her hands across her chest, to prevent her falling in a swoon to the floor. Her breathing was difficult and very short. 
               "Come, come, my beauty!" said the renegade, "lay down again. Go back to bed. It's no time for you to be up. It's late, and it's dark too. Come, to bed with ye! to bed with ye!" 
               She was about at this point to utter a groan and sink down. But the memory of her lover just then flitted across her, and a new strength took possession of her. 
               She made a hasty motion, and glided swiftly through the door. 
               "Here! here!" shouted the renegade at the top of his husky voice. 
               The syllables gave her a new start. See instantly set out upon a run, and dashed madly into the heart of the forest. 
               She heard no more of her captor, however. 
               It was evident to her, on after consideration, as it must likewise be to the reader, that the ruffian was only in a disturbed dream. His thoughts were plainly directed to the girl, who, he must have dreamed, was on the point of escaping him. And his sudden exclamations in his sleep so well answered to what they would have been if he had just then been awake, and was overwhelmed by the same terrors. 
               She ran at a fearful speed far into the gloom of the forest. The stars twinkled overhead, and beamed on her in her sufferings, with a calm and serene lustre. There was no moon. The old moon was ragged, and had long ago sunk behind the forest. 
               She stopped not to take breath. She did not even stop to determine which way she was running. She thought not of that. All her thoughts were of immediate escape from her captors, no matter whither. All her fears were aroused, lest she might be overtaken and recaptured. 
               She should have gone in just the opposite direction, if she would have reached the hut of Hugh Warnock. But she took no time to think of probabilities; whether she might be going towards him or from him. 
               The trees sped by her, as if they ran instead of her. The leaves clattered in her ears, and the boughs brushed in her face. They whipped her person, as they sprang back so quickly upon her. 
               The rocks seemed huge objects of darkness, looming gloomily up out of the earth at her feet. She plunged into little dells, not knowing whither she went. She ran along the edges of precipitous cliffs, and never dreamed of danger. On-on-on, was her only thought. She knew not whither-she even cared not. She thought only of the horrors she had left behind. 
               The cool night-breeze drew through the trees, just stirring the dark masses of leaves, and laving her temples. They refreshed her. She was able to continue her race much longer. She drew far more regular breaths, even while she was running at such a frightful speed. 
               At length she stopped for rest. Seating herself upon a huge rock, covered and cushioned deeply with mosses, she drew calmer breaths. 
               The mild stars gleamed in the deep of the firmament, and looked like far-off jewels, glittering through the scarcely-parted leaves. They seemed to beam expressly for her, and for no other. They were a million eyes, all looking down in tender pity for her wrongs. They were the smiles of many angels, encouraging her onward in the path she had begun. 
               The night-winds were soft, and deliciously refreshing. They did not now whistle in her ears, like avenging spirits, shrieking for their prey, as when she was at the height of her mad career. They fanned her brow with their softer than downy wings. They blew fresh and reviving aromas into her nostrils. They just lifted the tangled luxuriance of her hair, and searched her heart with their soothing and subduing influences. 
               There was new life in their breath. There was sweet and secret consolation in their soft whisperings. There was a close sympathy in their sighs. She felt them to be endeared companions; and suffered them to fan her temples, lift her hair, breathe in her nostrils, and search soothingly her heart. 
               Alone in the deep and silent forest. In the dead of the night! A girl!-unprotected, out of the path, and full of fear! What a scene for sober contemplation! 
               How thickly seemed the darkness banked up around her, as if it were Cimmerian. What a variety of strange figures and shapes-witches, spirits, hobgoblins, fiends, and all-came trooping forth from the sea of gloom, obedient to the call of her disordered, but active imagination. 
               What grotesque shapes she made from the leaves!-from the stirring boughs-from the ragged rocks-from the fallen tree-trunks around her! How fearfully gazed she backward in the direction she had come, as if she could see a pair of bony hands thrust out at her through the darkness. As if she heard the echoes of distant voices, calling on each other to intercept her flight-as if she felt the hot breaths of her pursuers already on her cheeks, and burning their way into her heart! She saw glaring eyes straining for a sight of her from out the wall of darkness. They looked red and fiery. They were not dull. They burned rather than gleamed. They burned with a terribly fierce light. 
               Her own eyes partially closed at the sight of them. They sprang out of the dense darkness-here-there-here again-everywhere. There were a million of them. They were as thick as the myriad stars. They burned their way to her eye-balls-to her very brain. 
               She tried to be calm, but she could not. She labored to stop the violent beating of her heart, but it was impossible. She made an effort to rise, but it was unsuccessful. Now it seemed darker than ever before. The gloom thickened about her on every side. The spectral figures came thicker and faster, and then vanished as suddenly as they had come. 
               She was doubly alone. She was as if shut up in a dark dungeon, a thousand feet below ground. No such darkness as that ever crowded upon her before. 
               Yet for all this, she finally made another effort to move. Rising to her feet, her heart went up in a sincere prayer, as swift as thought itself, to Heaven. She prayed for safety in the wilderness. 
               Again she pushed forward; this time more slowly, and with increased care. She felt her way as she went along. A few incoherent murmurs escaped her lips. They were heard only by the dark leaves. The cool winds caught up their faint syllables. 
               She continued to travel onward thus till the night was far spent. Only the leaves, the trees, the rocks, and the winds, for her company. 
               At length the first fiery streaks began to stream up over the eastern horizon. She had reached the summit of an acclivity, and could command a wide view of the vast, but gloomy tract all around her. 
               The faint streaks flashed and glimmered up; at first slowly climbing and creeping over the horizon; and then reaching up still higher and higher, until with their long, trembling fingers they tried to clutch hold of the zenith itself. They were the heralds of dawn. 
               Then slowly the east began to purple, and tinge with brighter hues. Then it grew scarlet, and ruddy crimson, and a deeper purple, and a bright and beautiful orange; and a clear, full, burnished gold. The sun was at length fairly up. 
               The spot upon which she was then travelling, was effulgent with the golden and glorious light. A million dews lay sparkling and uncrushed upon the long grass blades, and hung in crystal drops, glittering with a dazzling beauty, from leaf, bough, and spray. The short bushes were hung with rows of pearls. The huge cobwebs that had been woven and spread only the night before, now lay stretched across from grass-spire to grass-spire, thickly studded with the silvery drops. 
               Freshness and fragrance were upon and about every thing, save only poor Jeanette. She was jaded and worn, dispirited, downcast; almost hopeless. Yet she was free! That was far better than the unwelcome servitude from which she had just escaped. 
               She kept still going onward. She wondered how she should know when she reached the hut of her father. There was no forest-mark, by which to guide herself back to the hut again. 
               As she walked, she came to another ravine; a spot, which for beauty she thought she had nowhere seen equalled. The morning air was cool and refreshing in its depths. She drank in an atmosphere that revived her, even more than that she had already so much enjoyed. 
               Suddenly a human form sprang out from a clump of bushes near her. 
               She started with affright. She tried to flee, but her feet stuck fast to the ground. 
               "Who goes here?" exclaimed a voice. 
               A rough-looking man seized her by the arm and held her fast. 
               "Who is this?" cried he again. 
               She breathed faster, and with more difficulty. Could it be that she had escaped the horrors of one captivity, only to fall into the open jaws of another? 
               She was paler than a ghost. She tried to speak, but could not. Her strength failed her utterly. Her very breath seemed utterly gone. 
               Just at that moment another individual came up. He was an Indian. 
                
               Jeanette glanced at them but once, and swooned away. She fell at once to the ground. 
               The persons who had thus surprised her, and in whose hands she was a prisoner, were none other than John Topliff, the agent of the trader, James Grandison-and his companion, Oneko, the Indian! 
               Topliff had before betrayed his master into the hands of the Indians, apprising Oneko of his approach with the emigrant party. Jeanette, therefore, if she had been still sensible of her situation, could have cherished but little hope of much tenderness at his hands. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               A PRISONER-FRUITLESS SEARCH-ESCAPE. 
               THE three men-Hugh Warnock, Lieutenant Hooper and his companion, seated themselves, as we have already narrated, in the cabin of the former, and commenced discussing the disappearance of Jeanette from the place. 
               "It can't be a wild beast," said Hugh Warnock; "for I've scoured all the woods round here. If she had been carried off in that way, there would certainly be left marks of a struggle: a part of her dress, hair, blood and such like." 
               The young man who listened, shuddered at thinking such might be the fate of his mistress. The words of her father sent a thrill of horror to his heart. 
               "Can she have fallen into the lake?" asked he, hoping to give the matter a different, though none the less painful direction. 
               "It's impossible," returned Hugh. 
               "Have you looked?" 
               "I examined about the place where I've known her to be in the habit of going. She never goes near the lake." 
               "Under the big beech-tree?" 
               "Ah, sir!" he replied; "that was almost the first place I went to!" 
               There was a long and thoughtful pause. Both the bereaved ones appeared lost in the mazes of their own reflections. 
               At length Hugh Warnock started suddenly up from his chair. 
               "There's just one chance!" exclaimed he, raising his right arm for a gesture. 
               "What's that?" quickly asked Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "She may have been smuggled away-" 
               "By whom? by whom?" hastily interrupted her excited lover. 
               "You have never heard o' Ralph Runnion?" 
               "No." 
               "I have though," said he. 
               "Who is he?" 
               "I know him well! He would be doing me just such a thing as that! I didn't think o' him before!" 
                
               "Why should he do this?" inquired the young man. "Why? Your plunge me into deeper mystery." 
               "Oh, but you can't see things as I do!" replied Hugh Warnock. "I wonder I didn't think o' him before! You don't know him as I do!" 
               "But what would lead you to think he could be guilty of such a crime as the abduction of your daughter-your only child? What could be his motive?" 
               "He owes me a grudge!" 
               "Ah!" 
               "An old matter," said Hugh. 
               "You think it's that?" asked the young man. 
               "He has sworn he would have his revenge," said the forester. 
               "In this way?" 
               "In a way I little expected," answered Hugh. "He has told me that he would come as a thief in the night." 
               "And he has!" said the excited young man, rising quickly from his seat. 
               "Yes!" replied Hugh Warnock. "So he has. But he is not yet beyond my power! He shall answer for this with his life!" 
               "He deserves it, certainly." 
               "Will you go with me?" inquired the forester, his eyes flaming with deep rage. 
               "After this outlaw?" 
               "Yes." 
               "To the ends of the earth!" returned the young man, in a frenzied manner. 
               "Come on, then." 
               Immediately the three men left the hut. 
               The words they spoke, as they passed on in their sullen determination, were but few. Their march through the woods was in silence. 
               The horses of the two strangers had been properly secured, before they left the premises, as they felt they could do much more active and efficient service on foot than on horseback. 
               For perhaps three or four miles, due west, they travelled, Hugh Warnock leading the way. All this distance, they had said little or nothing. Hugh, however, now stopped short. He turned to his companions and said- 
               "There is a lodge just beyond here." 
               "Will you find him there?" asked the young man. 
               "He does not live there," answered Hugh. 
               "Then what?" 
               "I have often seen him there with a negro," said the former. "I have watched them both, when they little thought such a bein' as Hugh Warnock was near." 
               "Do you expect to find either of them there!" persisted Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "It may be. Stranger things have happened, you know," answered he. 
               "I hope you may!" fervently returned the young officer. 
               "Will you go round with me!" asked the forester, "while your friend stays here in the rear?" 
                
               "Most certainly. Lead on." 
               The two excited adventurers forthwith started off from the third party, and made a diligent reconnoisance of the ledge in question. There were clumps of bushes, growing thickly together all around it. And saplings served to form a screen for the spaces not occupied by the bushes. And wild vines, luxuriant beyond belief, were tangled, and matted, and strown thickly over the bushes, and among the smaller trees and saplings, till secrecy herself seemed to have chosen the spot as rightfully her own. 
               At the back of all was a high and bold rock. It formed a wall, over and through which there was no such thing as escape. 
               They approached this place of secrecy with great caution. Parting the tangled foliage carefully and noiselessly with one hand each, they held their trusty rifles ready for service with the other. If the renegade or his black compeer should suddenly spring a trigger on them, they at least meant to be beforehand with them at their own game. 
               Hugh Warnock was in advance. The young man now raised his rifle, so that he could cover his friend's movements with a ball. 
               Suddenly the sturdy forester raised his outspread hand, holding it behind him. 
               Turning round at the same moment to his young companion, he beckoned him silently to advance. 
               Lieutenant Hooper forthwith made a step forward, and looked carefully over his shoulder. 
               The negro lay asleep in the shade. 
               "It's Cully!" whispered Hugh. "It's Cully. He's asleep!" 
               "Who is he?" asked the young man. 
               "He's the nigger that keeps this blasted tory company," was his reply. 
               "Shoot him!" exclaimed Lieutenant Hooper, in a loud whisper, "Shall I shoot him for you? Say the word, and he'll never know what took his breath away!" and the young officer had already taken a good sight with his rifle, before the other could interfere with a reply. 
               "No! no! no!" exclaimed Hugh Warnock. "Don't fire!" 
               "What will you do? Are you going to let him go, so that he can have a chance to kill us?" 
               "No, no; don't be in too much of a hurry, or all our matter may be worse off than nothin'! I've got a rope in my pocket, and I'll tie him. He can tell us more than we can find out otherwise, about his friend." 
               "True!" said the young man. "Let's at him, then, at once." 
               "Run back, and call your friend," said the woodsman. 
               The young man obeyed the injunction, and in less than a minute, both were at the side of Hugh Warnock. 
               Hugh and the companion of the lieutenant then stepped cautiously but quickly up to the sleeper, and pounced upon him. Each held a hand, and Hugh clapped his sturdy knee to his breast. 
               "Wake up," shouted the forester in a voice of thunder. 
               Lieutenant Hooper stood back a couple of paces, pointing his rifle directly at the negro's head. 
               The prisoner thus unexpectedly appealed to, opened his eyes much more suddenly than he otherwise would, and stared vacantly about him. 
                
               The novel sight certainly did not have the effect to assure him of his safety. 
               "Lem me go!" he shouted at the top of his voice. 
               "When I get ready, you blasted nigger!" said Hugh Warnock. 
               "Oh, murder! Ralph! Ralph!" shouted the captive, displaying a huge and apparently unexplored cavity for a mouth, besides a double row of polished teeth. "Ralph! Ralph!" 
               "Shut up that hollerin' hole, now!" ordered the brave forester, clapping his abundant palm over his mouth. 
               The negro, driven to extreme measures for defence, instantly commenced making incisions into the forester's honest palm, with his teeth. 
               "Bite, do ye?" exclaimed Hugh Warnock, quickly drawing back his hand, and dealing him out a couple of ringing blows on either side of his face. 
               The negro fairly yelled with the smarting pain, for Hugh Warnock was not a man to do things by halves. 
               They finally secured his brawny wrists, tying them tightly with the rope they had brought with them. Then they led him out from the dingle, in front of the thick growth of leaves, and Hugh Warnock addressed him, holding him fiercely by one of his shoulders. 
               The negro, in truth, had been nearly drunk, and had retreated to this hiding-place in order to sleep it off. Under ordinary circumstances, therefore, he would have awakened in a stupor; but the sudden fright into which his unforeseen seizure had thrown him, served to bring his natural wits back to him in amazing quick time. 
               "Now answer me, you black rebel!" said Hugh Warnock. "What do you know about Ralph Runnion?" 
               "I-I-I knows nuffin!-jest nuffin at all!" answered the African, shaking vigorously from his head to his heels. 
               "Lieutenant," said the forester, "won't you jest take a sight of this nigger's head, with your rifle, there?" 
               Immediately the young man aimed deliberately at the African's head. 
               "Oh, don't! massa, don't! I beg on ye, don't!" pleaded the negro, trying to raise both hands, as if to ward off any ball that might be intended for his head. 
               "Then stop your lyin' to me!" said Hugh. "All I want of you is, to tell me the truth!" 
               "What trewf? oh, what trewf?" asked the negro, his jaws rattling vigorously together. 
               "Where's Ralph?" 
               "'Pon my soul," pleaded the black. 
               "None o' your lyin', now," said Hugh, turning him round hastily by his shoulder. 
               "I ain't a lyin', 'pon my cullud soul." 
               "Tell me where Ralph is, or I'll hang you up by one o' these grapevines, to the highest tree there is here. Do you hear me? Don't try to deceive me!" 
               "Oh, massa! massa!" 
               "You needn't beg! Only tell all you know! It's the only way you can save your life. Be quick!" 
                
               "All I knows o' Ralph," began he. 
               "Tell us where he is now. Where has be been lately? Where have you been with him? Tell me that, or I'll swing you up in the air from the top limb o' one o' these 'ere trees!" 
               "On'y hear me! On'y hear me!" pleaded the negro. "I'll tell all I know, every bit on't-every single word!" 
               "Well, begin then," said Hugh. 
               "Ralph's a bad man! he's bad ebery way!" began the negro, sagaciously. 
               "We all know that!" said Hugh. "We don't want your opinion o' him!" 
               "Wal, wal-Ralph-massa-" 
               "Where have you been with Ralph lately?" persisted the forester. "I want to know that! My friend, won't you cut a long grape-vine, to put round this nigger's neck?" said he, turning to Lieutenant Hooper's companion. 
               "Oh, massa! massa! On'y hear me!" pleaded the negro again. 
               "Well, then, talk on pretty quick. We can't stay here all day. We've got a good deal o' business before us." 
               "You black rascal!" now exclaimed Lieutenant Hooper, advancing a step towards him and taking deliberate aim at him, "tell where you've been with Ralph lately, and what you've both been doing, or I'll blow your brains out! Speak quick! I give you just one minute!" 
               The negro endeavored to put up his hands imploringly, and began:- 
               "Don't shoot, massa! Don't shoot! I'll tell all-every bit on't. Ralph went over to Hugh Warnock's cabin, an'-an'-an'-" 
               "And what?" demanded the young man. "Speak!" 
               "An' carried off his young darter," said the negro, making a clean breast of it. 
               "And you was with him!" 
               "Oh, massa, I on'y follered him, so't nuffin shouldn't harm him. I nebber touched the gal. I nebber do no sich ting 's dat. Don't believe it ob me, massa." 
               "How did he carry her off?" demanded Hugh Warnock, furiously. 
               "He found her out under de big beech-tree, by de lake, and tied her hands, and-" 
               "You villain!" shouted Hugh, scarcely able to repress his rage. 
               "Where did he carry her?" demanded the young man, still pointing his rifle at his head. 
               "To his hut! To his hut!" 
               "And you went, too?" 
               "Oh, yis, massa, yis; I had to go. Ralph kill me, ef I didn't." 
               "Is she there now?" 
               "I s'pose so. I s'pose so, massa." 
               "Can you find the place?" asked the young man, addressing Hugh. 
               "I reckon so," he answered. "I've had pretty good reason to know something about that place. I've had my suspicions of it these many years." 
               "Shall we all go, then, and find the girl there?" Hugh was silent. 
                
               "You say she's there, do you?" said the young man, turning to the negro. 
               "Yis, massa," quickly returned he. "She's dar." 
               "When did you help to carry her there? How long ago was it?" 
               "Lem me see," said the negro. "Yisterday-no, 'twas only day 'fore yisterday." 
               "We'll tie this feller here," said Hugh, "till we get back." 
               "Why not take him along with us?" inquired Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "I've got a better plan than that," said Hugh. 
               "But something may happen," suggested the young officer. 
               "I'll risk that. We'll tie him here, to this tree, till we come back again. If we don't find Jeanette there, as he says she is, we'll hang him up by the neck just as soon as we lay our hands on him again." 
               "Right!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "He will then only be answering for the truth of his own words. Let him be hung up by the neck, if Jeanette isn't to be found there." 
               "Massa! Massa!" pleaded the black villain. 
               "We don't want to hear none o' your prayers," interrupted Hugh Warnock. "We've heard enough. If we find that you've lied to us, you'll have a fair chance to swing; that's all." 
               "But I don't-I doesn't-massa! I'se-de gal ain't-oh, Massa!-" 
               "Don't tell me another word, you wretch!" ordered Hugh. "Come, let's tie him to this tree. Get ready your rope and grape vine." 
               "I'se got only one word to say!" pleaded the negro. 
               "Say it quick then," ordered Hugh. "You hain't got much time to lose." 
               "I seen that gen'l'man afore." 
               "Who?" 
               "Dat one," he responded, pointing to Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "Where?" asked the young man. 
               "In de woods. 'Twas some time ago. I was with Ralph. Ralph berry bad man. He took aim at him wid his rifle, an'-an'-an'- 
               "I see," instantly interrupted Lieutenant Hooper. "This is the villain who fired at me when I first came into this forest, and when I found an asylum in your hospitable cabin. I see it all now." 
               Hugh was speechless with astonishment. 
               "If I find this fellow," continued the young officer, "he shall pay for it with his life. He is a murderer, and the doom of the outlaw is upon him. He shall die when he falls into my hands." 
               "Yis, massa," chimed in the negro, "Ralph Runnion berry bad man. He steal-he lie-he shoot, an' kill-" 
               "And you don't do much better, do you?" inquired Lieutenant Hooper, thinking still of his wounded shoulder. 
               "God knows I neber do nuffin like dat," ejaculated the African, with much fervor, rolling up his white eyes to give seriousness to his speech. 
               They forthwith made him fast, hand and foot, to the tree near them. Hugh warned him against shouting, or trying to raise an alarm, and assured him that his shout would only be answered with a lead ball in his thick skull. This assurance tended to frighten the negro into temporary silence. 
                
               They then marched rapidly and cautiously away from the place. In a few moments it was as still as if no such scene had so lately been enacted there. 
               The tramp through the woods was both long and tedious. But the excitement of the party tended much to dispel all thoughts of that. The object of their pursuit they firmly believed was now before them. They had only a short walk farther to make, and all their purposes would be answered. 
               They had been gone from their prisoner but a brief time, when a crackling was heard by him in the bushes behind him, and pretty soon a voice called out- 
               "Cully! Cully!" 
               "Ralph!" replied the negro. "Dat you?" 
               "Yis, Cully," said the voice-it was no other than that of the renegade-"where be ye?" 
               "Here, Ralph. Dis way! Come quick! Dis way!" answered the overjoyed negro. 
               Immediately the form of the tory renegade stepped forth from the coppice, and advanced to the tied prisoner. 
               "Good Heavens!" he ejaculated, on seeing what a plight his old companion was in. 
               "Dis is Cully," said the negro. "Don't ye know de nigger? Nigger's got into trouble. Ralph's come jest time to git him out again." 
               "But how's this?" asked the astounded villain. "How's this, Cully? Who's done this 'ere?" 
               "Don't stop to ask no questions," said the African. "Jest cut dese 'ere vines. Let me git loose agin. I'll find time to tell ye arterwards all about dat." 
               "But who did it, Cully? Tell me that now," persisted the renegade. 
               "Ole Hugh Warnock," replied the negro. 
               "Thunder!" exclaimed Ralph. 
               It was one of his most expressive exclamations. 
               In a trice he took out his knife and cut in twain the withes that were wound tightly about him. 
               The African sprang forth to his liberty with a light heart indeed. A smile of mingled derision and joy played over his features as he felt himself once more wholly free. 
               "No ketch de nigger!" said Cully. 
               "Now come on," said the renegade, making the path for him. "But stop! If Hugh Warnock comes back agin, as he will, I'll watch for him, and shoot him. I'll do it!" 
               "You can't do dat, massa," responded the negro. 
               "Why not?" 
               "Case dere's two more with him." 
               "Two more! Who be they?" 
               "One on 'em de same young chap you fired at a horseback, comin' troo de woods a while ago." 
               "No!" exclaimed the renegade, starting back. 
               "Fack," said the negro. 
               "He's after the gal," pursued Ralph. 
                
               "No doubt on't; he had a mighty mess to talk about her, when he was helpin' tie me up here." 
               "He's her lover, I guess," said Ralph. 
               "I reck'n so," replied the negro. 
               "Wal, he won't find much on her to love arter this," said the renegade. 
               "She's most likely gone where you nor he wont hear no more of her." 
               "Nor old Hugh neither," added the negro. 
               "Nor old Hugh Warnock, neither." 
               "Let's be off, Ralph," again suggested Cully. "De blasted rascals'll find the gal aint nowhere dar, and back dey'll come here agin. If dey find me here, I'll go up on one o' those trees, I reck'n, with a grape-vine about my black neck." 
               "Come!" said Ralph, starting off. 
               Immediately they disappeared from view into the dense and dark forest. In a few moments, the spot was buried in silence. 
               They had been gone less than an hour, when back came the three men again who had been on a fruitless search, as the reader already knows, to the hut of the renegade. 
               The old forester sprang hastily to the tree to which he had left the African bound, his heart overflowing with rage. He had not found his child, and he meant to take summary vengeance at once. 
               Instead of grappling with his black prisoner, he saw that the place was altogether deserted. He could hardly believe his eyes. He looked again. There was no mistake. The grape-vine had been cut through and through. The prisoner had escaped. 
               "He's gone!" exclaimed he, so that his companions could hear him. 
               They came up. It was as Hugh Warnock said. They could not find language in which to express their mingled rage, astonishment and chagrin. 
               They examined the withs that had been secured about him, and noted the marks of the knife-blade. 
               "It's Ralph Runnion that did that!" exclaimed the forester, biting his lips in his excessive rage. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               LIFE AT THE FORT. 
               WHEN the two strollers, John Topliff and Oneko, had found that their capture of the girl, Jeanette, had frightened her out of her senses, so that she lay in a swoon upon the ground, they proceeded to make such applications of restoratives as would be likely to insure her speedy revival. It proved to be a somewhat difficult task, but after much perseverance, they accomplished it at last. 
               As soon as her strength was sufficiently regained to admit of it, they proceeded with their captive back to the fort whence they had but a little while before come. 
                
               The journey was long and wearisome, occupying nearly the entire day. They stopped to rest whenever she required it, and offered her such nourishment as they had with them. Oneko, too, was assiduous in gathering roots and herbs, as they went along, with which he compelled her to reinvigorate her exhausted powers. She ate sparingly, and only because of the dire necessity of the thing. She had but one hope-already a faint one, and apparently fast dying out-and that was, to live long enough to see her father and her lover again. 
               It was quite late in the afternoon when they came in sight of the fort. Up to that time, they had sedulously declined enlightening their captive at all respecting her destination. 
               When her eyes first fell upon the clearing-upon the rude stockade-the bastions of earth and stones-and the shapeless structure itself-the evening sun illuminating all with its glorious golden light, and the glistening river still rolling and roaring away in the distance-she felt undefinable sensations. She wondered whether it was among friends or enemies she was going. 
               A few Indians came out a little way to meet them, and escorted them in through the outer gate. 
               Jeanette shuddered sensibly as she passed through, ignorant entirely of what was to be her fate. She sent up a prayer to Heaven-a petition that He would direct all things for her final safety and happiness. After this inward ejaculation, she felt more resigned to whatever might come. Her strength seemed to have grown suddenly greater. She advanced with a firmer tread, and a carriage more erect and assured. 
               The party were met by a soldier-apparently an inferior officer-who, after conferring with John Topliff a few minutes in whispers, led the way for them to the general apartment where the other captives were confined. Without suspecting such a thing, therefore, she was at once ushered into a room where were already seated two gentlemen and their wives, and a young lady of about her own age. 
               They were the clergyman-Mr. Mason-and his wife; Mr. Wilson and his wife, and their daughter Mary. 
               Their eyes were bent upon her with an expression of intense astonishment, as she presented herself in their midst, and they surveyed her with a rigid scrutiny. In the excitement and curiosity of the moment, they even lost sight of their own sufferings, and thought only of her and hers. 
               She tottered across the room, and sat down where the first rude bench offered her a seat. Her dress was much the worse looking for her long travels through the forest, and compared but poorly with that of the young girl who kept gazing at her with so much pity. 
               Jeanette had blue eyes, and luxuriant hair of auburn. Mary Wilson's eyes were a deep black, while her hair was of the same color. The one bore the appearance of being an artless child of the forest; the other had always been bred in the midst of humanizing influences-in the noise of towns, and the din of voices. The mysterious voices of the forest were the only ones with which Jeanette had ever made her ears familiar. 
               After a time, as the embarrassment of her feelings gradually wore away, the others addressed questions to her, and gave her to understand that their own situation there was no better than hers. This served, in a measure, to re-assure her; and in a little while, all were talking as freely as if they had had the acquaintanceship of years. 
               To their inquiries Jeanette answered but little of her forest life. She did not even speak of Hugh, her father. All they could glean from her was, that she had always lived in the wilderness, knowing no friends but her father, and looking only to him for human companionship. 
               The others wondered much, as well they might, that such a being had fallen among them. And they were still more stricken with astonishment, when they saw what natural gracefulness of manner, and what true cultivation of mind and heart, she possessed. It seemed to them an anomaly, that one so apparently barbarous, should be so really refined. They compared her with Mary, the daughter of Mr. Wilson, and found that she lost nothing at all in the comparison. She was quite as charming a girl as she. And her natural beauty certainly was the cause of quite as much attractiveness. 
               For several days after Jeanette was brought a prisoner to the block fort, these other prisoners continued there. None of them knew what disposition remained for them, and none appeared at length to betray any excessive anxiety or alarm. 
               During this time, a deep sympathy between the two maidens had ripened into affection. They went about the apartment together. They were likewise allotted the same room in which to sleep, and there they were wont to go and sit by themselves by the hour together. 
               Jeanette was delighted to hear her companion discourse to her of city life, with which she had always been familiar; and listened with never sated avidity to the stories she told of her parents and her early youth. It seemed, too, that she was not in truth the child of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, but only an adopted child. Yet the affection that subsisted between them, could hardly have been stronger if she had been in reality their own offspring. 
               Jeanette, too, would sit by the side of her companion, and tell her simple tales of her forest life; how she loved the trees, with their million leaves of emerald, when they were burnished by the rising or the setting sun; how she dallied with the wanton winds, letting them play with her long tresses, and tangle themselves with her auburn hair; how she sat beneath the wide-spreading beech tree, by the long hours-looking off upon the glistening lake, dreaming of those she knew not, and had never seen-raising her thoughts to the great God that made all, and still keeps all unimpaired; how she watched the motions of the humming insects, as they swiftly clove the air with their silver wings; how she drank in the melodies of the innumerable forest birds, as they poured them out upon the air from the crowded tree-tops; how she sat in her door at evening, and watched the stars as they came up into the deep of heaven, one by one; and how in the midst of all these scenes, and sights, and sounds, her heart expanded in spite of her own control, and grew good, and went up to God in a psalm of thanksgiving. 
               Mary listened to her always on such occasions, with mingled wonder and affection. She felt that after all, she knew, and could know, but little of the secret history of the heart that had been schooled by such natural means. She became daily a deep riddle to her; yet was she, at the time, a far deeper joy. 
               At length intelligence was brought to the prisoners by a subaltern, that it had been decided to give the two gentlemen and their wives their liberty again. The news was received at first with undisguised pleasure. But when it became known that the daughter, Mary, was required to be left behind for a time, as a hostage for the future peacefulness of those set at liberty, their agony grew great indeed. It was even a question whether they would accept their freedom on such cruel conditions. 
               But there was no other alternative left them. They must either go without her, or remain where they were, with but little further hope of liberty, or perhaps even of life. 
               Revolving the matter carefully in their minds, they at length concluded that if they departed, they would be thrown more in the way of effecting a rescue for their child than where they were. Besides, they counted much upon the opportunities of escape that might be left her there. And again, she was to have Jeanette for a companion in her durance, and such a companionship would certainly prove of great assistance to her. 
               With heavy hearts, therefore, but with prayers for the safety of both the girls on their lips, the clergyman, Mr. Wilson, and their wives, left the fort under the protection and guidance of a party of whites and Indians. They were promised a safe escort to the place where they had first designed to settle. 
               The two girls looked out of their narrow window, through the deep embrasure, and saw their only friends thus cruelly torn from them. Their hearts would have sunk within them, had not each encouraged the other with her presence. The sun was bright, and nature looked inviting to all who loved her. The air was full of bird-music, the echoes of the mingling voices, and the roar of the Mohawk. Had they been anything but prisoners, their hearts would at that moment have overflowed with joy. As it was, the sun itself looked saddened and sorrowful. 
               As far as the eye could penetrate the mazes of the deep forest, they watched the course of their liberated friends in silence. They spoke not a word to each other. Their hearts almost made their own beating audible, in the stillness of their apartment. And when at last, the last faint traces of them vanished altogether in the forest, they turned away their heads sadly from the window, and looked for a moment steadily at each other, without speaking a word. 
               Immediately they burst into tears. 
               Their griefs had swollen in their hearts, till they could grow no greater. They could not at first trust themselves to words. Tears-bitter tears, scalding tears, were their only consolation. 
               At length, their spirits having settled into a calmer mood, they began to talk. It was even a greater-relief then than their burning tears. 
               "What will they do with us?" inquired Mary, as she took Jeanette's hand affectionately in her own and sat down with her on a bench near the window. 
               Jeanette only shook her head despondingly. 
               "I am sure we shall be killed!" said Mary, giving up to her fears. "I don't know why they kept us behind, unless to give us to these savages! We shall be butchered, and scalped, and our friends will never know what has finally become of us! Oh, that I had ever seen this day! Oh, that we ever thought of leaving our comfortable home in the city, only to be murdered in this wilderness!" 
               "We must have patience," suggested Jeanette, much more calm and self-possessed than her companion. 
               "I was so frightened by the Indians, too," said Mary, "When we were all asleep in our encampment! Such terrific yells, and shrieks, and howls of distress, I never heard before!" 
               "It is their custom," replied Jeanette. 
               "Have you ever been among them before, then?" asked Mary, her countenance visibly brightening. 
               "No," answered Jeanette. 
               "Then how do you know this of them? I certainly thought we were all to be murdered!" 
               "I have heard my father speak to me of them," answered Jeanette. 
               "And are they as cruel as they are represented to be by the whites?" 
               "Many of them, I fear, are more so," replied Jeanette. 
               "And have we any thing, then, to hope for here?" 
               "We are not in the power of the Indians here," said Jeanette; "it is the whites." 
               "Nay, but are not the Indians in concert with them? Didn't they bring us to this place at first? Didn't they bring you to this place?" 
               "Yes, a white man and an Indian." 
               "Then that proves just what I say. The whites and the Indians here are banded together; and I have heard it said that in such cases, the whites are apt to be much the more cruel of the two." 
               "It's hard to believe of our own race!" returned Jeanette, with a sigh. 
               "So it is. So it is, indeed. But I wish I could understand their intentions better. I want to know what the object was in keeping us behind." 
               "I should be glad to know that," said Jeanette. 
               "If they let the others go, why not let us go, too!" 
               "Surely!" 
               "If they are deserving of liberty, so are we," added Mary, warming with her subject. 
               "I do not see why we are not as much entitled to it as they," returned Jeanette. 
               And for some time, their conversation thus ran on. 
               But nothing came of it then. They saw nothing to enlighten them respecting their fate. They heard nothing as yet. Their only companion was a young Indian girl, named Babette, who brought them their food with regularity, and performed such other services of kindness as they seemed to require. 
               The weeks began to slip away. The prisoners, however, were no more enlightened respecting what might be in store for them. They began to sink in the depth of the gloom that every where surrounded them. 
               At length they thought a ray of light reached them. It was by accident alone. 
                
               They were sitting in the apartment in which they slept, one afternoon, when they thought they overheard voices in the adjacent apartment. 
               Listening with deep anxiety, they could make out that they were themselves the topic of conversation. They grasped each other by the hand, as if they would live or die together. 
               "When do you think it's best to break the matter to them?" asked one voice. 
               "When do you say?" replied the other. 
               "I think we have waited already long enough," said the first speaker. 
               "And so do I," chimed in the second. 
               "The one with the blue eyes and the auburn hair, is the beauty for me," said the first. 
               "The black-eyed beauty for me," returned the second. 
               And then they broke forth into a fit of laughter, that for the moment seemed uncontrollable. 
               The two girls sat trembling with indescribable fear. They knew not what this could mean. 
               Again the conversation between the two men began. It was too plainly concerning the future welfare of the two defenceless prisoners. 
               It was so coarse, and so disagreeable in its tone-and so sunk in its humanity-that they could not endure it. Rising hastily from their seat, they glided noiselessly from the apartment into the adjacent one. 
               Here they sat down again. Their eyes filled with tears. Their hearts were overwhelmed with terror. 
               At length the evening came down, curtaining about every thing with shadow. 
               The girls sought their bed, first offering up a fervent prayer to Heaven for their safety. No warning would they have of their dreaded danger. There was no friend there to whisper it in their ears. They trusted all to God. 
               While they still lay in their bed, sleep refusing to visit their lids, the noises and voices about the fort having all died away, save only the drowsy tread of the sentinel on the rampart. Jeanette suddenly felt her arm touched lightly by some one. 
               She might have screamed at once; but a low voice instantly whispered in her ear:- 
               "It is only Babette! She comes to do her pale-faced sisters a service!" 
               The girls at once arose from their reclining position, and welcomed the generous Indian maiden with blessings innumerable. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE ESCAPE-RE-UNION. 
               As soon as they had become a trifle more calm, the Indian girl whispered again to them- 
               "Keep quiet! There shall no harm come!" 
                
               "But what does this mean?" asked Mary, not yet understanding what it all meant. "How are you here to-night?" 
               "I know what is going to happen," replied the girl. 
               "What?" quickly inquired Jeanette. 
               "I've heard the pale faces talk," said she. 
               "Who? who?" asked both girls at once. 
               "Be quiet! Do not make a noise! I come to do my pale faced sisters a good; will they hear me?" 
               "Certainly; certainly!" 
               "They will carry you off to the frontier," said the Indian. 
               "Who will carry us off?" 
               "Those who now confine my sisters." 
               "How do you know this?" inquired Jeanette. 
               "Who told you this?" as quickly repeated Mary. 
               "I sat on the floor only yesterday," said she, "and the sounds came to my ears through the walls." 
               "The same we heard," whispered Mary to her companion, pulling her by the arm. 
               "The two pale faces plan to carry my sisters far off. There is no truth in what they say. They say you shall stay safe here; and now they will carry you off through the forest, to the far-away forts. There be-" 
               "But why will they do that?" asked Mary. "What wrong have we done, that our captivity should be so much prolonged?" 
               "Babette knows not. She loves her pale sisters. They are very dear to her heart." 
               "She is our friend!" whispered Mary to Jeanette. 
               "Certainly," replied Jeanette; "we cannot do better than to give ourselves up to her guidance. There may be hope for us." 
               "Where is the place to which they talk of carrying us?" pursued Mary. 
               "Oh, it be many-many weary miles away. I cannot say how far." 
               "In the forest?" 
               "All in the thick forest. No houses-no villages-no pale faces by the way!" 
               "Oh dear!" exclaimed Mary, "we are lost!" 
               "Do not grieve too much!" returned Babette. "If you stay here till morning, there is but a very little hope for you." 
               "Then what shall we do? Here it is, only a few hours to dawn! What shall we do?" 
               "Oh, what shall we do?" repeated Mary, less able to control herself than her companion. 
               "I have come in the still night to help my sisters," calmly replied Babette. 
               "To help us?" exclaimed Mary. "How can you help us? You are nothing but a poor, weak girl like ourselves. What can you do for us, among these ruffian soldiers?" 
               "Let her speak for herself," whispered Jeanette in her ear. 
               "Babette is not strong, she knows," replied the Indian girl; "but she is cunning." 
                
               The girls kept a painful silence. They knew she had formed a plan for their safety. 
               "The men are all sound asleep," continued the friendly Indian girl. "The watch-dog has ceased his barking. There is no moon in the midnight sky; nothing but clear stars. The wind sweeps through the forest, and makes a cry like a troubled spirit. The night is dark." 
               "What shall we do then?" asked Jeanette, growing somewhat impatient to know. 
               "Come with me," replied Babette. "The hours are going. There are but few between this and morning." 
               "But where are you going?" 
               "The pale faces shall see." 
               "How shall we get out of this room?" asked Mary. "It is our prison!" 
               "How did Babette get in here, then?" asked the girl in reply. 
               "Right! but then how shall we go outside the barracks!" 
               "Babette shall show the way." 
               "Does she know it herself so well, then?" 
               "Only this hour did she come from the forest." 
               "Impossible!" 
               "Babette speaks only the truth. Will her pale faced sisters come?" 
               "You will conduct us safely?" 
               "No harm can reach you," answered the devoted girl. 
               Forthwith the two maidens arose from their bed, and proceeded to equip themselves for their adventure. 
               Babette kept enjoining upon them both haste and silence, for she assured them that their only hope of safety was contained in that hour. 
               In all possible haste, therefore, yet naturally with much trembling of their limbs, and with many misgivings, too, they set about making themselves ready. At last all preparations were completed. 
               "Lead us on!" whispered Jeanette. 
               "Heaven suffer our effort to prove successful!" ejaculated Mary, grasping her companion's arm. 
               "Only keep silent!" enjoined Babette. 
               "We will-we will!" both answered. 
               "Do nothing but follow me, then! If you hear a noise that frightens you, do not cry out. Keep silence. If you cry you are lost-and Babette too. Will you promise?" 
               "We will not so much as whisper," replied Mary, now deeply excited. 
               "Follow!" ordered the Indian. 
               At once they passed through the door of their outer room, which in some mysterious way Babette had unfastened, and found themselves in an upper hall. Mary could have wished to stop and ask their generous guide how she had managed to open the door of their prison; but she remembered the warning she had just dropped them, and with an effort kept silence. 
               Babette took pains to carefully shut the door after her, even securing it again. 
               She knew that if they were not visited by any one until a late hour, the chances of their safety would be so much increased. 
                
               Like cats or panthers, they stealthily crept along behind Babette, she guiding herself by the wall as she went. Through the hall-down the rude stairs, so lightly that not even a crazy board creaked-across another space-through one room, kept for the purposes of an armory for the soldiers, and wherein two or three men were loudly snoring-through still another room-then beneath an open shed, where the night air smelt fresh and cool-and at last out into the open yard or enclosure itself. 
               Here they grouped together again, hiding in the angle formed by two of the walls of the fort. The shadow served well to conceal them. 
               A sentinel was drowsily pacing to and fro upon the outer works, where the slightest noise could at once reach his ears. Ever and anon his musket rattled fiercely upon a stone, or sunk with a dull sound into the sod. It startled the poor maidens. A shudder ran through their frames. 
               Babette whispered again: 
               "We must wait here a little while!" 
               "Why?" asked Jeanette. 
               "Yes; why can we not go right on now, before we are overtaken?" pursued Mary. 
               "My pale-faced sister must not be in too much haste," returned Babette. "Only be quiet. We may lose all if we are too eager. Be silent now." 
               "But when will the sentinel leave his place?" inquired Jeanette. "He will walk there all night!" 
               "No," said Babette. 
               A pause ensued. 
               "Why don't he stop walking so steadily before us?" asked Mary grown impatient. 
               "He will soon," answered Babette. 
               "Does he pass thus all the night?" inquired Mary. 
               "No; only a few hours. His time is most out." 
               "And then what will he do?" 
               "He will go away-" 
               "And another take his place?" interrupted Mary. 
               "Yes." 
               "And then-" 
               "We must escape as soon as he leaves the spot!" said Babette. 
               "But how can we do it? How can we get down to the other side?" asked Mary again. 
               "We cannot go through the gate, Babette?" inquired Jeanette. 
               "No." 
               "But how then?" 
               "Only be quiet. Don't talk more. The man may hear us. I will lead you the way." 
               At once the girls relapsed into silence. It was difficult for them to do so, but it was almost the only condition of their safety. 
               The night winds were crying in the forest, and the roar of the river mingled with them. The night was dark, and but for the light of the stars, would have been gloomy. 
               As the two girls stood crouching there in the shadow, their thoughts were both fearful and checkered. Jeanette's thoughts were far away upon the distant home of her father; now, alas, deprived of its only light and sunshine. She thought, too, upon her young lover, and wondered what his feelings would be when he returned to her cot only to find it desolate. 
               The mind of Mary brooded over her past and present condition. In the contrast she was able to find much that greatly troubled her. Her heart had not yet been schooled to such trials, and her spirit brooked their inflictions with no degree of fortitude or patience whatever. 
               They felt the chills and the damps of the air of the night, and their clothing was at the best but scanty. They had but little time for equipping themselves faithfully for a long journey. 
               At length, as Babette had predicted, the sentinel ceased his march, and retired from his post. He passed not far from where the girls stood in the angle of the wall; but he did not espy them. They were safe. 
               "Now!" suddenly whispered Babette. "Not a whisper! Not a word! Only follow us! Do not ask a question!" 
               The girl immediately pushed forward through the enclosure, and leaped up the embankment. 
               They followed quickly and silently on. 
               They reached the parapet. They stood on the very spot where the sentinel had just been himself. Crossing this as quick almost as thought, they were on the extreme edge of the high embankment or palisade. 
               A voice called from the other side: 
               "Babette!" 
               "Hush! I am here!" answered she at once, in a low and mysterious tone. 
               Again cautioning the girls against making the slightest noise, and bidding them fall quickly to the ground, and there crouch out of sight, she leaned far over the wall herself, and again called: 
               "Are you there?" 
               A voice answered in a very low tone- 
               "Yes. Are you ready? Be quick!" 
               "Place the ladder against the wall!" said Babette. 
               "It is there," replied the voice. 
               "Now climb down by that spot," said the girl, turning round to her companions. "You go first. Be quick! The time goes by! Quick! The guard will be back!" 
               It would be impossible to describe the excitement and confusion into which the two girls were thrown. The greater the need of calmness, the less able seemed they to control themselves. 
               Jeanette insisted on Mary's getting down first, and she hastily did so. 
               Then she followed herself. 
               And, at last, the Indian girl came too. 
               Having reached the ground, the two girls beheld the form of an Indian near them. They were at first inclined to cry out with terror, forgotten in their excitement, that he was only their efficient benefactor. 
               Babette at length spoke. 
               "Gregomet, take down the ladder! Be quick! Lead on the way! The guard will soon be back! These are my pale-faced sisters! Quick, Gregomet! Quick!" 
                
               Instantly he shouldered the rude ladder, and marched off into the darkness. 
               Babette was close upon his heels, and the two liberated captives followed her. 
               They reached the bank of the river in silence. 
               "In! In!" said Gregomet, pointing to a batteau that was moored near the shore. 
               "Jump in! Lose not a minute! In! In!" repeated Babette. 
               The excited girls sprang in, nearly causing the little boat to careen as they did so. 
               "In, Babette!" said the Indian. 
               "Come, Gregomet!" called out the girl, as soon as she had taken her seat near her white companions. 
               The Indian pushed off, leaping in lightly as he did so. 
               "We are safe!" said Babette, speaking in a low tone to her companions. 
               "Thank Heaven!" ejaculated both in a breath. 
               The Indian plied the paddle with great industry and dexterity. The stream was rapid, and the shores were shadowy. With great cunning he kept in the shadows until they had passed out of sight of the fort, and then pushed boldly out into the stream. 
               For some distance he suffered the force of the stream to bear them along, the boat only minding the helm he employed. There was but little spoken. Silence settled down upon all. The girls lost themselves in their thoughts, and fears, and exultations. 
               At length they reached an indented cove, or bay, in the opposite bank, into which Gregomet guided the boat. Reaching the land, they disembarked. Gregomet drew up the boat far upon the beach, and made it secure. 
               Then Jeanette broke the silence. 
               "Now where shall we go?" asked she, addressing Babette. 
               "I will tell." 
               "Yes, where?" added Mary. 
               "When my sister's friends went away, Gregomet followed through the forest." 
               "Then he knows-" 
               "Gregomet knows where they met!" interrupted she. 
               "And will he conduct us-" began Jeanette. 
               "My pale sisters shall follow him. He will show them where their friends be!" 
               "And Babette will come too?" asked Mary. 
               "It cannot be," answered she, sorrowfully. "Babette's heart will grieve; but her sisters will be happy! The Indian maiden will see her pale-faced sisters again!" 
               Persuasion was useless. They took an affecting leave of their generous deliverer, and commended her to the love and protection of Heaven. 
               For two days and nights thereafter, they pursued their silent way through the trackless forest, with no guide but Gregomet. He had supplied himself with abundant provisions for them all. 
               On the morning of the third day, tired and worn, they reached the little tle village where the other captives at the fort-their relatives and friends-had been conducted. 
               They reached the house. Gregomet had taken his final leave of them. 
               They opened the door; and in an instant were in the arms of Mr. Wilson and his wife. 
               The joy of such a re-union would lose every thing in the description. We leave it altogether to the imagination of the reader. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE UNEXPECTED MEETING. 
               IN the depth of the wilderness, on a warm afternoon in Summer, there was a lone being. 
               He was seated on a moss-coated tree trunk, one of the old monarchs of the wood that had long since been dethroned, and his head rested on his hand. 
               A fit of musing seemed to have come over him. Occasionally he murmured strange syllables, that jarred horribly upon the stillness. Anon he clutched fiercely at his long hair with his hands, as if he would pluck it out of his head. And yet again, he rolled his eyes fiercely up through the thick standing trees, and glared steadily through the crowding leaves, as if he would read some dread secret in the deep blue beyond. 
               "Would to God I could escape this!" he muttered, clenching his hand. "I am, of all men, most wretched! There is no peace for me! I know no rest by day!-no sleep by night! I am miserable! a wanderer! an outcast! an outlaw! Did I say outlaw? Ha! ha! ha! No-no! Not yet-not yet! Not so far gone as that yet!" 
               And then, after such words, he would relapse into silence and thoughtfulness again. 
               He was tolerably clad, and his only companion was a rifle. It stood by his side, to be ready in case of immediate necessity. His hat had been just laid beside him, so that the drifting breezes bathed his temples, and cooled his veins. 
               The scene about him was such a forest scene as no description can convey a just idea of. It was so still. The air was so dreamy and so fragrance-laden. The blotches of light fell so picturesquely through the masses of leaves overhead, and played so strangely upon the tapestried trunks of the ancient trees. There was such solemnity brooding everywhere. And in the middle of a summer afternoon, too;-no place so entrancing, so inviting, and so dreamy, then, as the deep of a silent, shadowy, sombre wood. 
               "If I could but break through these meshes!" exclaimed he. 
               He told not what meshes he meant; nor who had woven them. 
               "If I can but regain my liberty again! But no; I cannot do that! I am hemmed in on every side! They have told me not to try escape! He has told me that! And there is such a fierce glare in his eye! and such a line of fierce determination about his mouth! and such sternness in his very purpose! No-no! I cannot escape him! I must not think of it!" 
               "Would to Heaven he were here now! Oh, for but a single sight at him with this rifle of mine! How quickly would I be the free man again I am not now. How quickly would I break away from these wilderness fetters, and once more be only myself again. What a relief would only the touch of that trigger not bring me! What joy would there not be in once levelling its murderous barrel at his head!"-and as he spoke, he took up his rifle again, and commenced examining it closely. 
               The man himself was James Grandison. 
               While he sat there upon the huge butt of the fallen tree, alternately examining the condition of his means of defence and muttering his soul's dire troubles to the silence, his attention was suddenly arrested by the approaching sounds of a human voice. He grasped his rifle more firmly, and listened with fear. 
               "It is I! The Wild Medicine knows no fear! He roams through the wide forest, but no harm reaches him there! He is troubled with no fears! He has no bad dreams! Because he has no dark deeds to do!" 
               "It's that crazy villain!" muttered Grandison aloud. "I'll shoot him! Now's my time! And then I am forever free! yes-free!" and he rose excitedly from his seat with the words. 
               "The wolf goes abroad in the night!" the intruder continued singing aloud-"but not so with the eagle! The wild-bat flies in the shadows, but the lark is abed, nestled in with the long grass and the dews! It is the wolf that creeps through the woods in the darkness, and his fangs strike no one knows where! His cries ring through the forest! The white man shudders, and the red man fears!" 
               Just then he stopped singing. 
               Grandison caught sight of his figure, and watched him as he approached. At length he raised his rifle. 
               The Wild Medicine kept coming nearer, and still nearer, not observing his enemy. Finally he chanced to throw his eyes in the direction of the place where he was, and saw him with terrible distinctness. 
               He paused in his walk. 
               Grandison drew his rifle to his shoulder. 
               "James Grandison!" instantly shouted the intruder. 
               "I will put death between him and me, and then I shall be safe!" exclaimed the trader. "No other way is left for me! If I but pull this trigger, I am free! It is but a single motion! I will do it!" 
               And with the words, he snapped the cock of the rifle. 
               The sharp crack resounded all through the wood. 
               It missed fire. 
               "No-no-no, James Grandison!" exclaimed the Wild Medicine, coming still nearer while he spoke. "I am not to fall thus! Not to-day! Not to-day! My work is not yet all done! I have somewhat yet to do!" 
               He stretched out his arm authoritatively, with the words. 
               The eye of Grandison quailed. Slowly dropping his rifle, he looked upon his approach, and sullenly awaited him. 
               "I have to talk with you, James Grandison!" said he. "Why seek you to take my life? Heaven will not permit that crime yet! The day has not come for it! I have yet much to say to you! Much that bear closely with your happiness!" 
               "Why do you haunt me, like an evil spirit?" asked Grandison, essaying to talk him down. "Do you know all the risks you run?" 
               "Do I know them? Well indeed do I know them!" returned the Wild Medicine. "But they are as nothing by the side of your own! Fear not for me! No hair of my head shall be harmed! My time is not yet! It is not now!" 
               "You follow my path like a ravenous beast!" said Grandison. "I have no peace, night or day! My heart knows no rest!" 
               "And never will! Ha! ha! ha!" wildly laughed his strange companion. 
               "By Heavens!" exclaimed Grandison, again raising his rifle; "I will shoot you now, and then I shall be at peace!" 
               "You will only be involved in greater difficulties!" replied Wild Medicine. "If I were but to blow my whistle, the forest would be alive with Indian warriors! So beware how you threaten!" 
               "You are a villain! Why do you follow me up so closely? You are a villain! I will have your life!" 
               "Hold!" exclaimed the other. 
               But before the word was spoken Grandison had raised his rifle to his shoulder and fired! 
               He was in a state of such excitement, and consequently fired so much at random, that his ball failed to take effect, as he most certainly had designed, upon his enemy. It flew by Wild Medicine, striking a branch that protruded near him, and splintering off several pieces. 
               "There!" exclaimed Wild Medicine. "You have had your shot! Now it's my turn!" and he raised his rifle to his shoulder, taking deliberate aim. 
               "Fire!" shouted Grandison. "I would be out of this misery!" 
               "No-no! Not yet! Not yet!" replied his enemy, again lowering his piece. "It's not I who commits murder! Live! Live to be miserable! Live to be wretched! But if you try to load again for me, be sure that I shall fire! You cannot do that twice! I have run my chance! Now take your own!" 
               "Why are you always on my track, villain?" shouted Grandison, in a rising frenzy. "Why do you pursue me like a hungry wolf? If you would have my life, take it! It's your's! Take it! I shall then be out of my misery!" 
               "Not yet!" again replied the Wild Medicine. "Another than I has your worthless life in His keeping! Bide your time! You do not yet know all!" 
               "Wretch! Villain! Vagabond!" exclaimed the enraged trader. 
               He would have been glad to re-load his rifle, and put an end to this at once; but the words and the look of his enemy kept him at bay. He hardly dared to move. 
               "Why do you call me villain?" asked Wild Medicine. "You forget! Your memory is poor! Think again!" 
               "Because there are no greater villains than you!" he replied. 
               "Does James Grandison remember old acquaintances?" asked Wild Medicine. "Does he remember Miles Morton, the poor mechanic-his poor, broken-hearted tenant?" 
               "Yes! And you are he? Why do you ask?" 
               "Do you remember the funeral of the poor man's son? Do you know what was done with the corpse of the child? Can you tell me anything of this? The wolf prowls in the night! Ha! ha! ha!" and the wild, demoniacal laugh of the poor lunatic rang loudly through all the wood. 
               Grandison said nothing. He could not say aught in his own justification. Too well knew he that his guilt was plain. It had a thousand eyes. They glared at him fiercely. It had a thousand tongues. They told him of his crime in horrid syllables. The very air for the moment was filled with the terrible sounds. 
               The silence was but the confession. 
               "You took away the body of the poor man's child while it was in the coffin!" continued Wild Medicine. "You wanted your debt, and got it! This was years ago!" 
               A pause. 
               "There came a change! You was a father yourself!" 
               The trader's face was pale in the extreme. The memory of other times rolled over his hardened heart. 
               "You had a boy! Your father's heart yearned towards him! You loved him, as I loved my boy! Were we not both, then, human? Were we not both brothers?" 
               He gave him time to reflect as he went along with his narrative; but Grandison said nothing. 
               "Your dear boy," continued Wild Medicine-"he, around whom your heart's tenderest fibres had wound themselves, was taken away! You grieved sorely for his loss!" 
               "How knew you of it?" interrupted Grandison. "How knew you?" 
               "No matter for that," he went on; "I knew! I was not near; but I knew! You lost your darling boy! You never knew where he went! You think him dead!" 
               "And he is?" shouted the trader, his feelings working terribly upon him. 
               "He is not!" replied Wild Medicine. 
               "What? What do you say?" cried Grandison, springing excitedly towards him. "What do I hear?" 
               "He lives!" said Wild Medicine. 
               "Where? Where? What do you know?" 
               "You shall one day know all yourself!" returned Wild Medicine. "It is not for me to tell you now! The time has not come yet! Live on, and be wretched! It is your doom. It was my curse. Be wretched. Know not what peace is. It was my last curse. How well it has followed you! Ha! ha! ha!" 
               "Villain!" exclaimed the almost distracted trader, "tell me all, or I will have your life! Where is my child? If he lives, where is he? Tell me, wretch! I'll have your worthless life. I'll follow you to the ends of the earth!" 
               "Not yet! Not yet! Ha! ha! ha!" were the only sounds that told him where his enemy was. 
               He looked for him to pursue him; but he had vanished suddenly into the distant gloom of the forest. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE FINAL SETTLEMENT-A NEW FEATURE. 
               A couple of beings were together in the woods, not a very long time after Jeanette was captured and carried into the fort. 
               They were John Topliff, the agent of Grandison, and the Indian guide and traitor, Oneko. 
               They were several miles away from the fort, which they had left several days before. They had received their pay for bringing in Jeanette, as well as an extra premium for promising eternal silence thereafter respecting her existence. 
               Each carried his own proportion of the spoils about his own person. There was likewise a plentiful supply of rum among their stock of provisions, of which they had already made apparently liberal use. In fact, they were very fast becoming highly excited with growing intoxication. 
               Finally they came to a place with which they seemed nowise unfamiliar. It was on an eminence, and crowned with a growth of tall trees. Just without the body of the wood, however, was a small clearing, skirting the same, and stretching off to the edge of a high and jagged precipice. 
               Below this precipice brimmed the clear and glistening waters of a small lake. It slept in the forest like a mirror, beautifully set about with a framework of rocks, trees, leaves, and dangling vines. 
               One might well wonder why two such hardened characters as Topliff and Oneko should select such a spot for a favorite rendezvous. Yet so it was, for all the wonder. 
               It was towards the hour of sunset. The golden light came over the green tree-tops, and in parallel bars between their embossed trunks, burnishing every place and object it touched with a coating of gold. No jewels on fair brows and beautiful arms ever glistened more gloriously than did the setting sun upon hill-top, tree-trunk, and lake. No pageantry, decked out with all the wealth, and taste, and refinement of olden cities and famous towns, ever made so gorgeous a display. No apparel, the handiwork of skillful laborers, ever displayed itself to such advantage. Such efforts of Nature no labors of Art could ever hope to rival. They might copy them, it is true; faintly, imperfectly, and upon a diminutive scale; but that would be all. 
               So does Nature, always and everywhere, stand unrivalled and without a master. 
               John Topliff and the Indian at length sat down beneath one of the large trees that grew just upon the edge of the natural clearing. They had been tramping already a considerable distance, and felt weary. 
               The Indian stretched himself out first, and said, as he quickly did so: 
               "Rum! Oneko wants more." 
                
               "You aint no drier 'n I am, I guess," twanged out his whiter companion. "Here's the place, arter all, for us, Oneko." 
               "Ugh!" responded the Indian. 
               "Will you drink fust," said Topliff, "or shall I? Jest's you say." 
               "Oneko," returned the Indian, stretching forth his hand. "Give! give! Oneko dry. Indian need more fire-water." 
               Forthwith John Topliff proceeded to draw forth a miniature cask from the old sack that contained their joint stock of provisions. Taking out the bung, he put his nose down to the hole, and snuffed eagerly. Then he passed it to his companion, looking wistfully as he did so. 
               The Indian drank plentifully. His confession of being "dry," could not have been a baseless one. 
               It was some time before he made any signs of relaxing his hold upon the cask. 
               "You've got your share!" cried out Topliff, reaching forth his hand to snatch the vessel from him. "You've got your share! Hold on! There won't be none left for me!" 
               Still the Indian kept alternately drawing long and heavy breaths, and gulping down huge swallows of the rum. At last John Topliff was compelled to take it away from his lips almost by main force. 
               Giving the Indian a hard look, he applied his own mouth to the orifice, and abundantly vindicated his claims to the possession of an exceedingly vigorous and capacious draught, so far as that peculiar liquid was concerned. 
               As soon as both were temporarily satisfied, they commenced one of their ordinary forest talks with each other, in which, as it was so incoherent and so much shaded by inuendoes, the reader would probably find but little to interest him. For some time this kind of conversation was prolonged. 
               As the brain of John Topliff grew maddened with the influences of the drink, it began to rapidly concert any and all sorts of designs. Now he proposed to Oneko to go off and rob an emigrant, wherever one could be found. Now he spoke of murdering some one else, in the hope of finding a sum of money. Again he concerted some villany among the very Indians with whom they regularly consorted. And yet again, he thought-though he dared not speak it-of murdering his Indian companion himself, for the sake of the money he knew was about his person. 
               But this latter project slept within his own brain. If by a single word, or a careless act, he had betrayed its existence, the wily Indian would have been too agile, and too revengeful by far, to permit him ever to escape free again. 
               Yet the Indian's money troubled him. As he felt just then, he wanted it. Covetousness grew upon him with intoxication. 
               After eyeing Oneko severely for some time, during which but little had been spoken by either, he at length addressed him, and began a conversation somewhat as follows: 
               "Oneko, how much did you git for your helpin' me carry that gal to the fort, and never sayin' nothin' about it?" 
               "Indian got the money," replied he, his small, dark eyes twinkling with pleasure. 
                
               "Let's see," said Topliff, stretching forth his neck for an imaginary view. 
               Oneko fumbled about his person for the object. 
               "Show it!" said Topliff again. 
               He drew forth his spoils from his pocket,-a ragged apartment in a still more ragged-looking garment he wore upon him. Holding it up to his companion, he said: 
               "See! See! Oneko earned this!" 
               There were four pieces of glittering gold. 
               The sight of them inflamed John Topliff still more. His eyes brightened with the view. A flush overspread his face, like a veil of deep crimson. He thought he could scarcely keep his hands from them. 
               "How many?" asked he. 
               "One-two-three-" said the Indian. 
               "That's as many as I've got!" returned Topliff. "I don't think we ought to be served alike!" 
               The Indian gave him an indescribable look. 
               "Didn't Oneko help carry in the pale face?" he asked, still gazing at Topliff. 
               "Yas-but-" 
               "Didn't Oneko do as much as John Topliff?" 
               "Yas-but who found her fust?" said the latter. 
               The Indian paused. 
               "Who found her fust?" persisted he. 
               "You," replied the Indian. "What of that?" 
               "Then don't I deserve the biggest part o' the reward?" he asked. 
               "No. Oneko cannot see." 
               "Can't, hey?" 
               "No." 
               "But I say I do!" retorted Topliff, making an angry gesture with his right hand. 
               "No!" sullenly persisted the Indian. 
               "I do!" angrily retorted his white companion again. "I was the fust one to find her-and I've got the biggest secret to keep-and I've-" 
               "Ugh!" ejaculated the Indian. 
               Both were now in a high state of dangerous excitement. The liquor they had so freely imbibed, too, tended only to increase, rather than allay it. 
               Their eyes flashed fire. Those of the white man were as living coals. The Indian's twinkled in their deep cavities, with an expression that was much more sinister and forbidding. 
               "It's fair," said John Topliff, "that you sh'd divide with me!" 
               "Ugh!" again exclaimed the Indian. 
               "I say you ought to do it!" again urged the agent of Grandison. 
               "John Topliff can't make me see why," replied the Indian. 
               "I have told ye already." 
               "Ugh!" said the Indian again. 
               "What did the commander say to me?" asked the agent. 
               "Oneko don't know. What?" 
               "Didn't he say that I was a brave fellow?-and if it warnt fur me, there'd be a good many things left undone, that are done up now as they ought ter be?" 
               "Don't know! Indian don't-" 
               "Didn't he say't John Topliff was a pattern o' men-one that a feller could depend on?" 
               The Indian looked steadily at him, but made no reply. 
               "He did!" added the white man. "He did! he said all a man could say in the praise of another. He said there warnt another such a man as John Topliff, anywhere round." 
               Still the Indian remained silent. 
               "Now ain't it as much as fair?" asked Topliff. 
               As he spoke, he rose slowly to his feet. 
               The Indian's eyes twinkled with a new ferocity. 
               "Hadn't I ought ter have a part o' what you've got?" he persisted. 
               Oneko rose to his feet likewise. 
               "Don't ye think I had, now?" 
               "Ugh! Ugh!" were his guttural exclamations. 
               "Will ye go back, any way, and leave it all to the captain now?" 
               "Ugh!" said the Indian. 
               "Why won't ye talk? All ye say is-'Ugg! Ugg!' Why don't ye talk? I say-will ye go back and-" 
               "No!" replied Oneko. 
               "Why not?" asked Topliff. 
               "Indian love money well as white man," replied the besotted creature. "Oneko keep all he gets!" 
               "But if it ain't yourn?" suggested Topliff. 
               "The pale face give it to Oneko." 
               "Yas-but-" 
               "What Oneko takes is his!" interrupted the Indian. "How is it another's?" 
               "But in such a case as this-" 
               "No difference!" 
               "I say there is, now!" replied Topliff. 
               "Did Oneko refuse to get food for the pale-faced squaw by the way?" asked the Indian. 
               "No," answered his companion. 
               "Or water?" 
               "No." 
               "Did he say he keeps not a secret?" pursued he, growing more earnest with his subject. 
               "I don't charge ye with blabbin'!" said Topliff. 
               "Oneko keeps everything here," returned the Indian, giving his breast a heavy slap with his palm. 
               "So do I." 
               "Then we both have got our pay. Let us keep the secret of where the pale-faced maiden is." 
               "Of course I shall," said Topliff. "But that warnt what I was talkin' about!" 
               "Ugh!" returned the Indian. 
               "I say it's fair, Oneko," continued Topliff, "that you should give me a part o' your money. Will you do it?" 
                
               The Indian shook his head negatively. 
               "I swear you shall!" exclaimed Topliff. 
               "Ugh, ugh!" replied the Indian, drawing back. 
               Forthwith John Topliff, mad with the excitement of avarice and rum, dashed franticly towards Oneko. 
               The latter had just time to secrete his money, and received him with open arms. 
               In a moment they were fast locked together. 
               Topliff roared at the top of his voice. He hoped thus to frighten his opponent. 
               The Indian only kept making his guttural noises-"ugh! ugh!" 
               Both tugged hard in their efforts for the mastery. 
               John Topliff thought of the precipice. 
               "He shall go over!" flashed across his mind, and his purpose was formed. 
               It was some time before the Indian saw what his enemy's object was. The excessive potations in which he had indulged, had obfuscated him. 
               Topliff kept edging towards the precipice, taking care to keep the Indian on the dangerous side. He was a muscular man, though not a whit more agile than the Indian. He was therefore obliged to exert himself to the utmost, in order to keep the upper hand, or even to keep on an equality with his enemy. 
               Slowly they neared the edge of the precipice. Oneko now saw what was the purpose of Topliff. He was hurrying on to his destruction. 
               As soon as they had reached a sufficiently safe propinquity, to enable Topliff space and time to recover himself, after he should throw off the Indian, the former again asked Oneko:- 
               "Will ye give me half, if I'll let you go now?" 
               "No!" answered the Indian. 
               "Then you shall die," exclaimed Topliff. 
               "Ugh!" responded the Indian. 
               "Go off there!" exclaimed Topliff, making a sudden movement to fling him off the precipice, just as they reached its brink. 
               The mere sight of the place made him dizzy. 
               "Off with ye. Die, you red Indian!" exclaimed he, as he made an almost superhuman effort to rid himself of him. 
               "No," said Oneko, retaining tightly his hold, "John Topliff go too!" 
               "You rascal of an Indian," cried Topliff, in a paroxysm of rage and fear. 
               "Come!" exclaimed the Indian, in a sullen tone, grappling his enemy for the death-struggle. 
               "No-no!" screamed Topliff. 
               "Come, John Topliff," again called Oneko. 
               "Off! let off your hands! No-no!" yelled Topliff. 
               "Ugh, ugh!" were the last words of the Indian, as he clasped his opponent with tighter hug, and both stood a second on the dizzy edge-they toppled-reeled forward-staggered from their foothold, and went down together. 
               Down-down-down, till there was heard a dull splash in the distant lake. 
                
               Both clung fiercely together in that stern embrace to the last. They fell with a heavy sound into the water. It opened its crystal waves to receive them. And then the parted waves closed together again, and locked them down in a dreamless sleep forever. 
               They had evenly divided the fruits of their iniquity. 
               At about the same hour of the same day, there were encamped a few companies of American troops in the forest, on their way to succor the settlers on the Mohawk, against the violence and cruelty of the Tories and Indians. 
               There were several officers in command of the troops, among whom was Lieutenant Hooper. He had been ordered from his last place of rendezvous off to this frontier, expecting nothing but hard work and danger for his portion. 
               They were bound for a more distant point; but being overtaken with night, and being furthermore excessively fatigued with their march, they had just pitched their tents for the night, where the reader finds them. 
               Among the soldiers in one of the companies, was Hugh Warnock. 
               Despairing of ever finding his child again, he had finally enlisted in the service of America, and was now on his way with others to the sanguinary scenes that were enacted through the Mohawk valley during the war. He was ever restless, but his heart told him that he had no object left to keep him in the forest, since Jeanette was gone. He had given her up forever, and tried to drive away his gloomy feelings by plunging into scenes full of excitement and peril. 
               Lieutenant Hooper and Hugh Warnock were seated together on a log, just without the encampment. 
               The scene was quiet and provocative of thought. In their breasts, it only awoke the pleasantest associations and memories. 
               The distance that usually exists between officer and soldier, did not then exist between them. Their hearts were too much bound up in the contemplation of one single object. 
               The reader too well knows that object was Jeanette. 
               The conversation began with this point, and diverged liberally. Still it never lost its hold upon the original subject. 
               "Mister Hooper," said Hugh, after a long break in the conversation had been tolerated, "I've got a secret that lays on my mind, and it is got to be told to you some time or other. And why not as well now as any other time?" 
               The young officer looked at his companion with the deepest surprise. 
               "It's a secret that concerns you, too," continued Hugh, "because it concerns Jeanette." 
               "What is it? You plunge me in a mystery," said the young man. 
               "I've kept it as long as I could," said Hugh; "but I can do it no longer. Besides, it can't be of any use to try to." 
               "What do you mean?" again inquired the lieutenant. 
               "Jeanette's not my daughter!" replied Hugh, dropping his voice to a mysterious tone. 
               "What!" exclaimed Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "I tell you the truth," said the soldier. "I wouldn't have you deceived, when deceit won't make the matter any better for her. Let me tell you all now." 
                
               "You amaze me!" said the young man. 
               "Don't give up too much to that feeling, though. Hear my story through." 
               "Go on; for Heaven's sake, tell me all," urged the officer. 
               "She came to this country," continued Hugh, "from England. I brought her over. I took her from her parents, and they never knew what became of her. Perhaps they think she is dead. I cannot help that." 
               "Impossible!" exclaimed the lieutenant. 
               "Her father had promised long before, to make my own dear sister his wife. They had mutually pledged themselves in marriage, and we all thought he would marry her, as he had most solemnly promised. But he saw another, and from that day the heart of my poor sister was smitten. There was no more peace for her. He left her, and married the other. My poor sister pined, and at last died. She died of grief! 
               "When that blow came, I determined to visit this man's wrongs on his own head. He had a child-a daughter. I watched my opportunity.-It was yet a babe. I got it one day into my possession, and fled with it to America. I took up my abode, not long after, in the solitude of the wilderness; and there she has been with me since. She knows nothing of this. No one does now but yourself!" 
               "But what was the name of--" 
               Just at that point, the interrogatory of the amazed young officer was broken off by the approach of several men. They were a part of the picket that had been detached for the guard of the camp, and now came hurrying in, bringing with them a prisoner. 
               Hugh Warnock cast his eyes upon the advancing crowd, and exclaimed to the lieutenant, in a low tone:- 
               "It's Ralph Runnion! It's the Tory renegade." 
               And rising abruptly from their seat, they hurried after the armed force, into the camp. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE TRIAL-SENTENCE-AND EXECUTION. 
               THAT very evening, as soon as the shadows had begun to gather and crowd in the woods, men gathered in squads about one of the tents. 
               In it was the prisoner Ralph Runnion, before the officers of the camp. A guard was stationed before the door, and about the prisoner himself. 
               He was bound, hand and foot, and sat down upon a bench; made of a board, before his accusers. 
               Among those who composed the court, was Lieutenant Hooper. He sat and looked fixedly at the prisoner. The latter kept his eyes fixed upon the ground. 
               He was formally addressed by the presiding officer, who did not at that time know his name, and interrogated respecting his purpose in hovering about the camp. 
                
               To the question itself, he offered no reply. 
               The officer charged him, therefore, with being found as a spy, and asked him what he had to say in justification of his conduct. 
               Still he kept sullen silence. 
               Immediately the court held a consultation among themselves for a short time, the conversation being carried on in low whispers. All this time, the prisoner seemed plunged in a depth of gloom. He sought no object with his eyes, save only the ground. 
               At length the witnesses were called up, to substantiate the charge preferred against him. 
               The men who captured him, testified that he was taken while prowling about in the vicinity of the camp, and that when captured, he offered resistance. This was all that was known of him. 
               Thus far their proof, though decisive, was circumstantial. No one could take positive oath that he served in the capacity of a spy for the other army, although every circumstance certainly went to show that he was no less than a spy; and being thus taken, according to the laws of martial service, he would be condemned as such. 
               After the testimony of his captors was all in, and while a breathless silence reigned through the darkened apartment, Lieutenant Hooper called out in a clear voice- 
               "Let Hugh Warnock be called!" 
               "Hugh Warnock!" called the presiding officer, at the top of his voice. 
               Immediately the sturdy forester stepped forth in front of the court, and between that body and the prisoner, and calmly awaited the question that should first be put to him. 
               "Is this Hugh Warnock?" inquired the presiding officer. 
               "It is, sir," answered the honest soldier. 
               "Hugh Warnock," ordered the officer, "look upon the prisoner!" 
               He instantly turned round, and gazed into the face of the prisoner. 
               The prisoner himself looked up. Their eyes met! They flashed with bright and gleaming fires! 
               "Have you ever seen that man before?" asked Lieutenant Hooper, now becoming his questioner. 
               "I have, sir," was the prompt reply. 
               "Do you know him?" 
               "Well." 
               At this point, there was great excitement among the spectators who had been admitted to the scene. 
               "What is his name, then?" pursued his interrogator. 
               "Ralph Runnion." 
               "What sort of a person do you know him to be?" asked Lieutenant Hooper. 
               "A Tory and a renegade!" was his reply. 
               The excitement now grew almost uncontrollable. 
               "How do you know this?" continued the president of the court. 
               "I have lived in the woods not far from where his hut is," said Hugh, "this many and many a year. I have both seen him and heard of him." 
               "What do you know of him in particular?" 
               "That he stole my daughter from my cabin while I was gone; and I have never heard of him or her since!" he replied. 
                
               The spectators could have taken out the wretch at this moment, and hung him up from the nearest limb. But the authority of their superiors alone controlled them. 
               "It's a lie!" exclaimed the prisoner. 
               "Silence!" ordered the Court. 
               "Silence!" repeated one of the guard, as he brought him a slap across his mouth with the back of his brawny hand. 
               The wretch writhed with the pain. His rage, too, almost made him a maniac. He felt that he momentarily had the strength of a legion of men. 
               "Do you take your oath to what you say?" inquired the presiding officer, of Hugh. 
               "To every word, sir," he replied. 
               "And that he is a Tory, too?" 
               "I swear most solemnly to the fact." 
               "Enough," said the officer; and Hugh withdrew from his place. 
               "I wish to be examined," said Lieutenant Hooper. 
               The remark took all by surprise. 
               At once he rose from his seat, and stated substantially as follows:- 
               That in travelling through the woods late in the spring, while on a furlough, he lost his way, and was riding leisurely along, hoping to come soon in sight of a cabin, or settlement, when a rifle-ball cut into his shoulder, and his horse ran with him. That he had proof that Ralph Runnion, the prisoner, was guilty of firing at him, intending to murder him. That he had a companion, a negro, who helped him to kidnap Hugh Warnock's daughter from her cabin. That Hugh and himself had caught the negro, who confessed to them that this fellow forcibly abducted the girl, and fired at him, too. And that while they were engaged in making a search of the villain's hut, he came round himself where they had left the negro confined, and released him, while both made their escape together. 
               The court and audience on hearing this testimony, in connection with what they already themselves knew, were wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement. It even bordered on frenzy. The spectators would have been glad to have taken the disposition of the prisoner into their own hands. 
               The officers conferred together a few minutes in low whispers, and then there was silence. Not a word was spoken. One could hear the very breathing of those crowded together there. 
               At length the presiding officer glanced sternly at the prisoner, and addressed him:- 
               "Ralph Runnion-" 
               With the strange sound of the syllables, the doomed man looked up at the face of the speaker. 
               "You have been brought into camp a spy. Without the shadow of a doubt, that was your last occupation. You are before us, proved a Tory, and a renegade-an outlaw, whose hand is raised against every man. 
               "As a spy, caught in your iniquity, you stand before us. You are found guilty. Your condemnation alone awaits you. What have you to answer against it?" 
               "I am no spy!" he violently replied. "I am not guilty! Not guilty!" 
                
               The sound of his voice betrayed deep agony. 
               "Without doubt," continued the officer, "you would, if not caught, have betrayed us all into the hands of the Indians. We have been providentially saved from that doom. Listen now to your sentence, which I proceed to pronounce upon you:- 
               "It is that you be placed under guard through the night; and in the morning, at the hour of sunrise, be taken out of your confinement, and hanged by the neck until you are dead! Look to Heaven for mercy!" 
               The prisoner fetched a deep groan. It came from the very depths of his heart, and was full of bitterness and agony. 
               At once he was bound still more securely, and placed under guard for the night. Two men stood over him, and a sufficient guard was stationed about the tent. 
               To him the night wore away but slowly. Its hours were as if the weights of doom were attached to them. He stretched himself out upon the ground, and passed the time in serious contemplation of his past life. 
               There was no companion near him, to whom he could go with his present troubles. There was no one near, to whom he could call for assistance. There was no help for him. His doom was gathering too swiftly and surely over his head. 
               He thought not of prayer, he, the renegade-the Tory. What solace could it have brought him? How could his blasphemous lips fashion themselves to utter syllables of supplication? How could his heart break itself from its flintiness, and become as soft and tender as a child's?-How could his thoughts shake off their drapery of cruelty, inhumanity and blood-thirstiness, and mould themselves into forms of meekness and humility? 
               The still night-watches to him were exceedingly terrible. Each sound about him was but the precursor of death. Each pulsation of his heart, the beating of the death-alarm. Each fluttering of his pulse, the passage of the moment that slipped away between him and his end. 
               What racking, terrible feelings were his! What inexpressible tumults tossed his breast! What immediate hopes just brightened over his view, and then went out in utter darkness! 
               The night at length wore away. Morning dawned, slow and silent.-The air began to smell damp and fresh again. The heat had gone, and invigorating breezes drew gently through the forest. 
               There was an early stir in the little camp. The sound of axe and hammer was to be heard near at hand, and the doomed man listened with an increasing fear. His limbs trembled beyond his self-control. 
               At length the roll of the drum echoed through the place. The woods around seemed peopled with martial echoes. 
               A file of men marched to the tent where the prisoner was confined, and halted before the entrance. At length the doomed man came staggering slowly forth. As soon as he reached the open air, he instinctively cast his eyes up to Heaven. He could just catch faint glimpses of it through the trees. His mortal sight could not have been more benighted, than his soul. 
               Forming a guard around him, the soldiers marched on in the form of a hollow square towards the place where the last scene was to be witnessed. 
                
               They approached the gallows. The prisoner cast his eyes up at it, and a shudder ran through his frame. It was of rude construction, consisting only of two uprights, with a heavy beam placed across them. A ladder, recently constructed, conducted to the height to which he was required to mount. 
               The scene was a striking one. The sun had just risen over the forest. There was a freshness in the air, and a new glory in the sunshine, that made men in love with life. The leaves were yet moist, and dripping with the night-dews, and the grass-blades and wild-flowers glistened as if they were inlaid with diamonds. 
               Cool breaths drew slowly in between the trees, bathing their brows, and giving their spirits new vigor. The gray of early dawn had all faded away; and the sombre night-shades of the forest were all driven back into their hidden haunts. The risen sun bathed everything in a new effulgence. The tree-tops seemed burnished with gold. The birds rang out their glad melodies, unconscious of the scene that was so soon to be enacted. 
               Still the drums kept up their steady rolling, and the echoes kept steadily widening and vanishing, like circles in the clear water. The tramp of feet sounded dull and heavy, and their noise was as solemn as at a funeral. 
               There was an armed body of soldiers around the place of execution, who opened a passage for the coming of their prisoner and his guard.-They passed through, and the victim stood bound at the foot of the gallows. 
               He looked pitifully up; but his eyes fell instantly back to the ground. 
               There was a heart, even in that ruthless renegade! He had just felt its real existence! 
               An officer stood near him, and bade him mount. A couple of soldiers assisted him to a high round on the ladder, and there adjusted the rope about his neck. He looked around upon the throng with an expressionless gaze, and his eyes went up through the masses of gilded leaves to heaven. 
               The men descended from the ladder, and left him standing there alone. They stationed themselves on either side of it at the bottom. 
               "If you have any thing to say, Ralph Runnion," commanded an officer, in a clear voice, "you have now an opportunity. Improve your time. Your life has drawn to a close." 
               The Tory made no reply. He appeared sullen and speechless. 
               Then silence continued for some time. 
               At length the officer ordered the executioners to do their duty. 
               Forthwith they drew out the ladder upon which he stood, from beneath his feet, and the condemned spy fell with a sudden and powerful jerk towards the ground. 
               A few spasmodic motions of his limbs, and all was over. 
               The soldiers turned away from the spot when it was known that he was dead, and hastened to make ready for their day's march. 
               In another hour, the place was as silent as the grave itself. The camp had broken up. The body of the renegade had been left hanging behind them, there to swing and dangle in the silent forest, a terrible warning to his wandering comrades in crime, and a final prey for the ravenous birds of the air. 
               The outlaw's doom had thus closed upon him! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE ATTACK AND REPULSE-STRANGE MEETINGS-EXPLANATIONS-CONCLUSION. 
               THE armed body of soldiers had just encamped again near one of the new villages, or settlements, on the south side of the Mohawk. 
               They proceeded cautiously in this part of their march, never knowing but their proximity might happen to be of the greatest assistance to the settlers. 
               The sun went down in unequalled splendor on the night of their encampment, and all the forest seemed lit up with new glories. The scene was lovely in the extreme. Not a breath of air stirred the thickly-growing leaves, or tossed the thin smoke-clouds of their fires from the spiral forms in which they curled. The very sounds that rung in the busy camp, seemed lost in soft and distant echoes in the forest. 
               The soldiers appeared jaded with their last day's march, and felt rejoiced that they had at last come in sight of a settlement. It gave new vigor to their spirits, and helped them to bear up under their hardships with equanimity. 
               The officers were consulting together in one of the tents. It was a few hours into the night, and the camp was still. The soldiers all slept, save the vigilant patrol, and the distant pickets. 
               While they were thus engaged in consultation, in reference to the plans of the next day-whether to remain where they were, or to go on-the pickets brought in a man with them. He asked to see the commander. 
               That officer addressed him. 
               "I have come in the greatest haste to inform you," said the new comer, "that a runner, who was sent out by us as a spy, has just come into the village and reported the advance of a party of Tories and Indians. From what he could reliably gather, he is confident that they will soon be upon us." 
               Instantly all his hearers sprang excitedly to their feet. 
               "It is the intention to attack the settlement at early dawn," added he. "Unless we can get your help, there will be a general massacre. We have no means to defend ourselves, and that this party well knows. They know nothing of your presence here. It is fortunate!" 
               They held a close consultation with their unexpected visitor respecting the matter, which was continued for some time. At length all separated in silence to different parts of the camp, to give orders for awakening the men as silently as possible. 
               In less than three hours thereafter, the encampment was all broken up, and the soldiers were silently marching into the little settlement. Even the sound of their steady footfalls could not be heard. No moving forms, either, were visible in the darkness of the night. 
               They reached the village, and were at once posted in several detachments about the locality. All were carefully secreted, however. Some hid themselves behind the rude houses of the settlers; and some quartered behind the stacks of hay and fodder, and some made barricades of sheds, old carts, and wagons. In all, they formed a masked battery, and needed but the approach of the enemy, to display their power of execution. 
               They watched thus through the night. The sleeping inhabitants of the hamlet had not been awakened, as their alarm would only have served to destroy the sure effectiveness of the defence. They were accordingly suffered to enjoy their slumbers undisturbed, thoughtless of the terrible danger that threatened them. 
               The hours were long and leaden. No moon sailed in the sky, and but few stars were visible. There was no where in the settlement to be heard the sound of a voice, and the feet of those who passed cautiously to and fro between the detachments, were as if shod with felt. 
               The several officers held constant consultations with each other, crouching here and there in the darkness, seeming to shun the dancing figures of the strange shadows, and hastening to and from their several stations of defence. It was a busy and anxious night for them. 
               The morning drew slowly on. The gray shadows began to dance and fade, and then vanished entirely in the distance. The streaks of day, at first dim and lustreless, flashed up over the eastern horizon, and shed a dull and deadened radiance over the little settlement. One by one, the few straggling stars grew dim and went out, and the eye lost the small point in the space they had illumined. 
               The birds were awake in the adjacent trees, but the inhabitants of the hamlet still slept. The melody that rose and fell upon the air, could be compared to nothing so full of heavenly joy as itself. Day was at hand, and these earliest precursors of it were faithful at their watch. 
               So were the soldiers likewise. 
               The form of a solitary Indian was at length descried, walking and skulking in the dim distance. He stopped a moment, and with his uplifted finger numbered the dwellings. Then he suddenly started off again into the dancing gray shadows, and disappeared as mysteriously as he came. 
               The eyes of the soldiers were upon him. Now they knew that the warning they had received in the night, had come in season. 
               At once the order was silently issued to every man, to make ready for immediate action. The excitement was strong and deep on all sides.-Muskets received all the shot they would safely carry; cartridge-boxes were carefully examined, and replenished, and burdensome clothing laid aside, to give more room for the terrible service that was at hand. 
               They lay down behind their entrenchments, like so many men already dead. There was not a sound through the entire ranks. Not a shout.-Not a halloo. Not a motion of their bodies. Nothing that would excite the least alarm. 
               The hamlet was still wrapped in deep slumbers. The defenceless females, children, and infants dreamed of no harm being near. They thought only of an endeared past, a secure present, and a serene future. Their dreams were tinged with just such colors as tinted the rosy cloud-bank, at the hour of the last sunset. The silence seemed full of foreboding. 
               For a long time after the Indian had been seen, did the men lie in quiet, calmly awaiting their time of onset. They were altogether in the disposition of their few officers. Lieutenant Hooper had command of one detachment, and Hugh Warnock happened to have been alloted to serve under him. They were now but a few paces from each other. 
               Suddenly a wild and terrible yell rose on the still air, and broke on their ears-rising, and swelling, and deafening with its sharp echoes-and the heart of every man jumped into his throat. 
               "Not yet," was the order from every officer to the squad under him. 
               The sounds were redoubled in their intense fury. They rose to the very sky. They shook the very air with their horrid vibration. Their din peopled the solitude with unearthly echoes. Had all the devils and fiends of Pandemonium been suddenly let loose, and joined in one loud, long, increasing, uncontrollable scream and shriek, not half the terror could. seemingly, have been excited by them. The yells rang in the ears of the impatient soldiers like the sounds of final doom. They froze the warm blood in its current. 
               At once the sleeping inhabitants sprang in a state of indescribable alarm from their beds, and ran hither and thither, they knew not where. To spring out of doors, would have been to offer themselves willing victims to the tomahawk and relentless scalping-knife. To stay where they were, was a death quite as certain. And distracted thus between these two fearful modes of meeting death, they trembled and feared in the deepest distress. 
               Every sleeper was aroused by those frightful yells. Their slumbers were unlocked as if by magic. Their eyes were suddenly opened wide to the terrible doom they knew threatened them then. An insane frenzy seized hold upon every one. None knew what to do, nor which way to turn. All thought of their impending death-struggles, and of their friends. 
               Immediately with the cry, and while yet under the full excitement of it, the allied Tories and Indians rushed simultaneously upon the settlement, vowing instant and total destruction of its inhabitants. It was their intention to make no distinction among them, but all were to share alike the same fate-men, women, and children. 
               The officers in ambush gave the word! 
               Then rose a more terrible cry, as of devils let loose. They vied with the enemy in the fearful tumult. Springing like concealed tigers from their coverts, they poured themselves in a furious and uncontrollable torrent upon the foe. The yells were louder, and fiercer, and more hideous. The whoops thrilled the frightened inhabitants of the hamlet, who thought that all were enemies. 
               On came the infuriated Tories and Indians, reckless of their own lives, and bent only on bloody spoils. Still they kept up their terrific war-cry. Still the fierce yells pierced the very air, and reached the empyrean. Still they flung high their arms above them, brandishing their weapons, and shouting at the top of their voices. It seemed as if it must be the crack of doom. 
               The party of American soldiers met them in the midst of the onset.-Rushing along with shouts much louder and fiercer, they poured upon them like a storm of hail. They hurled themselves against them, like a stream of living fire. 
               Right and left, now, the musketry was heard. The sharp crack of numerous rifles was audible over all. The clashing of weapons, the ringing of steel, the clatter of swords, the quick rattle of long bayonets, the ringing of knives against heavy tomahawks, the infuriated yells of both parties of combatants, the shrieks of women and children-these, and the like of these, made up the fearful din of that hour. 
               Little expecting an armed force in concealment for them, the enemy were utterly confounded at their sudden approach. Their shouts struck terror to their coward hearts. At first, they involuntarily recoiled, not knowing what was in store for them. But the demon spirit soon rallied and rose again, and they drove onward against the soldiers like a furious storm. 
               They met exactly in the street of the little settlement. The combat was there. Friends and foes soon became strangely mingled together. 
               Hand to hand-foot to foot-face to face, they soon began to fight.-After the first load had been discharged from their muskets and rifles, they had no time to load again. It now became a personal warfare. In many cases, individual strength alone gained a victory. 
               All this time, the ferocious, fiend-like yells of the revengeful Indians were not intermitted. And the loud and lusty shouts of the Americans were likewise kept up. The din was frightful. 
               Indians grappled with white men, and glared ferociously in their faces. Brawny arms were wound muscularly about stout forms, and both fell heavily to the earth together. Tomahawks were swung and brandished aloft, and driven with a sickening crash into uncovered skulls and bared temples. Musket-breeches were laid vigorously upon human heads, breaking, and maiming, and killing, in their terrible course. 
               The knife-blades faintly glittered in the light of the early morning, and then buried themselves remorselessly in throbbing hearts, or defenceless throats. The red, warm, reeking blood flowed freely everywhere. The ground was wet with it. The figures of the combatants were stained frightfully with its horrible color. 
               The contest soon became more of an individual, than a general one. Each man singled out his enemy and laid fiercely about him till he or his enemy had bit the dust. Many threw away their muskets altogether, and went madly into the fight with only their knives, or even only their fists. A terrible determination seized either party; and it would soon resolve itself into a dearly-bought victory, or a hard-wrung defeat. 
               Lieutenant Hooper fought valiantly, near his little corps of men, setting them the bravest of all examples. At length he grappled with a strong man-a Tory-apparently much his physical superior. Neither had weapons, save only the knives they carried in their hands. 
                
               It promised to be a fearful struggle. The indomitable courage of the young man was more than a match for his opponent's greater strength of limb. 
               They passed many thrusts to and fro, with indescribable rapidity. Already blood followed the gashes that had been made, but the sight of it only seemed to incite each to more fearful desperation. 
               His enemy was James Grandison. 
               "Die, vile Tory!" shouted the young officer, making still another thrust at him, which he was not able to parry. "Die! and let the earth drink your black heart's blood!" and he thrust at him again and again with his blade. 
               But he did not happen to reach his person either time. He grew maddened, and made ready for one greater and more decisive effort. 
               They were standing face to face. Their eyes glared into each other's, like coals of living fire. They grappled strongly and fiercely, as in the last encounter. 
               Lieutenant Hooper drew back one hand, and then drove the blade home upon his enemy. Just at that unfortunate instant, a wild-looking being flung himself, with a fearful cry, between the combatants, receiving the long blade intended for Grandison. 
               
                  It was Wild Medicine-or Miles Morton, the poor mechanic, and early tenant of Grandison! 
               Both recoiled at his unforeseen approach. Grandison glanced as quickly as thought, to see who it was that thus sprang between him and his enemy. And seeing who the intruder was, he sought to drive his knife into his heart. Raising his arm, he was about to strike. 
               "Hold! hold! for the love of Heaven!" cried Wild Medicine. 
               "You shall be out of my way forever!" yelled the maddened trader. 
               "Madman!" shouted Wild medicine, at the top of his voice; "you slay your own son. This officer is your own child!" 
               Grandison's arm fell powerless by his side. He had no strength to strike a blow. 
               Isn't this William Hooper!" asked Wild Medicine, of the young man. 
               Grandison eyed him as if in a trance. 
               "Yes-yes!" shouted the young officer. 
               "Behold your own father!" cried Wild Medicine, rolling up his eyes with an expression of agony. 
               Both men gazed fearfully and bewilderingly at each other for a moment. 
               "Do you tell me the sacred truth?" said James Grandison, in an agony of suspense. 
               "Only the truth!" replied he. "Before God, only the truth. Behold your son!" 
               Immediately father and son looked with a deep gaze into each other's eyes, and with opened arms rushed together in an affectionate embrace. How different from the embraces of the combatants at that moment around them? 
               After the first joy was over, and parent and child for the first time in life knew each other, they turned their attention to Wild Medicine. 
                
               He lay upon the ground bleeding profusely, and gasping for breath. Lieutenant Hooper had given him his death-wound. 
               As they stooped down to him, they heard him, say in distinct, though low tones- 
               "James Grandison! I told you in the forest, long ago, that your time was not then come. I did not kill you when I might easily have done it. I told you that you would live to know more. You know it all now! Yes-yes; it is all plain to you now!
                
               "This is your long lost son! Embrace him again. It makes my poor stricken heart glad to see this true affection! I had a child once myself. James Grandison, you remember! 
               "But I am fast going. My life is ebbing away. These yells are my terrible death-song. God give you joy of your son. I have restored him to you, even as I shall soon be restored to mine. My forgiveness-I am going!-" 
               The strange being's soul with these last words passed away. 
               It was a fitting time-in the din of that fearful contest, when the shrill whoops of the Indian rang through the air, at the early hour of dawn, in the cool gray shadow-for so wild and weird a soul to pass away. In the tumult of battle he should have died, even as he had lived so long in waging fierce contests with his passions. 
               Let us hope that his golden-haired boy met him on the threshold of the other world, and twined about his soul, with his dearest and gentlest affections. 
               Hugh Warnock was fighting valorously before one of the houses of the settlement. Many fellow-soldiers were about him, and a pile of corses were strewn around them all. It was evident that bloody work had been done there on both sides. 
               At last the enemy gave way. The Indians and Tories that survived the slaughter fled with precipitation to the woods, many of the soldiers hotly pursuing them. Hugh Warnock was wounded, and, after the battle was decided, some of his comrades carried him into the nearest dwelling. They laid him carefully on a couch of hasty construction, and bathed his temples and wrists with cool water. 
               A maiden flitted past him, evidently an alarmed inmate of the house. She dared not look at him, so great was her fear. 
               "Back, back!" he said to those who stood around him, motioning them away with his waving hand. 
               They obeyed his command. 
               "Jeanette!" he called, just raising his head. 
               The girl paused in her walk, and looked round to see whence the voice proceeded. 
               "Jeanette! Jeanette!" again called he, his voice trembling with emotion. 
               The maiden turned-looked towards the bed, her eyes full, of anxiety, glanced at the countenance of the prostrate man, and rushed franticly to his bed-side, burying her head in his bosom. 
               Poor forest maiden! she imagined she had found her father again. 
               The reader will see at once into whose house the wounded man had been brought. 
                
               The meeting between Hugh and Jeanette was affecting beyond description. The hot tears fell thick and fast from beneath her lids, and pattered on the overjoyed man's face, and then the draggling tresses of her beautiful hair wiped them away again. 
               When the confusion had somewhat abated around them, another person approached the bedside, greatly astonished to behold Jeanette in such a plight, and asking those who stood around what was the matter. Taking hold gently of the maiden's arm, he raised her head slowly from its recumbent posture, and his eyes fell at once upon the face of the wounded soldier. 
               He started back in affright and agitation. 
               "Mr. Wilson!" exclaimed Hugh Warnock, in a faint voice, when he caught a sight of the new comer, "you have come at the good time. God be praised. Behold your daughter-your long lost daughter!" 
               We will make no attempt to describe the spontaneous gush and overflow of affection that followed this unexpected explanation of the forester. First came wild and startling astonishment; then succeeded a flood of new and strange feelings, as if their hearts would go out with their breath; and then followed joy, and tears, and embraces, and congratulations. 
               Mr. Wilson was the same of whom Hugh had before spoken to Lieutenant Hooper. The same explanation was made to Jeanette that had been made to him, and her heart grew satisfied. She had learned to love Mr. Wilson as a father, long before she knew he really was such to her. 
               He had tried his fortunes in the western world, and settled at first in New York. Growing restless, however, he determined to move off into the settlements; and it was here that he was thus providentially restored again to his beloved child, whom he long ago believed dead. 
               While this scene was passing, quiet was restored without. The din of battle had ceased. There was heard no longer the shout of combatants, or the fierce rattle of arms. The door opened again, and Lieutenant Hooper and his father, James Grandison, entered. 
               The former caught sight of Jeanette, and folded her to his arms. The lovers were one again. 
               It was a strange scene for Mr. Wilson to behold, but after Hugh Warnock had explained all, he received his son (that was to be) and defender with open arms. He thought so brave a man had well deserved the hand of so fair a maiden as Jeanette. 
               The Rev. Mr. Mason and his wife chanced to stay at the house of Mr. Wilson that night, and the host and father immediately sent for him to come into the room. The young officer stood beside Jeanette, and Mary acted in the capacity of bridesmaid. Hugh Warnock joined the hands of the young couple, and the clergyman proceeded in few words to unite them in marriage. 
               The young husband remained long in that vicinity to defend the region from the ravages of the Indians and British, and at length settled calmly and happily down into the enjoyment of married life. Hugh Warnock was his truest friend. Mr. Grandison bought him a place in the vicinity, and thus were all united in harmony and happiness again. Mary not long after accepted the hand of a worthy man in matrimony, and two more devoted friends than she and Jeanette were not to be seen the whole country round. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            LONG'S COMPLETE EDITION, from the advance Sheets. 
            COMPLETE. 
            THE SOLDIER'S WIFE, 
            OR SCENES IN CANTEEN AND ON THE BATTLE-FIELD 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, AUTHOR OF "KENNETH," "COURT OF LONDON," "MARY PRICE," &c. 
            A glorious writer is G. W. M. Reynolds, and here we have one of the latest and best of his works. In the Soldier's Wife" he has given free scope to his rich and lively imagination, describing the camp, the barracks, and battle-field, and woman's singular position when found there, with a graphic fidelity that brings the scenes act before the mind's eye of the reader. The tale abounds with the olla podrida of wit, humor, and pathos, for which all the works of Reynolds are remarkable.-Critic.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 121 NASSAU STREET. 
             
               LIST OF REYNOLDS' GREAT ROMANCES. 
               Mysteries of the Court of London. 2 vols., paper. Price 50 ets. per vol. 
               Rose Foster. In 3 vols. 
                
               Mary Price, or THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT MAID. 2 vols. Price 50c. pr. vol. 
               Hustace Quentin, sequel and 
                
               Lord Suxondale; or,  THE LONDON ARISTOCRACY. 
                
             
          
       
   
