
    ----CITATION----
        Carboy, John. Between the Crusts, or, "Ticket 1939" .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6629
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Between the crusts, or, "Ticket 1939" 
            
               BETWEEN THE CRUSTS;
o"1
"TJC~IET1939."
BY

P4.

OAR130Y

ILLUSTRATED.
hEW YORK:
OLM     SMALL 113 FULTON STREET.
1875,

JOHN

vf

I


~:EW~EN TIL  CRUiSTS.

XRruaD according to Act of Congress. in the year 1873, by
COLLIN &amp; SMALL,
In the office of the L~bniwian of Congress at Wsbington.

LI

An escaped h In'6id hd*Hldx1Oshrieking
wkithi his retich and -hurling it away"lxi the
*  iftir-ofi fib ty7 4 iiMak&amp;h, eight'
ten hundred and fifty-eighL' ,
Thr~dwgh biheide,'ehibs 1fill ' tt ar-
*6*r th~bb*glirs&amp; fbbi  etf31,tbe*1t6di like
*61 f    inftg(it *11dd  asFeIh UN mMd
bj lftyj~l h -i   ~dhtuxlt th
WisAruIts ~f 'the 4Eehy;hUt~deeiilitia b
the tAeirs aixdaley% -"*viejpo~krtyt.
4ohihg'titih;i-*4or  the houie~tpe t46d
;whistinguenu' obd    the chliaMt
i-,itstdel'' daic4 upoh the edegraph
WinopSjMOfieroely, Vwilxriig thotaignso opof
thifir milto-hui~es Ai dUleuloe~topai.
to fit, iot i -ike) q'd &amp;unkeko* uliiaa arlu
tlie! dorzerbrkiig things..4this adMdroh,
w71      A      ~       [W      l
Like an escaped lunhtivi lhowling iand
obdiekidOr along thebighy6j'gtiihg
i4ayluifehoinuob  eah ntI '  IW4

Like a ship without Airtidder, - 9' fish with.
"Out a44111 , a lst boy sobbia'giaidi ryinigo std
-all going !hither ,and thither, not 1 mate
whereI
"tGood LUrd1 how 'The Vind bIoWat....
blows, lik* a: whale!'I  Thus 1'miait&amp;Ily ex.
claimn&amp;d Mr,. Clutohit ashet climbed the Ia
*t~p~vleadine upito-the door  of hisnot par.
'ti&amp;bUIlrY'paIatfal*Ab4idifarthiuestreet.
,k$ Ctftillike alkelfe. ugh. '-Woede* *hAt
windth 4ft~etttd fort Why AontU'st i*.
Wh~fte We useful-&amp;-oo the vateirtosAnileihips
and things. UghP 10,',  *-U,:-"1',  c
") WOhitethtopei~ed the'dwerani entered
---±Lhe flnd'ea ildl gaktoioind.- togihr4t4hs
vnd4 btiffg~thodoor baok aid  uig 4#i
the stairway.,'j1,)
" ,bcithbI641iadiAis.' tLucky it didn'*
hiowi~yhehi of. Oasig ~poor devil
like me through the streets.stift owed-tb
something-blast i.'   odr1 h        a
dioiit;ti ad, .'  ise for' dine. 'Lt
night~ it wjs boiled bonee"
Mr. Clutchit shivesliilygraspodthe knob
6f theilode l1"vkfgo tbp rear room, of the
Itrier0nOhitititiprfrate lfe,.but Madanre
Iaitlrioilfi1diw~adrid, Sp~ia ;1'$e#.
dntlivYDatghbr fofL'h,6 '8e'tefxth 8,on 'of Ithe
Setth' Co6unt or Bajados 'bord i 'ith; a
caul," as her ad4'ertisement infdrnieddthe
lpiblict, W      shi~e  htad, ife dch~ige
enough to pay for its ins~tun6
-Alc lThe &amp;ott h~notvne&amp;Aktologietia
the World.!"
Anh   Sdee       ih~tli'St~.
titudo the death of the Ks't~'~~


4

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

and the birth of a son to Brigham Young
before all the crowned heads of Europe."
Mr. Clutchit opened the door, entered
and closed it softly.
Much descriptive genius need not be
wasted in reproducing the picture of the-
premises immediately Loccupied  by the
Clutchits.
The "Hall of Reception " was a square
front room on the first floor of a tenement-
house. At night, by the sudden turning up
of a bed-ounge, it became the sleeping-
chamber of the illustrious pair. The, rear'
room, into which Mr. Clutchit had just es-
caped from the wind, was at once their
private parlor, kitchen, and dining-room.
. The Clutchits always dined at thefashion-
able hour of six, as became people of their
aristocratic lineage and pampered appetites.
The table was spread for the banquet, the
cloth being a copy of an old police Gaete,
Mr. Clutchit's tacked plate being placed
precisely over a cut representing the arrest
of some notorious swindler.
Madame Gringo, se Olutchit, was seated
awaiting his arrival. She was leisurely nib-
bling at a roll and sipping tea from a tin
cup.                       -  -  -1
The honored husband of the, world-re-
nowned Madame threw his hat in a corner
and dropped Iiito his chair, prepared to
anist her in the demolit on ofa tough beef-
steak and rolls.DI
"Windy out, Dick I"
"Ug I no name for it. It's a searcher.
It went through me like a pickpocket
through a horse-car."
"Dick, I say, people's getting' tired ol
knowing what's to happen, and they donl
care a fig about what has happened. Nol
even a bite yesterday. It's shameful how
little people care for their future. Only ont
customer the day before, and not over
dozen in the whole month. Now, what's t
be done?11"-
'.'Consult the stars-sign of Taurus ram
pant,," said Olutchit.
"Hang the stars! What dodge shall w
go into to make ourselves safe 1" 1
" Gs into the Tombs as impostop% if w
41009ook out,"

" Clutchit, shut up."
" Yes it'll be shut up both the Clutch*
its. Mrs. C., I have it. Our old game.
You've got the half-finished daub of a paint'
ing that poor devil of an artist left in his
room upstairs the nigtr #e went out on
the roof ad' hung hialselt by the clothes-
line?"
"Yes, and his whole kit of brushes and
colors, easel and all, But they ain't worth
sixpence. I don't wonder he hung himself."
I do; but never mind.-Ae didn't know
how to make them profitable; I do. There's
where the true genis'shows itself."Now
then, these rolls are ferfully stale, and so's
the butter. The strength of that butter is
sufficient to run a saw-milL"    ,
u Well, well, Clutchit, about the painter's
traps?",11
aI'll set up for a poor artist struggling
with poverty-genius triumphant--defyig
death-living on nothing--wife and children
in the very last stages of diabolical destitu-
tion., I'll wite a letter to---to--'.well to
some rich old chap)t
"Much.he'l give you. Nonsense I"
" I don't.expect anything from. him. His
aoft spot willibe vanity. .He'll read it, but-
ton up 14s pockets, talk about the ;impu-
dence of the thing; then he'll say tp hiqm-
self, 'here's a chance to get a rep4ation
cheap. I'll send this vagabond's letter to
the papers, with a note asking the editor to
publish it, stating that donations in aid #,
this gifted but unfortunate artist wjll, be
gladly received by me, etc.'  Then the
papers will publish it, and the editor, in or.
f der to curry favor with the rich old-fraud,
t will add a few paragraphs ip praise.orthat
eminent . philanthropist, Mr. Somebody,
whose charities, and, boundless benevolencef
e have endeared him, etc., etc. D'ye. seeI
a Then the contributions -will roll in. The
D old chap will come with the dollars, find me
upstairs in full rig, see you lying in one cor-
iner looking as if a crust of bread.would be
a luxurious banquet, I painting away lost in
e  the worship df art."
"Olutohit you are a brick after alL
e We'll try that game.: You write the letter
and I'll fix the room up stairs. Two old

BETWEEN      THE CRUSTS.                            5
aIsa    rewh    bpard.on  1o a   le, roll   She cast off the Clutchit and as.
and--   Isumed the Gringo.
She was interrupted by a ring at the door-  "Zei stars tell me zat you come to day,"
bell.                                    syid Madame, Gringo. -' What is ze fair
" A customer," said Olutlhit, airil.   ladee, Malame Semit, want wiz the priestess
"Creditor more ilke-thats the dodge.he of xe stars I
butcher got in, by                 ethe  of te stars?
b  Otibyla-t Satu.The Gringo Anglo-French was entirely her
''ao, io creditor."                    own invention, which she had not as ,yet
Grecer's wife?"                       patented.
"Stuff; no, ot even a landlord would face  "You know my name?"
this wind. No, its scustoiner I think.. I'll  "Zee name, mon Doo, me art tell me sat,
confront the enemy. Charge him sxtra .n    The lady threw aside her thick wrappings
account of theinclemency of the weather," and veil, disclosing a sharp visage, with thin
said  lutchit, and hastiiremoyiqg the lips and a pair of keen restless eyes.
cruhibsof buttered roll, from, his lips with  There was an expression upon her features
the corner of the table paper, he started for like that of ai boarding-house, keeper lying
the door.                               in wait watching for the appearance of a
"Can I see Madame Gringo?"             delinquent boarder with no baggage.
The speaker wasa lady veiled and clad in  "Singe you know my nawe, let us to bust-
bfack silk.                              ness."
"Madame Isadore Gringo will be disen-    "Ze business is anozzer consultation 1"
gaged in, a few moments," said, Clutchit,  "Partly yes-spartly no."
with an air of mystery. "She js at present  At this, moment the spund of a tremen-
being consulted upon an affair of immense dpus crash resounded, through the room.--a
importance by Senator,----. I be pardon  crash of dishes and thp thump of falling
I had almost betrayed his name. Madame table.
Gringo does not allow the names of any of  14"That abominable Clutchit's knocked over
her visitors to be repeated. I pray you-step  the table," half shrieked Madame Gringo, in
into the reception hal,-this way, madam.n  her purest Eglish, then suddenly remem-
Clutchit bowed jier into the apartment bering her position, she added, "Zat is,,you
with an air of profound respect,         see, I spek AAnglaise 4s goot as my own
I will announce you to Madame Is'dore tongue. Ze Olooshet, zat is my cat,in ze-.
Gringo.  Although by her wonderful gift my boudoir -pardon a moment,
she doubtless knew hours ago that you were  She opened the door leading to the hail.

to visit her."
Then turning upon his heel, and privatply
thrusting his tongue into his cheek and
winking to himself, he disappeared.
"Who is it" '
Clutchit. described h reappearance M!_
nutelye                        a
Ear-drops, small crosses, pearl,, set in
rims.of dead gold with pendants below.-.
ah, she was here once before. You traced
her, you remember, to her house in Twetty-
third, street " . ,
Xrq. Clutchit hastilyfdonned a long flow-
nag.o~e qOvered with hieroglyphic figures,
and Z4diacal signs, and then presented her.-
self to the visitor., During her absence
Olutchit devoted himself to beefsteak and

CHAPTER II.
GEonGE B'ArFRAT BRBAKS THRO[gGH TUB
CRUST AND GETS BEFORE THE WIND.
AIL day long since the wild wind and the
early morning had come upon the city'to,
gether-fit companions they were,, too-had
George Jaffray faced that wind and worn.
away, the lieurs, wandering .vagabond like
from one street to another In vain effort to
gain by the chenes of labor or top pitiful
mercy of his fellow man a few cents, if no
usoreto driverstarnation from-his home.
Romet    The street vagabond calls his
favorite ash barrel in which he lodges his

7

,;


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

BETWEEN 'THE CRUSTS.

I
i.

botme. If a damp miserable cellar in Pell
street, with its, rough- unpliasterd walls
through which the moistute oozed, with Ift
smoke' begkinmed beams, and'its broken
boards which lay loosely upon tht bare
ground in mocking- pretense fort -a floor,
could by any stretch of the imagination be
called a home even for a dog, then it was a
hoes for George Jaffray.
And for two months, the worst and storm-
lest in the year, ever since'they had reached
this the lowest step of their degradation,
ad George Jaffray and his wife found
refuge in this den.
Day after day had he tramped the streets
hungry and xaggad, each day growing more
hopeless anid desperate, each dAy approach-
lag-nearer the tnevitkblebitter end.
Anotaet dafIi% trap eided, bringing him
'ack to his dismal refuge with oaly the
mmory of denial and disappointment-
'h-e mad wind seemed, as it raved and
rhistled past, to mock him in'his despair
-hen for the moment he paused in friont-of
the building, beneath which awaited his
coming the only being in all the wide *ast
city who had clung to him.
"God help me," he muttered as he de-
scended the worn wooden teps leading from
the patenxent down to -the tiineiwracked
door of the cellar. "1Whylshoild I suffer all
this misery IBette die' by tihe haigman's
hand than by this slow terrible, torture of
starvation I"
He pushed open, the door, entered and
closed it. For a second or two he stood
motionless in the darkness.
" Mary 1"0 he called.
No answer came. No sound broke that of
the awful stillness save that of his own
heavy breathing.
"Poor soul, she's asleep. The light has
burned out-burned out as my life willone'
day burn out and be lost in the darkness 'of
death."
He took a. match from, his pocket, and
groped his way to the farther wall.
"Mary I" he called again.
No answer.
a I'll have -a light," he muttered, and
struck the match upon his coat sleeve, and

as the light fdashed up, it reyeale4 theob.
ed of;h'is deirch-a bottle with th  fra .
meant of a candle in its neck and staning
upon the ileadbf a barre. '
"My palace. this, and this my oanIela-
bra; now for m7 queen?"
His halid, thin, roughliike the hand of a
skeleton, with the skin aried aind corrugated
over it, trembled with the coid as he apied
the match to the wick.
"S o  Ican see Iny misery a little plainer.
Ax If it were not plain enough already."
He lifted ,the battle from the barrel, and
turned toward 'what seemed a heap of'rags
in the col-ner fariherest from the door."
"UghI!' it's colder than a landlord's
heart I Ho  that *ind whistles'througy
the old door!
Nearer the heap of rags, the boards of the
floor - creaking 'as he advanced. " Such. a
bed as this for the daughter of a henker I
Mary!"
No sound but that of -his own' voice, ah
that of' the wind.
Over the heap of rags, the pallet upon
which his *ife lay, he stood, then knelt by
hei side, placing the light near him upon
the floor.
"dMary, it is I-George I"
One glance, and the haggard,' famine-
erampediface of the man paled, and his ejes
glared as if a inortal agony had con'vulsed
him.
"Dead- dead-dead I" he almost shridked
as he started back from the horrible reality
before him.t
Yes, dead. Dead from starvation. Ddad
from  starvation in a 'metropolis ,whose
wealth boasts of its charities, its luiuries
and food. That was all.
Others iave starved and died without even
the mockery of hope in their hearts, and
whi not sheI
There shelayaL-peacefdlenough now in the
ghastly stillness of death.
The-half-open glazed eyes; sunken deep ini
the shadow ot the brow; the thin pinched'
features, the pallid, bluish lips, parted and
disclosing the Oet teeth, looking all the more
awful in the dull 'ickerhig gleam of the
candle. Wasted away to -the mere skeletba

of what bad, but a few years betore,}been
the rounded form of abel tt iggi4r; co'rered
wi      11rags and tatte reemints'of
clo   ,tllerein the 'darnia 'solitd
the pojiohlfe6,gone out akne ,up to the
Gooy!wo ggve it,
"Alive this morning- Lead now! Dead
andip-to dje licea      g--no, onot
like ihit, fqr even dogs  this Christian
citylnot starve to deat, Alone, alone
and all foi the love f a hopeless, helpIess
ov#as) like ne" he moaned.     "Home,
friend, a  and at la tever. lifegiven up
topbat my fate. Oh   ar i   ary "
'nd so he'moaned andmouriied, the dull
flasef the c dl   ming his haggard
f'    almost as lqtly a tle rigid face
ofi dead wife.      gain and again he,
kissagathe cold lips that evermore would
return he caress, and sobled arid eied.
t last he became calmer. Reverently he
fol ed the thin-hands over her brast.
s hp did this the'cndlesuddey flamed
up, then di-oppe4 i'to'the bottle--burned
out.
4 Thn all was darkness, and the dead'and
the Avini were iw/i blackness of thiastobi
together.           '         '
The weird whistling of the *ind through'
the efevicesof the shying dor the tttling
of th, loose window sash in the teneinent
above,' and 'the distait noises from 'the
Bowery' alone broke the silence.
How lo'g h had knelt' thud by his dead
wife he knew not. What to him was time'
in the terrible agony'of ttis'hbi§nst supreme
grief. Cold, hunger, all Wike unheeded.
sou'as of men strtdgling together
uponilhe'pavement' above, an'of a cry f6r
help, hlfr suppressed, like that of'a 'esoa
being throttled, startled him from the stupor
of grief into which his mnd had lapsed.
Then he heard a duji thud, as of'a body
falling heavily upon the hard'pavement.
lae listened intently.
For an instant all was quiet. Therewas
bo sound of retreating footsteps. A moment
IUter he heard a low groan1 as though the
Ond who uttered it was dying.'
"Don't-don't ercy-."easnten e-this
prayer for mercy- was' ieve"cinplete.

r

6

Oply, hissed tbroxtgh the teeth, came to the
artied liter's ear:  "There, d-n you,
tatke that!"
Treo was the, sound of a heavy bod
fll*ng dpwn the'steps. In another moinen
the frail door crashed open, broken from its
rusty hinges, and GeorgeJaffray sprang to
his feet.                     sprang. .
CHAPTER     I.
TME NEW WINDFALL AND ITS RESULt.'
By the dim ligrt of a street lamp, which
flickered in through te new open doorway,
he beheid,te fqrn f a man lying across the
threshold the hea downwards, and i6e face
&amp;overed witlibldd.'
Jaffry, 'In the excitement of this tinez-
pected event, for the time forgot 'his own
~reatt grief.
What a chain   of eventsf  Starvation,
eathperhaps a murder, in one eight, in the
wretched burrow' hatcalled his home.
Evidently thisnan lying before him, beat
en tenseless, *s the victim of some Mlant,
Who, decoying him into this narrow,,lonely
street, ahdafter' knocking him. down, hod
robbed him, andthen, the more efectually
to conceal his crime, threww the body down.
the steps, thinking the cellar ;unoccupied,
and fld away with his booty.
Wjs t04s armiscorrect I
Jaffray's first ipl was. to giv B aa
alarm-to call for assistance; but the thought.
of what would be teresult checle hlim.
To call others in might cause hiz* to be ar.,
rested as the murderer of the. unknown.,
IUs own wrtghoo appearance, and his sur-
roundings, wnuld not plea~d veryp1rongly in
favyr of his innocence or truthfulness. Be.
sidos, he hrew that to believe poverty capa-
ble of copimitting any crime in the eaten.
dar was a cardinal duty of the police.
HoldI he may not yet be dead. Jaffray
bent over the body, and throwing open the
coat and vest, placed his hand dver the
heart.
"There is still life left," Jaifray muir.
inured-" feeble-4h how feeble-yet therI.
is pulsation."


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

BETWEEN -THE CRUSTS.

c

In replaping the clothing, and as he with-
drey his hand, his eyes rested upon some-C
thing protruding from: one of the vest
po9kets.
The.moment his flungers closed upon it he
knew by the feeling that it was a roll of bank
notes.
"Money--bank billsI-" fis hand clenchedI
over the little roll like a vice. Then the
thought of his dead wife flashed into hisI
mind. "Poor Mary; these ,would have
saved your life--your life-Too late.-too
late !0 Another thought followed this, upon
whish he acted at once.
He caught the senselfas 'form under the
arms and as carefully as possible dragged it
further nto the darkness of the cellar.
"If I only had a light! Surgly this man
has aqi been robbed. The ruffian, must have
been frightened off, or-"
Silence! He heard the slow tread of sone
one passing upon the pavement above.
"The policeman; much use he is, except
to carry. off the dead after ethe murder's
done.'', The sound of the official's steps died
away, mingling with the far-off noises of the
great etteet beyond. ,.-
Then Jaffray lifted theta wreck of the door4
replaced it'in the opening from the outside,
and Ascending the steps,.hurried down the
narrow street toward the Bowery.
By the light, gleaming -out over the en-
trance to a corner drinking-saloon, he exam-
ined the notes. There were three fiv5-dollar
bills.
Fifteen dollars ! The firstinoney, save per-
hapa 'few shillings, his trembling hands had
grasped in many weeks. His eyeA brighten-
ed. The sight of money in his possession
*as equal to wmonthof surfeit.
Thrusting thenodes hu his pocket, he entered
the salo6n and approached the bir with as
much indifference as in his excited condition
he could assume.'
The saloon was nearly deserted. Two or
three loungers were seated at a table in the
further part of the room lingering over their
last round of drinks, as if loth to leave the
warmth of the place and (begin, their 4ome-
ward tramp through the fierce wind. The

bals of thpe sloon clock marked the h ,M
of twele.
"Bt1randy," said Jaray.
The barkeeper,a young man wiathn'(i
face, high cheek ,bones, a heavy moustache6
keen grey eyes, hair cropped short, aid'with
his shirt sleeves rolled up, handed his cus-
tomer glass and bottle..
As Jaffray raised the glass to his lii-s, he
beheld a smeaT of Mood upon his hand.
The keen-eyed barkeeper noticed it at the
same instant.
To this funetionary, whose liter years had
been passed amid   e,howls and rowdyismi
of east-side gin-shops, the sight of blooA
though niot y any meanson uucnnomgn o0-
currence naturally provoked his curidsity
'out your hand, sir i" he said. o  het
A 1, that brandyis. How'd you cutit I"
"Cut it-no-Only struck it against the
door-post as I came in, that's all" r
Jaffray, shortly.
The barkeeper gave him4 a sharglook e
saw that tes man ,before him, despite the
efforts to conceal his emotion; was laboring
under, the influence of a strong mental z
citeNert. .He noted, too, that the hand,
of his customer, as he held the glass to his
lips, trebled.
"Cold   'nd out," said Jaffra  fter heh d,
drank.
The liquor--and he had taken a tiff dose
of it-seemed to warm him into newlif, 1
had been many a long day since his lips had
tasted liquor.
"Change this bill," he said brusquely.
"A five--ertainly, but "-the balkeeper
held the note up  "Why, man. here's blood
on the bill,,tgo. Off your ha4 s'pose I
How blood will catch and stick to every-
thing, won't it1" He placed the note ,in the
drawer and gave Jaffray his change.
Jaffray gathered it up and, shoving it
loosely into the pocket iof his-shabby vast,
with a curt "good night," turned away and
left, the saloon.
"That man's had arough time somewhere.
Lord, how his hand shpok-the hand with
the blood on it," said the barkeeper to one
of the men at thg table.
"Who is he, Joe I*s

"DMno-but I shan't forgit his fede sho.
He's a hard-looking nut., He's been up to,
some deviltry, I'll bet, or mny game's not Joe
Muddler. He don't look as if he was in' the
habit of carryin' fives and tens about hini as
areg'lar'thing."
Jaffrayout of the saloon, wiped-the blood'
from his hand upon the frayed skirt of his.
coat.
From a neighboring grocery-one ofthose
all-night shops where groceries are the pre-
text and villanous liquor' the reality-he
purchased a candle;' then retraeed'fiis step
to the  cellar, once rore to confront death
and'darkness, and to meet *hat he little
dreamed was to be 'the beginning of a long,
hard battlei..
A battle with fate, a struggle which was
to eid-where I
Onca Within the den, he fastehed the
shattered door as losely as' possible, then
lighted the candle. His first glance rested
upon the rigid face of his dead wife.; He'
shuddered as he turned frota the horrible
sight and stepped toward the form of the
man be had diagged-in from the threshold.'
There had beenin his abdncde, 0' cbnge
in its position; 'there it lay -as -motionless, as
starkgas if the seal of the torub we'e-alieady
uponU 6.
Holding the light nearer fnd shading it
with his hand he bent forward and scanned
the features closely. *
"What fatee" he thought, as he push--
ed the hair back from -the bleeding fore-
head.' 'Ughta'hard blow thatian n'gly
one for your life. The cowardly:miscreant!"
Onceeagain Jnffrey placed his hand-over
the victim's 'hearts "His heart still throbs,but
low and faint. -How warmly clad, richly clad!
Younger, than I too I How stonily the eyes
glare at me, asfixed and movable as'death
itself. Surely, robbery could riot hate been'
the motive, for here is his watch.-.and--and
a diimond pin? 'How it glitters and flashes I
Who is hetThere is no starvation in hip
face.+-only the expression of in awful agony
like that upon the upturaed faces of- the
dying, and wounded upon. a -battle-field.
Who is he-.-I'll see..
Eagerly, trembling with excitem mt, he

I

U ;

'began searchingthe man's pockets. Eager*
ly, rapidly, as if in fear that if he paused the
man might revive before -his'object *assie-
complished. 1        -      .
From insinner pocket he drewoint a pank-
age 'of papers. 'From  another' a -moneyo'
wallet, a newt one with a golden clasp. This
he opened. Wihat a'feast to him were'the
contents.
A roll of banknotes. Five i one' hundred
dollar notes and half a dozen others:of less
denomination.
At that mnien't had thle miah before him
given thd'leastifididatioi of retdrninig daii-
sciousness, his chance of life would have beetl'
frail,
In the mad exeitenient dfcldthingdeat
to him, in his poverty, seenie4 as he looked
upon 'It  ith quIteringngere, "a 'Inine
of wealth;i in 'his Suddenly fried ,d itlu-
tion to keep' the spoils ' so fear'ully" and
st'angel* thrdwn In his way, and in his'ileree
resolve tolake all risks rather' than be iIed,
Ihe 'would have dashed but his victinPs
biind, even there in"the prdsehe, of his
dead wife.
But the form moved not.
Besides the money there were in the wallet
a few business cards, a carte-de-visite,. and
some folded, slips of pencilled. m moranaa,
These he did not pause to examine. Quickly
replacing the notes inthe wallet hethrust
it into his poclgetj The Watch and diamond
pin were left undisturbed.
Despite his greed and desperation, hestill
retained cautious enough to remember what
a clue they would be, in his possession, to
identify:him in 4ftertime in Opannection with
thisnight's awful, work.
, Thesearchwas ended. And George Jaffray
stood beside the unconsciotit, perhaps dying
victim-a thief. A sudden pang of remorse--
of abhorrence, came ,'upon hix, but it Was
momentary. The evil sPirit which usurped
his soul reigned supreme.
.Henceforthy, through*all the.devious' ways
of his life, the mnemory of'this closing night
of his beggar'elife would cling tohimilike a
shadow; henceforth, brighten his path as he
might, that shadow, deepening and growing

~1


r.

'HE CRUSTSM

f

10                        BETWEEN T
as thelyears crept on, would never be exor
cused-never.     .    i   I       1
But the thought, that, withthe means so
strangely obtained he could lift himself out
of the territblesloughiof-poverty ;into which
he had faln tushediout all otherconsid.
erationae Thesecret oftbis crime so far was:
hisown. Fate, heargued in hia desperation,
had thrown the opportunity in his way. With,
this monky atihis command he.could compel
respect; and the good, ho might accomplish
would be a condonation whichV would blot.
out fNreversp. far as his ,onsgjenge was con-
eer*ed, all xeegrd of this night' desPerate,
work.
Then, standing there in the gloom and.
chilf of, that,cellar den, the dull, jiclering"
light of thecagdle casting its ghqstly shad-
o   abqpt kin, gn# oving to hig punger-
zaarkeQ faceiwith its rough unshaven beprd,
and deep agt eyes, the expression of a npuisc
there capie into his mind another demon-
a spirit of revenge. Oh, that"pyt! iTat
long hard battle of the past ; low-its scenes
gmae,up li*e the weird phantapies of a, dise,
tempered dream I How bitter the,, con-
trasts!
A saddrama, a strange medlpy of pain,
hope, despair; the slow descent from honor
ixd god'reputein the brighter and better"
days of his life, through all the gradations
of privation, to this, the lowest round of the
ladder-robbery of the helpless victim of a
midnight marauder, and that, too, in the
presence of the form of his dead Wife-..dead
from starvation I
From this'retrospect arose the thought of
revenge.
Revenge upon those to whom in the past
he attributed his mistortuned and 'the Ideg-
radation into which he had fallen.
Suddenly he flamed up in an outburst of
passion.       .    A.'A
" I'll do it. -They shall feel all the bitter.
near I have felt, all the pain, sorrow, and
misery she has endured, if I can bring it
about. Henceforth in this strife it will be
blow for blow, till death. Ourse them alli
Oh, Mary, angel that you wereI Shall I
leave her poor remains herev.-here to the
mercy of-Oh ! this is terrible-terrible!'

"And yet; to call in asstace-No; no;
cannot do that. She caninever know mnoft
on this earth.. God -help, tue+-what shall Is'
do,?"1             ,!
He bent over the ghastlyfieb of his wife
"Cold and silent now. No more love and,
faith in those dear eyes. Nothing Nothing!
Farewell!I
"You abandoned home, friends, all, to
:shar my lot for good or ill No, no; thy7
abandoned gjou!, 04. heart of mine, what
a hard battleis before; me!. Aad; I must
fight it through lpue. ThzoogU travail and,
agony you havegone, "your rest. Threu&amp;gh
what travail,hitternsa, aqd contentionmsy,
I npt hpve to pas to. reach mine, , pnd with,
only the remembrance of your devotion in,
Qurhappier daysto- lighten with its glesw
the sombre darkness of the broken path
which I must follow to avenge our wrongs.
"I takb my last glance, and henceforts
George Jaffray will be- as insensible to love
or pityuaifhe wereiron.'.
,One kiss upon her brow,noistewith, the.
damp of the cellar, and coldw-oh, how iVy U,
-with. thechill of death, one long lingering
look, and then with trembling hands he
drew the wretched coveringof.thepallet,
over her fAceerushed the light, oit ,under
his foot, and fled from the scene to the:street
above
Still through the desolate narrow street
the mad wind roared aud shrieked,:rising,
and falling as If it were staggering drunk
with its long revel.
A solitary policenlan, shivering - in the
shelter of a doorway at -the corner of the
street barely glanced at the figure which
passed him and as swiftly vanished from
his vision, as if it had-beeu a spectre riding
upon thewind.I
"That feller's in a&amp;bigger hurry than the
blastedd wind. UghI how it cuts into my
bones, If that chap Was in my place and I
was in his, perhaps I wouldn't-beat him a
gittin' home!V Oh, no-certainly.Iwouldnet.
And maybe I wouldn't have been, home
hours ago, inted of ravin' alongas he is. at
this time of night.. Ugh I "was the mental
comment of the policemian as he drew.closer
into: the doorway, and anathematized

T  , wprnan with the sharp visage,,ttn
lipo, and keep, restless eyes during ithe brief
absence of Madamq Griugo did notf4il, as
is the custom of the ogsrage female of ,Mid.,
dIe age when left alone ina strange apart-,
meat, to make a general survey of the,".gall
-of Reception," and anent)ly note..it. con
'tent0, so far ae aSperfwV4 e;Iination
'would permit.
When Madame Gringo returned her vis-
itor was seated precisely in the same position
in which she had left her.
" Oh, Madame, Se cat, was upset tree-four
plates-dat was ze hbise.'
"Madame Gringo, you have called me by
name 9
- "Mon doo, We art tell zat, yisterday-
weeks,. months,-years ago, if I ask dat. I
know to-day wot willhappen-come to pass,
efery tay, to-morrow, all times."
"Madame, I hive called upon you for
business purposes. Don't want my fortune
told. I care nothing for thestare or your,
art, or any art except the art of getting the
best of my enemies. 'You haye told me my
name ; now in. return I will tell you yours.
Your name is Clutchit, and that cat is your
-husband, You see-am I correct?1"
Madame Gringo Clutchit did not answer
with that alacrity which might have been

t, die fatie. which had plaed shim on
duty ou Ouch aniglkt S,ad  gueh A gloo"ym
neighborhood.
Still'speeding from that street of. old rook-
eries never glancing to the right or the left,
speeding on up the wide, an&amp; nownearly,
deserted Bowery, George Jaffray had looked
his last upon the dismal-den where death
had robbed himof the only being in all the
world whom he could claini as a friend, and
where for the first time the stain of acrime
had touched his soul.'
Speeding on-where i
CHAPTER IV,
MADAMl GRINGo 'Ls'ENs To A Usmiust
PROiOrITIO.

expected fro % Aw*R   sp deeplyvrp,cd i
the occult science of reading the future. ar
0hadtrun' tioued anything of this sort.
Noting her silence and hesitation, as wel4
as the ,nervous contraction of the lips and
haaed expression of ber, eyes, the sharp.
risaged woman continued: "Now let me
ladd, that not only is; yourname Clatchit,
ut I also, know, the pawnbroker's shop
where..-yol  deposited some,, days 1 since a
small golden cross, set with diamonds,iwhich
was accidentally dropped ftom the person of
Ayiuftflia vpry room, and that the money
you obtained upon it-
hMrs. Clutchit recovered her power, o
speech verysuddenly.
" Diamond cross, womann! Who are youI
[sall call my husbandJ...o -..
"Call him? fMy despMrs. Clutohit4pa't
(~tate yopr el. The, diamon4frgssw,
ine. See, here it is', She, threw asile,
her 9a2nj Mrs. %platepuitpehejl tWe glit-
tering enr1em,
")ar Mrs. Clutohit, don't, I epqat, egi-
tateygurself4-Ishall make no troiAble abput,
it.  I amrejotieed that, it has happened.
p n Icalled hegre th other day,.it was
really, 'to transact the. business which  s
brought me here to-day. A4 you remember,
the useqxpected arrivalof two or three sim-
pletons in haste to consult your art caused
me to defer thatbgsiness, and when I passed
out I saw tppt my diaqiondcross was gone.
I knew youhadl fogn4 it, pielged :it. upfrors
the fdpr. X did not carol to return fo; it,for
I kawtosaa was qfc By means beat known to
myself Ieadily discoyered the broker who
advanced upon. l,. I.redeersd it."
"Were they ,real-are those real dia-
monds I" eagerly demeaded Mrs. CJtchit,
hgr wholg dema0 nor changiug,
"RealI Yep, else Mr. Clutchit equldlnot
have obtgnuIone hgdred dgilars upon the
," Q-nieh -a-drd -o-l1-a.ri-s I " Now
Mrs. Clutchitsprang to her feet. Rer eyes
fairly snapped, lle!voiemssemd to rasp oven
theragged edge of her anger. "The wretch !
To deceive me-me, his wife,! Mr, Smith,
woman, I copfessf it p l-byt-but, -Oh,
Dick Clutchit, you shall pay for thisl Lis-

1

BLVWEFRN THiE .CRUST,8;.


BETWEEN THE ,CRUSTS.

I
N
I
4:
i-I'

ten I' We were-are-Very, poot  Clutchit;
there in the next room--"
"The cat," interpolated the woman, quiet.
ly.
" Yes, ClutchitV 'took that cress, to .the
broker's; came back with the ticket blotted,
so4I couldn't male out what the figures were,
and told  me the stones were only paste,:
and he'd only borrowed twenty dollars on it.
The liar I-and--and-l believed him--the
villain-' I
"Put not your trust in husbands."
"And he's keot the balance. For three days'
and nights he came home drunk as a lord.
Oh, rIl expose him-and to-night.-oh, it's
too much-the beast, I'll-I'll-"
" Ob no you 'won't," said the 'visitor,
smiling grimly, "yon won't do anything to'
bringhimn into trouble."
Mrs. Cletchit by this time had subsided'
into a spasm of hysterical sobbing- -a sure
symptom in- a woman that she is cotfiig
round to a sensible condition of mind.
-"I want 'to' use Mr. Clutchit-as won is
yourself, and if you serve my purpdse, not
only will-I forgive you or him of -this trick-
ery with my cross, but I will see that yonu
both will have ample reward. Now, then,
call in Mr. Olutchit?"
"Clutchit I Clutchit 11"called Mrs. Clutch-
it.
In compliance with the call, Mr. Clutehit,
bringing with him the odor of tobacco-
smoke, entered through the hall ddor.
When he came in, almost the first object
his eyes rested upon was the gleaming dia-
mond cross upon the visitor's bos'6m.
Clutchit paled. - Could it be possible
"Dick," said his wife, "this lady has a
little business for us to transact, she-"
"I will explain It. I shall require the
services of Mr. Clutchit more particularly 'at
first. To begin with, I Wish hini to accom-
pany me to my residence, I will then show'
him what I want, and through 'him commu-
nicate to you what you are to do. As an
evidence that I aan in earnest, here are twen-
ty dolarra."
Clutchit shivered.
Twenty dollars to begin with, Mrs.
Olutchit. Is it a bargain I",

Of course it was.' What will not poverty,
detected in- a criminal act do to condone"'
the offence.
As Mrs. Clutchit received the twenty dol-
lars she gave Mr. Clutchit the benefit of a
look which made that individual shiver
again.
CHAPTER V.
GUROGE JAFFRAY GETS ON TOr OP TIE
CnUsvo
GEORGE JAPPRAY sped on through the
gloom of the night, in defiance of the fierce
wind which seemed to whistle a poverty's
dirge through his threadbare garments. At
last he crossed the street and entered a place
over the door of which, painted upon the
glass, was the sign
"LODGINGS."
'Whatever money he might have with him,
hC'knew that he was in no condition to pre.
sent hmself in a hotel in quest of a room;
his appearance was too suggestive of the
vagabond for-that.'
Having paid the amount demanded as the
price of bed and room for the night, Jaffray
was speedily conducted to them by a half-
asleep, flabby youth, bearing in his grimy
haid a smoky tin lamp.
"Anythin', else," he queried as he placed
the lamp upon the.stand.
NQ ; go I" answered Jaffray.
"D Dy'u want to be called early I"
"Ho; go I I'll call myself ,when I'm
ready-"'
Rum   old rounder, that cove I" mur-
mqured the flabby youth, as he disappeared,
down the dark passage.
Jaffray closed and bolted the door, and
seated himself in the only chair in the nar-
row, cell-like room.
4" For the first time in many a long week
George' Jaffray can enj6y the luxiuy 'of~ a',
bed," he said, as he glanced about him, but
at wiat a cost
After'sitting awhile the wild intense ex.
citement of the past few hours passed awaq,
and now that be. was calmer he begar to
feel the heavy physical weariness produced
by mental exhaustion'and long fasting.

BETWEEN THECRUSTS.

But by   strong effort he roused himself,
enk taking the wallet from his pocket, pro-
ceeded to give its, contents a thorough,
ting f   ..
"arte-de-visite. What agloriqus face but
nothing, of the apgel in it---there is too mucOi
of earthly passion in every ijne of its
beauty. Ei8 sister or his, aIanced. , Even
AoW'theone or t4e other is perhaps, dream-
lng of him-whom. they may never agan
beh9  ,in life . Bah I that is sentiment,
orge .affray, have Oc  yih that.. jlerg-
after granite, nop wax. The baxgk notes. Al,
'I know what they are. They are the key
which will ma iV t4e verst ygabond, the
worst of 4coundrels.to  at paradise offfols
and unting-ground ofknaves-fashionable
ocliety. Ah I what is this?"
As he spoke be drew from the wallet alittle
He unfolded it.
Acticket of the Hayana, Lottery.three
months old, eh I Thp draw ngin Janjary.,
Ah, that's over and gone,. and this is a,
blalnk. Number one thousand nine hiqndiedi
and- thirtyv-nine.  I'll not destroy It yet.
Wlo0 nows but'it may be a pref. . I'll look
Into the matter after I throw off the outward
guise of the outcast, and agah resume. tbe,
semblance of what I, once "as2-a genle-
man. One-nine- thirty-nine--I shan't for-:
get the number. fo I a 'memoranda, Z
should like to know his name. Imay never
learn that, should he'die in that wretched
cave." Ugh! I'bope not. I'll look no mr e
noW. I am Worn out.' Ini the mbramgor
to-morrow, I'll go through these pspers---not
now." I
Placing the notes and'wallOt- beneath the
solitary consumptive pillow as'a matter 6 ,
-security, and ag'in carefully noting the fast-
enings of.the door, In a. few 'morhents he
was in bhed,, and' steeped in that heavy,
dreamlesanleop, whichtaan only come tothe
-utterly tired. ,.
He awakened late; the noise and roar
from terstest' told him themorningwas
far advanced.
That one long undisturbed,,slumber had
renvlgorated hin; ;ot, for monhs bad he
fettso nearly like the George Jaifray of that

13

earlier'andsbrighter, time when* misbry and
he were strangers. His mind 'waslelear; and
as he lay there for a brief period meditating,
busily?iapping out his plabsfr'the ffiture,
the last night's-fearful'oideal4and the fate df
his wife came to him more like ithe rimem-
brance of a distemperedi dream.
The thought of his dead wife alone sad.
denedhita.
As the recollection of their happier days,
of her deVfotion and unfaltering love, which
crowned her memory aswith, a halo, came
unto his mind. the tas 'welled out ponhis
thin,, starved fage, and jhe sobbed: like a
child.
And, now to the Morgui-f om there to
the ,unmarked grave of the upinowa and
unclaimed.' ,
. y the side of that grae he mi$ht nd4Vr
staod,;' o' wreaths or if  ortelfea  uld be
cast uppi th loikely mound of this, theidis-
carded,disowned daughter of Jerome Duval.
'The victhuyof a fatkrs pride could have no
tribute save her outcast husband's life-ong
memory.;
g-Jffay '1bigot In his -grief'tiat he had-
gi'veh is name to the' lWovd  hose ex-
cessive idnadness bad permitted him  to
occupy the cellar at a dollar a month.
-Jcer6nd Duval'!" "O ,bnt'oit shall rue
the dsy yoi began, hunting ine own with
your'accursed wealthabd bitter htred1"
He sprang fron the bed.
For the l ist time he arrayed himself in
the threatdhere garments' of the poverty-
stricken outcast,'  -
Again he counted his triasureZaltogether
over si     4 up,   ;   en tlgasting
every other thought from hisemindyhe began
an ]eamihation' of the papers as 1menmo.
randa he haid takebifrons th estrner.
But in these he obtained ,no elew to their
owner's name, or the place of his abode.
One letter-%nly on 14 this little pack.
age.
That was written by a woman.
It began with "Dear Robert," And closed
Vith "ever your lovingster, Louide.*
Robert.-ouise.  '
the envelops was missing.
b   He read the letter slowly, pausing and

I"A

A

LI;


B ,T1wilw;EN T99, CAUMTS

uFTW9EN IIM T1UC OUST$.

I

T""dig pcttione'of# it her and there; as.
-if zaaeaiuly to fix it#contents -in- hismeni.
Thusaran he letter *itta in ' clear, neat
'andy wifth uot- a Uotorerzstire fromrbeghn.
4iago ezid. There till lingered, upoa iti
the faint odor efmlangnourette - ithwhch it
had bep pgprfqrniqd:
Naw YQRK, November 14, f1054,
Dzkn lRonut~m':
''At lastieur fears havd wan~shed,.T* knO'w
tbtgq    nre  still panqng, the ) ving, that
our ongsilezc i 40,4Olaiy erplaimod,ad;
bikfh Sis aJoyful come
'Pemiiti~aO for"s' rl6 g ,A efi#A I ii *the'
continent. Now that you are in Londol it
Bev,   jrjr941r~at ere,X~opKnow
,Cr  ft y s      cW1    obe    owe
moother,an  perhaps be e than-sitw-
if*MZit anxiwisjw~inswhpip     u
P~!p1wi4~a~pp~rten   ofise nrn-
sn;so ' ONu     *U    or oreignsr,
and luxurious beard that it will boan 'Age
'*ePW rtrl'to'e$dtarelyonurtrsBIieat'All6
wll-jawye#' are gone tove, 11*4 with;
co           ,uay~og, wargitool isb.
le 10hilghto  as aeit ow dollars in z a "lvana'
1;6ttrlei, bitMwo U3    Tel tl bea'
and etlance never 4~gp.4ieas        et
to -Madtie Gringq'saterdiAY, she iR
~~ne fthb.yot1tQy'6u' 1w6w. ' Oh,
zuchaffoetitnd P Just lkettelWhat .heae
mne-all for a dollar. Aligomawuldn't ave
Wers toL  "ovO1l .1he sad, soon meet
la   deiran 4yOmsit*AukcteThco
, srk easi, f e     ut    dbart  b  ih
man willwr     4heIl;the azk ma wl
be very Weilffiy. , tlttt6Is I 'a cloud gath.
4dag bvysu awfutureULMAthet the ld story.
tel   dsh cul     ot gafurther' Now,
de  f q~a1qa~            rself--remem-
'brL '=$            fo&amp;c~gi'ryou, and thiat 'our
prayers for your safety reach over the drft
treacherous watous wideh separate us dily.a
Aap. -an equal number from-Alice, 1,.olosd
this letter.
zvdordk bnhg, dgiorv

'And'this was all.. 'Until, the' day, eftis
death'he might oariy that lettier:aid In~ytt
know or-, fid the writer,'
"Pshaw 11" he said, as at last he fielded t4i
the letter, -atid replaced it 'with the O*Witi'pa.e
pets "i' mre',Wastid of 'tme-41x'leLUise
64t df tlbusaslds bekink thoa naniki- lathis
'vast city.-"II iii;ht1n'a t6n $earg' ardh  a~
p en, to 6i&amp;d hehr. G~tea*&amp;  r Itiifi
'be nmin' That tilkt 1 Bidaently Itwa pr-
chased in Lcnsdorn. 'If it should pt6V 'tW
haed aw a 'PrIze1  'Yet celtalisly 't4
rhnaw6i~ud'have s'eken'tbheo d  inin  Ja8u
sry, 'before heI sail'd~Ay to hIas dojom.
lie- Iaiit have '-iarri'ed by' 1a'6eateday's
steauler, I *&amp;aIt "ertan what steamers ar*
'ivedd.JI Ca n see ithe siarnes of"the passengers
upon the list.flobd oe    o   - 1 4 4"
myself. With money everything is POO-
sible."1T                      7
tfttAnJeiM~* bitudlelr in his hew g0lie,
'blea&amp;n'slaved, 'ave the' moustach, hi~s
uiikenmpt'air cut 'clo'se 'in th  lates% j 7vl,10
'Vroadlable hat lm~d, with'a itrightr'lJok in
hitshrrj eyes there remained z voting
'itaib1l bfi  bhollo 1 heks oremii4 li6
Mi'llhikrd strugge w I t amine.
Once More a man amongmcn,
So changed in his 1on ~1sence fronm the
vted and   oedr that n~tieven Jerme
Duval      i n  retpeype f hate, would
ha've recogniredit
He secured a suite of rooms in onesof-'the
most fsasioaabk',%axd;exclusivbr of theip.
town hotels.    '   '
A&amp;,hotel' honored -by' the- patronige ' Of
dukes, baronets; and,'foreign ministers when
,iw ftneit through the- eity; 'ahd' 'where
everything washigh and ight andcostlyt
and where every movement of Agd64-rek-
iseatid a donceurto tr6 ezivts. ,-
-Take'ttseliats-6ithist-- otetlftheir
white cravats, spotless linen, and btep"M6fi.
*b'le'tio~el-t4Ald dress', oits,ind' P iiern
one 6f thmtn*ould oasi' tbi' aa dbW666Ib.-

flowing *ith the, tolema isuPOrt8Ance;Of''his
4rlte o ofdcelrks of the hmk-rparted~in-tho-
middle, heavy-gold-.chain, blazing-dfkraond-
f wtot,; the mtognifteceht' palorS, the,, Mir-
rots, glittering chandeliers, and"'all the d
junc  o'$nupec~crust IAraerican ibetel,
gave token to each' seeker for U4' aqd 4bogrd
that his purse must be deep and/full to, tarry.
there.
CHAPTER VI.
RE I YEn, AUG14STU5, 4WRIPGX
r4 jsumeidw the vixqgar-ftced
WOraa~s, witbL a siile upon, her counte-
: 14e;' 'A.Cu4twl o please 'Call
upon mse tq-mo~rqw--7aZBsay-.'Well, 1iwill
batitayl r'e TadwaY;you can 40oP
In, there,sa at~ four in the. afternoon. I
will thmesn tu   ua$ -6ot hq buiess;
p~W4  eq~o   eceytisne, and
Gngot        3~b~    god
,r~hlpased ont.Mr. C9tclt, to elin s
.Opp, 0he ui, nd rpmAM, o po4,1qy
~4spny,  eopa edjerjO jhe dopr.
"The wind is going down"saId tht
lu 1to tW&amp; theIWOmSA u xlieo: d, dW*
1, J     LeUgY49ulteit to atUtotOstlchold,
f-   Ifor~t as5 h [Wig~tt iolYfromn, IsajVp!U
JJ  .well ti follo*ithewomttn t6-lsetvhoume 01
ipished    ,whp Iaaho-itsmiistresst Out
the wife of a clergyman-a minist Oerof tb
ep&amp;.6* 406the-Aevend , ' &amp;igustus ?Paw
K      Mgd dytL-ublget'than )hersei;

I

'24

with carefully , arranged fludrary
wWakers; blue 6yeawith a voiWeOf k
subdued, -Bort -4w-UiEIIIuatiYObl5U4n--Oh,
'the delights ofA; alarV of tekithousan&amp;A
uyear; -he had ,the nattieet, )bOA tstpptag
team on the "1roAad nwas thePat of thS
bigh~toned congregation over-ivhieh he
presided,
His wife at the time oftheir humdrage,'
five- years ''before,' wab pd~ewsd; of a
leg".*ytf itea ,thdanddblarpumd hd
bopes-"tvery Aionig hopea -tot -a ndliOU
when a cettain auht' sh4dd*- odms W.
Cluichit's Ib~pressim, f I lop -ovvr,.Ato
eterity."  hev i*yuIij   dh   et~n
,$ood circjai, Apipt hq v*i9gry
race, ,hel4 hqrg,, e  rr~lw~~SIb
,wrapped 4ersel  &amp;tezuutyo        r
bank count, and,J~gjv As j
the, !awe) W.r        '~to      uod
ridgPS PM pt Sia m*atl . t  4  Wit
cwrd I    414,qq -w4§ teAzyearsa. 14
~enipd ~8e s~w14 tt sorti f !a*
~looks, if the means wg6,qIT  04,wpld
~ p~taufo bi~  eaU,~o~ felqnable
ehc.A44d-"ff Wo IWIP, 1e fqOls  be
SIn their love affaifts-she, bed  JW.h~
Sreoly,4194ght01 W*4 il4er, f-1p4ed
Anot
a   Before their marriage he wa* 'a Pqrt . f
1okn S UfP4o , be   ropc1
e    ShMm  o0 o fei o~b'hldeoihwmon of
utedyignffbox3Z4   A JUMtlY~fter
Sthdr'ra i Oage ai4f 1pMOUPI I iFXtA*~
Tweato-thir4 Ot.t rPs O 4OPI   Ater-
estd hewlf in swnr~pg34oA
a    As Jerome M~A.ws xrIakr ~
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~t onio  zgt~n~~~u~  lgnOf
n  "her churehk! stu&amp; asMitepreesu$ nwIvater
hadjnbt zI'gned in cn~seqU0~ae ofA little
" ifregularity' 0ofcoya4Uot." not altogetber
yj unconnected with the social I standing of
to tho haandllo  opftit ,of Ab c~ h e
V4 nsod hIer,- bafuepl* 'with tMr. DnvT4  itr d
' three or four other equally high-tonad

'1

AS


1t

BETWETEN HE CRtTS.

4;
j
I

worsbiperk to- such effect that within a
few weeks the Reverend Augustus Paw-
ridge received the coveted "call."
Meantime the aunt 'died, and left the
million to half 6 dozen:asylums and 1for
the - establishment -of- divers'free soup
houses and, a. "retreat for"people. who
have seenbetter days"'
But the, ten thousand a year salary
softened this disappointment.
So we find them..
lReturnedfromherviait to the Clutchits,
she foundheirhusband in is"'study," an
apartment ornamented with several cases
of bookswlich he seldom read., .
She paused at-the door and listened.
Her reverend husband- was reading
portions of Ihii' next -Sabbath's sermon,
which, being one of his last year's dis-
courkslightly iAterdd, was not altogether
ungilIar to h e ar.'
"Yove'oe anotber, mly brethren. Love,
is the fundhtloel society. - Love is life.
All perta gne eiedf love-sah that is
the beginning -of 'the better life.' Soar
above "te' iniseiablo conteml&amp;tion ofd
liere :ito the loftiet;'pure atmosphere'
of uxiveisil 16v4."
" The hyproerite!" imrineured, "lut
how 'nicely heeadf Lo'e-yes, that's
his weakness, but-'hot his eligldn-loUe
forsobthP'"
"Love," Ithe Reverend Pawridge con-
tinned, 'should anniate'everjr human
breast-"        '
"Spediallffthose Jou 1v' better tban
me, yon vIper.    S'e io*4red her face
and applied her egetolthe keyhole.
"He's rehearsing and coenbiAg his whis-
kers. TPllbamb him tieforeplongi ff heidon't
turn over a new leaf I With this final
inward ejaculation, she opened the door,
and entered the "study."
Mr. Pawridge stood before. it "mirror,
with otie had extended luan oiatorical
aionA, while 'with the 'other he was
flounrishing'acoinb through his magnificent
auburn whiskers.                 r
" Ahj my' dear," he said, 44you have
beei Out--a rough night, my love, for outa
door ealia; where've you been t"

"Visiting the poor," she replied.
"Charity, thy name is woman. By the
way, I have had visit i in your ab.
senee.
"On such a night! and who were 'they,
'My dear?"
" Brother Jerome Duval and his daugh-
ter, Edith, my souls delight."1
"Edith your soul's delight-eh
" No, no,! You; you--not Edith."
'CHAPTER VIL
NO. "1989" 1 A PRIZE, AND 3nINGs A NOT-
*     AILD ADDITIOitiTO OOrTy.
HRE  George  aff ay sought rep6e, but
not under his own nqin9e.  le, looking
over an evening paper, hebread the account
of the discovery of "'The ell'treidiori-or."
This was tie i"latest editiAn."
"so that mouey-giaspin "wretch, bf a
;landlorA recogiized the cti  ohi tl' mid.
nightI attack as George Ja'ffay!I Then laim
dead and have no righttoMY own naMe.
dood    I'am only a ghobst.'Dear wife, she
-I'll tbinli tf hat no more; i uni rves me.
Whatwketch 16wer than I was' ebuld have
ent red the cellar ind  ompleted-the foul
niglt's work by' sfhfpping the dlad.iie
wasrndt dead hetI fled' frbin the place,
The"villaini do\btess, killed hhii outright.
Tha k'God that brimne i'not upon my con.
seinice,' kih, Jeiome Duval, this is a crumb
for you
George Jaffray had registered his name
as Robert- elenham, 'of New Orleans.
A A  ek's rest--a week,,of Sundas it
seemed to him, in which, ajpdtently idling,
he nientally planned fout his future course.
Again and again the collection of, the
lottery ticket wove itself into his thoughts.
At last' one morning he 'Visited! Will
street.  "I ,idght -as well satisfy myself
and be ild'of the thing.  What a ,budbear
a doubt is!  Why is it'this ticket is so
constantly thrusting Itself into my mind,
as' if It were' a part and spaue of my
future)"'
-He entered Ithd warm, Icomfbtably-fur-
nished office of the -agent of ;the Havana

THE REVEREND AUGUSTUS PAWRIDGE SPEAKS OF LQVE.
(see page 16.)

Z4

4'l

1'


4;

in,

17

-i~*ttpery, and -walked- up tokthe tbanking-
counter.  BehiWo4.t,  na    'lono;desk.
eovered .with pspei% .'and account ;books
atid leaninggracefuaIly'against a  hugevand'
fancifulIly-painted .,safe,.,,stood, a-1 laborr-
ately dressed individual, his hair parted in
the ,middle, anidb iablonde- roOustaoha-isb
snarvellouslY wazed and p9intec tb, the
,ends looked~like the hotnsj,6f a catfish.
He.,was industriously employlbd.in  cfaping
1iis,,finger nails wIth sadinflnite-sitged pen?
ksnife.                  .1
As 1Robert -,Glenbam rri  pjrofi~hecb )tte
counter the, young madlliftedihhis eyelid%,
dropped them,..and, IAeyvichntkdT~~ith,
his nail-scraping.
ticket in theavaia-Lottery."::  u
"'Ahl t"said", the c &amp; lbW1uhi#oa
another nail.           .        I~0
"i jnrchased in ondoin,.'addGlonl.
hami " ,andt4hought butilittle'.df 'it"unl- h
few   daOsinlce, .and.; atthoin~h', LIhdvd' no1
doubt that it is a blank-still, passlvg ixfi
and noting ydur signilth-6ubt 1 4*1ild
drop  in and-'.  t  -I,1it 1 ,'  .;:; ' -  i Jo 3  tr
The excessively gi~ute&amp;l il.jsctaj r khedI
his'eyelidsi-'andfihondes izid~d~ltq  nlp* ithd'
"Got thetidket, mith outlfl iof
"Yes, sir."1 Glenham handedit it hM
"Hereit ls.y"      -k,) d"Io i ;1-31
6"411 " The, cler kiglneed, at tv car&amp;-
lessly.  The drawing ta-whiehcbhht tlkpt
.belongs was li,1astJafiuary"* ~df
£Of course."           ~      P i.
"T  'eis, h lst hf dtawm ntdibers) Wthe
scheme of 4t honthV "sadlherrclkWg
a ptckagd'qf pibtd staikm ooeloog   sr
and t4o5ing it
tok it over.",. i ' tnnt once ItetrepqMrni'1
his old position, andagabin idevotedtlierk-
ergts -of -bis gigaic 'nthectifLo the nnil-
aerapingtomk. '4 -I h 1
Presently Glpham iueterdclanexdau   a
it startled the clerk so suddenaIothat ho'm
J!Qodeblwtyl'M ospthoerkc, drpping'
his knife and grasping his figer.I

Glenbam'9s finger was upon a Uie intthe
drawing.,,,.
"Here hrelr Why4 l oyui 1an11 Sm
this-1.it (rawa'a, priM1t , cri~d Gitanhamn,
his voice trembling wiWh excitement. /1 1
, i, 61 hma 1, *lt;  k
44Odibth(uW14dMtt bmn'rdO-b&amp; i~thikty-
fine bat k                    -nhtda~nLxehundred
The '1-hl O tilve '  fiathe rnili -he
-fdrF'gbf tlUpilil Of h~s 'lir. "
9          ) ,l  ! I, Iutnd-t~M'ie 'se6e"ldt
me see." One glance was sufficient. There
it Was.
"And-an     Ypu. rev;,-knew jit I By
George I that's a big hauL"1
IbQught of u$11replied the clerk. "We..P
~'A   lit  ~~'i u~6d
ticket say a few thousnd  &amp; n  cil4frL",the
balance for ou x,,  ,Welyin
kirtp du  s pur carg4ofve per. cent.
~nl  tcustOmary disc6unt of thie o~ico m
tteu aminsentiid4 to this arrangeclTe
'on a4  0et        3 cW.1iithe~n'
ceck trkro   ain'iia a~
a1~      '6a0o  s m Years frinii'ni4 him
don 6 &amp;nt6 abject 1fralne.-ntha
dh6"iilA"r~A  traois up(n  i
SI         th i*Alpd dol1n I ,,.Witji
TWh~y I 1b a1 'p)"     41Lii 'e
Won rov1     , PcwpQ$Rnstleblli~di.The etert
,wuq74bW tat,  ad p~rgqd ftq% h&amp;bisao, l
trace whatever of sentiment or fancies it may

I'
r'

I
ii
1;

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

a


BETWEEN TIM CRUSTS.'               19

1F

have entertained in the time of his earlier
p'rosperity. , , t1  , -  -'  ,f '.'
To all and through all the plans and
schemes with which fbe Was beginning to,
,cro*dtheffuture, there was but one ruling
motive-accumulation- for the sake- of re-:
vengs,;np,lsvable yepgespgqe qponthose, to
hin -hettribute.d hipps4 .egradation.
"Now then, open wide your arms, Society,
.witall   b4  ow  oplries, your paint-
e.d fnes. 'ilLfull your (Cirqean cup, put o!D
your gayest colors, wear your Ibrightest,
;zmilss,ohahiou a lfor another vTatiyy  sits
your embrace. .Yotary I 9 ppr-13pt vqtary.
-was ylur s  nve,Qw  l)1 be your mar."
CH ATE 'Vi
Encar dMM h8'"MisittitTvO AN- #NefX-
PECTED SCENE IN HIS BANKINGr.OUSgf
A*D 'dir~di WbVLymi A'ursta,'
JEROME DuEL     a       9- e as his
temple, and Ae w     W Y ,estuIna it
went 1)agd t4 $    sa    t  p-Aiis
clerks-ifi      ,. ever so t a int tiey
iegtectet ie1r ti  -
Ia s  a   easier,  on ,f  those
master    OVb5    yed r mogphaa
are jkja e y d   ispd    oti hat a
Jerome Duval aenerinwhdSe      4.
'   ehWAs great a   #ael donidence
'Vn
Ihve   anyboAy, was a ma
physta      eand fOr twphy ge
ha    tihei  tMaer,
p u iace of a epeer to1     -.
ent 'po ation.
A hunchback ,    one shoider 6igher'
* *dtd61561ef6W  'fadeW
red beard sprinkledW tft  kyh1Di  i
tif   indwliifd dn M     hs      a
good-natured smile ' , ,      dI  L
itw k S1bydutleelt#idt f blftk Wih a{
etagIedMWtt dtee deaca h  i a11!,
draggled44oking hellat,rbedBd $ir "vf

long, bony-fingered hands--Abel Kramp
waA about as -uncoth"a cashier as the
indnetary world ever produced
Asito'his ability, his shrewdneas and
sagacity had too-often beentested t6 ad-
-mit of being questigned.i ,
As mllch of a marvel to the 'clerks as the
history 'of the Sphynx; with ,a reticence
of, speech so positive: and a demeanor so,
imtbnetrable, that not eoen the banker
vould disturb them withh a  voice harsh
and, repulsive, the words 'and brief sen-
tences he uttered sounding as if. they-
werebrubbed utt over a nutmeg  grater,
And, with a habit, of swaying bis head
back and forwardd like ,a tea-shop :man-
darin.
46,4oontime; Jerome Duval was seated
in the private.etUoea~fihia banking-house,
at his ,desk deliberattog, some ischene
for the further benefit of .his, idols --
epeult~y ,of wealth, was' suddenly -in-
,empte dbythe"entrance othisc easier.
a' AJ14Iy wisieB: 1losep you' grated
N 6Wbat -Inher , bs iness  queried Du?-
val, looking up from his papesa,
dU 41diotwak fherY .71 V, ea.a
!A peripatetic beggar -for.soie' orphan
asylum, or-well, give her ten dollars and
see that my natmeis'Appended te;thdsub-
" She is not here for that. She js-richly
dressed, wishestd-sebyoupbrsonitll1;sir,"
grated the iaAhier ~    b       .
"Bid her dme:inttheaf saidADu#alT,
in an impatient tone.  '.
-   fihwakhiergewith thIN A ratingni tist
OfPhA6gwbronly s luIwfotedua
4an)eedute withoutiAjeinting his;knees,
Iefttie"bakdoreteea dWithliihe
isnomentsliepretutmedf dherinbu6 e iddy ii
-metlie-banking'rodm  s a  ' bio e
-lisf Thabisjfiuval/?rasedithdeabie
giving the veiled face of the .sitwapaxt
-ingihat withbilAbnely dyerU mW
Duval arose, and bowingratiflyp jintid
a4h ;tbrew asideiler14ilp atidolela
to the banker the face1 f     *igg diaft
alotover thinkg~uwed ifah oed

andradiant with health. She was riclal
dtdsd; dndihei bearing was thai o  if on
hbe ocid'i' phsitio, was-fully e4ual to
Eid own, dileast in Wealth.  -      - ,
" You are Mr. Jerome Duvali" she
skedjin a low, quiet tone.1
it" I am.--
"You have busineis conections - with
Nessrs! Bullion, Bond &amp; Co.,'London, I be-
iheve W"
- Duvireplield with a; nod of assent.
"This," said the strange yvsitor, drawing
from a Russia satchel a letter, "is the last
letter I received froin niy bithr. It is dated
February the tbird. It'is ini answer to'one
iVritten to hini by me on'the las jay of Pe-
cOiber." - Shbe opened thelefei.
"Zn this letter-he-he-.1 She pused.
Ihe small gloved hands wl ich g1d the let-
ter-trembled,
CHAPTER     IX.
THE CASHIEh .JINTAODUCES A VIBITORs
'Tin bunker'a ih     sitirixed"'with
tears. He sa id lothiin  ia ilntendntfde
zmaned uriovd HMd" thbieters been
dollars he might -have evinced sori menW
tion.
' I beg your-yodr tArdon, ir,' she rntr-
tids Ibuft-we loved hini so, ana--and
we may never see him again." '
She regaind lieromipos fe dntlyud
i Isubdno d tone'itinud.'
te &amp;-iit4 will'read it. Thesteamer
in which I sail, and t have ILdaI  euid
naypaseaga, l11each N   Te* b'kWeen
tist     i fiftl   yf ffMaclA. E is duo
titeinitlie~tfth  It laay not arrive u ixi
the eighth or tenth.'
'tliepausedandlodkdu'a .
tlinea ei there knisdive; 4vit~ hs baik
ela itre6typed di     of diA- unified
tention pervading his features..
A  littib further oni he ays, 'have just
received from Messrs. Bullion, 4na1 ' oI ,
mb iuk'ert here, a letter6f ii-trbdeblfA 1o
3ft. deroineNal, with ivbtl thd1e-

Ceds of my Austfaltan campaign. Part of
ii I'ave cuverte'd into  od s uAtles. I
cokid'bik thdhere, itjo0k      w   al-
ways had o queer idea--like to b. odd-of
being d4erent freiiu b r   opi .     ,
remember, IWil be hd$m  e  en the fifth
and tefniid fs 4f   , be'ded, bronzed,
and with ple ,ty pf hblth,sovie ',veaith, apd
a million eli  lov I4ve for, you all."
She &amp;olded" the ler .lowy, then. ,sked
"Do Y r%&amp;;oprehend "
"Iealy,* said Duval,. '. do not.
what way can I assist you?"
" I shula have given you my name  It
is Lousbe dtainor."
"Ah 1" rdlanda the ban lei'. ilis apa-
thy had vanished.
"tour brother's name is ROeOtTraiaQr,"
he added.
fes- es-Pbor Rhei.t' W lat can have
beconie of hiim!  ui'ei surely, something
dreadful has heppened'to i'hr. Listn, pir.
Tlibsteanel in 'whidh h 'tailed 'i-rived here
o'the onin bf the t  of Mtrch,  fy
,idiltnd Alid&amp;"astbii, With nlyelf, Worq
:atth 6 "Olbeq 4Aih -,A iliriA  I to gr~et-ift.,
IH sWadsrwd t~si~e.  liadlaft' the steainier
inlh faany'"Niafied.-  e16aeinelis
hit b  ija *a d6l1tid, but th t' he h'
ggiVen'oidns if t Stb'eit "  the  ie.
Wehdst eud  il hoi'e, thirki heianight
thjbdois thithliel'at 'ob  In his'inxiety to
see onceabki thoe ~d;orlieid, aid 4'
vh~nhea8 ed diarlyIosbd."~
JerorAe :val in~gted, her. "Well,
wei. aad thatwhici has ause1 yoi all so
muph troul is his .sadde  ; isppvpen
from th staer ad his non-ap    rancor
-me    fon                   a et
teker until'6W we ave heard no trace of
"4  a aVydli rtaide the fefaci  pwn to the
Police authorities" I
" Not yet, for eadh day wdh6jed he m ght
pear and s6, day'afia daythe time passed,
hen, this to gn it"oeehrr 't' n1 ih1t
th9gh "fdu,' r 4   No    , did  wie igT
ia~hid      chW uldakiideto tie sold'i6o
'o                    at    46 xe '4r,

I

i-

18                BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.


BEWETEN TgIE CRUSTS..

V
I!

BETWEEN T

Miss Trainor," said Duval, leaning back in  hour.of agong.. "Then, on the fourteenth,
his capacious office chair, and speaking with just before the closing hour, hep gi, pre-
a calmness which to her seemed heartless in. seated hinelf and withdrew twenty thon
difference.                             sand dollars. Since thei I have, not seen
How little her inexperience fathomed the him."
depths of his thought.                    "Oh, sir, there is something in this .more
"You would have saved yourself much thaf you tell me. Ah I I know now." She
of anxiety and care," he aded.        arose, and every feature betrayed the ter -
"You-you know then," she exclainmed   ble agony which the thought gave her. "It
eagerly and starting forward., "You, have was not Robert Trainor whom you saw. It
6een him  since. ,Yet that cannot pe, My was sonjie miscreant who has by sonve aend-
brother wold have been home, homne with ish. trick lured him away, mrdered him,
us. No, no----"                        and then, finding that letter upon him,.has
"Do not unnecessarily agitate yourself," come here, assumed his name and deceived
Interrupted Duval: "Listen. Your brother you. I see it all now-all-all."
must certainly be alive, well, and from ap-  "You are mistaken," said Duval, coldly,
pearances, is likely to remain so,"  .  as if by his own calmness to .quiet heir.
"Go on. I-I will not lose a word. Then  "If your other had been decoyed of
you have seen him. Go on."              after leaving the steamer, and murdered,.
"On $he fifth day of March," be spoke in would not the murderer have preferred
calm, metallic, business tone, and referred to taking the money and valuables from his
a memoranda which he drew from a drawer person, and then have disappeared? Your
in his desk, '  ateleveno'clock a gentleman' supposition is not at all probable."
came here, gave his nanIe as Robert Trauor, "Did you see Robert Trainor each time
and presented a letter of introduction fr  he came here, after presenting the letter
Messrs. Bullion, Bond &amp;,Co., 9fbaodqn, apd from the London bankers?"
whose agent I ai., Mr. Traipr then;after  "No, but my cashpr did. Mr. ,KramP
somp general conversation relating to 'Anan-. never malkes anerror in business."
cial matters, Oeposited with me seventy-nfve  "Will-you--willgou be kind enough
thousand dollars in s9quritie. andoe   to call him?"
for, as he expressed himself, 'temporary safe-  "To satisfy you-yes."
ty.' Mr. Kramp, my cashier, -gave him a   The banker touched a small table bell.
certifcate of deposit for that apgount.   One of the house messengers answered.
"Here, and not come near hA home! it.
Impossible 1" cried Miss Trainor.,        "Tell Mr. Kramp I want him."
"I beg youtx paedon," paid tbaval, with bMr. Kramp twisted hiu1self and glinted,
frigid dignity, "the name of Jerome Duval his one eye froM the banker to the Yistor,
has never been associated *ith falsehood."  and stood waitmg.
"No; I did rot mean to offend. Great    "Mr. Eramp, you remember the appear-
HeavenI thp mystery is darker than ever. ance of the person claiming tobe Robert
Every effort, every step seems to lead farther Trainor, who made a heavy deposit ont1e
and farther away from hope." She paused, fifth of March?"   -
then suddenly asked: "Has-has he been    "Yes," rasped thse cashier; "the frst
here since I"                           time he came I was at lunh; the second
" Yes," Duval answered,               time, however, and the third timeI saw
"YesI " she repeated eagerly.          "-'
"Five days after-on the tenth," said Du- "You saw him twice, then?" Miss
val with a slow mathematipal exactitude, Traior s d.
torturing to ehi listener.  He previogsjy  9 Yes,madame,?' answered Kramp, with
withdrew ve'thousand dollars."  Every   . vai effWrt to grate. his tone. down ,tw
momentary pause he made seemed to her an something less coarse than his usual'rasp

"Dbscribe how he loked If
1 can ~-tell You tist, Miss Traior," I
said Tiival.' ' Aiid I  dI so. "
"It is stranger than eve. The descrip-
tion is 'the deeription of my  i-rotYer--
height, manner, face-as I remember him,
icept the beard
"Yod'fuiy go, Mr. Eirmp," said DSgaI.
Kramp twisted his one eye, then twisted
himself out of their pesexeie.
"Excjt tie beard," siJuval.  W1,
that, you Lnow, in his long aserce, may
 have gr6wii, even as his'fice,' fair when he
left, might become dark and bronzed jW
travel and exposure."
"When he-this-Oh! sir, I hnnot cal
him my brother,'for something tellne--I
feel my own knowledge di my rotlhir's
action for his mother, for me, tells me-
his letter f'll me that this man whon
you have'seen, despite te likene   y
description bears to -dn1 cannot be my
brother. When he comes againcould you
not detain him by some pretext untilword
is §ent me, and'o 'enble me to see
Until I do see him, face to face,    nilln t
V.9    believe he is my brother."
"Miss Trainor," began Duval.
At this instant, 04. Krabn  entered.
"Well," said Duval.
"The gentleman you are speaking of is
in thd binic-at tl chaiiter."
Miss Trainor uttered a dry, and sprang
toward the door.
The cashier intercepted her, while Du-
val placed his hand upon her aiin.
"You shallsee him, but not'in that wy.
It wotild create a scene; i e patiert  o
meant " Duval spoke firily. He led 'he
back froin the door,
"-Mr. Kramp, infdrin Mt; Trainor that I
would like tb see Iim a idfimenth
The esiier'Petired  Tlidsrt of center
tainment- in the private officed of Jef'om
Duval was a novel deditio to the uua
routitie of banking. '
A moment 'after,- the ddor was tilron
back 'and the ma-h6 called himhee
Robert Triinor clad in thyheight df atld
his hat in hingloved hand, stood upon
threshold.

HE CRUSTS                           21
For ainoment hadthey illbeen statues
they could ot have been more fixed. Be-
hi4 h bnllamed thi e6  solitary eye of
the cashir.
You 7wqs to see me, Mr. Duyl1 " said
theman.   I"-.  .I., 1   H
Mise Trainor confronted him.
One glance, one quick, wild glance at
him was sufficient.
" Thpt is ot, my brother!" she half
shrieked, pcisuing her fmger at him,
"Now, I know my brother, is dead, and
there standshis. murderer!"
Asif she had suddenly become crazed,
she rushed at th nan.
Bat her hands only desperately clutched
tl  ungaily fom, of the cashier, for the
,, ofher wild depiunciatiog $ied past
Mr. Kramp and wsp gone.
Terrible oats was the only utterance
rom    19ps 3hich fell upon the hearing
of Mr., Kramp.,
,p1l7j   s starled t the, result, but he
did iet Jose sight pf the dignity of his
position.ha
Aided by the cashier, he assisted the
half-exhaxsteii girl go a chair.
A glass of wine as offered her, but she
pushed it away. She slowy recovered.
" My carrage is at the door. I-I. am
stronger now. That miscreant! Oh ! how
could any one mistake him for my brothers
You, see, Mr. Duval, I knew he could not
be Robert. Why di4 not somo one follow
h Why di4"Tou not seize him ?His
"    look w4s guiltI"
"Calm yourself," said the banker, his
mind, notithstanding, thq   excitement
r around liim never losing thought of what in
his hard belief was the motive of all hu.
man passion; "he has drawp pnly twenty
five thousand dliars; there is yet left fifty
- thousand "
S    "What is that to meI It is my brother I
l want, Ioney I million times the amount
is as'noth ig-compared to one moment of
his precious life to us; I would give it all-
f yes even my 'own lifefdia clue which would
, liJd me out of this dark matery I O, why
dii we'hotreach the pier h6ursooner and so
have stood between him and his doon.''

'a.

20


I

BKT,,WEN THE CI4USTS.

"If he has, been. foully, dealt with his
murderer will doubtless be cau"
"Doubtle /" cried the girl fiercely, with
flashing eyes. "DOUBTLkss! He will be
caught! That wap his murderer, and  .1 11aI
not forget his face. Henceforth there is no
rest for me until my brother's death is aveng-
ed by bringing to justice. the man who but
now stood there, smiling upon the threshold
of that doorI"
" In every possible way I will assist you,"
interrupted the banker. "I have been de-
ceived. He has wronged me."
" Wronged you-you out of a few paltry
dollars! Compare that wrong to mine."
"Really, Miss Trainor!"
"Never mind, I came here with .a hope-
faint it is true, that I might be able on my
return hone to bear back to my 'mother
words of cheer concerning Robert's fate;
but I take to her, instead, only ain assur-
ance that our worst fears are realized, and
return to a home that henceforth will be
shadowed with such sorrow as only the
heart of bereaved nidthercan feel. Should
we desire your assistance I will inform you
of It."
Her calmness, suddenly following her
outburst of passion,'so surprised the banker
that he could ontly bow in reply.'
Drawing the veil over her, fade she passed
from the banker's presence,
Mr. Kramnp followed her, closing'the door
behind him.
Jerome Duval was alone.
"So, by this's scoundrel I have been de-
frauded out of twenty-five thousand dollars,
and that girl thinks nothing of it. A woman
is an enigma; no! -she is the epitome of
willful blind stubbornness; my first step in
this affair shall be to put the facts in pos-
session of 9 detective. I will not consult
her-she w6uld muss the whole of it by her
folly."  He touched the bell.
A messenger entered, the banker penned
a note, enclosed it in an envelope, and direct-
ed it.
"Go at once to the police headquarters,
deliver this note, and bring me an answer.
You need not mention the object of your
errand to any one."

Half an hour.latpr the answer came.,
"At ten to-znoromvr Yery wgl. This rnan
who has personated ,bert 'Treinor,,[ anm
convinced is-not tle murderer of this miss-
ing brother, there isnogethan one coneep-
ed in it.'
His meditation was interrupted by the
entrance of Mr. Kramp with a letter,
"What is thisI"
"A boy brought it; wants a answer,"
grunted the Cashier. The bankei opene4tit.
"Ah, frdus Rogers."'
'Kramp,.does the house owe Rogers any-
thing ifn
"    'sir;h he drew his month's salary iz
December, when hq wis taken'sick."
"He has been with the house how long?"
"Sevep years."
"Then he should have saved enough to
keep himin his sickness without writing me
a begging note for a few dollars. He has
no business to have a large family. Mr.
Xrhnp tell tlie 'boy there .is no answer."
leie, let him have the note back."  Mr.
Krainp took the inissive.
'Ie delivered the message" no answer," to
the boy, but the note he retained and placed
in his pocket.
 CHAPTBR X
' TEN MINUTES FOR REFRESHMENT"-THI
SHORTENING TH4T GIVES CRISPNESS
TO THE CRUSTS.
As the characters of, this story hltve
come upon the stage, each in his own
proper time and in hsW rightful place, and
playedgia or her part, it will be seen that
whatever their outward show of virtue, of
truth or goodness, or whatever of vicious
intent they may have betrayed, the real
motive whichactuated the1p was that
one grand incentivetq all human endeavor
from youth to age-Nelf-Interest.
Sugar-coatit asyouwill; call it goodness,
honor, virtue, piety, charity, or any of the
fine titles with which men and women
cloak their petty meanness,'their greed,,
their falsehoods, anl ,their social short-
comings-still when the end is come, when
the curtain falls upon the last act, the fine.

22

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.
mattle) *ith its paigles itft tinsel ftri&amp;i.Y outer world, a
anihgs and je#WIgs,4diaps ofiV and thei likeh uponveauhot
:a grinning skeleton is revealedithe reality notI
-ak, eidiess.                        Hordieomc
George 3aig, devha down atej by    fae.woman
step to-thelowest degteof povertqand, ridof selfib
his vife dying of staivatiotiin that *mi1" botheery di
erablb baoindt6b ild* i.elthave 1iieo whose voice
vented herdeith by iaking;daysbei      therdwhWtb
an --e*pose 6f shdreunditide'#tot h6  wearan,d6verd4
first policeman he might have enMettte  dollars a year
and o l-hd her reMbedt te ibahtrnse  ' nIMylidyyth
Heibldd have db  tbisu-n thbibet thanlfer 'thi
tweeriwhadI~f I4 ; and hunabiauithege5W  muried  dly
sessed stood u taiatIElfishVride4bie un* ft 'iet5ie
yielding jailer,of his" fl *hichh61dhim  ha'sefibO
back.       -                          She is jehlv
Ydu find him   tripidg    hhlle-s," vodie'ff
tenselesa vieti-ot a "i-dnightressaAt 4f Whouibewtnh
his Moneynd'vanables, it thvetvery res" 'other  iher
ence -of his 'dead Mwii; instead   of seeking ul(eing
at on&amp; for idto r4tot6ha'to' life.   thev6t a atlU
- Self-aelf again-roisingiinlim'the doj. mean work
mant thirst for revenge upon Jerome:Du. to 'udIu iidtC
tal, a desire once more to-regaig witldut  Yea!rJe
regard to thenmdansbiis'forn deposition: iniby'theo light'
that society whichthis oncebitt&amp;eiebe-sging'it Usno
rience had taught him was aholtdw'nock- IfKth'idIsgd
ery. Selidhness thatithrilledhimiandurged  of eifinhhei
him on with a power beyond resistance to  so with ti
the, accomplishbient.of its-npfrpose, ahd fbi' rrifrsslin
lat6r, only say later, *  ifindi him'with posfiblye-to t
hia' hoihe in'a, hotell ide the : maniefof nedssin itidiJ
Robert Glenham, where 'the, priceshwdre selllslines an
equal tothe ambitiouspreteneehani empty dinlkr vfitub
show  of its occupants.  We find him   slop lcdfte h I
there beginning 'his new scAreer' -pon  ing; hunumit
the ill-gotten gains of hief robbery-;--plot- stations-let
ting, planning, and scheming'for -What? and see if in
The future victories of bisSblfshdiessx  ' upon'ti&amp;bv
. You find! Mr.; Clutchituin 1hi'4 loWer fully and w
sphere of action-and'his, wife Manmc devoldoef a
Gi-ingo, -givigl exercise to that njotr altoi. FPsrlhaps we
gether-'untonlmon selfishmss whibh'lis Miss   triOh
born of a desire to live upourtheotedulity  biother-Loir
of that portion of mankind-havihg selfish Abeldi Xamni
longing to ktiothe fature'of't their lives;  Perhhps
and you lindiClutchit 'hi' rn tPbeenlating ""d
upon th'4 ennrfddziee of hisvife,iatidhis
wife usighlm'as a tool to further -her OWh
' designs; the two combining against the

23
nd atthe sane time preying
herb Aifine couple,Iare they
4the wife 'ofs another thigh-
hness4+areterend gdntlemaa
igdtible'ysanielof Pawridge,
is fort'lov  to aW astvho 'is
IulI Motobe iAn apottQ, and
Oatrof love-for tenAthousand
e4te4re. Pawrdgef oldes
nAterisl hugh ndt lion -h '
   tth re "throitghi#o'aehing'h1iv
(e~idnl oquei'ttngie Into'
ik Might) "get int&amp;'0 oety."
4ffi hh i&amp;s atigonumoh diab
the'rttiutimigs oiher lo V',
etinhi dninksn orgies} to
and bonupels into.l1 service
oracular Chitchit to do'such'
as her jealousy may conttive:
nd. -           7.A4
rose Drvalj therbankeri andf
Tenfeeted'ftom hids urround&amp;
difficult task to benetiate his
ise6asdlearnlWhat a 'mass
Lidrief'pause sof 'Mten min'utea
aenUit  d '-.no r ore' palatable
hese'who'.show thdir selfish"
0A thetmselatiB upon their Ri4
adFgpossssion of al lithe oar.
s, thnt,'ard the stale pies,
nd'bhlletidakes, which travel;
tr iswillows at ithe, railway
usaigain resume:the'I play,
'all the belnga whomay crowd
agewo tan find one sofear-
vonderfully created as to -be'
ny iuchl thing %Aselsn6s.
may fd much an saomaly in
' in her search for herimissing
in the honiely .phyax, :Mt.
P,
-

I7

:


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

CHAPTER XI.
I. . CLVTCHiT , BnCO*Es  NiMATEUR
3PETE0TIVB 4Pt BIEHALk O U 3k.dBAWIM' -
RIDGE.
Mas PAwatDUiminhbrnsonstruetionif
her reverend husbands&amp; renerrneen.ng:.
Edith, and facing himat thatihour oftlhi
evening in'his libraryediltpO matter:jof
aggravation, nbthigbxnbre.-  :vyo
Her jealousy t did.aotosadpectyhinhofan
unnecessary fondnes for' thenbanker7s-
daughter in particular.
t is aadthb1e fast thesMO jealo eWOmn
husband' 4erelictiqaqg upoThp O me41X:
with whom-h 1%ay-be quaI teL q.uieetl
in the dailyrontine ofhusines.   .
So, therefbre,,ppna generalpipiples
she felt it to be her duty, to .thraw. ut, a
hint of-her sdistrast upon All pqgebiopae -
sions, andoiby way ofgii    little
rest as )ssible,,she rarely1etsiptb oppwr
She knew he was vain, and, thata den 4o
livering/a adran Uhis aiundwasequay.ras
mneh oceupiAd asto ithe.eondiion ofUM
fascinating whiskers,i the edt of, his iirre
proachablewhiteacktie or 4be exquisite
fit of his coat and the pat inishair, asgit
wasin the-edheideratifai-his text*: 0-
In pursuanceeof the-hAbitof jeaousy -i
usually selettingthe *rong objectupon
which to 'vent sits wrathij ii. Pawtidge
gave all thewomen',old aqdlyoungf this
congregation the benefit6ft a doubt while
there was one on twhanihb had settled4er
survemlanca with-an Absolute; oenvic4on
that @he was upon the rightrtrail. .
That one was LouideTraluor;
And withwhat cause, we shaW know
hereafter. i   -1:                A
And what she considered a waster stroke
of etmning, in order to  ore-,effectually
prove, the correctness of .her. suspicion;
she rarely alluded to that young lady ia
his presence. But she had determined to
fmnd him out by another method. She
would put a spy,-an--amateur detectiv
upon his track, one who being in her power
would not dare betray her purpose.

I

So having fixed upon the Clutchits as
available, she proceeded At once  t secure
them, first usiPg Mr CJIntciW in the usi
less Oespieage., 
On the afternoon of the day .fllowing.
the Inight in bwieh the rveyexed ,gnat1;e-
iaUgas combinghiA whisaerndrehears-
ing; his egro, in bis , tudy,'   r
pawidge,.:seated int-ylo ', andtliapa-
tipatiy passing the time away over a bit of
a        j Clutchit. appeared,. aue to hi,
appoiiniment.
; 1e hd. caed up.th seediness of his
plothing,.xith sueh desperate usQ of te
poiig.side of a blacking brush at home,
hWd swed bit of black d49th on, or inked
 istpeingqso that the going cracks in
his well-worn shoes were scarcely visible,
 and haddebtked tho tobaqc-staips upon
1his shirt boson so;t4hat he was quite a fair
specimen of)tat a.mournfully-interesting
tribe. of mysterious vrants, T!1 gentlemen
who hav swenbetterdays,?' but hadpos-
.sibly passbdAthem,:by without,, an intro-
duetion       :     ,       .
Thuk with arswaggerwith something of
defereile it, a swagger intendedto con-
ceal hisfeatrefthe viuadgakrteedwoman,he
presented himself.
$herasted no time in givinghiiiin4
struetions. n o AI
To his, intense chagrin,-4hpwever, ,he
received, no invitation to ipartake (of a
luncheon,.ofwhioh cpurtesy:he lhad, entered
tainedaepeptations.    .     :      I
Quietly Ahe addressed -him, nibbling at
her'cakethe while      ,
" "I wish:you to follow. -him as I have
directed your and only upon those occat
sions," werq her concluding. words, she
eyeing hinm4losely and he, eyeing the bill
of fare with which.his fingers were toyitg.
"You.ca :dome to imy residence at -any
time, and letsmeknow *hattyou have dis*
cenvred., Your reward'willberamplO. .,As
younowknow who -otm I neednotremind
you that auy' whisperiof betrayal of
my, confidence f will result .in trouble to
e yourself,, the future of, which the mere
r mention of, that iAAumqd eross1wil readily
suggest. When you come to my. residence

- 7,

4I1 WIS HYOU TO FOLLOW H]IM As I HAVE DIRECTED.
(See page 24.)

24A


BETWEEN, THfE CRUSTS..2

ripj t1e :b  i.l e[,, giveyp grnajiO7
and in T5rt9te5vi'
six~p~y~sayq~z,  ,. i n Apoy,at the
Y, ve~ .t e   e2,111e.S 1pesf,I ej
Beer ,d t je ktri tiou 'Of 'Uwts o   8141M,949

ti
j1

e fpot3dy 4kod in their pwsdso4 -P4tonl
18 lr  il

Some further in wstruegid. were given
aixd Mr. Clutobit, departed, ptther in(Yte
ai~til4Atn he ipame, inasmuch as~r.he'held'
within is otton, gov'e a. tipdollar,lbill-
£for expenses."~   .I I1
-Mot pyskianis talk ad tlley m''of the
effloacy o  ieur   't   it  'st1 gth-
ener of the system-itis recuperative etwts
am weak eokxparelt~thbse of a. t6-i do1ir
billion Ia, - wi j Ithe 4lst etttg6ab
holpOve rty.
of so much money, offered to~ snetatk li
ib 'footstlpso, -a iilmin obfAeiie
+j   Just as he left Mrs. Pawridge  e  e1
taidt6*sp~f         eO   r o§ near
breadth 'Itli6 &amp;~1W ould ji-inxu
but nmay I ask you , n, 0' ...t
wholly deWtl                    S&amp;'
may    y~'aski  y     ou- h  "~Lor I aeqn
ha Yg6e11    1~1h~     ~
she replied coldly.,
is onq of
the-the best of womqu.-as. a  1&amp;bt
she is so economical,~aA,.1
"T~ey'e o~ qjarty," ~  huh~
Die~~tY" rA "   y nc etff     rd
In a wino mf
,                      IIV-  +  1
r' That's A 'e,  Fan -I    tak,'a
paid for, iN.Uli th#t whp  lfloftyhteur
T   Mr. Culcits fla4ilk      #o7Q4il thse,
rare momeit,kvl~pnthey 14app Ai to un.

j

SAT164*rWH1CH, DIITURUS TIIZ  iflMf-
Tmre    en    f ebneDuval, inte
hv~fue? was 14.. outward. a ppeArance and
nitf iterior decorations merely  ~pi
kAe'Of scores of 6t~rIX h-stoov brqwn -
~tone, mansiardroo&amp;A1 hom es of the m~
niates of.- Wevlth whio~x. Inug  h' Qoe
s6hlfA1''4d.rtie    itqougbfare   of,
the city.
Hereinthelaf L~f~
Geor &amp;y  ohaft 31:,'iht uponwhich
P                6)0  ID:l~ha  fled
awayfiom    *e.miuserable    in Bell
stroe -y i 1 ' uva in a fittmq 14"oPm .of
hib' tolk  weasenoyiikg t he idlort  an,
eAq ch~ir iqnd g1anepog vr  the CO)upw7
90pqatnracite in the  grate
lifr.hmgave a~rosy .6in, eto'his broad,
fulliface.   i1sth eqie seelv d  nt
whos  eiquanbiA yof imexo7"1 O     O
distured by       iky  a o1
fortune which might com~ p i~i
I P4~9~1P~ 4  ~     /.Is ,~~'ra .. L
pg    ht. tl~e, fiNf-xnoqn bald-,
had been ail uniinterrupted roundly of Yap-7,
Within hisjeaph t   oe-a     a~
,q,W4l~f t1we  a .1?4p  kb?,appi
while ~ 14          W)r A~p,te widows,
pod a cpy of ei eveUP, tpbroga 'Wth

25,


  BETEWEN TIP RUST2

old-sard this he had' ,urfLded and'was
glancing over its columns.
As a rule, Jerome-paid little attention
to any other contents of the daily journal
than that relatifig tomatters finance.
Evideotly as yet lbe, had notrigad any-n
thingdI i er paper toarouserhisdterest.
Presently he uttered .w exclapition--
"Ah I" Theu he gave .the paper an extra
fold, rearranged :lhi    rimm d "eye
gla'aes, aid'settleeI himselfback if te'
chair to enjoy the   e itdrii1 repast
which haA so suddeiily "at 'ted his at-
tention.
"  h!1thougi o.e   ilpikBe r'
without its awful suidde, a hor e IAI
der, would  a a curiosity."
']g as he read  isf A1Anged.
The expression otcan content vanishe4
aud gave p     tpo one~ o terrible i p
His hauls trembId; this lips   e  al
most livid, and he seemed to stru  for
breath.
IIALtiastL.-at la *" hegat ed, whIle ou
upon the distortioix of  Aee he    at
drops of perspiration' stood "like
He attexit'd torise.
At this moment the door leading m o
the 'wide hal opened and a servaout en-
tered.
Mr. buval
N6 "Ply came, and hi~ servant repeated
the call.  till the old &amp;a11made 16 r ei
upons6. Thi servant dA  fAitherhtd the
room. One lance at theconvuledk
tures,'at the hands l chihng'ihd tii'v'erltn
while they grasped the paper 'was siffl2
cient.               --
With a cry of affright he rushed front
the room and ga'e the ahirm
Then a 'few- servants, the bontudewrid;
followed by Edith Duval and her mother,
came hurriedly In answer to the wild
summonsahich had echoed 'thugh 'the
passages of the niangion like-A kieil.
Jerome Dayal had notthangd his a681
tion. His hand 6till cleihei thefajte bid
but from his fade every trace of Cor a
fied. Itwas as white "s the marble to f f
the table near hIm.
"Jer6me--Jerome I "l shrieked his wife,

"sgik to 'inelepeak to e.t ieha Is
theiattei ?'8j0a1% M4t'&amp;I2liice ,
vaitk ~'h'ic~e hidoi4'tgettielhelg-
1esfylookinton; 'Vohit 'g'ydh fot dhe'
4octor-quick-quick."'
' Doetor 'Addupp'ma'ai ?:"
'esoihly .beswift.   It, i t41if 'or
leith I "'and iasthe mksenger 1eft4 Edith
brewhverself np on herInees beside her
father...;
" Father, father, lok- ap  ;Wa p re
Eere, mnother~ ud 4"'#h0 wmlaimied pik'
The, bie Lips parted as.if Atrying -to
aTticulate, ihOefeye wJhish  adbee
Staring vacant and expressionlessthrough
tIge glasaIpyg slightly* The]ips wepe
parcheq,      I               'S,, ,'
"Water-it M   ate  be wants " cried,
Mrs. Duval,
The house-maid brougt it, apd Edith
applied it to Mai  Jvp    the of rt.
 hea7 tin the halls ton, a ighter
one i teO,?om-p.an d Doctor Addng caul,
upqn the sene.
ow    g hqs he benii  this con
iitii "                    ,ierethe i  , glarqing
ao u      or au answer as he pa'ed him-
se  in fr6nt 'ofthe. r eke'i man, and
b6ndingover, 99sened one of his'hands
From i gtsas upon thepaper, "' Can you
teii me, Mrs.  va  '     ~.,
"I do no knw. John gave the alw!,W
Th e Vysician interre d.
-mustb epaed ina reclining posi-
tion-there upon ihIt sofa'wiii do. Rest
etyie. Dibal, I tasit ls nbthig se.
rioill, 14ispualseiskelej lit-u-there
is 11 dailgeY  Sh  otof the spani is.
over.     tid a dativewill boon bring
abontt h1opetatiiT''is evidditiy a
mentalrather than a physical disturbance."
SWith the assista e of theservaitAs the
old man was lifted from the chair 'to the
sr;      , pspti  was  itten, thei'sed-
atife ioeure'd ,nd adinini t rM  Slo0wly
he retutrned to a vague enscousilee.' Tha
physictinreiine'd nti aill  syall ing df
a ttuinof: the Paroxam had yIised an

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

then giving a few simple directions as to       CHAPTER X      -II.
treatment, departed, leaving the iiiother!  A  ZEVELAT1ON TOF:HE MISERY Io
and daughter aloue,twatohing, beside the   :E
Meanwhile thbpapr w~hihe, had been  Ta gray, clouds which nearly all day
eanle her aperhih p hehadbee~n haA htng heavy atid'sainbre over th6 city,
reading lay crumpledttha pArtig tornupdn  rebe g a ehig 'g, wr belNn
thecarpet where it had beeii thrown 'by away P a   istpsays  wee reing
r.  IdtIuI.!away, and the lastua fthe setting sun,
SloD Y,A very sduw. 1heamn to;sowl'gleamed in upon them with a lurid glory.
thefloy,  ferylyhe a pton o sl   It was the light by wlich thot fair young
the fullround facerdgahied a portiei of he . st learned x ha  eeolhy
natural celor, Ihe.pallidlips their foirhetiO  W* arh
hue.. Slowly the strong vacat'starelf thei h  s ci  fad vti hre.,Saii whred
eyes gave place to; the gleam of inteli-s had surrounded her, even there, where
gence. At last, looing!at Edith and her she had thought or known of nothing but
mother as it he, hd ut~sakendIfrodn,' gtdhiteis iI Vitye'I
adjusawenef          ' She kdw t46t her mother was proud,
sonyefea.rful Pdreamphe mnurrdtihalow  that her fath&amp;ht tibies was arrogant, im-
weak tonr "Tby 'axe-theye ae bothe perious and stubborn, of purposeandthat,
4ead 1" ulike heriself,"th4y tegded Wealth' and
'"Deadyf ather '" said Edith, takinghis po'ntion beyond6Ali other earthly consider-
hand, "who. is dead? 'What has bright' ations; yet she also knew that to her and
thisupon you "                       with her the'i kindliudls and indulgence
" We thoughtyou were'dying,"Aidfrs. aggdached-the intensity 6aiddlatry.
Duval.                                 "So, theft 6 )th'the sunlight glintintgupon
Jerome closed his eyes a momient,'*theii her  1ossy hal isnfifglancing ltan1 ihto the
looking around nlitrmuredin the sadiie 16tw shadioWA f tliitoobi,'Edith? ltile dreamnig
feeble tone, "'Dead-both gone9 'dh I  of d, Wful!inpori of the' coning revela.
is not so--it ifsolya dre. If it were o tin, yet nervous with the exciteifrent of
you would iot lodk so ebn I n        expectation, fixed her attention upon the
"Of rhom are you  'k''  taleI" paper.
seadai!iReawhat
asked Edith, bendng'er face nearer te  Read it I Read what?
his.*       -                           Edith felt ;ier'aothers hand tremble as
-it iA ted u da ijhei- shoullde-
"The-the paper --oh 4ead -24                    ell i  tn thetheadiegs--
paper." As be spoke he slowly turned hie
head so that his glance rested, upo  tho  , A   1HRn  M8st1RY',-- MURDER; A14D
chair where he had been sitting'.i        D  Ir erI S4invAfro +Tau Rucoo-
Mrs. Duval, understood hi meaningg  i''     r   Ty Yuicorms I--WoRK FOR
She took the paper from the iloor Tnd     THE DETECTIVS IV
brought it to hinsS                          a
"Not not" he oriedwithtan expression  11crfathrlaypassive.
of pain-as if straggling to overcome theIRead crg, read onI " he said brokenly.
feeling. it Yes, yes, read'ift." ' And'ithen  SoPsheIe)tinued':?
as they stood beside him-the sofa: being
near the heavily curtained lbay-indow-  "'T*ps Morningabout pipp o'lock(l-
Edith, with her mother's jeweled hand cir Mole was informed b  a tenant of  e
I rmise$''that anaa, afid w oinan were
resting upon her shoulder,; unfolded. the, p ei  the a r of  woeao ere
,lying dead in the cellar of One 'of thettn-!
paper.                                b-dow   tenements in Pell streets ,Pro-
"Push back the ,utains"said, J     ee ding to .the lace, oIcer ?pd a
siene. larger eowd coiected. Forcing his way
"See, the sunlight is coming aginI There, through it, he descended the 'broken steps
that will do."                        and entered the loathsome death.-trap. At

:1l

2'

27


28

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

ghastly spectacle met. his gate. Near the
centre of the floor lay the body of a man
not over thirty-five years of age; the cloth-
ing stripped from .him, the back of the
head crushed in, and the face so horribly
mutilated and eathd away by the rats thit
recognition seemed. M  osible. Inta far
corner, aially ~   covered with fragments of
old clothing andtagsiwasthe sielton -like
corpse of a woman; evidently the iotim' of
starvation."
Again she p*uled.
Her father hAd partly arisen to, a relina
ing position, With'his-headrestink upon his
hand. ' ' 0
" Go on, Edith; it doga    aur  rn
now. I am listening cal y-- a see-
quite palmly." But the $rempr of his voica
belied i asrto
Stil) Edth, could not, qonpre4nd ,1 y
this narrative should hsvq o strangely,
affected him.
The sunlight no longerrested upon
While the distant roofs an4 steeples of e
tall buildings beyop4 wee, still bathed in
crimson hues and the lfting  pdo were.
slowly melting intq the  g e ee  oun.
set, the lig tha&amp; lifted  pm the99q apd
the shadow of twilight wepl9ing about'
them.
Edith continued reading by the gradually
lessening light.   -   7.
"'The owner and landlord of, the
wretched tenement was present, pum
moned, an4 when'he came 'he alone of 411
the neighborhood seenied to have'O' ty
knowledge of the occupants of the cellar.
Notwithstanding -the frightful mutilation'
of the bodies he at once identified theip as
the remains of the late tenant and his wife,
and who had given'his'iame as George Jaf'
fray when he rented.!n1
She read no further, for when sle pro-
nounced the name of GeorgeJafray,ber
mother uttered a.low sharp cry as;of pain,
and the jeweled hand :loosened its clasp
upon her shoulder.I
She staggeiedback fioumr Edith,"rasping
for support as 4he didso at th# folds,'fth
window drapery.
Edith caughta her tik her arms not a mo-'
ment too soon to save her frogn falling,.and
as she partly recovered. from the shock
Placed her in the easy chair.

"See, did I not saysof Both dead, both
dead 1 "'cried her father.
"Mother, fgtlir," exclaimed Edith in
bewilderment, what fearful mystery is this,
you frighten'me so--L--.- "'
"4I told him," "sAidDuvallalmost rising',
as he uttered the :words, 'I told him I
would live to see him die a dog's death.
He denied me, and-now he lies there,.stark
'adicold. Wife; did I not tell you ten
years ago? Down,; down, year after year,
into the dregs! Aha 1 Jerome Duval's curse
followed him to the bitter end."
'Abdshe is dead, too I dead!-Oh Jerome,
why id she-not let us-knoew' Starving,'
dyingalone, fiendless6'T Suddenly, as if a-
demon ,had possessed ber, shesitarted up
from the chair and confronted her husband.
_No weakness vow., Edith, appalled -at
e sItnge scene,jooked on insilence.
To her the mystery was inexplicable.
,'re  val, henceforth the! spectre
of that murdered child will haunt you.-
ypp yoi pre her murderer.t You cast her
S        in your pri4e disowned her;'
a d,: odbelpinp;--you made me forget all,
the g       letter;  ipcg of my nature aud join,
in this infainy., .jt1yoi sol now, in the.
,presepceof this dear innocent from whom
through thIs' weary bitter years we have,
.c6nc'ted'the bkiowedge of my sacrifice,
of our crime ! I can bear much, have borne
mtlah. 'I hkve worn smilesiwhen my heart
Oxhed' 1 Ah L: 1i1hatv6~eA h   p ni'- 'art u-ell'
hav'e 1 not
"Be quiet, woman. She was 'disobedient.
she was ' cried Duvithbarlely, hib fae
again' paing,- but"this time with sup-
pressed anger.  Edith had'mot 'stirred
while hermother spoke, she"deemed like
one stupifted. But at. the sound of her'
:father's voic .shd started. . Until then he
seemed to have forgdtten her presence, for'
he turned,towird hr:
" 1ditli,' this Is no f ace for you; leave'
th4-room.."' To her his tone wds one rather
of entreaty than command.
-" Shehall not leave the rbom'" exclaim-
ed the mother,i" She'might as well know'
what she ought to have known long ago.

U)

It would have been better for hefi pace
of mind ; better for all of us. Edith!I"
"1 will go, mother; ydir can'tell me this
dreadful mystery some other time. I-
"N, remain," -said the in&amp;ither, ' and
learn how pride, the pride of wealth, holbt
low, empty, arrogant pride destroy itswfwn
worshipers. This wich you have read in
that paper is henceforth apart of our family
history. George Jaffray was the husband
of your sister Mary.,.
"Sister" lPnrmured Edith, "1my sister
-you told me sho was dead; that she died
while-"
4 Twelve years ago, youwere but a,child
thep, your siste; Mary sqd George j4'ayj
in in evil hour for Ohappiness of our
house, came together. It pa, the. oldy pod
story. He won her, but not with youv
father's, consent. Your father's pride,. de-
mou that it was,.made him forget bis own
humble origin. He spurned George Jaffrey,
tauntedhim,antoake         aggly
sure, sent Mary, your sigter, to a. distapl
city.,0eorge Jaf rac d ber, founmhe
and they, were married. From that time
forth your father cest her off-t very
mention of her existeUce, the utterance ol
her name, was forbidden. They returned
to the cityn     for    w  eJafra
seemed to prosper; but -agaiu your prde
Jerome Puval, was at its ,devis h york
You tried to separate them; but 'faling-
with your hoairded wealth an ld tie fli
ene' which that welth created-'yoi
ruined his er all, and%~ artifice 4dreun
ning drove him stey 1oy step on tihedown
ward path, 1i t6h Ikpethat at' last Ah
would abandon him to his fate. it sh
ciung to him, for th6 love which is boriic
such purity and,'love is as immovable a
fate. What pitiful prayer of'mine, wha
entreaty were wasted to change your iM
placable hatred for George JaffrayNea'e
-and yot albne now. Di sIenee, in' ago
I submitted. Their f team durin
the past five yeai a healed book to u
But oh lIthe sadiess of those yeiis,Akd1
nowj      .   -1.
"Sileneel woman I" iu'ssed hrval.
" Mother! another I " cried Edith,.  -

S Andb   -"1her bitterinvectIve falling
upon th6 ibiln- of her husband like a
seteniide "bf  o6n-" the 'eid has home.
Ge'dge Jafmrdered;Madead foni
staliition.  W;,  rm Dvl ldn
pride reap its red*i-d." '
'See, tdith; MW fhifted," .,exclabied
Duval. " t ttet he '-bre dead 'than to
have'knowi thi."
" Better you"were da  f thil to live
caused thisagon'y," miurmuredthe' mother,
kiheeling by lier"daughte.
Edith lay -beido" the chhlf.-imp aid
notidnless. 1Poor girlhat darker Pag6 in
her beok of -lifm ht'hae'vben turned
yotawhile.
Tlb'iiasks had fallen from the faces of
those *hom 'sh'had only knovn Yeft--
ind how bidebi'i ja the'kiilifyof their
lives-lives whichro;6e6M  iloou
had beert a liig, ie;  t eA  nse smiiles
of onietnentme " w'!as i'.oloi -IIc ery.
§atel,"'ttely Ai was the egradation e
the outcast daughter, or'whathey sup-
,  o bed tol6 th~ fearfi0 doom of"poegg
a4nycompared ilth th6 nien tl degra-
4a1ion tia doom w'inIN' the  stnacAo'
f his pr'd and ate "had brought upon
i 3eromeuval.
,N          OlAPTERf 17V."
.1 A XHBITIoR &amp;   i9X UPPER CRLYsT--
-  WTammh a  a grand gathering f 'the
- plums on thb) upper)cratithi-
e brown-stenObi'ck id miiorthr walls -of
e the aidenceaof CiAiton thrttgg.
f   The ShraggA were of an old'fatlly.- Ae-
Is cording to .their own rObord of'e'digree
)t they dated back farther thtW  4eiih the
i- grandsiies of the Itlterbeckers of the
s. last -cntiry.-
ty  "In the maId ry'f th6 ddst ofkthelu04-
ig ittcul'the oeeftheirdafMdeneras
s tion not a i ragg had sid4debded-ilint-
i sof or herself -by doigIttihhibg tiseful,
ofbarfdugaenit, 'dfiicly/'61 da ht-e.
Theft 4et high nd mighty andrgdat by
inheritadVe *

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

29


BETWEEN TIJE CRUSTS.

. There were oYnviQspxalcon±cts-thatI
through lack of fortune wee tabooe1 from
the 1oftyplepe of fAshion4pd ubeblood-
yv4o, did  hper :th Akat .noyery remote
period the ,Shrggs had  pen.po -bptter
than other peopley.that, the ancestral
Shrugs were ash4Outjchpsi k'eepera, of
low eorner-grocerisandbad; been even
so degraded as to earn their g0aily breAdi
butter, and beer as common laborers,2
Thisgrand gathepg  as the birthday
fete of Miss Arapella Shragg, daughter of
Mr. od Mrs4 Carltou Sbrugg.
Also, sister of Nqmt.by Shrugg, Whose1
ofy t*Uet wyien. not ei4twey  ptint
labyrinths of gentlemny iuesito,
devoted itself,principally in  Q tegla-
tion dof blid, swell se        other
similar aetic stu4iei a a     ithitge
modernbloods g his cre,
Aid the thrg,1ookin       bout im
with  h     V ay  ochaletie of a man f
sahion  ?eto tht'sorro4ng    ande
Vlwg~ 5  J~aj iO 5,  r,  whi
Ioert GIh
e q4 ailed 9 ,t4 eyes light, clea,
An     ~e     e of e9vacF    e, and
h4~eepersa       ered ths ihe
felt there need be but little Leerof ft
recognition as George Jaffray.
His invitation to this " Crush " of the
Shruggs' habee qibroughtrabout by Mad-
am eisneho*oquwd a   eeieat of the
hotel, and .wjth rheniu he. through theI
trifling courtesy .of handing her a card-
VWlase 1hi 0be dropped id oneaof the par-
I9s, ha4* n j  change qiacompliments
which-afterwarari ened4 aipto ,  tler
acquaintane.., formal ingodgetons are
not alwoya peeesary in, the grand htiels,
where alltheguestp are, supposed ts be
smshda, the.Cqutjesspqga4,:bs4the
entree of the Shrugg circle. She  deform
A4  *siUgular4fancy fpr1,Qenang aAn
ghnvlish-      ; leeMa     t -lge j49  jAbe
w4pywsfaqut )enquar#,of2 1pA, She
wasR 4         o4nselywMgthy1and car-
Ytarsan i he ale efeaiving fo$ue two
years sfie had resided at therhotel, fully

sustained, the truth of what the world
thought.
-Finely formed, nofi beyon4 thirty,
fascistlng in manner, with grace in every
movement,,a winning smile, and in ex-
pressin of softlanguor ;in.her dark-brown
eyes whiph woulAA4ave allured an ancho-
rite--ishe had% no. iack of worshipers.
Whom she wanted to charm were more
than charmed.
So, through this woman of the wrd,
Robert Glenhaa i-eceived his perrfaned
billet of adrai son to the Shrug birth-
dayfete.
Thethreads-of fateIthat a!* constantly
weaving together and Which by' their
united strength lead uien 'sutely to their
appointed end, are'in themselves frail
enough.
One by one they join until like the
united strands of a cable -their power is
irresistible.
'Al the notables 'of society--literary,
thonethr9and artistidwere'collected to
fioidr the' youtbfuf heitess; absorb-the
Skraig' 'wines, andi luxuriatb upon the
shrn~ vialids, and ove' and '6e again
exhast theirstock of current gossip.
presently a flutter, and another arrival.
Mrs. Ca&amp;iten hrtgg, all smiles And ex-
4itenteit was gl, htel.
"y ,lear Countess--so late! ,I have
been dying to see you. Really I 'was just
thinking of ~se  g the carriage for you.
Your absence woulo have made our, little
14so incomplete. Arabla was earftil
something serious had happened. You
are ever so punctptal.
f " My desr-Mrs. Shrugg, one always fhde
little obstqces in the waywhen one is
hastening to the greatest , enjoymet.",.
" This way, my dear Countess. Yonder's
xopr fen 4dr. GlquhaP;nomble looking,-is
h-4nt.,: A,.by the way,:whenyou have
greetpdiArabella yoa must permit me to
.intrpIugeoh, such a charming personage.
Really the girlare delighted witbn -,;
so distinguished-such exquisitetaoe-l,"
And hero Mrs. Shrugg whispered.-"'fe-
seems to 'be iespecialy fon4 of Axabela,.

BETWEEN TIIE CRJJSTS.

amp,, do ,baligve 4ie nmeaning is deeper
than mere casual admiration.'
O (%love at frst g  perhaps., .Ley,
like jut8, is ever .so  indtid it c.an
not peepout from behind thegndaegnad
betray its igii~.Wmshag           i-
able Crichtpaw  ou yQa baye found I Are
you iot afraid,he will eclipse pay new
found friend-Mr. GiTpm '
"Pshaw, Countess I     got so-- so old.
He is yoiager looking, at lepst, andreport
says etrmely wealthy. He lopke eveg
inch a man o fortu e. Bat epme, yen
shall see him."1
A And X4ne M[oqaixd, briliant an
resle4ydeut in her magnificent toilette,
fonoe4te ost'esto the irthor en4 of
the diing roomsyhere, surrounde6b  a
gioup of adniers, (of her  tune), stood
" llthl-toe (ounetss is here at last,-"
I gm t 9 ~hpy. tiththo leliiggfui
to benextremplor happy.   ountetou
are tho id-'--- Yo
Madame the Countesa offered tlSq usual
el   sh9ountesi of our lat-,
,,O soe a  eTj q #piop, rt. Leo'-,"
Tshaw --how could yqu" MIgied ArIA-
" la 1~o ipv ,y u haye M.9Mir
4sta g-  "        U
"Pentshon"        e       ever can
mathiter renth. Mithter   nteon ith
ian,'hpanth, Pptl   n q l   e dead
"And here he is," said Mrs. Shrugg,
gr      e pe1 ypqed witbI epoppea-
lant graceful air of a man perfectly  t.age
jWith i      a    st        hopeg of
94-1~ ,Ev~je~thy , sp     :    t scer-
taingy    p       fpap sf -psesio
0 ,         n,   9%   wo we 0utht
thpeaking of you. Ma mere-"
" 4lg  FaetQ prgs~ntyou Mg, St.
Leon, to Madlme, the Countga Mogard."
.  J~e9a a boe prfong y, smiled

behind s luxuriant moustappe, ad ex-
pressed his gratification. . Thephe and th
09Uepeexchang~laces.      -
,The was a nmeawng mnthat inter-
()hp                        ei ther
elhuge  f        Ltgep deeper thaet
Arag11aaor her nyethgr guld have fath-
omed, tped thpy ever so hard.
Meantime, while they were mterchang-
ng ,he then  aga comphiu epry sall
talk,, Robert Glepheu esne toward the
group through the throng.,
"Oh-ere comesfWr. *qlepham," ex-
claimed the Countess,. .,
A, tha  o    t lt behid, biv he
herdtheime of aP*r*oounc dA
It jtarple  h,    14 19oke  a rQupd,
there wa n.up fag ieax him hecoul4're-
cognize. There Weretwoqpereops thm1tj
near, one with abald had, pecthes, nd
a white neq#, $   otr    1 apd thin
faeed,'wvith pj~geq ys w4, wege c9n-
vegigg
Glenham moved slower. They neces-
saril appiqachenearer.e
" Ah, Duval is beyond the reaek of such
accusations. Hisw4   life di qyes
theigr    rQvpsp     s f)he
little geutlempu.
't Tlt may be t ou see p pp  will
talk."
~s,,apd  lbi 4q flygtenlthey
fpeeV thea
"Well, it is a strange story, and hoda of
gpy prdinsygapz it gould ,b blieyd.
You see,iteppes from suph an, esp -
able soupe,,to. Now f1 rener ~4ear-
ing many years agttge ba     aded
4ffg4ter Who m~agied a-a-
the'preker were ptrruptedby
a tlqd pagty.           '          b
(*leubamn heard no more, -but t  was
enqggh toaonyme, hin.that topgie  re
still busy in keepmg alive the meiporjes
ofthr ,in connection -w         tie
itd
oleham   advance   to         the
"Now, Mr. Glenham, we have y n  er
w    4 wi1  o o  with usa
said.

p
I'

31

F


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

~' I

"Oh, yeth, Mithter Glenham, and, while
mother and --.",
"Yes,said tlie Cbdutess, "wle du
bestow youil si is uIl bon goir friends
yonder you 10ill leae auto anluse eabI
othe'. WlliE 6d I~ase. tutasiely'
you will not abaihdonM     6n. t  s to sb
One cani  call it 6diu fite surely to
be in the Iiesede of Madainie the Countess
and Mr. Glenham."
Flattery sometimes does well-
"Thakethpere already!' Cie, iAlther,
when we return to intefait their' tdte-d-
tete Thelly ttndlB'roiWill be in order."
Mother and da-6iiterlod them and were
soon followed'by 8t."e6n, Wh6 assumed
his mbst siebbiti saiter.
The Coi3tess and lenham for a brief
period were left comrn atriey alone."
"]mus ne face ramacenstbmedto see'
upon occasions like this," said th6 "Odim-
"4nd whose iay that bet"     asked
G  T.,erone Durat."             .
"Ah!" Thfe tnie ih   dhh   ittbed
the eXclamation did not es"Apehe-niotcee.
' Have you eer- In6t hln't " si'.sked
watching him as he answered.
"I-have'ent hii.t M   eliU e-h  is a
banker or something of that ad 6    .len
ham 'AnsWered.
'You should know1bird. lReis a helf-drna
Imahil Yo1i *oldei"Ife liiinI
"Wht foi- Iis'sault     T    e Waa
t i ienl~r     a
abitternes 'in his kehtis  '
"Of course not-atWigh e lie a niied
for that. He is proudif hspiband
never forgets those who sre beneath i1.'
"Very condbscenin. .P hags thaydo
not allow hiin to  6t646 ,   b   te
'Glenham.
"Sir dynic-JoiAerbuQ        iieo'
a patrn of arta Napoleon of f6ae e i
W mty'sooir thanhe epacts en-
eount~r a Wellingtonfj
"No one ki~ows how much hberjc nds
In ciarity-"
"Perha's it could' be easily counted."
His sneer was too palpable.

"Why, Mr. Glenham !." she etlauined,
as if offended.
"Ibeg your padon, 1Madii6 he said.
"GrAiited," she"e'xclassing
jxiin'g withheita' TIiesleT is #W.
'A'GledhAi Ii w' 6
Ye1i-riea~shie'f1l   nd fa e, with
its hardnietalli smNile,'the  out forte lad
in irreproachable Midl.
"Isowhe is botri a-hat a' Baal to
worship;, thanih -gliani -   mocke
of mahd. He'ediiti-treogzegeorke
Jariyinm&amp;-4or t8,h"i Gieoi'j JaiAy
is dead. l, s.nay fancya resenblae...
welll    ni1 fancy jusow he would
auhrather encouteSr ata than George
"You seent             yo oldin
council with yoursenf  "'
.P4rdon nie--I was thin     bf this
,'Duval was welcome      r   la fnd
her ihotlier 4th'a yioi;e .n
monies.
GeAim  beheld Iuva apjroieh; with
Mrp. Shrugg, with much tl     1bouef~lng
that a mn ppirdiof     a    fee6l i ye
dreadi-ngit   ne etie      w     h
:11e hid "Ao 'tf)Aubb" ffid i!oitl
the changes produced by the p  dVA tionlio
lihin de66',fiear        h
belief Duval must have that he was deAd
ref'eic    t6  recie-' an fear on
Y6      de d  eet  I
sort 662930#         t ethim -eco
face
todco'ei)'.;                 'I(
Whie Du1, odnlyneted         i n his
pioge hyhie aihety'Ofth 'bright ind
shtif   l bh6 i d~ b'hi"h deg  t  eI
sure slid honor bfni i #rini themey-
god, advanced but slowly, Glenhar t iid
MaW4 6iohqaid still eie sefdhg to-
gether.                      I'
' H-hi" hads"a'dai&amp;ghteig I Woevne "
said-Gliauhai.
Yesf,"&amp;Iplied Madlume. ' " t peiject

"MISTHER ST. LEON, WE WERE JUTH TIIPEAKING OF YOU."
.(See page 31.)

4nO
04

I.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

in form, but still handsome sweet, that's
the term."
"Of course, being a banker's daughter,
she could not be otherwise," interrupted
Duval.
"AgainI You seem to have a strange
dislike to our gods of wealth and their
belongings.".
"I beg pardon.   Accept my second
apology; but really-"
"4Ah, Mr. Glenham, you are hyper-
critical."
"Oh, no. Were I hypercritical I might
say something still more unpleasant; but
his daughter-does she appear in society
often?"
"1 Seldom,"was the Madame's reply.
Mrs. and Miss Trainor, Mr. Glenham-
there just beyond the group around Mr.
Duval, evidently they have just arrived."
"And pray who are they,, Madame Mo-
quard?"
"Very amiable people. Rumor has it
that Miss Trainor is engaged to-." The
reply was unfinished. At that moment
Miss Trainor's face came in full view;
every feature was visible to Glenham.
"My God 2" he almost exclaimed aloud,
"that is the face, the very'face I"
"What is it, Mr. GlenhamI Are you
ill?"
"No, no.   A momentary surprise-a
case of mistaken identity, nothing more I
assure-you."
Madame Moquard gave him    a sharp,
penetrating glance.
"It is the reality of the fce photo-
graphed upon the carte-d&amp;-visite which I
found in the pocket of the dying man on
that terrible night," he said to himself,
"and why has fate led her here to 'my
presenceI" Then aloud:
"Madame Moquard, do you know Miss
-Miss Trainoer's given name?"
"Louise, I believe."
The mystery was out. 'Now Glenham
understood it all. Ths wasLouise Train-
or, the sister of the dead stranger. The
letter beginning yitb ".Dear Iobert," and
signed "Louise,w" was herlast letter to her
brother,'Robert Trainor, and he, looking
In3

then upon her, remembered the words he
uttered when he had read the letter in
that obscure lodging-house in the Bowery
on the night he fled away from the Pell
street cellar
"Out of thousands bearing those names,
Louise and Robert, in this 'vast city, I
might, in ten years' search, happen to find
them."
Glenham, now that the mystery of the
identity of the man to whose terrible mis-
fortune hie'owed his present position, and
that of the sister within his reach, re-
solved to avoid her ; why, will be revealed
hereafter.
" There, Mr. Glenham, isn't he perfectly
handsome? DI'ye see I" broke in Madame
Moquard, pointing to a distinguished look-
ing individual just entering.  "Not to
know him is to argue yourself a stran-
ger-"
"To fashionable religion," interrupted
Glenham.. "Yes; I see him and know
him. He is the Reverend Mr. Pawridge,
who gets ten thousand a year for his good
looks and his capacity for teaching his
high-toned congregation how not to be
followers of the Nazarene."
" Madame the Countess Moquardl -it
was St. Leon who spoke, havee you-a
moment to spare ,"
"Certainly, if Mr. Glonham will accept
-my apologies for deserting him."
f Certainly, for a moment," replied Glen-
ham, smiling.
St. Leon and Madame Moquard bowing,
passed on a few steps and were soon ap-
parently in earnest conversation.
"That Countess is another social riddle
I shall solve one of these days," mentally
noted Glenham. "I think, Robert Glen-
ham," he said to himself, "it will be bet.
ter for you to disappear from this scene."
In pursuance of this mental resotvo he
slowly pushed his way through the "Con-
stantly moving throng in the drawing-
rooms carefully avoiding, though through
no special feeling of fear, the groups'sdr.
rounding Jerome Duval; or wlire Ara-
bella had at that instant taken Miss Train.
or by the hand.

I

I.
ii

33


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

"Dear lar. Pawridge," he heard.
Then he saw the handsome clerical
humbug gently stroke his whiskers and
smile, and bow, and reply to the flashily
dressed young lady who had addressed
him. "Ah, Miss Ebbetts-ah-1am happy
to meet you--ahI What a scene this is!
Friendly, kindly intercourse; love-all ex-
emplifying human love, Miss Ebbetts!
Ah--there is my good friend-dear me,
Mrs. Shrugg, I am happy-."
Glenham heard no more. Had he fol-
lowed his mental inclining by a physical
illustration he would have administered
to the reverend disciple of love a sound
kicking.  But he continued his way
towards the door.
CHAPTER XV-
"RIGHT IN THE MInDLE OF THE BUNJA-
LOO," AS INTERPRETED BY 31R. CLUTCH-
IT-WITH THE REVEREND MR. PAW-;
RIDGE'S ACTION THEREON.
WHILE the Reverend Mr. Pawridge was
in the act of explaining to Mrs. Shrugg,
her daughter, Arabella, and her brother,
-m. Namby Shrugg, the reason ofjthe
absence of' Mrs. Pawridge from these
scenes of dazzling light and human love,
there ame an unlooked for interruption.
The cry of "Put him out" was heard
in the hall. 'Then, "How did he get in "
" He's coming up 1" " Where are the ser-
vuntsI" "Theruffian!1"1
Immediately, thereafter a voice broke
-out in song. The voice was not operatic
'y 'any means. It lacked culture slightly,
and the- higher -notes were somewhat
cracked.
From the bustle and confusion it was
evident the singer was bilariously obsti-
nate.,                             ,
" Wout you be quiet!"
 R-r-r-r-erise up Wil-li-am' Rer-r-r-
eriley and come er-eralong with me," ral"
lied the voice.
"Get thepolice!"
"Lemma alone; I'm a gen'l'man and a
child of song!"

BETWEEN TH

"Then upon the hot, perfumed air ar
the sound of a slight scuffle, and present-
ly in the broad arched doorway stood the
obstreperously inclined child of song, ha t
in hand, facg the high and mighty guests
of the blue-blooded Shruggs.
The child of song was Mr. Clutchit,
with the wink of inebriation in his eye-
and the blush of hot whiskey, not to speak
of other fluids, upon his nose.
"Who is he?.1" was the general murmur
pervading the astonished throng, for they
saw by his apparel he was not one of their-
"set.
"Lays andgenelmen-spologise--brupt,
perence-buz 'fac' is (hic) friend o? minez
ere  (hic)-~ I
The hicepough suddenly changed the eur-
rent of his mind and he burst out once
more as a- child of song, and entered, or
rather waved into the room.   Out' he
roared the fragment of an old army chant:
"Nght in the midAle of (hic) the Bunjaloo,
Oh (hie) I love ,Marja(o an ashe lovesh me,
Dunjtloo (hic), Btinjaloo."
At this precise period of his harmonic
exiltation St.' Leon, who, had advanced
nearest him, suddenly amid divers screams
from the' women, grasped Clutehit by the
back of the neck, and was in the' act of
running him  out when .the voice of the'
Reverend Mr. Pawridge was heard.
"Let him go, my friendd..
St. Leon loosened his hold, and' Clutch-
it, in no wise abashed,,faced him.
"Whar-yer-er- jays and gen'men.
" Right in the middle hic) of the ,unjaloo,
Bunjaloo-"
"My friend," said the Reverend. Paw-
ridge, placinghishandgently upon Clutph-
'it's shoulder. "My 4ear friend, permit me
to speak a word 'to you in private, Will
you oblige me I"
Clutchit stared at the reverend gentle-
man and then burst into a roaring laugh,
which was suddenly terminated byva hip-
cough which v7ry nearly made lim dislo-
cgte bis necir.  -- .
" Thas good. I lie) knowae   -p
it, aizza Porrige. Shertenly IMl spl'n.

Mum's the word. I know (hic) you; so-so
(hic) does Mizzus Porrige."
"The fellow's crazy!!" exclaimed one of
the blue bloods at a distance.
"Be careful, Mr. Pawridge, the wretch
may do you some injury!"
And the women added a little chorus of
exclamations expressive of their regard
for the safety of their dear pastor,
"Have no fear," said the reverend gen-
tleman, with a majestic wave of his hand.
"9Words of love will conquer even the
tiger; this is merely a man-"
Right in the (hi) middle of the'Bunjaloo,
added Clutchit-
"Now, this way, my friend, this way;
one word in private, and then we will, if
you desire it, return together ; there, tak e
my arm. My friends," and the pastor
looked around with the same sort of smile
with which every Sabbath morning he
leaned over his pulpit and begun his ser-
mon. "My friends, you see kindness be-
getteth confidence, confidence bringeth
love, and love conquers all. Be kind to
the erring. We are none of us more than
human; we all have our likings-"
"Bour (hic) sour for me," put in Clutch-
it.
"And our dislikes," continued Paw-
ridge, placing his arm tenderly within
that of Clutchit's. "Come, my friend."
Clutchit made no resistance. He mere-'
ly hiccoughed a guttural reference to the
bulojaloo, and with that mysterious and in-
e*plicable swing to his legs which only a
wholly drunken man can successfully ac-
complish, went with his clerical conduct-
or. .
"You need not follow me, friends," re-
marked Mr. Pawridge.. "I will merely
adcompany my good friend , bel9w stairs.
Perhaps some refreshment may restore
him-ah."
No one followed; but the incident af-
forded the throng matter for gossip during
his absence.
Down the broad stairs, at the rear, into
the then dimly lighted basement hall went
Sthe pair.

34

Ii
I I
I'
I

E CRUSTS. *35
'Facing them was the heavy door leading
out into the street area.
" Whe.-er-er goin'?" queried Mr. Clutch&amp;
it, thickly.
" Merely where we will not be dis-
turbed," replied Mr. Pawridge,inhis mild"
est accents. He glanced around. There
were none of the servants visible. He
drew the bolt, and opening the door wide
turned to Clutchit, who, by his extreme
quietude, was evidently under the im-
pression that preparations were being
made to invigorate his system with a dose
of bourbon, if nothing better. He was
mentally deciding whether he would take
it hot or cold when his cogitation - was
rudely disturbed.
Mr. Pawridge bad grasped him by the
coat collar with a ferocious grip, and be-
gan bombarding him with a fierce sue
cession of kicks, each one of which almost
lifted him from the floor and towards the
open door.
"You infernal, drunken vagabond, get
out of here (kick). Follow (kick) me, will
you (kick). I understand it (kick) all
(double kick, supplemented with a sound-
ing cuff upon Clutchit's ear from his left
hand), you beast 1'I More kicks, which
brought the. -astnished 'Clutchit to the
threshold. The tremendous assault, so
unexpected,and from such a source, al-
mioDt sobered Clutchit.
" What 've I doke (hie), eh I Godelmi-
tey, 1em me go.
"' ll et you go, you brute " punctuat-
Ing with a 'k ik.
"Is--this-wa. what (ie) you-.-call-
call love for a feller, kickin' a drunken
man? Wus than kickin' a cripple."
Mr. Pawridge made no reply to this save
with 4 last and overwhelming kick which
landed- Cltchit on his hands and knees in
the middle of the area. -"There, damn
ou,'? and then Mi. Pawridge in'ediately
added, mentally, "IMay the Lord forgive
the oath."
Clutchit groaned and &amp; ore ,-Mr. iPa-
ridge closed the door,' revolted It, and
turned towards the stairs' just as ydung
Shrugg 'and two or three .of the -guests


36                       BETWEEN
were descending them, having been sent
as a committee at the earnest intercession
of the ladies to ascertain the safety of
their dear apostle of love.
" AhI my friends," this in his bland
pulpit tone, "that poor inebriated brother
has this moment departed in peace and full
of the-of the beneficence of love toward
all men, toward you and toward me."
And then they ascended the stairs, while
Mr. Clutchit in the area was gathering
himself into an upright position and mak-
ing his way into the street, tolerably so-
ber, and vowing all sorts of dire and pain-
ful vengeance upon Pawridge.
"lHe's a nice Apostle, he is," muttered
Clutchit. "If some of them women he's
after, and some of the men them women
belongs to knew what an infernal hypo-
crite he is, there wouldn't be any use of
his wife putting me on his track. I didn't
want to spy him, but now, by the jump-
ing Jehosophat, I'll follow him-sober,
too."
CHAPTER XVI.
LOUISE TRAINOR FINDS A CLUE-ST. LEON.
THERE were tlkee persons at that fite
of the Shrugg'b who were far more
troubled, mentally, than either Mr. Clutch-
it or the Reverend Mr. Pawridge, but
upon either of their faces were the masks
of content, or happiness,. or peacefulness,
behind which the babbling throng could
not see. ,
Why should they not hide their face?7Far
better as it is that we all should hide from
the world, from our friends, the troubles of
our lives. Each has his or her own griefs,
anxieties, and daily torments to battle
with, and certainlyis notrefreshed by hav-
ing added to the number, those of others.
Robert Glenham, when he returned to
his hotel, was full of thought, of schemes,
of fancies, concerning the future of the
course he had marked out for himself..
To-night he had been brought face to face

THE CRUSTS.

with Jerome Duval, and there had arisen
before him the fair face and features of
Louise Trainor, the original of the photo-
graph carte-de-visite which he had found
in the dying man's wallet. But might not
the man who had been thrown d6wn the
steps of the miserable cellar in Pell street
be another than her brother? It was
barely possible. However it might be,
should suspicion once in the remotest de-
gree point its fateful finger at him as be-
ing connected with the death of Robert
Trainor-that man, and through one of
those strange mysteries of life step-by step
retrace his career back into the blackness
of that awful night, and so fix upon him
even the robbery of the helpless victim,
there would be but one more step-the
scaffold. Circumstantial evidence hangs
more men than absolute fact. Fact in
testimony is no more nor less than itself,
it is hard, plain, and absolute; it suggests
nothing to come, and out of it is born no
mystery; circumstantial evidence, vague,
a thing of hints, inuendoes, surprises, and
never complete, a romance and suggestion,
always pointing to something yet unre-
vealed.
Should Jerome Duval recognize him-
there was but little fear of that, however
-but should he, would not that recogm-
tion reopen investigation and so lead to
the forging, despite himself, link by link,
ofa chain of circumstantial evidence which
would drag him down to disgrace?9
He shuddered as his imagination con-
ceived the bare possibility of such a re-
sult.
And Louise Trainor, bad she so soon
given up the search for her brotherI
Never since the hour she had confronted
the stranger in the banking-house of
Jerome Duval had she ceased racking her
mind with the terrible thought. Yet she
had made no outward demonstration of
her intent, or of her mental trouble since
that day. She, too, wore her mask.
Jerome Duval, despite hie mssk-that
stereotyped smile-wasmentallysuffering.
Though his pride, his inordinate selfish-
ness, had almost absolute control, over

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.'

him, yet the thoughts of the past, of , his
treatment of-his dead daughter and of the
terrible ordeal to which the unexpected
revelation of her death and, as he bnagin-
ed, that of her husband had subjected him
would obtrude themselves.
So far as his conscience was concerned,
is trouble would have been exceedingly
alight, but it.was that intense fear of so-
ciety getting at the facts; of a raking up
of all the old stories of Jaffray's elopement
with his daughter.
There was the real fear of Duval.
From his remaining daughter, Edith, he
had concealed the skeleton in his house
with care and caution until that unlucky
day.
When Edith, by the confession of her
mother, had acquainted herself with all'
the details of the wrong done her sister, a
sister whom she had never remembered,
nor of whom had she ever before heard,
she scarcely knew what course to take.
She would not abandon her mother, yet
she had resolved to remain no longer be-
neath her father's roof if a plausible excuse
could be found for making her home else-
where.
The mother broached the subject to
Duval. He was inflexibly opposed to any
such arrangement.
"What you know You know," said he
to Edith one day; "what else there may
be of our family matters and our troubles
in the past that you do not know, I do
not care to have you learn abroad. Your
home is a palace, Edith; all that my-
wealth can bring you, you well know, is
yours; but to leave my roof to reside
elsewhere is the satisfaction of a foolish
freak I will not permit."
The mother's influence, like his, though
on the wane with the poor girl, for a while
held her in check, but not long.
At several reunions, parties, and in their
box at the opera, she had met Madame the
Countess Moquard. Sometimes that'superb
woman was accompanied by St. Leon, to
whoi Edith had taken an unaccountable
dislike; sometimes with Madame were
other lights of society.

37

One evening, while as yet undetermined
by what ,means, she should get beyond
and out of the dark shadows of selfishness
and pride, and away from the mockeries
which surrounded her in her own home, a
party of young ladies, many of them her
former class-mates in the Spingler Insti-
tute, was made up to attend the opera
'' Traviata" being the attraction with Gaz-
zaniga, then at the height of her popular-
ity, and Brignoli.
Through the invitation of one of the
ladies, Glenham was one of the gentlemen
selected to accompany them.
This brought about an introduction to
Edith of the "grave, quiet, thoughtful
man-so gentlemanly, so reserved, so
polite, and so polished," as one of, the
young ladies in,-her enthusiastic admira-
tion described him to another.
So, by one of the trifling chances of his
every-day life, Glenham found himself in
conversation with the young sister of his
dead wife, the daughter of his bitterest
enemy.
Could that young girl have known to
whom she was speaking, with whom she
was so pleasantly chatting upon the opera,
what might have been the result ?
Had that meetingg not have occurred,
this story might have ended here.
CHAPTER XVI.
ST. LEON5 S TORY--WHEN AND WHERE
sT. LEON MET MADAME THE "COUNTESS"
MOQUARD.
ONE evening, two years prior to the
occurrence of the terrible death of George
Jaffray's wife in the Pell street basement,
St. Leon,-then a stranger in the city, was
standing in front of the main entrance to
an uptown hotel, then newly erected,
looking out upon the crowds which were
passing to and fro along the wide pave-
ment. He was upon the point of starting
off, having lighted a fresh cigar, for a
stroll up the street.
At that moment his attention was at-
tracted by the appearance of a woman in

I


ni
It
I.

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

the passing throng. To him her walk and
demeanor, although she was alone, did
not seem in keeping with what he suppos-
ed might be her calling.
As she turned her face momentarily
toward him, the glaring light of the hotel
gave him a full view of her features. She
was not what he would call beautiful, but
she was handsome; her features were regu-
lar, and he saw none of the hard lines and
traces upon them which indicated a life
passed in dissipation. As she passed she
merely glanced at him, as any lady might,
in common with the rest of the group
upon the steps.
A sudden whim, an unconquerable im-
pulse, induced him to follow her. She
crossed the next corner and, discov-
ering that she was followed, changed her
apparent intention of turning and contin-
ued down the avenue.
Reaching a quiet portion of the street
he came beside her. She looked up, and
as he saw no expression indicating an ob-
jection to his movements, he addressed
her with some common-place phrase by
the way of introducing himself.
She replied pleasantly, yet with some-
thing of reserve. With this introduction
they walked on slowly. Her language, as
they grew more familiar, betrayed a de-
gree of culture and modesty of expression
indicating that the social position from
which she had fallen might have been
above the ordinary level.
Down the avenue they walked until
they reached Twelfth street. By this
time much of her reserve had vanished,
and the two chatted as volubly as if they
were old acquaintances now met after a
long separation.
She informed him that she resided in
St. Mark's Place. He offered his services to
escort her a portion or all the way home,
as she was alone. Jestingly she placed her
arm within his, she felt safer, she said, and
it looked more respectable.
At this moment they came opposite a
fine large residence; she glanced toward
it, then turned her face from it and shud-
dered as if she had caught sight of some

: horrible phantom. He felt her hand con-
vulsively tighten its clasp upon his arm.
He questioned her as to the cause of her
strange emotion; she gave him an evasive
answer, and for a while she appeared de-
pressed. Her gaiety had partially vanish-
ed. Reaching the house in St. ,eark's Place
he paused upon the steps.
His curiosity was piqued to learn the
cause of the sudden change in her demean-
or when opposite that mysterious build-
ing. For the deep and strange interest he
felt in regard to this woman, he could not
account, and he was inclined to laugh at
himself for it. It was the fascination of
the hour he thought,
St. Leon became a constant visitor, and
once or twice escorted her to the theatre.
He discovered that when there was work
in that line, she earned a living by making
artificial flowers, or gave lessons in music.
One day, and despite himself he knew it
would be the inevitable conclusion of the
intimacy out of which lhad grown up for
her an unconquerable love, he proposed
marriage. At first she firmly refused, but
this only the more determined him; at last
she yielded. She then told him the story of
her life. In that he learned that with all
her brilliance and undoubted intellect she
had been the victim of that one great mis-
take -of womankind.
This occurred one year prior to this
meeting with St. Leon, who was about to
become her husband. She was then a
scholar at the Spingler Institute, and rare-
ly missed a day in her regular attendance.
Her parentswere wealthy, though not what
the ton of society would regard as rich,
and resided in New Orleans, and had sent
her to NewYork to complete her education.
There were only her and her sister, three
years younger than herself, for the parents
to idolize. Their every wish had been
gratified, and their future bade fair to be
bright and happy. Both sisters attended
the school, but in different departments.
One day she noticed a gentleman stand-
ing near the steps of the boarding-house
which adjoined the Institute as she came
out with one of her companions. When ho

38

BETWEEN TH
eaughtlier glance momentarily fixed upon
his he raised his hat slightly and smiling-
ly bowed.
The man was well dressed, good look-
ig, and there was an expression of earnest
admiration and respect upon his counte-
nance which the woman could not fail to
notice. She passed on to go out. Next
mornng he was there again, and again
smiled and bowed. For three or four days
this continued, when one afternoon, hap-
pening to go out -earlier than usual she
saw him evidently waiting for her. Then
he saluted her. She hesitated. He found
his advantage in that hesitation, and for
the first time spoke to her, she was fright-
ened, but the apparent sincerity and re-
spect inhis tone reassured her. He walked
beside her to the corner of University
place, but in that interview made no ad-
vances to excite a suspicion. Besides, why
should she suspect, knowing no evil her-
self? A day or two after this she saw him
again, and in return for his bow he receiv-
ed from her a smile of recognition and a
nod. There, thus meeting almost daily,
these simple recognitions merged into
short walks together.
He played a sure game.
From short walks their intimacy grew
into longer strolls, step by step by his spe-
cious artifices he led her to love him, he
promising, entreating, filling her imagina-
tion with dreams of future bliss. While
withhim her home and parents were for-
gotten; When at home he and his protesta-
tions occupied her mind.
She became frequently absent from her
recitations, wenVtoff for long rambles in the
parks and through the bye streets, until
one afternoon she went with him to Tay-
or's. There for the first time he prevailed
upon her to drink a glass of wine, then
another, and yet another.
All the while his serpent tongue beguil-
ing her deeper into the toils. Dazed, be-
wildered by the strange excitement of the
wine, she accompanied him from the saloon
-and she then realized the extent of her
error.
Under various pretexts through all their'

E CRUSTS.                          39
acquiintance he had persuaded her not to
reveal their intimacy to her parents.
Go.back to the Institute to remain she
could not. Go home she dared not, wouki
not. Two or three times she met this
man. He laughed at her, then threatened
her, cowardly scoundrel that he was.
Then she secured 1;oard and apartments
in St. Mark's place. Until this her remit-
tances had come regularly for her from
home. Then they failed. For the first
few ihonths she had a hard struggle
with poverty. Here the thread of her
story is taken up by St Leon, who had
become fascinated with her. He heard
her story, trusted her, married her, and
they took up their abode at a hotel.
Among the few trinkets and keepsakes
she possessed at the time of their mar-
riagehe had noticed the carte de visited por-
trait of a young man. Questioning her
in reference to it, he found that she al-b
ways evaded direct reply, and not desir-
ing to cause her pain, he finally ceased
his inquiries. But he impressed upon his
memory the features of the portrait. He
trusted her and loved her as a man
should do.
Some weeks after their marriage, re-
turning homeward one evening from Nib-
lo's Garden, St. Leon suddenly pro-
posed a walk up Broadway instead of the
usual carriage ride. Strolling on up they
reached Grace church, then crossed over
toward the Astor Place hotel.
As they stepped upon the. curbstone,
her arm resting lovingly in his, she sud-
denly started, partially drew back, and
he felt her hand grasp his arm in the
same convulsive effort as it did on the
evening when- they  passed the insti-
tute.
As he looked up to see the cause of
her strange terror, he beheld only one
person, a young man, well dressed, smok-
ing a cigar and standing in the entrance"
to the hotel.
One glance was sufficient, the face was
the original of the face of the carte de
visit he had seen in her possession.
The man was in the act of bowing in a


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

mocking manner when his eye caught
that of St. Leon; on the instant he disap-
peared into the hotel.
St. Leon made no comment then, but
arrived at their hotel he at once told her
he recognized the person on the steps of
the St. Denis as the original of the por-
trait, and demanded who he was, and
why his appearance had such an effect
upon her.
She revealed the secret, for she said
that further concealment might bring
upon her distrust, and a suspicion of her
fidelity. He took the portrait. Upon the
back of it was written the name "Mo-
quard."
CHAPTER XVIIL
ST. LEON AND HIS LITTLE TROUBLE.
APTER all, the secret which she revealed
to him concerning the man of whose fea-
tures St. Leon caught a glimpse as he
suddenly disappeared from the entrance
of. the Astor Place Hotel was scarcely
more in its revealment than a realization
of what he had suspected. He knew
there was a mystery connected with his
life; he knew before they were married
that whatever it might be it would sooner
or later be unveiled.
" Moquard !",
That was the name.
The man whom he saw in that single
glance was evidently a man of the town;
in dress, in manner; the mocking siile,
the easy graceful gesture as the stranger
half saluted his wife was convincing proof
to him of a previous intimacy, perhaps
closer than she was willing to acknowl-
edge.
She confessed enough, however. Enough
to show that she had loved before.
The carte de visite he retained.
It was St. Leon's nature to be an adven-
turer.  A man who never fought with
lifek or fortune, but one who through his
shrewdness almost invariably contrived to
keep side by side, a boon companion, with
both luck and fortune.
His sudden affection for her was real.

It was perhaps the, first time in his life
he had ever become infatuated with aught
of womankind.
An adventurer himself, a yreyer upon
society, and always ready to plunder it by
any trick or device which his fertile brain
might suggest, even in the very height of
his infatuation was not blindly led by it
into absolute faith and trust in the honesty
and fidelity of the woman he had married.
He suspected she might betray him at
any moment. Her past life, despite her
plausible and certainly pathetic story of
her early life, had not been pure; the sud-
den trembling and exhibition of fear at
the sight of the strange man---the original
of the face upon the carte de visite-were
to St. Leon evidences of a deeper mystery
in regard to him than she had cared to
confess.
Did she still, despite her story and
statement to the contrary, know the resi-
dence of this man "Moquard?1"
After his discovery, on the evening in
question, of the relation of this man Mo-
quard, he narrowly watched his wife's
movements with a wary eye. He wanted
to believe in her, wanted to believe that
there was one person who could be true
and constant, and thus set at naught his
doctrine that society-mankind-were but
a crowd of vultures and kites, and that
deceit, knavery, and cunning were a part of
their nature.
With the carte de visite in his possession
he was determined to solve the mystery,
whenever chance should happen to bring
him in contact with the stranger.
Should his suspicions be correct, and he
discover that she had deceived him in
the story she had told, it was no part of
his scheme to discard her. Such an idea
lie never once entertained. He needed
just such a confederate, a woman whom
the conflict with the rougher chances of
life had rendered callous to the finer feel.
ing of her nature. If he could mold her
to his purpose and use her in furtherance
of his plans, whatever they might be, he
did not much care.
By adroit practices, by the arts and

"HE HEARD..HER STORY, TRUSTED HER, MARRIED HER."
(Seepage 39.

4*

it

14

40

f I':


V7

cinning of the bold ard shrewd reaper
in the field of human credulity, he had
acquired not only all the airs and appear-
ance of refinement of the courtly man of
society, but a sufficiency of means to sup-
port it. Bye-and-bye, something of an es-
trangement came about between St. Leon
and his wife. They had not quarreled,
yet an inexplicable coolness had slowly,
almost imperceptibly, grown up between
them. Still she served his interest as best
she could
"We can live together or apart," he
said to- her one day, " it matters little as
to that formality, ,but whichever course
you may prefer it need not prevent one
helping the other when necessary. You
are a woman of the world, why need you
care what the world may say of you I1
If we meet in society as mere passing
acquaintances, or as apparent strangers,
so much the better, for then collusion
will not be suspected."
And thus, as the coolness in affection
grew up between them, the bonds of self-
interest became stronger and held them
mutually in each'other's, service.
One day in July following the date of
his marriage, St. Leon bethought him of a
jaunt to Coney Island.
Perhaps there might be profit in it,
mingled with whatever of pleasure the
trip iigh afford.
Arrived upon the Island towards even-
ing, he wandered into one of the hotels
near the beach, lit a cigar, and seated him-
self upon the veranda.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE BRUNETTE OF THE ISLAND-ST. LEON
OPENS THE TRAIL WHICH LOUISE TRAIN-
OR IS TO FOLLOW.
WHILE sitting there listening to the
washing of the long sweeping waves as
they rolled up upon the sand, St. Leon's
attention was attracted by the arrival of a
couple of young women, both in their way
more than ordinarily handsome-the one a

41

blonde the other a dark-eyed brunette.
They had evidently just arrived.
Their arrival so late, at the time when
the Island was fast being deserted by visit-
ors, perhasps caused him to notice them
more particularly, as it was evident from
this lateness that they intended remaining
over night.
The blonde and brunette entered the
reception room-the low porch windows,
or doors rather, of which opened upon the
veranda where he was seated. As they
entered he heard one of them order supper
-and as a preliminary thereto a sherry
cobbler and a milk punch.
From his seat directly opposite one of
the windows by a slight change of position,
he was enabled to see and notice their ap-
pearance and action ; not only that but in
the stillness around, that weird? still-
ness which comes only with the night upon
the sea shore -to hear their conversation
as if uttered in an ordinary tone.
The brunette sipped the milk punch
while the blonde solaced herself with the
lighter exhilaration of the sherry cobbler,
and now, as they sat there awaiting their
supper, he noted their appearance more
closely. The blonde was petite in form, but
well formed, lively, quick in motion, and
wore that peculiar facial expression of
archness and coyness which to even an
ordinary observer would suggest the pre-
sence of a mask concealing the real nature
of the woman. Her dress was not "4loud "
in style, or in the contrast of colors-it was
appropriate to the season-neat, elegant,
and in keeping with her complexion. She
was in style, action, and look a foil to the
brunette. And the brunette was a nagni-
ficent type of the blase woman of pleasure,
playing, with an almost indescribable air
of reality, the part of a woman of fashion.
Taller than her companion, voluptuous
in form and in every motion of her rounded
limbs, and with no action of her well poised
head that was not in itself a study for an
artist, she sat there with the easy grace
and nonchalant air of one Nyose role was
to command, and who had yet to learn the
meaning of the word fail in whatever in-

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

h

'f~ L


Ii

THE CRUSTS.

42                       BETWEEN
trigne or duplicity she attempted. An
enchantres-fair to the sight, but in
reality false, calculating, cold, and as im-
placable as destiny. A Juno in form, a
Venus in beauty, a Hecate at heart.
Through all her grace, b auty, and
queenly fascination was discernible the
traces of a hardened life. As she arose to
cross the room  with her companion, in
answer to the summons to supper, there
was in her walk the peculiar swagger, but
partially hidden by the lithe gracefulness
of her step, which marked her most inti-
mate associations to have been with men
rather than women. Her carriage was
bold and half-defiant, yet withal temper-
ed by the studied effort she made to con-
ceal it.
Half an hour afterward they came out
upon the veranda and lit a couple of ciga-
rettes. After a few whiffs the blonde
threw hers away but the brunette contin-
ned to the end, lit another, and when it
was finished the pair stepped from the
veranda and strolled off to the beach.
They then returned and retired for the
night. St. Leon, his curiosity piqued, re-
solved to remain until next day himself
upon the Island, and so enjoy the glories'
of the early morning at the pea shore.
As to these women, that they were'
adventuresses there could be no doubt,
harpies of some sort, and that they were
there to play their part in one of the many
games by which the unwary are entrapped
was reduced to certainty.
While they were seated near the open
window leading to the veranda a light
wagon was driven up and in it were two
men.
The eldest of the two was evidently a
sport of the sort, that may be seen-any day
lounging about hotel steps or in the neigh-
borhood of first-class saloons. The gray-
tweed summer suit, 'the heavy watch
chain, the cluster diamond pin in his
bosom, the sharp, watchful eye, the hard,
worn look of the features, and that name-
less expression of cunning which pervaded
his whole appearance, bore the stamp and

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

seal of his profession as a gambler and
sharp.
His companion was plainly, at least so
St. Leon thought, not of his class. He,
had that open, fresh, hearty look which
the professional gambler never has; there
was health and strength in his movements.
Clad in white duck pants, dark coat
and vest-fitting neatly-a light summer
hat of the farhionableg$ray, a neat but not
showy watch chain and charms-these
attributes enumerated and you have the
man. That he was too honest in appear-
ance for the company he was in was no
great discovery for St. Leon to make.
As they leaped from the vehicle the
elder individual exclaimed,," Come lot's
have a drink.
" That's me I" was the reply.
But, as he stepped upon the veranda,
he caught sight of the two women who
were just then testing the virtues of
another cobbler and punch.
The blonde scarcely noticed him, but the
brunette gave him one glance only. He
was "struck."  The glamour of fascina-
tion at first sight was upon him as it has
been upon thousands since woman's crea-
tion. The miser who would not give a
cent to save a fellow being from starvation
will barter all he has, and his soul into
the bargain, to win the smile of a woman,
The glance shot out from those dark
eyes acted upon that young man like .a
magnet.
ie stepped across into the room where
they were seated.
The mystery of the women and their.
object began slowly to develop itself.
He bowed. While the.blonde demurely
turned partly away the brunette looked
him squarely in the face as if to read his
character and nature thoroughly, yet her
look was not bold. There was a thin pre-
tence as if of surprise in it at his temerity.
Missing him for the moment his com-
panion, the sharper clad in gray, caught
sight of him; then went to the threshold
of the door and beckoned.
But the victim was enthralled. The
dark eyes of the brunette were upon him,

En

43

had thrilled him, and he was in for a '
"lark."I
Was his companion trying to save himI
Again he bockonid-the two came to-
gether a moment-then St. Leon, still
sitting on the veranda, beard the man
in gray exclaim, as if thoroughly dis
gusted with the   other's infatuation,
4 Pve warned you-I've nothing to say.
As for me, d--d if IPm to be caught in
that way. Im off.n
They parted. The younger returned
to the women and ordered wine and
luncheon, while the 'sharper sprang into
the carriage, and drove rapidly away.
Presently the party, now seemingly on
the best of terms, arose and strolled down
towards the beach.
Keeping them in sight, St. Leon fol-
lowed.
The play began to be interesting to him.
The brunette and the young gentleman
were certainly charmingly intimate for
such a short acquaintance. The blonde
seemed almost neglected. They went in
for a bath.
The beach by- this time began to be
crowded.
After bathing, as they came down from
the dressing-house, St. Leon passed them.
As he did so he beheld ahead of him
and crossing the beach a few hundred
yards off, the shaper in gray, whomhe
supposed had driven back to the city,
and abandoned his friend.
A little distance up the shore and sep-
arated from a long row of bathing-houses
by a wide open space of ridgy sand and
stunted grass stood an old desertedshanty,
and directly in front of it lay a great heap
of seaweed and brush. Still with his
face turned toward the group he hurried
rapidly toward this shanty. He had
scarcely entered it, when three men came
out of it walking quietly, and taking a
wide circuit, reaching the centre of the
beach directiy in a line with the ap-
proaching party, who were coming on
slowly at some distance behind.
As the three then executed this ma-

nouvre the sharper at the shanty had
placed himself partly in the shadow and
stood'gazing toward thbiparty as intently
as if he were watching the progress of a
desperate battle.
The three men halted upon the beach,
and one of them soon revealed the nature
of their business by the sudden setting up
of a three-card monte rig, an exceedingly
simplecontrivance. This being done, one
or two other apparently disinterested in-
dividuals came strolling up. He knew
these must be, by their unnistakable
" get up," the cappers and steerers for
the game.
St. Leon turned from them, and lo I di-
rectly behind him came the brunette and
blonde with their new-found escort. He
appeared perfectly happy.
Nearer and nearer to this little open-
ing for business approached the two girls
and their compamon.
And nearer, too, sauntered St. Leon.
He heard one of the cappers ask the
others: " Isthata 'Sat' "between them?7"
And the other answered, " Stash it,
dy'er ever see Lib without one down
here ?"
As the party came still nearer to the
noble and refining game of three-card
monte the rappers began making a great
show of being utter strangers to the op,
ration and played the part of innocent
but interested strangers with a degree of
perfection which would have done them
credit upon the stage.
St. Leon glanced over toward the
old shanty. There, still watching like a
tireless sentry, stood the sharper.
In a few moments more the brunette
and her companion, her face flushed with
the exercise, and his with excitement over
what he considered his easy conquest,
while the blonde with no special change
in her appearance, except that she had
become, as we have seen, upon familiar
terms with the "Flat, "  were within
reaching distance of the monte table.
" Oh, Minnie," said the brunette," there's
,hat game I was telling you about yester-

I

I'
1.

11


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

44                BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

day-let's look at them. I should like to
bet something just for the fun of it."
The gallant-who evidently was no ex-
pert in the mysteries of this sort of thing
-made no objection to the fun. So blind-
ed was he in his not-at-all strange in-
fatuation for the girl that nothing short
of an earthquake could have brought him
to kee what a fool he was making of him-
self. By listening closely to them
St. Leon discovered his name, or rather
the one which he had given her. She
said, "Come, Mr. Devoe, what time is it 'I
Isn't it late?"
He took out his - watch-a fine gold
English lever, a Frodsham probably-and
answered her.
The two cappers glanced at it, and at
each other.
Then for the first time St. Leon noticed
a stealthy, almost imperceptible sign of
recognition pass between the dealer of
the monte and the brunette.
So, so, the plot thickens, and is deeper
than we thought.
The " tuae of day " was then a stall,
that the cappers and dealer could learn
at sight the value of the victim's watch.
The gambling valuation of such an
article is averaged at one hundred dollars
for a gold, and twenty-five for a silver
"ticker."-
Meanwhile he watched the proceedings
closely.
" I'll bet ten dollars, Minnie," said the
brunette, "I can tell what card that is."
" Well." said the dealer, "I don't like
to bet with ladies, ma'am - but just forthp
fun of it, I will."
So the bet was made, much against the
will of the young man, the " Flat."
She placed her finger upon the card.
It was turned, and she had guessed
right and won.
The dealer doesn't mind the loss but
smiles over it as if it were a matter of
course that he should lose. He now takes
up three cards.
" Perhaps the ladies and gentlemen
think these cards are too much worn. I'll
change them for a new set.

CHAPTER XX.
TEE CONTINUATION OF THE LITTLE GAME..
As he spoke he made a motion to place
them in the breast pocket of his coat.-
" No, no, we don't want 'em changed,"
said one of the cappers, "let 'em be;
them's good enough."
"Of course we know these, and new
ones might not be so lucky for us. Be-
sides," this she said to her victim, that is
his name now; "I'm going to win some-
thing more."
"Very well," said the dealer. "Just as
you say." But even as lie spoke and
withdrew his hand from his pocket, St.
Leun saw that he had changed the cards
and produced a new set.
"No, no change; I'll hide the same
three." He threw the cards upon his im-
provised table.
" Now then," continued the dealer, "I'll
bet three hundred dollars that no gentle-
man can turn the jack of hearts. Any
gentleman can bet; I'm ready. Three
hundred dollars that no gentleman can
turn the jack of hearts! "
"I haven't so much money as that,"
said the brunette, throwing one of her
witching glances at her victim, at the same
time, with a pretended sigh of regret,
looking into her peat little pocket-book.
" What an awful sum of money that is!
But if I had it I'd bet it that I know which
is the jack of hearts as you call it.'
Was innocent simphcity ever so charm-
ingly imitatedI
" Yes, and so would I," chimed in the
blonde, with a fascinating naivete, and
giving the 'FlatI the benefit of a be-
witching glance with her blue eyes.
Then one of the cappers put in his verbal
oar, speaking, however, in a tone just loud'
enough to be heard only by the two women
and their prey, "Let's raise the money
among us, each put up what we've got.
Miss there got the card dead sure."
" What's the use of putting up so high I
You know none of us ain't got no such
stake as three hundred dollars! Come now
let u, a bit," said the other capper to the
dealer.

At this instant, St. Leon standing near
and apparently an uninterested speaker,
thought of the sharper who had driven the
light wagon up to the hotel.
He looked'over toward the old shanty.
The man was there, but he had moved
back a little further into the shadow, and
bis foot was no longer resting upon the bit
of seaweed.
Still his gaze was fixed upon the group
around the three-card monte game, and he
seemed as motionless as the wind-wrecked
shanty beside him.
"Not a cent less than three hundred
dollars, gentlemen," said the dealer in that
hard metalic tone peculiar to his class, and
with'a pretense of not noticing the two
women.
St. Leon drew still closer, forhe saw that
the plot of the swindlers was rapidly cul-
minating to a finale of success. Blindly
lured to his fate through his infatuation
for the dark-eyed enchantress whose hand
at that moment carelessly, as if by acei-
dent, rested upon his shoulder, the young
man drew his pocket-book.
"Let me see, ladies, how we can fix it.V
Then turning to the brunette-"  you're
sure you know the card 1"
She gave hima glance-that was enough.
Away with caution, common sense;, their
power melted away before.'the burning
sensual sparkle of the "trained wanton's
eyes like ice in the heat ot the summer
sun.
"Let me see," he repeated, taking out a
roll of bills.
We'll go in fifty dollars-twenty-five a
piece," said each of the cappers.
"You're ,very obliging," said the bru-
nette, laughing. "Well,'here's my ten."
"4Poor me, and I've nins," said the
blonde.
At this moment, as the young man was
counting the roll of bills, we saw the dark-
eyed sorceress look tiowrd the old'slinty,
where stood the sharper; she gave a nod.
ie answered the signal by one in re-
St. Leon 'would have gi4exi something
handsome in the way of rewardif the vic-

1!

tim could have seen just then what we
did.
" Now, then," he said, here'ss two hun-
dred dollars."
"And here's my ten," put in the bru-
nette.
"No, keep that," said the victim as un-
conscious as a babe of the stall being
played upon him. "This is all I've got,
but you're suie you know the card I Yes.
Then we're all right, and we'll have a gay
old wine supper over our winnings."
" Come, gentlemen," said the dealer
"There's my three hundred dolla-,s, solid
cash, nothing less."
"Oh cme," said one of the cappers.
"This gentlemen's got two hundred, and
here's our fifty ; call it an even bet of
two-fifty."
"Not a red less than than three hun-
dred. If the gentleman with the two
hundred hasn't any moro money conve-
nient, and he's so sure of winning, I'll give
him a chance; I'll take his check for the
balance, or any kind'of security."
The victim's pride was touched. He
had waded into the stream; - ware he to
falter or show the white feather now, hO
would lose his hold of the enchantress at
his side.
There had gathered eight or ten morb
of the strollers on the beach around the
spot, and their presence added an ther
stimulus to his action.
"Oh, I do wish I was near home, rd
soon get the money,' exclaimed the bru.
nette..
That sentence settled it with her b6-
witched victim.
"l1ere,"he said, taking out his watch and
dethching the chain from the button-hole;
will this do in place of the extra fifty. It's
worth-"
" Oh, don't do that," pleaded the bru-
nette. "Don't. risk your watch on ac-
co6un; of my foolishness. Perhaps, 'fte
all I might not tfirn the ight card, and
then--but I'm so certain-hever niid,
letfsg6on dojA the'beach."
This iade hinil the iore eager. The
glaiiodr of an illiit desire was upon hini,

I


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

mingled with tnat other and equally as
enthralling passion, that of winning.
Satan is represented as a male. It is a
mistake.  The spirt of cool, heartless
calculating evil in one of these woiqen
was more'devilish and relentless than that
of a dozen Satans. And the ungloved
hand of the brunette, as she uttered her
hollow plea to prevent hi parting with
his watch, was toying with a golden cross
suspended from a golden chain over her
heart..
Satan cowers, so the preachers tell us, in
the presence of that symbol; the woman
toys with it.
" Oh,,pshaw," said the victim. "Here,
it's oply for a moment; tai e it."
The watch was deposited with the two
hundred and the cappers' fifty.
"Now then, gentlemen.'
The crowd pressed forward.
The brunette, with her arm clinging to
her prey, who, as the supreme moment
which was to decide the wager, approach-
ed, became terribly anxious.
"If you please," said the brunette, her
face lighting up with a gleam of triumph
as she reached out her hand towards the
three cards.
"This is- the ' card, THE JACK  OF
HEARTS I "
$je turned it.
'Every eye was fixed upon the young
man's face.
The card was the deuce of hea,rts,
Watch and money was gone! The
dealer gathered in the stakes and put up
big eards.
"ify God, is it possible," exclaimed the
victim, "money, watch-rnot a cent left I"
The brunette led him away, and with
the witching of her warmly but low spoken
expression of sorrow, soon soothed his
feelinqgof disappointment.,
With the blonde jnd brunette on either
side of him,, completely inthe toils, he
slowly walked toward the lotel.
St. Leon heard the brunette Satan say to
him as they passed from his hearing,
"Never mind, my ten dollar bill is left.
I will' lend it to you. We will have some

wine, and when you see me in-" He
heard no more then.
St. Leon glanced toward the old shanty
The sharper was -tiere no more. The
monte ,dealer was slowly moving further
down the beach followed by the cappers
and presently, from behind a row of the
dressing houses beyond, emerged the
sharper-or really the steeredr " of that
profitable job-and joined his fellow
swindlers.
CHAPTER XXI.
SOME RECOGNITION AND PLANS.
Sr. LEON sauntered thoughtfully back
to the hotel, reseated himself- upon the
veranda and lighted a fresh cigar.
The features of therblonde were famil-
iar to him, and as for the sharper who had
kept solitary vigil at the old slianty-hi%
face, too, now came back as one that he
had met elsewhere-where he could not
recall.
As he sat there ruminating upon the
probable fate hereafter of the' victim of
these male and female swindlers, he felt
a tap upon the shoulder.
He-looked up.
He had heard no step, so that the light
and unexpected touch of the hand start-
led him from his reverie. He looked up,
and beside him stood the blonde heroine
of the day's work.
" Mr St. Leon, can I speak with you a
moment."
St. Leon!
How should she know his name. Yet
as she looked down upon him there came
to him the dim photographic 'memory,
an indistinct familiarity in the face, but
to trace it in its present guise was
impossible.
He made no betrayal, however, of hi.
real thought-he waa too thorough a man
of the world for that.
"You see I know you, although you ma r
not remember ,me--s by,the expression
of your features I amIn'clined to thin4
, ou do not," said theblonde.
"As you are now," he replied yleaa

V

antly,"I certainly admit I do not recog-
nize you."
" Ah !" she said, and as she spoke she
glanced around nervously. "Perhaps I"-
she broke off abruptly, and then said in a
low tone-" Lib is listening-or rather,
both watching and listening."
" LibI-OhI "St Leon turned his glance
away for the moment.
He saw as he said this the sharper of
the shanty slowly walking across the
sands.
"I thought that fellow had disappeared
altogether, and there he is," he thought.
The blonde seemed to hesitate.
Then she whispered-" I will see you
again, Mr. St. Leon, in a.few moments."
"Very well,"he replied.
The sharper came nearer, came up upon
the veranda, and merely giving St. Leon a-
casual, but as that individual noticed, a
shaip inspection-passed on into the bar-1
room of thehotel.
"I know him now," mentally exclaimed
St. Leon. "I recognize him now, as well as
if he were an old familiar friend. How
the faces of those we detest come back to
us ! I know him now."
He took from his pocket the photograph
of the'man of the St. Denis hotel steps.'
"It is the sante, I'll be sworn."
While he was looking at it, the blonde
came to him again.
"Come with me," she said.
St. Leon looked up into her face. There
was an expression of singular earnestness
which impelled him to consent, although
he hid his doubts as to her motive.,
He followed her. Not into the dining-
room, not into any remote portion of the
veranda, but to an upstair chamber.
Then-the two being there, she closed
the door and locked it.
St. Leon looked in somewhat of as-
tonishment:   ,
41 Y ou have locked the door ."'
"46Yes.7'
49 That is not right)
"Every thing, -Mr. St. Leon, is right
whbh will bring justice to all."
.Certaizly, but what has justice to d

with a closed door; 'or an interview be
tween strangers I"
"Justice has no single abiding place
Justice is everywhere. She may choose
to bide herself for a while but she wili
surely in the end appear. Time is justice.
for time brings to all in the end-relief."
St. Leon listened. He began to have p
better opinion of the blonde.
"You wonder at the locking of the door.
If you desire it I will unlock it. What I
had to,say to you was private; as private
positively as the personal bank account of
Alex Stewart."
" Certainly if what you have to say is
private-no better place than this could
have been chosen," said St. Leon. "Coney
Island is not quite so. public a place as
Broadway, to my thinking."
"You can be seated if you like, or  f
you prefer standing we can converse
equally as well. Here "-as she spokeshe
handed him the key of the door-" here is
the.key, you can keep it until our inter-
view ceases. You see that I know your
name. I, know more of you than that.
Now listen to me. I saw you here yester-
day, but*I preferred not to acknowledge
the recognition. You were close upon us
through the whole time we were, down
upon the beach. Now, candidly confess to
me before I proceed further, what special
object had you in view in thus playing the
spy upon the party?"
, St. Leon smiled. Then he answered--
" In what manner will our interview, or
what you mxay have to say be influenced
by such a confession.? However, I will
confess so much as this: that in watching
you and your confreres in swindiing--"
" Swindling 1"
"I know no other name for the busi-
ness-in watching you, and your cop-
freres my principal object was to gee how
great a fool a man in the toils .f design-
ing women cot1dmake of himself, and how
beneath their smiles and losing glances
and tender manifestations oft regard they
could so adroitly. conceal ,o upuchjoold,
heartless depravity."
" You're quite a philosopher, S, Leon.

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

46

-47

1-
1'


'I

Now, sir, as an appendix to that frank con-
fession, you should add that your own ex-
perience in the art of swindling enabled
you to more readily appreciate the per-
formance of other experts in the same
line." )
"I was not aware that my character
was open to such grave suspicion."
" Well, well, this sort of badinage is
useless, we can indulge in that amusement
at some more fitting opportunity. St.
Leon, I said I knew you, yet you do not
recognize me 1"
"Really, I do not."
"Did you recognize the man who
passed us but a few moments before we
came up here I The same who yesterday
came here with Lib's companion '1"
"I d not at first, since then I have
recalled him; I do know him now, perfect-
ly."
" Did you recognize the young man who
came with him?",
69I never saw him before. However, my
memory of faces is not always the most
perfect, it is like all human attributes-
treacherous."
"You are married, and it is of your
marriage I have to speak, for it is that
which has brought about this interview.
As I know there is a cloud between
you and your wife--a distrust on your part
and a fear on hers-"
" This is strange knowledge for you, a
stranger, to possess in reference to ny
private affairs."
" She told you she came from New Or-
leans, did she not ?"
" She-she did."
" And she revealed to you a very pretty
romance of her own life-eh 1"1
St. Leon made no answer. The wotnan

before him seemed an enigma.
4 She even made you-a man of the
world, 'an adventurer-believe it ?"
" I have no reason to disbelieve it. Is
there no truth in womankindf" he half
answered, half questioned, bitterly,
She smiled, then a shade of sad earnest-
ness crept over her' features as she con-
tinued.                     .

"Now let me enlighten you. Weeks
ago I intended to have seen you personal-
ly, but circumstances intervened which
postponed the satisfaction of my desire.
Your wife never saw New Orleans!"
"What !"
"Her parents of whom she spoke so
affectionately died during her infancy."
"Go on-this is becoming interesting."
"The man whom you met here but a
little while since was her paramour-had
been her paramour-her lover if you like
the word better-for two years before you
saw her for the first time,"
" Well!"
"But the man who betrayed her, who
first led her into the dark depths out of
which even your love, or the love of any
human being will never lift her, the man
who loved her to distraction and, left her
heart cold and sordid to all the world
beside, is the man who was the victim of
the three-card monte game on the
beach !"

"Well, this is sensational,, whatever
may be its veracity. It is a delicious bit
of seasoning between the crusts of thispie
men call society. Go on, you see I am
calm, unruffled, as if I were listening to
the pleasant story of a boon companion
told over a glass of sparkling hock."
"Your wife is my sister / 4
"What next '1"
"This man, the sharper as you choose
to -term him, is not so bad as he seems.
He was once what the world calls a re-
putable member of society; with his fall,
if fall there was in his conduct, I have
nothing to do at present."
St Leon threw himself back upon a
lounge in a half reclining posture.
" The name ofthis admirable friend of
my wife is Moquard 1" said St. Leon.
"Yes-I was not sure you knew it."
"How- can I, avoid it when here, upon
the back of this photograph of his exebed-
ingly attractive countenance, it Is written.
Now pray inform me what is the namni of
this other interesting and devoted friend,
the original friend I may add, of .thbwo-

~1

LAWYER DRILL RECEIVING A CLIENT.

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

48

I

'gD


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

ian who has the honor to bemy wife -
this vietiiii
"Hiqname is Pawridge, and he is ud y-
inor ti isinitry. She luglied oitright
as shesAils.""piettyspecnimefisn't
he, towretch! Now thin, St. Leon,
tell   is itinot right this man should fall
int, be ed into the diepth4,'tep by'step,
until lilinis whit it is "  e friendless,
despised scorned by the worid!"
"There is .too mpch vitality !A that
young gai t sink olo'1 said St. Leon
slowly, s f consideriughis words.. '$I
questipn whether he con- be"  o educed.
.'T   .a
Re will sink 39fqrandthep-"-
"Strike ae  of ugk, fortune . ifyou
9S e     g  A   h  - - a  g   u p g i g
be  ettW thsg he is now -be femtedan
*coxteI aworslupe4.   Ie ps good lok
ing, hasjust the air and manner to win
please women, and as a ypqng muter he
oidbe'a card."
"St. Leo;,jhave mde thesp discls-
ures to you--tI,;tie sistex-ot yur, wife.
Yonirgepogpitign pfme nnlya,alancy, and
YQha ,s~genqmr fro14repb0Ys~n
features pAffr8. St., Leon., DytpWi that
you do know me,.lessw 4ertas4,o
another. t  dWyg-yyu ay1hebufefulo
to me. As fer(M1qird#,lband myister
.r9-l  hdsg~ss-ou(eeyhsgego
(eg ofierit~A tqa4axto&amp;ponUuim,
.   e     alt o thoughtof revengerestj
But ugeIn tbia young:1 pyrigqe 1wet
only infamously first betrayed my aister,
but thencagt lrof, soJ# 40r Abstbr hej
might be free to ri  pthera----poxbie
Ishall tohtr              option.
74i1 , egpf~qderate .,9 W- ns;  ib gAsrI
alLyhpr,- basIAiin m, b her ,,i, ;butAit
a  atnd, M9q44d who 4 oth esplotting
make, the plansi- slp isoly--joi1qur lln
.too 1She, tOQ, ;has iberdry  of Wttons
~n4 9~ge whiishiavedriven hr dawn,
. Nooyar1bioee4 dymwhookowta-4
interview is i lY IA14 filatbfJtI
4

I9

I

1

of plunder and revenge upon this .ytoAwg
attvridge-eh'      '     "
' If you 0hose"to c)nsider it Ih that
lirhty fes."
'Hwisittliis'awridge dodnriotrecog-
nize yb'a asThb "istoi-"of the gir he be"
trayed?"
" '"Simply because during his acquabi-
aide' and intihaie  with hr I *as i
Boston."      -  .
" Why in Boston 11" he asked.
"Beeaijse-because I was'hld there; for
there-strange fatality-waglit n6t II was
undergoing the same agony that wrecked
my sister here. I was lhen led away by
the glamourfof the old, old dream, out of
Which women awaken to ja d themselves
wrecks-the dream of love of-of -- Well,
let that go," her tone became for the mo-
il4 6ftes  id ka isiv  eab1it 'iper
's~i      xtickeies o  nrihoks'hotla
mAc 61 4et'dgii.A1  1 tlJ1
~  '    r    ~      anN-r i;uh .
Sshaln t trob h.  hveii
i 4efad d 2  ihy bp
ec      b  1   eit011 U g*0 . "M f  i)
ei e 6ieE&amp;6otha
shall not trouble him. I have 19 i ir
.andthe
6 d
yh
4%  tit4  16eenWi,
t   o  &amp;i0 Q dhf,         u    iiA


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

'I
'F

wait as you can wait. Woman's life ,is 1 D
short at best and her days of strength and  m
health and power are few-very few, Bad h
as I may have been, bad as .I may be
forced to be in the-future, I shall not for- t
get this man who wronged my sister."  t
"You are a strange woman," said St. q
Leon, rising. "All women are mysteries, c
only they can furnish the solution of them- -
selves. But--"               -
"What else, Cynic?"
" But they are a great convenience,
alike to good men and knaves."t
CHAPTER XXIL
GLENHAM AND EDITH-TIE BEGINNING OF
THE END.
A PRECTOUS worthy, lot$ were they not,
this St. Leon, iadame Mognarld, the,
sharper MQquard, the youngPawridge, and'
the blonde sister -of the hd4ameI Let
.ussee in the end to what good atd,&amp;ample
reward they all come, as in-thAeyarious'
degrees they step upont thestage and dis-
appear upt, the close of the little life
drama in which the fates cast theik parts.
And soleaving their past livgs, of which'
as much as is necessary has bpeu given
to explain their character, and the sort of
filling they are between the crusts of.So-1
ciety, let us 'esume the play with another
scene and with thp people alrady failiar
ebert    ea     t        aristocratic
quarters, and -anullar with Madame fe-
quard, more so since the gand reuniont
Shugg's mansion, had.legan, the work to
whicp he destpod his life. With ample
meananow at ciscommand; with the rep-
utioof         n      bo ,the foruuno
hohad reafl  , atij,9n dwiti husy-
tongued obseqiong gpsilp a.eyery, wpis-
per increasing itUntil in certan-quarters
he was regarded as amillionaire, ertainly
as yet there was no elu rising between
his   pe and lghe p pect pf its fruition
That yeging ,at t    oper-bringiig
with it the lntaductiou to Edith, the
daughter of his former persecutor, ,Jerome

)uval, and the sister of his dead. wife-
nay be marked as the opening scene4oe$
is retribution-as he called it.
It did not require many ndoinents of in-
ercourse-although the conversation be-
ween the acts was of that stereotyped
quality which usually prevails in thallofty
ircle which invariably considers the pri-
vateboxasits inalienable prerogative atall
places of amusement---for Glenham to read
her nature, nor did hbe fail to discover be-
neath her assumption of gaiety an under-
tone of sadness, as if there had settled al-
ready upon her young muind a cloud of
grief. Little did he dream that the cause
of whatever mental distress the fair young
girl-was enduring was brought abduteby
the revelation to her of his ieath and the
terrible close of her sisterW lie-a sister
whom she never kliew-si'tW  who e
existence even her-mother had hiddenfrom
her.
Stern and implacable as death itself,
Glenham, bad he known it, wo6id not have
been moved froi-hispurphse.
Jerome. butal mugt asufter, And suffer
uost. through and ftom' those who were
dearest to hiiUart, the %rideof hisOride;
,nor teare, nor entreities---nothing could
bave moved Glenbam.
And tisrs6lve,-what was it
No lmre or less etan to exe-t himself,
yt all the powerWillhIe'pessessed, by
every arfice his inventiou coula bring 1to
-      wbear, to agiatiie himself da her etes-
:tion, to win her esteem, t he  love, and
then-.
-What dark kind ,telrible-Adenonbment
should close thk act t  -      -.
-Tie opera of -"Traviata"ivasafit prelude
Sto wiat-might 'l lW. In his bet int&amp;r-
view with her he-cdntrived toimpresshr
with asende Ofhiseentleness and culture.
,There was visible 'iWihis dsportinent no-
evidence of the dtiiikrhis manner 'Was
grate; yet pleasant,and he adroitly miaA-
aged to lead the oiwveraation iftoentifn
of siiohEubjects as he knewbeetboew to
naagg Antwhiclwould Anabl hiin to
mnake the desired impressionn:
When theyiparted lie sag eerly'thatin

this his lArstzstep ie had without doubt,
succeeded.I
"The rest will be easy," he stid to him-
self as huhandediher to the carriage and
bade b er baddew." There she 'gbes, - the
daughter of Jerotfe Duval-aid toher
home-to fhis hme. I fancy he will yet'
have, cause t reneinbee George Jaffray
and him:d~itghiter,'dying of starvfitioi ii
that PellStteet cellar!"
CHAPTER XXIIId
LOUISE TRA01O  AND GLENHUM MEET AT
E  O~EOHFE ECHOES. a'
Toisay that- Mr. Olu$-hitmn4uthed ovtr
theungrcious, not to say ,rMIh treat-
mont:he had received at the hinds of'the
Reverend Mr. Pawridge would be to give
exegediuglilg name to the nat re
ofhis feelings.a
1:Revelige 11-
HelidiA4 meditate anything trbl6e.4
murdering, assassintienpoilu,dagg're,
or matters'of such'lieadful notlweb9etot
in his line. " ithirsted4  re+ake/he
didhti belle for- it/bat' lie Matod it-
wanted toWbef'eii; kiek' for hiek, Wth a
balaiedin-his favor on Aecount of-iuutreet.
dhadnarrated'te Mru. Ifa*Hdge his
1ste dea iOtie anilignoalnnious expaleidn
meithg    ggmaloni;;le bad Yeven
Vold hiswifd,ythe ta1dnted Mtdani 'Griil-
ao,bu tthbdnI1omfoib he r edIwasia
'1 T Strve&amp;rdu'ght4 frornthe Griigo and
. Whii wertL d ik hnd, deserved, #orto
i sage/kitom;MrsdPad'ridge.
.,A  forMr.Pawridge he  had. dIled
to'thi 'ofcliamtad only in th  moit
'O&amp;mpliientdry Aerms pof Mr. Glutchit
heragokA "_ika weak add errihg'brdtbei,
andihetfforgrve-him from the b-ottom iof
hisM veity arge and deep heartt, eeni as
through theIgreatVrincipleof lve,' abid-
, i4g love-forall of hislkind he fokg e
everybody grnd everything.
'Clutchit, notwithstanding the sanidti~f!
of hove, had his doubts'as to-th q'uaity
'f lverend Mr. Pawridge'eAffeti6n for
4im, and Atherefore s'ougbt &amp;e fatherr
9erhoda inercoulnsewith- Ellehait *ho'

lambs of hisili-ek'si Yed6 h4A o~ti-
covered anything in the"ao' evnc
which wi at 'all  fdia6ry o'ia m-
He had etenM selli    ild' o-
hasel dilv$ dat ik' his" daibaki&amp;6in pa-
iied by'fuioftt6oing dufetd  V
but wlit fhiIit:t litch  t~ui oi.
1 * him. 'eloMd6'i8        t
'ihg ailidi timinug tha'ith 91I6s9'd, y re
dift' e"di l nua  hoo
and that he returit&amp;nO uni'th'e
Hh ei. '"  l"  i  l
W I e new Vtli EAmh, d a2g w fr

had so fiercely'endeavored to convert his
'initomy into a bootjack.
But revenge is 'a sweet child to nrs,
'even if it is' killed fi-om ove  care. Too
raueh nursing kills stionger dating tihut
revenge very oftet.'
Clutehit was not over httbntive to 'his
bantlinget it occasionally reminded hirh
that it possessed vitality.
Clutchit resolved, therefore to get not
only "even" with his' reverend perse-
cutor,,but also to be quits withibM6 belov-
ed Gringo, who so. unneroifully sf late
had ignored his conjugal' authority, and
even 'at times-under the .eoinmofi-pretert
that he , was "beastly, drunk1ie efused
him admission to his Iown domicile.
As for Mrs. Pawridge, he had onlyfaith
in berso far as her dollerdwent- He dould
not certainly be expe'ted!-to have, much
faith in a woman, or anylarge:'amountof
respect for her, wheph rpqortp4t  the
con teintipg process 9f privge, detegotirp
eponage olber lipbAgo,
VDTe pne        r  lthd peP
undest pdipg   , su    of the4 eM
ployers than p4t o4 t tqqe  y pgrgp,,
Cluehit in his private capacity, Iad
nade it hisbu iess toudestendthe ia-
tude of' Mrs.   yideo   itofdher
clerical hibsiaide ha had anune asaint
not to                      wOeP, na
didn't cArs t eceive any'eu i epn
'0.1 pans,

so

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

51

iii

'4


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

53

1

many hour in one or another of the photographed upon .her memory aS were
houses he visited, but as they were all of those of her lost brother.
the ighept brown-stope and high-stoop  She ha-d visited Jerome-Duval but once
,respectpility, nothing else dared be im- in reference to the subject, andthe visit
agined than that .the pastor was there confirmed her in the belief thatthis in.
administering Christian consolation and terest in her success'wass :  tere matter.
bringing #hn a nd peace to..the minds of, of dollars and cepts; that oly Ao far ,a
the dearly beloved and loving doves of his it might relatively affect 4ie oputatio
congregation.                         of his hous . would he .sxhigj1any ear
What 'is a fashionable and popular whether she abandoned thepparei::tQo
pastor *orhif he can not visit and enjoy day or a year hence.
social amenities iand other luxuries of A very monarch of self-he was the ge-
first.lassphigh.tonedireligion with his feb. nius of self. I g
male paishione   - Is ,he not their pa  Any further payment to any patties, ci
tor, their shepherd, their saintly middle- the amount deposited-by the p&amp;sonator
man, the'iaster of eremonies who is to  of Robert Trainor had beon stoppedp-End
point .them to that particular 'place in her seepad visit to the bankig-house
Heaven where the green and blue-blooded had been with reference to ,this apeeial
elect shalit find 'perpetual Paradise and Obje'vt
perpetua I freedom 'from the vulgarities of  deeply sympatldse with yeu, Miss
the pooriadlw bornI i                 Trainor," he said, in his usualsteady  e-
rhat1a tlil ?reand Mr. Pawridge's  "Thank you,' she replied, i  mutem-
usie    m andMi-."lutchit, not being of pathycomou onlM9y-d"UV0l."
their "set," 6eldit be expected, even   .afraid yow have aade a" serious
mistakeinnot ,armitting thepolice to
lif h(*ire an~didhiiiiene*dect
dee-  take hold of this aelatcholy-?  I
te.. ytery o'hs            r" Duval; y$1Uow         elenoVghhovr
of utfiitidnita,*ind o%gion.   -           .j
of 6 .ils&amp;1 , ~nd'   , x  .f.n, muchof interest, thL polieewold hava in
go le made   v      64iue o necessity and.  hat care those prpressipnal detee-
ga  ar    ge a wide rngn, and    ives about the f cse!ag they eanll4 1) is
frs. aw!dge a vry,   go and volumi- thopoey, the toward. ;it hbngs Athem
nPus a    nco ftea       y  proceeding ';hey jsr paid;a salt  dodtheiz dutyi
avgat the thinnest sort. Were theirsalar tber onlykieome!tiey
utth        as  noher detective-an . daredto xpechjtheywand holdtheirt:
-ywe 11 ho was working, whp: e no leger)han  heyeeuldgteout' *f
pad beeiw9rkmng, 4nd who wouid work 4t into their original mnexpationsi solte?
ou day and igt tp accomplisi her pur' are corrupt,. elefsh.iohoe'm tolsnr
pQe? and whqs osiy hope in life lay in re iae, treachenajrandie esslffty-
its accompuushment.                  thing exceptgoino Ohl.,sir I ,haventried
Louise TraiippgliUsearching, stillisi- tibentomyVheart'ontent. Ineededonly
lent in that search, for her lost brother.  a very shod trial Their chief rjpwas
Of gypT ending him again in this life a1oney. Mneyjfor expnseng  oubfor
shebadpo    peotatio;o her only desire this, 3pngy far thgt purpos*n lwheni
was apip  Meet faeptlofee, no matter they foppnd I was not willing; M 4Pay 
where or upder what cirgupnstances, the all my income Ao better ebnl~etbemU to do
man    g oR th9 r apof uer visit to the nothing but coutrye how i*;4raw ovoe
.ip d-yose Pf Jepome IDIyal had prer  oneyfroin me,:they betaryi -ifeir mna-
sen    imseltate tpdoor and hadclai- tures iquily,enoughj and cpoly p0ernVe4
d tbe RobeI Iaior. ,me that ly,I had better abgp                  o
It was a face she imagined she wonld .pursuit,4  Would. be ggewes' j%$
.,e)j#. ap- -a          m       .e Muieji
pqvr frge-it pulins  gas plaiply -,MT, Duvqlbave mad ,W oisp  ak

"rrfsdMc9n which Lottise' Tralue
and Gleihtfum &amp;I~t h the 'ee'dnaditns
was ofi df 'thisfrge'shaAblingb     of
browra-tone b        gockI iouss'tlie eliapd of
which is precisely like that of a diyd-
dIt
h ll s  roolhy as a he* graeyar'd the
always wide and lofty, the stairs as broad

ahdIviwll+ohtinue the searchimftil either
IteaaWahy thefnystery of his disappear -
kneeamd having his murderer to justine or
death;end 4ij own ,aeer."
Dtiviimrn    0*ly1bo'we4  e began tor r'gf
htNlfer'it#  mild drt of' nthusist,
riding up'in a pet hobby as fast as poesi-
bl'eittlimnicy.
Shdhad visitedatillpliesof anui~etnnt
1egleietaot oppotunitj which light b
S some fortuitous accident lehal her ieai'ex
S    theendf him dareh.  ,'    L1I
Stil~nd earr; $illall'va'gire,dout- t
ful, nothing but diseosragenmt.'
letgthotglishe kneit :iJ rioti, despite
be blihld'gropingthroughth&amp;4afktis,
despite her own mhisgivingesakith87"6bifte
clis *hieh segmed toris tveystevshe
madb,ahe Was is surely-mid sklftly teai
lngethoerevelation of'the ihysoery  a6she
cotild'hate wished'             "
Aihasn 'strnger than tuinan haud,
powev rs  er thmahuman power, was
leadimie her to' the denouemaent 6f dhe
strange arOac  bitt 'whether it *buld'reL
sult in the realization'of he worst fears or
once 0ttore brmg joy to her heart and ihe
light 'of love and hap''ness to h"r'dear
mother isadtyet to b'told.      I
Sh'e61dliid rusiGlebham but once tice the
rutid[.fritehti the $hrirgg's maiwio'n.4he
seediid tieetiigboetide ":dit is defitW
tau-bi'ngs who hhdd rokefti tog
front bendt'titihe top 1f the c istfind
seatit d taltiiih  a b'ing atilng the
soitibadiksP'"                  '
CHAPTER XXIV.
V4PT I' ''T1
r!4 OQpmpp M4 rus.HOv4E F up
F     N ''. 4 . 3l I

11I
i'l

'I

- 52

li-914BEN' 'THE -CR"t'TSTS.'

and high 'and straight as "the ballsud
stai's o'f sorme public edifice.
It was-the abiding place of a whole col-
o0i of echoes.
D      -i apiupo'l0   hiUrd wqd, piled
hll       f a and' out came a young echo,
i'vomi, A Ark corner, di toottepbrouiht
6t   wi nl     t jofn  echoes, upstairs,
downstairs, behind before, until one .by
ethey retreated ito silence to await
other cal".
Wiq aha    oz&amp;p rp  edn,  a oor
afcidentaq  alam Med, "ora04   Otighoor
servant ldr'opped hisard-gry  or a visit-,
or's cane,then out rushed a  o7,lple4Py
ndese    le echoes, To swWt  -on
after t  others   th y fairly jostled each
ether out ofsoundiack intdirvie yloss
retreats aka .
S iSpen ij theory wo s paS59d (11
t' air from echo to echo as if being
istA w s a fotbal by a 'pirt o   n
goblin,s.
'ha In the reception room and in the
p'arlokg, allWan ivastE anA lofty, and with
plasiey .cornice,.oild  orners, dark, niches
-   . ,  -  i s   .   Ii f  ,,  1
a     'And atAway cames, but half concealed
by old-fashioned high-back chairs 'ad
sofas, b heftiyhangngs of dark crimson
da'sn 1 iiuge     1t ar1dquaint  carved
f6the8;,ho od  wit1A "tI eir shadows
Aht   9 so old he' sednoem Ave Oben
paitebAbefoethe beginni    f ti   wth
el, these there were homes not  or 1ipran
sudeienftfor the echoes of crridors,
paildis and chambers r60i  basemen, to
roof.1~1
Is it any wonderthat insg h a.great
It,  ,  Ia,,,grea,
square apitocrtie 1arn, th  ehupId h
heirl those other anOreeifft   ehes
hay'g' boA  and shape-    e gossips of


54                 BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.B

is ghostly hour -f midnight when silence
and its sister soltude reigned supreme inI
the darkness.',
Those who occupied it were of the most
ancient of the republican aristocracy.
Beside them 'the Shrugga shrank back
aghast. Even Jerome Duval envied theseI
claimants of the blue blood of the Knick-
erbockers,  ,'' I   ,  .  . .      ,
The residences of these descndants of
the Schweitzer Deadstones, w)o were no4
doubt the original Dutch ,wbocaptured
Holland, and of the Shruggs, and of the
banker Duval were indicative of the char-
acter of the occupants.
The Shra'gg mansion was -a' bazaar of
flash, gilt, arid extravagance - modern,
new, and outre, every bit of it.
Duval's "home," was costly, magnifi-
cent, showing everywhere "ihe pride of
wealth but in no part, save Edith's apart-
ments, displaying the presence of refine-
ment or culture.
But the Echo mansion, solid, substan-
tial, and old; the furniture heavy and
massive, of a fashion then almost forgot-
ten, and everything imposing and impres-
sive.
To be sure, the occupants to.whom we
refer were not so much Knickerbocker,
save in their exclusiveness, as the Dea4
stones who preceded them,,but they were
the' top, on the very; topmost knob of
the top crust.
Judge if you can by these Deadstones
*hat appalling beings, how utterly un-
approachable to the vulgar crowd were
the Schweitzer Deadstones of Manhattan
who were intermingled by marriage' with
the Diedrichs, thIe Knickerbockers, the
Stuyvesants, the Kimmels, the Corlears,
and all the rest of those noble fainilies
who themselves were the immediate de-
scendants of the puissant blooded stock
who helped the Dutch to take Holland-.
The occupants, the Deadstones,'receiv-
ed only the highest class, tolerated the
Shrugs and Duvals, an4 were" merely,
oidescn4inglj Iffable with such ques
tionable tables as Madame the Count-
ess Moquard' and St. Leon,

With the Trainors, mothervand daugh
ter, they were more .than  rdiarily in-
miliar, the Trainors being oil verylold
stock, and withal, never had 4itermarried
any of the lower orders obIlater 4ate.
Robert Glen1a swas ma4e weWoD*
there through an introduction by one of
the "blooded stock," and Gleuham, who
had the early history of New York and
its ancient burghers at Is tongue's end,
quickly~made himself acceptable and was
received as one of the veritable  bloods."
Here, then, one day Louise Traiuor mak-
ing a call, met Glenham.
Since bio recognition of her at the
Shrgg fete as -being the original of the
carte de isitephotograph he had found
among the -papers' of -the victim of the
Pell, street horror, be had not seen her.
He dared not reveal what he knew. of'
the fate of her brother,-without incutfting
the risk of-himself being exposed, of hav-
ing, all his plans come .to naght, and,
perhaps, bring with it the suspicion that
he was even concerned In bringing about
the brother's terrible fate.
It was byiner accident that op this
particular afternoon Glenham had" drop-
ped "into this Peadstone mansion,.
Of the Deadstones there, was old:Dead-
stone, in ancient-cut. of coat, and pants,
patriarchal jeard, goldspectacles, weak
voice, sharp nose, few teeth, and a general
lai4-onethe-shelf appearance; Mrs. Dead-
stope, little, odd,,thin-lipped, loquacious,
neatly dressed, kindly in manner, and re-
garded by the servants as the .legitinate
head of the house; Miss Letitia Deadstone,
young, gay, sensible, homely as to feature,
elegant as to dress,: with a :good hon-
est smile for everybody (so everybody
thought who 'accepted what they beheld
as gospel truth); and a hearty welcome
ever ready for a few of thehigh-tonedfa-
vorites she ha4 taken int her confiednce
in that lofty circle inyhich they moved.
This conmpleted-these three-the fam-
fly group at hone.
There was a son, but he was off some-
where in Europe, playing billiards with
foreign nobs, or the deuce with foreign

q

ladies-at least he wrote so-andhe'never
wrote unleEs the necessity Of a fresb' de-
posit at his banker's camee necessary.
Louise Trainor was one 9f the Miss
Deadstone's f&amp;orite, and they we.ie often
together.
They were so seated together in one of the
great parlors, surrounded by a cordon 'of
high-backchairs with their grotesque carv-
ings Ad solemnly glared down upon by
two or three, dim-faced, faded-eyed por-
trait3, eind which a battalion of echoes
were no doubt lirg in wait ready to
bounce out into space at the fist available
opportunity.
Lis and Letitia seated side by side
upon a roomy, 4eep pld sofa, ;were evi-
dently' discussing some very, important
subject-impp#at atleast pethem-whei
the door bell tingled' away down in the
basement depths.
Then, surroundedbytheusualbodyguard
of echoes, came the step of a servant up
from those depths into the hall
The door was open.'
A pause, then the '4or of the parlor
was opened and a- stout-bodied narrow-
ishouldered servant entered and held out
his silver server.
Miss Deadttone took'the, card from it.
"Robert Glenha'm," she reati; thein
turned to Miss litinor- 'am so glad h(
has called,Twish youto seehim." To th(
servant-'I Show Mi.Glentham in."
Bowed the servant and 'retired. 'The
fn, a noieint' he re-enteiled annouiicini
with due formality and an additional bow
'Mr. Robrt Glenhan," and retired t
the depths again, his footsteps followed b,
the tireless'troupe of echoes.
"Goo4 morning,' Mr. Glenhain, T a
really happy tlit you have called so op
portunely."
"Why opporAinely, Miss DeadAtone i
queried Glenham, glancing at Miss Train
or, wlhon he recognized.
"So tat iay have the 'pleasure 4
introducing to you one of my friend
)iss Louise Trainor, I am sure you---"
1 certainlyy can not be, should'not 1

ether than delighted with the introduce.
tion," replied Glenham.
And then the mere'formalityof intro-
duction wai observed,'
tP-a yladifes, do not illow me to Inter-
rupt yont tetc-a-tete, I merelymade a pass
ing call.
"Don't mentn it, M.'Glenham. Come,
take possession of papa's favorite--this
Elizabethan chair. It Is-'
Thank you," interrupted Glenhan as
be obeyed the request, and then turning
to Miss Traior he said'.'
"I belie-re I had'the pleasure of meet-
ing you before,, at 'the reunion at Mrs.
,     ' replied 'Louige, o"I saw you
thecro, butthere was such a crush, the only
wonder is that one saw anybody, unless,"
she added in' a somewhat changed tone,
"unless one was in search -6f some partio-
ulat face;' some particular. person to thLe
exclusion of all else."
WYou were not thereon that mission
I trust I" said Glenham who had, noticed
the change in her tone, a faint suspicion,
crossing his mind that her werds might
have a deeper meaning.
t No--no--it was a mere thought , of
mine," She changed the subject, "You are
fond of the opera, Mr. Gienham'I"
'1 am, 'when it is opera and not the
'murder of music by a troup of blase, worn
artistes who are subsisting upon 'the rep-
utation of the voices theyhad generation
n ago."
S     And Gazzaniga--she is not worn," said
: Miss Deadstone.
o    "No, not worn in thestrict acceptation
y of the term. Her Violetta is as passionate
or grand in dramatic action and force as
n  whell, a few years ago, I heard her in
- Milan."
Considering Gldnham had never seen
Milan, or been nearer to it thlia the lower
- part of(Sandy Hook, his criticism mast be
taken at its true 'value.
of   But he was safe; he knew neither Miss
Ii Trainor or Mish'Deadstone had ever been
there, so that the reputation of having
be been a trans-Atlantic tourist, and a' so-

iij

[

f 1L

I
BEtWEE'N VIE CRUSTS.                  55

I


56

BETWEEN THE CRUST

:1

joqurnerda inJe art centresf Europa was
cheaply gained.,
e knsw. that it,as ,qnofe worpan's
foibles to admire theE wadrgr, theg
traveled nip g4fleisure, who have strayed
otamong the dukesgobles,pyramids,roy-
al courts, batacombs, abbeys, and other
criosities of-othp lands they themselves
have never visite51. *
He had not nistagen in.his MissDead-
stonebathe ]Ad gpot read as clearly theta
nature of Miss Trainor.
So at least he discovered as the con,
versatiob, continued. As at all similar
meetings--calls is the better word-the
dialogue embraced no special subject,3 it
was rather -of that desultory, vague char-
acter, forgotten as soon as .uttered, and
uttered apparently for no other purpose
than to, kill, time and keep up a flimsy
show of interest.     ..
'A school. Itmight be styled, in, which
society gossips can rehearse and practice
the easiest method of carrying on rapid
ascial talk concerning the little nothings
of the day, and become experts in the art
ofttalking a. great deal and yet saying
nothing with any substance in it.
The dbor opened, the setvant entered.
What do you wish, Lewisi" queried-
Miss Deadstone.
4 Pardon, mWam, but your mother wishes
to see 'yn in her chambeer immediate if
ybu can."              -        ,.
"Certainly, tell her I'll be up ther.6 at
once."
The servant of the pronunciation of the
word chamber bowed and retired, closing
the door solemnly after him, and was
heard again defending the depthslfollowed
by his regular escort of chees.
"One of mother's freaks; Louise, tsup-
pose; well, sbe's a dear, good motherlike
yours, Louise, and if you and  e
witl entertain each other-there's the piano.
if you like-I shall not be absent long-"
" We'll endeavor to amu rs elves,
Letty," said Miss Trainor.
Mins Deadstoie, after pulling farther
back the heavy drapery of the windows to'

P

BETWEEN"THE- 'CHUSTS.

pdmit of g betier light, .deperhed cn her,-
inipin to the Deadtone rgms above.
CHAPTERXXV..
GLENHAM MAKES A DISCOVERY ANP LOSES
HIS NERVE.
FOn the Moment Glenhailirea   nine
oilnt, with his .gaze fleed pon thqpaint -
ed effigy of some dead-and-ggis Dedstone
hanging upon the wall in fr'oifer him.
Presently the silence was boleii bT
Iliss Trainor.
"This is a strange old 'housi, Mr. Olen.
ham," she said.
He started as if he had been suddenly
roused from a doze f sleep.
"'I beg-your pardon-4or my absent-i
niindedness biflreally-my thioghts de
spite myself had wandereda-"
" Wool-gathering," she silled-" I said
this is a'strange (old hotse."
"Yet evidently none the less ,substaun
tial. For myart, I likothese 61d-fashion
ed, roomy, rambling. houses,. with their
wide, lofty hallsp, apparently din(.-- air-
casesand hundreds of odd Oornor resses.
Wherl I get into one of them somehow,
there seems to rise to me out of. the at-
mosphere of their vastness the memory-of
the long ago of my own life, pnd thfre
comes trooping  before my mental vision
the forms and faces of those whous I Ihave
known but ,wh9 ;haye passed away-'
Pshaw I Miss Trainor, this is-"
" Annoying, to, me  .Oh, no, Mr. Glen-
ham, I myself have had something of the
feeling to which iyou  llude, when at time
I have been left here alone-as now-in
this great, lofty, darl-waled parlor."
"put, pardoU me, Miss Trainor, you are
very young yet, ertainly too young to
have an unpleasant or regretful memot
of the,past. In Society, with its gaieties,
its brghtness,. animation, and with the
glamour of all its varied and ednstan-
ly increasing attractions surronn4ng yoi,
surely, your gast must have been one
continued round of pleasur a- of ha'-
piness." As Glenham said this, he watch-

e oldsely  heibxpnesiion of her'faceh'II
saw the shadow of sadness breep over It.:
T 4 r;Gldnham, :all 'of usy ftouAg or
Old, haveonit' troubles; yall, of'us, ha#
log .thei*eare odramask';-we wear oii
smile IR~ public .only, where pedpld ndVer
read the heart. Enough of this."- She
arose frof her seat dnd stepped towdrd
the '-eavy s centre-tableand .ina :lightei
WSo ;sad. ataher took lIapa. pliotogrhph
iham, Did you ever hiotice this lbum,
IMr cGlenhman."                ..
He pushed his chair back And stood be-
Pide eras he answeredi".Inded, I hAve
h9ppe~lasped!opened it,
"JeAle saja"    This j a.painting
our~iyprymof . .Deadstone,, the grsnd"!
father f thppresent Fr. )estpVone Let-
ty's father #m,.,  is JoPnel lauveljt,,who
was killed in the Mexican war. He was a
cousin of the Deadstones."
She turn#1; tle leaf, A1 sight of the
face it revealed she shuddered. Glen-
ham's gfdh&amp; is'too bi id' foetatik1
to escape obteid ioW." ' 'I
' This-thsibhywh  y d1dFL ey -1dhve
it here m     d1 asked bei wees'diktoietMM
it. Whenever I-see it."      i
Glenham redognfized the ,hee.I 1e;too,
ahudderedan ad    felt: that hid[faoekvu
palei tVai theace of a eoiib. Pti
It ,was thp lihotographio; tr'abeript  f
the face'df the-manwWho badbeea throfh
-Entd~ hisifetehed, bashineiit h~meihi PillI
atreet, ofi that teiiblenigh't in Mhreh4
It'was the portrait df Robert, Trainbr,
hei missigbkothe.      i o      I
-'I Poor, gpor Robrt4" she'mdriaied)
"shall I ever see him agalhd"'! ,i
Glenbath did otdare trifst his voite.'- At1
thht mmbirthifsihuinahlty, the better in-1
stincts of his nature, th'e noble&amp; part) of
-his gokd;foi'thwinstidt sprang inio 'life
-again.M Till then, t h6-'memory'of tl
4        wrdrgi he 'hadfsuffered from Duval, tbhe
bitt&amp;, fate which haff dragged-hiin do~h
to beggary and starvation, ina all-the ad-I
eumnlationofihoriord, ending 'with' the"
dread tableau of Adeath, Yhadarnb'usdd hIn
hiai but ope'feeling'thdt-of revenge. All!

III
~ I
I'
I
'lit

othlru fellnbsiar bad1baeatifieddittely
thoughtr'hiteef talltatfotyinftild64
which could weaTien-hierf soIe."
k'But' thenexhdtioh'-of-this' podi Ai&amp;*er
the bortkaidef hei'ost brother) whieb  ai
in vain strove to conceal, for theinthiht
almost QvnreeinebIa,     1,,1     ,
- jIq, stmn~ig 4~herbesnie sgqknowing
full well in all its breadth, and'dopth,and
shtiength-the yearingro ohpr sourlphknw-
ing the sliadow that was 'darkening her
yqng, life, and tP4 ope ws ord  'rop  im
in     ispel it; esaning there, besid
Louise Trainoi, would  ave given the
Ord      e eon u a   e      te    m
b %Yted"f-.'an'd sdrel'eveft  r,
-'the"igd4d'"'       er
WY, for Gi ip0if  s 1inn 6tarye
(ita , remors6 atthe '  he was
plA'ing,' cAi  the' ispir 'df se k' Be7
ware-betray your secret afid the'ndlne
yAou 'bdii'6 na' Ah illN  ol kne 'bbre
Will -'be -'diaohdre&amp;kj 5hoai4ed' Suspili
Wil, *ba'e hdtoils  t if90 arId JL"
'The'ritt'laiad tliadiL
Perhags 'the Gaildvd!' "'-
Then he ventured to speak to htt.
"Your-your brother, Miss Tiahnor,
did k,64-§ hy
'':A 0 rggy'silydo-ndt eutifWtt it
6d r' dthdr thAW'ivhf' rl'aih
IftnLif, Iaie bee diYd6Sl'* dayf- Will
tell you about-about'hi!i:LP' " '
V T  hevi   doF Wetednd'Iiss Dead-
Storle.Oame imp" -.-- '' ' '~ ' :i
WMOyP'rminoi 'im   G  nldin ihad tutabd
Aag rons hetabiAl       jI e'.:;  a
"Pm so glad you have come, Ltty,"
'said Miss 'Trfn6rO "  d 4 o  1o6 kiWhat
the -the ' album. 'tho.7"' The're *AA ' a
,tilgie of iepioth 'in her tonW Whih blied
the  pres~s'dn of glAedtds.- -
Miss Deadstone understood the 'slao
the iaidtly-iiplied repr6aily,
-" Louise, I know'ilhat yorimee; fo-
give me," she whispered., '0 i orgot tole-
move it; yod shall noise e It'tlie aain."
And that was all.-' Shutely 'fidr  16)i-
ham took his lehw, not without, lidWeer,


BETWEEN iTHE CRUSTS.

promising to, eall again; " when," as Miss
Deadatonednaughingly! said, "you are al-
ways sure.of a welcome?,.".*
" And if yow, are. not at 'home t" said
Glenham, as he paused iithe threshold
of the. door.
" Ah I well, the de'6ee will welcome
you-since ou friendo'call this the House
of Echoes."'
With 6 bow to' -Miss Trainor, he tui-nfd
bnd was gone.'.                  '
That evening denham was to nfeet the
daughter of Jerome Duaal.
And as he walked slpwly awqy fropa the
Deadstone mansion a fear began gradu'
ally to come upqn him, that by some one,
or from some source, who or-what he knew
not, there was close at han4 a betrayal
of thereality of ,is life-an exposure of
his past life, and resulting in' his own
degradation.
He ha4 had onca or twice before the
Aame strange dread of evil to' come, asd
it had passed away. , Now it seemed
to come-gradually -gathring ,tronger,
darker-more awful in its portent.,
Who in all the .wide city could fathom
his secret
Who?    .
As he turned at the street crossig the
action brought him face to face with--one
whom he had seen once before, wlie hie
hand was stained with the blood of th
brother of Louise Trainor.
It was the young man with an old fce
high cheekbones, heavy mqustache, keex
gray eyes, and croppedbir-Joe Muddler
the bar-keeper of t4e corner drbin
saloon.
Joe was clad in theheight of bar-keepe
fashion, but the keen eyes had not for
gotten the man of whom he had sai
months ago, on that night-" I shan't foz
get his face."   ,
Therecognition wasmutual-yetteithc
betrayed by action his knowledge of th
other's individuality.
Glenham walked 'on, neither glancin
to the right nor left.,
The bar-keeper paused a moment aft(

Mn. JOE MvDPLEP h 'bar keeper, sallied
fqrth from the. hotel, with a suspicious
twinkle in his sharp eyes.
As if by the . twinkle he'  was' saying
to himself "MAh, ah I I don't knowmuch
about that fellow; but what I d6, knovi
is this: he's, apigeon to l:e plucked, and
Il keep my wbather- eye' onhim occi.
sionallyi Joe Muddlertshio fool, Joe Mud-
dler isn't. Either that fellow on thatnight
when ,he dropped into my bar with. the
blood upon his hand,.fresh blood, too, had
stithin"'to do' with that' murder in Pell
street or he Nadn';"
/ So he cogitated as he strolled' along, al-
most retracing Glenham's'walk from the
House of the Echoes.,
,  As he wanton his way with that pecu-
liar swagger which only anEast side Bowr-
ery bar-keeper can assume when he is in
"luck," he resolved othe matter 1 of Mt.
Glenham'slittle affair over and over again,
each time coming to the determination to
" git suthin' out of jit." b '
You see,. Joe Muddler was speculative,

e
I,
10
i,
Zr

BFUTWEEN TJJE. CRUSTS.

Glenham had passed on, then, as if datfs.
fied, continued hisway.
But Glenhami was troubled. He knew
the bar--keeper recognized -him; 'he felt
it-yet he endeavored to' cahin himself
with the belief that thit was the end of it.
Wasit?
If Glenhamn, vas -he ascended tghe steps
leading to thd grand entrance of his hotel,
had looked around, and quickly, he-would
have discovered the fact that Job Muddler,
the bar-keeper, had quietlyfollowed 'him
-." hived ". hirhi'
And If, after he "had 'seended to his
suite of rooms, he could have with his
vision seen through fldors and walls down
as fa± as the office cointei, le would'have
been regaled with the iight'of Mt Joe
Muddler inquinng 'of the siperintending
clerk concerning Mt; Glenh m,'
-- CHIAPT'El XXML
LOUISE TRAINOw, MEETSWOTR  N
PECTED SURI IPE.

or,to use his ownelegant aa compxehen-
si ve 'vernaculat, "on 'the make.  Iow
much he had "knocked down "'i4 his ser-
vice as lar-keeper fron his employers'
drawer was on6 of'those mysteries wtich
only bar-keepers can solve.
'He had, however, made enough, by some
occult process best knowito himself, to
array, himself in the flashy imitation of a
gentleman, tolnake a show offjewelry and
secure a position as thei bar-keeper if a
fashionable-Broadway skiboh.
But desplee6 this exaltation in' rank, he
had an ambition to get a little father
ahead in 'the "fast line" anid thbrefdre he
was not disposed to' lose sight' of any
chance by which he'might ~add l"ohis ac-
count. '
" There was suthi' strange about that'
fellow's actions when ,h came in thI
night with the'blood on his hand. He was
shabby; gone to seed. Hd~i't' been
saaved, I 0n"w  for weeks, nor had 'his
hair combed, I dont believe. He trembled
al over, an' it wasn't with cold, 'Llat'a
Sure I
" Why, Joe, my brick, I thou bt you
had stepped out, gone; haven't seen you-
for an age."
Thus, encountering Joe, exclaimed Mr.
Moquard, that amiable gentleman who
has already introduced himself as a part
and parcel of, this veracious history.
Mr. Moquard was clad neatly, but ex
pensively.  Evidently he was not suffer-
ing for the want of funds.
When he addressed Joe tht indmvuai
looked up, recognized his acquainta ice,
held out his hand, struck anattitue, and
aid:
"Moke, put it there; shake. How are
yoU, old boy,"
"Fine-anywhere now I"
"Not the old place,, over in Bower"
"No; Broadway. But I say,      oke,
what's yer laynow; anything  ee and
easy " .                    nc '
"I've--I had, the biggest; racket; just
the smoof-4p  thing, a d didx4t I work it,
vh), ne" .

58

II '
~ It

ii
Ii"

. "Yes ? 9"said Joe, interrogatively.
" Well, it panned qut Just as cool a jive
thousiandtas any human ever counted."
SGdt w     oker,I  you are a genius, you
bet. But where 're you bound for, any-
how ?"
"Prospecling, Joe;,just ambling for the
benefit of my health. Suppose we walk
together, eh?"
This proposition suited Joe, and so the
precious pair sauntered on together.
'Joe was dealing within himself wheth-
er he 'should disclose to his friend and ex-
tremely honorable acquaintance, Mr Mo-
quard, his ideas concerning Glenham,
when tn their stroll they reached the cor-
ner of the block in which stood glowering
down uppn the street the grept broad-
fronted House of the REchoes.
Down the wide steps of that house at
that niomeut game Louise Trainor, her
friend, Letty Deadstone, above upon the.
threshold of the door bidding her a laugh-
ing good-bye and then disappearing.
Miss Trainor turned her steps toward
the corner from which Joe Muddler and
guard were sl0ly advancing,
- Absorbeain thought she dfd not notice
these indiv'Ualsuntil she, had almost
confronted them.
'Tepy were Dot more than a dozen steps
fro&amp;m  e corner. On the opposite side of,
the'stree~t the lower corner, an anciept
policeman was standing laoily chaffing a
Celtic lady,' sitting behind a small apple
stapd. flis immense mind was wholly oc-
cugied in ,a strategic effort to obtain an
apple from the stand without the troyible
and expense9f havingto pay for it.
Miss T;lno s glance fell upon Joe
Muddler an Moquard.
The moment she beheld Moquard she
uttered an exclamation of surprise, end
for the instant; stq9d as if frozen tothe
spot.
Mgquard's glsne met hers.
That one.glance was suftl9ient,
She recognized ii Mfoquard the man.
who ha,4 persQnted her brother at the
banking-house of Jerome Duval.
He remembgredthe words, "That's not


br4Me ~o*F "                     The  I~
my rtO'KI kAow xuby brpthe* i   tlien
Sheal ii'poaive me yu 'onte .li~jopppsMte n ! lJ e 'Saiydown the  a J~  a oh?    1
c r. Utterl1 regaiPlss oI what  1gihtOr'"V-)
be~~~~~~~k thogh o l       Ipocedngb.lieI A   ; 11erplitl,
cb~m ,(- tfietr;61  Vove  w41 iInin   y.  i er t thateaboest  r11§n V
$ere 'and boitbout 4rhioamlt.   Herem."sicktheDo lioee ,tokegtw
I                   q    ,   t'~
Th6"a'the  olieihs'- t he fl08to 'nat cry.  (!7 te.  - 'lsan  e
too lat~fQ1~flT )  I   V Aj~t
With hr eyeitbit e'ov ?wsr i   teenyo an rte eoneuu eI.1h
thesh  opglii uon. Ptl ~r .   1
arreaf d'tbtheyhtwill turnerintos theopnextIstreien
litlestrtatl~i b~t~~ a~i~le. ~  hex t i ll-li wunch   l~qtT o late!"
Whaet;  eatt~ed A~*ieaq  d?   leq4ir .o nodt,  t77  Ijt to
pe41  n  oigu  rdw o ihx 'itexor, C,      j p you i, Vehonv
sidet of the street h you nd thea cdnsquenyes;io are
The pg~wlkem u head thefri nt'  f'rm  et nh hnte u  u
'Wih h lpn~sds'e binl~ xit 4e~~sf oe b   e akrted  ith ou'rner.
comte, th ong~l te  s6"_'teui   .ml a jt il si'io ate
gld'VAd ~ide., od r 11aie.-a sh there tu4in'h eoru  nd~h &amp;ui
gavestintghtt to n  ap ran1ede       'le r  Ul  1o  O
sde,"c of  hsrkb  er action8inndpu  yT street.  5,  ed m"ev o ery ht es~t
"No, useA."she      aVVee mur                ,r( 'p~~Weole htrAl
loohedflih0 na tiher surprise.r mt  t',an r'AL'p en  us to lose
glacddow/t e  a Ir' 5 t! o  h t, r-%a'y Wle§  . 1 f iaW it aYV .:   At-
them na' t tM fxipg, b'O SAn6lift-r.- Mt oquadr 11  q Mud'erd ae tS&amp;i
rigfi extremely fin i6t.' E h k #tl'y i' the y  rxi WN th'e eghiX  -   -- - -t ie
earednot t  reuixni J. 7  1lQ1r Fo l .him, [Atye,0eve11,1 th);  ors o
g~ae'jnothhlt.  t  p'e - -  s  F,-   deah;  f  liii'o, ' atc f or  im  va
,-  ,fI  , I  H , 3  f W  1 1
*her d(h' iiv epr*te. sai ertote 1m foraihi m, iforth on murpose alo It-
for whyom she h ac1d in ao long1insret.ia, nY-1 oor sh ihoios'eatiavseo' et
onc  moe ad fr  ' 'b -~tias d tng Imurd  fg.  - -befor' 116i- - -
S~me~iii~vss ~e ~e~t&amp; th  s jatei  i arrs'to"sehms qapoof th t heiStli(
pO4&amp;'ird i 4i' mu hist dc4d ei  e  h~e'~  b~alld
cuin  isple  ie  iad  eiiieijyhg hts i ei~tc  ttt  etb~tir i ca
h1~ rizeand at~sy~hgii~t 'a~~fet.  Ta e sranly dr isaptp eed:thoutrfl

)
)
t
t
S
e
I.
It

A

- I
III

I1

lii
I I
'I ~
Ii~

I
-t
I'
41

iii
~. Ii
ii
I'-;
~iI ~

BJXT WREN-,THE, CRUJSTS.
;ge im  o hs rrivA1, n .tjeseio all room, xalled ,,or their favOrit  eeae
Ome       dbee                                       v tite beveraged1~8t
I~tlirejbtl. njanrpe           0            XVth )qqw4A,~ --  fifrl,4ha  &amp;gPr'sA keen
otu J)'. ,,tdonbt.            0110.. Npt so ver7 , ia eithW  NoW
Like all women, all her energy,?   olm,  3t;t et~~        wn1 j
,_wOole ,aim, w asconcexora tdqU    '4orIWh u pononj a~id er Wy.r tnameiyo
idea, ,and she ,permitted, r1qtling el~e, 0  Jpavo i queh a, thunderinghry (o,
obtrude itself. IeonsideluI ;an with yqu,, opep out aind
She was 14,ince Vnle  ~ni    40. us,,kziy--rohI.
~V                 -tAPsu~,~ l~Ora owhehj~a twje.  T is very, leWl~ky 1ead o.
Swasp themN~dexor of hpr brother; qnaq, holding Up hsgW s  n eai-
dth  1 as er d1yf bng    6 * g it with the air ,,ud cri iism of A con-
~ O telo ng -e a'sof. ial) f x oiseum ' very lie whiskey, as 1gpodl;~
esoli ec leessity, 9f 4ny  iene  the average of your Broadway whiskey,"
vieond hr  ubliCl cw       ii  o n4,he tasted, feu wallowed. the eon-
and of,  l 4 th                     Fj ~e  of hi.glssj   'COMeP~iJoe,  ik
i I ilM e ?-pp:Otak!   19Ad,. plysicajl attend4 yours up and let'n hbavQau4n  lp"
jiqg  t#isl  e;uJ   4rtgkeu,,she had  Jpe OIpy9c,.tlo xqU9i1  "vwth alcrity
Ld          ,,                 but .ot wtut ajwry f4Aq pd,,a side
,1~er~r~ce~Je~o~e~h~al's ankig wonpdorpnent, in ,hxs ~id~. q  h.~
. ng from lher Vhrprseneogatory.                '.              S
~~ ea gr 'g                   Another round of dd1;7.4doe
confirmation of her bej ~  ,hgg~itpt 'and placed 'befoe t49 prOe  Mar.
6, f ~asppthqr pjoeblp % le apwxci "  ay  iw uzgj *Pp,,e Iyou've, seen
ha o  o , r~qjthat girl, oh V7
MiX  tnt~imnsaiglit. ,-,Arioe fro i "Joe, th0t'* qqq;.Obt'"A"J,1ItelL'vou
,.i'* 4,read, j -not f oji ng, prgven guilty pf W.4y, ,all  ~Aifts, Wi~  .y)if
apd4rI,- lit,A 9%, V nf" ,f pq  -But at0 y4  need i t),i ve  van;le
of ~ ~   q~psiajg jr         wouldn't have interfered withyTo!:.V
N~jlt aV,~    bj~ngplf;1-w'yeA~fs  j r  ~  44, of pig iC4, RI),
1bX~ &amp;q9U10  .pqty, wi  i kg~~q    it won't do to tool with 14  ~~e~~~
a~ud h liact~,  a~isp~x~y  ialyl Itijy t~in,4 fpeNIq got the
to e~ag palf ose  pe~1sq i ncp befst q  llow' I,2 .
to Y~ rqthp ,1Ial,, ti8 49AV9  -to  '  is)     d   sj~pn
fromal        9fl;      tiie.
~rHE ~d~~r~4o  ~ ~     t~l W f  U             tbh4:I
IA tI~5i,~1), d i    aher too kond.   K
a," yfo i
.9olplttqblsa     j    r f o A th   e4b

I


l.

BETWEEN TH5 CRUSTS.

r
ii

" Well,'' continued Moquard, "1it% the
old storv-I got tired of her,-she bbcaiie
jealous, we 'had ,our little rows, ,h6fol-
loved me to see If ' hadn't another-hdy
love hidden away somewhere. -Icaught
her at it, we separated, called Oach other
hard iames, and' since then shel has n
such rare occasions when *e happened to
meet pitched in to have' hii11aritested.
Rather than have any trouble or annoy-
aice, I say nothing, but dodge out of sight
as soon an I can. That's the best way to be
rid of it, and besides, i time i'll tire her
out."I
"She's a fool. Why don't she hunt up
another fellow? ih  is she, anf§i'w Y
Where'd'yoii take her In I"
" WhereV, Oh, ore nightat a ball ;"one
December night at Irving Hall, one of
those private association balls, foi the
benedt df' some sort of charity or- other.I
She was there and then looked 'stntilng.
Bob Denyke introduced her to me."'
Bob Den'ykeI'"
" yes, do you know him t "1
"Don't I 'Well, it strikes me I do lihow
him, rather, I should think !"
"Well, Bob% a good filIow."
"When he ' ants to bej oliisy wheihe
d6n't want to'be he's just 'the worst you
ever did'see."'
'Oh, he's'human that's ll. W6ll he
hiitroducOdin to this girl' and then the
ftbbegai. "'Now you- know  all al ont
it,'iuxd Mbdi'ttd having relieved himself
from fdhii,6 utisiiing by Joe Muddle ,
in' the -elatidfi' df this pleasant fiction,
hidshed his dlhis.
Joe'had fith Itn Moquards statement,
e and was therefore entirely'datisfied.
What Moquarfddidn't",hoW abot the
art of lyingi&amp;id the scisnmi of covering
his'ti-anks'Waszi'totf mucel vale.
'Amnosm's'much an adept indeception as
wasR ,M. Pawii e iard befobathis,
when he led 'ito the "dkhwaid path
Madame Moquard.
When h Inet her she was, as we"already
Atfde4,  chliol  irl, who in her simple
ighbrance ob'the  orld listened to' him,
and with what vows' ad pr'otestations of

II
I I
I;

love 'and 'affection 'he gave her builded
up,- ob such beautiful castles in the air,
'in whidhshe' like a fairy quieen was to
reign amid one contiinual ound of love-
feasts.
The flowers were all there, the future
Waa carpeted with them, but beneath were
the thorns.
'When she discov&amp;ied he- etrOr, when,
as is always the way 'with Women, she
found she had let her' girlish pasion
overawe and crusli Out the'dictates of eon.
sceieee and- ht better sense-whali et'e
could have been. expected than that sie
should turn, and'in the recklesness'ofhdr
despair become her-shlf a schemeri"''
A waif, a reaper' it the ield of'. huindn
credulity; an apt' pupil of the' mdnster
who had led her from the bright 'iioillIig
of innocence into the dim i'mstery, the
darkening ee of gi&amp;ilt. "ow coildAshe do
otherwise tai become like thousands" f
"thi6of her d ,"a bird 'of pey, 'one of
the ad'enturee    hose hand is'giiit
all of humAhkki-idaa
She ufartled' -t. Leoni. "She separated
from him-she sboi dieo'vfeIthathe Was
but 'another Paaridge; uot so polished,
suave and genteel,'but still ionb the l1s
a knave, a docial 'freebooter-' Perhaps' IAt
'the time she net St.L'eoh, Meen though
she had'falleoWliit  he 6fiird calloAs -eo..
dition of a w6omanWlUo  fittaUr 4 is a  d
hopeless lank, had ahe edoutbte'id die
who *as hoi et:anduenptable'and *0ho
hall lov'ed'her f~uhersklf, 'uidnet for the
gratifieatioi 6f'aiy 'speeial'pasio' she
might hatt beth led into a 'bUtter' aId
purrillio night h'ave' 'bee"Sved fora
'noblerpuruse.'- Btit her fate Was sealed,
th'ebirrsed'ofher lifewas marked ut t'by
the hand of fate, and §he followed 'it
blindly, heedlessly, wilfully.
Now, while her first love was preaching
and the one wholately ta 'ben her para-
mour sat in, this ,saloon,,chatling over his
whiskey with Joe Muddler, she, the vie-
tihi, fo* EMadhire"Moghda~i," 'adroit
' kh adven'turebs las ever lured a'iithdo
her' tilthn&amp;despoiled hn of his ifianfy
-was'ehyfiug the idOry ofaher'litia-

I

ments at the great hotel - scheming, plan
ning, and plotting to gather in her prey.
Madame Moquard,, so far as, her ap-
quaintance:with Glenham was convergedt,
had no designs upon his pea ce find or
upon his money. She had rather a liking
for the grave, cynical, quiet man. There
was nothing in this liking akip to love,
and certainly nothing of passion, it was
simply a liking---a desire, to win 'his es,
teem, his friendship.
To her, pariah that she,was, the friend-
ship of one human being-4 friendship
that would be thoroughly useful, with no
admixture of the grosser, characteristic
which so often leaven that best of all hu-
manfeelings-would be a blessing, a source
of happiness,, she would -not readily cast
So, with what toppqrtuPity, offered in
the way of meeting Glenham, she did:4er
best to gain the prize,, and with her we..
man's tact, and the natural spq*uqenfe of
hotel life, yhere occasions oPe day or an-:
other for chance eagounters. are rarely
lacking, it is et strange that .she,, by-
andsby,. partially succeeded in her pur-
pose. -
When they Met st table, it came to pass
that they began to regard# .ealothUr as
old acquaintancess , neither, o Wever,
knowing or caring to inquire intothe pagt
life or-history oftheother.,.- I
Glenhad's past wAs as a volyqme which
he had sealed up and 14d, away from all
mo4aisight or thought, ni4as for madame
Moquard's, what eggd he for that? 3-Both
were willing to..acceptsthe present, gad
use it as wiely.for thir own purposes of
enjoyment 'and schemes as they could.
 Glenhanwith that aoutenesswhich had
grown upon him through the. bitteiZ ex.:
periences.of the past, readily understood
that she was a schemer, and that she too,
like~himself, was alone in the world,, and
working-to accomplish a hiddenpurpose-
some d4ep-lIaid speme,; but he also saw
that, init orwith ise did not seek to
Incjlidhim as one otfhey pnppets.
And, although he knew, it not, she read
hi mental page equally as clearly.

So, why should not this pair be what in
society ie called friends,?
And what more appropriate place for
the fonatjon or continuance of such
friegidsbip than a fashjonable hopel, which,
in itself, is, a social world-the duplicate
of the p!etences,,luxury, dress, and extra-
vagance of that mogstrqps sham, "our
best society"-thatupper-crugt of metro-
politan life I
As, ft St. Legn-the men whom she had
accepted for a, husband, ap4 from whom
she had drifted, away; a bold, unsgrupu-
lous schemer, like herself-she held him
within  thqeirce of her acquaintance, and
no, apdthen together they reaped a full
harvestby sonme well-laid plan, Whereb
a pigeon, opewhere between the crusts
of the social .pie, found hisiself picked
an4 trped s qiely, so perfectly, that
there was no psible chnce for retribu-
Glenhpurther avoided-this St. Leon,
and Madame Moquard lost no chance to
9     p P t .is feeii~nppon hip part.
.,* *pnhas regded S. Leon with a sort
9~t4aguegspin~9i.- h leew nothing of
}im. or hip aytecedent0j hie rin, hintg
q as outward Appearnces were con-
Ce~ned, nly '  man . of society, of the
wotJdpolished,,gpntlemanly in bearing,
affiW    his apeeph, ,n with an eaSy,
graceful e  'age, as i he wery  natuat-
born courtierA .Yet Qlegim ,knew, or
rather thought leknew, that beneath th
attractive exterior there was a'deep, dark
current of deceit and rascality. This sus-
picion he concealed within his own mind,
and, meeting'St; Leon whenever it might
happen their intercourse was limited to
a form exchangee of the' compiineit's o6f
the day, a 'bow' a' suile',"and nothing
more.I'               ""'  '
And as for §t.,Le'n, 44d his iP'A
of Gena!4not -ery d4aering to tlpat
indiid1, an4, it ,Pa   we11 bead,
pgually unflattering hi own judgment
of hulpauanature.
He had for maiy yveekq,, ever 'since he
met him. at the Shrugg's festival, 1 ept a
wary eye, upon Glenhanmore especially

BETWEEN THE CRVSTS.

M

.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS. .

"1

siace be discovered his acquaintance with
Idm' Moquard had ripened into a
friendly intercourse.
Noting this, h resolved that in some
way or another-the chance which would
develop the method iot having yet come
up-he would bring into his own posses-
sion, as ihe reward of his endeavor6,a por-
tion of Glenham's'money.
There was no chance to catch Glenham.
at gambling; for Glenham had no"fancy
for that exciting And hazArdous'pdstime.
The bird must 'be cAught by aiibther
sort of trap.
The more difficulty' there was in the ac-
complishinent of' flis purpIe the' more
eager V646  St. Leonf6i' the bottle
Meanhiie, amid all this' pitting and
septhin'g 'rod'ry-which suid1nrded him,
Glenham wa-s'binging' bearei and eair'er
to its colimtidtIon, with will imd de-
termination as relentless as destiny, his'
design in reference 'to the daughter' of,
Jerome Dhval."
How he' glbateidlovet his pibablN or,
h   onidered 'i, lidievitale sutdess!
instiriking down with iifdh a terrible 11ow
ihe piido oT tli banker, and-btingin'g into
h'biA oae all"the rdin; despali, disrabe,
a"d degradatrin which the b nkd had'
brought upon him. How he,'i'tilayi
roodind Oer It~ grily eulbd'i 'his'
comgn conquest ver that innocentun-
supectino glrlthe sistei of lis dead
dife-onlyr a dexon miaht realize."
FEW LITTLE RGAMS WHICH WERE OPEN-
~D BYISOM&amp;,   0%~      asaos
THERE was one personage to whOM
whenever an,'ertuiiy 6ff&amp;red,'Indamn
1Moguard wa  ec6'iie       s'n   nly
amiable. The persoiage thus'hlb red'b
ir special l 'attntionai Vadthe' RV Mr
Pawridge. She, attended 'his church, aiia
6eniied   pliin tall' a ndle' 'View
ot the pulpit.~ She bnttlhuted her mite,
generally a bauk hote; to the)oollectin

bag, always in such a-manner as to attract
a kindly glance from the handsome pastor,
and an upward roll of the eyes and isinile
of benign satisfaction upoithe counte-
nance of the plate-lbearet.
For what purpose' she- exhibited such
interest in the popular minister she could
easily have explained, no doubt, muchmore
easily thah the Ireverenid gentleman'him-
self, who Was'satifi'ed with being the re-
cipient of the renewed homage ofliis vic-
tim of years' ago.
:Mr. Pawridge was young and hisviews
were liberal.  He wasa saint' who was
merely hinati. A modern' apostle was
Pawridge. He wa' not of the -sort to
g6 out into the wilderness and' preach,
or anywhere 'wbie there was a proba-
bility he would be deprived of his cus-
tomary comforts and 'the little 'luxuries
infidental'to-the daily'life of -a firtt-class
mahfinister, who i' the pet of his'congrega-
tion and Wn1rhiped' by'the Women.
FMr his wife 'he irofees d the most un-
boiunded'lo, bi'the'depth nd extent of
that'tfection Wits'as "hiallo sAnd7arrow
and staknait asthe intellect of an idibt.
Wherefore she, long since having dii-
cvered this lamentable fAbt, indiflgdd in
ealdsytoan unlmited dten 'andmain-
'taifd"? c66e Wtch, upon hit ingoings
In the green' andaladiays'of his youth
ride ~'hia been wild and reekiless.
Hebih~o,'hi'hd designed him for the
nI iis1y, "and the salutary effect-' of his
studies 4 lli6'ddhb-U 'be disclosed as
,this araiire'sogresses.'Bit'hat was in
he la~ig ago. Ndr, in this time, as the or--
dained minister; had he had among his
hearers Moquard or the blonde and' lra.
iihtie 'in whose are hfihvestigated the
'mysteries of thiee-card mnte, or' should
hi meeti the m face to face, te' wdi4 not
hve recgniz6d thei. hby' eie too
hig'ti-tonea foi- him. &amp;ot tiitte'lapse ,t
76eas was sorbat, bit' fi 'tihe' reason
their intrcotirs:had'bEeen 'bet-iofit.
able to themiti l6lit,"bi' .;idingly
unproeituble to lAm.  '   '  -' b rA
There wdte iiany young abnd'iroanl.

THE SOIREE AT THE

SHRUGG MANSION.

hI

ii' I
V
Ii
Ii~
(if I

I f
If

6i1

#
g
(

K3


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

minded ladies, in his congregation who
doted upon.him.  In him they could see
no evil-to them   his utterfaces were
honey, and his smile a treasure. .
They made him, presents-embroidered
clippers,, cushions, morning gowns, gloves,
nick-nacks of jewelry, volumes of poetry,
with certain lines and poems marked..for
his special attention, gold ppns and pen-
cils, and all other sorts of miscellaneous
articles, such as obly the mind of such
infatuated young damsels' and Wives who
loved heir pAstor could suggest.
From Madame Moquard he had received
-no other evidence 6f her restored ad-
miration than attendance at his church, 'i
liberal contribution' each Sabbath toward
the church find, and ai occasiotial grance
-such a glance as she only could give-
into his'handsome fate.
Pawridge fell into the net; the poor
moth fluttered awhile,:and then-
The minister began to, at first -oocasiont-
ally, then frequently visit the hotel where
resided his new convert. Here; too, at
intervals, he chanced to meet, in one of
the public parlors, Iobert Glehhan.
Now and then he enountered him,
holding s6eningly very' pleasant chat in'
thepublic.palors,' and when the fascinat-
ing pastor learned-that Mr4 Glenham was
the possessor of an' mpI'e income 'and
lived the life of a 'entleman of leisure,
he began toregard him 'as-a"M=nan and
a brother--yea,- as: one: in whoin' there
could not be 'much;guile It is only/the
work-a-day, herd, the impdcunions, the
livers in tenement1housesi'and-the shabby
and cheap fag-ends1of social life irholare
full of guile, and sing and all a6fteof-in-
iquity, as pier the gospel according;to St.
Pawridge     .       .
That Madame ,Moquard'great piofes-
sion of esteem for' the minister boded,'no
god to him. inay readily be imakified.,
She never wasted the sweetness of her
frien~dsh~ip Sp~ uselessa oi irresponsible
subjects.,A. worpa nefathe world,: she
-knew thevglge pf evqry,stpp',sho took
Just op  ' she , wpated to: use Mr.,
Pawridge.
5

It

1'

Iii ~
4 1
ii 1'
ILl
4' iii

65

She knew pawridgeweakness.'s
Of her he knew nothing.
Perh4ps had. he..evenknown she was
the sister of the blonde -with "Whom, in
the heyday o hs youth, on ,tlhp Island
beuh, 'he had , embraced :Satan  in-
.stead of giving him Iattle, he would not
have avole4 the enchantress., Time, ci;_
cumstances,. ind position maymake great
changes in the disposition of men ,like
him, but there -is still left the old leaven
in their nature,
Verilya49tspirit of, forgiveness, must
have been strong, in adkgpie Moquar4
thus to oncp more be faiidliar wit4ith
man who was the first to lead her out of
the light pf innocence into the dqrknesa
of that evil from which, now, there was
no redemption       "
Forgiveness I Oh, no!,
-CHAPTER XXIX.
AB3EL LKRAMP, T'Er CAstIER, nECOGNIals
AN OLD ACqUAINTANCE.
Ggirau thus ar had. evaded a meet-
ing with Jeroge puval facetq face, They
hd notiso met sinp thelopg ago, ,when
Duval had cast his, daugltsr off and for-
ever shut her out from his:home and
;heart. ,So far as' posibl, Glenham had
avoided the.,chance ofsqc, a meeting,
Potwithstanding hi§ confidence .-in the
preveniiomp f auy*receguition ,from the
bagkerxbysthejlbange in-his epersopal ap-
pearanecWhichi.time andthe. terrible or-
deal of the piat tpa yes had wrought.
le had no 4eiire now to, confront ,the
man who had so wronged him, ando
cruelly, ,ihumanly;wringed'his daughter,
whose oplyoffense'-wsi her innfaltering
love for Glenham-a love which clung to
,er, and'glorided her lifteven in its /last
mwoments,-as in the gloom; and darkness
ofe the Pell street }taementAit :ebbed out
into the,1erditlessejeterityn 4 4 .
* When his'hhrVest of vengeancewas
1-eady forithe-reapingg!then, aAndnot until
then,.was he ready to look Jerome Duval
in the face, make himself known, and


66                      BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.
gloat with fiendish delight over his cerning the hardships of a business which
enemy. How soon such a time came he compelled him to earn his daily bread and
cared not. When that great and ruling beer, without reference to the more solid
purpose of his life should be accomplished and exhilarating bourbon.
-whatever ruin or desolation it might   "What is the matter"-naturally asked
bring to others than is object-he bad Glenham of an individual in a slouchhat,
determined  to' become a wanderer-a and with the heavy arom4 on his breath
traveler without a home, a nomad seek- of an exceedmigly bad cigar.
ing abstraction from all thought of the  "Dunno-man hurt-knocked down, I
past in constant change of place and 'spose,0 was the reply.
scene.                                  "Fit, I guess," said another man, an ex-
As yet he had found none 'of those ceedingly short fellow, with bow-legs,
whom he had known in former times ,whose face was all.nose and his head all
who recognized him, so utteTly was he ears, and who, from his positio4behind a
changed. They, in their various degrees, stout individual, evidently had not seen
had prospered, and had altered but little the sufferer.
In appearance, so that he knew them.    Glenham, by dint of elbowing and an
With the majority of these his Iatercourse air of authority, manage t o get within
-had been merely that brought about by the circle.
business relations.                     He leaned over the man upon the pave-
But there was one whom Glenham had
ment.
forgotten, and with whom, at one time, he  Opposite him was anther person bend.
had had some considerable intimacy in ing ever.
financial matters, before the discovery by  "Are you a physician 1" sid -Slen-
Dlva ^ f hia h  in&amp; won his dmahteArls '

JJUVL 1 1 JJJ.Lu UbuUltuc
affection.
That one was Abel Kramp, the cashier
,Abel Kramp, with' 'his single piercing
gray eye, his deformed back,' thick un-
gainly body, hook nose, 'thin lips, and'
weird look-this man Gleihani had not,
thought of.
It so happened that late one afternoon,as
Glenham   was crossing  the' pavement'
from the entrance of:a store in onecof the
avenues, where he had'beenmtaking some
trifling purchases,' to', his '-carriage, he
-noticed a crowd gathethd atth cornier of
the street, but-a feW paces distant.
Curiosity prompted 'him to ascertain
the cause.
Pushing through the throng, he saw
lying upon the pavement a mal, evident-
ly in great pain..
As a niatter of course, as is always the
case, precisely when be is *ranted and his'
presence is:necessary, ho policemanWas
present. No doubt he was iiound tbe
corner in some 'retired doorway- resting,
himself, or in a seeladed area conversing
with' an amiable young housemaid con-,

ham..
"No, sir," was the reply.,
What is- the matter with him, do you
know" i.queried (4leaham.
"lHe was crossing the street here, and a
couple of carniagesv'were coming around the
corner in opposite dire'tions,both driving
fast. He saw them both, butin dodging one
he got in the wayof the other,:4ndwis run
'over, Them hackmen.ought to be hung
by the heels to'a lamppost, sir.",
As yet no policeman.
Glenham bent'closer.to the'enuerer.
There: was 'no writhing of the'limb$;
only &amp;.low intermittent moaning.
Just then the zpri turned' his :head so
that he was face:to face with ,lenban.
" George Jaffray-alive "
Glenhan. at the-samne time 'reognised
the victim. '     '
":Abel Kranip 1" he exclaimed, invblun-
tarily.
Of all the men in the world tlie cashier
'had been absent from his memory.
 I Am 'glad yo-i-you aren't dead
"I am badly hurt -hirt,"hoined Abel.

F

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

"Can you-can you get me a carriage 'to
take me home-"
Glenhan would not have refused such a

67

favor, at least.
"Why, Abel, my carriage is at the
cur b.. Tell me where you live, and I will
see you safely home. I hope you are not
badly hurt. Come, let me raise you up.
Once in my carriage, and then you can tell
me where your home is."
Then, turning to the crowd of lookers-
on, who were pressing closely upon him,
Glenham said:
"tand back-more room here."
The man opposite, to whom Glenham
had first -spoken, and who was still be-
side Abel, proffered his assistance in rais-
ing him from the pavement.
Carefully they lifted Abel to his feet,
and slowly led him, weak, trembling and
moaning; to the carriage.
So far as they knew, or as he feebly ex-
pressed himself,"there seemed to be no
fracture of his 'limbs; whatever injury
there might be was internal.
The crowd, as in duty bound,'followed
them, and pressed closely up to the car-
riage-door.
No policeman as yet had appeared.'
Everybody had an observation to make
and all sorts'of advice to give, and each
individual was positive'that if his advice
should be taken there Would be no further
trouble.
To all the suggestions and advice Glen-
ham made 'no reply.
He heard and saw only Abel.
A' mind was busy with the peril of
this unexpected discovery by Abel of his
identity, and of how he could, 'either to
secure the cashier's silence, in case 'he re-
covered from his injuries, whatever they
might be, or failing in that, how he 'could
best turn it otherwise to his advantage.
Once he had deposited Abel in the car-
riage he asked him Ins place of residence.
The cashier told him.
t was in one of the up-town cross
streets on the6eatside.
Giving his doahman the poper direc-
-divso and bidding the man that had as-

I

sisted hhn, and who was evidently expect-
ing ai invitation to accompany the party,
a curt and somewhat unceremonious adieu,
Gleiham entered the carriage. and was
driven off, leaving the crowd to slowly
disperse in search of some other sensation
around which it might gather, and waste
tine in the gratification of its morbid ap-
petite.'
CHAPTER XXX.
ABEL KRAMP'S LAST RIDE.
THE ride of Glenham'with the disabled
cashier was not a long one, and the car-
riage, in accordance with the direction
given the coachman, drew up at the place
indicated.
It was not a pleasant orcleanly ihorough-
fare in which Abel Kramp had'his abode;
it was one' of those arrow' unsavory
streets, lined on either side by tall tene-
ment-houses, with their narrow dark en-
.trances through which, :ut and in all day
long, careered ragged, dirty-faced, frowsy-
headed ,children, lean, hungry-looking
dogs, while slouchy women in drabbled
dresseslingered about the pavement in
little groups, gossiping over the-troubles
of the little wretched world, in which
poverty had thrown them.
, It was before one of these tall tenement-
hoses.that the carriage drew up.
The sight of such an equipage was a
rarity in that neighborhood-an ambu-
lance, a pie wagon, or a cheap hearse, with
its. dingy decorations and the necessary
cheap hack. followingit, were the most
expensive vehicles usually visiting the
locality.
Consequently the wopen -thereabout
ceased their, gossip, thep ragged .children
ceased their play and er9wded up toIsee
the iwpnted show of a private carriage
with a liveried driver.
Glenham was the firat te alight after
the coachman had openedthe door.
"On the third floo-third fluo, Mr.
Jaffray," saidAbel. " Tere, thae the en-
trance."
'" Now then, Mr. Kramp,"'said Glenliam,


68                      BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.
glancing quickly around to see if any one to find it furnished so greatly in contrast
of the gathered group, or even the coach- with the wretchedness of the building.
man had caught the name of Jaffray-     Fine carpets, thewalls hung with costly
"put your arm over my shoulder; rest paintings, articles of vertu, books, en.-
your weight upon me ; .that's it-there gravings- and bronzes scattered about on
slowly, we'll soon have you in your tables and shelyes; the furniture and all
rooms."                            . the appointments such as only could have
" Tha-thank you-you," moaned Abel, been provided, or appreciated by a man of
the exertion of his limbs appearing to in- culture and artistic taste..
crease his pain at every step-" it's-it's  Abel had somewhat recovered from his
inside - the injury -inside - oh! - the exhaustion, but still uttered at intervals
pain !"                               low moans.        1
Slowly, step by step, Gleuham, half led,  Glenham seated himself at the bedside.
half carried him up the narrow stairs,  He could- scarcely credit the reality of
pausing at every landing to give the ;-uf- this strange and unexpected. rencontre
ferer rest until they reached the entrance with the cashier of Jerome Duval.-
to his apartments.                      It seemed like a dream.
Glenham opened the door. As by this Presently Abel turned his face toward
time within doors it had become quite him and the solitary eye was fied upon
dark and the. curtains were down, to the Glenham..
eye of Glenham, unfamiliar with the sur-  "I-I-am  59 gratefulMr,, Jaffray-if
roundings, only a dim outline wa visible -  ou are he-who-whom I thought
of the content of the apartment.     .dead months ago-months ago," Abel said,
speaking, slowly and brokenly throughlhis
"Here.-4s-is the bed--in-in this cor- -.
ner," said Abel, "ledd me to-td' lt  d  ain
' ti and pRest quietly," replied Glenham,,I am
en the iantei-shelf-mp." 'Askhe ut- too glad to have been able to assist you;
tered the last 'word theywere beside the I have sent for a physician who will be
bed and Abel ~sank back upon it ex- here~a    peiya     gcraecnbig
haushede; a,% spee4ily.4s n y arvIage can bring
haunted.                              him. A few days' ,est, and: under his care
Gnham so  n ft nd the lamp, a'd Iyo    ll b allgight gain.    t I have
matches near -itfvo 9 s                                   7)f9R"
" One moment, Abel, and I will'retu7n,"   Ief-L soiasey gem i   rngy
hurrie  the        solitary eyp glemp4 ipquiringly.
said Qenham, and he hurrid;dnh        __"Do not call me Jaffray--Glpmbam---
stairs and out to- hia coaehman'who was Robprt Glenham is my name at present;
standmg there, grimly silent, with an ex-  after I will  i
pression of disgust upon his not particu-
change.),
larly handsome features, at being an object  .             it "      d Abel
on exhibition-to the crowd,'which had in-  Iwlr-ermbe        moaneuht
creased four-fold as the news of the Kraip. "Imay have much-much to
h th      explain to-you."r-       ..
occurrence spread through the street.   itis long since we have..met,,Abel"
"Dick," said Glenham, "drive over to said Glenham, many yeprs, yet time
Dr. Pillule; if he is in, hurry him1ere i  has dealt lightly with you.  quafe still
the carriage ; if he is out, write this ad- with Duval7"
dress upon the slate and sign my name to  'Yes-yes-it'sp storage story, I--I-
it, then drive here. Drive fast." ,   oh! this tergble pain. If I only had an
"Yes, sir."  A moment more and the opiate-something."
carriage rolled swiftly away, and Glen-  The iioise of footisteps&amp;.were hpard; as-
ham returned to Abel's rooms.  .      cending the stairs. Glenhsm' opened th
Now that the light' made the .interior door, and IDr. Pillule stoodbeforecho
clearly visible, Glenham was astonished .The physician was a stout, healety,nid-

Ij it

BETWEEN THE CIUSTS.

" No-not-7nbt now-- was--"
f' You must have. sonie one to sit up
with yOU to-night. Do you live here'
alone    '     .  '      .
"Abel,I'1fiAd you anurse," interposed
Glenham, 6 sudden resolve 'coming upoki
him' to remain thenight with the cashier,
and, if his pain should'decrease under the
operation of the medicine, to endeavor to
learn' something concernihg Duval which
might hereafter be useful to him in the,
furtherance 'of his schemes. "You need
not' trouble about'a nurse, I will remain,
with yokito-night." -
,-Will you Y" and as Abel uttered this
an expression of gladmiess escaped h.-'
T-tno--ow nirning 'I will cone in
and ske'how you Are getting 6n," saidth
doetot -" And Mr. .Gln'hai yoti'u SAdld'
get the prescriptionfilled,"the soorieftthe
better" '
" Very well, at once then," said Glen-
ham.
A moment aite 'he and the  octor stood
upon:the lower IAnding ofthe tthirs.
" Doctor," said Glenhai, " -hbe in any
real danger?"
" Precisely what I desired to speak to
you of. Ie knust not kndw, or e will'Aiiik
more'i-apfdlv."
" D6 you mean--"
I meai that if my diagnosis of his

69

dle-aged man; quick of movement, with a
kindl'yToice, and pleasant manner,
"Doctor," said Glenham, "here is your
patient, Mr.Abel Kramp." Glenham then
narrated the circumstances 'and nature of
the cashier's mishap.
After a brief but.thorodigh examination,
and a few 'questions to Abel, which were
answered as well as he was able, Dr.
Pillule took out his book and' pencil and
wrote a prescription.
',Now, Mr. K ramp, your injury is inr
ternal- quite svpre-you must keep per-
fectly quiet; take this prescription as
directed 'and I imagine yqtgll come out of,
it safely. Married I suppose V"aaid'the
docter looking around.

I

condition is correct, his injuries are
fatal"
'" Sur'ely !
"le will not live forty-eight hours.
Towards iporning,' under the influencee of
this prescription, ie will 1e somewhat re-
lieved' of the acute pairi he now experi-
ences, and may seem to grow stronger.
My skill can go no further. You have
known him long i"1
"IMany years."
"His business ?'
"The cashier of one of the heaviest'
banking houses in Wall street."
"By this time Glenham and the doctor
had descended to the pavemen1t.
1'could do no good should I call again
before morning.  After' that, you had
better, as gently as possible, bring him to
a knowledge of his true condition, so that
he blay arrarige his worldly affairs as best
he can in the brief space of life left him.
There on that corner is a drug stoie'; get
the prescription and return to him."
"The doctor stepped into Glen$am's car-
riageashe'spolie)'.
Glenham whispered some istruetion to
his coachman, bade Dr  a Pillule good-night,
and the carriage whirled, away,' Twenty
minutes eterwards Glenham 'was again
seated biEsd A be Ka around whoM'
was gatheting the shadow of deah.
A bA Rrhimp'gtized log 'itid* steadily*at'
Gehatn the leehness of a lace was,
softened' by an'ex 'ssr of   atitud;
y     ss iondf gra
indeed his whole fa&amp;%, despite the occa-
sional hpasigi of pain which passed over it
had lost its sharp-nem and angularity and'
stemed"inellowed and rounhd6d, so that
its repaliveness had disapetred.
Really; he had little to be grateftil for
to Glenhamr.
Glenhatri'was led to hin by curiosity,
the 'sme feeling which would' have in-
ducdd him io pluge for'a i oinent to look
up*i "a ddg' fight.' Wien' h discovered
th injiitd 'in to ''e  1ellKrainp, l1ad
hb riot~ben re~'I         ame
'a    en rog 'izeby the cadhietlhe
wul fhio 'his fatethe fear
of a disdaveryothis 'identit ov'ercoming
all other considerations.


1'

HE CRUSTS.

ii

70                      BETWEEN T
And now he had volunteered to watch
beside this man while death stood at his
elbow, not through any motives of kind-
ness, but simply to gather what infornia-
tion he could of the banker's later course
of life. Of all men in the world he knew
Abel Kramp could if he chose give him
this information.
CHAPTER XXXI.
"'OUT OF A DREAM INTO THE REALITY."
GLENHAM administered to Abel the
medicine in accordance with the direction
of the physician, and after a while the
cashier seemed to obtain an almost com-
plete respite from pain. He lay there calm,
quiet, and apparently little inclined to'
converse. He made no motion or attempt
to speak, save now and then to ask for
water.
By-and-by Glenham discovered that he
was sleeping as quietly as a child. The
breathing was regular, and his pulse beat
as evenly as if no physical derangement
had occurred.
Glenham, as the moments crept on, be-
gan to feel, in the silence and loneliness
of the dimly-lighted room, a drowsiness
creeping upon his senses, and, in that
half waking, half unconscious state, he ap-
peared'to have two separate conditions of
existence. He imagined himself to Le by
the bedside of Abel, and at the same time
sitting in one of the great shadowy parlors
of the House of Echoes, conversing witlA
Miss Trainor, talking to her of Abel
Kramp and his accident, and speak-
ing to Abel concerning Miss Trainor;
and amid this strange duplication of
himself and the confused jangle of
thought and incident there came a
shadow, and, preceded, followed, and
surrounded by troops of echoes at every
step, entered Jerome Duval, with the
thin, ghastly, death-stricken face, and
upon his arm leaned his daughter Edith,
she, too, deathly pale ; and both father
and daughter with their eyes fixed upon

him with terrible earnestness.,- Slowly
they moved towards him, andas they did
so Abel Kramp's presence intervened,
and then all faded, or seemed to fade, or
rather, dissolved into, another-a vast
graveyard, with a leaden-grey sky glow-
ering over it, while as faras the eye could
reach, row after row of graves stretched
away like the furrows and hillocks of a
newly-plowed field.I
Then again before him stood Jerome
Duval, withEdith, bending beside a grave,
sunken, overgrown with 'weeds, and un-
marked. Something, as if it were a whis
per borne to his- hearing upon the wind,
murmured in his ear, "Mary lies here-
Mary, the sister of Edith."
And out of this weird phantom of his,
drowse grew another, a wild, desolate sea-
beach, upon which the waves were dash-
ing up and wrestling together like bat-
tling monsters. The flash of a signal-gun
of distress lightened up the gloom around
him,, and in the instant of this terrible
illumination he beheld a vessel stranded
-upon a ledge of rocks, and upon her decks
what seemed a myriad of struggling hu-
man beings.
- Again the flash and the dull boom of
the gun, and, all the life upon the decks
was swept away, and upon the summit
of one vast wave, which seemed surging
toward him and almost overwhelming
him, he beheld two lifeless bodies-,horri-
,ble, ghastly forms. One more glance-the
faces of-the dead were turned toward him.
They were the faces of Edith Duval and
of the man whose body he robbed in the
Pell street basement.
With one mighty surge the great wave
which bore them up, as a, giant would
have held up a couple of children, hurled
them at his feet upon the beach.
The terror and fright of this distemper-
ed vision aroused him.
Abel Kramp's hand was grasping his
arm.
" Why-why -Mr. Jaffray-wlat is the
matter ? I have-I-have been trying to
rouse you." This much saidAbel, weakly,
but with scarcely any of the tremor in his

a

BETWEEN TI
voice, which marked his utterance in the
early part of the evening.
Glenham, with an -effort, arousedhim-
self, but the paleness, of his face and the
drops of perspiration told how much the
mental agony, the swift-chpnging phantas-
magoria of his brief drowse, had distress-
ed him. 1t was some moments before he
thoroughly regained his usual composure
-a composure, a control of his feelings
which, enabled, him to stolidly repress
every impulse or thought which might
divert him from the bitter task .to which
he was devoting his life-1evenge.
"1Abel," he said, "did I frigtten you?
I was tired-and the silence around me
irresistibly droye me ipto this drowse., I
must have slept. sound, had some ugly
dreams, too, if I.remember right. Well-
well!..Wh.y," looking at his watch, "past,
twelve; no wonder it, is so quiet around
hereit is time for, your medicine, Abel.
You seem much better: your sleep, at least,
has done.you, good,"  ,
.t I feel easier; not,;mich pain; butI
am weaker., While I slept, Mr. Jaffray-I
can call you by that name now that there
are none here to-.
"1Oh, certainly," said Glenham, as .,he
busied himself dropping the medicine into
a gloss.
"iWhile I. slept I dreamed my life
through, all its troubles, its hopes.- I
lived years in minutes. they say that
such a dream to the sick is a forerunner
of-of death."
"An idle. fancy," replied  Glenham.
"1Here, take this."
Abel raised himself partially and oey
ed, then fell back upon his pillow.
f" An idle fancy," repeated, Glenham,
" at least-" he paused, ganged at Abel
and toolj him by the hand which lay upon
his breast.
" Abel)" Glnat voice lowered and
despite his effort to-repress it, there was a
tremor in hi, utterance.
Abel's soittary eye glanced toward the
lamp. "Mr. Jaffray, turn up the lamp,
'make it lighter."
-Glenham arranged the lamp, placed it

HE CRIUSTS.                        7i
upon a little table by the bedside, and then
reseating himself, again took Abels hand
in his own. Now the solitary eye was
fixed upon him.
"Abel," he said, "I trust you will not
permit whatas about to say to you-":
Glenham remembered, as hie began, the
words' of Dr. Pillule  "i could do no
good should I cat again $bfore morning.
4fter tiiat you had better, as gently aspossi-
ble, bring him to a knowlege o] his true con-
dition."
Buthe also remembered that should he
wait until after the physician had called
it might be too late. Besides, siould,in
the erly morning, Duval 'learn of bia
cashier' condition, heImight be confront-
ed by the banker ,himself.
" Better,"argued Glenham, in the'selfish-
ness of his soul, bett r a lnhadred Abel
Kramps should die than such a meeting'
should occur.'
So it was, as he sat there, that he re-
solv'ed to reveal to Abel Krainp h)is true
condition.
"Abel, what i ani about io' say to you
is a sad revelation, which concerns you-"
he hesitated,. then began again. " The
doctor informed me that-"
The -solitary eye ,xed, upon him as
he spoke, and watched' the changes of
Glenham's e  iitenance and his hesi-
tancy. "Mr. 3Mfrayspeak it out. If the
doctor hais 'said I ani to die'of my hurts,
let me know it. I am firmer stuff than you
im-imnagine."
A "I am glad to hear it, Abel. I-the
doctor-"
"Says I can not recover, is that it "
There was not a tremor in the cashier's
voiae its l interrupted the hesitancy of
Glenhani.
"That i's is'assertion."
"Ho4-hew iong-1ow many days did
he givrme'V"
'"Daysl not days, Abel."
" Hours, then. Even, were the time re-
diced to minutes t would not', flinch;
good friend tell me."
"Only a few hours; he said it was im
possible you could'survive another day."'

lit

4
ii

ii
ii


BETWEEN THE.RUSTS.,                 73.

f:
iiI :i
II

"So be it. God's will be. done!" said
Abel Kramp, There was a solemnity iiM"
hi' tone ililchli for the moment 'awed
Gienham.     *
"Mr.. Jaffray, I havesopie papers to irii
trust to you, which you will not receive
until after-afei I amn oit of the wo-Ad.
See! ' I, have,tfie keys-here,-open that
book-case, take, down from the second'
shelf tha' copy of Macaulay's'England."
Glenham took the keys.
" Now," tlioight he, 'is my tine."
He took the~volume from the shelf.
" Brig it here," said Abel.
Glenhapi handedO him the work, It was
in ordinary binding, somewhat worn.
"You will not' leave me until -until all
is over?" There was a tremulous* ex-
pression of anxiety in his tone.,
"You may be sure of that,' s'aid Glen-
ham.
"I am grateful. N ow," the cashier said
as he opened the book "do you 'se, as
I turn the pages," he turned them slowly,
but not leaf by'leaf, "that here and there
certain letters are underscored"by the
mark, lightly made, of a peiicilI"  .
As he spoke he p6tiitud out at random
on the different- pages a letter here and
there which wap sidesignated.
I see them,, said, Glenhamn, somewhat
puzzled as to what Macanilays History of
,England and these marked letter's had to
do with' the pagers to which the cashier
had alluded.
Abel Kramp closed the book and placed
it under his pillow.
When I am gone take the book away
with you. Then begin at the nineteenth
page, and by taking each letter as it occurs,
through, until you reach the thirty-ninth
page, you will find the direction' which
will place within your hands the papers
of which I have spoken. Read themi, and
act as yon see fit.' I-I will be beyond
all reach of whatever harm may occur
from their use."
Glenham saw that the period to Which
Dr. Pillule had referred in the 04Wndition
of his patient was at hand.
"He may seem to grow stronger."

II '
I''
II ~
'HF
It
I'
I,
II~ ~
Jr
11

Evidently Abel Kramp had . grown
strong. 'there were no more expres-
sions of pain.
His face was ealm, atid the solitary feye
as clear and bright, as the lamplight fell
upon it, as if the glaze of death were an
hundred years away.
Stronger! 'So auch so'that Glenham
began to feel that there was a chance of'
life, despite' Dr. Pillulel' assertions.,
But it did not deceive Abel.
He knew that death was near. He knew
that 'his present return of strength, and
the clearness of'his mental' faculties, were
but the last transient faash of the life-
light ere it went out forever.'
Stronger! why he feit strong enough
to hae arisen from his beBd and' gone,
about his Usual avocations.
"Mr. Glenham," he said, "you may
think it strange thAt I do not or an 'not
place these papers' of which I' spekk in
your possession. "Whei the gieat change'
shall have passed  ou *ill know why,
even though my lips are motionless."
"Hair you no r'laitives li'ving,Indne'to
whom I could communicate ?" said Glen-
hai, anxious to get Abel- to converse'
upon the subject nearest to his heart.
"Relitio'1s!" said Abel, the solitai-y.
eye turning suddenly upoii glenham,
"relations I no, none. At least none
that I claim or that dare claim me.'Jtf-
fray; while I have the strengthI will' tell,
you something that I had resolved never
to utter to mortal'being  It is a fragment
of my life history.' It will not' be very
loig;' it may not be uninteiesting--6s.-
pecially to you who have passed through
so much of trouble. Will' you listen to
it ?"
"Will I listen ?7" said Glenh'am, "'Wly,-
Abel, you should not ask that question.
Whatever you have'to say, you can rest
assured, Iwill not only listen but treasure'
it up in'my mind as the legacy of a trust
sacred from betrayal."
" Betrayal! Glenham' it maybe neces-
sary that you a hold repeat it hereafter
to one who will ,iot be so quiet inheaing
it as you are now."

"Ald whois that?" asked Glenham,
half divining the namewhijh the cashier
was about to uer.
"Jerome Duval!"
Well, wel, if it concerns hin, go on."
"YYouiaskd me if   had any relatives
living, If you can calla disgraced
wretched woman, ,who is by law still'my
wife, but in every other respect, an out-'
cast from my house and heart a relation,
then I have one.'
'"A wife-disgraced! An oateast, Abel?
Why, I never knew you were, married.
Years and years ago I remembeiyou just
as you are ngwsave ju the n natural change
of age-I never. dreamed you of all men
were 'miie,
"The secret of that marriage And its
awful esult hqs been well iept, for there
were bpt three until now  who knew the
clote of: that dreama of hope-Jerome
Duv, my      t wife and in seIl. And
.it hertof them have had, no care to make
the secret knon" "
Glenh am litened igerly.
Evidetly a yevelatin was comig
more serious'.in itsimport than he hadI
expected.
After a pause, during which Abel had
raisedielf upon his       , ith his.
head uest   upon hishand 'while Gieni
han iioved    I the  mp o tyatitp light fell
directly upon thp facs of the cashier \whil
it lefthis ow4in the s,w, continuede.
"low many yer" ago it ws I need
not.ay, tIe dates, of the transaction
which I am about tospeakywFn
amoig the pfrs you, wll, recgige bere-
,aft  It.was ,years tgo, when, fist.en-
tered thq, employ qf )iva,1, Ut as his
cashierbut -as a mere clerl-one -of't4e
lowest.in           g ihbaoJ i gImquse,. and at ,,
small-salgry. A        uth~atiue1Dyval ,a
not accnulate. the wealth in.whiqh he
now roven but )p wa srely ;aying the
foundation fqr it.,, AtIthe elose of the first
.year, of rny employment I .became ac-
'quaipted ,y mere geeid   iA   young
girl not         o      prspp as she
was in Inapners. There was -a fascination
in. her utterance. a nameless charm in

every gesture and glance of the clear blue
eyes which were irresistible."
CHAPTER XXXII.
LETTERS FROM AN OLD TRUNK AND
WHAT THEY DID.
qLEN.HAM looked at his watch. Tho
monients were slowly creeping on toward
the dawn.
He began to grow impatient. Perhaps
the eashjer's strength would fail before his
story was.finished.
But there was as yet no quiver in his
tone; he seemed rather to grow stronger,
and the solitary eye brighter and' more
expressive.
And as Glenham noted this he began
to wonder within himself if after all the
doctor might not have been mistaken in
hsrassertion.
This young girl came to, the banking-
house guite often-two or three times a
eek. Upon the occasion, of her first
visit t, nd that was when I saw her for
the fir t time, she inquired for Mr. Duval.
She was well clad, not expensively, but
neatly, as if she might, perhaps, be the
daughter ,of a tradesinan in comfortable
pircunstances. I. showed her into Du-
va}'s private office.
"A As I did so -how well I remember it-
e started up, hi's face flis'hed, and he
seemed like one half bewildered by the
sudden appearance'of an apparition. But
he Said nothing.' He stood thus for a mo-
Xnent .ade glanced at 'me and point-
ed to.$he, door. I understood his wish.
I retired and closed the d9or after me. I
had taken gut astep or two from it when
heard' thesound    f the-key turning in
the lock. He lid locked the door. I
coulid-hear a murmur of Voices, but noth-
ng distinctly. B'y and by the door was
pponed and he called mein. Mr. Kramp,
this is Miss~Rudo1phe. Wheneyer and at
.whatever time she may call, apd hov-
ever much I may be engygedl she is al-
ways. to be admitted. Miss Rudpiphe,
this is Mr. Abel. ramp, who, from this

'V

72               BETWEEIN THE CRUSTS.


74

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

I

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

day is my cashier, the gentleman of whom  honest, trustworthy, and I desire to see,
I have spoken tio you!                you have that which every man craves-'
" Then she left the office, and thencefor- a home. Why should you not have it?
ward, as I have told you, her visits be- You are young, temperate, and as for
came frequent. Mr. Ja'ffray, a-a glass your. deformity of persn--who shall de-
of water, if you please."             spise the diamond 'because its exierior'is
Glenham  gave him   the glass. The rough. Every gem can not be polished,
cashier's hand was as steady as his own.  yet it is none the les a gem. You have
Again the doubt crossed Glenham's noticed Miss Rudolphe'           ,
mind whether Dr. Pillule had not erred  "I bowed. Never before had I known
in his judgment of Abel's condition.  Duval to be    so, familiar with  vie.
"Some weeks passed on, these visits The next question confused me uttierly-
continuing," said the cashier, "and at 'Would you like' to marrf Miss' Ru-
each visit I became more familiar with dolphe I'I
her, almost as familiar as if she had be-  "What could I sa I I hesitated, stamp
come an acquaintance. Few words pass- mered, changed color, and 'a fast said,
ed between us, and those were merely the 'Miss Rudolphe-she.-I-do not- know
ordinary greetings of the time. Shd fas- that she-I- and 'then I broke down
Cinated me with the indescribable grace -  completely. Duval smiled. 'It is prob-
a sort of witchery of manner-lured me ably natural you should be confus'ed, but
into what I might call a d ay dream of in- listen to me.'. I have known Miis Ru-
fatuation. I thought I loved her. Per- dolphe some time., She ,is 'an' orphan,
haps it was love. But what could there alone in the world. iXanyImonths ago I
ever be in common between a young girl became acquainted by accident with her'
full of life and animation, charmingenough  history, her 'character, and her position.
to have won a prince, and me? I, a de- I befriended her, 'aided her. One day
formed, misshapen being, Xvith but one she came here unexpectedly to ne. She
eye, with no fortune, a 'mere dependent then beheld you for the first tine. 'You
upon the salary vouchsafed me by Jeroine know' that woien 'take strange fancies,
Duval I Folly, was it not Mr. Jariray '1 and that love is'r5rely a *orshipper of
Well, I stifled my feelings, and nursed forms and, ceremonies.  She sa*  you
the thought only as 'one cherishes the again and again is' she came and Went
memory of a pleasant dream, the realiza- from  this place. Sh' M love  you, Abel,
tion of which may never 'come. I had why or for *hatreason I know not, that
only my education, my integrity, and de- is her ,oWA secret. Itf; nt a 'whim, I am
foumity. Let that pass. One day, after suie. .She has confessed this *6 me as she
she had gone, Duval called me into the *ould hve confes ed It to her father.
private office, bade me close the door and Abel, will yoti nihrry' her?"  To' say
be seated. There was a thoughtful, or that I was dazed at this revelation, is
rather, a troubled look upon his face. feeble description of my feelings, yet it
"'Abel,' said he, 'did you ever con- brought a thrill of gladness'-to me. I felt
template marriage? ' The question took that there was at least on in the'world
me aback. It puzzled, astonished me, who looked beyond Ind forgot my phy-
and in answer I only stared at him. sical deformity.' I was'ai simple as a'chil
'You understand the question. do you in this. 'I never suspected the terrible
not; there is nothing singular about it, is conspiracy of hih 'I was to be the vic-
there I' 'No,' I finally replied, half be- tim. As I recovered. from 'my astonish-
wildered, 'no-but   marriage-I-why    ment, in the credulity, born, perhaps, of
there is no possibility of that.'   ' that vanity natural'to manwihen a w0man
"' Yes there is, Abel. I will tell you a is in question, I became elated; a new life
secret. I like you, Abel; you have been seemed to open its gates' to receive me; I

75

felt that the deformed, 'ungainly Abel
Kramp was uo longer a lonely, uncarpd
for being. Duval read my thoughts and
my fate was fixed.
"The next day, or the day after, she
camJ., again, smiled upon me, and there
seemed to be an unfathomable depth of
yearning love in the glance of her blue
eyes, blind fool that I was, to think it
I scarcely dared trust myself-to speak to
her in the presence of the clerks about me,
as I conducted her to the private office.
I do not care to relate-how, within two or
three weeks, the net was woven which en-,
meshed me, how she won mewithher wiles,
her fascination and apparently guileless
innocence. It. is enough to say that we
'were married. She was, so I was led.to
believe, poor and friendless, with only
Jerome Duval as her, dependence. .How I
worshiped her as I led her from the
presence of the minister who performed
the marriage .service to. our-our home-
here, Mr. Jaffray, here in these very
rooms. Duval, made ,me a present of a
watch and chain, the same I now wear,
gave me .n increase of salary, and I be.
gan to think .in the midst of my new-
found happiness that Jerome Duval's
stern stolidity, his grasping greed, hie
haughty, overbearing demeanor were af-
ter all only the cloak which hid from the
world a kindly heart, generous nature
and the goodness of the Christian. Nel'
lie-that was her name, apparently idol
ized me-and returning home to her pre
sence after business hours from the dul
round of work in the banking-house
seemed like coming out of the darknes
into the full glory of a paradise. Bu
then came darkness, the terrible darknes
which engulfs the soul and crushes ou
the light of hope, a darkness more awful
than that of death itself. One day-we ha
then been married four months-I cam
home rather earlier than usual. She ha
gone out, probably on some trivial shop
ping errand. I had a pass-key by which
could enter at all times. Into this ver
room I came. I busied myself a whil
in looking over some papers-bills, rc

',

ceipts,and memoranda. There wasia small
trunk in one corner of the room in which
Nellie--how Ihate the naamq-kept sundry
odds and ends of ribbons, lace, and a few
keepsakes and trinkets, which she said had
once belonged to her mother. Some evil
or good spirit, thought, or whatever you
may call the sudden feeling pf curiosity
which came upon me, prompted me to
notice that it was unlocked, the key re-
mainingin the lock, led me to raise the
lid, and with no more than the vague
idea of satisfying this curiosity to exam-
ino Ats contents. In one corner there
was a little pasteboard box, tied around
with half a dozen findings of tape and
securely tied.
" Twice I passed over the box, the last
time as I was about closing the lid, when
there came again that strange, irresistible
feeling of curiosity- a feeling foreign to
my nature-to open the box and - learn
what it contained, 'Some trinkets, me-
mentos, perhaps,' I thought. At last I
yielded,,I lifted it out and opened it. It
held nothing but' two packages qf letters,
not old letters, either, as you might sup-
pose. Drawing one at random from one
of the packages I opened it and read it.
Had it been my death sentence it could
not have appalled me more. My brain
fairly reeled. It was-it was--"
The cashier's voice grew husky. He
- seemed to be choking. "Water, Mr. Jaff--
- water-" he gasped.
-   Glenham gave him a full glass. After
I he had drank it he somewhat recovered.
,  ,ot a word of the narrative had escap.
a ed Glenham. He began to believe that a
t power stronger than his own was leading
s him surely and swiftly to the accomplish-
t ment of his revenge upon JeromeDuval;
il and placing within his reach and to his
d use the means to make it'the more crush-
e ing and overwhelming.
d    The cashier inquired the time.
s-   Glenham answered, "Three o'clock."
I   The cashier paused a few moments as if
y collecting his thoughgs for a final effort,
le and then resumed his narrative, but evi-
e- deftly with less strength.

I

.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.                 77

76

BETWEEN THE CRUSTY9.

"That letter was in the-handwriting of'
Jeronie Duval, and had I read none 'of the
rest, it alone wouId have 'been sufficient.
Why'she had not destroyed th6te'~il'e
evidences of her 'guilt 'was ~' 'm ystery to,
iie. Oh,'God! whAt a tevelatioi fifn-'
iquity, of v ilany they weie. This letter,
and others in the packages, written to her
by Duval, disclbsed'tlie fabt that, mdithg
before I 'ifrried her', this woman;"this
girl' had' been betrayed'by him Fo other
construction 'ould'be placed upon it-and
was his mistress, that he had sent her'in-
to the country'in oi-der that the result of'
her shame and"his villany might n6t be
known here, that she suddenly retarnid'
to the city and came into the baindtg-
house on that fir't -day I saw her to de-
mand reparation--maria'ge-little dream-
ing that Dural himself wias already'mar-
ried. How he, a' man e'ven then so'well
known had concealed that froin her, or
whether she reAlly knew he wat married,
and hoped by her  knowledge of the fact
to force him into compliance 'with what-
ever pecuniary demand she chose 'to
make, I never cared to know. The whole
damning' business was before me. The
plot he contrived, to which she gave her
willing consent, to marry me to her, thus
mike an honest woman of her, and give
legitimacy to her sin."
"And yet you remained in his employ
after this?'' said Glenham.I
"Yes, until now. I swore as I knelt be;-
side that trunk, holding the terrible ev-
idence of their guilt, of my own shame,
and of the accursed conspiracy of which
I -I the cripple, the defornied-Abel'Kramp
was the victim--that henceforth I wsoild
crush Jerome Duval in one way or an'
other. I'knew he would not dare dis-
chm'rge me, but I knew that he would en--
dieavor to get rid of me in some other way
if be could. So I kept a wary eye upon
Glenlham started' up. The cashier as he
wac speaking suddenly fell back upon the
led and uttered a low groun. I

"Abel, vhat'is the matt6r; are 'you
worse, in paiii'agaii can't you speak?'"
i egefttly the cashier's 1 ips'moved; the
solitary eye opened.  '        e
Mr. Jaffray, 'the end is near--the  st
of' y nyiny -lifstofthe letters-"the let-
,trs lf-retch-Dutl-you-ifind-"you
will find with' the other paper you. are
to recei#v- feel-I
" Here Abel take this medicine, you
have fatigued yourself, that is all."
" No, -n.' God bless you Jaiffray, for-
for ydourlinndesg-" Nor d moment he
greW stionger'and his utterance more dis-
tinct." "'All 'that i in this rooni I have
provided for imi'm 'fwill, l'have no private
papers here, onlyay bobks and what you
see. My will t- is in the n'bpei drawier
of that bureau. You see de'kth do6s not
frighten me. Hand iny-wil ito the doctiji
-your doctor. Here&amp; is my 'watch and
ch 'in-this 'book-you nitist take them.
with you.' All the lettetg and papes-
.and-and-'read  the book-,yours-will
direct' ou where to find theni-m Lm ,,
The features of the' cashie'r Were sud-
denly convulsed, his limbs' *ere' drawn
up, the very hed upon which 'he writhed*
shook with his efforts in this, his last
struggle.
Presently the" writhing  ceased. The
pain was gone.
'Glenham bent over him.-
He still breathed, 'slowly, "slower, a
twitching of 'le lips, a "sudde opening
and closing of the solitaiy'eye, '.ow dull-'
ed ahd glazed with the filA  of comingdis-
solutibn, on6 long-drawn breth, and all
was over. The solitary eye'was looking,
into the dread taystery of another world
than this.  - '
And 'as Glenham bent over him; as the
dull, ashen gray of death 'crept over' the'
dead man's face, the ,du11, ashen gray of
the d 'wn crt in through the wixidSws
and over the room.
And 'Glephaim was left to Conplete the
story of Jeroine Dunal's'lshier.

CHAPTER XXXIII.
DR. PILLULE GETS THE WILL.
" Poon tellowy" said Glenham, "his is
another journey ended;- another atom
vanished from ,earth into the earth to
make earth. ' Poor patient, plodding,
simple, credulous-hearted victim  of a
money demon. ,Well, so this is his, fate.
What will mine be I' When will my jour-
,ney end."1
Theoom had become quite light.
Reverently and tenderly he folded the
hands of the dad across, the stifld breast,
and with a lastlook at the rigid features
-he drew the :sheet-up over the face and,
turned away fora moment.
Then, recollecting himself, he stepped to
the' bedside and drew from beneath'the
pillow the book andthe watch.
- ' These .are my .leghey," he thought.
He placed the watch in his pocket.
At that &amp;instant he heard some one as-
cending the stairs.
. "The Doctor," said'Glenham-
A tap at the door. Glenham locked
it.    -
Dr. Pillule entered.
" Gone? As I thought You see I was
,right."
Really for the itioment, in his profes-
sionalt pride, the, doctor looked pleased,
then changing his expression to one more
appropriate to him 'who stands in "the
presencee :of the majesty of - death, - he
added, "Was his death painless-how
long since-you were with himj of course?'
Glenham answered these ,questions a,
'best .he could and then added, 't'he 're
tained'is'senises to'the -lait moment., 'H
requested ine to place his-will 'which i
there in the ,bureaii drawer, .in, you
charge.,
cAh !Iyes.; but had We not better leav
the disposition 'of iis " effects to Mr.
r. -   ; what banker was it, bis em
 . , :I  .        i
"Mr. Jerome1Dukl "
Dawal1, 'Ah  Vknow him well."
It *astlie'eashier's request' that M
Daval should not have 'charge .of th

I
B
e
0
L1

I,
IL

"Ah I-Then why not you?    By the
way, this death, caused by an, accident,
involves, notifying the coroner. Word
had better be sent to Duval concerning it.
Sad case-very, very."
"Doctor," said Glenliam, "-I have a
favor to ask "of you. I do not wish to bo
known in this affair. It is not necessary
-that I should. You can notify Duval and
the croner, if you 'ike. 'You can 8tato
to the coroner the circuustances, the
cause of death, and that ih'his'last hours
he was cared for by a friend who,.'imine-
diately after his death, disappeard',;
that you were called in by this friend.
Duval will attend to the funeral expen-
ses, without doubt; your services I will
'take care' of.' ' Take the will; we will
leave here fogethei. You can lock the
door, take the 'key with you, and
' Oh, 'I ee," said the doctor. "Well,
yet; certainly, if you desire, Mr. Glenham.
I am willing to oblige you in this, so that
it doba not interfere with-with my duty
as a physician. But yourj name ?"
"Must not be mentioned in connection
with it. Ipray 'you, my dear doctor, re-
member this."
"Very well. You have been reading
to him ?
, Yes, yes; this book, he, told me to
keep in remembrance of him."
The doctor tlrew.back the sheet, look-
edat the face, then turned away, as Glen-
ham brought forthifrom the bureaudrawer
the will. He handed it to the doctor who
thrust it into his breast pocket.
Then in, silence .Ahey passed out of'the
e room) locked, the- door,'and descended to
the Aidewallk.
r
Aftei 'a, brief ,whispered consultation
they separated, .the doctor :entering his
coupe and.Glenham walking rapidly up
the street, with the book in his hand;.
Row that he 'was Aout and away from
the ciamber'of 6a._th 'lenham gave but
little thought totde .dead cashier other
f. than in connection with what the reirela-
ie tion, the s6lutiont of'the riddle of the book
.would afford.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

79 '

CHAPTER XXXIV-
.JE9OME DUVAL IS SOMEWHAT TROUBLED.
Dr. Pillulo Was driven directly to the
residence of Jerome Dqval.
The eminent Christian and banker had
not yet arisen--so the servant who an-
swered the summons asserted.
"Hand him this qard," said the doctor.
"I must see him immediately-it is upon
a matter of importance."
The servant disappeared, leaving the
doctor waitipg upon the threshold of the
door.
Presently he returned.
"Mr. Duval will see you directly, sir,
please step this way)'
He conducted the doctor to the bank-
er's sitting room-the same in which, he
was sitting so comfortably long before on
that March evening when he read in the
afternoon papers of -he terrible death of
his daughter, Mary Jafftrar
In a few moments the banker, in morn.
ing gown and slippers, entered.
This is an early visit, doctor, but in
n0 wise connected with your professional
duties I trupf- 7
ePartly. I came to inform you that yes-
terday afternoon your cashier, Mr. Abel
Kramp-"
"Abel-Abel-why-"
"Abel Kramp met with an accident
while returning to his home, and "-
Accident I. ,t-,
"Precisely-which has resulted in his
death."
"Abel Kramp dead!" exclaimed Du-
val.   Abel Krahup d-e-a-d," he repeated,
slowly, as if endeavoring to realize the
fact more surely as he spoke.
"Dead, sir. Some friend of his con-
veyed him to his apartments, sent for me,
and then watched beside him until he
died."
"Dead! dead !.. That is bad--very bad
news. Cashiers' like him axe hard to fid.
A friend did you say ,
taDi fY'ou learn the name or address of
that friendI

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

1I was in the room but twice, and--"
began the doctor evasively.
"You thought only of your patient, I
presume, and did not-"
"My stay was brief at each visit.
And here- " the doctor drew forth the-
dead man's will- "is a will which he. re-
quested me to take charge of. I have
not read it nor.did he give me any clue to
its contents. I would rather you had
charge of it-my professional-labors you.
see-you understand?'"I
"Of course--ertainly," said .Duvalr
taking the will with an eagerness which
did -not escape the attention of, the doc-
tor; "I shall attend to its bequests as,
faithfully as if he had been my brother."
"You know the location of his apart-
Mets" queried the doctor-.
1" Most certainly, and of :all my em-
ployees."1
"You will of course take charge of his-
funeral obsequies?" .      .
brHesiall have as tender and respectful
burial."
"I shall notify the coroner. The in-
quest will doubtless -be brief-my own
statement with the information of the ac-
cident as given me by his friend will be-
all that is necessary to decide the -case.
Upon my certificate,"no autopsy will be
neded."criI     I of --     -
1"- The certificateof a physician of your
reputation will be sufficient to allay all
doubt."
The doctor 'bowed in deference to the
compliment.,
" I will order my carriage at once," said'
Duval, "and drive over to his apar-tments.
Is there any one now with him?"
".No. I locked the, room-here is the
key. Let an undertaker be summoned
after notifying the coroner. Should'my
-presence be required before teno'clook.I
-will be at my offce"
" Thank you, thank you," said Duval..
" This is dreadful, however. 'Itis -the-
first death among :my employees. since I
bave been in.,the,' banking business.
Really, doctor, it has shocked me, more
than perhaps you are aware of. I have a.

habit of restraining the expression of my
feelings; but surely this is one of those
accidents-one of those unexpected occur-'
rences which are 41 the more startling-
when-when-"           '
"There, Mr,,Duval, I understand what
you would say. It is distressing, but
must be borrie." .
It was vell the doctor interrupted him,
for the eminent Christian and banker in
his sudden anxiety to appear deeply af-
fected by the loss of his cashier, and to
conceal his real feeling in the matter, had
become muddled, and his usual calm self-
possession was somewhat weakened..
"Evidently," thought the doctor, "it
would take more'than one cashier's death
'to bring grief to this man's heart." But
he sd nothing.
A few more words were exchanged,
and the doctor, with such polite expres-
sions of cojidolence and of good wishes
which he considered' necessary frm a
physician to a nabob who one day might
require  his  services , the amiable, pair
parted.
The doctor to his office, and Jerome
Duvalto order his carriage and prepare for
his mission to the dead, cashier's apart-,
ments.
'So-9o-Abel Kramp is gone! One
more stumbling-block out of my way-
one less fear beforeme ; one less trouble
tobe bought up. I used the unsightly
cripple a~s my tool, quieted' is" rebetliouE
it'withmoney, aud now- Thus com
tuning with hinelf as he 'ascended th(
broad, staircase to his camber, Duva
sudenl , with hand 'upon the baluste
rail, pauseded'
r Thiswill-perhaps it may allude to-
to 1eli. 'He hated me; that I could rea
in every expression 6' his face,"and c
that solitay ee when it gleamed upoi
ae, yet,(heeemed' satisfied, 'remaine
with me-ids Avarice outweigliedhis desir
for evenge Ilthvenge 'hih -h6w coul
such a being, so utterly devoid of ambi
tion tndw of such an impulse or cheris
sueh a jassioi asre enge. Yet h'e hate
ne; ate is'the parent of revenge, a

/ \

L
U
ii
'I
I
If
I

L

78

this will-Pshaw! The doctor did not
read it. , It is in my possession, no fur-
ther inquiry will be made concerning it,
and 'if .it makes reference to Nellie Ru-
dolph- but his other papers,1memoranda,
perhaps 'he may have made some ' Such)
worms do such things someAtines as even
keep a diary. 'I'll secure them. There
shall be U tell-tale scraps to male gossip
for the world concerning me or mine."
So, arguing'in this Idisjointed manner,
as is the wont of men of his nature, he
proceeded to dress, with his usual scrupu-
lous care, but with more than usual ce-
lerity.
Then' another subject jf .annoyance
came up.  "That friend, who had at-
tended so faithfully to the cashier in his
last moments-what night not Abel
Kramp have divulged to him I Who was
this friend?1" ;Abel, so far as Duval knew,
had no ,special visitors at the banking
house, and butrarely lad.any onp called to
see him personally, so f4r as.the banlger's
observationsextendf.,4"Friend? This was
the first intimation ho had had that such
a being ever existed. Surely, the doctor
should have inguired. Strange remiss-
ness, on his part in such a series case."
At last being dressed,' and the carriage
announced as. in waiting at the door,
Duval, giving the order to the coachman,
was driven away.
On his way there were two points inIs
cogitations which assumed paramount im-
e portance.
Ohe was td the identity of that' un-
known friend.
The other was as to what revelations,
- if any, Abel Kramp had made either to
d his friend or. to the doctor.
f   If any had been made, to the doctor
n would. not the doctor. have mentioned
d something of itI
e   To reliev his mind, as he rode, leaning
d back in' the catriag, he' opened the will
i- 'and read it.
h    There was not much of it.
d    It''covered only a single sheet of law
d 'paper and was In Abel's own handwriting.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

Throughout there was no mention or al-
lusion whatever to his recusant wife.
Duval discerning this felt relieved.
Knowing this, by his first quick glance
at its contents, he reperused it more
slowly, so as to thoroughly understand it
and its bequests, or rather bequest.
For it left without reservation all his
property, the accumulation of his savings,
hib furniture, pictures, articles of vertu,
books, as well as the whole of his deposit
in the savings-bank to Alexander Rogers,
"clerk," so the will singularly read,
formerlyy in the employ of Jerome Du-
val, banker, but discharged upon account
of illness, and left to die in poverty by the
employer he had faithfully and honestly
served for seven years, but who 'fortuaate-
ly found a friend and protector that r'es-
cued him."
"'Rogers!"   muttered Duval. "1 re-
member    hini-a 'thin-faced, gioveling
sort of a fellow, but honest.ges, 'fo he
had neither the' sene or' eoura'ge td be
otherwise." So, sa !"he is the' legatee, eli?
Well, when ii co hes into' tihis' inhdrit-
ance he will kiiow it-that'P'all,"' and
with a smile his folded it up and pla&amp;dlit
in an inside pocket. - "             "
"What ia fool Kranip swas to inake a
will- without witnesses(, without the at-
testation of a notary or'any of the for-
malities and legal requirements'to make it
binding.,Bah I"
The carriaget this moiet stopped.
Duval looked out.
The coroner's office was before him.

CHAPTER XXXV.
LOUISE   TRAPO,  Wf1
SOLVES' THE RIDDLE'OF TH  ' B4.OK
CONVERSES WITH A DETECT1vE.
MEANWHILE, Glenham,;holdiig fst to
the book, which just theU seemed, to uim a
treasure as precious as whatever pf wealth
he had so strangely by the freak of, for.
tune become possessed of, had regchqd his
hotel and retired to his apartments. Al-
though it was early, and he felt exhaust-

ed from his night's vigil with the dying
cashier, yet' he satt him down and at once
began to study out the solution of the
mysterious combination of marked let-
ters.
"Begin at page nineteen," he repeated,
"and trace them 'out to page thirty-nine.
Strange.coincidence. Nineteen thirty-nine
was the number of the ticket which drew
the hundred thousand dollars. Is there
more of a significance in this than I can
fathom?1 Is there an irresistible fatality
thus 'vaiguely r vedling 'itself by such
signs of its worl that is leading ne on to
the end'; that, is gathering up one by one
the threads?' Slowly, it may be, yet I
have a presentiment' the. eid is n6t
far off,'andthat the last'actf th play s
being commenced.. Alas! !who,'bf all, the
actors shalli emain to speakhe iipilogne 'I
Thus 'fr I have succeed 4; its8fi' in
'hatever I ba'veateipted Thee been
N&amp;eesfnl, and (jieIy, 'ileithy,'Ashave
fashion    m y course,' as iiqtm y and si-
'iLetly has' he 'wrk' by the  i wa ybeeh' ai--
complished. Let me see - Edith -AhI
Poor girl, anst she, too, fall"'I'The sister
my detd1Wif     o yoing, so innocent,
s i6o4ding  the daughter of the min
whom I hatq with all theAintensity ofla
life-long enemyti6 daughter f the man
into'whose house I dare not enter- inUt
she ie another 'eck Ji Yet eihild I
vreyal up on hertomarry me, clan-
deiely    an i    nt is- rpbaA1    f'or

hAould I not even tyuhausc"ierevenge
upon Djsval and sti   v , happ 'iufso
lhT g  appmepsaiad i mei6,inuid'1r~tep-
tion she 'dg4 ever have while in  s
car    We , g ell the futur ne ean
resolve it., rt is but' for me 'to shape my
course a   would have it;  iisfo 4esti-
ny to sahapit a'W i 'will '. Ie: ow for this
book "
Thus musig, he began Ia work.
Other scen was ,   pogressng in one
of the great 4imly-ligie4 parlors 1ofthe
House of Echoes.

60

I

it

L

DR. PILLULE AT. THE DOOR OF ABEL KRA MPS APARTMENT.

I


11

Louise Trainor was there, looking pale
and worn, yet with her whole mind,'en-
grossed with the absorbing, ruling idea-
the detection of the murderer of her
brother, or the clearing away of the mys-
tery which surrounded his disappearance.
Upon the day on which she had so sid-
denly face to face encountered Moquard,
and so signally failed in her endeavor to
secure his detention she formed' another
resolve.. She began to see how hopeless
it was to depend upon her own unaided
efforts, and she also began to feel that it
was wearing her away and in this ex-
haustion, mental and physical, destroying
her power to steadily continue the par-
suit.
She was alone in the world-save in so
far as her: motherwas concerned there
werenone in all the frivolous crowd with
whom her social position brought her in
contact upon either whose friendship or
confidence she couldirely.save-I----A' "
To her mother of late she had avoided
all reference to the matter; for She was
feeble, and any further mental excitement
than that she had alreadyborne in mourn-
ing over the loss of her son, whose life -had
been the g16ry of her existence. might
bring.upon her a mortal illness.
To the mother, her mind weakened by
het bodily ailments, the past was fast be-
coming a -mere dream. To her daughter-
she now looked for consolation and.solace
-and. Louise knowing- this, took care,'
with:'all tenderness and love, to obtrude
upon her nothing which would revive' all
the sorrow and anguish of that deaO'
past.
But as for herself, she had not forgotten
the words she had uttered to Jeroni Du-
val, at.the outset of her search:
" Henceforth there is no rest for me n-
til my brother's death is revenged by
bringing to. justice: the man' who 'was his
slayer.   Would give all-,+yess
even my own life' for a, clue which will
lead me out of this dark mystery.".
Sincethei she .had'once again, as she
thdight, stood fice to face with that man;i
he was almostwithin her reach and yet

81

again he eluded her and was gone. In
all the- great city, so guarded and pro-
tected by the police, that man still roamed
at large, despite her endeavors, her weary
round of search I
Was it not terrible, this awful blank of
hopelessness which began to close in upon
herl
But she knew no such word as despair.
A new resolve had come upon her.
Once more slie had determined to employ
the agency of a detective.
The detective sat opposite her in that
great dimly-lighted room, into and out of
which the haunting echoes had so often
troops&amp;; sat there,,saying little but listen.
ing to her relation of all her search, and
of the circumstances attending it.
He was an easy, nonchalant seeming sort
of.person, with not at all bright eyes or any
facial expression of aptitude for his busi-
'ness. He rather would have been taken
by the ordinary observer for a sort of man
about town, bla$4 to anything in the
way of.excitement; a man of imperturba-
ble good nature,.not gifted with any no-
ticeable mental qualities, and one whose
social position.might-be high or might be
low. Neatly clad in the prevailing fash-
ion, in the prime of life, that is to say, not
.over forty, with a carefully trimmed mous-
tache, Mr. ,Tohn Trueman sat there with
iso little outwar4,expression of interest in
the subject that eyen Mios Trainor almost
doubted him,
'He was attached to a "Private,' Inde-
pendent Detective Bureau,' and was con-
sidered one of its most efficient officials,
and generally had'given him charge or the
working up of cases 'which other detect-
ives had abandoned-ashopeless. le had
not always heed1 successful in his under-
takings, but he had achieved enough in
his profession to bring him a large and,
indeed, an honorable reputation. He'nev-
er hadbeen: attached to the police force;
he had a natural aptitude for the business,
but never fancied -that restraint upon his
movements to which a regular official ia
obliged to submit.

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

UI.
(


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

U,
I
I
I

" On the fifth of March you say he land-
ed here ? inquired the detective.
" Yes."
"And on the fifth day of March a perso'
giving the name of Robert Trainor called
at the banking-house of Jerome Duval and
deposited that large amount of money, at,
say noontimeI "
"At eleven o'clock, according to Mr.
Duval," stated Miss Trainor.
" Yes, and he presented the letters of
introduction from Messrs. Bullion, Bond &amp;
Co., of London 4
" Precisely."
"Miss Trainor," said Mr Trueman,
stroking his chin reflectively, and speak-
Ing as calmly and slowly as if the whole
affair and his narration of it were a mat-
ter of no particular moment, "I see noth-
ing uncommon in this disappearance."
" Nothing  uncommon!"    exclaimed.
Louise Trainor.
" There are a hundred a year of- such
disappearances which come to our knowl-
edge, and the knowledge of the police.
In a city like this such things must be-
such things have to be among al the
other happenings. The only wonder, is
that there are not more of them."
"But, sir-."
"One moment, Miss. Excuse me," said
the apparently argumentative and disin-
terested Mr. Trueman.  "They're good
cases to work up sometimes. This one is
not very clear at the start. Now you see
you ain't sure but that your brother, Rob-
ert Trainor, was made away with in Lon-.
don, and that some one else, crossed the1
water with his baggage and -under his
name. No one on this side who knew
him has seen him so far as you or I know.
But I'll. start upon the theory that he
himself did actually land here.  Now
when you found he had come ashore and
had not, after twenty-four hours' search
and waiting put in an appearance,: you
ought to have come to us at once. Our'
chances would have been ten to one of
succeeding. Now they are only one to
ten that we fail."
" Fail! Do not say that!"

I

BETWEEN T

"My theory is this--providing he did
land here, and that is the theory on which
I will work up the case-that the man
who first called at the banking house was
your brother; that the next who' came
was one of the parties who had a hand in
his disappearance. You saw him during
your visit there-this map 7"1
" As plainly as I now see you."
"And you are positive that this man
whom you saw in the street a little while
ago was that man ?',
".As surely as I would have recognized
my own face in the glass I recognized
him."
" You see, Miss, this matter of identity
is not always a certainty. Besides,. if you
had had this man arrested when younet
him in the street you could hive done
nothing with him as the case now stands.
Mere suspicion without some proof to
back it won't do."-:
" From my description of him will you
be able to recognize'him."     . .
" That depends. My business is to hear
nothing, see nothing, know nothing, and
remember nothing, yet to hear every-
thing, see. everything, know everything
and: remember everything."     .
" Is there any hope.do you think"n-
" That is not for me to say, now. If
there was no hope in me I wouldn't un-
dertake the case.. - Hopei Miss Trainor, is
like a, good breakfast-it's an excellent
foundation for a good dAy's work... I.will
'try to get .through this puzzle,,after. my
own fashion. . You must have patience
and let me have my own time." If I fail
it will be nobody's fault-if there is any
fault in failure-but mine. ,Now, where
*shall I commtmicate with you at any or
il tines-at.your house or here?"
" At my own residence.".
Aft3r . but little further , conversation
Mr. Trueman took his leave, and left Miss
Trainer alone in the great roomaind not
I:entirely well satisfied with the detective's
manner.
"What cares he," she thought, "whe-
ther he succeeds or fails ;'be is .paid the
saihe. There's no more. feeling in the

I

man than there is in a finger-post. He'll
never unravel the mystery-never-never!
Only in the great hereafter will I know
the fate of poor Robert."
Quite different were the cogitations of
Mr. John Trueman as he sauntered away
from the house towards Broadway.
" These women are the most unreason-
able beings. They have no faith in pa-
tience. It's their nature to worry and
have their own way, 'specially if it hap-
pens to be the wrong way of something
they don't know anything about. They
can't wait. I'd rather deal with a dozen
men than'one woman in a matter of busi-
ness. It's my opinion-never mind. I'll
work this job up as best I can in my own
light, but it is a slim, a mighty slim
chance."
So musing as he went along, he came
to the noisy thoroughfare, paused a mo-
ment at the corner, as if undecided which
conise to take, up or down.
"Last March, ehI and now it's getting
into the fall. I shan't go to Duval's bank.
There's no. information to be obtained
there. Ill go to the office and think it
over."
So he did. At the office, seating himself
quietly and lighting a cigar, he proceeded
to arrange the information he had receiv-
ed from Miss Trainor, in what he called
"systematic working order."
Presently he took from the large table
in the centre of the office, a file of daily
papers.
"Only back to July,"' he said. "I11 go
to-the Herald office. I'll begin there. I'll
see in the March issues the reports of
coroners' cases-the found drowned, the
knocked on the head, and other little ac-
cidents of that nonth. There's nothing
like beginning with a good start. If that
Robert- Trainor, landed here he's been
hocussed, robbed, and made away with.
There is always a clue to eyery riddle-
the only trouble is to find it. A very
small key sometimes opens a very large
door. Let me see-ah-that burglary case.
I'll step over and see about that, and then
I'll take in the Herald on my way."

V.

HE CRUSTS.                        83
It had been scarcely two hours'since he
had left Miss Trainor, yet just as be threw
away the remains of his cigar and was
preparing to leave the office, a messenger
entered, bearing a note to his address.
He opened it deliberately- he did no-
thing hastily. He read simply these lines:
" Mr. TRUEMAN-In relating to you the
circumstances connected with my bro-
ther's disappearance, I omitted mention-
ing onething to you which, perhaps, may
be of value. He wrote me from London
that he hnad purchased a ticket in the
Havana Lottery, which ticket he may
have had with him when he landed. The
drawing of the lottery may not have oc-
curred until March. This information
may be of some use to you.   L
"Yours,        L. T.11
"Much use that is, but it may be. A man
in my business shouldn't despise anything,
except an empty pocket."
He folded the note, placed it in his
pocket, and left the office .
Mr. Detective Trueman had in this in-
terval formed his plan of action in this
special business of tracing out the fate of
Robert Trainor. It was his nature to be
obstinate in his adherence to whatever
theory he formed, and, to use his own ex-
pression, "nothing short of an earthquake
would move him " from it. To his credit,
however, be it said, his conclusions were
never arrived at hastily, and his judgment
only made after careful and deliberate in-
vestigation of a case or "job'" in all its
bearings.
He was one of those beings whose real
character and calibre of intellect women
find it hard, acute as they are, to under-
stand.  Therefore it was that Louise
Trainer, juaging him merely by super-
ficial oboervation and by his, apparent
stolidity of manner, distrusted his ability
even though she felt impelled by some
unaccountable impulse to yield him her
confidence.
When he left her presence shesat there
brooding over this one grief, that had
coine like a dark and evil shadow upon
her life, and under the influence of which
her mothlet too surely was gradually fad-
ing from her sight.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS,

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

She had hoped and prayed that every
day of her search, of her wearying endea-
vor might bring her some faint encourage-
ment; but as each day and each week had
come, only disappointment confronted
her. Now that she had resolved to leave
the work to the detective, Trueman, and
for the time, at least, to await with what
patience and hope she could, the, result of
his services, even this relief did not
bring her the mental rest she so much
needed.
For the sake of the dear memory of her
lost brother, and of all Is tenderness to
her front their school-days up to the hour
when he left his farewell kiss upon her
cheek, she had striven to' solve this mys-
tery, and yet-
From her brooding thought she was
aroused by the opening of the door.
A servant entered, leaving the body-,
guard of echoes to die away in the outer
hall.
" Miss Deadstone would like you, maam,
to come up to her room-her bud-wor, if
you please, ma'am.",
And with a bow' the minion of the
Deadstone mansion, withdrew, satisfied
that he had as gracefully as usual accom-
plished one of the most important,func-
tions of his position,
Louise 'Trainor ascended the broad
staircase and entered the apartment which
Miss Letty Deadstone occupied as her
boudoir.
Is it all arranged with the officer?"
asked Letty. -"Im so glad. Now that
you have it partially off your mind, come
iit down and let us have a cozy chat; it
ill cheer you up, Lohi. I'm afraid I will
have to keep you hete awhile unless you
become a little more like the Louise
Thinor of last year. By the way, I've
got a bit of gossip for you. Of course you
know the Rev. Mr. Pawridge ?" I
"I do. What of him, Letty?"
"Well, it's a great deal of. him, and if
the rumor are true, it's not much to his
credit."

CHAPTER XXXVI.
THE NEW READING OF- THE ENGLISH
HISTORY, AS FOUND BY GLENHAMS
GLENHAM slowly deciphered the enigma.
It was certainly a task requiring patience
if not labor. As he came to the under-
scored letters he transcribed them one
after another upon a sheet of paper, so
that at the expiration of two hours he
completed his task.
"At last ! he said, and gave a sigh of
relief as he laid the book aside upon the
table and read the result of the' dead man's
bequest.-
Thus, line for line, ran tlie solution of
those marked letters, from page 19 to
page 39 of "Macaulay's Hist:ory of Eng-
land"-a new reading, and one which per-
haps never before had been exacted from
a history:
To HIM TO WHOM I MAY INTRUST
THIS VOLUME AND THE SECRET IT CON--
TAINS: Take the book to the office of
Drill, Quillet &amp;  Co., attorneys, No. -
Wall street. Inquire for G. A. Drill; per-
ionally. 'Hand him the book an'd your
translation' of 'the marked letter. He
holds a duplicate history niarked precisely
in the same manner. Whatever I wish
whoever I may have iiitrusted this 'se-
cret in my .ying hour to know, aid what-
ever I may wish him to do in my"behalf,
or conceining the disposition of mnyrop-
erty, Mr. Drill will commicate freely;
but to none other until'such' time comes
or circumstances arise which may imper-
atively demand publicity of whatever
knowledge he may possess for thehake
of justice.         "ABEL KRAk."
"So! and until I see this attorney, Drill;
of the firi of Drill &amp; Quillet, I am al-
most as much in the dark as before. I
wonder in what way all this is to assist
me in 'my plans, or affeotDuval BI Strange,
very strange! What sectets of terrible imb
port this lawyer may possess concerning
the banker is beyond my ken -but 'I'1l
know before nightfall."
Carefully folding -the translation and
placing it in'his memorandaun-book,'and
looking the book up in his dressing-case

for temporary safety, he descended to his a flight of stairs, up and down which
late breakfast. As he passed through the divers smooth4-haired youths with porten-
c6rridor leading to the breakfast-rooms tous papers seemed to be continuously
he met the Rev. Mr. Pawridge.         plunging, he entered the offices of the
The reverend, gentleman had not that lawyers, Messrs. Drill &amp; Quillet.
beaming expression of universal love With A thin-faced youth, the counterpart of
which he was wont to, clothe that part of those whom he encountered upon the
his handsome face left visible by the over- stairs, 'and who was lolling back in an
shadowing glory of his blond" whiskers. easy chair, vacantly gazing at the dusty
He didn't look peaceful. FRAher, there window near him, was the only living
were indications that his mind either wa. object lie beheld
or had been undergoing some sort of a con-  "4Mr. Drill-is he in 0
vulsion- a volcanic eruption. He was The youth looked at his interrogator
swinging his glove in one hand, and with and drawled, "ZYes, sir, hes engaged a
the other-twitching nervously at his mous- present Will be at leisure soon, sir.'
tache, in a mannernot at all in keeping  Glenham seated himself and waited.
w uSome fifteen minutes had elapsed when
'His eyes were turned downward as he the callow youth, being called by a gruff
walked along, as if they were searching     .
0 voice, disappeared into the inner room or
for some lost pin of comfort that mAight be
-   lying upon the soft yielding carpet which puaesfie
lyin upu te sft~ieldng arpt wich He reappeared and bade Glenham enter
prevented 14im noticing the approachin            .     b
'  . . .    I ""Mr. Drill is at leisure now."
footsteps of Glenham, until that individ-
Glenhamn passed into the private oiee.
ual was almost upon him.. The moment    A little stout man with a gold eye-
they did meet, Glenham observed a spas- glass, bald head, feeble side-whiskers. and
modic effort on the part of the reverend an apoplectic nose sat at a table peering'
apostle of love to all. mankind to change up at him.
front, or in otlier words, to, assume his or- "Have I the pleasure oi addressing Mr.
diary bland and serene look,         G. A. Drill ?"
"Good morning, Mr. Glenham."          "Iy name, sir," said Drill, in his short
"I am happy in meeting you, sir," was gruff tone, " What can I do for you sir ?'
Glenham's response. Mr. Pawridge hesi-  Glenham made no verbal reply to this
tated, held out his hand for the stereo- query but handed the lawyer the book-
typed  greeting, then , said something  "'Macaulay's History of England."
about the extraordinary condition of the  "Ah 1 " he piered sharply through his-
weather (it was more than ordinary glasses at Glenham. "Wait 1"
pleasant), and something apologetic but  He opened-the book.
partially  unintelligible  concerning  an H
AA he did -s6 Glenham drew from his
early call-compelled to make upon- a
dear sister-and then he passed, on, not memorandum book the translation.
only to the great relief of Glenham, wbo "This, I believe, accompanies the book,
ad I presume' is a sufficient explanation
was in no humor for talking, but -no doubt an
to his own still greater satisfaction,  of my presence here."
I ,    f                 I The la',wyer took the paper, glanced at
"It may be possible that my reverend   h     yea
friend has had a cloud cast upon his serer- it, 'andtheht 'opened a'drawer in the table
ity of mind Perhaps- Madame Moquard at Which he sat.
-pshaw-I've something else to think of  Then he brought out 'of his drawer a
now."             '                   paper, the contents of which were an ex-
nTe very late, for him, breakfast being act counterpart of Glenham's translation.
dispatched Glenham, was driven in a He compared then carefully.
coup to Wall street, and after aseeudiig  "tUrn! Well!' was the exclamation

I

I.

Il

I '

I


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

with which the lawyer concluded his
examination and looked up at Glenham.
"Mr. Kramp is dead1!,
"Dead! Why, I saw hin yesterday
morning," said the attorney. " Heart-
disease, eh I Take a seat."
" No sir," said Glenham, taking a seat
immediately opposite the lawyer. He then
narrated as briefly as possible the circum-
stances attending the cashier's death.
"Somewhat singular12" said Mr. Drill,
dropping the solitary glass from his eye,"
fortunate for him he met you. You say
you gave the will to Dr. Pillule?"
"1I did, but I question, little as I under-
stand the law, if the will will be of much
value, drawn as it is without witnesses,
and-"'
" Abel Kramp knew what he was about
-see 1" Rising, Mr. Drill brought from
his safe a folded document. "Here is a
will, of which the one you found was a
copy. This is the original duly signed,
sealed, attesited,.and as perfectly legal as
I could make it."t
"I am glad of it," said Glenham. "Pray
inform me who is this Mr. Rogerg-the
legatee -or rather, not so particularly
who is he; but where is he to be found
-his residence, I mean 1"1
"I will give it you presently, I have
here in this sealed package some papers
which are in the handwriting of Mr.
Kramp and which you can take with you
and peruse at your leisure. Among them
are a few letters whichv.it would be well
not to leave lying about outside of lock
and key. As I understand them, they are
not complimentary to the reputation of a
certain banker in this city.  However,
you probably will have but little interest
in their contents and can burn them up.
They are the relics of a great sorrow which
befel Mr. Kramp." As the lawyer uttered
the last sentence, a softened look came
upon his hard legal face and the gruff
voice mellowed. "A great sorrow, sir,
which he bore like a man."
At this moment the thin-faced youth
entered.
" WellI" said Ur. Drill, his face at once

regaining its usual office hardness and his
voice rising to its regular height of gruff-
ness. "Well "   -
"Mr. John Trueman wishes to see you,"
said the youth.
"Let him in." Exit the boy and im-
mediately enter Mr. John Trueman-as
non-committal of face, as nonchalant of
manner, and careless of gait as if he were
merely an animated mechanical contriv-
ance that needed winding up.
"Be seated, Mr. Trueman.".
Trueman complied with the request. As
he did so Glenham arose. -,
" Mr. Glenham," said the lawyer-
"should you desire to have an interview
in reference to this-this-matter-and I
presume it will be necessary you should,
suppose I name-the day after to-morrow
at three. Will that interfere, sir, with
any prior engagement of yours?'I
"Not at all. Here, I presumeI "
"Of course, here; I will make it -yes,
say three o'clock sharp."
Trueman was apparently absorbed in
the contents of a bulky calf-bound digest
which he had taken from the table.
"I shall be obliged to you," replied
Glenham, politely, and without more ado
passed out and was gone from their pres-,
ence.
"A fine looking man," said Trueman,
replacing the book upon the table$ " a
man of leisure--eh I"
"I know nothing of him other than that
be came here to-to facilitate the trans-
action of some business-"
*1I think I have met him before -on the
street."
"No doubt, no 'doubt," said Mr. Drill,
betraying a slight impatience in his tone.
Of all things he' detested being cross-
examined, especially by Mr. 'Trueman's
covert inuendoes, which he was sharp
enough to know were uttered only for the
purpose of drawing him out. After a
moment's pause he added-" Anything
new in reference to this burglary affair--"
"Precisely what I came- to see you
about," replied Trueman. "I've hived
my little busy bee."

"Eh.  -                 'I
4 Pound the fox's hole."
" Well I ".
" Andcan lay my finger upow his shoul-
der-at any moment."  .
",Good. Youknow, then, who he really
isP'
"Yep, as well as I know who you really
are.?-
" Then you have discovered his real
name?,"
" That depends. It isn't always certain
what the original name of a first-class,
natural, born ecoundrel is; but I think I
haye got it 11"1
"What is it?"
".St, Leon."
"One of the Saints, eh I" grinned Mr.
Drill
" Yes. Now then, having piped him to
his den, wlyat;shall we do I ",
"Lethim play awhile give him plenty,
of line., Meanwhlg,-in an hour from now
-]I will consult my clientsin reference to,
th matter an send a -message to you at
your office, and if our course of action is.
decided upon you shall have full instrue-
tion at once."    .
"Right. That is all   If he did not
commituthat'burglary, he directed it. On
his finger is one of. the rings--the coiled
serpent with, a diamond in.its open mouth
-precisely the ring described by your
client--see I "
"It'll be a dangerous serpent for him to
pet, ,
Another visitor was announcedby the
thin-faced youth.
"Mz. Slrugg."
" By-bye, said Truemau. 'If you can
college th-little bill,, do so-better sue it
at once, I think," the detective added for
the especial benefit. and diversion of the
youth's mind- who stood in the doorway.
" Verywell-good day, sir."
As he passed out, the high and mighty
representative of the blue, bloods, Mr
Shrrggenior, passed i , and .the oor of
tle private office was closed behind,tha
JllustPouindividual.
- Softlywhistling,1" I am looking for thee

thou lost one," Mr. Trueman slowly de-
scended the stairs to the street, preceded
by one of the bounding smoothLfaced
youths fi urishing a bundle of law-papers
in his hand.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
MR. cLtrITCH:tT FALLS DOWN STAIRS BY
GETTING TO HIGH.
Mn. CLUTOIT as a detective proved a
failure. Mrs. Pawridge found him after
an extended trial to be a gay deceiver.
Somehow he was unfaithful to his trust.
She discovered that he was incompetent
to detect anything except the presence
and quality of whiskey and other exhilar-
ating alcoholic compounds. So one day
she gave him a, peremptory dismissal.
Whereupon he returned'once nibre to
the shelter and permanent conifort of
" Gringo," where he might if he chosh be
independent ,and get continuously drunk
without question.
Madame GriiGgo no "more, for his wife
had given up the astsological business as
being inco patible with profit. It did
not pay.
She had removed from Carmine street
to other"ani loftier quarters.
Mi.Clutphit had tried various exped-
ents, after losing rs..Pawridge's patron-
age; whereby to earn a living, but some-
how he didn't rake in any large amount
of reward f~r his labor.
Iet was a sort 'of child of chance. He
fell into the ways of an odd jobbist, and
he beqa tqhave the appearance of a half
finished jA,'wandering about for some-
body to finish hin :iip. He began to be
generally drunk afterhours of Wrk,'and
4s ty  neighbors or iis wife never saw
him at his work they rarely beheld him in
any other (Ondition, than that of inebria-
tion.
Clutchit's present occupation' was in
the agency line, gathering orders for a
newly invented reversible tin ghirt collar
with boson attachment; warranted to
last for ever and look as good as new
when worn out.

88

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

87


88                      BETWEEN I
The Clutchits now occupied the third
floor in a tenement house in oue of the
cross streets on the east"side of the Bow-
ery. They had been there three months.'
One evening Mrs. Clutchit was in her
kitchen, kneading dough in a cracked
wooden tray.
Her calico dress sleeves were rolled up,
displaying a pair of arms gooselleshy as.
to texture, red as to color, and variegated
by dough and Bour.
Behid her a small cooking stove gave
out an intense beat,mmgled with the cri
dI' . -   .S.
odor that is.the inevitable sequence ofl
baking.      ad become angular m form,
flat breasted, and her astrological mouth
seemed to have pushed her ears back and
absorbed a portion of her upper lip. Mrs.
Clutchit was evidently fading. 6nly in'
her temper remained the vigor of youth.
Mrs. Clutchit rolled up her last batch
of dough, put it into the bread pan,
scraped the sticky bits and loose flour
from her goosey arms with her fingers,
and looked up at a two-dollar clock which
stood -amid a crowd of bottles, cups,
and broken plaster ornaments upon the
mantel-shelf above the stove.
"Nine o clock and that man not home
yet. Saturday night, too, when he knows
I'm out of money. Ugh ! the brute !"
She listened.  Evidently a familiar
sound struck her ear.
"That's him in' the lower hall. Drunk,
I'll be bound. No supper for him this
night."
She opened the door; stepped out into
the passage and stood at the head of the
stairs which were'only feebly lighted by
kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling.
"9That's Clutchit,'t she muttered.
It was Clutchit, fearfully demoralized.
Clutchit was full, bt his bottle-mouth
was uncorked and he was grumbling all
the way.
He paused at the foot of the stairs with
his foot on the lower rail !while h is body
swayed about and lurched like a water-
logged ship in a heavy sea-.
"He kin git up if he kin," said Mrs.
Clutchit, viewing the spectacle and then

THE CRUSTS.

turning back into the kitchen and'wrath-
fully banging the door shut. !
" Sheems t'me," murmured Clutohit
idiotically arguing with himself, "Sheoxis
t*me tbishish nozzer floor-wrong floor-
osser floor-lem nie see-hie-wher-nmi-
hic-eh?" then he lurched around and
braced up, against the wall, and lcered
stupidly around. "Lemme she-thought
thatsit-thishishn'tmy-hic-fleor-thish
fourth floor-damme why don't they light
gash; I wonder-hic."
' Then he swayed and'rolled and lurched
around the bannisters, and fooled' along
the n all till he had retraced his steps to
the head of the lower flight.
" Thought sho-down there't Where"'I
live. Winner wa-wat Mrs. Clutehit'll
shay-hic-t'see me coming in shoberY-.4'
stonishei."
And he stralihtened u p, then suddenlY
llmilered, clutched too short at the stair
rail, slin his foot forward,'fst'hat'
little bala'nee he had, and' yitniged head
and heels, tumbling, squelching, and
bumpimg'dowi the stairs
Doors were flung open, and the tenAnts
came rushing out.
They looked over the railing, 'saw
the dim light What and who it was, then
went back again.
" It's only that Clutchit with a load
on."
'Clutchit's drunk again."
"D-n that Clutehit."
That's what they said, and every one
of them -repeated the same to somebody
else inside.
Mrs. Clutchit went down toi the foot
of tlie stairs, where the tail of her house-
hold lAy flopping and groaning on the
door.
"There, you beast now 'git-right up,
and gitup ,stairs, if you kin."
The fall had sobeied him a little, only a
very little.
He gathered  himself up after five
minutes of scratching and clawing about
the floor and' stood proudly balanced for
about two seconds. Then he made a
fresh start, lurched head down, took a

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

sudden and unceremonious whirl, and
bounce like a 'boulder fidm a catapult
up against and opposite door.
Whang flew open the 'door, and Mr.
Clutchit pitched into the room and went
down with a squelch. Then came terrific
yells. Two old maids were in that room,
and at that precise moment.one of them
was standing close to the door, listening
to the row outside, while the other had
her ee to the keyhole.
Resur-When that door burst open one
old maid was knocked endwise up against
a waspstand* and went 4lwn with it and
a pitcher full of water all pver her, and
the  other was flattened  out, with
Clutehit's head, resting on her feet.
Didut they yell    -
Th e tenants came pouring out' into the
hals-mqn, wome4,, and children.
Clut 4t, ipk the midst of the, uproar
and screaming, hoisted himself to a sit-
ting'posture-bewildered.%
(IThere, ;Misshers- Clit I  old you
so. S'longs' htpw ,ca" ish on--hic-rbapk
yard,-give me headache- damn "
4qurer, police, rape   screoled lIhe
old maids in chorus.',
'"t's only p~lutchi . men," said one, of
the tents. "Demon old cock, didn't
wean nothing . Here, let's kerry 5im up
stairs into his own room."-
01"Yes, carry him up," said Mrs Clutch-
itr,"aud-1-411 bounce .hif for this. To
ome heme to his poor, suffering wife in
thisatateI"
rTwo men immediately lifted ClUt1it
to. 'his feet, while two or, three frowsy
womnen-began theisarieitask 'ith 'the dl~l
maids
"Shay genIlm'n,.lesh have er drink-
brapewarrer tor me-dam cats-er a--hie
--Athrow sqpeehing at em"
Come along, .you 'e chuck full now.
Yesh-stan'"e mmup-vay rorrr."'
And presently thy had' Oufift'up
stairs-scrambled him up,. and wrestld
him into the kitchen.
When they let go of him he dropped
with a grunt to the floor. The men went

out and left him alone in his glory with
his wife.
Thenshe saw that the patent tin collar
which he wore had bent up, and one of
the Bytonic corners 'had slit a gash uP-
under his chin, and the tin bosom attach-
ment had sprung out 'and was twisted 'so
that it 'looked, with the paint sciatehed
off anud a 'wet quid of tobacco flattened
against it, like a piece of'roofing.
He had not only dropped on the floor,
but into a s6lid sleep, and began to snore
then and there. Mrs. Clutchit jammed her
hands 'iMto 'his pockets , and began: a
general search. 'She drew forth an ageno
pamphlet full of pictorial tin collars of all
fashions, a lot of business cards, and his
pocketbook.  In that she found a liank
cheque for twenty dollars, -and three or
tour dollars in money. The cheque and
money she froze to at once-and put the
pocketbook back into his pocket.
There, now, lay 'there !  Ill'go to
inarket. I guess you won't wake up for
awhile, you old soaking sot. You-you
double-dyed, natural, born fool -I'll give
you drauk to--norrow  morning,- or my
nameefs iot Marar'' She tqok her bread
from the stove -oven,put on her hat and
'shawi, and,'-with basket n her arm,
sallied "outploc4ing 'Mr. Clutcjt up
alone with his. dream,, and wended her-
way to market.
" He'll sleep till L git back, and, if he-
don't he can't get out, that's one, com-
fort, anyhow. I'll just take this cheque
and.pay the butcher with it? and keep the
change.. 'See what Clutchit'll say to that
in.the morning, wben his brains git level.
I'll show him. what a desperate qringo
can do, wien her bloods up.
Poor Clutchit t
Mrs. Citchit-othqrwise j eh Madame
Gringo that was-went on her way, basket
and all, toward, the market. There she
encountered the vegetable 'lluckter, and
9tlier trading friends of 'hers. Madame
tringoalhtchit comrsed alf'hbl  with
them, aiid 'ith such 6thor'cal acquaint-
ances slie happened to meet' until in the
slow rodna of the market ehe came to the

I


90

BET WEEN THE CRUSTS.

butcher. Of all household ogres theI
butcher is the most implacable in the'
way ofextending credit or of observing
those little amenities of short change
which customers so much admire and de-
light to receive.
Her butcher was an exception-one of
those hearty, confidential individuals,
who if a piece of meat cost forty cents and
the customer had only thirty-five cents
would take it, pleasantly remarking, "All
right-never mind-you can owe me the
fivepence."
If anything yields exquisite delight to
the average market customer it isthe
financial favor of being trusted for five
cents which the butcher as. well as her-
self knows she will never pay, and 4oes
not mean to pay.
Of her butcher she purchased what meat
she required, and then tendered him the
cheque.
"I owe you four dollars, and can you
give me the balance in-in money I , It
is all Mr. Clutchit brought home with
him."
The butcher knew her. She had been a
long time customer of his, had always
been fairly honorable in her dealings,
and so, after a moment's hesitation and
inspection of the signature and cheque
generally, he complied with her request.,
The cheque was signed by Robert
Gleiham, and drawn to the order of St.
Leon.
This business being translated Mrs.
Clutchit slowly, with her heavily laden
basket, proceededhomeward. As she loft
the stall she did not observe that stand-
ing beside her during her colloquy with
the butcher was a quiet, unobservant in-
dividual who to all appearances'seemed
to be lounging ut merelyfor the pur-
pose of killing tfiue.
When she passed the cheque to the
butcher the lounger was employed in
examining a shoulder of mutton, punch-
Ing it with his fingers, and turning it over
in a desultory manner; and in doing it
seemed to be partially absorbed in some

sort of.a mental calculation as to what It
might weigh, and its probable cost.
'After Mrs. Clutchit-Grngo had dia-
appeared, the quiet individual abandoned
contemplation of the shoulder of mutton
and paid his respects to tie butcher,
"Isn't that risky   business, taking
cheques from parties-eh
"Parties!" said the butcher, good-
humoredly. "Oh! no, not'when I knok
'em. It aint women who buys meat in
dribs like that come the swindle, you
know; now that woman, I've knowed her
a couple of years. She used to be an as-
trologist, sort of fortune teller. Now she
isn't M thatline, bift she always pays. I
s'pose that cheque she got from her hus-
band, Clutchit.  He don't amount to
much, I don't think. One of thein fellows
tbat's always doing something and never
making much at it. Shiftless, slip and go
easy, Jack of all trades. It's all right as
long as she says so."
" Supposing he had offered it, ei ?"
"Well I'd have taken it all the same.
She'd fx it right if he'didn't."
i I suppose so," replied the individual,
"but you'll excuse me. I have odd ideas
about this cheque busmiess."
"One has to be careful you know," in-
terupted the butcher,  abiittiint much
difference after all. If we don't loge oie
way we will another, and a body don't
add to their loss by being civil and oblig-
Ig.- At least I never did. Now this
cheque,"f here he took it out ofhis greasy
drawer, and. held it up in his greasy
fingers. "I don't know whether it's good
or not, bint it looks good, and coming front
Mrs. Clutchit' I ve 'faith that it is good;
d'yer see I
"Certainly.  Yes.   Faith is a good
horse." As the butcher held it up the
individual merely glanced 'atIt carelessry,
but in that careless glance his eye had
caught the names upon it, the' auiouft
and the name of the bank upon which it
was dawn.
Evidently he was'satisfied.
"I think as  return I will stop, if it
isn't too late, and order that shoulder of

BETWEEN THE 'CRUSTS,

mutton," said the individual, turning I
"Any time. Saturday nights we're
open till eleven."           '
The individual slowly moved on, and
edged his way though the crowd. "One
more score against this St. Leon," he said
to himself, "and, as sure as my name is
Jack Trueman I'll find another beforeI
Monday night. Robert Glenham- well II
can find him easily enough. I think Sun-
day is a lucky day for fishing; I'll fish for
Clutchit."
At the entrance to the market he caught
sight of Mrs. Clutchit.'
"Fishing is unnecessary," he thought
as he saw her. "' Here is the fish, I'll fol-
low her, and that 'I1 save trouble.
And so he did.
To the door of the tenement house.
Then he went on, ligL iing a cigar by the'
way, and strolled up townwards.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
GATHERING UP THE THREADs.
Fpom Lawyer Drills presence and office
Glenham returned to his hotel.,
Once there'and in his rooms he broke
open the sealed package and began an
examination of its contents. There were
various papers, all of them  in Abel
Kramp's handwriting.
The largest comprised three or foui
pages of foolscap, closely written, and
composed more in the desultory, broken
form of a diary than a straightforward
statement; more as if it bad been written
from time to time.
Carefully Glenham read it, and to say
that, despite his expectation that there
would be some strange revelation in the
contents of the mysterious package so
singularly brought int ohis possession, he
was astonished, would but feebly express
his feeling.
He almost leaped from his seat.
\The expression of amazement gave way
to one of exultation. His face lighted up,
his eyes flashed with a' gleam, as of
triumph.
"At last!" he said, half aloud, "at

91

last, Jerome 'Duval, I can stand face to
face with you, and defy the chance of rec-
ognition.. With this knowledge, traced
by a hand 'now as cold and pulseless in
deith as" your 'heart is to all feeling of
compassion or honor-with this knowledge
in my possession, I no longer fear what-
ever danger may come to him who claims
the name of George Jaffray."    Again
and again Gilenham read the manuscript,
and, as at length satisfied that he thor-
ougbly understood its meaning, every
word and line of it, he folded it, with the
rest of the papers, and deposited them
securely in an inner pocket.
"God help me, poor dead wife ! Your
sorrows, your terrible death, and all the
anguish, misery, insult, which this man,
this father has brought upon us, must
soon be atoned for. The hand of fate
must be in this-no human sagacity, no
human foresight could have so surely led
me, scheme and plan as I might, to the
consummation. of my sole wish. Ah !
Abel Kramp-deformed, wronged, yet
faithful, forgiving, but never f6rgetting-
from out of his lonely grave'reaches forth
to make clear the way. All is ready. It
remains but fo 'me to strike the blow.
One breath from me and the vain, haughty
money-god will tremble like a whipped
cur, and his house of cards topple to
pieces. And Edith-"
Yes, Glenham, Edith-must she, too,
suffer?
The thought of the fair young girl, so
innocent, so trusting, made him pause.
The sister of his dead wife, should she,
too, have her future life darkened by
himI
Steeled as he was against her father,
the remembrance of Edith's gentle, con-
fiding -nattire, of her purity, for the mo-
ment calmed him.
But it was for a inoient only.
Again the spirit of bitterness came upon
him, and he almost cursed the weakness
that had threatened even foi so brief a
period to make him forget, or half repent,
the unalterable resolve to which he had
devoted his life.

I

I r


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

I,

The Pell street den, with all its horror,
arose before his mental vision, and he
was a man, with the heart of :a demon.
At times, when the recollection of all that
he had suffered from poverty and want,
and of the unrelenting cruelty, heartless-
ness with-which Jerome Puvalhad driven,
him, by one device and another, frop an
honorable position in. society, and de-
stroyed his happiness, only because he
could not separate him from the woman
he loved-is it any wonder that his pas-
sion for revenge became the implacable
master of his life ?7. That it at times ob-
literated every wholesome thought and
all the finer feelings of his nature, and
crushed out the yearnings for the calm
and quiet of a purer life, was an inevitable,
conseqyence.I
Now, with this key to Jeroie Duval's
social destruction in his grasp, he became
defiant. There was none of the terror
now that before bad bee  evoked at the
bare thought of his identity with George
Jaifray, and he could mastereill obstacles.
From out of the gloom and mists of
doubt, the spectres of the 4ead beckoned
him into the light and clearness of cer-
tainty.
As he descended the broad staircase of
the liotel, he felt that once again be could
at will stand before the world-confront
all the city-as George Jaffray.
And as for Edith Duval- again the fair
vision was before him.
" She shall be mine! - God will govern
what else 'may betide afterwards.'
T[hen came the thought of others - the
recollection of his interview with Louise
Trainer in the .House of the Echoes, his
knowledge of the fate of her brother, and
as he remembered it he half resolved, in
his exultant defiance of consequences, to
reveal the secret to her.
What harm could come to him now I
But the robbery of the dead man!
It will not be forgotten by the reader
that Jaffray left upon the body'of the vic-
tim  of the midnight ruffians his gold
watch and diamond pin, and that when
the body was discovered in the morning

:i

by the police, both watch and dianmnd
were gone, and the body stripped of its
clothing.
Of that desecration of the dead he wa'
guiltless; even he had not robbed the
dead, for when he 'took possession of the
pocket-book, money, carte de visife, and
papers, the man was still breathing_; and
when he rushed forth into the night and
and storm aind sped away, the slow ebb
and flow of the'helpless form lying in the
noisome den still gave t6ken of the pres-
ence of life.
Of this robbery he neel not inform her,
he, argued. Then Came"Close upon this
the forecast of what would be the inevi-
table sequence of his betriyal. Louise
Trainer would, in her search fdr alt the
circumstances attending the catastrophe,
discover tfie fact that her brother had
been left there to die; that tle had bdeen
plundered, murdered, his body despoiled
of everything; n4 to her question, Who
did this? 'What coukl he; George Jaffray
alias Robert Glenham, answer ? Denial
would'not answer her; for denial, with no
other evidencethan his partial confession,
would be regarded by her as an attempt
to screen .himself, and that would b'e-
worse than all.,
. While he thought of all this, while he.
was bewildering his mind with this, he
little dreamed that Mr. John 'Trueman, in
his nethodical way, was searchingfor and
gathering together the threads of a fate
which would unravel to the mourning
sister of the lost man the dread mystery,
and lay it openin all its hideousness.
Pursuant 'to. his plan, 'John Trueman
had examined a file of the Herald.
Carefully he scanned the local reports
of the accidents, inrders,'sidden deaths,
and mysterious disAppearinces recorded
in the columns of that paper day by day
through the month of March.
There' was only one report of all which
attracted his attention.
This he read and re-read.
It was in the paper dated Mai'ch 7th,
1855.
"March the seventh, eh9?" he mused.

-11;

I

CHAlElR 2XXIX.         .
GiLENHAN: VISITS T1E DUVAL MANSIN-
TiHERE WasIAO hesitvtion upon the par
*,f uval as towhatpeurse he vogl&amp;pur
'ie in his: disposition of the affairs.o
Abel Kramp..

93

.BETWEEN THE CRUSTS&amp;

" This Robert Trainor arrived here, ac-
cording to his sister's statement, on March
the fifth. Um ! On that day he or the
man who personated him visited Duval's
banking-house, Now, if he was hocussed
and knocked on the head, or made away
with in any manner,,it must have been
on .the night of, that day.. Let me see-
here is the only mysterious affair which
occurred on the night of the fifth; that
was discovered by the police on the morn-
ing of the sixth, and of course the account
,of it is here in the Herald of the -seventh.
It was. in the, afternoon papers, I s'pose,
too-the afternoon of the sixth."    ,
John Txuemian,.in order to brighten his
thoughtsand possibly quicken his judg-
ment, solaced himself with a quid.of fibe-
cut, andthen continued his consideration
of the reporters work. . " ,     ,
It was almost verbatim the.samestate-
ment, with, .perhaps, a few additional
particulars, thb reading of -which a month
after the ;occurrence had so. terribly af-
fected Jerome Daval in his sitting-room,
aid which had; brought for the first time
to, Edith Duval the knowledge . of the,
miserable death of -her' sister Mary-the
,wife of George Jaffray.
"Coroner Settem held the inquest, in
this case, ehI Well I don't see how this'
affair can concernthis Trainer business.
This is  a starvation .case in a cellar-it
isn't likely, so nevermind; I'll see Settem
in a day or two, and have a chat with
him-I may pick up 'a little useful, infor-,
iration of some sort by it."-
Coroner Settem.
It was to this official that Jerome Da-
-val was driven in ,is carriage at the In-
stance of Dr. Pillale, during which mem-
orable drive he read the copy of the will
'ot Abel Kranrp.,

The coroner's inquest was a mere mat-
ter of form; how could it! be otherwise
whin such an eminent and highly influen-
tialcitizen as Jerome Duval suggested it
to a-complaisant city- offiial so open to
A material . arguments -as Coroner Set'
tei 7, There was nothing in it--merely a
jury summoned-the verdict--,-" accidental
death," and a cheap funeral next day at
the expense of Duval anotherr lonely un-
marked grave in- the' public ground of
Greenwood cemetery..
Whatever there were of the dead casb-
ier's effects ;in . the way of books, papers,
and memoranda, with some few of the
more choice articles of vertu Mi his rooms,
Duval caused to be immediately removed
to his. own, residence; the furniture and
all else of the. contents of the room'were
conveyed to an auctioi-room, sold, and
the receiptii herefor 'duly transferred per
cheque to the keeping, of, the Christian
banker.
At the sale of these effects among other
auditors o othe voluble auctioneer, was
Madame Gringo Clutchit..
Wbat Madame ,Gringo Clutchit desired
to purchase, if, it could be obtained with
the limited sum at her immediate disposal,
was a lounge.
She bid on i lounge, and it was hers.
So to - the i Clutchit 'mansion-apart-
ments rather-the lounge, once the prop-
,rty of the cashier, was transported.
Onthe Monday afternoon following the
Saturday evening in which he had shad-
owed Mrs.: Clutchit from  the market.
Mr. John Trueman was seated ,on that
lounge awaiting the. arrival, momentarily
expected, of Mr. Clutebit.
Duval did,-not mourn, over the loss ot
I his faithful ,servitor-he would ,ot have
mourned if that seritor had been his
own brother, or even. son. But over the
loss of a few thousanfd dollars his grier
would have been profound.
The cashier's.position made vacant by
t the, death'ofKramp wasspeodily filled by
- a"1 gentlemans- son "r. anF. F.-whose
f father . banked" heavily in  Daval's
house. Duval accepted this young gen-


94                ]BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

tleman f )r two reasons --one because his
father's account in the bank was ample
security, as he imagined, for the official's
honesty; the second, because the salary
was to be nothing for the first year, to.be
increased to such amount in the second
year as the great banker might deem a fit
equivalent for services rendered.
Per contra, the young F. F-this bit-of
rich flavoring of the social upper crust-
accepted, that's the high-toned way -of
putting it, the situation under a pretense
of an earnest desire to learn the banking
business, but in reality because he was
forced to it by his father to "settle him
down " and bring him to a-realization of
the fact that there were, other and more
useful aims in life than billiards, swell
suppers, and guzzling wine.
This new cashier was no other' than
Namby Shragg, the son      of Carlton
Shrugg, heretofore referred to in this
veracious history as being a blue blood
of the most exalted type.
Young Shrugg. concealed whatever dis-
gust he may have felt at being thus cor-
nered by the "old man," or of being even
for a few hours each day a monetary ap-
prentice in the banking-house of even so
great a financier as Jerome Duval.
He made up for it after hours.
Meanwhile, Duval had placed .over this
young sprig of the avenue, in the osten-
sible capacity of instructor, but really as
a guard, one of his oldest officials-.his
paying teller, who said little, and that lit-
tle in as surly, cart, and disagreeable a
mauner as possible.
Especially did he. snub Namby Shrugg,
rather than instruct him in the routine of
his duties, for he had, upon the death of
Kramp, Indulged in the hope that he
would have been promoted, as a mark of
confidence and a reward for his long ser-
vice, to the vacancy.
Shrugg was too lofty and airy in style
for the old paying teller. But complaint
was useless. Duval never heeded the
complaints of his employees; if they
didn't like their position, they were at lib-
erty to depart at once,

At home Duval remained the imperious-
autocrat-the lord of all he surveyed,
whose right none dared dispute.
The servants moved like shadows in
his presence; below stairs, in solemn con-
clave and with bated breath, they dis-
cussed his absolute tyranny to their hearts'
content, but with no hint at rebeUion.
Their places were too good for that;
besides, his sternness was in a measure
compensated for by the gentleness and
kindness of Edith and her mother, who
since the revelation of the Poll street hor-
ror had clung together seemingly with no
other interest or feeling in common with
the father and husband than that which
involved the observance of the ordinary
duties of the household. They gave Je-
rome Duval their duty-all that might
have been of affection orlove or genuine
respect had been crushed out by the re-
membrance of his past cruelty and the
inhuman treatment the deAd sister, his
daughter, had received at his hands. He
bad compelled Edith's mother to silence,
but he had crushedher heart in doing it.
Glenham resolved to beard the lion in
his den, for ,with such a weapon as the
written statement left him by the cashier,
there could be but little doubt, arguedhe,
of the result.
Heretofore, under various pretexts, he
had declined invitations from Edith to visit
the Duval palace-pretexts-the very fem-
inineness of which he was heartily asham-
ed. He had, too, despite, his ne w-found
courage in thus daring.the presence of the
man he hated, a vague presentiment that
the struggle was approaching the cloge-
that this act in the-drama of his life was
soon to be ended.
It was near eight o'clock in the evening
when he alighted from his carriage in front
of the banker's -residence and ascended
the broad stone steps, over which frowned
the heavy carved arch of the entrance.
How well he renietnbered it! How, in
the years gone by, he had so often entered
there fall of hope, pride, and with before
him a future seemingly cloudless. And
now !-

The thought of all he had suffered since
then, ?tnd of the man who caused it, caine
upon him, and for the instant he felt like
strangling the banker as he would a dog.
The windows of the drawing-room above
and of the reception-roon below were
lighted.
Eviden bly.visitors were present.
He paused a moment. In that moment,.
by an effort, he recovered his usual appar-
ent serenity.
His summons was answered by one of
the servants, one who, in the long ago,
had often admitted him.
He handed his card to the servant.,
"Miss Edith?" said the functionary.
" Step into the reception-room,'sir, I will
see,"
Even the reception-room, save the new
frescoing of the walls and one or two ad-
ditional paintings, was unchanged in ap-
pearance.
Presently the servant returned. "Miss
Edith Diival-is in." -, -.
I And theservant, with all due ceremony,
conducted Glenham up the' great stair-
case to the, drawing-room, announced
"Mr. Robert Glenham," and'retired.
Contrary to his anticipation; there were
no visitors; only, neawone of the crimson-
draped windows, one person.
Edith.
As -the servant announced his name and
retired, closing the doof After him, she
arose from her seat-and advanced, a plea-
sant sile lighting up her face, toward
Glenham.
" At last, Mr. Glenham," she said " you
have-"
"Honored myself by keeping one of m3
.Innumerable promises to call. I can onl
hope thatmy punctuality in this instanc
will be accepted as a palliation of my de
linquency in the:past."
. " Thank you," she said, "for the inter
ruption.  Now then, sir knight of th
sedate countenance, suppose you do pen
ance by dropping ceremony and playin
the part of oa ,of the most constant o
'visitors-for 'this oedasioi only-as th
playbills have it."

Glenham seated himself near her.
The man of the world in her presence
began to forget his purpose upon her
father.  --
The  conversation thus beginning in
pleasant raillery soon passed into another
channel, and almost before either were
aware of it, they began to speak . in
lower tones; and, at last, he drawing his
seat nearer her, and taking her hand in
his, the secret was revealed.
" Edith," he said, and his voice, in spite
of himself, trembled. "Edith, let us unt-
derstand one another better. I mean, let
us understand by utterance what at least
I have these many weeks thought of-
hoped for-- and whether you have thought
of it or not, it is better ,e should speak
frankly, and so end this suspense. Edith,
by every token and act by which an hon.
orable man :can make known, without
speakinghis thought, I have endeavoredto
convey to you an expression of my feel-
ings. I do not think you can have failed
to comprehend it."
"Mr. Glenham-"
' "Please hear me out, and then-and
then I will be the listener." A silence en-
sued, then Glenham abruptly, but in a tone
of gentleness, said: "Edith, I love you.
It is useless to annoy you in this with
the wild rhapsody which you find in the
utterance of the' heroes of sentimental
novels. In simple words which 'express
the yearnings of my heart, I only say,
Edith, I love you, and ask in return no-
thing new save the frank ansWer which ia
to decide my fate. Your assent will make
me a happier man, and bring sunshine
y upon a lonel', clouded life; a refusal will
y simply leave me to go on in my appointed
e path, 'through its loneliness, its gloom,
- with what courage and fortitude the heart
may have which resolutely strives to bear
its grief in silence."
oe The girt, while he spoke, her hand still
- resting in his, had not raised her eyes; she
g sat as passive and motionless as one in a
)f trance.
e    Slowly she raised her hand,-and in the
blush which mantled her fair cheek and the

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.             95


96               BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

softened expression of her eyes, as they
met his earnest look, he read his answer
before she uttered it.
" Robert-.Mr. Glenham-I-. There,
you have my hand in yours. You have my
love, and-"
"Say no more," exclaimed Glenham,
". The outspoken honest trust and confi-
deuce of a love like yours are like a gleam
of Paradise in this world. Once more the
sun shines, the clouds have passed, and
let us hope that our lives in the future
may be as calm and peaceful-"
The door opened, and the servant en-
tered.
" Miss Edith, your father wishes to know
if you are engaged "
As she replied, she gave Glenham. an
arch smile-No-yes-Does he wish me
to come up to himi7"      ,       .t
" No, Miss Edith; he tolame to say that
:if you weren't.engaged, he'd come here."
"Tell him I am not engaged."-
"Except to me," whispered Glenham to
her as the servant disappeared..
A blush and a soft pressure of the hand,
was her only reply.
Then she arose and seated herself at the
piano.                         ..-
"Mr. Glenham-Robert, I mean-now,
do you remember 'the air Gazzaniga 'was
singing when you came into our ,box at
the opera 11   ,1,#
'In 'ITraiata'I     .
"Yes, to be ure. Come now, let me see
if your memory-     .        .
" You mut remember," he replied, as
standing at the corner, of the piano, he
rested his band upon it, '1you must re-
member that then you filled my tko,0ghts,
and it was qnly the music of your
voice-'.-
" Now,Robert," she Interrupted, hold-
ing up her finger asif in playful warning,
-" you are verging upon the province of
4 the heroes of -sentimenual novels,' .for
that's just what' they always say to their
.ady-loves- "
Again the door opened, and Jerqme Dn-
val, In gowni and slippers, with a velvet
-smokiag cap upon his bead,.came in.-

The dreAded moment had arrived.
Father#" said Edith, rAng and turn-
ing toward him.
" I thought yomwere not engaged, I see
you have a visitor,"' said Duval.
, " Rob-Mr. Glenham, this ia my fath-
er."
Not a muscle, not a nervo of Glenham's
face quivered as with a smile he confront-
ed. the banker,-aid extended his hands
"Mr. Jerome Duval, I am happy in
making your acquaintances"
Duval took the proffered hand and
bowed.
"I know that in-extending my hand
upon introduction as a visitorI may have
transcended the observance of d'awing-
room etiquette, Mr. Duval, but it is aous-.
tom in which I frankly own I often forget
ihyself."
Duval gave him as,he uttered this apol-
ogy the benefit of a searching look, a look
whicb he remembered long after.
"Your social position, Mr. Glenhani, of
which from, report 12 am well aware, and,
acquaintance with my daughter, of which
I believe I was not apprised of,"-here he
gave.Edith aismile-" are ample explana-
tion of your adherence. to a custom which
has in it ao much ,ofearnest and fraulk-
ness."
With which somewhat stilted reply the
great banker again bowed.
"This is Mr. Glenhain's first call, fath-
er," said Edith, "and I am glad .it has
brough you and him together.  She was
going to say more, but somehow, she brqke
down.
She was not equal to the occasion, for
her lips were not uttering her thoughts.
Glenbam sawthat the, chance of further
conversatitin aloie with his new found
love was gone forthat day) so he plead-
ed to the banker of thisbeing his first vis-
it-..-a mereI formal call,' and' other vague
additionAl excuses (or withdrAial' .''
- Edith, however, to usea mitary phrase,
"came to the front." ,She invented.
And her invention'Vas this':-
,  FatherpMr; Glenhain has been kind
enough to offer us hi ,box:at Willooks

I

BETWEEN T
for to-morrow evening, will you accom-
Panys. ...
Therelwas a surprised look upon Glen-
ham's fae at this bit %f strategy., Invit-
ig herself forsoothj, And her. father,
too!.
He merely bowed, however.   .
'"WIl, Edith, aayou have taken upon
yourself tp anticipate a request Mr. Glen-
ham mayhave preferred to ngage hiMsel
-I must decline, as Ilhave ;sn epgage-,
Ment to-morrow ev,_nng.. But that need
not prevent you from going. ,,ouyoung,
ladies always enjoy such things better
than we, f the elder age."
"I shguddbe lappy:tq havey97u with
us," adde4 Glenbau4, uttering in this re-
9 . - I"
mark about aisextensive a l*e as y human
beingicovld sugar-coat!with politeness ,
am  sorry,,". .the ba15er replitgd
Some other tixe, perhaps, I 'uayhave
the pleasure. XeanrwIled trust  will 
favor us with your presence more fre.-
quently.                 ,,    ,
Tels pech was uttered witttbefrigid
eeremonios- dignity of a diplomatIc' e-
Ception.     t'I
After sorie further, ob~ssfvapces of tlye
etiquette of Dawingtreeimep9aus and
leavetaliing, .lenhai epar%,
When, be had 'gonep puyyl- said ,9
Xdith:"Edith,14ow longhave you known
Mr. Glenham I'  ..
"Some months siNge I wAis introduced
to hii t the opera a."
-i a verywealthy maU  I haVe
heard.*
"And .  gentleman,   a44ed   dith
quilcky,                       I
ps. Wealthis-the creator of gen.
tiity.'h
"Not abweys; theft aryxceptions.".
"'Whic arm        gya qofew yk  zaot c 9
considered. Bels a very fine-looking waA
E44,b khy OV     rgebeer4ut
the        eie
fancy I have somewhere in ptimet
Psaiw! Its toner tIe  an   o   .#er-
anee, something, I can not describe it, but

HE CRUSTS.                         97
It geunds tA me like' a voice whic, was,
once very familiar. It reminds ,me, of
'orp one, apd who-who-Well, lot it go
it is probably fancy, or an accidental(rew
semblnce. Perhaps, when I meet him
again and lear hin- speak I mny bqablq
to, recall it. Now, F ith, I have some.
thing to tell yoyu
CHAPTER XL.
Whi  JEOM   DIR~ WANrEn TQSWt
TO HIS DAUGHTER.
DUv11 seated himself in an easy chair,
facing Edith, whd had resumed her seat
at the p4io.
 Edit you are acquainted with the
Siiruggs l"
" i iit t f~eoccasionail not oft n."
Mr. Nax   ,SIj  r uf  have, and-"
"Ana-*w    , finish the sentence, dith
*-and what    -
Oh1 y1g;1. Was only About to say
that I  ougl In very pOmiggnplace."
"Ah   said Duval; "but likea ch
picture in a costlyframe, his commonplace
attributes are not seen in the ~p 4l#byich
r p;t}in of 14g fhga     ornj"
rpriid and still not comprehend)A  th
fuuaseof his   reavimg; "' why.should
Care for his money I
"Not for his moneyt--but, really, Edith,
'Well ~4pi r.t ".1 §P e        eg~iO~l.
ug, ye  p i  a   qg pgcreepingov gr her
'  kigpff aij4     whpt ailngo
At    #QP  ; q, hes ag yr o  f s gxnal  u 4 of ,
tolpye        ncapngg Cen  ,ppopiite4 we4
pingJAth  A
APM1g k thdprfky TO O r i e b,
amigygers9rp ,' serpie# in a sort of dAy


98                BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS..,

"Who I Why, suppose I name you as the
btide and-and Mr. Namby Shrugg as the
groom, eh 1"1
" Why, father, what has come upoii
you-I you certainly can not be in earnest!
I 'have never spoken a dozen words to
this Mr. Shrugg; nor have I any idea that
he ever thought-of me. Certainly, if he
has, he has never shown it. You surely
father, can not mean it."
" Edith, I meau all things for your be-
nefit. His fortune within few months
added to yours by marriage woul4 pl4e
you-"
"In what, father 11" she exclaimed, with
a' sudden show of temper. "nl you
mean-- ohno!Iyou do not'surely mean
this. Why have you not spoken of it be-
fore I Father, I am young. I do not even
know this man. He may be amiable,
good, everything in the calendar, but
there are other girls; wealthy and with
anl requisites to niake him happy. I know
nothing-ab6ut him."
"Do not be excited, Edith I it is only
a proposition of mine, a suggestion ; if-",
"And does he know nothing of it "'
said Edith.
"Nothing as yet. Only-"
"'Who else I
"Only his father,. whom you'know is of
our set and one of my friends. M itches
made in this way often prove the hMppiest.
Iii France-"
"Only.you and Mr. Shrugg, his father,
know of itI"
that is all, iEdith."
"Then keep the secret between your-
selves Father, in everything* ever since
that -terible disclosure betweehf 'you
and mother-ever since then, with'"a 'full
knowledge' of my podo sisterMaryXifate,
and of'what caused itiLE1have st-ein'in
all things to b6 four "obedieiti, living
daughter; I have tied to shdweyou thiat
I have, young as I am, thrust themehiiyj
of that bitter revelatibh -'sideiaaekled
book which mus   ri4r- o iened  i I
can not forget that Iam mfitrftcaal yit
of mjown e       'f ty o~ n'felg, if
my ownhappinee, a"d I will iot1itoftlt

to sacrifice myself, even though the hus-
band you proposes for me should be a
Prince of England. Were I thrown upon
the world to-moirow --young as 1 Am,
weak, seemingly helpless girl, deprived
of all the'luxitries and grandeur which,
your affection has placed around me by
this refusal, I would willingly, cheerfully,
and earnestly go out into 'the world'and
seek to earh the means of support. Others
have done it before me; what woman has
done, woman can do again." As she ut-
tered this, she had come- to her father's
side, and'throwing hei arms about him,
cried like hild.
"There, there, Edith, don't be foolish;
I will not do anything to ntAe ryou un-
happy. Only-well, we will see. Some
other time we'll talk of this; you know I
think only of your' happiness." He loos-
ened herlarms from 'aroud -him, and ris-
Mg took botl hel, hands in his.
Through her tees she 146ked up into.
his-face. -  -
It seemed to have an expression ofkind-'
ness, of lbre, bit if Was oly 'a' iMaSk
which'eonceed themnalterable haidiesa
of his nature.
The prayer's land ebtreittied of all the
angels would not: have nioved him one
}air's breadth from h'hatever determina-
tion he might make. A' imiplacable as
destiny, 'yet the unteleniting spirt hid its
foulness by that iask-
'She did notiread him.' To her the niaask
of pitying tenderness was impeii~trable.
Then h diogyed'hdr hands'And they fll
1stlessly by her side.
"There, Il leave ybn  By anid ly ioine
to me-to-morrow, next day, or the day
after, and-seme other tihne we'll alk or1
his. Some other time," he repeated;' and.
then dralng her' to hini hke leftlis
upof her brdW and'jdesed wayediii 'tle
Se fell back, like one in atiakanto
theeisyhaiatwhichd he hadjn t)vaehtea.
Ihf s Htle "hilshe- ardtihd fidralf:
m  he beVildermhitAnt')WhiAI vho
hadflei    '      ' L
"MMa'y, that ,iau-IP"'

e very thought made her cower as it
at the touch of death.'
"  Mother Idid not ask hIlm if &amp;the knew
of this. No, no, she is the last one he'
would consult. I'll see her, and, yes-
Robert, he 's iny 'Robert iow-mine ! If
he, dear soul, knew how my heart goes out
to him, and has from the flirt insensibly
grew to love him! Thank heaven, to
him at least when all else fails me I can'
turn!' An hour ago I was but a dreaming
girl; now, with my father's words 'still
ranging like jangling bells out of tune in
my ears, I am a woman. 'Let come'what
will, my Robert Will be my shield."
The-doot opened -and her -mother en-
tered. -
CHAPTER XLI-
TE DANCEE OF Mn TRUsEu4N".
MR.1JoHN_'TRUEMAN hadihis ,interview
with Mr. 'Clutchit.  ie found that indi-
vidual accidentally soberlandf therefore
nuitsually miserable 'and depressed, in'
mind:'.'
M;. Truetnan,with his ukual outwird
showtof an entire dhek: of interest iiithe
aiswere Mi. Clutchitrnade toshis'randoin
questions concerning the cheque, discover-
ed enough to convince him that whatever
Clutebit might be drunk, Clutchit sober'
would be an admirablewitness in aiding
and abetting the conviction of St." Leon
wie he sloul'd be brought' beforee the
honoiable cotirt,'and'the' equally' hdnor'.
abIebuit tiekhapstonsideiably more' tP'1
WMrjtClukehit had received the eheq'
from. the  roprietor of the ntlVy-inveh'tsd
"Iatebnt' reveil 'tin"-shhri-ollar 'with
bosomi attachment, ' aind -i getlenia
of- the n'ame'of St,. Leni'hhd ieiik i  s
enbe iten the cheqde-to his "erfipidyefy
and received therefor some Inioiey-liew
mtidh h6e oudhtll.11
Mr. Clutchit also had seen"St. Leifn
often there 1il theffiee afidi'k s#etned'to
bJf'ri*felorfaequ'aintncof1 Vhe'to a
said fipriedt'_f 'th4 ti c611AAi  id'
b~s~nlL:     fJ.  "

Tnat was precisely the "'intopnation
Trueman wanted, 'and after inviting Mr.
Clutchit out to 4,se a man "aid treating
him to a  double-headed nerve killer"-
bourbon 'straight, he left hin.'
"I've got enough against this St. teon
to send him up for a dozen years whete
bogus cheques'and forgery are unknown,"
and Trueman chuckled qiiitly, visited
Mr. Drill, and from 'thence pioebeded to
the coroner's office, where he fbund Mr.
Settem deeply engaged in arguing a polit-
ical' question with a short, stout, knobby.
nosed man.
For a brief- time 'he joined in and be-
came as earnest and enthusiastic as-if he'
had been born a politician. He succeeded
in exasperating the knobby-nosed patriot
to such an e'xtent'that he grasped his hat,
put it on with a reckless disregard of con-
sequences, and'took hitself off.'
Then Mr. John Trueman began to make
himself..interesting to the coroneiupon
quite anothipr ,subject.
Coroner S9tteqm wag ,oquacions. Next
to hearing of an appaIag'acijdent fqr-
nishing him with a. hundrq4 sihjects for
special inqest, he loy4 : tal4ng. The
sound of his own voice was sweet mysie
to him ; and, like v :rept nmay other
dminegt conversation    u  n general
subjectsQ more 1    ai ' ed tho ,less he
said
As a corojierlwe was xpeditiqus-could
iake in a jury, view the remains) have an
autopsy put through, and settle t' etdiet
w tJ about the same speed that p gry
paupereAn swallow a cheap dinner.
'Treman knew his weakness, and elic-
tid, after a long and exhaustive 0son
u  fik"# cross-questioning, a sees. Q
facts eoneerning the "case in Pell street,"
of which thifkfs ummary of the mot im'-
yortant.
'That the landlord from whom the place
was rented poitively identified -the body
f the woman to be"that of the wife of
t  hid "14  f    l      "   "~~l e


100               BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

That upon: oneof the fingers of the dead
man Coroner Settem foun, a medallion
ring, much w9rn,the setting of which was a
cameo tablet, with the letter Tb in relief.
That apon a close search of the premises
he found twotorn portions of an old letter.
That was all.
-These, souvenirs of the !"case" Coroner
SBttem had marked, and put away with
hundred of other sad mmnontoes of his,
oulcial duties.
.Detective John:Trueman couldsee them,
certainly. Couldifhechose, have posses-
sion of them for a few days, to examine at
his leisureI To b6 sure, heicould6 What
wouldinot Coroner Settemido to oblige so
adirablerandi appreciative a listener as
Johei Trueman?     .
Traeman, carefully taking these.'evi--
dezees of'the corquer's work,.and searing.
them in his.poelmt, wended-his way to his
own private lodgings; wherehe gave them
a thesoiighand carMful examination.
The ring underwent is scrutiny first.
Then the fragments of the letter, with
Its seartely-legible writing-
Thin he-at onde-copid.
It bore the- dAteI "New -York, Dec.,
As he received tifetii, the pieces wee
something In th]A wis, evidently being
portions of a sheet of common note-paper :
NZw Your. fDe. 1 185

DmAli, X.)Au MOTnwu:
I wrltqya,la -
do note-whptevr f!0
tari from me fot
dying. Ndf -o
in as gam
basement-
Writing tis-
watr aM
and 1-1
forgiven*

e
sar
uat
r morels,
work en5
-  wetohe
hadiade*       adto.
rtof go e10..
on hope for
ter-help

urnaus
)fr J
"Here's a pu=ssls,4d not eh Pf a ona=
eartifth s tog.  T4r044, 0, "It 'aWont
taka      alyg        N ltpthqhang
part&amp; of this letter.f .espar thewnI-tIMAY,bel!

of no use. . But, then, here's a prize, ,his
ring., The letter T, eht"
His -face brightened up as if a flood of
sunshine encompassed it,
"I have it--Trainor-yes, TIRAioN I
I've got the -plue at last., Yet -why not,
stand for some other nanyeI T-T-T."
Trueman puzzled himself over it until,
his brain almost beepme gi4dy.
'" By GQeorgo II'll takes it for Trainor at..
a veUture.- If I trace this out.it-'11 be the
bigggstjob of my life. If this ring is his,
and he hgd woxn it long,: she, his sister,
will know it. I'll question her about it.,
first. These women rush, at conclusions,:
amazing quick-sometimes tooquick, and
spoil everything. If-if this was his ring, -
then George Jaffray lives, and I11 find
him, and he and I'llsettle.a little business
together, or my name 's not John True.
man ! There's'a deeper mystery as to the
murder, but Ill clear it up when--I get
sight of this man1 if' 4 ever do, who per-
sonated Robert-Trainor -at-Duvals,batnk.
Either he or thetenant of that basement
did it. I think-Pm-on-the-trail." So 
pondering and holdifgiargument and high
council with hiself,- John-.Truemanwas
buildingbatter thanibe knew shArp and-
sagawous as-herthoughit himself.-

A

CHAPpE1 -LL.
W       E WHIRlWIfD. O'.k PANIO-DI.D
WH4 E Yrpnapiis igathering t'g(stkem
the thred ,ofhiiltIowbilOeBG1Ihamkivm
rejoicing over his new-gained treaajrdi,
the daughter of .thl hWnkor; While !Dnvtl
is stillso 89nmilg and piliog-ta4 inceo*@
thejwealth and extent oflhis influene-ad
repstationas the mllioai kaer,thee
cauieaup; eleudsapeahw-feinsacih .-
son...dark, #onnus,-ead brigingfwitheit-e
a terrible~tqin. -
A sort of financial eopyul#iWop others
wise apanie-       -
Wallagret sin aumpl'oa&amp;       i.
Then gypitt 'eng-ewnwank~ GiPRie4p
Gnd4 TMk Iailway sqheme' wi a
Arctic extension, in which all the naeb#o, r

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.                            101
Wall street, audiall sorts of financiers9 and  "the street? "dwarfed all other topics.
hundreds ,of well-to-do tradesmen, and Roporters were rushing here and there
peoplewho were not tradesmen,'invested like a Scattered'1herd; of starving wolves
up to the last penny of their ,means and in searih of food.
which had given such promise of paying  From the low caste ,curbstone brokers,
enormous, dividends, had:cllapsed.   who with i their hands in their pockets
The stOck had reached an enormous hovered ,aboQut the Exchange, not unlike
premium. Everybody -heldisharesi      a convqcation of carrion crows scentiug
Suddenly, likethe-falling bfia thunder- carrion in the air, to the +awfully mysteri-
bolt, came the : crash. Down ,went ithe ous and solemnly pompous, high and
magnificentIfabric, down to an infinitesi- mighty oflicials of banks,. these' news-
mal.fraction of-less; than nothing.   -paper wolves prowled back and forth
Up went the bawl of despair fromthou.- gathering such bits of minor gossip and
sands--howis'of despair, curses,and male- shreds of fact as wgre dropped in 'their
dictions of every sortband variety.  .  earning or they could by the exertion of
SIt swept awqy the lesser lights iof Wall their unlimited impudence coax, or force
street as if they had beenblown out by a from their victims concerning the failure
whirlwind. of Jerome Duval.
Swept them away I                     Panic! Why there had been-scores of
Yes; for how could they brave the storm  panics greater seemingly than this, and
when two or three, of ithe great houses which had swept through the country like
closed their doors, and were great no a simoon, and Jerome Duval had never
longer?                               winced , The very suspicion that it was
The Frogtown and Greenland Railway,1 possible for the great millionaire to go
with Arctic extension, which was, _as down in any financial convulsion would
everybody thought, being commenced, have been scouted.
and of which two full miles of track had  Yet here, when the world regarded his
alreAdy been laid, the first rail being put name as safe as the guarantee of govern-
down with great pomp and ceremony by' meit stock, and when through long years
the president, assisted by two hundred  of sueessfi4 monetary and stock opera-
other officials, congressmen and moguls tions, gigantic in'their conception and
of Wall street, the whole winding up with  marvelous in .their results, he had thus
a grand banquet and,general carouse, hadl reached an eminence, as all thought, far
vanishd into thin air.               above the reach of the storms--even here
Gone!                               the magnificent and apparently colossal
And .Jerome Duval, with one foot at- fortune in three 'short days-yes, even in
ready upon the highest step of financial one day, like dead sea fruit,'turned to
greatness, whose, resources were. thought ashes.
to be inexhaustible, the golden idol of so-  The- bubble was pricked.
ciety-Jerome Duval fell.                Jerome Tttval, the man of millions in
Like a house built of cards, his great fthe morning, at night was the man to
house toppled, crumbled, and with it went- whomh in all the great money mart there
to wreck and ruin the fortunes of'hun- were none so poor As to do reverence
dreds.                                  The nriighty genius of finance, whose
All in- three.days the work of years suerior judgment cabinet dflicias werO
came to naught. wont -to consultland into whose keeping
Astute afrd shrewd as he was, not even! the government 'treasury poured  its
he for a moinent bad dreamed of this phoicegt treasures, was hurled from 1ifI
tremendous-collapse.                  high. place,and-instead of pity for his fall,
The news of the fall,'the sud'den an'd he receivedd 1 only curses -and econdei.na-
nexpectd failure of the great house f 'tion.


BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

To say that to Duval the crash was en-
tirely unexpected would be wrong.
But he thought he had so hedged him-i
self about with collateral resources which,
however great the run upon' his house
might be, would bridge him over in safe-
ty. The Great Frogtown and Greenland
Grand Trunk Railroad with the Arctic
extension was to have been the crowning
glory of his life; he was its life, its
sponsor, and he indorsed his faith in it by
every means in his power. He issued
circulars describing the immense wealth
in the corporation and the enormous divi-
dends the road would pay; lithographs
and chromos were scattered throughout
the length and breadth of the land, giving
alluring views of the grand scenery along
the line of the road, and the stock shares
were printed upon the finest of bank note
paper, in the most elaborate style of the
steel engraver's art.
By this widespread system of adver-
tising by the easy subornation of half a
dozen government organs and daily jour-
nals, by distributing shares of the stock
among congressmen and other official pat-
riots whose services or influeince might be
or was useful, and by his own influence
on 'Change, the quotations of the Frog-
town and G. G. T. R. R. had gone up so
that in the popular view to hold a share
was equal to having possession of that
much gold.
Besides, was not Jerome Duval its
sponsor?. So everybody, widows, work-
ing men, tradesmen, and all classes invest-
ed their savings in this famous stock.
Then, too, to be a depositor in the great
banking house of Jerome Duval was to
be accounted safe and in .A 1 standing.
Merchants,   lesser  bankers,   brokers,
financiers, manufacturers, and commercial
men and professional men of every degree
considered it an especial privilege to de-
posit and hold account in his bank.
"So when the crash came, when through an.oversight
of thle groat banker, and in the first mad excitement of
the hour, some of the heaviest depositors, In order to
save their credit and meet outstanding obligations,
crushed in and withdrew their deposits to the last cent;
when thus crippled, and with no tme to meet the crisis

by a sale of therF. and G. G. T. .. stoek before it, to
his dismay, 'o sundenly dropped to one quarter of its
nominal value-what else could he do but, like a hunted
stag at bay, face destruction as best he ingsht i
Thus was 'his failure accounted for by
the daily papers.- The doors were -closed,
and in the midst of the ruin and wrecks
around him he stood up-enly a man-
with none so poor as to do him reverence.
From his closed banking house, he
was driven slowly to his home in his
carriage-a monarch of the monetary
world no longer. All the wealth he had
garnered would not suffice to save him.
He had fallen with his ladder, and the
country was ringing with the news.
As he bad made his bed so he must lie.
' There was yet, though he little dreamed
it, another and greater blow impending.
This financial ruin was only the-shadow
of the coming Nemesis.
Glenham-and Glenham's joy over the
banker's downfall was tinged by no touch
of satiety.
He -was resolved 'to have the full
measure of his revenge after he had mar-
ried Edith.
Yet he was sorry-he had a regret con-
corning her father's financial wreck, and
that was that he could not have stricken
him down in the midst of his wealth, and
when surrounded, by all the pomps and
vanities and splendor with which he had
exalted himself. For with the precious
document which he held in the handwrit-
ing of Abel Kramp, he himself 'could
have toppled over the huge fabric of the
banker's fortune.
As Glenham laid aside the last of the
morning papers he had been reading con-
taining the latest disclosures and the
very latest reports of the lesser failures
brought about by the toppling of their
great idol, he drew from his pocket the
"1 document."'
That was the name he had given it.
It was, rather, a revelation.
"Useless now, " he said, as he glanced
over it;  useless now-only as an evi-
dence which I can yet show to Duval to
prove that I know the real cause of his

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

&amp;DAncial downfall. I-wonder if he will,
save anything from the -'wreck  I Save II
how can he.? All must go. The clamor-
ous crowd of creditora,will not rest untilI
he is stripped of every, vestige of U.is
wealth-every dollar will have to be yield-
ed up to satisfy the Moloch of the law.
And while he grovels in abasement, and
is dragged down by unrelenting fate to
poverty-I, whom he expelled from his
presence; I, whom, with ,all the devilish
trickery and devices his wealth could
furnish, he drove step by step to degrada-
tion, can revel in luxury; aye! and bring
him cringing to my doors for relief. Ah
after all this whirligig time rights all
things at last., I will see Edith. She is
fast as love can bind her. His pride, for-
tune, power ,swept away-it remains for
me to crown the ruin by taking from him
his sole . remaining treasure--.his only
child. It will be consoling for him to
learn that she Is the wife of his dead
daughter's husband." .
While Glenham thus gloated over the
retribution that had fallen upon his ene-
my there was fast' and surely follow-
ing him a revelation which boded him a
fate he might have avoided,,had he con-
sidered his own safety rather than made
-his mind the mere nurse to a spirit of re-
venge.
CHAPTER XLII.
CLOSING IN.
IN addition to the torn letter, the me-
dallion ring, the narrative of the coroner
concerning the inquest in Pel street, and
his surmise as to the true ownership or
the riug. John Trueman suddenly re-
membered the note which Miss Trainor
had addressed him concerning the ticket
in the Havana lottery.
"By John Rogers !" said the detective,
"I had almost forgotten that. There may
be nothingin it-and yet-prizes are not
-so often drawn. Let me see if he had the
ticket in his pocket at the time he was
made, away with the, robbers who went
through him-if it did come up a prize,

103

would have drawn the prize here in
town. Those tickets are, good anywhere;
any dealer in that sort of . thing-any
broker will cash them. It's worth looking
after."
Mr. John Trueman at once resolved -as
he expressed it "for a flyer "-to inquire
into this little matter, so without much
delay proceeded to make himself visible
in the offices of divers of the brokers in
Wall street, who advertised somewhat ex-
tensively these schemes of chance.
Two or three of the brokers hadn't sold
a prize or cashed one within two years-
this they -told him as an official-in confi-
dence. At length he- entered the last
office in which he considered it likely the
holder of the ticket would have gone.
When. Trueman entered, there was the
elaborately dressed clerk, with his hair
parted in the middle, and his blonde
moustache as marvelously waxed and
pointed as when Glenhama had surprised
him undergoing the pleasant labor of
scraping his finger nails with the in-
finitesimal pen-knife. He lifted and drop-
ped his eyelids at the entrance of True-
nan as lazilyas before,
The huge and, fancifully painted safe,
the long desk covered with papers, the
polished counter were all there. As True-
man came in, instead of the clerk being
oblged to undergo the painful operation
of conversing upon business matters, the
little short-bodied, bustling broker him-
self came up.
"Ah-anything in tickets" ,said the
broker.
Yes," leisurely replied Trueman. "I
don't know that I wish'to invest just now
-but-yes-perhaps I may. Have you
sold any big hits lately?"
' Um    In what lottery - Kaintuck,
Delaware, or the er--ah--Havana I
" Well-say' the Havana," remarked
Truemaan, "that seems to show up the
heaviest in hits-eh'I"
" Ah--let me see'- yes -no-no, sir.
The sale has been very light lately of
Havanais Kentuck's played mostly."
" I s'pose you have-you do sell a prize

102


104               BET WEEN THE CRUSTS.

in the Havapa now and then. What's the
biggest you ever sold -do you remember
Perhaps the numbers that drew them-may
be good agaii."
The broker 'paused. Then he tapped
his forehead with his finger, looked at the,
clerk who lifted his eyelids .and looked
out through the front window at a pass
ing wompn, and then wearily dropped his
eyelids. -
' Now I remember. Oh yes. I know.
The biggest prize I have sold sice i
moved in here was-no I didn't sell it
either. I'll' tell you how it was, wait a
moment" The little man turned around
and thrusting his hand into the gigantic
safe drew forth a large book, laid it upon
the counter and opened it.
" Now then; 'let me see. November,
December-no-ah-here it is in March.
Yes, March is the month. 11ere's the en-
try. On the teuth of March. Ticket
numbered 1939  One hundred thousand
dollais. First advance, five +housand dol-
lars by cheque; .March the thirtieth paid
balance, ninety-fiye thousand dollars, less
five per cent. discount. Now then," ad-
ded tie little man looking up.  "The
party who presented this ticket said he
bought it in London; thit he had ergot-
ten all about it until the day he came in
here. He seemed excited."
"Yes," said the clerk lifting his eyelids
and glancing at .Trueman, "he spoke so
quickly and so loud that he made me jab
my peiilife into my finger."
Trueman smiled. He began to make a
show of beinginterested, which encouraged
the broker to think he Vnight have a cus-
tomer before him.
"tWould you know him if you saw him
again?"
"Certainly," replied the broker, "be-
sidos lI pow his name."  '
"Ah!" . snid Trueman, inquiringly.
" Iferwas an Englishman, I s'poseI"
"No, American; ft'ely dressed, gentle.
raply, gad all" that. Looked like a man
,of means. I gon't know that I've seen
him since. I took his name, I always do
tl4t. At least the name he gave.me as

his own. It might have been a false one,
thoUtgh. Here it is."
"What is itt"
"Robert Glenham, of New Orleans."
Trueman betrayed' no surprise.. That
wasn t his style.
'Robert Glenham. And the, chequea
you-gave him; were theypayable, to hi-s
order ?..
"To his order, certainly."
"He was a lucky man.    Ud like to
make a hit like that'myself. When is the
next drawing?" '
"On the-fifteenth."
"Have you -that number in your
packages--1939?"
" I'll see; if I haven't it's likely I can get
it for you," and the, little broker once
more thrust his arm into the big safe.
"You can look it .up, and I'lldrop in
in the course of an hour. Ive got to! run
over in Exchange place a moment-just
look it up for me."
" With pleasure, sir."
And Mr. John Trueman' bowed himself
out of the office.
Once'out he emitted, from between: his
closed lips that sort of a low, long drawn
whistle which might not ibe. inappro-
priately teamed a musical-chupkle..
q R-o-b-e-r-t G-1-e-n-h-a-m I .Well, I
am in luck, if I never was before. llen-
ham is the signature upon that cheque
paid by St. Leon to Clutchit's employer.
Either that cheque is 'another forgery of
St. Leon's, or he and Glenham are birds
of a feather. My mind is made up. I'll
nab St. -Leon. That'll be step number
one. Step number two,- interview Glien-
ham in relation to the cheque.' 'And tep
number three-'ll think about that.' I
think Fm the one who will unrAviel this
precious tangle.' Drill has business with
this Glenham; but Drill is .close as an
oyster. Never mind, I'll see." 'S6 cogitat-
ing he went his 'way not a little.elated-
with the discovery of the lottery tiokat
clue.
Now he had the torn -letter, the ring,
the secret of the lottery ticket, and the
name'of the man who presentedit.

CHAPTER XLIII.
THU MAJRIAGE OF EDITH DUVAL'.
Trgreatfront of, the ,rsidence of Je-
Tome    val was dark,the  avily @aped
WdQwagave none of the wonted signs of
eythin; ,there might have been death
there,. or the splendidly appointed palace
deserted for all of show of occupancy
visible to the passer by.
Glenhapn ascending thesteps, hesitated.
Why sould he obtrilde himself upon the
familyin that moment mhen itshead had
been stricken down from the Jeight of
fortune to common povertyI
WouldEdith receive him at such a
tim  I  .
These were the questions which arose
in his mind and made him momentarily
hesitate.
''Then, as if decided, he rang the bell.
The servant ushered him into the recep-
tion-room, and in a few moments returned
with the answer: "Miss Duv,al is in. This
way, sir."f
Uip'to the 'driawing-room as before.
Her their Was with her.
Evidentlythere had been something of
serious import in -their conversation*
Duval looked old, careworn, and 'there
was a careless disregard of his usual neat.,
ness in his attire.
Ih voice was husky and tremulous..
It was plainly apparent-that 6e' was un-.
dergoing.some, terrible jn0rtal ordeal )an
ordeal th~ttonly the great calaiity Which
had 'fan   'im could have compelled,
him.to Aqept. .
Edit sat pear- a small centre,,be her
he   resting,,4  er ard
he4 4'  n   pn bei hapd.
There'wsistraces of tears upon her fair
fae and inher eyes there was'that dim,
wistful expression w#ih  nil  trouble
dri
As'Vxiiham entered Duval arose and,
sile tly'saluted hhh; the'iYeseated hhn-
splf.  From Edith Glenham -received
faint mile of recognition.
hM. Glenliam your visit could not,
-lave 1e ! mdde in better time."

"I am glad of It,",replied Glenham,
wonderingly.
"Mr, Glenham, you were the subject,
partly, of our conversation when your
presence was announced. Had you not
arrived, I should at a later hour have sent
for you.
"In what way is my presence so wel-
come?"
"Be seated, Mr. Glenham." Glenham
obeyed the Tequest, by placing himself
near Edith.
"Mr. Glenham, you pare, aware of the
;gneat ,agd un4expected  ophletiat iga
fallen uponme in fi pci l.1wAters., I am
to-dayreduped ,to ,the plane of poverty
from whch I firtarose. Of the puse of
my downfall I alone know tlAe eet, for
the one who has wrought this nisery is
dead. The world and Wall street say--and
Have not contradicted it-that my failure
Is due to the collapse of' my great railway
scheme. t is not so. That was nothing!"
Glenham 'stared curiously at him, and
instinctively, as if anticipating what was
to come, placed his hand over ,his, beast
pocket in which- was deposited the,'doca-
ment left him by the dead cashier.
- "I had, picashier, lately kifled 'by an
a;vidept ; Ips napme was l(amp.. I had
great, trwatin him, and h1obpettayed me"
"For -What reasotut"
Dtival 'hesitated, -then, as 'if choking
down some latent impulsaeof truth. contin-
utd, "I-I-Iknow not. He had no reason.
Had he not been killed sosuddenly, one
week longer of life would have beheld him
an innate -of the Totnb1 on a charge of
embezzlement. I had for week since. I
aidedentally discovered his-hi'crme,
'been preparingfor ikb"
"En beislement !" taid Glenham.
"Yesfor I' discovered 'thathe had ab-
stracted, by means 'of Ihis'entire 'control
over the aWfairs of the bank,'fom the safes
nearly a million dollars worth of securities
-stocks, bonds, and mortgages, and 'by
meansof damiiiesandcopies, andfalse en--
triesblinded niy eyes as-to the reality c6f his
gigantis cime. These securities were the

I)ETWEEN, THE CRIUST5.


106               BETWEEN THE CRVTSTS.

property of various depositors, in my
hands for safe keeping."
" Did you not at' once tax, him with
this I"
"No. I waited until I could make all
sure."
Glenham well knew the reason Duval
had not at once brought the cashier to
punishment.
"This blow crushed me," said, Duval.
I I saw the inevitable end coming, and
yet I strove by all the means in my power
to avert it. Had it not been for this sud-
den panic, which has involved all through
the country so many failures, I might,
perhaps, have conquered, and my house
still retained untarnished its great name.
As it is I am-"
He broke down for the instant.
Edith sat motionless.
Glenham was about to speak when Du-
val recovered himself and continued:
"Mr Glenham, five days ago I had hoped
that this house would have been graced
by the wedding of my daughter Edith to
the son of one of the wealthiest men in
the city-"
"Father!" exclaimed Edith.
"That marriage is impossible now.
Perhaps from what I have since, even to-
day, learned, it would still have been im
possible, for Edith has confessed that she
has formed an attachment for you, and
further, that an engagement has taken
place. Upon two conditions I give my con-
sent."
f What are the conditions, Mr. Duval'
asked Glenham.,
" The first condition is that you place
to her credit and solely to her own use the
sum of fifty thousand dollars, and provide
an annuity for her mother-who now lie
ill from the effects of this calamity whicl
has fallen on us-of five thousand a year
the second is that the marriage shall b
strictly private, and shall take place i
this apartment immediately!"
If Glenham had been before surprised
he was now amazed. Edith extended-he
hand and placed it in his, and murmured

" Robert, can you do this ? If not, it shall
not separate us.".,
"To the.conditions I assent, Mr. Duval,
with* this proviso, that here I draw up, a
memorandum of agreement to be ratified
hereafter; to the fulfllment of which I
pledge myself, and that the marriage
shall take place, as we are, without
other preparation, and within half an
hour."
To this Duval consented. Within half
an hour a carriage was sent for a minister.
By the time he arrived the memorandiim
was drawn up and signed.
Edith, blushing and terrified, yet with
an expression of love and 'trustful hope
gleaming through her tears, placed her
-aand in that of Glenbam's, and they stood
up in the dimly-lighted room, with her
father at her side.
The marriage service was soon perform-
ed, and the minister departed.
CHAPTER XLIV-
BROUGHT TO BAY AT LAST.
"AT least, Edith," said Duval,'"if all
my plans for your future have failed, I
,have, in this moment of my supremest
grief and ruin, provided for you.",
"Dear father, all is not yet lost. Your
name-"
A servant entered and announced a
visitor.
"Mr. John Trueman!"
"What is his business " said Duval.
"He says it isof the utmost importance.
He also asked for a Mr. Gunnem.",
" Glenham, he means," said Glenham.
" Well, admit him. I will see him."
A moment later, and Mr. John True..
man entered.I
"I beg pardon for this intrusion," he
h said, "But my business is of that sort
which don't allow much ceremony. It is
e with Mr. Glenham that I have this busi-
n ness to transact."
" Some other time. This is neither time
nor place," interrprpted Duval. "Mr. Glen-
r ham is engaged now. ,Wait below in
the reception room."

Sorry, but I can not. My appoint-
ments are numerous and my'time is lim-
ited- Life is short, and waiting don't
lengthen it. Mr. Glenham, I called an
hour or more ago at your hotel. As I
came up I saw you enter your carriage,
and heard your direction tq the driver.,
Had I been a few moments sooner I would
riot have had occasion to follow you here.
Mr Glenham you're WANTED I"
WantedI Why, what do you mean I"
Shall I speak it out here before this
-lady and Mr. Duval?"
Certainly. Out with it, and then take
your leave," said Glenham, sharply. "You
are an entire stranger to me, and I can
not for the life of me imagine what urgen-
ey there, can be in your business whatever
it may be."
"Mr. Glenham, my name is John True-
man. My business, as this shield will in-
form you, is that of a detective!"
"A detective!"
Glenham paled.
4 Yes, sir, and it is you I want.".
" Me-I-what for?"
"Ihave a warrant, drawn up this morn-
ing, -for your arrest. In this warrant you
are charged with the murder of. Robert
Treinor on the night of the fifth of March,
eighteen hundred and fifty-five."
Had a thunderbolt fallen at his feet,
Glenham  could not have been   more
stunned than by this terrible accusation.
Duval became almost livid in the face,.
Mr. Trueman was used to such scenes.
He was as calm as if he were merely in-
viting a friend to dinner,
"Not only for the murder, but the rob-
bery of Robert Trainor on that night."
"'No, no! It is false !. On my soul I am
as innocent of that crime as-as-you
are," he cried.I
" That's to be settled hereafter. You
are not Robert Glenham. Here is a torn
letter found in the cellar in Pell street in
which you lived, and into which by some
means this man Trainor was decoyed,'
murdered, robbed, and stripped of his
clothing.  This letter was written by
your wife, Mary Jaffray, and addressed

to hernother. Here, too, is a ring found
irpon the finger of the murdered man,
Vith hi initials uppnit. 4nd to makq ps-
surance doubly sure in the tra* of cir-
cumstantial evidence, there was among
the papers in the possession of Robert
Trainor attthe time of the ipurder a ticket
in the Bavavi Igottery numbered 1-9-3-9,
which drew a prize of one hundred thou-
sand dollars. That ticket you presented
and drew the money for. Your real name
is George Jaffi'ay, and by that name I ar-
rest you!I"
Glenham, with one last pitying glance
at Edith turned, boldly and confronted
his accuser and the banker.
"Further concealment is useless. Yes,
I am George Jaffray i but I am not guilty
of murder. I have i ot that terrible crime
to answer for." Here, Jaffray-not to, tlhe
detective but to Duval, not deigning to
notice the official-related the story of
that terrible night in tho Poll street base-
ment-the death of his wife by starvation
and his flight. '"And oyer her dead body
I solemnly swore to bitterly revenge the
misery and suffering you brought upon
her and upon me. You drove me step by
step from afluence into the dark depths
of poverty, You cast ;your, child, ny
wife, off-thrust her from her home. You
did this jin the plenitude .of your wealth
and pride. You would not have ,your
daughter wed a man without position and
wealth. You have met your reward. You
pursued me with the vindictiveness of a
fiend. I have followed you with no dther
feeling than-that of triumphing over your
downfall., It was I who attended Abel
Kramp in his dying hours, and In my
hands he placed among    others this
paper. Iu it is recorded the fate of the
abstraction of your securities, all of which
he consigned to the flames. They are
ashes. From him I learned your treach..
ery toward him. Miss Rudolph with
whom you entrapped him into marriage
-she, your mistress,.,and the mother of
a child which was otrawgled at its birth-
ah I Jerome Duval, you had gooA reason
for not proscuting Abel Kramp I Now,

BETWEEN THI  CRUSTSO            107


108

BETWEEN~'THE -CRUSTS.

I have-and you yourself aided in it-j
crowned my revenge by narriage with
Edith-Duval, your dinuhterand am once
more your son-in-law P"
Jerome tnval,' during'Jafrray's terrible
revelation,had sank back into an .easy
chair and had sat there motionless,' his
eyes fixed upon Jaifray with a stolid
stare.
His face was as rigid and white as that
of a dead person.
Edith flung herself upon his breast.
"Oh, father, father!"  But he moved
not.
'lrueman steppeal fortvard "beside 'Du-
val's chair and leaned over.
Then he turned to Jaifray.
" 1 am sorry for this, sir," he said, and
his voice dropped Almost to a whisper,
pointing to the banker. "But-but--he'is
dead I She had better be removed. This,
Is the worst case'I ever had."
"iEdith !" said Jaifray, "Edith!"
She looked up at him.
How changed her expression 1'She arose
and grasped Jafray by the hand.
" Conie," she 8a'id; "come! W'll-go and
get married now, and we 11 have a royal
wedding. Come, father, come, you must
be with us, and bring mother and Mary
with you."-
"My God! She's crazed,' exclaimed
Glenham.
"Mad, surely !" said Trueman.   He
'ushed to the door and shouted for the
servants. 'They dame pouring in.
4 1Anil this is my revenge?!" was the only
utterance of George Jaifray.
.      .        .    9
The end had come. In the confusion of
the moment Trueman had forgotten his
usual caution and watchfulness, and when
he turned toward where Jaifray-had ,been
standing he was gone.
Escaped-
Yest and never again was he 'seen by
Mi-. John Trieman.
Ling -years after a grayahaired -man
with bient form, penniless, strilen with
paralysis, and almost-helpless was taken

in charge- by the 'police in London as a
vagrait.
'He gave his namje as, George Jaifray.
While the commitment was being made
out, he dropped nerveless to the 6foor-
'dead.
'He was a vagrarit no longer.
After the funeral of Duval, Edith's
mother 'died, and then Edith' became the-
inmate of an asylum near the city, h pe-
lessly insane.
Mr. John Trueman arrested St. Leon,.
but not without mortally wounding 'him
in an attempt to escape.
The memory of the Pell street tragedy
having been revived in connection with.
the late occurrences at the 'Duval man-
sion, it wa4 revealed through his 'dying
confession that he, St. Leon, aided ly Mo-
quard, wbre the villains who had thrown
Robert Traigor down the steps of 'Jaf-
fray's wretched abbde, an~d had after-
wards returned and stripped the body in
order to prevent, if possIble,'any identifi-
cation.
Louise Trainor rewarded Trueman well
for -his 'labor and zeal ir'dispelling the
mystery'whieh had shrouded hetbrotheka
'fate, and "Mr. 'Traeman '"'apped the
0limaxOf the biggest case he ever worked
up," by the 'arrest of 'Moquard, who was
shortly after convicted of miurder,'and,
escaping the death peialey; Was imprison-
-ed-for life.
Mr.,'Pawridge went on in his old way
preabhing love and making leve to the
young lambs of his flock, and still watch-
ed and berated by his wife.
-Mr. Clutchit became-a barikeeper, 'and
from-the savings 'of a salary ot ten dol-
lars a week was in a ,few months enabled
;tobuy out his employer.
Madame Moquard disappeared one d&amp;Y
from the-hotel; and 'it was supposed 'sail-
ed, for Europe.
One word more and then the curtain
'falls.
There was aquiet wedding party in the
,House sof the ,Ehoes one evening-very
,quiet, yet wherein all 'concerned *ere
,happy.

t

BETWEEN THE CRUSTS.

109

It was at this wedding that Mr. John  This was his wedding.
Trueiat received his chief reward, and  So out o.f all the deceit and hypocrisy,
-one which he had not anticipated When the shams and rascality which are hidden
he began his service for Miss Trainor  away in the great social pie, there is yet
The reward he received gave him an as- a little seasoning of truth and goodness
.surance of a happy future; for he received and virtue left when one looks "Between
the hand in marriage of Louise Trainor.  the Crusts."

THE ENDS

o0

0


                                                                                                                            
             
         
       
   
