
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Convict, or, The Conspirators' Victim .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6961
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            Just Published, "THE SECRET OUT; or, 1000 Tricks with Cards and other Recreations." Illustrated with over 300 Engravings. 12mo. Cloth. Price $1.00. 
            COMPLETE. PRICE 75 CENTS. 
             
               THE CONSPIRATOR'S VICTIM 
             
            
                
             
            BY NED BUNTLINE, AUTHOR OF "MYSTERIES AND MISERIES OF NEW YORK," "B'HOYS OF NEW YORK," "THREE YEARS AFTER," "LIFE YARN," "THE JEW'S DAUGHTER," "THE WHITE CRUISER," "LIFE IN THE PRAIRIES," "THE RED RIGHT HAND," "THE BUCCANNER'S DAUGHTER," &c. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               DICK & FITZGERALD, PUBLISHERS.
             
            Just Published, "INQUIRE WITHIN; or, 3,700 Facts for the People." Large Bound Volume. Price $1 00 Sent to any address, free of Postage. 
          
          
             
            DICK & FITZGERALD'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 
             
               Books for the People. 
               INQUIRE WITHIN for Anything you want to Know; or, Over 3,500 Facts for the People. Illustrated, 12mo., 436 large pages, price $1 00 "Inquire Within" is one of the most valuable and extraordinary volumes over presented to the American public, and embodies nearly four thousand Facts, in most of which any person living will find instruction, aid, and entertainment. "Inquire Within" is sold at the low price of one dollar, and yet it contains 436 pages of closely printed matter, and is handsomely and strongly bound. It is a Doctor, a Gardener, a Schoolmaster, a Dancing Master, an Artist, a Naturalist, a Modeler, a Cook, a Lawyer, a Surgeon, a Chess-Player, a Chemist, a Cosmetician, a Brewer, an 
                     Acountant
                     Accountant
                  , an Architect, a "Letter Writer," a "Hoyle," and a Universal Guide to all kinds of Useful and Fancy Employment, Amusement, and Money-making. Besides all this information-and we have not room to give an idea of a hundredth part of it-it contains so many valuable and useful recipes, that an enumeration of them requires seventy-two columns of fine type for the index. 
               THE SOCIABLE; or, One Thousand and One Home Amusements. Containing Acting Proverbs, Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or Drawing-room Pantomimes, Musical Burlesques, Tableaux Vivants, Parlor Games, Games of Action, Forfeits, Science in Sport, and Parlor Magic, and a choice collection of curious Mental and Mechanical Puzzles, &c. Illustrated with nearly 300 engravings and diagrams, the whole being a fund of never-ending entertainment. By the author of "The Magician's Own Book." Nearly 400 pages, 12mo., cloth, gilt side stamp, price 1 00 
               THE REASON WHY. A careful collection of some thousands of reasons for things, which, though generally known, are imperfectly understood. A book of condensed scientific knowledge for the million. By the author of "Inquire Within." It is a handsome 12mo. volume of 356 pages, printed on fine paper, bound in cloth, gilt, and embellished with a large number of wood-cuts, illustrating the various subjects treated of price 1 00.  It contains a collection and solution of THIRTEEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY-TWO FACTS IN SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY, some of which, on their first discovery, puzzled the most learned and apt scholars. Some idea may be formed of its vast usefulness, when we inform the reader that it has an Index of contents requiring 40 columns of fine type. 
               THE MAGICIAN'S OWN BOOK. A complete Guide to the Art of Conjuring, being a Hand-Book of Parlor Magic, and containing several hundred amusing Magical, Magnetical, electrical, and Chemical Experiments, Astonishing Transmutations, Wonderful Sleight of Hand and Card Tricks, Curious and Perplexing Puzzles. Quaint and Entertaining Tricks and Questions in Numbers, Secret Writing Explained, Sleights and Subtleties in Legerdemain, &c., together with all the most noted Tricks of Modern Performers. Illustrated with over 500 wood engravings, 12mo., cloth, gilt side and back stamp, 400 pages, price 1 00 
               EVERY WOMAN HER OWN LAWYER. A private Guide in all matters of Law, of essential interest to women, and by the aid of which every female may, in whatever situation, understand her legal course and redress, and be her own Legal Adviser; containing the laws of the different States relative to Marriage and Divorce, Property in Marriage, Guardians and Wards, Rights in Property of a Wife, Rights of Widows, False Pretenses in Courtship, &c. By GEORGE BISHOP price 1 00 
               THE BORDEAUX WINE & LIQUOR DEALERS' GUIDE. A Treatise on the Manufacture and Adulteration of Liquors. By a practical Liquor Manufacturer. 12mo., cloth price 1 50. In this work not one article in the smallest degree approximating to a poison is recommended, and yet the book teaches how Cognac Brandy, Scotch and Irish Whisky, Foreign and Domestic Rum, all kinds of Wines, Cordials, &c., from the choicest to the commonest, can be  to that perfection, that the best judges cannot detect the method of manufacture, even by chemical tests of the 
                   
                  character! The author, after telling what such liquid is composed of, furnishes a formula for making its exact counterpart-exact in everything! Each formula is comprehensive-no one can misunderstand it. The ingredients are specifically named, and the quantity  of each distinctly set forth. With this book in his hand say dealer can manufacture his own liquor, at a saving of from 500 to 600 per cent. 
               LIVE AND LEARN. A Guide for all who wish to speak and write correctly; particularly intended as a book of reference for the solution of difficulties connected with Grammar, Composition, Punctuation, etc., etc., with explanations of Latin and French words and phrases of frequent occurrence in newspapers, reviews, periodicals, and books in general, containing examples of One Thousand Mistakes, of daily occurrence, in speaking, writing, and pronunciation, 216 pages, cloth, 12mo., price 50. "Live and Learn" is a most useful book, designed as a guide to grammar, composition, and punctuation. So few people speak or write really good grammar, and fewer still punctuate decently, that a book that informs them how to do so-and not only that indicates their faults, but shows them how they are to be corrected-cannot fail to be popular; there is not a person, indeed, who might not learn something from it. 
               THE LADY'S MANUAL OF FANCY WORK. A complete instructor in every variety of Ornamental Needle-Work; including Applique, Bead-Work, Berlin-Work, Braiding, Bobbin-Work, Crochet, Embroidery, Golden Tapestry, Knitting, Knotting, Lace-Work, Muslin-Work. French Embroidery, Netting, Orne-Work, Patch-Work, Point-Lace, Potichomanie, Taps'o D'Auxerre, Tape-Work, Tatting, Transferring, Velvet Balls, Wire-Work, Shading and Coloring, Printers' Marks. Explanatory Terms, etc., etc. With a list of materials and hints for their selection; advice on making up and trimming; a catalogue of articles suitable for Wedding. Birthday, and New Year Gifts; and a glossary of French and German terms used in needle-work, not to be found in any dictionary. The whole being a complete Lexicon of Fancy Needle-Work. By Mrs. PULLAN. Editor of the London and Paris Gazette of Fashion, and Director of the Work-table of Frank Leslie's Magazine, Illustrated Magazine, &c., &c. Illustrated with over 300 engravings by the best artists, with eight large pattern plates. Elegantly printed in colors on tinted paper. Large octavo, beautifully bound in fine cloth, with gilt side and back stamp, price 1 00. There is no imaginable species of fancy needle-work, knotting, knitting, netting, lace-work, embroidery, crochet, &c., &c., which may not be found fully illustrated in this volume, and here are complete instructions for the inexperienced, from the pen of one of the ablest of needle-women of the present age. 
               ANECDOTES OF LOVE. Being a true account of the most remarkable events connected with the History of Love in all Ages and among all Nations. By LOLA MONTEZ, Countess of Landsfeldt. Large 12mo, cloth, price 1 00. These romantic and surprising anecdotes really contain all of the most tragic and comic events connected with the history of the tender passion among all nations and in all ages of the world. It is precisely the kind of book which a man will find it impossible to relinquish until he has read it through from the first to the last chapter. And besides the exciting love histories embraced in this volume, it really contains a great deal of valuable historic lore, which is not to be found except by reading through interminable volumes. 
               ARTS OF BEAUTY; or, Secrets of a Lady's Toilet. With Hints to Gentlemen on the Art of Fascinating. By Madame LOLA MONTEZ, Countess of Landsfeldt. Cloth, gilt side, price 50. This book contains an account, in detail, of all the arts employed by the fashionable ladies of all the chief cities of Europe, for the purpose of developing and preserving their charms. Independent of its rare and really useful matter, the book is a curiosity as a piece of art, itself, for the most delicate subjects are handled with a skill, and an unexceptional propriety of language, which is really surprising. This work is also full of the curious and useful recipes, used by the beauties of Europe, and will enable our ladies to supply their toilets, at a trifling cost, with what cannot be purchased at the perfumer's at any cost. 
               THE FAMILY AQUARIUM. A new pleasure for the Domestic Circle. Being a familiar and complete instructor upon the subject of the construction, fitting up, stocking, and maintenance of the Marine and Fresh Water Aquaria, or River and Ocean Gardens. By H. D. BUTLER, Esq. 12mo., cloth, gilt side stamp, price 50. This work is a complete adaptation to American peculiarities of every species of useful information upon Marine and Fresh Water Aquariums, to be met with in the elaborate volumes of European authority; together with a careful concentration of all the practical results of the author's great experience in the structure and management of Aquaria. 
             
            Any Book on our List will be sent to any address in the United States or Canada, free of postage
             
            Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, No. 18 Ann Street, New York. 
          
          
             
             
               THE CONVICT: 
               OR THE CONSPIRATORS' VICTIM 
               A NOVEL, WRITTEN IN PRISON. 
             
            BY NED BUNTLINE.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               DICK & FITZGERALD,  
                     18 ANN STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1863. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863. BY THOMAS BAKER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York 
          
          
             
            Preface and Dedication. 
            THE author dedicates this work to all Americans who love their country; to all men, who loving justice and scorning oppression and wrong, despise the oppressor. He sends it forth for the PEOPLE's perusal, well aware of its imperfections, but hoping that though in itself it may fail to work the great good which he desires, it may arouse the People to thought, and induce ultimate action upon matters which deeply concern the welfare of the Nation. It is not written to make money, for he values money as little as he does the smile of an aristocrat; it is not written to gain for its author literary fame, else would he have chosen a more congenial subject-have launched his bark upon his old home, the ocean, and wandered away among the lovely maidens, and luscious fruits, and beautiful flowers of the Southern Isles; or, mounting his blooded steed, as of yore, have dashed out upon the lake-like prairie, through the grand forests, or over the wild hills of the glowing West. It is written to stir up a hornet's nest-it is written to show Americans that they are nursing serpents in their bosoms; it is written to illustrate the destiny of those who, forgetting themselves in their sympathy for the wrongs of the human family, dare to come out and battle against vice and error, for the RIGHT. To the MEN and WOMEN of America I offer it; I ask its perusal at their hands, for there are truths in it which must be heard. 
          
       
      
         
            The convict, or, The conspirators' victim 
             
             
            THE CONVICT. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IN a small attic chamber, of a house in an obscure street of New York, a young man was seated, whose position and expression of countenance indicated a thoughtful anxiety-a mind not altogether at rest. The furniture of the room was very simple. It consisted of a small cot bed, a couple of chairs, a pine table, upon which lay a few sheets of paper, pen and ink, a newspaper or two, and three or four monthly magazines and reviews. In one corner, a tin basin and a water pitcher, minus the handle, answered for ablutory apparatus. A few engravings of various kinds were wafered against the walls, without frames. This constituted all the furniture of the apartment. The room was very small-where the roof slanted off, one could not stand upright, but by the window, and back near the door it was higher. 
               There was nothing very remarkable in the appearance of the sole occupant of this room. He looked pale and thin, and there was an expression of care and inward suffering, which might excite the sympathy of a close observer. His age appeared to be twenty-five years, or thereabouts; his forehead was rather high and square, lips thin and expressive of firmness, eyes of blue, and features indicating an Anglo-Norman descent as did also the thick masses of slightly curling light brown hair, which descended low upon his very white neck. He was of medium height, full chested but slender in the waist, with small hands and feet. His dress, without being actually shabby, denoted poverty. It had been fashioned in its day, even as were fig leaves in "the good old days of Adam and Eve," and it was "cut to fit," but now it was threadbare, and in places had been darned with stitches of a variable character, long and short ones, evidently put in by an unskilful hand. From this the reader will correctly infer that the young gentleman was enduring single wretchedness, and had not yet had the presumption to attempt to starve any man's daughter. 
               It was about seven o'clock in the morning. The bed wherein he had passed the night had not yet been made up, but having made a proper use of soap, water and the tow towel hung on a nail over the wash-stand, the young man had seated himself and seemed pondering on some absorbing object, for from time to time, he mutteringly repeated this word: "Strange, strange, STRANGE." 
               The loud ring of a breakfast bell, below stairs, did not seem to disturb his meditations, but a few minutes afterwards a light tap at his door caused him to start to his feet, and as he did so, in a low voice he bade the visitor enter. 
               The door opened, and a very pretty little girl, of fourteen or fifteen years of age, (judging from her looks,) entered, saying at the same time: 
               "Breakfast is ready, Mr. Cramer-after you go down I'll make up your bed and sweep your room!" 
               It was very impolite in him, but the young man made no immediate reply to the fair girl, but with his arms folded on his breast, stood and gazed intently at her. He might be excused for this, though, for she was very handsome. Her apparel indicated that she was not yet considered "a young lady," for she wore a short dress, and from beneath, the lace-bottomed, coquettish pantalet, peeped out a beautiful little foot, bound in a slipper of black morocco. Her low-necked dress revealed shoulders and neck of snowy whiteness, plump and graceful-short sleeves permitted her arms to appear in view; arms so plump, so round, so tapering into the delicate wrist and ending in lovely hands, that any man of taste who had his choice of the manner of dying, would like to be hugged to death by them. Her hair was very dark, and hung in wavy ringlets down over her lovely neck and shoulders, rendering loveliness lovelier by the contrast of color. Her features, though not classically regular, were very pleasing; her countenance was expressive, gay and smiling. She looked as if sad thoughts never had yet entered her young heart-as if no storm had vet clouded the May-flowers of her existence. Her complexion was rich, and glowing with the ruddy hue of health; her eyes, oh, such eyes! The very soul and life of her beauty was in her eyes, fringed as they were by black, glossy lashes, which, when her glance was cast down, lay like delicate pencilings below the eye-lid. In color, they were jetty-black, and as softly, liquidly bright as the eye of a pet gazelle. Such a beauty was LIZZIE LAUREL. 
               What wonder, then, that Ernest Cramer looked at her for full a minute after she entered the room, without speaking, and that she, blushing a very little beneath his earnest gaze, repeated her first remark. 
               "Thank you, Lizzie-thank you!" he replied. "I feel no appetite this morning. I think I shall not go down to breakfast!" 
               "Why, my goodness, Mr. Cramer! You don't eat as much as my pet kitten. I declare you must be in love!" 
               "No, Lizzie, for me there is no love, and but little joy on earth. I have but a sad fate, my sweet friend!" 
               "Oh, don't say so, sir! You don't know everything, though you do write for the papers and make poetry!" 
               "That is true, Lizzie," replied the young man gravely, "and as you sometimes stop laughing and singing, to think, I am about to ask your advice." 
               "My advice? Ah, I see you've got tired of sewing on your buttons-mean to get married, and want to know who to have. Now don't have an old maid, because-" 
               "Stop, stop, you little tease. I'm not so desperately situated as to be forced into thoughts of matrimony; I've had a dream, a very strange dream!". 
               "Oh, pshaw! There's no romance in dreams," cried the young beauty, pettishly, "go to grandma if you want a dream interpreted." 
               "I do not wish an interpretation, Lizzie. I wish your advice as to which of two courses to take, for, in this dream, two roads through life were laid open before me, and I was directed to make a choice of one or the other!" 
               "Then I'll advise you to take the one which you'll not have to travel alone on! I don't believe in going on a long journey all alone!" 
               "But hear my dream before you advise me, Lizzie!" 
               "Well, Mr. Poet, I will, if you won't be too long, for if you are, the breakfast will get all cold, and-and maybe mother will think you've been courting me, and you know that that isn't so." 
               The coquettish girl, both in tone and look, rather hinted that she would not have been displeased if it had been so; but Ernest did not appear to understand or care for the hint, but proceeded to relate his 
               DREAM. 
               "I thought," he said, "that I stood upon a hill-side, admiring a lovely landscape which lay spread out like a picture before me. Close at the bottom of the hill was a small lake fringed with long-leaved willows, upon which the broad green leaves and white blossoms of the water-lily floated. From this a small stream made outlet, running off in a silvery thread along a valley, through meadows and fields, here passing close before a cottage door, and kissing the bare feet of white-headed children which waded through its bright waters; there dashing in foam over a rocky ledge, and eddying away into deeper and more sluggish channels below." 
               "I'll sit down sir, if you please!" cried Lizzie, taking a chair. "I see you are going to tell a long story. Now go on, sir; you left off in the stream!" 
               "Well, well, never mind the landscape; I'll not bore you with a description of that, but be as brief as possible. I was standing alone, as I thought, upon this hill-side, when a voice close by my side, so close that it startled me, for I had heard no footstep, said: 
               "'Enjoy that glorious view, my young friend; you cannot always have such before you in this changeable world.' 
               "I turned quickly around, and observed a tall, grave-looking elderly man, one whose look, though sad, seemed to be full of kindness and wisdom. An air of gentle dignity marked his demeanor. Observing my surprise, he continued: 
               "'You do not know me, Ernest Cramer, yet, from the stormy hour which ushered you into life, up to the present moment, I have watched your career; have seen you in adversity and prosperity, in peril and in safety, in turmoil and in strife, peace and security. I have seen some traits in your character of which I approve, but much that I must condemn, and which requires improvement!" 
               "Pride and anger joined hands in my breast, and urged me to inquire what right he had to condemn any trait in my character, or to speak so familiarly to me; but an involuntary awe seemed not only to chain me to the spot, but to prevent me giving utterance to my thoughts, or speaking in reply. But he continued, seeming, from his words, to be cognisant of every thought within me. 
               "'It is useless,' he said, 'to be angry or impatient, for you must listen to me. I have a mission which concerns you, and must be fulfilled. Alas! that I could not always be with you; but there is another who was born in the same dark and stormy hour of terror as yourself, and to him I have also duties to perform. You are wondering who I am. I am a guardian spirit sent from Heaven to aid and guard, and if possible, save you, for a dark and clouded life is before you, I fear. You smile; you believe me not; you scorn the thought that spirits from another world can hold converse with mortals, or at certain exigencies be permitted to assume real shapes. Reach out your hand to touch me, and be convinced!' 
               "I did so; and though he seemed to stand there, I could feel nothing. I shuddered, trembled, and could not but believe He then continued 
                
               "'My present mission to you is this. You have arrived at an age when character is formed; when the man is moulded, and I am permitted, by the goodness of HIM who is ALMIGHTY, to lay before you two courses of life, and of these you can make choice. 
               "'One leads quietly through a dull level, but pleasant valley where the sun is never very bright, nor the sky ever very dark; where the scene is ever the same, and where, at 'a green old age,' you can lay down, 'wrap the drapery of your couch about you,' and die, wept by a few, for to the many you will be utterly unknown. Take this road and your epitaph will be-'HERE REPOSES ONE WHO HAD NO ENEMIES.' 
               "'The other road is far different. It is over rugged mountains, with but here and there a pleasant resting-place. The sun may sometimes glance out upon you for a moment; but, even while it shines warm upon you, storms will arise, clouds will hide it, and your form, all too frail and slender for such a blast, will be wrapped in the tempest. Your life will be change, change, continually. You will be apter to rest in the prison than the palace. Foes will beset you on every hand, meet you at every turn. The feeble will be struggling along the same rough road; as they stumble and stagger over the pointed rocks, along the wild chasms, they will shriek to you for help. If you pause to aid them, your foes will gather around you, aye, and perchance they will destroy you, while you are thus performing noble and Christian acts. The poor and oppressed of the earth whom you will find weeping and fainting by the way-side, will look up to you; if you help them, they will reward you with fervent prayers and grateful blessings, but envious and malignant foes will turn every good act into evil, by their accounts; your best deeds will be veiled by slander and distorted by malice. You may pass through all these dangers and difficulties, but it is far more probable that you will perish, as the noblest of your race have done before you, before you can gain the sunshine, the glorious sunshine beyond the last mountain. If you die on the road, your name will be blackened by foes, but those whom you have helped will weep, and in their hearts your monument will be! If you pass all dangers, your triumph will strike a enemies dumb fame, honor, distinction, will be yours; but be warned, the last is a narrow and almost hopeless chance! Now choose, but be cautious, for on one word depends your future fate!'" 
               "As he said this, I awoke, and found that I had been dreaming, yet for my life I cannot banish the vision from my mind, and I feel that from this day I must take a course which will last through life. Which shall I take, Lizzie, the stormy or the pleasant one?' 
               "The old gentleman didn't tell you whether you'd have a wife to travel either of the roads with you?" 
               "No, you little witch!" 
               "Then I can't advise which to take till I know whether you're to be allowed a wife on either of them-dream again to-night, and come down to breakfast now!" 
               "I cannot eat;-what a strange dream!" 
               "Pshaw, I'm sure you're in love! Now tell me, who is it? Is it Miss Smith, or Miss Brown, or widow Jenkins or-" 
               "Yourself, Lizzie? That was what you intended to ask next!" 
               "Oh, la, no! I'm too young to be loved, and-and, I'm sure the breakfast is cold!" 
               The young girl, rendered still more beautiful by a blush and a confusion as natural as her own character, turned from the room, and singing gaily, "I'm over young to marry yet," hurried down stairs. 
               Cramer remained in the room, occasionally giving utterance to his thoughts, arguing and advising with himself. 
               "It is plain"-he said "Yes, I have a choice-a choice between inglorious ease and personal comfort-a life of uselessness and selfishness; or a life of glorious strife. 'Tis braver to battle with the ills of life than to avoid them; 'tis nobler to combat vice and wrong and oppression, than to live for self alone; my choice is made-the field for labor is large. The ill-paid artisan; the starving sewing girl; the wronged factory operatives, loaded down with oppression by monied monopolists; my dear country burdened with taxation to support paupers imported from foreign climes; labor rendered cheaper and more difficult to obtain by the beggarly competition of these foreign-born serfs; the blighting and dangerous influence of combined ed and secret associations of foreigners; the plot of a sect who de sign to make this country the strong-hold and garden of Popery, and by electing their own members to public offices and power, to yet link their church with our National and State Governments; the gambling hells and dens of robbery and putridity in our cities; the prostitution of Justice; the barter and sale of all our dearest rights!-oh! in all this, is there not a field, glorious, even as it is a dangerous field for ambition to enter upon, for a bold, true-hearted lover of common humanity to labor in! Sink or swim, that field shall be mine! If I fail-it shall not be for want of trying; if I fall, it shall be with my feet to the foe and my face to the sun! 
               "And now I think I'll go to breakfast. I wonder if it is cold?" 
               Suiting his actions to his words, as he closed his soliloquy, the young man left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A YEAR later. "Time changes all things," or at least so goes the old adage, and we can in everything meet its verification. A year ago we saw Ernest Cramer in a little attic, his appearance denoting poverty, his situation evidently nigh akin to penury. We will see what change a year has wrought for him. 
               It is evening-an evening in December, and the wind is heard whistling shrilly out of doors, and sleet dashes against the window panes. Within a snug back parlor, seated at a centre-table which is drawn near to a cheerful fire, he sits, engaged in writing, with a pile of manuscript before him. Letters in one place, sealed and ready for mailing; a large pile of opened correspondence in another, and a roll of "proofs" yet damp from the printer's office, show that his business has increased, though still the same as before. His dress, though plain, is genteel, and not threadbare as it was. The parlor is comfortably furnished, not richly, and the one door of a bed-room adjoining exhibits the wonderful and astonishing fact that one who earns his living by his pen has been enabled to indulge in the extravagance of two rooms. 
               But look-a servant enters, bearing a large tray filled with eatables, smoking hot. Why really this is wrong-out of the way! It's generally the rule for young authors to starve, Chatterton like; they are never appreciated until like Coop-(no I won't incur a libel suit,) until like "some folks" they get grey-headed and stupid With the servant, bearing a couple of candles, appears the same lovely girl whom we took a look at in the first chapter. But even as the slowly budding rose appears more beautiful as it leaf by leaf unfolds, so the year had added beauty to Lizzie. Her form is more full and womanly, her features more set, and better defined. Her eye too seems more intelligent-brighter, yet it has the same mischievous expression. She has not yet laid aside her short dresses-the coquettish pantalett still half, conceals the slender ancle, and makes that small foot look even smaller than it is. What is prettier than a flower just opening its last leaves into full blossom? What is prettier than a very pretty maiden, who is almost a woman, and still is in the bud of girlhood? 
               When the servant placed the tray upon the young man's table she retired, but Lizzie, drawing a chair to the other side of the table, poured out his tea. As she did so, with a sly smile, she asked: 
               "Have you had any more dreams lately, Mr. Cramer?" 
               "No, Lizzie, this is not a world of dreaming; there are but too many sad realities in it!" 
               "Ah, there you are in the blues again! I do declare, Mr. Cramer, you're enough to make me turn nun-you are always looking at the dark side of everything!" 
               "Not always, Lizzie, but my researches during the past year have been well calculated to make me sad. Ah, had you seen what I saw to-day!" 
               The young man sipped his tea, buttered a piece of toast, and sighed. 
               "Well, what did you see?" asked Lizzie. 
               "I saw that, Lizzie, which almost makes me ashamed to sit here in this comfortable room with so much luxury around me!" 
               "Why I'm sure, Mr. Cramer, no one has a better right to comfort than you who often write all night long. If you earn comforts by your midnight labors, and daily toil, you certainly need not begrudge yourself!" 
               "Ah, Lizzie, that which is now before me might save human life. I this morning saw a young girl-one as young as you, laying cold and dead on the damp earth. She was thin-thin as a shadow. I read starvation written in her sharp features, and then I thought of what her history might have been. Her parents dead; no friends; too timid to beg; too virtuous to do worse; unable to get work; unfit for earth, the cold, heartless earth; just fit for heaven! And yet I pitied her!" 
                
               Cramer paused and looked at Lizzie. Two tears shone in her great black eyes, like dew-drops on jet. But when she saw him look at her, she blushed and wiped them away quickly, as if ashamed of them. And then her eyes looked all the brighter that the holy dew of sympathy had been in them. Then, after a moment's pause, she spoke: 
               "I forgot to tell you, Mr. Cramer, that while you were out this afternoon, a gentleman called to see you-such a handsome gentleman, too!" 
               "A gentleman; did he leave his name?" 
               "Yes, sir: it was Lieutenant-Lieutenant-now what a goose I am! I've forgotten it,-but then he had such handsome eyes! and he was tall, and he wore a moustache which set off his teeth so well!-why don't you wear a moustache, Mr. Cramer,-I do so love a moustache!" 
               "Who could it be? Can you not remember his name?" asked 
                     Camer
                     Cramer
                  , not heeding her query. 
               "No, I've forgotten that; but his eyes were dark blue, and his hair curled; and he had a love of a moustache, and red pouting lips,-I almost wanted to kiss them!" 
               "You shall, pretty miss, if you want to!" said a manly voice at the door, which stood ajar, and at the same time it was pushed open by the speaker, a tall, fine looking young man, dressed in an undress military uniform. 
               "Oh Lord! 'tis himself-he heard me!" cried the girl, turning red as a full blown carnation, and starting back as if she wanted to find some place to hide herself in. 
               "Never mind, never mind-speak of-you know who, and he's sure to pop up before you!" said the soldier with a laugh, and as he advanced, he extended his hand to Cramer, exclaiming, "How are you, Ernest, my boy-I'm deuced glad to see you!" 
               Cramer arose, looking confused, but did not seem to recognise his visitor; while Lizzie took advantage of the chance, and "slipped" out of the room 
               "What!" cried the officer, "have you forgotten me?-Harry Hilton, your old school-mate?" 
                
               "Why, Harry! God bless you, is that you?" and as Cramer uttered this exclamation, he sprang forward, and met his friend's grasp with one full as hearty. "Why, bless your soul, how you have altered: you used to be slim and pale!" 
               "Yes; who wouldn't be, poring over books and-oh, I beg your pardon, Ernest, I didn't mean to be personal, but if you want color and health, there's nothing like field life!" 
               "You have been in Mexico; have seen hard service: I saw your name mentioned creditably in dispatches, but I didn't expect to see you here; to tell the truth, I had almost forgotten you!" said Cramer. 
               "Yes, yes, that's the way; in mind to-day, out of it to-morrow; but go on with your supper; don't let me disturb you!" 
               "You do not: won't you join me? I'll ring the bell!" 
               "No; I've just left the table. But, speaking of the bell, who was that belle who has just retreated from the camp? She's deuced pretty!" 
               "And as good as she is pretty. She is my landlady's daughter: you made quite an impression, it seems, when you called first; but coming in so suddenly now, you frightened her off!" 
               "Well, I'm sorry for that; but I wanted to surprise you; and so when the servant let me in from the street just now, I told her I was an old friend; and telling me which your room was, she let me come up." 
               "You did surprise me, you have altered so. Do you intend to stay long in the city?" 
               "Yes: I've come here to recruit: my company which was eighty strong, when we began the campaign, only eighteen months ago, is now as bad off as Falstaff's was; it only numbers about twenty, and they are lean, lame and ragged. My captain has gone home to recruit his health, and the second lieutenant ran away with a Newport heiress last week to recruit his finances; so you see we're all on recruiting service!" 
               "I read in the papers that you were badly wounded! Was the report untrue?" 
               "No; I did get about an ounce of lead in me; but old Boneset, our surgeon, cut it out on the opposite from where it went in, and after a couple of months laying by, I got about, and was all ready for another dose; but after that there wasn't such good luck, though I saw better men than me shot down by my side!" 
               "Modest as ever, I see, Harry!" 
               "None of your jokes, Ernest: I am modest, you know I am, and as bashful as a miss in her teens, especially-" 
               "When you offer to kiss a young lady to whom you have never been introduced, and have seen but once before!" 
               "Ah, Ernest, you have me there; but then I didn't know that you'd a pre-emption claim in that quarter!" 
               "Nor do you know so now! Lizzie is no more to me than a kind friend! She's but a school-girl yet; and besides, I shall never marry." 
               "Lord! what a sigh you said that with! you haven't forgot your early sweetheart, rosy-cheeked Helen, eh?" 
               "No; nor do I think I ever shall: the road I have chosen through life, is too dark and strange for me to wish to link another in the same fate." 
               "Your life dark! You surprise me! Why I was envying you your prospects. Here you are, only a boy, as I might say, and yet your works sell; you are gaining a name; and your income must certainly be enough to keep you above want. And when you reflect that this is all owing to your own efforts; for I know you have had no aid from others; and that you, while yet so young, have opened upon a career so full of promise, I think you should be anything but sad. Were I you, I'd get married, and enjoy life as I went along. For me, a poor devil of a soldier, here to-day and away to-morrow one year on the seaboard, frollicking with the gayest belles of fashion, the next a hundred miles beyond sunset, with no one to make love to but a stockingless squaw, whose only looking-glass is a water-pond, and whose highest accomplishment is to skin and dress a buffalo; for me whose life is about as roving and a great deal more uncertain than a wandering gipsey's, marriage would be a folly. But for you the case would be different." 
               "Ah, Harry, you know not what is before me. You only think of the success of two or three hastily written works, and think, because they sell well, that I must necessarily be independent and happy?" 
               "Well, why shouldn't you?" 
               "First, you know the nature of those works. They are written to expose the evils of society; to tell the world the sufferings of the wretched and oppressed; to unveil life as it is; to place the criminal on the pillory of public opinion; to aid those who need aid." 
               "Yes, and should you not be happy in such a work?" 
               "I might be happy, if each step was one of triumph-if success crowned every effort. But I see death and misery all around me,-I see Justice sleeping, while her shadow is used to veil crime which should be punished-I see a dark and fearful cloud overshadowing the very liberties of my beloved country!" 
               "What do you mean, Ernest?" 
               "I scarcely dare tell you, Harry,-yet it is full time that every American knew of America's danger-aye, and was prepared to meet it!" 
               "Don't speak in enigmas. I believe I love my country as well as you do; and God knows my life is devoted to her. Come, explain yourself, or I'll think that there's a leak in your upper story!" 
               "To save myself from that imputation I will. You are aware that there is a secret society composed entirely of Americans, are you not?" 
               "Yes, I have heard that you belong to it-in fact, your works have ever advocated it!" 
               "Yes, they have, Harry, and for the past year with pen and voice, by day and by night have I worked for it, aye, and prayed for it, to the neglect of my own soul, perhaps. And for what have I done this? For my own personal benefit? No; for in a republican land like this, the first cry raised against such an association would be that it was anti-republican-narrow-minded and ungenerous, and to advocate such, would tend to make me unpopular, would tend to injure my pecuniary interest." 
               "True, some mighty reason must influence you in your course-for, to speak candidly at the first glance, such a society does look rather anti-republican! You know that our land is professedly the home for the oppressed-the refuge for the exiled victims of tyranny!" 
               "Yes, and if all who came here, came as exiles of tyranny; if all who came here came merely to share in our freedom-to partake of the blessing which WASHINGTON left us, and the bounty which God Almighty in a fruitful land showers upon us-if they came here as brothers and friends, I would perish before I would join an association that should exclude them, or any men who, as men, sought freedom and freedom's blessings! But I have discovered more than that in the flood of emigration from tyranny's shore. I have learned that a Power that is growing weak on the worn-out and too-long used soil of Europe, is being transplanted here-is even now growing up rapidly in the garden of liberty, and if we are not on our guard, every native flower in that garden will soon be crowded from its birth-place, and the intruders will have taken root to its utter exclusion!" 
               "Don't be so mysterious, Ernest. A little less poetry and figure, and a little more sense, as I remarked when I told a lady that I liked roast beef better than I did whipped syllabub!" 
               "You know how the Jesuits are dreaded in Europe?" 
               "Yes, they've been driven from several kingdoms!" 
               "And all of those who have been driven from there have found a home here! They were driven from there because their only aim was power-power! They have ever sought to link church and state together, so as to gain power. Through the confessional, through the means of wealth gained by every contrivance which human ingenuity could invent, they have aimed at gaining power! From the time of the infamous Borgias to the present hour, they have been gradually losing ground in Europe, but since the time of the revolution, which made this country free, and it began to develope its boundless resources and natural wealth, they have been gradually working their way into a foothold here. Here, on this soil rendered holy by patriot blood, they mean to erect their strong-hold; here, by the means of wealth, policy and deep cunning, they mean to gain such a position that they may obtain a complete control, and then, when once at the helm of state, when once freedom is chained by the gilded bonds they are preparing for her-America will be no more-and 'Rome will howl'-for here Rome will be! You smile, Harry, but would you smile if I told you that now in the United States there is a secret society composed of this very class numbering over one million souls; that it is led and governed by priests and bishops; that its wealth is immense, and that already it begins to exert an immense influence upon our elections; and that in some of our highest offices of state its members have already occupied places?" 
               "Is it possible! Are you sure you are not mistaken?" 
               "In the existence of the society I am not mistaken! In the extent of its numbers I may be somewhat, but it is very extensive. It has branches in every city of the Union. It is composed of foreigners of every clime, and I fear that for its own evil purposes it has deluded some of my own countrymen. With the German it has one name, with the Irish another, and so with each nation, yet all are under one head. To counteract the baneful influence and terrible designs of such an association, have I advocated and urged and labored for the establishment of American societies, secret like their own, that we can in secret lay our plans to meet and controvert designs made by them in secret to prostrate that which it cost our forefathers so much to establish!" 
               "I cannot feel satisfied yet, Ernest. Can you not give me some proof of the intent of the Jesuits, to make this country their stronghold?" 
               "Yes, I think I can. You have seen or heard of the struggle which they had to have their own version of the bible used in our public schools, and which through their influence has caused the separation of school monies, so as to give them schools exclusively for themselves. Into these schools they use every exertion to get American children, so as to shape their educations to suit their own purposes. They have established colleges all over the Union, where, by placing Professors of superior learning and tact, and offering great inducements, they procure the opportunities of educating many of the scions of our first families, knowing that these very young men will yet be Statesmen, and be likely to hold a powerful sway in our national government ernment. And they shape the educations of these young men to suit their aims, bring around them a thousand pleasant influences which, while they lull suspicion, are used as chloroform to hide an operation of a deep and perilous nature, perilous only if it fails. 
               "Knowing the influence of woman-they have established convents for the education of the daughters of our first families. Were not the daughters of a person who has often been spoken of as a candidate for the Presidency of this Union, a man who yet will be its President, or I am no prophet, educated at a convent; and to gain a strong-hold upon him and his, was not one of them induced to take the veil, and become a nun, that in time she may be a 'Lady Abbess,' and use a powerful influence under the command of her Superiors, for in that order there is no equality?
                
               "And do not the Jesuit priests, in the confessional and out of it, exercise an influence over the political actions of those who believe that these men can pardon all earthly sin, or condemn them to hell by refusing absolution? Do not these Jesuits encourage the emigration of the ignorant people whom they can sway, aid in getting them here and forming exclusive colonies of them in different parts of the country? Do they not flood the land with their cunningly written books? Have they not even named a Bishop of their own sect, and spoken openly of him for the highest office which he could get in the state where he dwelt? Is there nothing in all this?" 
               "There must be something!" replied the young officer, seriously. "But, Ernest, it cannot be that Americans-that the descendants of the exiled Puritans and persecuted Huguenots will blindly permit such a stupendous danger to grow up in their midst!" 
               "They will, unless awakened in time, to that danger! They have a foe to deal with, which, in centuries of existence, has gained experience; which, in turn, has used every weapon, hypocrisy and openness; fire, sword, wealth and cunning; stopping at nothing which tended to advance its interests." 
               "But it is the same which, by persecution, drove them bleeding from the shores of Europe!" 
               "True, but it comes here in another dress. It has a mask on- though it is a devil, it tries to look like an angel, and it's only when the mask is torn off that they will recognise their old tormentor, and much I fear that it will retain the mask until it has them all in its power!" 
               "What do you think would be done, were that society to get into power, were they once to have our government in their hands?" 
               "What would be done? Rather ask what would not be done! I'll paint a picture for you. It is well known that the Jesuits have ever been the bitterest foes of liberty; they have fostered tyranny; their very religion is despotic in its tyranny. They sway the souls and bodies of their followers. They gain the upper hand in this country by filling it with their foreign slaves, and by corrupting our citizens. Then this continent becomes one vast empire of Popery. A crowned POPE, with temporal power as well as spiritual, sits at Washington, or the place that was Washington, for it will then be re-christened Rome! Liberty will have fled shrieking beyond our borders. The vast resources of this land will rest in the hands of those who can away an army of five millions of enthusiasts, men who know but one will and one way, and that the will of one of the successors of Alexander Borgia!" 
               "It cannot be-if it can, it must not!" muttered the young soldier. 
               "God in heaven prevent it!" responded Cramer. "And yet, I see the cloud of danger in the horizon. Everything seems portentous of a storm! The Jesuits cannot hold their own in Rome, or in Europe; by every ship, societies of their monks and their nuns arrive. Show me a town, or a village of any note in the Union, where they have not planted their standard!" 
               "Well, I fear that you are more than half right, Ernest; but are you not in personal danger from those pests of society, the gamblers and drunkard-makers, whom you strike so sharply in your writings?" 
               "No; they are rendered cowardly by their guilt; they cannot harm me. Like a dog that is beaten, they howl at my blows; like the same animal growling when a bone is snatched from him, they grumble when I rescue a victim from their fiendish toils; but that is all!" 
                
               "Well, Ernest, every one to their taste, but I wouldn't like to stand in your shoes. I have physical courage enough for a soldier, but to carry on such a warfare as you are waging, requires a moral courage which few are willing to exercise, even if they do possess it! But I see that you spare no offenders; you speak as fearlessly of judges, police officers, and prosecuting officers, as you do of thieves and gamblers!" 
               "Why should I not? aye, why not be even more severe upon such of them as prostitute their offices for gain; or swayed by self-interest, either wink at crime, or else by their decisions and conduct, openly encourage it?" 
               "But you cannot hope to accomplish such reforms as you propose, alone, and it is against the spirit of the age to aid you!" 
               "Of course, I do not expect to do it alone; but I do expect and hope to call the attention of the PEOPLE to these things, and by so doing, to enlist others who are more able and talented than I, in the cause of right. Your experience has taught you that in every attack, some one must take the lead in a charge; some one must dash forward to encourage the rest!" 
               "Yes, Ernest, but almost always have I seen such leaders fall, either wounded or slain!" 
               "But the rest had started, their blood was up, they pressed on to avenge the fallen, did they not?" 
               "Yes, that is true!" 
               "Then am I willing to be a martyr in the cause of Right, if by my fall I can only cause others to press on in the holy warfare. If I can make Americans look to the interests of their country; if I can cause men to look for themselves into the wrongs which oppress them; to themselves meet the insidious foes which, under the guise of "friends," are eating up their very hearts, then am I willing to perish!" 
               "You're a strange fellow, Ernest; what caused you to take up these ideas?" 
               "Three things. First, my natural disposition to resist wrong and oppression, a disposition which runs in the blood of my family, for, upon nearly every battle field of the Revolution has the blood of that family been shed. Second: long thought and experience; for young as I am, I have battled with life's troubles since my earliest childhood, and whether I willed it or not, have been forced into a man's place to do a man's duty, though in years but a boy. Last, but not least, I entered into my present course through the influence of a dream!" 
               "A dream? What do you mean? I myself, chose the military profession in consequence of a dream." 
               "When were you born, Harry?" Asked Cramer, abruptly and anxiously. 
               "On the 20th of March, 18-; but what of that?" replied Hilton. 
               "Much, much!" responded Cramer. "You say that you had a dream. Did not an old man appear to you once, offering you a choice of your course through life?" 
               "Yes, but who told you that?" 
               "No one; but he who appeared to me in a dream, which has certainly influenced my course of life, told me that he had another to watch over, one who was ushered into this black and stormy world at the same moment as myself. I, too, was born on the same day with you; but tell me your dream?" 
               "It is short. After I left college, to which you wouldn't go, you remember, my father placed me with lawyer B-, to study, intending to have me adopt the legal profession. Well, I found it a deuced dry and sleepy business, and often fell asleep over Blackstone and Chitty, as I sat in the back office in Nassau street. One afternoon, when engaged in that way, I dreamed that an old fellow came to me, and told me that I could continue that life, and eventually rise to eminence, or, I could become a soldier, and win great renown as a warrior, for the harvest of warriors was at hand. After I woke up, I went to thinking, (something new for me, in those days,) and thought drove law out of my head, and cockades and glory into it. So I concluded to face about, become a soldier, and take the chances of winning a grave instead of promotion!" 
                
               "You preferred that, to eminence as an orator, a lawyer, perchance as a statesman?" 
               "Certainly, what do lawyers live upon but the troubles and quarrels of others?" 
               "What else do soldiers live upon, only they add killing to the trade!" said Cramer with a smile. 
               "But, Ernest," replied the soldier, "we kill decently; we don't rob a fellow of all that makes life worth having, and then worry or starve him to death!" 
               "That is true. Law is not always justice, and too often it is twisted into nets to enslave innocence; nets which those who are guilty can either evade or break!" 
               "Well-well, Ernest, do you drop your philosophising, or I shall get the blues. I've paid you my first visit-but I've a call to make this evening on a family to which I have a message from an absent friend, and I wish you'd go along. It is early, and a walk will do you good; 'twill put color in your cheeks!" 
               "I wish you'd excuse me, Harry, I've an address to prepare!" 
               "Oh, let your address go to thunder, for to-night; come, I want to talk to you and we can talk as we go along, and besides if she hasn't altered amazingly since I left, you'll see one of the prettiest girls in the city!" 
               "That reason, Harry, would have no influence with me, for as I told you before, beauty is nothing to me. I do not intend to divide my mind, or separate it from the one great object I have in view, therefore, I cannot marry. I will not be a libertine, therefore woman's beauty can be no more to me than the flowers which grow by the way-side, which I cannot turn aside to pluck. I can admire them from a distance, but a passing glance is all that I can bestow on them." 
               "Well, take the walk with me, at any rate. You certainly can afford to tear yourself away from labor for one evening for an old friend like myself!" 
               "Yes, Harry, yes, you are right. I was selfish, and besides are we not brothers of birth-time!" 
               "Brothers at heart, at any rate!" said the young soldier, lighting a cigar while the other prepared for the walk. "I'll tell you," he added, "as we go along, a story about this same old man who seems to take such an interest in our welfare. I saw him in Mexico-saw him when I was wounded at Cherubusco!" 
               "Strange, I cannot believe in SPIRITS, yet it seemed so real when I saw him!" said Cramer. 
               "Ernest, it was real! I am satisfied of it-but let us go, it is late and we'll talk as we go along. I want you to see 'La Belle Serena,' as I used to call Miss Serena Clifford, the Belle of Japonica Place!" 
                
               A lovelier woman than Serena Clifford never trod God's footstool. Her features were not classical, but yet they possessed a combination of different beauties, which united in rendering her countenance most expressive-most angelic, most transcendently lovely. Her forehead was of a medium height, slightly oval, and white as alabaster-and the dark, arched eye-brows lay like delicate pencillings above her dark, blue eyes-eyes, large, liquid, meltingly soulful. Her face was full-on her cheek lay the lovely carnation hue of health-her ripe lips were of the cupid-bow curve, her round fair chin slightly dimpled. Her figure, of medium height, was full, rather fuller than fashionable belles like theirs to be, but it was faultless. Her hands and feet were small enough to have pleased a Byron-her air was at once graceful and dignified. 
               At the moment when I choose to introduce her, she was alone in the splendidly furnished parlor of her father's mansion, in Japonica Place. She was seated by a centre table, engaged in reading, no other person being in the room. Her lovely head resting on one hand, which was supported by her elbow resting on the table, and her ringlets of dark, glossy brown hair hid her hand from view. As she read-you could gather from the varying shades which came and went upon her countenance, that her very soul was communing with the author, that she felt what she was reading. And further to evince how deep is her feeling, we have but to watch her a little while. See, as she pores over the work, how her pinken nostrils distend and close, how her curved lip quivers, how her voluptuous bosom heaves
                   under its covering. Ah-what so touches her-she bursts into tears-and for long minutes with her head bowed over the work, sobs and weeps bitterly. But hark-a ring, loud and quick, as by some familiar hand, at the bell of the street door, startles her, and she springs to her feet, hastily wiping her eyes. 
               Scarce a minute passes, but she is calm before the parlor door is opened. Two gentlemen enter. Hear her musical voice, how clear yet how richly soft and sweet, as she steps forward with extended hand, and exclaims: 
               "Oh, Mr. Hilton, I am so glad to see you! I heard that you had arrived, but did not flatter myself that you would favor us with so early a call!" 
               She had spoken these words before she appeared to observe that Hilton had company, but as she saw a person with him, and also noticed that he was a stranger, she colored slightly and drew up her stately form which had been bent forward to meet her visitor. 
               "Permit me to introduce my friend, Mr. Cramer, to you, Miss Serena!" said Hilton quickly, to relieve her from confusion. 
               "Mr. Ernest Cramer?" she asked quickly, as she bowed gracefully. 
               "Mr. Ernest Cramer!" replied Hilton, smiling at the earnest manner in which she asked the question. 
               "I am very happy to see you, sir," said she, again bowing. "Pray be seated, for I wish to scold you!" 
               "In what, fair lady, have I been so unfortunate as to offend you?" asked Cramer. 
               "Come here, sir, and look," she said half seriously, half playfully, advancing to the centre-table and pointing to the work she had been reading, which still lay open. "Do you see those leaves?" she continued: "They are wet with tears; I have been crying like a child over the fate of that poor sewing girl!" 
               "You flatter me, lady-highly honor me in even reading one of my poor productions; but if I have been so fortunate as to interest you in the fate of a pictured one of our city unfortunates, I am doubly flattered!" 
                
               "Don't speak of flattery, Mr. Cramer, or I shall think you are fishing for a compliment." 
               "I could receive no higher compliment on earth, lady, than that conveyed in the tears of sensibility"-replied the young author, and then, blushing at his own temerity, he added-"How like, you ladies are to the lovely flowers with which God beautifies the earth. As they are fresher and fairer after being washed by the gentle rains of heaven or the mild dews of evening, so is your sex loveliest after tears have but a moment passed away and given place to the sunny light of a smile." 
               "I have always heard that poets were flatterers, and now I believe it!" cried the lady, and then, with ready tact, to prevent his making a reply, she turned quickly to his companion, and cried; "How is your health, Mr. Hilton? I suppose I should call you Lieutenant now, though. Have you entirely recovered from your wounds?" 
               "Quite, from all, except one that you gave me in the heart, before I left, with a glance from your bright eyes!" said the soldier gaily. 
               "There is little danger to be apprehended from that!" she replied-"soldiers, if report speaks true, have pin-cushion hearts, and can manage to have an hundred such darts as you allude to fastened in them, without any trouble or inconvenience!" 
               "A slander on the service, I assure you, fair Serena! Soldiers are not of a coquettish nature at all. They are the most constant beings in the world!" 
               "Constant to the glorious flag of their country, I will admit, but in love, fickle as the breath of the whirling wind!" 
               "Are you an American, Miss Serena?" asked Ernest-"I supposed from your accent that you was-" 
               "A foreigner," said the lady, finishing the remark for him. "I am a daughter of England's rocky isle, but I love to see and speak of the noble patriotism displayed by those who serve under our National Standard. I glory in hearing and reading of the gallant deeds of our heroes, who under the noble-hearted 'Rough and Ready,' and the gallant Scott, have covered themselves with glory-given new brilliancy to the stars of Freedom's flag. I love my country dearly -love it as the soil of my birth, as the home of my fathers-but next to it I love this country!" 
               "You have long lived here, have you not?" 
               "Since I was a mere child. I have but a dim recollection of my native land-still I love it, love it and venerate it, as a child does a mother from which it has long been separated-love it as the poet must have loved his country, who wrote my favorite song, 'Erin is my home,' one of Dempster's sweetest ballads!" 
               "It is a sweet song-would I be exacting too great a favor in asking you to sing it?" said Cramer. 
               "Do, Miss Serena; it is long since I heard softer music than the drum and trumpet!" added Hilton. 
               "I am not so fashionable as to require much pressing," said the lady, moving with inimitable grace to the piano. After a rapid prelude, which shewed her complete mastery of the instrument, in a full, melodious voice, which gave clear utterance to every note of the music, she sung the ballad, 
                      
                        "Oh I have roamed in many lands, 
                        And many friends I've met; 
                        Not one fair scene, or kindly smile 
                        Can this fond heart forget; 
                        But I'll confess that I'm content, 
                        No more I wish to roam; 
                        Oh steer my bark to Erin's Isle, 
                        For Erin is my home! 
                     
                      
                        If England were my place of birth, 
                        I'd love her tranquil shore, 
                        And if Columbia were my home 
                        Her freedom I'd adore; 
                        Tho' pleasant days, in both I pass, 
                        I dream of days to come; 
                        Oh steer my bark to Erin's Isle, 
                        For Erin is my home." 
                     
                  
                
               For a minute after she struck the last note on the piano, and the last word left her lips, both the gentlemen sat silent and spell-bound, as if listening for the deep thrilling echoes of her voice, reverberating through their very souls. Cramer was the first to speak. 
               "You must be very fond of music, lady. You seem to feel it: I never heard that ballad sung with such exquisite pathos before!" 
               "Much depends upon the poetry, Mr. Cramer, which if it is feeling in itself, is sure to produce feeling in the singer. Permit me to sing another song-the music is simple, composed by myself; but you will excuse that!" 
               Again the lovely fingers ran over the piano; but the prelude this time was sad and slow. What was Cramer's pleasure and astonishment when he heard her commence one of his own little poems, and in a voice tremulous with emotion, she gave an expression to the words which he never before believed they possessed. She finished, and he was about to speak, when more company was announced, and to his pain, he found that he could no longer claim so large a share of her attention; for Hilton, like a sensible fellow as he was, had, when Ernest was conversing with her, been apparently very intent in overhauling the pages of Godey's last Magazines, which lay upon the table as another proof of the good taste of Miss Clifford. But Ernest's surprise was still more enhanced to see with what ease and grace she divided her attention with her company; how she managed to mingle her conversation with each, so as to interest and please all, doing it too without any apparent effort. 
               In spite of the overplus of company, the evening passed rapidly and delightfully, and it was eleven o'clock before Ernest thought it was nine. With an effort, (for he could have listened to her all night) he reminded Hilton of the hour and the distance they had to walk, and arose to leave. 
               The lady accompanied them to the door, and as Ernest stood with the lady's hand in his own, he fancied he felt a slight pressure, as she said: 
               "Do visit us again, Mr. Cramer,-come soon, and often; you will always be welcome!" 
               He raised that fair hand to his lips and kissed it. He would have done so if death had been the penalty. He could not help it. But the lady did not rebuke him: she only blushed till her fair brow looked like a snow-bank reddened by the setting sun. He replied to her that he would feel deep pleasure in calling early, and left the house, with his very brain whirling with the various thoughts which passed through it. 
               "Well, Ernest, my boy, what do you think of La Belle Serena?" cried Hilton, as soon as they were fairly out of ear-shot of the door. 
               "How old is she?" was the singular reply of Cramer. 
               "Twenty one, or two,-but that's a strange answer to my question. What do you think of her?" 
               "Are you engaged to that lady?-answer me seriously, Harry, for on your reply depends my future happiness: if you are engaged to her, say so, and I have visited her for the last time!" continued Cramer, earnestly. 
               "No, I am not, Ernest, but from your manner I think you would like to be. Well, good luck to you! She is the noblest specimen of a woman in the world; and you seem to have made an impression already. The pen is indeed more powerful than the sword with woman!" 
               "May it always be so! What has women in her nature that is consonant with deeds of rapine and slaughter?" 
               "I don't know," replied Hilton: "but why does woman ever love and admire valor?" 
               "Because the brave are ever most ready to defend her and her rights; because noble Valor and gentle Love are, singular as it may seem, twin spirits!" 
               "Well turned, by my honor! But even yet you haven't answered my question: What do you think of Miss Clifford?" 
               "I think that in beauty of person she has no equal living-that she is as accomplished in mind, as feeling and eloquent (if I may use the expression) in soul, as she is lovely in person. Harry, do you believe in love at first sight?" 
               "If I had always been a disbeliever in that principle, I should have been converted to-night. I can see, without looking, that you love Serena!" 
                
               "Yes, deeply, wildly, devotedly; with a love which can never change! Oh, Harry, from this hour I have entered upon a new life! A new world seems to open before me, and she is the only star which lights it up,-yet how beautiful, how brilliant it is!" 
               "Well, I am glad of it, Ernest. I love you as a brother, and I could not wish you a greater happiness on earth than that of wedding Serena Clifford. She is pure, high-minded, devoted and affectionate. A nobler woman never vowed before God's holy altar to love and cherish a husband. I hope you may win and wear her!" 
               This conversation is becoming dull to you, I fear, reader, so we'll stop our ears, till the two young gentlemen reach the boarding-house of Cramer. 
               As they stood before the door, hand in hand, ready to separate for the night, Cramer asked: 
               "What are you going to do with yourself to-morrow night, Harry?" 
               "Nothing in particular: do you wish so soon to renew your visit of this evening?" 
               "No; I am already engaged: I have an address to deliver before a branch of the American Order to which I belong. I should like to have you hear it: it is upon a good subject,-America as it was, is, and may be!" 
               "But I do not belong to the Order: can I gain admittance?" 
               "Certainly. We do not fear to explain our principles to the world. It is only necessary for an American to hear and understand them, to gain him as a convert to our cause. Only our business and regular official meetings of the Order are secret: when an address is to be delivered, explanatory of the principles, we throw wide open our doors, and invite all, native and foreign, to hear truths which cannot be controverted! You will go with me to-morrow night, will you not?" 
               "Yes, Ernest, I will, with pleasure. I want to hear you speak But it is late; I will bid you good night!" 
               "Good night! God bless you, my dear fellow!" 
               And thus the March-born separated. 
                
               Ernest stood for a few moments on the door-step, gazing at the tall, manly form of his friend as he passed up the street, and then turning to the door, gently ringing the bell. The door was opened by sweet Lizzie Laurel. 
               "Why, how late you are to-night, Mr. Cramer!" she exclaimed "You've not been courting I hope?" 
               "Why do you hope I haven't, Lizzie?" 
               "I didn't say I hoped not; but-but I thought you always said you never meant to get married! But tell me, have you been to see a lady?" 
               "Yes!" 
               "A lady that you mean to marry? Tell me, Mr. Cramer, have you really been courting?" asked the young girl, with an earnestness which evinced that she felt an interest in his reply. 
               "No; I have not been courting: only been spending the evening with the gentleman you think so handsome-Lieutenant Hilton!" 
               "He is handsome; but there is something more than mere beauty required to win a true woman's love!" said Lizzie, in a serious tone. 
               "You speak as if you were a woman, Lizzie!" 
               "I am almost sixteen, Mr. Cramer!" 
               "Well, I forget that I am depriving you of your rest. Good night, my sweet friend!" said Ernest, taking a lamp from the hall table and passing up-stairs. 
               "Good night, sir," responded the fair girl. "If you dream tonight, dream of me, please, and tell me the dream in the morning!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               READER, come with the into an immense hall in the Eastern past of the city, in that particular quarter known as "The Island," where the "Manhattan Boys," as the noble mechanics of that part of New York call themselves, live. The walls of the hall are festooned around with flowers. At the upper end a large American flag is stretched across, over a raised platform, on which a small desk is placed. A chair is behind the desk, but it is as yet unoccupied. But every seat in that vast hall is filled; and by the doors, and in the aisles between the benches, stand masses of human beings. The hall is filled with men and women, the hard-handed, the true-hearted men; the chaste, patriotic women of America. 
               There is a murmur near the door. It increases, and in a moment Ernest Cramer, accompanied by Lieutenant Hilton, is seen moving along the aisle toward the platform at the upper end of the room. Across his breast he wears the glorious tri-colored scarf of the Order, around his neck is the starry collar of another Order of Americans to which he belongs; and girdled to his waist is the "SHIELD" which betokens him to be a member of the highest branch yet instituted of the "United American Mechanics." And now his eye brightens, as he glances over that vast multitude, and sees by their regalia, how many of the noble brotherhood are there to greet him. As he passes on, they almost deafen him with applause. Cheer upon cheer rings on the air; the floor shakes with the stamping of more than two thousand feet. 
               Another moment, and he is on the platform, trembling and blushing like a young girl rising in school to recite a lesson before visitors. He has seated Hilton, and now advancing to the desk, he lays a roll of paper down before him. It is the address that he has prepared for the occasion-for he dares not yet to trust himself without notes before an assembly, for fear he may break down. 
               All is silence. The multitude wait, almost unbreathing, to hear him open. Pale, pale as a corpse, he stands before them; and looking with a timid glance at that forest of eyes, in a deep, tremulous voice he commences to speak; but as he goes on his manner changes, and he gains confidence. These are his words:- 
               "Standing upon the shore of Time's unfathomable ocean, holding the magic wand of history in our hand, we bid the dark waves which cover the past, roll back and reveal the traces of the march which they have hidden! Endued with this power, we stand where hoary Time stood more than three hundred years ago. We have a power of vision, which, like the eye of day, extends far and wide-North, East, South and West, grasping leagues and acres, millions on millions, at a glance. 
               "Up from the heaving bosom of the blue Atlantic, as some fair virgin gracefully rises from a crystal bath, slowly and full of majesty, comes the fair Aurora, daughter of the morning and herald of the day;-quick and rapidly, like some fond youth in swift pursuit of her he loves, follows the burning Sun, full of fire, casting the red flush of beauty on tree and flower-on river and lake, on land and sea. 
               "And, as he lights up the scene, what do we see? A vast continent! It pillows its head upon eternal snows! Its heart is wrapped in everlasting verdure; its feet are bathed in the pulse-warm, per fumed waters of the flowery, glorious South! Nor spire, nor palace-dome, nor pyramid, greets the far-extending view. But mountains which are wreathed forever with the clouds of heaven-tall monuments of the Almighty's power; vallies, teeming with fruits and flowers; lakes and rivers sparkling in the sun, as silver-scaled fish leap from the glad, peaceful waters; forests, where the wild deer and girl-eyed gazelle find covert,-where the king-bird of Freedom builds its lofty nests; plains, shaken by the thundering tread of the mighty mammoth, or quivering beneath droves of fatted buffalo; meadows, as vast and as level as the great lakes of the North,-these all meet our eye: then wherefore ask for the puny monuments of man, mere mockeries, as they are, of God's stupendous handiwork? 
               "Yes, alone we gaze upon this continent-this land as yet unknown-as yet without a name! But 'tis not unpeopled! No; behold on yonder lake, that light canoe darting across its glittering waters, while sturdy arms dip flashing paddles in the limpid wave. Why hastes it so towards the shore beyond, where, beneath the shadows of a mighty oak, a fire burns clear and bright beside a tent of untanned skins-skins rent from beasts of the wilderness. See a dusky form, beautiful in every limb, graceful, and all womanly, bending over the very verge of the waters. Her tiny feet are kissed by the ripples which roll up playfully among the pebbles on the shore. Her right arm points to the coming bark; her left encircles a laughing image of herself, a babe beautiful as the bud beside the full-blown rose. The swift boat nears the shore-it touches the strand. A manly form, tall and straight as an Apollo, leaps from the bow; then breast to breast and lip to lip-the nature-wedded children of the land have met. They are happy. Temperance is their birth-right; for God has given them naught but the pure crystal of the mountain stream to drink. Honest; for each man is as wealthy as his neighbor: the land, the water, the birds of the air, and the beasts of the forest,-all are equally the property of each and all of them. Industrious: so far as Nature teaches; for he wins by his labor food for substance, clothing sufficient for comfort. And what more does man need? Loving, because Nature has her sway; no cold form, no freezing etiquette-no barter and sale of the heart's affections, has he, to chill his soul, and shut out the sunlight of feeling from his heart. 
               "And from the frozen North, where rainbow-hued peaks of ice point their glittering spires high toward the throne of God, to the luscious South, where balmy Summer sleeps upon a couch of flowers,-far and wide, see a people all like this. Honest, affectionate, industrious, temperate, happy. God, in his beneficence, has given them all they need-given to them that which he gave to his first-born of EDEN. No plague with pestilential breath sweeps off their beautiful and brave; no fire-water-
                     poision
                     poison
                   sucks up the heart's-blood of the noblest and best; no curse, like envy, avarice, or ambitious tyranny, has yet settled like a bird of evil among them. 
               "Their religion is simple: they have no 'saints,' but, taught by Nature, they worship Nature's god, in Nature's language! When they die, they go up to the hunting grounds of the Great Spirit. 
               "And yet we pity them-pity them, because they are SAVAGES!-They know not how to make rum with which to steal man's mind away, and shatter it in its tenement. They know not how to build churches where only one creed may come to worship God-where they only are brothers, who hold one belief! They know not how to build prisons or scaffolds; have never twisted the hangman's rope, or sharpened the headsman's axe! They have not learned to build palaces, and to place mortals there to be worshipped as gods, giving them power of life and death, wealth which should be the property of all; crowns, jewelled with human tears,-robes, crimsoned with human blood! They have not learned to rob their brother man of God's first, dearest, holiest gift-Liberty, blessed Liberty! 
               "They have not learned to make laws which will shield error and wrong, and cause Right to suffer; laws which frown on the poor and smile on the rich-nor have they lawyers who feed and live and breathe only on the proceeds, the fruits, the air of trouble, animosity and litigation! They do not starve the widow, or rob the orphan, or murder unborn babes! 
               "And yet we pity them, for they were savages, 
                     the the
                     the
                   happy people of a vast, beautiful, gloriously beautiful, land! 
               "Time's surges roll yet a little higher on the shore. Stepping back from the overwhelming wave, we gaze once more out upon the ocean. Ah! what see we there? A sail? Yes, with snowy canvas bellying to the eastern gale, and gay pennons fluttering like tongues of glad tidings in the air, a ship ploughs through the main. The dusky people of the land gather all wondering on the shore. They see a group of people on the deck of 'the great Canoe,' who shout and dance with joy, as she nears the shore of the unknown land. Clad not in skins, but garments of a finer texture and gayer hues-their skins mingling in color with the lily and the rose, the untaught children of the land think that they are Angels of the Great Spirit But see-a cloud of wreathed smoke bursts from the side of the Great Canoe, preceded by a lurid flash of lightning, and followed by a tone of deafening thunder! Then the untaught savages cast themselves upon their faces, murmuring, "THESE ARE GODS-THESE ARE GODS!" 
               "But soon-too soon, alas! do they learn that these gods are not only mortals, but mortals as frail and far more sinful than they. These gods bring the poisonous fire-water among them; disease and pestilence soon follow in their wake; they teach them to make the thunder and lightning they have seen and heard, subservient to hands bent on murder, dripping with slaughter! They tell them how to worship God as Christians do-if they will not, they scourge, they torture, they burn them at the stake. They encourage dissensions, they rob them of their maidens, they debauch their wives, sisters and daughters-they chain their men to slavery and labor; if they resist, they slay them, burn their wigwams, take their lands. 
               "But this is no longer an unknown land, it is called AMERICA! A man who, robed in scarlet, sits on the golden throne in the far East, a mitre on his head, and 'the keys of Heaven's gates' in his hand, raises the cross of Jesus, and says, 'The new-found land is mine, it and all its wealth, its gold and its silver, its fruits and its vines; it and all its people!' And, generous as a beggar who gives away millions, he tells the King and Queen of Spain, 'I give ye this new land, send thither warriors and priests to subdue and conquer it, and to convert the wicked savages, the horrible heathen, to our kind and gentle Religion. Take with ye the tortures of the Inquisition, and use them if they will not be converted, and give to the Church their gold and their silver; stretch ye them on burning beds of fire-hang, shoot, stab, burn, destroy; do ye all this to teach them the Christian religion!' 
               "And was not he, the holy Pope of Rome, obeyed? Shade of Montezuma, answer! Yes; the savages were soon taught how God-like was the white man, how pure and how heavenly were his attributes, how, like a meek and holy follower of our Saviour, Jesus, he taught the precepts of Him whose walk on earth was peace and good-will to all men-who died to save all mankind! 
               "I dare not gaze long on this picture, on the first settlement of America by the whites. No, for groans rend my ears, blood dims my eye-sight; tarried I to gaze, indignation, burning with passionate fire in my breast, would bring a curse to my lips, a curse on those who found a paradise to make of it almost a hell!
                
               "Roll on, then, thou dark wave of time; hide all this again from our view, and standing farther up on the shore, and nearer to the deep waters of eternity, we will again look over the land. The savages, thinned off by disease, pestilence, and war, cut off by the rum-poison, and slain by those who coveted their lands, have receded like their forests and their game; dried up before the light of civilisation as the dew-flowers of morning perish beneath the fierce blaze of the noonday sun. Back, back with aching hearts and blood-stained tracks, step by step, their faces to the foe and their backs to the sun, have they been forced; back beyond the first range of mountains from the sea. 
               "And their places are filled, filled with a hardy, fearless, rude, but industrious, race. As the first conquerors return to their masters laden with gold, the injured and oppressed of Europe hear with wondering joy of this new land; the Huguenot, the Puritan, the persecuted call it the Canaan of their hopes, and fly to it for refuge from tyranny. But the tyrants claim the right of sovereignty here. They send their Governors, their tax-collectors, and their soldiers, and here they heap burdens on the people heavier than before. They will not endure that even here in the wilderness, Liberty shall find an abiding place! Wrong upon wrong they heap upon the people! The people have borne and foreborne, until forbearance has ceased to become a virtue, when not to resist were a crime, a black and damning crime. A Cicero, an American Cicero, arises, and cries,-'An appeal to arms and the God of Hosts is all that is left us! Why stand we here idle? Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take-but as for me, give me liberty or death!' 
                
               "From shore to shore, on the hill-top, and in the valley, in the city and in the forest, that cry was echoed. A people which, in a few years, had grown into a nation, arose, and, with one accord, cast off their iron manacles of tyranny. Led on to victory by a WASHINGTON, guided by the wisdom of a Hancock, an Adams, a Jefferson, and a Franklin; supported by the patriotism and chivalry of a Gates, a Schuyler, a Marion, a Lee, a Wayne, a Lafayette, and a host like them, they struggled through a long and terrible war, struggled through it all into the sunlight of a glorious triumph. Freedom was theirs, freedom of thought, of speech, of action, and, above all, the light-diffusing freedom of the PRESS! A UNION of nations, of independent, self-governing States was formed. Each golden link was welded by interest, by love, by the brotherhood formed in danger, by that necessity for Union, which gave birth to this thought: 'UNITED WE STAND-DIVIDED WE FALL!' 
               "And where is the recreant who would wish to see one link dropped from this glittering chain of strength and glory? Where is the traitor knave who'd lift a sacrilegious hand to break that which God hath united, which man must not sever! May its pulses freeze, its nerves wither, and all its joints stiffen in death, while its marrow turns to dust! Where is the false prophet who dares to foretell a disunion of these blood-brightened links? Palsied be his tongue to the very root, ere he can croak out one word of disunion! 
               "No; while Washington is remembered there never can be a dissolution of this Republic! None but time-serving demagogues, who'd, Arnold-like, barter their country for place and for gold, would ever aim at such a result, and thank Almighty God-hemp is a native production, and, if traitors proceed to extremities, the limbs of our native oaks will bear a new fruit, a fruit which men will despise, angels turn away from, and fiends from hell will claim as their own! 
               "Having hurriedly, and all too briefly for the subject, glanced at America as she has been, we will now look at her as she is. From the original thirteen, we have gained in number until we can count thirty States united under one head, yet governed by the wishes, and votes, and opinions of all! From a population of between three and four millions at the time of the Revolution, we now number over twenty-three millions. The first railroad ever built in this country, if I remember correctly, was built in 1832 or 4, was a small experimental track of only fourteen or fifteen miles, laid from Carbondale to Honesdale, in the coal regions of Pennsylvania; and now there is nearly or quite seven thousand miles of railroad finished in the United States, and in constant use. Many, yes, most of my hearers can remember when steamboats were invented, and when Fulton and Fitch were considered mere schemers, men more fitted for the mad-house and straight jacket, than anything else. Yet now we see every lake, sea and river in our land, (except the political stream known as Salt River,) navigated by our steamers. Every sea in the whole world is whitened with the sails of our commerce. We are wealthy, more prosperous, and less indebted than any other nation in existence. We are at peace with all the world and 'the rest of mankind,' but we are ready for war, and able to cope with any power that chooses to try a hand, and would not be much alarmed if they hitched teams, and came on three, or four, or half-a-dozen at a time. We could, feeling rather hungryish, whet our appetite on Austria, take France for a light breakfast, England for an early lunch, and dine on Russia, take China for tea, and use the rest up for a light supper! There's no exact means of finding out what we couldn't do if we tried, for with an American to try, is ever to succeed. Like the veteran soldier, Miller, when asked at Niagara, if he could storm a hill occupied by the enemy, and take a battery which was pouring death and destruction into the ranks of our patriot army, an American looks at an obstacle, says 'I'LL TRY,' charges boldly, and, as Miller was, is VICTORIOUS! 
               "We are in possession of every civil and religious liberty which man can wish for! We are enjoying all the blessings of a progressive age! Education is diffusing light over every part of our land. The anvil, the plough, and the loom, are busy everywhere. Industry is flourishing, labor is becoming more and more appreciated, and as the laborer begins to learn and use his moral as well as physical power, so does he begin to gam more adequate rewards for his labor. The employer begins to feel that labor is equal, aye, more than equal to capital, and that 'the laborer is worthy of his hire!' 
               "The working man begins to kick against the spurs with which aristocratic wealth would goad him on in the old accustomed track. The day which will find that all men are free and equal, appears to be rapidly approaching, and welcome, thrice welcome will it be when it comes! 
               "It is useless for me to dwell longer on what we are! The intelligence of this thinking and kind audience needs no prompting on this subject; you are all as well aware as I, of the present condition of our dear, our heaven-blessed country. I will spend a few moments in an imaginative glance at the prospective career of America. We will think what she may be. And there are two views before us-one bright, glorious and cheering as the sun's pathway when no cloud obscures the sky; the other dark, threatening and clouded, ending in night, the night which enveloped Rome and Greece-the night which is worse than oblivion-the night which darkens over the ruins of nations! 
               "If in union, progressing steadily onward, unswayed by the traitorous demagogues and black-hearted knaves, who, for selfish purposes and fanatical aims and designs, would involve the North and South in troubles which would break the whole; if, regardless of those who would Iago-like, set husband against wife, and brother against brother, and deluge our happy land in blood, our Ship of State, with a true and trusty crew and experienced 
                     helsman
                     helmsman
                  , sails on, she will meet and safely breast the storm which lowers in the horizon, gaining more and more power and influence, each day, until she will be able to dictate terms of friendship to every land under the sun, to defy all monarchs, and extend a helping hand to any and all people who seek freedom on their own soil. To say to a Hungary, Strike, brother, strike boldly, we will back you; to tell a struggling Italy, Fight on, and faint not, America to the rescue, you shall be free! To say to Canada on the North and Cuba on the South, Come, children, to the arms of a mother ready and willing to adopt ye and treat ye as her own! 
                
               "And we have not only the home-traitor to guard against and fear-but the emissaries of foreign governments who are jealous of our National progress or fearful of our power. With a keen and prophetic eye WASHINGTON scanned the future, and solemn indeed was his warning-spoken in these words: 'AGAINST THE INSIDIOUS WILES OF FOREIGN INFLUENCE (I conjure you to believe me, fellow citizens,) THE JEALOUSY OF A FREE PEOPLE OUGHT TO BE CONSTANTLY AWAKE; SINCE HISTORY AND EXPERIENCE PROVE THAT FOREIGN INFLUENCE IS ONE OF THE MOST BALEFUL FOES OF REPUBLICAN GOVERNMENT.' 
               It is against that influence from abroad and here in our midst, fellow citizens, that we must work. We must keep the reins of our government in our own hands. Had Lawrence, the lamented Lawrence, had the Chesapeake manned with AMERICANS, he never would have had to cry, 'Don't give up the ship!'-no, had she been manned with an American crew instead of the motley gang, more than two-thirds foreigners, who possessed neither bravery nor discipline-she would have either gone down with the star-spangled banner nailed to the mast, or have come in Ironsides-fashion, with a conquered foe in tow. 
               "I say we must man our Ship of State with Americans, with Native born Americans, with the Sons of Sires who fought, bled and died for the establishment of freedom-with those whose feelings, whose family histories, whose hopes and very existences, are linked to the Union as the soul is to the body. It is well, and generous and just, to give a home on the farm which our forefathers left us, to the homeless and landless who come from abroad-but I deny their right to take up lodgings inside of the homestead, to assume the management and control of our blood-bought heritage-a heritage which their fathers strove with might and main to wrest from our fathers! Shall we forget this? shall we, though we permit the sons of the murderers who slew the martyrs of our Revolution, to come amongst us, shall we permit those who have been reared under the shadows of tyranny and educated with dogmas of monarchy and aristocracy, to come here and dictate and govern us? No-God, and the memory of the past forbid it! 
               "We must, fellow Americans, stand on our reserved rights-our officers, our guards, our sentinels must all be American, or else the dark future which I pictured will overtake us and destroy us as a nation. We cannot be too American-we cannot too closely follow the example and precepts of Washington! It is the duty as well as the privilege of the American to take an active part in forming his government-it is in the power of Americans, forgetting partizan animosities and political creeds, to make America, essentially what Washington modelled her. Will you not, each and all of you, friends and brothers, do your part? Each of you possesses a certain degree of power and influence-where would our floods and swelling rivers come from, were not each drop of dew and rain collected and joined together-use that influence wisely and unitedly, and America will yet be the Queen of the earth, the centre star of a glorious Constellation of UNIVERSAL LIBERTY!" 
               Still and breathless had they hung upon that young man's words till the last moment-till he had uttered the last word. Then as the storm breaks with resounding force from the cloud, shout upon shout arose from their lips. The young orator who commenced so timidly, had warned as he went on till his face flushed up, till he forgot the audience-saw and felt only the subject of which he discoursed. And the hearts and the feelings of his audience went with him. 
               For several minutes after Cramer ceased speaking, his warm-hearted audience continued cheering, and again he stood before them blushing and timid, oppressed by their very kindness, for the excitement which had given him boldness as he spoke on the subject nearest and dearest to his heart, had passed away, and again his nature shrunk from the notice which he had gained. And to add to his confusion, a lovely little girl of seven or eight years of age was seen tripping towards the platform, bearing a wreath of tri-colored flowers-the colors red, white and blue. Amid continued cheers she handed him this, which he raised to his lips, but dared not place on his brow. At the same moment the audience struck up that song so dear to American hearts, the "Star Spangled Banner," and as the last note echoed through the room, Ernest moved with his companion toward the door, shaking hands with numerous friends as he went. 
               Springing into a carriage, which waited at the door, the two young men were whirled rapidly from the pleasant scene. 
               "Ernest, I envy you!" said Hilton, as soon as they were clear of the crowd. 
               "Envy me, Harry? What is there in my life for you to envy-you, who have no care, no sorrow!" 
               "The triumphs, the applause-the heart-homage of the honest and good, as I have seen it rendered to you to-night, Ernest!" 
               "It was not me that they applauded, Harry. It was the sentiments which I uttered!" 
               "But you were the author of those sentiments, and as the author and the utterer, they applauded you!" 
               "And do you think it is for this applause that I am laboring?" 
               "No, Ernest, no! I give you credit for a higher and less selfish aim. I know that it is for your country and your countrymen that you labor, and not for yourself." 
               "You but do me justice, Harry. But you have seen one portion of the duties which I have voluntarily assumed-now will you go with me to-night and witness another?" 
               "Yes, with pleasure, Ernest. I feel interested and would follow you anywhere, even as a disciple in your glorious cause!" 
               Cramer smiled, smiled doubtingly, sadly, as he replied, "You had best see all that I have before me, ere you think of being a disciple of mine!" 
               The carriage very soon drew up before the boarding house of Cramer, and the two young men alighting, it was discharged. 
               "Come in, Harry; I shall have to change my appearance a little before we start for our next port of destination!" said Cramer. 
               They entered the house, and proceeded up-stairs to Ernest's room. Here the latter divested himself of his beautiful regalia, and, to the surprise of Hilton, commenced rapidly to disguise himself. First, with a hand which seemed used to the business, he dipped a sponge into a liquid with which in a moment he darkened his fair complex ion to a brunette hue. Then with a compound of henna and pomatum he darkened his eye-brows and eye-lashes, until the dark-blue eyes beneath seemed almost black by the deepening shadows over them. Then combing back his luxuriant brown hair, he placed a natural wig of glossy black hair over it, and touching the parchment foundation of a silky pair of moustaches with a gum-arabic solution, he placed it upon his upper lip, where, drying in a moment with the heat of the skin, it adhered firmly, and no one looking at it would have believed the moustache false. 
               Then passing into the bed-room, he remained a few minutes, and, when he re-appeared, his personelle was so altered, that Hilton scarcely knew him. His dress was rich and genteel, but of a foreign cut. His form was partially enveloped in a magnificent Spanish cloak-a cap of black cloth, drooping over his right ear with the weight of a silken tassel pendant from its peaked crown, covered his glossy wig, and fitting firmly on his head and over his brow secured the hair in its place. On the finger of his ungloved right hand a magnificent diamond glittered. A heavy guard-chain of curiously linked gold was worn around his neck, but this was all the jewellery visible on his person. 
               "How do you like my disguise?" he asked, smiling at Hilton's surprise. 
               "By Jupiter, it is perfect! I'd not believe it was you, if I had not been present at this transformation. But where are you going-why do you so disguise yourself?" 
               "I am going where my life would not be worth a dime if I was recognised!" replied Cramer-"I am going to a fashionable gambling hell, where a set of gentlemanly thieves and desperadoes collect nightly to ruin such unfortunates as may have been lured to their hell; a set of villains whom I have made my desperate enemies, by my repeated exposures of them and their villanies!" 
               "But why do you go there? What is your object?" 
               "I have two! First, to save a young man who belongs to a bank in a neighboring city, and who has been entrapped by these villains, who have, I fear, robbed him of thousands, which he cannot repay to the bank he has taken it from; next, to see if there are any new victims in their clutches! To combat such evils as these, I must have a knowledge of those who are most prominent in them, and it can be gained with certainty only by personal observation!" 
               "But can you get admittance to this place, easily?" 
               "Yes, I have a note of introduction; and, by the way, you must forget that you are with Ernest Cramer for the rest of the evening, and address me as Senor D'Albro-I am introduced as a gentleman of wealth from Cuba. You speak Spanish, do you not?" 
               "A little-learned some from the Senoritas in Mexico, aided by a Spanish grammar and dictionary!" 
               "Well, speak to me in Spanish My English words will be few and broken. But another thing-do you ever play?" 
               "I have played a little. But I am not addicted to gambling: I learned the folly of it while playing cards when a student; for I could never keep a cent about me. I gambled away my pocket money, my watch, and my very clothes! But I stopped long since, and I shall never indulge in the dangerous amusement again!" 
               "I am glad to hear you say so, Harry. I was hesitating to take you with me; for I know what alluring temptations are spread before a young man in a gaming room, and I would not for worlds lead you where you would be tempted into a course which will ruin any man in the world." 
               "Ought I not to disguise myself?" 
               "No; it is not necessary. Though you are known, well known, thanks to your heroism, you are not yet known to the black-legs as a friend or acquaintance of mine; and your appearance there will be hailed with delight. And you will find yourself surrounded by respectable people: by judges, lawyers and men who rank high as gentlemen and statesmen! The company will be select. When we are there, I will point out a few whose rank and position should elevate them above the possibility of such associations. I will show you a judge who is breaking the statute laws of the State, which he has sworn to administer and support; I will show you an ex-legislator who helped to pass the very law which he is breaking. I will show you merchants, aldermen, and, if he should happen to be there tonight, as he was when I was last there, I will show you a bishop of the Church of Jesus, in disguise, worshipping at the devilish shrine of Mammon!" 
               "Ernest, is this possible?" 
               "It is true, Harry Hilton! I never lie! I scorn a liar, for he is coward who dares not always tell the truth!" 
               "Well, let us go. I am anxious to see this strange adventure through." 
               "I am ready, but first oblige me by taking these little articles of jewellery along, merely in case we might need them!" said Cramer, opening a drawer in his writing-table, and handing Hilton a small pair of single-barreled rifle pistols, gold mounted, and of exquisite workmanship. As he did this, he also took out an ancient-looking "colt revolver," which he examined, and then deposited in a side pocket, mentioning that it was an "old friend which had proved true in former times." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE deep tone of the Trinity Church clock had just struck twelve, as Ernest Cramer, disguised and to be known for the evening as Senor D'Albro, accompanied by Lieut. Hilton, turned into Broadway, and passing along it a few hundred paces, paused before a large four-story building which stood directly in front of the City Hall. 
               "Is this the place?" asked Hilton in a low tone. 
               "Yes, this is it," replied Cramer. 
               "Is it possible," asks the unsophisticated reader, "that a gambling hell can exist in your finest street, fronting the very halls of Justice?" 
               Is it possible? Yes; and within sight of those very halls where crooked law and prostituted justice is administered oftener far than Justice in her purity is felt, there are not one, or two, or three, but twenty, openly notorious gambling hells! Hells kept open day and night, yawning wide for victims all the time. Do you doubt me? Go ask the Chief of Police, the Mayor, the District Attorney, and they dare not say these things are not so! How often has the writer of this tale given names and numbers, and exposed these dens-how often has he pleaded with those who could do it if they dared, to break them up, and by so doing is it that he has gained enemies who gloat over his incarceration, and who, wine-bibbers and wine-lovers as they are, would rather drink the warm life-blood spouting from his heart, than to sip the choicest Falernian that ever was pressed from the grape. But avast from comments! To the story. 
               Cramer rung with three quick, sharp pulls at the bell-knob of the door before them. In an instant it was opened, and the two, entering, found themselves in a small ante-room, or hall, where a tall, fine-looking negro, dressed in a suit of livery, awaited their orders. 
                
               "Dis is ze casa of Senor Manton, eh?" asked Cramer, speaking in a foreign accent. 
               "Mr. Manton lives here: your cards if you please, gentlemen!" said the negro, speaking in a tone as smooth and measured as if he was addressing an audience of refined hearers. 
               "Take zis lettare to Senor Manton, for me," said Cramer,-D'Albro, I mean-handing a note to the servant with a five-dollar gold piece on top of it. The negro exhibited two very white picket fences of ivory back of his thick lips as he gazed for an instant at the glittering gift, and then, after bowing nearly to the carpet, hurried up-stairs with the note. 
               "They do up things in style, here!" whispered Hilton: "servants in livery, &c.!" 
               "Wait till you get up-stairs; you'll open your eyes then!" said D'Albro, with a smile. 
               At the same moment steps were heard at the head of the stairs, and in an instant the negro was seen descending, followed by a tall, slender, very gentlemanly looking, middle-aged man, who, as his eye fell on the party, quickened his steps, and exclaimed: 
               "Senor D'Albro, I am delighted to see you at my poor quarters. The note of introduction from my statesmanic friend, 'the God-like D.,' as his friends call him, is to you a carte blanche to my house-to you and your friends. You are at home here; welcome to everything-to everything (here he smiled most wickedly) but my mistress!" 
               "Very much I thank you, Senor! If you please, I shall make you know my friend, Lieutenant Hilton!" said Cramer, in his foreign accent. 
               "What! Lieutenant Harry Hilton, who fought at Cerro Gordo, El Punta Nacionale, and was wounded at Cherubusco?" exclaimed Mr. Manton. 
               "The same; at your service!" said Hilton. 
               "Jupiter, Mars and Venus! Sir, you are very welcome!" cried the proprietor of the establishment. "You and your friend are very welcome! Walk up-stairs." 
                
               Without hesitation the two young men followed him, and in a moment they were standing in the second story of the building. It was a large, finely-furnished front parlor, where they stood; but not a sign appeared to them that they were in a gaming hell. The wall was hung with handsome paintings, mostly landscapes and historical pieces,-fine old paintings which had come into the hands of Cornelius Manton at one time and another for but a tithe of their real value. A sideboard stocked with a glittering display of decanters and bottles stood on one side: in the centre a rosewood table, without a cloth, was covered with periodicals, papers, and recent publications. The floor was covered with a costly Brussels carpet, and the furniture was at once neat, exquisitely neat, but costly and rich. 
               No persons were in this room when they entered, except a very smart looking, bright mulatto boy, of about twenty years of age, who was not dressed in livery, but exhibited a very good figure clad in a fashionable suit of black. He had been sitting down, but arose as they entered, and stood in a respectful attitude near the sideboard. 
               "Gentlemen, what is your favorite beverage?" asked Manton. "We must moisten our new acquaintance in the generous and heartwarming eau de vie. What do you prefer, Senor,-wine or something stronger? And what is your favorite, Lieutenant? I have brandy older than either of us, Champagne of the 'Cordon Bleu,' wines of the Rhine, Moselle, and even a flask or two of that choice and rare article, Lachrymae Christa!" 
               "Drink of the same you see him drink, and sparingly at that!" said Ernest to his companion, quickly, in Spanish. "He will not drink drugged liquor, but we might!" 
               "We will join you in your favorite drink; I have heard of your good taste!" said Hilton, bowing to the gentlemanly gambler. 
               "I always drink brandy at so early an hour as this!" said Manton. "Fred, break the seal of a bottle of 'Rachau's 1791.'" 
               The well-dressed, good-looking servant obeyed, and while Ernest and Hilton examined the paintings, uncorked the bottle, which, with three glasses and a water pitcher, he brought to them on a silver salver. 
                
               "You will not have to dilute this!" said Manton. "I drink it pure: it is as mild as oil!" 
               "And yet strong as fire!" said Hilton, with a smile. "I know what old liquor is; it is like the pale, meek-looking steel of Damascus-very deceiving!" 
               Notwithstanding the pressing invitation of Manton, Hilton drank very lightly, and his companion barely touched his glass to his lips. 
               Manton, with a look of restrained impatience remarked: 
               "You do not seem to like this liquor, gentlemen? It is said to be fine flavored." 
               "It is much good, Senor Manton; but so early in de night never do I drink much! I drink more, soon, replied Cramer. 
               "Well, suit yourselves, gentlemen. As you Spaniards say, Senor D'Albro, my house is at your service. By the way, will you walk above? Supper will be ready in the back room at one; in the meantime, visit my upper rooms!" 
               The two young men bowed an assent, and followed Manton up to the third story, where a blaze of light from a large chandelier revealed to them a brilliant and a singular scene. The first room which they entered was large; its ceiling was hung with a series of voluptuous French prints, and it also had its sideboard loaded with wines and liquors. A roulette wheel was placed at one end of it, and as they entered it was being turned by a little, curly-haired, dark-complexioned man, whose rougish black eye twinkled as the banker by his side raked in the winnings at every turn. Around this stealing machine was quite a large party of well-dressed, genteel-looking men, who were so absorbed in the game that they did not appear to notice the new comers. 
               "He whom I seek is not there!" said Cramer to Hilton, in Spanish: "we will pass on!" 
               In the centre of the room were several small tables, upon which cards and dice both lay read for use; but the main attraction was at the Faro table at the upper end of the room. Before this about a dozen gentlemen were seated, and in deep silence the absorbing, infatuating game was going on. Hundreds of dollars, at times thousands sands, lay on the table, awaiting a single turn of a card. At times a sigh, again a low muttered curse would be heard from the lips of the losers; but those who gained said nothing, but madly doubled their stakes, tempting Miss Fortune, the coquette, rather than Fortune, the dame. 
               Cramer glanced over those who were there assembled, anxiously; but he whom he sought was not there. They stood and watched the game a few moments. 
               "Do you not play, Senor?" asked Manton. 
               "Not wiz your American games: I not know zem! I look, I see, by and bye I learn." 
               "We can manage to get up a game of Monte, if you wish. That is a national game of yours!" continued the gambler. "Walk in the back room; our company is more select there, and less in number!" 
               They passed into a smaller room, back, where another faro table was placed, and before this about a dozen respectable-looking, elderly gentlemen were seated. As the two young men entered, a quick glance was exchanged between Manton and his two employees, behind the table; a look which told them as plain as words-"I'm tickling a couple of fine trout; fling out the bait!" 
               They approached the table. The cards were dealt from a silver box, by a tall, fine-looking man, whose dress, without being gaudy, was rich and genteel. And as he is partner of Mr. Manton's, we will give you his portrait. Fred. Herbert is a trifle over six feet high; full chested, well formed. His features are regular, complexion florid, and he has but one peculiarity. His small grey eyes are the sharpest and brightest that ever you gazed upon: they seem to pierce right through you-to read your thoughts, and examine the depth of your purse at a glance. 
               "I'm glad to see you, Manton!" said Mr. Herbert: "the bank is in bad luck: will you take the deal for a turn or two, and see if Fortune will treat you as she does me!" 
               "I have two friends here, Fred., to whom I am showing our establishment-Senor D'Albro and Lieut. Hilton." 
                
               The gambler bowed low and replied-"Perhaps they will enter the game?" 
               "They had better not till after supper. It will soon be ready." 
               "He is not here; he must be above!" said Cramer in a whisper to Hilton. "We must get up there!" 
               "What does your friend remark?" asked Manton of Hilton, not understanding Spanish. 
               "He is struck with the splendor of your establishment, and the variety and extent of your means of amusement. He says that he has never seen anything like it in his country!" 
               A smile flitted over the face of Manton. "He has not seen my 'sanctum' yet!" he said. "I have yet another room to show him; but it is one to which none but my most valued friends, and best patrons are ever admitted. Few ever pass above this floor; but come, we will go up there. I hope he will be better pleased still!" 
               Again they ascend the stairs in the next and last story. Here a servant, dressed in livery, waited at the door, which, it appeared, was locked; for he took a key from his vest, as his master approached, and unlocked it. They then stood in a small ante-room, which was unfurnished, and dimly lighted with a single jet of bluish gas. The floor was not even carpeted; the wall was merely whitewashed; all was cold and gloomy in appearance. A door was visible on the right, but it was closed. Yet the sound of voices, and the tinkle of glasses, was heard beyond it, signifying that there were some who had passed through that chilly ante-room. 
               Manton advanced to the door and gave five rapid taps in succession with the heavy seal ring which he wore on his right hand. As he did this, the door flew open, and never had either Hilton or Cramer gazed upon a scene more dazzling. The room was not large, but it was ceiled with mirrors which extended from the floor to the top of the room. The furniture was all of rose-wood, inlaid with a 
                     mosiac
                     mosaic
                   work of pearl and ivory. The floor was carpeted with a gorgeous web of silk; a most singular chandelier, or candelabra, reflecting from the mirrors, made the room dazzlingly light. It was formed by a twining serpent, plated with gold, which seemed to be stretching ing its open mouth down from a spiral coil in the centre of the ceiling overhead, which was painted in fresco style, to represent a forest. From the eyes and open mouth of the serpent three streams of gas gushed out, and with their blaze entirely illuminated the apartment. 
               But the eye of Ernest Cramer did not glance at the beauties of the room-it fixed itself in an instant on the flushed face of a young man who stood at the sideboard, and filling a tumbler half full of fiery liquor, drank it off at a draught. 
               "He is there, Harry, he is there!" muttered Cramer. 
               But Hilton did not hear him. He was so struck with astonishment, that he stood by the door, speechless. 
               "Senor D'Albro and Lieutenant Hilton, gentlemen! Honorable gentlemen and trusty friends!" said Manton, as the company glanced around toward them. 
               "Most wilcome!" exclaimed a little, dapper, middle-aged gentleman, whose accent was tinctured with the unmistakeable but rich brogue of Erin, the gem of the sea. "Peter, git sates for the gintlemen!" 
               The servant to whom he spoke hurried forward to obey, but both Hilton and Cramer declined, expressing a wish to see the game which here was progressing at a faro table of such magnificence as to require a description at our hands. It was like the rest of the furniture, made of rose-wood, inlaid with pearl-and the cloth, whereon the betting cards were spread, was of crimson satin, fringed with gold. The dealer dealt his cards from a box of pure gold, and the checks which were used by the players were mother-of-pearl, and the least one was marked ten dollars, while others, still, were marked $50, $100, $500, $1000. 
               The game played here was evidently a high one. 
               But the reader is now requested to glance at the man upon whom Cramer's eyes have been fixed ever since he entered the room. He is young, he cannot be thirty yet. His dress is fashionable and tasty, his manner, apart from a present nervousness, haughty and aristocratic. 
               "Good evening, Mr. Hagerman!" said Manton, approaching him as he returned from the sideboard to the table to resume his game "How is it, to-night? Are you likely to break the bank to-night as you did the other evening?" 
               "No-curse it, no! I am behind over fourteen thousand-if the cards don't turn I will have to quit, for I'm nearly drained!" replied the young man, at the same time reaching over a $500 check, and laying it on a card! 
               "Is this your pledge to Mary?" whispered a deep voice in his ear. 
               Turning round as quick as thought, and pale as a snow-drop in the face, he cried-"Who spoke to me?" 
               "No one spoke. Your card loses!" said Manton, who stood near. 
               Hagerman looked from face to face of those around him; all seemed absorbed in the game, and no one seemed to look at it with more eager interest than Senor D'Albro, who stood nearest to him. 
               Again he placed a check on the same card-this time it was for $1000. And as he did so, again that deep whisper was in his ear, a whisper which none but he seemed to hear-"Henry Hagerman, beware! you are breaking your pledge to Mary!" 
               Trembling in every limb he turned again, and was about to speak. 
               "Your card wins, Hagerman!" cried Manton. 
               "Let it lay, it will win again!" said he in a tone so fierce and singular that those nearest to him even looked up from their game. 
               "If you thing so, why don't you increase the stake?" said Manton in a bantering tone. 
               "I will-there are five one thousand dollar checks!" replied the young man with a forced calmness. 
               "That money was stolen!" came upon his ear in the same deep, low whisper. 
               "Did you speak to me, sir?" thundered the young man, red as fire from anger, and trembling in every limb, turning short around upon D'Albro, who seemed intent upon overlooking the game. 
               "Que dice? you speak, Senor, to me?" said he, looking up with a glance of innocent surprise. 
               "No one spoke, Mr. Hagerman; watch your game now, you may lose that little pile!" cried Manton. 
                
               "No, by Jupiter it wins!" cried the young man as the card turned up. 
               "It is a pity you hadn't bet all your pile, isn't it!" said the gambler coolly, as the banker paid over the checks. "You'd better pocket that now and not try your luck again on a single card!" 
               "That card will win once more, and I'll lay every dollar of my winnings, every dollar I have with me!" cried the young man, infatuated with his temporary change of luck. 
               "Do not-you'll lose!" was again heard in that whisper. 
               "Mind your own business, whoever you are!" muttered the young man as he drew out a pocket-book and emptied it of its contents, laying the whole on the same card. 
               "My business is to save you-forbear! For Mary's sake, forbear!" again was uttered in the warning voice. 
               The young man did not reply, he watched the jewelled hand of the dealer as he again took hold of the box and drew the card which was to determine who should possess the sum of thirty thousand dollars which lay staked on a single card. And, as if he would play with, and torture, his victim, like an experienced angler with a trout on his line, which he delays to kill, the dealer looked at Hagerman's pallid face, quivering lip, and straining eye, and with a very slow movement drew off the card which concealed that below which was to decide the matter. As the latter was seen, the young man bent forward to look, then gasping out, "My God-I am ruined!" he fell backward, and, had he not been caught by the extended arms of Cramer, would have been stretched senseless on the floor. 
               "Do not trouble yourself, Senor!" said Manton, quietly. "Here, Peter, take Mr. Hagerman into the inner room, and bathe his head with cold water. He'll come too in a few minutes. He made too heavy a risk. He was foolish to lay so much money for the third time on one card!" 
               Oh, how much Ernest Cramer yearned to tell that vile gambler what his heart, his indignant heart, felt at that moment. He had detected the signs passing between the dealer and Manton; he knew that the money had been won by trickery, and he knew that the wretched loser had been duped and led on from step to step till he was on the verge of disgrace and ruin; for he had been playing then and there with money which he had taken from the vaults of the bank of which he was an officer. 
               As the unfortunate young man was borne from the room, Manton drew a splendid watch from his pocket, and, noting the hour, said to the company-"It is our supper time, gentlemen: suppose you adjourn for a half hour-the game will be all the pleasanter after you have taken a bite, and tasted a glass or two of generous wine!" 
               "Who is that tall, pale, severe looking man?" asked Hilton, as he glanced at a man who had played deeply, but silently, and very heavily, who arose with the rest. 
               "A man who professes to be a Minister of God-a Jesuit, whom I suspect to be the head of the secret order of which I spoke to you last night!" 
               "And who is that red-faced, jolly-looking gentleman with a white neckcloth. He is not a Minister also?" 
               "No; he is only a Judge." 
               "And he dares to come here?" 
               "Certainly: the company is very select, isn't it?" 
               "My God! let us go!" said Hilton, nervously. 
               "Not till after supper. A hasty retreat might create suspicion; besides, I must see poor Hagerman safe out of this hell to-night. I promised his wife to do so, and to try to save him." 
               "His wife? Do you know her?" 
               "She spent an hour with me this afternoon, explaining his situation, and her fears concerning him; and her last words were, as she went off weeping-'If you can only save him, sir, from ruin, I will pray to God to bless you-pray to my dying hour for you!' She is a pure, noble, devoted woman, and I want the prayers of such as her. I have faith in them." 
               "Come, gentlemen,-come to supper!" said Manton, approaching them. He had been holding a brief conversation with His Honor the Judge,-perhaps talking over the last trial. 
                
               The party left the room; but the dealer and his banker companion remained to count their winnings. * * * * * * 
               It was only an hour later. Escorted to the very door, by the bowing Manton, came Senor D'Albro and Hilton. 
               "You will come again, gentlemen, I hope!" cried the gambler. "Senor, when next you visit me, I will get up a nice little game of Monte, expressly for your amusement!" 
               After the door closed, they passed a little way down the street, and then paused in the shade of an awning, which projected from a jeweller's store over the pavement. 
               "We will wait here a moment: there is his carriage at the corner, with the driver asleep on the box. I wish to see him started for home; for he will go elsewhere, if I don't use my influence. He never goes home when he stays out to play, his wife informs me; but passes his mornings in a den of pollution, or rather a palace of infamy, which is considered such 'a necessary evil' by our city authorities, that it is permitted to exist, openly and notoriously, next door to a Police Station House! though a nuisance to the city, a most dangerous snare to strangers, and a positively unlawful establishment!" said Cramer. "And for fear that I might be recognised, you'll oblige me by taking this cloak-change caps with me. Hold this wig!" 
               It was but the work of an instant for Cramer to take off his wig and moustache, then with his cloak and cap changed, and his coat buttoned up so as to conceal his jewellery, he was entirely altered from the appearance of the Senor D'Albro, who had honored Mr. Manton with a visit. He had scarcely done this, and bade Hilton stand closer in the shade, so as not to be seen, when a man was seen to stagger out of the same door through which they had so lately passed. It was Hagerman. He reeled past, and with a curse awoke his sleeping driver. 
               "Take me to Leonard street!" he cried, hoarsely. 
               "Hold! your road is not in that direction. Your house is across the East River!" cried Cramer, stepping to the side of the carriage which the young man was entering. 
                
               "Who are you that dares to interfere with my orders, or be a spy upon my actions?" cried the young man, thrusting his hand into his bosom as if to draw a weapon. 
               "A friend to your injured wife; one who knows how much money you have lost to-night, and where it came from!" 
               "My God!" gasped the wretched man, "am I known-exposure and disgrace will follow!" and he sank almost senseless on the seat of his carriage. 
               "Henry Hagerman," said Cramer, earnestly-"go home now-go home, and do nothing rashly; you may yet be saved! Go home, and to-morrow evening I will call on you as a friend to try and aid you!" 
               "Who are you-tell me who you are?" 
               "A friend to Mary! Go home to her, and tell her I sent you!" Then speaking to the driver, Cramer added-"Mr. Hagerman wishes to go home, driver! Home, do you understand?" 
               "Yis, sir, be me faith I do, and its glad I am, for I'm as slapy as a baby afther dinner!" said the driver, who had not been able to hear what Cramer had spoken to his master, for his tone was low. 
               After the carriage drove off, Ernest rejoined his companion. 
               "Shall we go home now?" asked Hilton. 
               "As you please," said Cramer, "but if you can spare an hour longer, I would like to show you a scene to contrast with the picture of wealth and crime which we have just been gazing at. My visits are not confined to the wealthy, altogether!" 
               "At your service-we may as well make a night of it!" 
               The two young men crossed Broadway, and passed through the Park into Centre street; and in less than three minutes after they left the locale of wealth and aristocracy, they paused in a narrow street which opened eastward from Centre, before a wooden building, which looked old, rotten, and miserable, too much so to be inhabited with safety, not to think of comfort. The street was deserted-no, not quite, for a couple of large lank hogs were promenading in quiet dignity through the thick and slimy mud, enjoying the evening, the only time, thanks to our "vigilant police," and the hog-catchers, that these gentry can enjoy a quiet promenade. 
                
               The house before which they paused was dark; its windows had been boarded up, because boards in the long run are cheaper than glass, for they don't break so easy, nor require constant repairing There was no sound to be heard from it, and, as from Ernest's look and motion when he paused, Hilton thought he was about to enter, he asked: 
               "Is this the place? Surely, this old shell isn't inhabited!" 
               "It is, and by not less than three hundred persons!" 
               "Ernest, what's the use of telling me that! Three hundred people? Why, that number couldn't find room to stand up under that roof!" 
               Cramer smiled as he replied: "You will see, directly. We must get a light!" 
               Passing on and turning a corner, they were in a small square-or rather an opening in an irregular triangle, which Hilton at once recognised, for he said: 
               "We're in the Points, Ernest! What the deuce do you want here?" 
               "I'm going to Pat Mullins' grocery for a candle and some matches!" replied the young author. "We shall need them in the visit we are about to make!" 
               "But, groceries are not open at this hour!" 
               "They are never closed except in the daytime in this region!" said Cramer. "Here the night is literally turned into day. The sound of music, of dancing, of oaths and shrieks, of laughter and of anger, may be heard all the night long; but when the day dawns, and the light of the sun comes down upon the reeking filth and rotten garbage, then the revellers, the thieves, and those who have been 'up and doing' their deeds of darkness, in darkness, slink away to the inner recesses of their dens, and all is quiet until darkness again mantles the scene! Every day is still as Sabbath here, for trade is full, and few people pass through these filthy lanes and alleys!" 
               And to verify the words of Cramer, Hilton had only to look around him. Lights were seen all around them-the sound of fiddles and tamborines, the shuffling feet of dancers, the curses and the shouts of men; the shrieks and the laughter of women; all kinds of noises, all manner of sights, all sorts of smells, and such as you can see, and hear, and smell, in the "Points" only. 
               Hurrying along the western side of this square, they reached a corner, where they turned into a grocery, which was filled with negroes and dirty-looking whites, most of whom were patronising the "bar," purchasing gin at two cents a glass. This seemed to be the article in which the grocer dealt most largely, for a few huge barrels of a rummy look, a flitch or two of exceedingly slender bacon, a few strings of onions, and some Dutch looking bread on a back shelf, were all the stock visible to the eye. 
               As Ernest and his friend entered, the eye of the gentlemen behind the bar glanced quickly upon them, and he seemed to recognise Cramer, for his very red face opened in half, as he grinned a recognitory smile, at the same time displaying a row of grinders which would have done excellent service as a rag-picking-machine in a paper-mill. Mr. Mullins wasn't a very handsome man, not even for a Greek. He was about five feet high, and fully as broad as he was long. He might have been forty or fifty years of age, he might have been older; it would be hard to tell how old, for, as the reader knows, when anything is "preserved in spirits," after it is once thoroughly soaked, it just about holds its own, and don't change for years, and so it was and is, with Pat Mullins. 
               When Pat saw our two friends enter, he set down a decanter which he held in his hand, and waving his customers back, cried: 
               "Stan' out o' the way there, gintlemen nagers, don't yez see the nobs aforeninst yez?" 
               Then, smiling again, with a smile which produced an absolute divorce between the northern and southern continents of his head, he said, addressing our friends: 
               "Glad to see yez, gintlemen! It's not often the likes o' yez does Pathrick Mullins the honor o' patronising his establishment, though a dacenter grocery isn't to be found in the neighborhood! Will yez taste a drop o' somethin' extra this avenin'! I've Mountain-dew, and four dhollar Brandy, and Jamaica. What wud ye like, gintlemen?" 
                
               "A couple of candles and a box of matches, if you please, Mr Mullins!" said Cramer. 
               A look of disappointment, denoted principally by an immediate union of both parts of his face, showed that Mr. Mullins's hopes of disposing of twelve and a half cents' worth of bad liquor were lost; but when Cramer threw a half dollar down, and said-"Be quick, Pat, never mind the change!" the smile reappeared, and he hurried to get the candles. 
               In a few moments, the two young men had again re-entered the narrow street, where the wooden building before alluded to, stood, or was propped up, and, entering a narrow, filthy alley, at one side of it, Cramer paused to light a candle. It was necessary to do this, for it was dark as Erebus, and they could not but dread tumbling into some noisome pit, or yawning cellar. The air was close and noisome as the atmosphere of a cemetery receiving-vault, or a Potter's field. They picked their way along until they reached the entrance of the building, about mid-way of its length, where a door had been, but it was now off the hinges. As they entered, a flight of dangerous looking stairs were seen in front of them, and a door opened on the right and left, on the first floor. 
               "We will go up-stairs, first!" said Cramer; "we will look into the lower rooms as we come down!" 
               The stairs trembled and creaked as they went up, and Hilton, who was not used to such passages as Cramer was, stepped hastily and nervously, dreading each moment that the frail structure would come down under their weight. A few steps brought them to a second landing, and here also doors opened to the right and the left, but a turn of the staircase shewed that there was yet another loft in the building. 
               "One flight higher, and then I'll show you a picture!" said Ernest. 
               Upon reaching the head of the last flight of stairs, Cramer turned without hesitation to the right; and pushed open the door with his foot, for it had neither bar or latch. 
               "Hilton, come in!' he said-"don't be alarmed-there is no necessity of using any ceremony here."' 
                
               "I should think not by the way you act!" said the soldier, as he followed within the door. 
               But he did not speak when he entered. The air was hot and stifling, steaming with the breath of over thirty human beings, all crowded into a room not more than twelve feet square, in which neither fire, light, nor a single article of furniture could be seen. Beds had they none, save a few bunches of shavings, which had been torn from the bon-fire-making 'prentices of some carpenter. A blanket, ragged and dirty, could be seen here and there, wrapping a wretched mother and three or four children, which, like hovering chickens, crept close to her to keep from freezing; then there were others, who lay upon the bare and dirty floor, with no covering save their tattered clothing-no pillow, no bedding, almost naked. There were but three or four men in the room, and these were helpless from age, of cripples. The greater part of the occupants were children, of the class which on a rainy day infests our street crossings, and a few women, who, in the early morning and dusky evening, are seen flitting from house to house, stopping at each area at the kitchen door, to ask for cold victuals. When the glare of the light fell sicklily athwart their gaunt bodies and haggard faces, some of them half arose, and looked up with fearful eyes towards the intruders-then sunk down again sleepily beside those who snored on in happy forgetfulness of life's miseries, but one or two yankee-like, ever "awake for trade," rose, and stretching out their thin bony fingers, said-"Penny, 'f'u please, sir!" 
               Hilton's hand was on his pocket-book, which would have been emptied amongst them in a moment, had not Cramer prevented it. 
               "It would be waste," said he, "to give them much. A few sixpences properly bestowed, would be of more use to them, and quite as thankfully received, as a shower of bank bills. See, I come prepared always, when I visit such places!" 
               As he said this, Cramer drew a handful of pennies and six-penny-bits from his pocket, and scattered it upon the floor, and amid the din of the scramble which followed, he withdrew. 
                
               "Heavens!" cried Hilton, as they again stood upon the stars, "is this real?" 
               Before Cramer could reply, a shrill scream was heard from the room opposite to that which they had entered-a shrill and fearful cry repeated rapidly, in a tone which thrilled through their very hearts-"Murder! Murder! MURDER!" 
               With a bound which extinguished his light, Cramer sprang to the door, close followed by Hilton, and, as they dashed it open, they could hear the struggling of excited combatants-the curses of a man, the choked gaspings of a woman, and then, to add to the horror of the scene, the cries of terrified or hurt children were heard. 
               Hilton rushed blindly into the room, but Cramer drew a match from his pocket, and relighted his candle, so that he might see where he might be useful, and what was going on. When by it, he was enabled to see what was the matter, he beheld Hilton stretched at full length amongst a crowd of beggar children, who were thick and sprawling, and squalling; while just beyond his reach, were the real combatants in the fracas, a nearly naked man, and a woman quite as bad off in the dry goods line, who were clinched, and struggling as if for life or death. An empty gin-bottle near them accounted for their anger "in a measure," and, as Cramer stepped over the others and loosened the male brute's hand from the female's throat, he asked what the matter was. 
               "Sure, an' by Saint Dennis O' Sligo," cried the man, "didn't I wake and find the bottle that I left full, when I went to slape, wid nothin' in it at all-at all? The crater drinked it all, and I mane for to bate her for pay!" 
               "But you musn't strike a woman!" cried Cramer. 
               "Isn't this a fray counthry?" replied the man. "Can't a man ate his own wife widout paple a throublin' of him?" 
               "No-not while an American is present-it's against our national rules!" 
               "To the divil wid such a fray counthry, thin!" 
               "What did you come here for?" asked Hilton, not very good-naturedly naturedly, as he arose from the unclean embraces of his juvenile friends. 
               "Becase the parish sent me, an' the woman, an' the childers. What else could I do?" 
               "Have you worked for your living?" 
               "No, faith! The woman an' the childers can get the bit o' bread an' mate widout my workin', an' the wea drap o' crater besides!" 
               "What did you beat your wife for?" 
               "Sure, an' I tould yer honor afore-she took me bottle fra under the straw, an' divil the drap did she lave in it at all-at all!" 
               "Let's go," said Hilton, disgusted with the scene. 
               "Certainly, to the next floor, it is a little more respectable!" said Ernest leaving the room, and again descending the tottering stairs. 
               Standing upon the next flight a minute, Cramer showed his companion that there were more doors in view, signifying that the rooms were smaller. Cramer pushed against one of these, but it appeared to be fast inside. 
               "Who's there?" asked a woman, in a strong Irish accent. 
               "A friend!" replied Cramer. 
               A murmur, as if somebody was aroused beside the woman who spoke, was heard, but the door opened the next instant, and the two young men were admitted to the apartment, which could not be more than eight feet square at the most. In this a single pallet lay upon the floor upon which two young children were sleeping; a girl, whose age might be twelve or thirteen, was seated upon it, rubbing her eyes, as if half awake-while a woman of forty, or thereabouts, in very scant apparel, was standing near the door, with a look of enquiry on her face, as if she wished to know why she was visited. But, as her eye glanced over the genteel exterior of her visitors, a look of pleasure gathered upon her face, and she cried-"Yer honors are looking around for fun, maybe! Well, it's rare fun the widow O'Riley can get up once i' the long while! If it's a purty gal yer lookin' for, here's Norah-" 
               "Och-mother-mother-don't let 'em come near me the night!" said the girl, mournfully; "och, mother, dear, let me be asy this night, or I'll die!" 
               "What!" muttered Hilton, "would that mother sell her own child to degradation, and shame, and wretchedness?"
                     The reader will pardon the latitude I take, but I am describing a real scene, and giving the literal facts.
                  
                
               "You see for yourself!" said Cramer-"facts. not words, should convince you, now!" 
               "My God-do I stand in a Christian city?" 
               "Yes-in a city which sends millions of dollars every year to convert the poor heathen in far-off lands, not thinking of the heathen in their own midst; in a city where the tender-hearted people will weep over the sins of the unconverted Hottentots, while they forget their own; in a city which will send ships and food to far-off Greece, or nearer Ireland, while the poor are starving oftimes in its streets; a city which boasts of the loftiest churches, the grandest halls, and which permits in its very heart such festering dens of vice and corruption and poverty to exist as we have seen, and can see, this night, or any day or night!" 
               "Enough, enough. Let us go!" said Hilton, shuddering. 
               "What! and leave all the other rooms unvisited? There's the regular beggars' room, where the lame and the blind, the sore and the ragged, have their quarters." 
               "I don't want to see them-I've seen enough!" said Hilton, casting a dollar upon the pallet beside the poor shuddering girl who sat there. The old crone, her mother, with a scream of joy, rushed forward and snatched it up; for the poor child had hidden her head with a piece of the dirty, ragged blanket, and moaned as if with some terrible recollection, ever since her heartless parent had spoken. 
               "But you must see the 'Hurdy-Gurdy Parlor!' It is the best room in the house!" said Cramer, as they again descended to the ground floor. 
               Upon reaching the door on the left, all was still, except the sound of snoring and the hard-drawn breathings of slumber; but when Ernest pushed the door open, and the light illuminated the apartment, such another chattering couldn't be heard this side of a regular Yankee quilting party. 
               "Thunder!" cried Hilton, "where did all these monkies come from?" 
               "Look," said Ernest, "at the pillows under the men's heads, and you can guess. I told you this was the hurdy-gurdy room!" 
               So it was. There were at least forty people, men, women, and children, stowed away on pallets in the room, and under the head of every man, nearly, was one of those instruments which, during the day, grind out music by the pennyworth for the amusement of our babies and their nurses. To nearly every organ a monkey was chained, and these, aroused by the light and the intrusion, raised the chattering 
               There were women there, dark-eyed daughters of Italia, and young children, who had their little cages of white mice fast clasped in their arms, with which, during the day, they had importuned for alms at our hotels, where the generous Southerner and the careless Western man are wont to roost as they travel. 
               "Desca! Is Desca here?" asked Cramer. 
               "Si Signor!" cried a sweet voice from a far corner of the room, where a blanket tacked up across the angle of the room formed a partition, and in an instant the blanket was dashed aside, and a young creature, who looked too lovely for such a scene and place, sprang forward, and as she saw Cramer, bounded to his side and kissed the hand which he extended to greet her. 
               She was a slender figure, yet round and graceful limbed; her dress was national-a bodice of faded blue silk, low in neck, revealing the swelling signs of womanhood; her skirt was a crimson satin, it also faded and worn. A slipper of dark green encased a foot as small as a child's almost. Her jet black hair was bound in a Grecian coif around her beautiful head. Her features indicated her Italian birth; her large dark eyes were very lovely to look upon; liquid, brilliant, full of passion and feeling. 
               She held a tamborine in her hand, but at the head of the little pallet in the corner stood a guitar. 
               "Where is your father?" asked Cramer. 
                
               She pointed to a haggard-faced man, whose head was pillowed on his hand-organ, close before the little pallet where she had been sleeping. 
               "He is tire. Much has he walked and played, and yet made no more dan a few penny," said the young girl, sadly. "Does the Signor want Desca to dance for him?" 
               "Not to-night, poor girl! Here is a dollar for your father: have you kept your promise to me?" 
               "Yes, Signor. I promise El Sancta Maria, she keep me from wrong;" and the young girl made the sign of the cross as she spoke. 
               Many of the inmates of the room were now awake, and Cramer, handing the girl some money to distribute amongst them, turned away, followed by his friend. 
               "You've a singular set of acquaintances!" cried the latter, when they emerged into the street and Cramer had thrown away the candle. "How did you make the acquaintance of that pretty Italian, eh? I thought you was a model of purity!" 
               "You have seen nothing to convince you that I am anything else, have you?" 
               "No-I did not say that! But you seem to know this girl very well, and the whole gang looked at you as if they had seen you before!" 
               "They had; and she has seen me frequently. She is grateful to me for a service I once rendered her. I saved her from the insults of a gang of rowdies, when having lost her way, she was wandering about the streets late at night, looking for her father, whom she always accompanies." 
               "Is she not one of the lost and abandoned ones?" 
               "No; I believe that she is virtuous: I have never seen a sign of indelicacy in her conduct." 
               "You see strange adventures, Ernest, in your researches! Your life is quite romantic!" 
               "Would to God, all that I am forced to see was not so real!" sighed the other, as they passed on toward his boarding-house. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THERE is a house in Houston street, which has no door plate, to signify the name of its tenant or owner; a large handsome brick house, with handsome marble steps, and an uppertenish look. The window shutters are seldom unclosed; and when they are, crimson curtains are dropped before them, which no prying eye can penetrate. There is a carriage kept by the person who resides there, but it has no coat of arms on its panel-and is seldom used except in the evening, and if used in the day time, the persons who ride out generally enter it in the rear yard where the coach-house stands, and it is driven out with the curtains down, so as to conceal the occupant. 
               The servants attached to the house are all Irish, and inquisitive neighbors have often, but in vain, striven to learn who was the owner, tenant, or tenants of the building. 
               Sometimes rich looking equipages stood before the door-there were many visitors, but who they visited, or what was their business, could not be discovered. A perplexing veil of mystery covered all. 
               But, reader, we will strive to unveil it, that is if you dare to follow me through all that must be passed. 
               On the evening which Cramer had pronounced "blessed," because of his introduction to that lovely incarnation of all that his soul had imagined of beauty, grace, passion and feeling, "La Belle Serena"-a tall, singular looking man was pacing to and fro in a room in this building. I say he was "singular looking," because there was that in his appearance, which having once seen, you could not forget. His figure was tall, his features good, but in his high, noble forehead-an eye of the deepest black, large and bright; in his lips which were thin, pale, and closed, as he walked to and fro, the physiognomist mist could easily read that he was one accustomed to command and to be obeyed. 
               His dress was a plain black gown, which enveloped him from head to foot, but on the left breast of this was a cross of diamonds, which, to use the words of one more gifted than I, "was well worth the ransom of a king." This glittering insignia was not needed, however, to tell the beholder that his profession was priestly, for that could be seen in his manner and his look. 
               His manner as he paced to and fro, indicated that he expected a visitor, for his eye was often turned towards the only door that opened into the room, and in a low voice, he frequently muttered, looking at his watch, "She is late-she is late!" 
               Who was the "she," that a priest should expect to visit him in the dimness of the evening, the hour which those who profess to be journeymen soul-savers should dedicate to meditation. Let her answer for herself. 
               A slight tap, repeated twice or thrice nervously at the door, was heard by the individual whom I have but partially described, and a smile of satisfaction flitted over his thin face as he hastened to open the door. 
               A lady entered-a beautiful lady-who bowed very low as she came in, and crossing her hands upon her bosom, said: 
               "Eminence! You sent for your servant-I am here!" 
               "Gulietta-use no ceremony now! Call me Francesco, as you did when I was but a simple monk, you the loveliest nun that ever took the veil!" 
               "Eminence-I am still what I was, you are what you are!" and the head of the lovely lady was still bowed, and her dark, fringed eye-lids meekly cast down. 
               "Gulietta!" cried the man, in a voice deep and thrilling as the tone of a tolling bell, "have you forgotten Francesco?" 
               "Oh, never, Eminence, never! But-forgive poor Gulietta! Eminence-she would not offend!" 
               "She will offend, unless she at once ceases to regard my office, and looks upon me as she once did upon Francesco!" said the priest, or Bishop, or Cardinal, or whatever he was-at the same time pressing his arm around her slender waist, and pressing his lips to her brow. 
               She blushed to the temples as he did this, and raising her eyes to his, murmured-"Oh, this is too much happiness!" 
               He smiled, and pressed his lips to hers. Oh, how warm and passionately did she return his kiss. 
               "Francesco! Francesco!" she murmured. 
               For a few moments he held her thus in his arms, then gently seating her, he said: 
               "I sent for you to-night, Gulietta, on important business. You have a duty to perform for the good of the Church!" 
               "My life is at the service of the Church and the cause, Eminence!" replied the lovely woman. 
               "Your life will not be endangered in the service I demand, Gulietta," said the priest: "it is a service which, with your beauty and accomplishments, will be easy, and yet it is important. You know well the arts of love-how to win the heart of man!" 
               The lady blushed a reply, but did not speak. The priest gazed upon her lovely face a moment, and then continued: 
               "You have been selected from all the band of Sisters, Gulietta, to do this important service, and I expect success to crown your efforts. You cannot fail!" 
               "What am I to do, Eminence?" 
               "You are expected to win the heart of a fervent, enthusiastic, open-hearted man-to win his love, and having won it, through your influence, to lure him on to ruin!" 
               "Suppose I fail, Eminence? My charms are not what they were when-" 
               "You must not fail!" and the priest's brow grew dark as he spoke, interrupting her. 
               "Who is to be the victim, Eminence?" 
               "One who must be crushed, for he is an enemy to our order-he is shaking the foundations of the pillars of our house!" 
               "Why do you not use the dagger or the poisoned cup?" 
                
               "Because it would not help us so much as to crush and disgrace him, and thereby annul all that he has done against us. He has sown seed which, if it grows, will rise up to our injury, and his blood, if it were shed, would water it and strengthen its growth. No, we must not slay him: we must wither his hands, blacken his name, make it a bye-word and a mockery among men, then all that he has said will be forgotten and lost!" 
               "Your Eminence is wise; I am your servant. What am I to do how am I to proceed?" 
               "You will be furnished with funds to a large amount. You will proceed in disguise to Philadelphia, and there purchase a most elegant wardrobe of half-mourning. You will purchase jewelry of the richest and rarest kind; everything of the most genteel and chaste kind, for he is a man of taste. Having thus prepared to pass yourself for a rich Southern widow of twenty-two-" 
               "But, Eminence, I am already twenty-six!" 
               "Poh, child! you could pass for eighteen!-But do not interrupt me. Having prepared to pass as a wealthy young widow, you will arrive with your trunks and your servant at the Astor House-" 
               "My servant? I have none, your Eminence!" 
               "Why do you interrupt me?" cried the priest, angrily. 
               "Pardon, Eminence, pardon poor Gulietta!" and the fair creature knelt at his feet. 
               "Rise, my girl, rise-I am not offended. I have already engaged a most excellent companion and servant maid for you, an Italian girl, a daughter to a sworn and devoted servant of ours. I have selected her because she speaks your language-is young and artless, and I have higher aims for her, and wish her placed under your tuition." 
               "Is her name a secret, Eminence?" 
               "No, it is Desca del Onda!" 
               "Has she been educated?" 
               "No; her father is one of our Band of Secret Spies. He has been a street-musician-she has played and sung with him; but she is beautiful and talented-she must belong to us!" 
               The lady sighed, but made no reply. The priest continued: 
                
               "After taking lodgings at the Astor, you will seek for private lodgings; and I will see that you get them in the same house where he is living. The lady who keeps the house is a true daughter of the Church; she is the widow of an Irish gentleman, who was killed in a duel in Ireland, O'Brien Laurel, the second son of Sir Richard Laurel, of Ghorn Castle. I tell you these particulars, so that you may thoroughly understand your position." 
               "Your eminence has not yet told me the name of the enemy!" 
               "True-his name is Ernest Cramer!" 
               "The author!" 
               "Yes-but why do you blush? Have you ever seen him?" 
               "No, Eminence-but I once read a strange story from his pen, which I can never forget. The scene was laid in a Southern Isle, and-" 
               "Poh, child, I wish not to hear of his stories! Let it suffice thee, that he is a heretic and an enemy to our holy order. He must be crushed; your duty is to do it!" 
               "Eminence-to hear is to obey! Your blessing?" 
               Oh, what a mockery of religion! That man, whose heart was so full of guile, raised hands which, for aught we know, had been stained with human blood, and spreading them over the head of that guilty, passion-ful woman, invoked the blessing of the Holy Trinity upon her! 
               Then-ere he allowed her to pass away, he pressed his sensual mouth to her warm and glowing lips in a kiss, as unchaste as the salute of a harlot to her victim. He gave her a few more directions, and then she left the room. 
               After he was again alone, he looked once more at his watch. "Fifteen minutes to eleven!" he muttered-"he will be here at eleven. What can Manton mean by sending him to me? He writes that he is to confer with me on important business, which nearly concerns me. I have nothing in common with Manton or his class. It is true, I occasionally for excitement risk a few hundred dollars of our funds at his bank; if I win, I come away quietly as I enter: if I lose, it is the same. He alone knows me to be what I am, and it was by accident, and his Irish dealer's stupidity, that he found out that. What can he mean by sending an agent to me? But I must be prepared for him!" 
               The priest rang a small bell which lay on a table by his hand. In a moment a servant entered, and, bowing low, without speaking, awaited his orders. 
               "Dennis-I wish a fine supper on the table here, in fifteen minutes-two plates only. Let the best wine be brought from the cellar. When my company has arrived you will alone remain, and hark you-you must be mute and deaf!" 
               The servant bowed his reply, and left the room. Returning shortly, he prepared a table as directed, and at the precise time, he broke the silence, by informing the priest that all was ready. The latter again glanced at his watch. 
               "A minute beyond the time!" he muttered, impatiently. But, at the same instant, a ringing bell was heard, and, in a minute afterward, another servant entered, and, bowing with deferential respect, handed him a card. He read it, and muttered: 
               "This then is he. Judas I. Arnold! A singular name!" 
               Then turning to the servant, he added-"Invite the gentleman in!" 
               A minute elapsed, and a man about the middle height, of slender figure, dressed genteelly, entered. 
               "Mr. Arnold?" asked the priest, glancing from the card to the man. 
               "The same, Reverend sir, at your service!" 
               "Be seated, sir. I am rejoiced to see you. I waited supper a few moments for you!" 
               "You do me too much honor, Reverend sir!" 
               "No compliment, sir-I beg. Sit down, and as we sup, we will converse!" 
               The man, Arnold, merits a full description. As I said before, he was of medium height, and slim in figure. His features were rather slim but regular; the expression of his countenance, at a first glance, seemed open and pleasing, but when it was studied, you could see in the keen black eye and thin lip, a look of cunning and treachery that would, very naturally, make you suspicious of him. His hair was black, worn rather long, straight, and was plastered sleekly down upon his cheeks with oil. He looked mild, gentlemanly, somewhat like a lawyer, would not have looked very unlike a preacher, if he had worn a white neckcloth. 
               When seated at the table, and the wine had been placed before them, their glasses were filled: 
               "To your health, sir!" said the priest. 
               "To the destruction of our enemies!" said Arnold, emptying his glass. 
               "Our enemies? Do you belong to us?" asked the priest, with a look of surprise. 
               "I do not belong to the order of which your Reverence is the head in America," replied the other-"Yet, may not our enemies be the same?" 
               "I do not understand you!" 
               "Then Manton did not explain to you?" 
               "He merely said in a note that you were in every way trust worthy, and would confer with me upon a matter which deeply interested me!" 
               "Ah-he said no more? Then I will explain. You and your order have a dangerous enemy in one Ernest Cramer, a young American, who, by his pen and his harangues before secret societies of his fellow-countrymen, has done much to expose your aims, and thwart your objects!" 
               "It is true-but what of him?" 
               "He is also the enemy of Manton, and all the sporting gentlemen of New York. He denounces gambling as thievery, exposes the tricks, places, and persons of the sporting men-and often steps in and takes game from our hands, when it is almost safe within our net. We wish him destroyed-so do you! We do not wish to risk a murder!" 
               "No-there is such a thing as murdering without taking life!" said the priest. There is such a thing as leading a man into a snare, from which he cannot escape-there is such a thing as damning his name, blasting his character, driving him to crime, want and beggary, and for such a fate I would spare him. Had we known him in time, the knife or poison should have stilled his voice and removed the danger-but he has said and written so much, that to slay him now would be to help his cause, for others would rise to avenge him, and carry out his views. No-we must degrade and ruin his cause through himself! I have already taken preparatory steps!" 
               "May I ask your Reverence what they are?" 
               "I have prepared to cast a lovely, talented and most finished coquette in his path, who will win him to almost any point, if I judge his character aright." 
               "The plan is good!" 
               "Had you any plan formed?" 
               "Yes-one that will not interfere with yours. I am well paid for my work, and shall take a bold step. I shall receive an introduction to him on to-morrow-I shall flatter his talents-shall express sympathy in his labors, offer my services-pecuniary and personal, to him in his labors for reform. I shall endeavor to become a member of the American Orders, to which he belongs, and being once with them, you may trust me that I will not only soon learn all their secrets, but so poison them against him, that they will cast him forth with scorn and loathing from 
                     ther
                     their
                   midst!" 
               Magnificent! The plan is splendidly conceived! Yes, you will win his confidence-become his brother, and we can learn all his aims and plans, and at last crush him through his own friends! We cannot fail now! Sir, I am delighted to see you and to make your acquaintance. Fill another bumper-I'll drink you a new toast!" 
               The glasses were filled to the brim. The priest raised his: 
               "Here is wine and women, religion for fools, and eternal destruction to all foes!" he cried, draining it to the last drop. 
               What a sentiment to be breathed from the lips of a professed follower of the meek and holy Jesus-what words for an avowedly chaste and humble Christian, to use. Even Judas Arnold seemed astonished, and he was a hard villain to move, for he hesitated to drink 
                
               The priest noticed this, and smiled. 
               "You are astonished at my words!" he said. "You would not be if you had studied as I have studied. The truth is, that the less knowledge you possess, the more faith you have, the better Christian you will be! But I have a question to ask-are you an American?" 
               "I am!" 
               "A Catholic?" 
               "No, I have never troubled my head about religion!" 
               "You have a singular name!" 
               "Yes! It is Judas Iscariot Arnold. My father who was a misanthrope, affixed the two first names, as he said to tally with the last-but he was insane-he died at the Mad House, on Blackwell's Island!" 
               "I presume too much perhaps, on your private feelings, but are you a descendant of Benedict Arnold?" 
               "Yes-a grandson-his only grandson-the last of the stock, and by the God who made me, I mean to be worthy of the breed! They have stamped our name with infamy-I'll uphold it, and be an Arnold while I exist!" 
               "I like your spirit! Your ancestor was a wronged man!" 
               "Yes-wrong drove him to wrong-but it matters not-to our present business. You hate Cramer, because he is an enemy to your church and order; I personally hate him because he is an American in heart and soul, as well as name; I persecute him apart from this, because I am well paid by men who must crush him or be crushed themselves. They have tried to kill him. They have tried to lure him into traps where assassination would be safe and easy, but in that he has foiled them. Once a note was sent to him, telling him that a beautiful woman wished to see him at a certain house in Liberty street, at a certain hour. When the hour came, a posse of Mattsel's special police came in his place, and it was with difficulty that the heads of the plan escaped arrest. We tried poison-but luck seems to be on his side, he won't be killed, and if he was, I doubt whether he'd stay killed, for I have heard that he was killed two or three times already, and he has come to life again!" 
                
               The priest had listened attentively to these remarks, and after Arnold had stopped, he remained 
                     burried
                     buried
                   in deep thought for several minutes-a lapse of time which his companion filled up by "turning to" at the eatables before him. At last the priest spoke. 
               "This young man"-said he, "is but one of many who think and feel as he does. He, more bold and reckless than they, comes out and speaks his sentiments freely; they will soon do the same. They must be crushed, or we as an Order will perish from the face of the earth!" 
               "More truth than poetry there. And we gentlemen of pleasure-we too must be rid of him, else he will force the officers of the law to prosecute us-or have new officers put in power, who will enforce the law, and that would drive us to Texas, or some other hot country!" 
               "You are well paid by Manton and his party, you said!" 
               "I am,"-replied Arnold. 
               "You shall also be pensioned from our treasury!" continued the priest. "But we must act in concert-you must implicitly follow my directions!" 
               "I shall be but too happy to act under the advice of so wise a leader as your Reverence!" 
               "It is well. Your plan to join his Order and become apparently his devoted friend, interested in the same cause, must be carried out immediately. You can act in concert with the others whom I have placed in the same business!" 
               This matter settled, we will leave this scene and allow the gentlemen to enjoy their supper, though it is possible, we may return to them before they have finished, and learn more of the secrets of that singular dwelling-secrets, which if rumors of bright eyes-scantily draped but lovely forms-are true, will show that a Jesuit Priest may imitate a Turkish Sultan in other things than smoking opium, even in the pure and immaculate city of Gotham. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V 
               ONE night had only passed over his head, since that on which he had made the acquaintance of La Belle Serena-the night he had spent in delivering his American address, and in the visit to Manton's gambling hell, and the scene of misery described in the third chapter, and yet, Ernest felt as if it was a week, so impatient was he to renew his visit to that lovely young lady. He had dressed himself with unusual care, and though the hour was early, he was pacing to and fro in his parlor, impatiently waiting the appearance of his friend Hilton, who had promised again to accompany him to Japonica Place. His usually pale face was flushed, and his manner, usually so calm and stolid, now exhibited nervousness and agitation. 
               A tap on his door made him start and turn around, and as he cried "Come in!" his voice was quicker and louder than usual. He looked disappointed when Lizzie Laurel entered, instead of him whom he expected. 
               "Why, how you are dressed up, Mr. Cramer!" she cried. "Are you going to a party to-night?" 
               "No, Lizzie,-only to pay a visit!" 
               "A visit? Then it is to some young lady!" 
               "Why do you think so?" 
               "Because I never saw you dress so particularly neat before. Tell me, Mr. Cramer, tell me," she repeated earnestly, "are you in love?" 
               "In love, you silly girl," replied Ernest, blushing in spite of himself. "have I not told you that I should never love again!" 
               "And you told a naughty fib when you said so, sir; for though I am but a young girl, I am wise enough to see that you are in love!" 
               Cramer made no reply, but seemed thoughtful. Perhaps he was considering if what she said was not true-thinking if he was really in love or not. But she again interrupted his thoughts by her clear, bird-like voice. 
               "To-morrow," said she,-"to-morrow, Mr. Cramer, is to be an era in my existence!" 
               "What is to occur to-morrow, Lizzie?" 
               "Why, Mr. Poet, I am forever to discard these girlish dresses, and faced pantalettes, to assume the dress of a woman, sir,-no longer a girl-I am sixteen to-morrow! Can't you write me a piece of poetry for the occasion?" 
               "Ah, Lizzie,-it is a pity that you cannot always be what you are now-a young, happy, artless maiden. Little do you know of the dangers and troubles which beset a girl who possesses youth and beauty, and who-" 
               A loud knock at the door interrupted Ernest's moral lecture, and as Lizzie opened it, she blushed to the very temples as she admitted the handsome Lieutenant. She wished to pass out, but Hilton stood in the doorway an instant, intercepting her passage, while he said- 
               "You must pardon my rude remark, the other evening, Miss Lizzie!" 
               "Oh, sir, do not mention it. My own foolish tongue called it upon myself!" said the young girl, blushing redder than ever. 
               "Then I am forgiven?" 
               "Certainly, sir; but excuse me, my mother wished me to do an errand, and I came up for that;-Mr. Cramer, ma wants to borrow a couple of sheets of letter paper, please!" said the girl, thinking of this convenient errand very suddenly indeed, and as Ernest more than half suspected, only to make a good excuse for withdrawing the sentinel from the door. He handed her the paper, and Hilton, entering, grasped the extended hand of his friend. 
               "Are you ready?" asked Ernest, too eager to offer his friend a seat. 
               "Why there's no hurry. It's only seven o'clock: I'll smoke a cigar first, if you please! I want to smoke, and as I am not 'the man who smokes in the omnibus,' I'll take a cigar here!" 
                
               "Certainly; but I thought we were late!" said Cramer, in a tone half impatient, half apologetical. 
               Hilton smiled, as he coolly tore a slip of paper from the cover of a magazine on the table, and lighted his cigar. 
               "Ernest," said he, "it is my private opinion, that you are, "a goner"-you are irretrievably in love, your heart has been carried by a coup de main, the castle has surrendered to the enemy. Come, confess, are you not in love with Serena Clifford?" 
               "Candidly, Harry-confidentially, remember, for I will entrust no one, not even herself with the secret, till I am assured of a return of my affection-I am!" 
               "So I thought-so will every one think, who notes your' actions and altered manner!" 
               "Poh-you jest. I am not so badly off as that!" 
               "You are just so-but are you in a hurry?" 
               "Oh, no-oh, no, take your time!" replied Cramer, in a tone and in a look which belied his words. 
               "Then sit down, and observing the pale blue wreathes of smoke which rise from my lips, philosophise upon the mutability of human hopes! Ha! ha! I should like to hear a lover philosophise!" 
               "'Harry, he jests at scars, who never felt a wound'-you may be in love yourself before long-don't jest with me!" 
               "Pshaw! when you catch me in love, expect to discover the passage into the interior world, which Captain Symmes believed in!" 
               "So said I, until you introduced me to that incarnation of beauty and grace, La Belle Serena!" 
               "But I had already withstood the artillery of her charms, without surrendering-there is a proof that I am not so susceptible as you!" 
               "A proof that you could not appreciate a woman who cannot be matched on earth! Harry-did I possess all the world at this moment, and would have to become penniless, and be forced to labor for my bare subsistence and hers, to possess her, I would gladly resign power, wealth, all-yes, all the world!" 
               "Yours is a desperate case!" said Hilton, laughing. "Matrimony only can cure it-but come, I'll not keep you back any longer-we'll start!" 
                
               An half an hour later, Ernest Cramer and his friend Hilton were ushered in the parlor of Mr. Clifford, and the enchanted stood in the presence of the lovely enchantress. Never did woman look lovelier than she on that occasion. Her dress was a dark purple satin, low in the neck, the short sleeves leaving her beautiful arms bare almost to the shoulder. The bodice was long and pointed, revealing the contour of her faultless bust, the roundness of her waist, and the swelling proportions of a figure which needed no artificial padding. The color of the dress, by its contrast, made her fair skin look like alabaster tinted with the hues of the rose. Her hair hung as usual in a profusion of glossy curls. A little cottage apron, made her look "at home," and her foot was cased in a delicately worked slipper, trimmed with blue, which set off the silk, fleshed-colored stockings and perfect ancle to a thought. Her manner was warm and unaffected as she welcomed the young men. 
               "I expected you!" she said, when they were seated. "Mr Cramer promised to call soon again!" 
               The heart of Cramer beat wildly beneath her glance, as she spoke then, and he felt that there was a deeper expression in her look than there was in her words merely; an expression which awakened a tumult of hopes and wishes in his heart. 
               "I should certainly have called last night if I had not been previously engaged, Miss Serena!" he said. 
               "You delivered an address, last evening, did you not, sir? I saw a notice in a morning paper that you were expected to!" 
               "I had the pleasure to do so, lady." 
               "And I the pleasure of being present!" said Hilton. "Ah, Miss Serena, you should have been there to see what warm friends Ernest has!" 
               "It would have given me pleasure to have heard him-you must extend an invitation to me when your next address is to be delivered!" said the lady. 
                
               "I fear your expectations will be disappointed, lady, if you go. I am but an impractised speaker, and make no claims to graceful oratory!" 
               "Of that, let me judge for myself!" said the young lady, smiling "When will you speak again?" 
               "On the evening of the twenty-second of the month, lady, the anniversary of the birth of Liberty's first-born and favorite son, Washington!" 
               "Oh, I must hear you then! The subject is so grand, you could not fail to do well with that!" 
               "I shall feel but too proud, lady, to have you among my auditors!" replied Cramer in a tone and with a look which heightened the color on her fair cheek. 
               Hilton, who had passed to the centre-table, and seating himself by it, taking up a newspaper, now uttered an exclamation of surprise. 
               "Ernest," said he, "was not the name of the young man you warned from the gambling table last night, Hagerman?" 
               "Yes-what of him?" 
               "The Evening Mirror states here that a Mr. Hagerman, an officer in the -- Bank, has fled, and it is feared has taken funds belonging to the bank, amounting to 50 or 60,000 dollars." 
               "Even as I feared, but not so soon-I hoped to see him before he could take such a step-I should have done it this afternoon, had not a visit detained me. God keep and comfort his poor wife!" 
               "I saw the article in the paper: did you know the young man?" asked the lady of Cramer. 
               "Only by sight; yet, last night, or rather this morning, at one o'clock, I stood by his side in a gambling hell, and in vain tried to stay his hand and save him from ruin." 
               "You in a gambling house, Mr. Cramer! I should think your life would not be safe a moment! You, who so boldly denounce their crimes and persons!" 
               "I was there in a disguise which they could not penetrate. Oh, Miss Clifford! had you seen the weeping wife of young Hagerman, only the day before, as she implored me to save the husband of her love from ruin, you would not wonder that I would risk much to save him. She had already learned his crime; she knew that he had robbed the bank-knew that he had been false in his conjugal vows; and yet, with woman's constancy, she hoped and prayed for his reclamation. She would not condemn or desert him; she would not drive him forth desperate and alone in the world; and, knowing my aims and objects of action, she came to me for aid. I promised it; last night I commenced, but it was too late, I fear. If he has fled, and she is, as I feel sure, left behind by the heartless villain, she is broken-hearted." 
               "Poor woman! my heart bleeds for her. Had she children?" 
               "One, a sweet boy, just old enough to lisp the name of his parents!" 
               "And will he no more know his father? Will that poor child look in vain for the aid and protecting hand of a father?" 
               "Alas! yes; and I fear he will see his mother pale, and droop and die like an unwatered flower in life's desert!" 
               "Oh, Mr. Cramer! I do not now wonder at your vehemence in condemning the gamblers-at your bitterness in denouncing the class who can produce such desolation!" 
               "Lady, you see but one isolated case. I can name one hundred facts, aye, and point you to the persons-name them and their destroyers, each of which would as keenly wring your heart as this. I could tell you of a widowed lady, left with two beautiful and promising children, one a girl just budding into womanhood, the other a son verging on his twentieth year. She had a little property, sold it, and converted it into cash to start her son in business. He opened a store-soon began to do a very comfortable business, and his income was a handsome support for himself, mother and sister. They all lived together, and as that sister afterwards told me, lived as happy as the day was long. She was well educated and accomplished, and when her brother's business was over at evenings, he always came home, and with conversation and music they pleasantly passed away the leisure hours. But the DEMONS of the city crossed his path-he was enticed into a gambling hell. At first allowed to win, as is ever the case, he became infatuated with the belief that gambling was indeed the turning of FORTUNE'S wheel;-he believed or hoped to win a fortune, and soon he lost his all; nay more, for in an hour of madness and drunken desperation he actually staked the honor of his virtuous sister-staked it, and lost, and before he was sobered into his senses, had betrayed her into a gambler's hands-betrayed her, a drugged and helpless being, to a wretch who knew no mercy; and (forgive me for speaking so plainly, lady; but I tell the truth) she was lost! I will briefly tell you the fate of that family. This sister is now in her grave; but she lived two years of wretchedness as a courtezan, before she died; the brother is an inmate of Sing Sing, for forgery; his mother is a raving maniac in a mad-house. This is but one of many cases where I can point out death, desolation, and madness, as resulting directly from the hands of the gamblers of New York! Why then should I not detest them-why not denounce and expose them-why not endeavor to save victims from their grasp." 
               "Oh, most true, Mr. Cramer! And all that I wonder at is, that the whole moral community does not rise en masse to aid you in your glorious work!" 
               "They are too selfish, lady. Selfishness is the order of the day. Everybody looks out for number one, and cares not what befalls his neighbor. Those who wish to appear benevolent or philanthropic, have such vastly-extended ideas, that they can see no poverty, no crime, no suffering this side of the Sandwich Islands, or the China Seas-they cannot be made to believe, that men, women and children starve in our midst; that young girls are forced to sell their virtue for the bread which they cannot earn at the wages offered for labor, that maniacs can be seen in our mad-houses-who shout "hunger-hunger and want!"-that widows and orphans of our own proud land, are side by side with the servile herds of foreign paupers, who fill our Alms Houses!" 
               "Oh, Mr. Cramer, what a picture you paint!" 
               "Yet, lady, as my Maker is my judge, I am only speaking the truth! To remedy the evils I describe, I have labored, do labor, will labor, so long as my life is spared!" 
                
               "It is a glorious work. Oh, Mr. Cramer, how few understand you or your motives! As a young and promising writer, I have admired your talents, had read your works with great pleasure-but I thought your ambition was to become famous as a writer. Now I see that you have a nobler, a holier aim!" 
               "Lady, I do not deny that I am ambitious-who is not? But my ambition is to serve my beloved country-to aid and be beloved by my countrymen; to help those who are friendless-to feed the starving, to aid the vicious in turning back to virtue-to punish the sharks who destroy humanity. It is my choice to do this-I have voluntarily assumed the work, knowing that danger and opposition, and very probably death, is in the path before me!" 
               "Not Death-oh, I hope not so!" a tear started in Serena's eyes as she spoke. 
               "Lady-I could die to believe that you felt an interest in my life so great an interest as to weep at my death!" 
               She blushed crimson to the very temples, as with her white hand she dashed the tear aside, which was already coursing down her cheek. 
               "If at the thought I weep, surely should I, at the reality!" she murmured in a voice trembling with agitation. 
               He made no reply-neither of them spoke for several minutes. Both of them were embarrassed. Both of them had said too much, not to wish to say more-yet neither dared to proceed. Young love is timid as an infant-and when it yields itself, is all as trusting. 
               After a few minutes, during which neither spoke, Serena arose, as of determined to change the scene, and taking a seat at the piano, struck up a lively waltz. Ernest followed her-but he did not seem to heed the music. As he stood at one corner of the piano, he gazed upon her lovely face-gazed steadily, as if he was reading his fate in the lovely book of Nature before him. She did not look up at him, but her flushed cheek, the quivering eyelashes drooped low on that cheek, and her heaving bosom, told him a tale which flattered his hopes. 
                
                
               In the fourth chapter we left "His Eminence," and Judas Iscariot Arnold, supping quite cosily together, having come to a business and personal understanding, which seemed agreeable to both. And at the close of that chapter, I said that possibly I might draw the curtains aside, and exhibit the continuation of the revel, and show how the "austerity, poverty and chastity" which his vows imposed upon him, is carried out by a Jesuit Priest. We left them at half-past eleven-choice viands and generous wine before them. We will return at one, an hour past midnight. 
               Mr. Arnold's usually pale face has become crimsoned with wine, his small black eye sparkles like a coal of fire, his manner before assumedly meek, is now bold and swaggering. He seems to be pretty well "in for it"-as nearly "tight" as one can be and keep a perpendicular position. "His Eminence" don't seem to be much better off. His haughty demeanor has passed away-he smiles continually-his cheeks and brow are flushed, and a sensual expression marks the countenance which so lately appeared severely dignified and nobly intellectual. 
               The same servant attended them, and as bottle after bottle was emptied, supplied more. 
               "Your rev-reverence," said Arnold, hiccupping a little, "d-do you ev-ever s-sing?" 
               "At high mass I sing like a bull!" and the priest laughed, as he replied. 
               "B-but I don't mean none of your psalm t-tunes. Ca-can't you sing us a jolly good song with a cho-chorus?" 
               "I'm too sober yet. for that. I never sing till I'm two-thirds toddied!" 
               "J-just so with me! I've a cap-capital voice, but it wants mel-mellowing." 
               "If you're fond of music and dancing, my boy, I can please you Dennis-have the ladies retired?" 
               "I will see, Eminence!" replied the servant, starting to leave the room. At a sign from the priest, he returned to his side, and the latter whispered an order in his ear, which Arnold could not hear. 
                
               The servant bowed and left the room to obey his directions. 
               "Let's f-fill up our gl-glasses!" cried Arnold. Speaking o' music and dance-dancing's put me in mind 'f a toast, a dev-devilish good toast!" 
               "What is it-let's hear!" cried the priest, filling the glasses. 
               "May we soon hear Cr-Cramer's groans for mu-music, and see him dan-dance on nothing for a car-carpet! Ain't that one o' tha-the toasts?" 
               "Hark! There's music! What do you think of that?" 
               Arnold did not reply to the priest. He fairly held his breath, between astonishment and desire to hear the singular music which seemed to fill the very air they breathed. It seemed to be at one moment close beside them, then again it sounded faint and low, as if it was far off. At one moment, it was sad and mournful as the sighings of the broken-hearted, then gay as the song of the humming-bird; one instant, it was like the merry waltz of the Spanish maiden, then it was like the martial march of a hero's choice. At last it seemed to come nearer and nearer-it was now a march-until it filled the room with its swelling sounds. Suddenly what appeared to be a ceiling at the back of the room moved aside, showing a large room beyond, furnished in a style which would vie with any Eastern boudoir or court in existence. But Arnold's eye did not glance at the silken carpets, the velvet hangings, the golden chandeliers, the voluptuous paintings. Twelve of the fairest women that ever eye gazed upon, were seen with a slow and measured step, full of grace, marching around the large apartment to the sound of music played by persons and instruments, which were unseen. Each was dressed in some fanciful costume; no two were robed alike. In truth, two or three could scarcely be said to be dressed at all, so scanty was the drapery placed to ornament, rather than conceal their lovely figures. Others were dressed as sultanas-Georgian slaves, Grecian maidens, each in a style that best displayed her peculiar beauty. 
               Arnold gazed on, but he could not speak. The priest watched him, but appeared careless of the exhibition. It was probably nothing new to him. Meanwhile, the music, at first so grand and slow, quickened its time, changing from a march to a dance. And as this occurred, the small feet, some bare and white as snow-drops, others sandalled in silk, still others cased in the crimson boot of the Polish maiden, glanced quick and quicker over the floor; the lovely figures darted hither and thither in the mazy dance; bare arms and snowy shoulders, bosoms of alabaster rose-tinted, flashing in the light, a scene too voluptuously beautiful for description. Eyes black as jet, and bright as Golconda's gems; eyes blue as heaven, soft and liquid as the dew-drop nestled in the violet's azure cup; all turned glances melting with love and fiery with passion toward the licentious priest and his wondering companion. Faster and faster still increased the musical-time; faster yet, whirled the lovely daughters of Sin, until the very brain of Arnold seemed turning and whirling with them. 
               The priest marked his bewilderment, and laughed merrily. The laugh was echoed by the bird-like voices of the dancers, who now, at a sign from the priest, circled nearer and nearer, until they were whirling around the table. Arnold felt the warm breath from rosy lips on his heated brow-their long silken hair brushed his flushed cheeks, as floating on the air it half-draped their lovely necks and shoulders. He reached out his arms to clasp a glowing beauty to his breast, and, as she darted lightly from his reach, he fell forward, stupid and senseless, on the floor. 
               IN the last chapter we left Ernest Cramer standing by the piano, before which La Belle Serena was seated. She was playing she scarcely knew what; he certainly didn't know, for he heard nothing: his senses all seemed centered in one, that of sight; for motionless, dreamily, and abstracted, he stood there gazing upon her loveliness. How long this would have continued, Heaven only knows, had it not been for a hearty laugh from Hilton-a regular "Ha! ha! ha!-ho! ho! ho!-he! he! he!" 
               Both Cramer and the lady started, and the former cried: 
               "What's the matter, Harry? What pleases you so?" 
               "A joke-a conundrum as is a conundrum-one of Hiram's happiest piest efforts. He says that low tide in a river is precisely like the manly art of self-defence, as taught by his friend Isaiah!" 
               "How does he make that out?" 
               "He says that both develope the muscles!" 
               "You laugh easier than I do!" said Ernest, with a quiet smile. 
               But this little interruption served as quite a relief to Serena, for he recovered her composure, and when asked to sing, did so with a voice as clear and full as usual. While she was singing, others entered the parlor; and when she ceased, the conversation became general, and the evening was soon pleasantly passed away. At eleven Hilton reminded Cramer of the hour, and they arose to leave. Again they were accompanied to the door by Miss Clifford. As Ernest lingered, holding her soft hand in his own, he asked: 
               "Are you fond of walking, Miss Serena?" 
               "Very, Sir! Scarce a day passes that I do not walk out!" 
               "I am fond of morning walks-but you ladies seldom rise so early as I." 
               "Fashionable ladies may not," replied Serena-"but I always rise with the sun. I often take a turn through the Parade Ground before any one is stirring in the streets, except the market girls and milkmen." 
               "Then, should I call at an early hour to-morrow, could I have the honor of promenading with you?" 
               "If it would be a pleasure to you, sir." 
               "Indeed it would, lady-expect me-may angels bring you pleasant dreams!" 
               Adieus were exchanged-the door was closed, and the two young men walked down the street. 
               "Well, Ernest, what do you think of her on your second visit?" asked Hilton. 
               "Don't talk to me, Harry, I am too happy to talk!" cried Cramer. 
               She is a living angel!" 
               "Without the wings!" replied the other, laughing. 
               The conversation of the two young men as they proceeded to the lodgings of Cramer, was gay and pleasant, but not of sufficient interest rest to be recorded here. It was nearly twelve when they arrived, and Cramer invited his companion to share his room with him for the remainder of the night, which the latter frankly accepted. 
               On arriving in his room, Cramer observed three or four sealed letters lying upon his table. He seated himself, and commenced reading them, while Hilton, making himself soldierly at home, took off his coat and lighted a cigar. 
               One of the letters seemed to interest Cramer very much. He read it the second time, and then spoke to Hilton in connection with it. 
               "Harry," said he, "I broke my intention of visiting young Hagerman to day, on account of a visit-I told you so, didn't I?" 
               "Yes, I believe you did." 
               "But I said nothing about my visitor?" 
               "Your visitress, I presume you mean. Was she pretty, eh-tell me about it!" 
               "Harry, you wrong me! It was a man who called upon me, and detained me several hours. The reason that I alluded to him was, that he is the writer of the letter before me. It is a singular document, read it!" 
               Hilton took the proffered letter and read it aloud. It was as follows. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "Mr. ERNEST CRAMER:-
                            
                           "DEAR SIR,-In my interview of this day, I had not time or composure to say to you all that I desired. Sir, you will, when you know me better, acquit me of adulation or flattery, but I must run the risk of being thought guilty of both, when I say that to-day, to find myself in the presence of one whose pen has not only done much for suffering humanity, but won for him imperishable renown, completely unmanned me, and deprived me of that composure necessary to converse with you. Pardon me, I implore you, sir, and grant me a further interview, for I can aid you essentially in the cause I have espoused. I have in a previous note and in my conversation of to-day, I believe, assured you of facts which will convince you of my honor and my probity. I assure you, again, sir, that it is my only aim and desire, to follow where your 'white plume' leads, to aid you in your glorious cause of reform. Though I do not possess a tithe of your talents, I have that which may essentially aid you. I have a knowledge of evil, gained by sad experience, and I have wealth which I am anxious to expend in doing good and alleviating misery. I shall, if you please, call upon you again in a day or two and explain my views more fully, especially upon that noble Institution, the American Order, to which you belong. 
                           "I am, sir, with admiration and respect, your friend, 
                           
                              "J. I. ARNOLD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Hilton shook his head as he looked at the signature-shook it gravely, as if he saw something he didn't like. 
               "What do you see out of the way?" asked Cramer. 
               "Nothing out of the way, exactly," replied Hilton, "but I don't like to see a man sign his name with such a flourish. He's got a curlycue here half a yard long, and then, the name Arnold, I don't like that. I wonder if he's a descendant of the Arnold whose name is printed in type of eternal infamy?" 
               "No-he mentioned to me that he was not; besides, he is one of the strongest native Americans that you ever heard talk!" 
               "Well-you can judge better after seeing the man, than I who have not!" 
               "I like him," said Cramer; "he seems so enthusiastic in the cause of reform. It is not every man who will come to you and say, 'I am am willing to expend my wealth in doing good. If you see any who suffer, draw on me'!" 
               "That's true-I congratulate you, Ernest, in gaining such a recruit. What are those other letters which you are opening, about?" 
               "This one is from a young man who is clerk in an Importing House; he has lost funds, collected by him for his employers, lost them at play. He sees the awful position he is in-he confesses his error, and begs my advice and aid to save him, for the sake of his gray-haired parents-to save him, from rain and disgrace!" 
               "What can you do for him?" 
               "Heaven only knows. I will see him and learn how much he has lost, and whether it can be returned to his employers before they discover their loss. If it can be, it shall!" 
               "Can't you force the gamblers to disgorge?" 
               "Did you ever see champagne squeezed out of a rock? You might as well expect to do that, as to recover money that has once got into the iron chest of that foul fiend, Manton!" 
               "This then, is one of his victims!" 
                
               "So it appears by his letter!" 
               "You have not seen him?" 
               "Not to my knowledge-you know that we saw at least a hundred there, but I only knew a few of them. I may recognise him at our interview, for I shall see him as soon as possible. I will save him, if I can. And now that your cigar is finished, hadn't we better go to bed?" 
               "Not till I tell you a story, which a remark of your's, a minute ago, reminded me of. You, by way of comparison, asked if champagne could be squeezed from a rock. I say yes, and can prove it, as you will acknowledge when you've heard my story." 
               "Well, go ahead. I'm all attention," said Cramer, yawning, when he spoke, like a deacon under a two-hours sermon. 
               "We had a curious commissary with us in the South," continued Hilton-"his name was Jedediah Rock, and he came from New Haven, originally. Any one at the first glance could see that he was a Yankee. He had a face that looked as if it had been whittled out of well-seasoned bass-wood-it looked so dry-dry as a sponge hung up in a drug store, and cut sharp at the angles. No one to look at him, would think that he ever drank anything stronger than water, but looks are deceiving, as I said, when I tried to kiss a lady 'for the gloves' once, whom I thought to be asleep. She caught me by the under lip with her 'pearly teeth,' and didn't let go till I hallooed blue murder, and promised not to kiss her again till she asked me. But about Major Rock, as we called him. 
               "Our march from the Punta Nacionale to Jalapa, was one of the dryest of the whole campaign. The day had been hot-hot as an attic bed-room in dog-days, when the window is nailed down. It came on night, and we camped as usual, our regiment in advance. The baggage and provision train was away in the rear, and all any of us had to eat, was contained in our haversacks-our canteens had been empty for hours. Now we were in a situation to require spiritual consolation, and some of us who knew old Rock well, knew that in spite of his temperate look, and temperance talk, he was in the habit of always carrying some medicine with him, to use in case of an attack of his favorite enemy, the cholic. So I, feeling confident that he had something in his hamper, (for he being in the staff had a pack-mule allowed him, besides his horse,) mentioned my suspicions to two or three other officers, who were about as full of the devil as I was, and we determined not to be dry if we could help it. 
               "I commenced operations by sending my servant to him with my compliments for a little brandy-as I had a terrible pain in the stomach, and wished to bathe my stomach outwardly. 
               "The servant came back with the regrets of Major Rock; he was very sorry that he was entirely out-thought the surgeon could supply me. 
               "'What was the Major doing, John?' I asked of the man. 
               "'Singing a psalm-tune, sir!' 
               "'Then by Jove,' cried Purdy, one of us was Purdy, and a tall one at that-'he's got liquor. He never sings till his eyes begin to snap, and I'll bet my commission that he's half way "over the bay" now. How can we squeeze a drink or two out of him?' 
               "'I'll tell you,' said George Ferris, who was another of us.-'Harry, you shall go to his tent and have a fit of the cholera morbus, awful! I'll follow in three or four minutes, or as soon as I hear you stop groaning, and I'll have it worse than you did. As soon as I get cured, then each of you in turn will follow the same good example.' 
               "'Good!' cried the whole party, and we proceeded to 'try it on!' 
               "'In a few minutes, I rushed into Rock's tent, my body almost bent double, both hands pressed to my stomach, my face horribly distorted, groaning worse than I would have done, if they'd been sawing my leg off.' 
               "'Brandy-Major, a little brandy, for God's sake,' I cried. 'I'm almost dead with an attack of the cholera morbus!' 
               "Rock laid on his blankets, with his saddle for a supporter to his back, and in one corner of the tent lay the 'baggage' from off his pack-mule, very suspiciously covered with a blanket. He was singing 'old hundred' when I entered, but stopped short when he saw me. 
               "'Quick, Major, quick, or I shall die! Oh-oh-my God, Major, why don't you help me! Don't you see I'm dying?' 
                
               "As I said this, down I tumbled on his blankets, writhing and kicking, and accidentally I turned up one corner of the blankets near his head, revealing to my astonished(?) gaze, a bottle of champagne about half emptied. 
               "'Oh-thank you, Major-thank you!' I cried grasping the treasure; 'this will save my life!' 
               "'St-stop!' stammered the Major. 'It isn't brandy-it isn't good for the cholera morbus-it 'll make it worse, it's champagne!' 
               "'So it is!' I sighed a moment after, heaving the empty bottle on the ground; 'but it has done me good-I feel a great deal better Major. My dear Major, I do believe you have saved my life!' 
               "'Glad of it!' said he in a tone which implied 'I wish you was it.-Texas,' at the same time glancing uneasily at the 'baggage' in the corner upon which he saw I had fastened my eye. 
               "Just then a horrible groaning was heard outside the tent, then hurried steps, and in rushed George Ferris, groaning as if he hadn't another moment to live. 
               "'Bran-oh, brandy-doc, Major, I mean!' he yelled. 'Oh, brandy!' and down he tumbled, rolling and kicking. 
               "'I haven't a drop!' cried the Major, looking frightened. 
               "'Champagne is better than nothing!' said I, giving George a sly wink, and glancing at the 'baggage' knowingly. 
               "'Anything to cure this awful pain,' cried the sufferer. Oh, oh! OH! OH!' 
               "At each oh, he took a roll over and at the last, he brought up against the baggage, and convulsively clutched the blanket. 
               "Then the Major groaned, for as the blanket came off, a champagne basket was revealed, with ten white headed bottles standing in rows with straw comforters around them. He didn't say a word, but he groaned as he saw George draw a large knife, dexterously knock the top of the bottle off and apply the opening to his lips. When the bottle was about half empty, George paused to take breath. 
               "'I feel a great deal better!' said he, with a sigh of satisfaction. 
               "'I'm getting worse again,' said I, reaching out my hand for his bottle. 
                
               "Just then another awful groaning was heard and in rushed Purdy. 
               "'What! you got the cholera morbus too?' cried the Major. 
               "'Awful! Oh! oh! OH!' groaned Purdy, snatching a fresh bottle from the basket. 
               "'The Major now began to smell the mice. He saw that he was sold, and he determined to make the best of it. 
               "'Gentlemen,' said he-'I'm darned ef I'm doctor to the whole regiment, but ef you like that medicine, you may have it ef you'll pay for it!' 
               "'Agreed,' cried we all in a breath. 'What do you ask for it?' 
               "'Five dollars a bottle!' 
               "'Go in, boys, go in!' was the cry, and we were soon making 'old sogers' out of these bottles. And, unlike most doctors, we found the Major wasn't afraid of his own medicine. You may well believe there was a 'time' in that tent that night; we made it ring again! Now, wasn't that extracting champagne from a rock, Ernest?" 
               Receiving no reply, Hilton took a second look at Cramer, and found that he was asleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII 
               ANOTHER day had dawned upon the hero of this history. Hilton had not yet turned out, for soldiers off duty love sleep, as well as a miser loves gold, but Cramer was up and dressed, ready for his morning's walk with Miss Clifford, but as it was not yet time to go, he sat down to answer some letters. As he did this, a lively tap at the door was heard, and in tripped Lizzie Laurel in her new, long dress. What an alteration it made. In truth, she did now look like a woman! Her fair cheeks were rosy with a blush, her eyes were brighter and saucier than usual, and as she tripped forward, gaily lifting up her dress to keep from treading on it, she cried: 
               "You won't call me a girl now, Mr. Cramer, will you? See, I have discarded pantalettes and short dresses for ever!" 
               "So I perceive, Miss Laurel!" said Cramer, bowing in a very respectful manner. 
               "Why don't you call me Lizzie, as you always do?" said the girl, noticing his altered manner. 
               "Because you are a young lady, now, a girl no more!" said he, quoting the words she had used the day before. 
               "Mr. Cramer, please call me Lizzie, and speak as you used to do. If you talk to me so coldly, because I've put on this dress, I'll not wear it an hour! I'll go and put on my short dresses, so I will!" 
               The beautiful girl pouted out her rosy lips, and her dark eye looked liquid, as if a tear was gathering in it. 
               "Don't cry, Lizzie,-I was only in a joke!" said Ernest, kindly. "But you really do look well in that dress. I never thought it could so alter and improve your appearance. What a little woman you are grown!" 
               Lizzie blushed, but it was the blush of pleasure. It pleased her to hear herself called beautiful; she was flattered and delighted with the flattery. And as Ernest gazed upon her he sighed, for he saw to what dangers her beauty and her love of admiration exposed her in a city like this, where libertines are held at a premium in society. 
               "Ah, there you are sighing again, Mr. Cramer!" cried the sweet girl, resuming her look of gaiety and mischief. "Any man that sighs as often as you do, must be in love!" 
               "I wonder then that you don't sigh, Lizzie; for, if I'm not very much mistaken, you are a little in love yourself!" 
               "Me! oh, what makes you think so, Mr. Cramer?" cried the lovely girl, blushing deeper than ever. 
               "Because I thought that you looked very archly at my friend, the Lieutenant, last night!" 
               "What! Mr. Hilton? Mercy, Mr. Cramer, I never thought of him five times in my life. He, indeed!-no, sir, I don't love him!" 
               A crash, like a pitcher broken by being dropped on the floor, was heard from the bed-room adjoining the parlor, the door of which was closed. 
               "What is that?" cried Lizzie. 
               "I guess Mr. Hilton heard you, Lizzie, and has broken the pitcher in despair!" 
               "Mr. Hilton! Is he there?" 
               "Yes, Lizzie; he came home with me last night: I think it probable he heard your remark!" 
               "Oh, my gracious! what a little fool I am! He always hears what I say!" cried Lizzie, hurrying from the room. 
               No sooner did the door close behind her than the bed-room door opened, and Hilton popped out his head, which evidently hadn't made the acquaintance of the hair-brush or comb yet, that morning. 
               "Broke your pitcher, Ernest!" 
               "How, Harry?" 
               "I was just pouring out water in the wash-bowl, and, happening to hear my name mentioned by that little beauty, I stopped to listen-forgot about having the pitcher in my hands, and out it slipped-down it came, and you have a map of China, and an illustration of the inundation of the Nile, on your carpet in here!" 
                
               "Well, never mind that. I'll ring for more water: you look as if you needed a little! What's the matter-you look flushed. I hope what you heard Lizzie say, hasn't agitated you?" 
               "No, not a bit. I'm always flushed when I first rise; a kind of rush of blood to the head, I believe!" 
               "From the heart, in this case!" cried Cramer, laughing. Then looking at his watch, he added-"Hurry and dress, Harry. I've ordered an early breakfast, for I'm engaged to take a walk this morning, you know!" 
               "So you are: I had forgotten!" 
               "Won't you invite Lizzie, and go along?" asked Cramer. "She looks like an angel this morning, in her long dress!" 
               "That's a fact, she did look well!" said the soldier. 
               "Hallo! Then you saw her, eh? I begin to see how you broke the pitcher, my boy! That wash-stand is a very convenient stepladder to help one to look through the window over the door. Ah, ha, my boy, that's the way! Well, you didn't hear very good news, did you?" 
               "Now quit bantering me, Ernest, and I'll let you alone!" 
               "I will, if you'll confess the truth!" 
               "What truth?" 
               "Why, that you're over head and heels in love with Lizzie Laurel!" 
               "Poh, Ernest, you don't know what you are talking about!" 
               "Yes I do; and you don't dare to deny the 'soft impeachment' either!" 
               Hilton made no reply, but hurried to dress himself, as a smoking hot breakfast, with 'plates for two,' was brought in at that moment by a waiter. 
               About an hour later, a very well dressed gentleman was escorting a young lady, who was not only well dressed, but very handsome. The young gentleman made no pretensions to good looks, but out of respect for the lady, probably, he had dressed himself with most unauthorlike authorlike care and neatness. I need not inform the reader that one was La Belle Serena, the other Ernest Cramer. 
               As they walked on, the lady, better acquainted in the locality than Cramer, pointed out various of the princely dwellings, and named those who resided in them, giving, in many cases, their histories, with a freedom which would not have been pleasantly flattering to the subjects, had they been present to hear them. 
               "That building," she said, pointing to a showy edifice, fronting on University Place, "was built by a retired pawnbroker. I never look at it but I think of the tears and sighs of the widow and orphans, for from them the base, legalised robbers filch their spoils. He has a coat of arms on his coach-panel, but not a suitable one!" 
               "It should be three balls!" suggested Cramer. 
               "No, it should be the head of a Hyena, or a Vampire. But look at the house nearly opposite, still more showy. It is owned by Mr. Smythe Klurk, a man that used to drive a hack for a living. He married a woman, who was at the time a kitchen drudge in the house where he boarded; but shortly after her marriage, an aunt of hers, who was immensly wealthy, died, and she fell heir to all the property, no other relative being alive. This elevated her in every way. She is now at the head of the ton. She has the best seat in the opera, rides in the richest carriage in the city, and were you ever to say kitchen to her, she would frown you out of existence. She tortures French, can play four tunes on the piano, and is accomplished. Oh, you ought to see her put on airs in company. It would make you laugh outright, even if Lord Chesterfield was by, with his rules of polite behavior in his hand!" 
               "Whose house is this?" asked Cramer, as they turned a corner, and observed a house built a little back from the street, and surrounded by an ornamental garden. 
               "Ah, it is owned by a wealthy Englishman. He is an old bachelor-has no end to his wealth. I have heard that he is worth eight or ten millions, and has not a relative in this country!" 
               "It is singular that he does not marry. Why does he have so large a house?" 
                
               "There are many reports about him; but I never listen to them!" 
               Ernest saw by the slight blush which gathered like sunlight on a lily over her fair cheek, that delicacy which would not permit her to freely answer his question, and he asked no more. 
               Their walk, however, was of more interest to themselves than its description will be to the reader; therefore, we will leave them, and turn to another and far different scene: we will see how Judas Iscariot Arnold fares in the mansion of "His Eminence." 
               We left Judas Iscariot Arnold senseless in the apartments of "His Eminence," his insensibility principally produced by the quantity and quality of the wine which he had imbibed. No sooner had he fallen to the floor, than His Eminence, by a sign, caused the dancers to disperse, and when they had retired, he bade the servant remove the drunken man to bed. 
               "To which room, your Eminence?" 
               "The Blue, of course-he is a distinguished guest!" said the priest. 
               "Shall I alter any thing? It was dressed for the reception of the Lady Angelique, as your Eminence is aware. It has not been altered since she left!" 
               A flush of crimson rose to the priest's brow as the servant said this. What could cause it? Pleasant or unpleasant memories connected with her whose name had just been mentioned? Be patient, perhaps we'll learn by and bye. 
               "Nothing need be altered-let him see the full extent of our voluptuousness," replied the priest. He added in a low tone-"Such as he can be pleased and corrupted most easily by things which appeal to the grosser passions. He is an animal, after all, nothing but an animal!" 
               The sun had risen ere Arnold awoke next morning. When he opened his eyes, the light of day was stealing softly and rosily into the room through curtains of pink lawn, which added a rich and mellow hue to the various objects which met his eye. The furniture was of the richest kind. The walls, instead of being papered or plastered, as chambers usually are, were hung with heavy drapery of blue velvet. Along these, and in various parts of the room, were pieces of statuary so finished as almost to resemble life itself. But these were of the most voluptuous cast. Cupid and 
                     Pysche
                     Psyche
                  ; Susannah and the elders; Venus rising from the bath; Eve plucking the apple from the tree of knowledge; Diana and Endymion; and other pieces of a like character met his eye. A murmur of falling waters fell upon his ear, and as he gazed toward the farther side of the room, he saw what appeared to be a garden of shadowy bowers, and amid a field of roses, a bright and sparkling fountain threw its glittering spray up from a marble basin. 
               "Is this real, or am I still dreaming?" he muttered to himself, pressing his hot brow with both hands. 
               But the noise of the dashing water, and a desire to cool his dry and burning lips, made him rise, and when he had passed across a carpet so soft that it yielded no sound to his heavy step, he found that the arbors were paintings upon a wall in an alcove of the room, and that the fountain was a marble bath, surrounded by large pots of roses and other flowers. Soap, towels, and other conveniences of the toilet were lying on a table near, and on a broad sofa of crimson velvet, lay a snow white flannel bathing gown, and a dressing gown of cassimere. 
               The man looked around him in pleased astonishment. "This is living like a prince," he muttered. 
               Then, without more ado, he betook himself to the bath, which he found to be of temperate heat, and after a little while he came forth renewed in his feelings, with scarce a vestige of the headache left. As he paused at the toilet table to arrange his hair, he found, that even the headache had been provided against, for a bottle of hock stood there in an ice-pail, and with a label attached, reading thus: "Hock and Soda, according to Byron, is an infallible cure for the headache. Vide Don Juan." 
               He smiled as he read this, and took the medicine. He then dressed, and wandered around the room from statue to statue, admiring the lovely but too voluptuous figures, but startled on hearing the door open, he turned and beheld the servant who had waited upon the priest and himself the night before. 
               "If your Excellency pleases, his Eminence awaits you at breakfast," said the man. 
               "My Excellency? Jove, but honors come apace in this service!" muttered Arnold to himself, adding, to the servant in a louder tone- 
               I am ready-I will follow you to the presence of his Eminence!" 
               In a moment after he was ushered into a small room, where his Eminence was seated beside a marble centre-table, engaged in reading a morning paper. He bore no mark of the previous evening's debauch-looked as calm and serene as if he had never tasted wine, except in the sacramental cup; as if his mind had never descended to plot mischief, mingle in earthly scenes and passions, or for a moment forgotten the high calling indicated by his priestly garb. 
               "I hope you rested well!" said he to Arnold, as the latter entered the room. 
               "I only awoke a short time since, and slept in a land of dreams Shakspeare says that 'dreams murder sleep,'. but I'm willing to have my sleep murdered if it could always be slain by such sweet visions!" 
               "Pray what were your dreams?" asked the priest. 
               "I dreamed that I was in Paradise with the beautiful houris of a Mahomedan Heaven dancing in celestial loveliness around me, each only striving to win me for her own-it was indeed a heaven!" 
               "Heaven is seen mostly in dreams!" said the priest, with a sarcastic smile. Then turning to the servant, he added: "Dennis, bring in breakfast-I breakfast rather earlier than usual. I expect company soon!" 
               "A hint for me to get through soon and travel," thought Arnold. 
               The table was soon covered with a slender but choice repast, and almost in silence the two broke their fast. After they were through, his Eminence gave Arnold a few more instructions regarding his actions and further interviews, and enjoining secrecy as to what he had seen and heard, upon him, dismissed him. 
                
               After he had departed, the priest turned to Dennis and asked. 
               "Is any one waiting an audience?" 
               "Yes, Eminence. An Italian name, Corvi del Onda!" 
               "Remove the fragments, then bid him come in!" 
               In a short time, a swarthy looking lean figured man was introduced into the room, who knelt before the priest, and as he kissed the skirt of his black robe, asked his blessing. 
               With calm dignity, the priest blessed him, and bade him rise. 
               "You sent for me, Eminence!" said the man, bowing his head numbly. 
               "Yes, Corvi! The Church has need of you!" 
               The Italian made the sign of the cross on his breast, and reverently said-"Her will be done, for I am hers, soul and body!" 
               "You are a faithful servant, Corvi," continued the priest-"I have marked your devotion, and it shall not go unrewarded!" 
               "Eminence, you are too kind to him who is not worthy to kiss your feet!" 
               "How stands your daughter, the beautiful Desca, toward the Church?" 
               The Italian started at the name, and looking at the priest with a keen, wondering gaze, murmured, too low to be heard by him-"Not her-not her: she is my only child: a wife was enough to give to the cause!" 
               "I did not understand you, Corvi! How does Desca stand affected in this land of heresies and temptation?" said the priest, impatiently. 
               "She is a good Catholic, Eminence. She tells her rosary each morn and eve, and prays often to the Holy Virgin!" 
               "That is well. I have a work for her. The Church needs her services!" 
               A look of agony passed over the features of the Italian, and he murmured louder than before, "Eminence, she is my only child!" 
               The priest smiled sarcastically, and replied: "Art not thou sworn to yield thyself, and all that is thine, to the Church?" 
               "Yes, Eminence; but forgive me; I love my daughter!" 
                
               "That's right; no harm will befal her. I intend only that she shall be an attendant, or companion, to a widow lady, who will arrive here from the South in a few days, and whom I wish watched!" 
               "Desca will make but a poor spy, Eminence. She is as guileless and all as unsuspecting as an infant!" 
               "So much the better. I do not intend that she shall know for what she is employed: when she is unsuspecting, she will be unsuspected!" replied the priest. 
               "Can no harm befal her, Eminence?" asked the man hesitatingly. 
               "None; she will be under my own supervision. The lady is a daughter of the Church; but she is very wealthy, and I fear she may make some improper match. I wish some one near her who can let us know who visits her, or whether she forms any attachment!" 
               "My daughter is at your service, Eminence," said the man with a sigh. "When will she be wanted?" 
               "I will let you know on the morrow. Here is a purse containing one hundred dollars. Get her a neat, genteel wardrobe at once!" 
               The priest waved his hand for the man to retire. 
               The servant came in again in a few minutes' and said: "A lady waits below, Eminence!" 
               "Her name?" 
               "Mrs. Laurel, Eminence!" 
               "Shew her hither: yes, I sent for her!" 
               When the lady, a fine looking, middle-aged woman, appeared, she bent a knee to the floor, and murmured: "Your blessing, holy Eminence!" 
               Again, with that bland and serene dignity which I have so often alluded to, the hypocrite invoked the blessing of Almighty God on the kneeling woman; then with a gentle kindness he raised her, and bade her be seated. 
               "I sent for you, fair sister," said he in a kind tone, "to inquire if you have room for a boarder, whom I daily expect in the city?" 
               "I would make room, Eminence,-I would manage to offend one of my present boarders, to make room for one of your Eminence's recommendation! I have one who has often offended me, by his slanders against our Holy Church. I mean to get rid of him soon!" 
               "You mean Ernest Cramer?" 
               "Yes, Eminence!" 
               "You must do nothing to offend him; I wish him to remain where he is. Yes, you must use every inducement to make him remain!" 
               "But, Eminence, I have discovered that my daughter is in love with him: she is young and foolish-of a warm and ardent nature, and-" 
               "You fear for her virtue!" said the priest, seeing that she hesitated to speak what she meant. 
               "Yes, Eminence." 
               "Then fear not. Heretic though he is, and an enemy to our Church, he has a sense of honor that will prevent him from doing harm to an innocent maiden. Your daughter is handsome, I believe!" 
               "Very beautiful, though INo, she is a rich Southern widow. She comes North to look for a husband, I think; but this must not be spoken by you. I have been written to by a friend to get her a genteel boarding-house, and have thought it best to recommend you!" 
               "Ah, Eminence, you are too gracious! Is the lady a Catholic?" 
               "She is a daughter of the true Church! You will prepare for her; but remember you must not disturb Cramer. I have plans for his conversion, which must not be crossed!" 
               "Eminence, I obey your will in all things!" 
                
               "All?" murmured the priest in a low whisper-so low that she could not hear it, and a licentious look gathered in his countenance' as he gazed upon the full proportions of a form which thirty-five summers had served rather to ripen than to injure. "All?" he whispered, as he saw a blush mantle her comely features when she met his warm gaze. "All?" he whispered, as he saw her fine form tremble slightly, and her full bosom beat quicker beneath that gaze. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               IT was night again. A large hall, or room, capable of containing at least four or five hundred people, was draped in solemn black. On a table covered with black serge lay paper and writing materials. On each side of this long table were placed twelve arm-chairs, and each one was cushioned with black. At the head of the table was a kind of dais, or raised throne; it also being draped in black. Everything in the room wore the same chilling, death-like color. Not a soul is in it; it seems cold, solemn, gloomy, like some home of the ghostly dead. This, reader, is a room where more vile plotting is going on each week than Americans would endure, if they were only awakened to it. It is known to the Jesuits as 
                     The Hall of the Convocation of the Twenty-four Elders.
                  
                
               Here once each week-oftener, if by special order of the Jesuit Chief or General, meet the "Twenty-four Elders," as they are termed,-a chosen body of Jesuit priests, whom the Chief advises with, and who have charge of different departments in the interest of the Order. The room, I said a moment ago, was vacant. Hark! you hear a slow and measured tramp, which keeps solemn time to a deep swelling chaunt of human voices. A door at the lower end of the room opens, and at the head of two ranks of priests appears "His Eminence," he bearing a small black crucifix in his hand-each of the others carrying a candle placed in an ebony candlestick. As they approach the table, continuing the chaunt, they separate, one rank to the right, the other to the left, till each is opposite his chair. Then, as his Eminence mounts the throne, each takes his chair, placing the candle before him. The door has been closed behind them; the chaunt is still-though twenty-five human beings are there, you can scarcely hear a breath. But the silence is broken. The man whom we know as "His Eminence," rises, and reaching out the black crucifix over their heads, says in a deep, sonorous voice: 
               "Brothers and elders of the secret Order of Jesus, we will pray for the success of the cause!" 
               Then in the same deep and solemn voice, raising the ebon crucifix high toward Heaven-he prayed: 
               "Hear us, Triune God! Hear us, Blessed Virgin! Hear us, Michael, Archangel of Heaven! Hear us, Holy Apostles, and all ye Saints and Martyrs! Bless ye our Order-spread ye our light till we illuminate the earth. Crush our enemies-aid us, make us wise and all powerful, that we may attain the end which is the good of the Church! Amen!" 
               "Amen!" rolled in a deep murmur, like a wave in a sea-girt cavern, from every lip in that tomb-like room. Then his Eminence continued: 
               "Brothers and elders, we pronounce the Holy Convocation of twenty-four elders in session. Each in turn will make his report, and then we will consider other matters!" 
               The first man on his right arose, and making the sign of the cross, ere he spoke, said: 
               "Eminence-the cause is progressing. In the district confided to my care, we have complete control of the education of the children. We have got our own teachers in the Public Schools, and my congregation are under good discipline! Praised be the Lord. Amen!" 
               "Amen," rolled solemnly through the echoing room from lip to lip, as the speaker seated himself. 
               The next arose. 
               "Eminence," said he-"the labor in my field is hard. My district, as your Eminence is aware, is in the Eleventh Ward, and the secret societies of Americans there have numerous branches and many adherents. And their addresses and books and certain other movements, tend much to retard the action of those who are devoted to the good cause. We must do something to crush them, or they will crush us! They mock our ceremonies, ridicule our pretensions, falsify our statements. They are united, they aid each other, and oppose us. They weaken our power, for they make converts from our ranks. May God and all the Saints and Martyrs crush them. Amen!" 
               "Amen," rolled again like an echo through the room. 
               Thus each of these elders told his tale, all pretty much upon the same point and having a similar bearing. Then his Eminence, who had listened attentively, arose and said: 
               "Brothers and elders, we have listened to the reports, and while pleased with some, have been pained with others. We commend to you to be more vigilant and active. Remember the principle that 'the end justifies the means,' and let no opportunity escape you. Brother Ignatius in his report, spoke truly, that the advancement of our cause is retarded by these INFAMOUS SECRET SOCIETIES OF AMERICANS, men who are opposed to our religion, who by some fatal mischance, have discovered our intentions to build up an empire of the Church in this vast and resourceful country, and who will use every effort to thwart our aims. Brother Ignatius spoke truly when he said they must be crushed, or we shall be! We are taking means to crush them. And the way to do it, is to bring them into disrepute. One who is most active amongst them, whose whole heart, soul and body seem devoted to the advancement of their order, and the spread of their principles, is at this moment under my eye, and we are spreading the net which shall ensnare him. If it succeeds, and it cannot fail, we will strike a blow which shall penetrate the very heart of that Order!" 
               "Amen!" arose again, in that solemn echo which rolled from wall to wall of the black-draperied room. The priest spoke on. 
               "Yes, foremost in the ranks of that order, I find a young man possessed of more talent than prudence, whose heart is enwrapped in its advancement. He has many friends, but in a general wish for reform, he has not alone attacked us, but has divided his efforts against the social vices of the day. This lessens his strength, and adds to the number of his enemies. Were he battling against us alone, we might have double reason to fear him. But his pen is directed against not only the thieves and gamblers, but against those who, seated in high office, fail to fulfil their duties. He has raised and is raising enemies by this; and from these, and with these we must crush him. Our plans are laid. We do not hold the office of General of the Order of Jesus, in the western world, as a sinecure place. No-when we accepted it, we weighed our responsibilities well, and considered our labors. And we will fulfil our high duties to the latter, by the help of God and his holy Angels." 
               "Amen!" arose from every lip. 
               "Brothers," continued his Eminence, "next week our plans shall be laid before you. We shall then ask your advice and counsel further. If ye have gifts for our Treasury, ye will now produce them!" 
               A bustle amongst the priests ensued, and soon before each one was laid a pile of money of all kinds. Coppers, sixpences, shillings, quarters, gold pieces and bank bills, were laid out, just as in the "Poor Boxes" and other manners of contribution, it had been received. 
               When this was done, "His Eminence" pronounced a benediction in Latin, and then resuming the chaunt with which they entered, they all arose and left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               HARRY HILTON-dined with Ernest Cramer on the same day that the latter took the morning walk with "La Belle Serena." 
               "I think," said he, as he lighted his cigar after dinner, "that I might as well take up my quarters here altogether, Ernest! I spend more than two-thirds of my time with you!" 
               "I wish you would, Harry. I would gladly share my apartments with you, and feel amply rewarded by the pleasure of your society." 
               "Are you serious, Ernest?" 
               "I seldom say anything which I do not mean," replied Cramer. "And to convince you, let me send for your baggage at the hotel, and instal you regularly here!" 
               "Why, Ernest, really I-" 
               "Poh! No excuses, my friend; I want you to come. I want you to pay a visit with me to-night!" 
               "Where? To Japonica Place?" 
               "No, to another of the sinks of infamy which disgrace this city. I wish to gather items for a new series of articles with which I hope to arouse the attention of the people to the evils I allude to!" 
               "I'm with you, Harry. I like the excitement and adventure attendant upon these researches of yours!" 
                
               Again the shades of evening had mantled our great city. The long rows of street-lamps were lighted, and from these and many an uncurtained window came light enough to render walking quite as pleasant as it would be by day. The hour was early-not later than nine, when Cramer and Hilton, both wrapped in cloaks, with fur caps drawn well down on their heads, entered Broadway. As usual, at this hour, a perfect stream of various humanity was eddying along its broad channel-a mixture of all kinds. The man of business hurrying homeward; the stranger sauntering along; the courtezan on the tramp for victims; the thief and the beggar, each jostling the other. 
               "We'll see the Broadway sights for an hour or so; it is too early yet to visit the place that I intended to go to to-night!" said Cramer, as Hilton locked arms with him, so that they should not be separated. "And first," he continued, "let's go down here. This saloon is the gamblers' head-quarters!" 
               As he said this, Ernest entered a saloon, which displayed on its sign the name of - -'s Restaurant. It also notified the visitor that there were private rooms for gentlemen and ladies, back, where they could be supplied with oysters, wine, game, and all the delicacies of the season. Passing down the steps, (for it was in a basement,) they at once found themselves in a long and elegant saloon, lined on one side with curtained stalls, and fronted on the other with a long bar, upon either end of which stood a glittering array of decanters filled with wines, brandies and liquers of all kinds. Four white aproned bar-keepers, and at least a dozen waiters in the saloon, would have signified that they did some business, but the ringing of bells, the clatter of plates in the little stalls, the calls for "waiter," and above all, the forty or fifty "members" at the bar, indicated that they did a very large business. Hilton and Cramer slipped quietly into one of the stalls, where they could observe the visitors without being noticed themselves, and calling for some stewed oysters, &c., prepared to spend a half hour or so in inspecting the fashions there. 
               They had not been seated long, when Hilton, in a low tone, called Cramer's attention to Manton, who, with three or four others, had just entered. 
               "Yes-and he has some new victim in tow!" said Cramer. "That man is a stranger in the city. He has a Westernish look, and probably is what the gamblers would term a fat pigeon, for he wears jewelry enough to stock a show-case in Tenney's, almost. Look, there are three of the sharks around him. Manton calls for champagne, too-he'll spend his money freely only when he is sure of a harvest to repay it.' 
                
               "By the man that invented powder, I know that man!" said Hilton. "Ernest, keep easy, you'll see the biters bit. I know that man, sure! When I first glanced at him his face seemed familiar, and now I'm confident that it is he!" 
               "Who?" 
               "Thad Maynard, a Texan gambler and fighting man, who followed the army all through Mexico. He did considerable fighting on private account-was death on the greasers, and whenever we camped he was sure to have a faro and monte bank in the neighborhood. That is him; and I'll stake my existence that Manton and his gang get skinned alive to-night!" 
               "I'd like to see it done!" 
               "So would I, Ernest. Suppose we return to your room, and you again become Senor D'Albro-we then can follow, or join them!" 
               "Agreed, but we must wait till they leave, for you would be recognised by Manton, and I don't wish you to be seen by him, until I'm rigged in my disguise!" 
               "But we may miss them? How can we find where they go when they leave here?" 
               "Hark-Manton is proposing something. There it is, they are going up to the WIDOW's, to show their friend the fashions in the upstair drinking hells. I wonder what name he goes by-he is evidently playing the green-horn. See how he carries it out-he is good at the cards?" 
               "He skinned everybody that played with him, and only let his favorites win!" 
               "There they go-come, Harry-to my room to dress, and then we'll follow them and see it out!" 
                
               It was half an hour later. Hilton and Cramer, or rather Senor D'Albro, for he had assumed his disguise, entered a house in Broadway, not far from Canal street. They entered without ringing a bell or knocking, though the genteel-looking door-plate would have signified that this was a private residence. They passed along a narrow, dimly lighted hall, and up a pair of stairs in the rear, both hall and stairs carpeted thickly, so that their footsteps made no noise They turned to the right on reaching the head of the stairs, and entered a room which was glittering with the light of a large chandelier reflected from numerous mirrors and pictures. Though the back windows would not have opened to any thing except the dead wall of a manufactory, they were closely shuttered and curtained with heavy damask. The large room was furnished with extravagant elegance. Sofas, chairs and tables of the richest material, were carelessly arranged around; and in one corner, a neat bar, covered with decanters and their sparkling contents, was visible. Behind this stood a woman, dressed very handsomely in half mourning. She was stately, stoutish in figure, but not ungraceful, and her features were fine, though not expressive either of gentleness or purity. Her color was too high for Nature, and to a close observer, there were man little signs to show that her beauty was more artificial than natural Her age, therefore, would not be easily guessed at. She was at least forty, and might come in under the head of the beauties described as "fat, fair and forty." She was busily engaged in mixing sundry drink on scientific principles; and, as each glass was filled, she placed it upon a salver held by a pale, delicate, but not unhandsome creature a little girl who could not be over thirteen years of age. She 
                  looked sad and sorrowful; and when the woman said, 
               "Sis, take them in to the gentlemen in the front parlor," she moved along mechanically, sighing as she went. She did not even turn her head when Cramer and Hilton entered, but "the Widow's" bright eyes were more attentive, and she smiled blandly when she saw Hilton's bright buttons. 
               "You are welcome, gentlemen!" said she-"of the army, I presume?" 
               "I am, but my friend is a Spaniard," replied Hilton. 
               "Ah, a Spanish gentleman? I do so love the cavaliers of that nation! Does your friend understand English?" 
               "Yes, partially, and speaks it a little, but imperfectly. We will take a glass of wine, if you please, Mrs. Parsons!" 
                
               "Why, sir, you know me?" said the lady, as she turned and reached her plump hand, glittering with jewels, for a decanter. 
               "Who that 'travels' does not know you, madam? I have heard of your beauty, and the elegance of your saloon, and wished to see for myself." 
               "Ah, sir, you are a flatterer!" said the widow, vainly trying to blush through the paint. "Which wine do you prefer-here is some fine old port-there some sherry." 
               "Port, if you please," said Hilton. 
               "Mother," said the pale, sorrowful-looking girl, "the gentlemen in the front room want cigars." 
               Was it possible? Could a mother be so heartless as to rear up a young girl in the polluted air of a fashionable saloon-to rear her up in her young beauty, under the eyes of rakes and libertines-to expose her to temptation, insult, ruin, and infamy? To expose her at that tender age to all this? Could she not see how the fumes of tobacco smoke, the reeking atmosphere of liquor, the late hours, and unnatural labor, were killing that poor child? Could not that pale, meek face, and those low, pleading sighs, make her feel for her child? 
               So thought Ernest Cramer, as he gazed upon her, and pitied her. A hearty laugh from the front parlor was heard now, and the young men recognised the voice of Manton. The door being half open, they entered, requesting the widow to send in the wine to them. 
               "Ah, Lieut. Hilton, and Senor D'Albro! Delighted to see you, gentlemen! Let me introduce my friend, Mr. Billings, from Kentucky, gentlemen!" cried Manton, as he saw them. 
               "How do you do, Mr. Billings?" said Hilton, with a glance at Maynard, which told him that his secret was safe. "Old Kentuck is a great State." 
               "It's the snortinest State in the hull Union for fast horses, purty girls, and sharp rifle shootin'," responded Thad Maynard, alias Mr. Billings. 
               "You may well say that last. I saw some of their practice in Mexico-" 
                
               "What! 've you been to Mexico a fightin' of the greasers? Did you ever meet my son, Thad, out there?" 
               "I can't say that I remember meeting any one of the name of Billings out there." 
               "Wall, that's queerious! He was thar, sure, and I know it by this token. I gin him a drove o' horses to speculate on; he sold the horses, and two of my best niggers, and deposited the money in one of their cussed banks, the Bank of Monte, I think he told me, and I've never seen hide or hair of it since." 
               "That was a bad look-out," said Manton, smiling. 
               "Yes, and I'm done with banks ever since. Thar's the bank I trust in!" replied the quondam Kentuckian, drawing a large black pocket-book, apparently well filled, from his pocket. 
               "I expect the bank your son put his money in was somewhat similar to one or two banks in our city. We had a bank of Moses, but it failed: but then there is still a Pharaoh Bank here." 
               "What queerious names! I suppose Church folks owns 'em?" said the verdant Westerner. 
               "Yes," said Manton, "Quakers and Latter-day Saints. By the way, do the Church folks out your way ever read the history of the Four Kings,?" 
               "What's that?" 
               "Why, Mr. Billings, is it possible that you are a Kentuckian, and don't know that?" 
               "I don't know it by that name, at any rate!" 
               "Do you know what old sledge is?" 
               "Wall, I reckon yes. And I know what loo is, and eucher, too. I can play old sledge as well as any other he, except old Smith, and I mean to try him some time for a few." 
               "We never play much here, but suppose we get up a little game here to amuse ourselves for an hour or two?' said Manton. 
               "Wall, I'm agreeable, ef you don't go mor'n a half, ante, for I'm no hand to gamble." 
               "Neither am I," said Manton; "but I must see the widow, to see if she has cards." 
                
               As he said this, he went out into the other room, not for cards, for he had a marked pack in his pocket, but to tell the widow to close her door down stairs, so that no other visitors would come in to interrupt them. 
               "I've got a pigeon in there, green as grass and fat as butter," said he to the widow. 
               "Skin that shark alive, Thad," whispered Hilton to Maynard. "I'll back you-you're safe." 
               The Texan gambler only smiled; and such a smile, as the barkeeper said, when a customer drank a tumblerfull of fourth-proof without winking. 
               "You'll join us, won't you, gentlemen?" asked Manton of Hilton, D'Albro, and the rest, as he returned with a pack of cards in his hand. 
               "Excuse me and my friend!" said Hilton. "We will look on for a little while." 
               "But we want a four-handed game!" 
               "Perhaps some of those other gentlemen will play?" suggested Hilton. 
               One of them volunteered; the others, obedient to a hint given in a look by Manton, declined. 
               "You must; now do, Lieutenant. You see, we are only three!" 
               "Yaas, stranger, come in; I'll take you for a partner: you look sharp as a steel-trap. I guess we can make the liquors out o' them!" 
               "Well, but I warn you I am no player!" said Hilton, taking the seat. 
               "Then it's only fair you give me the first deal!" said Billings. 
               "Of course!" said Manton, handing the cards to him. 
               "What purty cards these be!" said Billings, examining them very closely, and shuffling them very awkwardly. As he looked and recognised marks which he knew, a quiet smile gathered on his face. The pack was shuffled, cut and dealt. The trump turned up, and behold it was a Jack!
                
                
               "Hooray for our side! There's one counted a'ready!" cried Billings. 
               "We've forgotten to put up our money!" said Manton quietly. 
               "So we have-thar's my half!" replied Maynard, heaving down a bright half dollar. 
               "Let's make the stake a V," said Manton. 
               "What! No; that would be gamblin', and I'm opposed to gamblin'!" said Billings. 
               "Pshaw! What is a five to men of means!" 
               "Well, a V. let it be! Our side 'll win sure!" said the Texan, drawing out that fat pocket-book and opening it slowly, so that every one could see how full it was. And the bills in it were not small, either. In truth, on examining it, the "green 'un" found he had nothing under a fifty. This, however, the "widow" very kindly consented to change, and the game went on. The hand was played, and the "green 'un's" won high, low, game, counting four on the start. 
               It then became Manton's turn to deal. He, too, turned up a Jack! Hilton, who, seated next to him, had the word, now "begged," to use a phrase of the game. Manton had a splendid "hand"; he was sure, as he thought, of making four: for he had the king, tray, queen and ten of trumps. 
               "I give you one!" he said. 
               "Hooray for our side!" shouted Maynard. I told you we'd win. Here's high and low," (throwing down the ace and deuce,) "and that, with the gift, and four before, puts us out. Stranger, take up your ten, and here is mine!" suiting his action to the word. 
               "Hadn't you better leave the money down. We'll double the stakes!" said Manton, smiling, as if he cared nothing about it. 
               "I don't like it, for it looks like gamblin', and I'm opposed to gamblin'; but if you insist on it, 'spose I can do it once more-once only!" 
               Hilton now had the deal, and not understanding the trick of turning up a jack, didn't follow the example of his predecessor. And had it not been for the "knowledge" of Maynard, they would have lost the game, for the hand was altogether "a chance" one. Now Manton had several good cards stowed away for use, but Maynard had also laid in a supply, and managed to play "high" and save "game." The other side were "low" and jack. Manton's partner next had a deal, and of course, he turned a jack. This game, in spite of Maynard's play, resulted in favor of Manton. 
               "Let's play poker, that's a better game than this!" said the Kentuckian, apparently a good deal put out by his loss. 
               "I don't know how to play it!" said Hilton. 
               "Then let it be two-handed. I want to win my money back from you, old hoss!" cried Maynard, looking at Manton. 
               "You'll have a chance, I'm agreed!" said Manton, smiling again, for now he thought the game was all in his own hands. 
               Cramer and Hilton now watched "dog fight dog," with eager intensity, as also did the others. 
               In a little while Manton found that if his Kentucky friend was green in some things, he wasn't green at the game of poker; and to his utter astonishment, after playing about an hour, he was forced to stop. He had lost one thousand dollars, and had no more with him. The widow proffered a loan, but he would not accept it, saying that he was in bad luck, and couldn't play any more at that game. 
               "I'm opposed to gamblin', but this 'ere looks darnedly like it!" said Mr. Billings, putting his winnings into his pocket. I never won so much before, in all my born days!" 
               "You're in such luck, you ought to try a heavier game," said Manton. "Suppose you try faro: I know a man that has a $10,000 game up; and if your luck keeps up, you can win all that, too!" 
               "Thunder! you don't say so? Whar is he? I'm in for it now; and though I'm opposed to gamblin', I'd like to make that ten thousand on top o' this!" cried the Kentuckian. 
               "Let's adjourn, then, to his place. It isn't late. Widow, we'll take a bottle of champagne before we start!" 
                
               The time-a week later. The scene-a private parlor in the Astor tor House. The characters-two with whom we have already made acquaintance, "GULIETTA" and "Desca del Onda." 
               The first was dressed with exquisite taste, in that most bewitching of all styles, "half mourning," showing herself, by her dress, to be a widow not averse to again becoming a wife, a kind of bashful struggle in appearance, between a wish to remember the dead, and a wish to again assume the snowy robes of a bride. She looked lady-like and well. Her dark eyes, fringed with ebon lashes, glossy and fine as the unwoven thread of the filmy cocoon, were looking dreamily toward DESCA, who, with her hands crossed over her palpitating bosom, stood before her. Desca had just entered, having been sent by her father to become the companion and maid of "Mrs. Montrose," who was represented as a widow from Mississippi, of immense wealth, who sought a change of climate and society in the north. As she had letters to a "Catholic Gentleman" of Eminence in the city, immediately upon her arrival from the south, at the Astor, he was sent for at her request, by the gentlemanly proprietors-and a story was told about the "rascally abolitionists," enticing away her two slaves whom she had brought north with her. Upon receiving this information, the Catholic gentleman at once offered to procure her a maid, and hence the appearance in this connection of Desca, the daughter of the Italian organ-grinder. The engraver, in the picture which accompanies this chapter, has well illustrated the appearance of both at this moment. 
               "You are commended to me by a very worthy and pious man," said the "widow" languidly, as she gazed at the beautiful young creature before her. "Do you think you can live happily with me?" 
               "Lady, you seem kind-if I can please you, I shall be happy, much happier than I have been for years-happier than I have been since I left dear Italy!" 
               "Dear Italy!" sighed Gulietta, and her lips quivered with the words. 
               For a moment she was silent, then raising her dark eyes to those of Desca, she said: 
               "I also am an Italian! When I am weary and tired you will sing me to sleep with one of the songs of our native land, will you not?" 
               "Oh, yes, lady! I love to sing, and above all, to sing the airs of Italy!" 
               "You are a good, sweet girl!" said she, whom we must now call Mrs. Montrose. And again she sighed as if strange thoughts passed through her bosom as she looked at Desca. 
               "Is your mother alive, child?" she asked. 
               "Alas, I never knew her! My father says she died when I was a babe, but I can only remember finding myself when I was old enough to walk, in the convent di Santa Clara!" 
               "Ah-in the convent di Santa Clara?" exclaimed the lady with a look of astonishment. 
               "Yes, lady!" replied Desca, wondering to see her new mistress turn alternately red and pale. 
               "How did you come to leave that holy place?" 
               "When I was about seven years of age my father took me away, and ever since, I've wandered about the world with him, sometimes almost rich, and then again very poor, very wretched!" 
               "Poor Desca! Does thy father love thee much?" 
               "Yes, lady-he has ever been kind to me as he could. All of his people love me." 
               "His people? Has he servants or associates?" 
               "He has many men and women in his employment, lady. They hire their organs and monkeys from him, and at night divide the proceeds of their day's collecting." 
               "Do they make much?" 
               "Sometimes a great deal, but very often nothing, when they have bad luck!" 
               Poor Desca did not understand the whole reason of the difference in the luck of the organ-grinders. She did not know that they were thieves as well as beggars, for her father had concealed this secret from her. Yet, so it was; and nothing from a silver spoon down to the one shoe kicked off by a playful baby, went amiss, if they could lay a hand on it. 
               The conversation was interrupted at this moment, by the entrance of a servant, who approached the lady, and bowing with that respect which wealth, real or supposed, always commands, handed her a card. 
               The blood rushed up to her very brow as she murmured, "Ah, his Eminence!" Then, in a louder tone, she said, "Request the gentleman to walk up." 
               In a few moments a firm, heavy step was heard, the door opened, and the Chief of the Jesuits entered. 
               "Ah, Eminence, I did not expect this honor, but you are most welcome." 
               "Thanks, good daughter! When a child of the true Church visits our city, it is our duty to aid and guard her," said the priest, taking a seat near her. 
               When his eye fell upon the lovely form of Desca, a look of pleased surprise flitted over his countenance, and a look of uneasiness gathered in the face of the lady when she saw the licentious expression with which he glanced at her beauty. 
               "This, then, is the maid that I commended?" he asked. 
               "Yes, Eminence. She has just arrived." 
               "Are you pleased with her?" 
               "Yes, Eminence, much. She seems a good child." 
               "I am pleased to hear so, and hope that she may prove faithful and true. Art a good Catholic, child?" 
               "Yes, your Reverence," said Desca, making the sign of the cross: "it is the faith of my father." 
               "And dost thou love thy father?" 
               "Yes, Reverence." 
               "That is well-see that thou obeyest him in all things, and as thou so doest, may God prosper thee!" 
               There was a deep and marked meaning in the words of the priest as he said this, and it did not pass unnoticed by the lady. She began from that moment to feel a kind of jealousy toward poor Desca, for, knowing from sad experience, the disposition and unscrupulous passions of the priest, she did not doubt but that Desca was already marked upon his list of intended victims. This to her was galling, for though she had herself ceased to be a favorite of the fickle priest, yet once for a brief time she had reigned supreme in his harem of beauties-had with fond folly thought that he loved her! And with woman's everlasting constancy, though cast from his side, and used used only as a tool to carry out his projects of ambition and revenge, she still loved him enough to feel jealous of even an admiring glance bestowed by him on another, in her presence. 
               The priest marked her uneasiness, and changed the subject. 
               "I have procured a most excellent boarding house for thee, daughter," said he, "and made all the arrangements for removing you to it whenever you choose." 
               "Thanks, Eminence! You are indeed very kind. I will go immediately." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               "WHAT on earth are you laughing so heartily about?" asked Cramer of Hilton, who was shaking the table whereon the former was writing. 
               "I'm reading this sketch of yours-'The Biter Bit'-it is so true to life! Ha! ha! I'm thinking of Maynard raking in Manton's money and saying, every time he won, in his dry way-'Drat the thing, but I'm in luck! I'm teetotally opposed to gamblin', but ef gamblin' pays this 'ere way, I can't help playin', ef it is against my own principles.' And then to see how he met each trick of theirs-I could hardly keep from laughing right out. I guess Mr. Manton won't 'pick up' another Kentuckian." 
               "I reckon not," said Cramer; "he lost fourteen thousand dollars that night. Well, I was glad to see it. If professed gamblers only gambled with and amongst each other-if shark would eat shark and let other fish alone-it is but little care that I'd take to oppose their movements. But it is because they are ever entrapping and robbing the unwary, leading innocence astray, bringing destruction on the young and promising, carrying desolation into the bosoms of happy families, that I war with them." 
               "You are right, Ernest. The little time I have spent with you convinces me more and more of the tremendous evils you are trying to oppose. But changing the subject, I've got to run down to the post-office. Can I do anything for you there?" 
               "Yes, if you please, Harry; there are three letters to mail; but don't be gone long; it is now five o'clock, and you know at seven I have an address to deliver to the Order, and you promised to go with me." 
               "I will hurry back. I wouldn't miss going there on any account But La Belle Serena, is not she to go? I thought you intended to invite her?" 
               "So I did; but in preparing the address, I have borne down so hard on her native land, and given John Bull so many left-handed compliments, that I fear I should hurt her feelings if she should hear them." 
               "Well, perhaps 'tis best. Bye-bye; I'll be back in half an hour." 
               The soldier now put on his hat and cloak, and whistling a stave of some army chorus, left the room. 
               Cramer again resumed his writing, but was doomed to another interruption; for in a few minutes his door opened, and Lizzie Laurel entered. She stepped so light, and he was so much engaged, that he did not hear her, and with a mischievous look in her eye, she advanced behind his chair, and peeped over his shoulder at what he was writing. Her countenance was bright when she first glanced upon the paper-her eye laughingly brilliant-but as she read a few lines, the color left her young cheek, a tear gathered in either eye, and her bosom heaved as a lake-born lily in a sudden storm. 
               "He loves another-he loves another!" she sighed. 
               He wrote on, not hearing or knowing that she was near. And her eye, though almost blinded with tears, still followed his pen, and drank in every word he wrote. "He is going to marry-he asks her hand, and tells her that his love is so deep, so fervent, that his life will a blank without her. Oh! that those words were writ to me!" sighed the girl to her own heart; and then, her feelings overcoming her, she burst into a flood of tears, and would have fallen to the floor, had not Cramer, startled by her sobs, turned in time to catch her in his arms. 
               "What is the matter, Lizzie? Why do you weep so? speak, dear Lizzie, speak!" 
               "Dear Lizzie?" sobbed the girl; "he said dear Lizzie, but he loves another!" 
               "What do you mean, Lizzie? Do not weep-has any one wronged you? Tell me, for all that a brother would do for a sister that will I do for you." 
               "I have only wronged myself!" sobbed the girl. "Forgive me, Mr. Cramer, I have read a part of that letter"-and she pointed to the table-"and you are going to leave us-going to marry." 
               Her sobs redoubled as she said this. Ernest felt as if he was in a fix There she was, her head resting on his breast, her lovely face bedewed with tears turned up towards his, her sobs shaking her delicate form as the breeze shakes the rain-beaten flower-and-as he kissed away her tears-he called her "dear Lizzie," and begged her to be calm. 
               In a little while, as a crying babe is lulled upon the bosom of its mother, Lizzie became more composed, and then blushing, she arose and took a chair close by Ernest's side. 
               "Lizzie," said he gravely, but kindly, "you have opened your heart to me this evening and shown me a picture which I did not dream of. I had thought you too young to love with a woman's love; I have ever looked upon you as a sweet little pet of a girl, but never have I encouraged such a feeling as love in your breast." 
               "I know it, Mr. Cramer; I alone am to blame; you have lived with us so long, and I have known you so well, I couldn't help loving you!" 
               "Then, Lizzie, for your sake as well as for my own, it will be best for me to leave here!" 
               "Oh no, Mr. Cramer, please do not-at least until-until-" (her voice hesitated and trembled as she spoke,) "you are married! Let me beg you to stay. I will never act so foolishly again-never by word or look renew this scene." 
               "And will you keep my secret, Lizzie? I may be refused by this lady." 
               "I will keep your secret, Mr. Cramer!" she replied mournfully; "but the lady will not refuse you-you will be-married, and I,-never shall. My mother is a Catholic, as you know, and I, though she couldn't make a good one of me before, will now turn Nun, become a Sister of Mercy, and-die." 
                
               Cramer was astonished to hear that girl so young, speak in a firm tone so plainly and unhesitatingly of her intended course. She seemed to have at once sprung into the woman-a woman in feeling, in strong resolves. Love doth indeed work wonders. 
               "No, Lizzie," said he in reply to her remarks, "do not in your youth and beauty cast yourself within the walls of a living tomb. Believe me, you will yet be happy." 
               She shook her head, but made no reply, except what could be understood from a half-suppressed sigh. 
               "I came into the room, sir," said she, after a moment's silence, "to tell you some news, but that letter drove it all out of my head. We have a new boarder who has just come. She has the back parlor and the room that adjoins yours." 
               "Who is she?" 
               "Mother says that she is a very rich Southern widow; her name is Montrose. She seems to be Spanish or Italian, and she has a maid with her who is one of the prettiest girls I ever saw. I expect this Southern lady will turn the heads of all the gentlemen in the house. She too, is very handsome and young." 
               "Has she no friends or relatives with her?" 
               "None but this maid." 
               "That is rather singular; but there's no accounting for these widows, they're wilful and wayward." 
               "She, seems very gay!" said Lizzie-"but there's some one coming-it is Mr. Hilton's step, please keep my folly secret, sir! I will try not to love you." 
               As she said this she passed out, meeting Hilton at the threshold of the door. He bowed and blushed, why, none but a timid man in love, can explain. 
               She, however, seemed to recover her spirits when she saw him, or else she forced an appearance of it, for she cried gaily, 
               "Mother has got a sweetheart for you, Mr. Hilton-such a pretty widow! Mr Cramer 'll tell you about her!" 
               "I wish your mother would give me you for a sweetheart!" muttered the young soldier, but she was half way down stairs before he spoke, and didn't hear him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV 
               IT was night, and in a large hall in the north-western part of the city was assembled a vast crowd, mostly composed of members of the "O. of U. A.," and of the fair Daughters of America. It was night, and the anniversary of the birth-day of George Washington, the chosen son of Liberty, the god-father of American Freedom The room was filled to its utmost capability. The glittering stars and rainbow hues of the beautiful regalia shone gaily in every part of the room, and hundreds of bright eyes and fair as well as manly faces were turned toward the speakers' stand, where Ernest Cramer had just risen to address them. His voice was low and tremulous, but ere he had spoken one sentence, by their kind applause they drove all fear and faint-heartedness from him, and his voice rose as he went on. These were his words: 
               "Brothers,-brothers by a tie dearer than that of consanguinity; for it is the tie of country, of patriotism, of Freedom's harmony, that binds us,-I rise before you, sad and faint-hearted, because I feel too incompetent to fulfil the duties you call upon me to perform. You have called me here to address my fellow-countrymen upon the anniversary CHRISTMAS of American Liberty. And I know not in what way to so condense the ten thousand themes connected with this glorious day, as to please myself and satisfy you. 
               "In selecting a name for your Chapter, brothers, you chose one which stands high upon the roll of fame-one of the greatest of the Naval heroes of the American Revolution. And as our Navy did much toward gaining our liberties, I will, if you please, glance with you briefly over its history, commencing with the first capture on record. 
               "In 1772, the English government had a schooner of war stationed on Long Island Sound, called the Gaspe, manned by a crew of twenty-seven men, and well equipped for service. Her commander was an insolent and overbearing man, who was very fond of exercising the right of search; a right we, Americans, ever have, and ever will consider wrong-a wrong which we are too proud to endure! On the 17th of June, 1772, a packet which plied between this city and Providence, named the Hannah, (after a blue-eyed Yankee girl, of course,) was chased by the Gaspe, and ordered to heave-to, that she might be examined! Captain Linzie, of the Hannah, was too much of a man to bend to this, and he pressed on sail, refusing to heave-to! For twenty-five miles the chase was continued; and then the Captain of the Hannah, who knew the channel well, took an inside passage among the reefs; and the Gaspe, in trying to follow, got aground! The packet soon arrived at Providence, in safety; and when the news of the chase was circulated, a strong excitement immediately arose. As soon as night came on, and darkness veiled their movements, sixty volunteers embarked from Providence wharf in boats; and ere midnight, the crew of the British schooner were prisoners, and the vessel was fired, and burned! The British government offered 1,000 sterling for the apprehension of the leader of that bold expedition, and 500 for any of the other parties; but traitors were scarce in those days, and gold couldn't buy them! 
               "The next naval incident, if such it may be called, was the Boston tea-party, where the white Indians, painted and disguised for the occasion, made Boston harbor their tea-pot, and invited John Bull to take tea with salt, instead of sugar, in the cup! And then, after that, the Chart of Freedom-the catechism of dear Liberty, the Declaration of American Independence, came before the world; was signed, adopted, and became immortal!
                
               "The first naval combat that took place after the battle of Lexington, was between the British armed schooner Margaretta, and a sloop from Machias, Maine, which, though manned by mere volunteers, and these but half armed, whipped her, and brought her into port, on the 9th of May, 1775, with a loss of twenty killed and wounded! 
               "After the Revolution had fairly got under headway, each State furnished nished a vessel or two, for a kind of combined navy, but there was little service of note performed by these vessels, until 1776, when, by the capture of British transports, which were bringing reinforcements here to their army, they served the cause of liberty with incalculable effect. 
               "The English, however, during the year 1776, swarmed along our coast with their numerous navy; and on the 4th of June, 1776, under the command of Commodore Parker, they commenced an attack upon Fort Moultrie, at Charleston, which lasted, off and on, for nearly twenty days, and which ended in the Americans sinking one of the English frigates, and driving off the rest! From this time, on, during the entire Revolution, our naval career was but a succession of triumphs. PAUL JONES carried our flag proudly to the very shores of England-broke through her famed wooden walls, and astonished the natives, in every sense of the word! He entered the enemy's ports. and fired their ships; fought the bloodiest naval battle ever recorded, and won a victory over an immensely superior force, in sight of their own shores, falsifying the proud boast that Britain was Queen of the Sea! It was not until 1779, that a regularly regulated naval force belonged to this country; until then our battles having been fought by privateers and French vessels loaned to us, by that government which gave us a Lafayette, and which has become a Republic, following our example, and dethroning the last tyrant, we may hope and pray, which may ever wear a crown in La Belle France! During this year, the old Constitution, the glorious old Ironsides, as our seamen loved to call her, was placed in service; that ship which has come out victorious from more battles than any other has ever been engaged in; a ship which seemed to be fated for good luck, and which is yet held in so much respect and reverence, that it is considered an honor to be one of her crew, even in these peaceful times! At this time, some young officers entered the service, whose names in after years rose high upon the list of fame. At this time PERRY, the father of the Commodore Perry, whom this Chapter is named after, commanded a privateer. At this time Barron, McDonough, Preble and Truxtun, Rogers, Porter and Murray entered the service, destined in a few more years to distinguish themselves in the Tripolitan war; a war, if I have not been misinformed, in which one member of Perry Chapter had a hand. A war which, though brief, was bloody and perilous; one in which, with a single misfortune, the loss of the Philadelphia, by her accidentally getting on a reef, was a second series of brilliant and gallant victories. And even in the loss of the Philadelphia, Yankee spirit shone out; for our gallant Decatur, aided by brave men, in the most intrepid manner, burned her in the enemy's own port rather than let her remain as a prize to an insolent foe! 
               "But when the war of 1812 opened, then commenced the era of naval glory for this country! This war was caused by aggression upon our Navy, by the insolence of the English in enforcing a search on board of our vessels for all men whom they chose to consider English born. The cowardly and treacherous assault upon the frigate Chesapeake, by the Leopard, was the forerunner of heavier work. The night encounter of the frigate President and an English ship, the Little Belt, which caused a heavy loss to the latter, helped the matter on. The year 1812 came in-war was declared, a war against insolence and oppression. The war began upon the ocean, and was opened with several engagements, in every case victorious on our part. The Constitution now began to be noted. Her first capture was the Guerriere, of superior force, but whipped in a brief action. and sent to the bottom of the blue sea! The action has been described by many historians, but I think that the story of a French captain describing it, is one of the best I ever heard. If you will permit me, I will tell it in his own words. 
               "Shentilmens," said he, "I shall tell you one ver goot story. Ze time of ze last wor you Yankee Doodle mens have wiz ze John Bull mens, in 1814, I waz in Havre wiz one leetle brig, and I sink I shall sell some Jamaique, some brand, and some ozzer kind of wines to you Yankee Doodle mens. So I load my leetle brig wiz beaucoup de Jamaique and brand, and I go to sea for to go to Boston. 
               "I sail some several day wiz fair wind, and one day ze man at my mast-head says, 'Sail ho!' By dam, I say, 'Vat zat you shall see?' 
               "He say he see one John Bull frigat! Ah, by dam, I say-My mens, make ze leetle brig's head go ze ozzer way! I go ze ozzer way, but ze dam John Bull frigat she come, she sail more fast, and by-and-bye she say, boom! I stop my leetle brig direcklee. Zen one dam John Bull officare he come on board my leetle brig-he make me very low bow, and he say-'Sare, I have ze honor of take zis brig one prize to his Britannic Majesty!' and I say-'Sare, I ver much oblige to his Britannic Majesty!' (By dam, I no oblige to him!) 
               "Zen ze John Bull officare take my brand, my Jamaique, and my ozzer wines, and send 'em board ze John Bull frigat, and take me and my crew, us he send board ze John Bull frigat, too. Zen he make fire to my leetle brig, and send her to Davy Jones's lockare, by dam! Ah, my poor leetle brig, how she eat fire! 
               "Bye-and-bye we all git board ze John Bull frigat, and zen zay introduce me to Capitan Dacre. Ah, ver fine looking man zat Capitan Dacre! He say to me: 
               "'My dear sare French Capitan, you no must feel bad about your leetle brig; it is ze fortune of war.' 
               "'Yes, sare,' I say, 'it is ze fortune of war, and one dam bad fortune, at zat. I'd razzer have no fortune at all, zan zis!' 
               "Zen Capitan Dacre he laff, and he say: 
               "'Never mind, mon cher Capitan, come in ze cabin, and take some brandy wiz me.' 
               "I say-'Sare, wiz one ver great plaisir!' 
               "Zen I go wiz him to his cabin, and he pour out two glasses of brandy, and he say: 
               "Sare French Capitan, I drink you ver go-to-hell't!' 
               "I say, 'I sank you, sare; ze same to you, sare!' 
               "Zen I puts ze glass to my mouth, and I taste of him. By dam I take him down, and I look at him. Zen I smell of him. Shentil mens, what you shall sink! Zat same John Bull had ASK ME FOR DRINK MY OWN BRANDY! 
                
               "I set my glass down, and zen I say, 'Sare, I ver much oblige to you!' (By dam, I no oblige to him!) 
               "Well, shentilmens, en I shall sail some several day aboard ze John Bull frigat, ze man at her mast-head, he say, 'Sail ho!' 
               "Zen Capitan Dacre he say, 'Mast-head zere! what you shall have see?' 
               "Ze man at ze mast-head, he say he see one Yankee Doodle frigat! 
               "'Beat to quartare,' say Capitan Dacre. Zen he go to his cabin, and he dress in his full uniform. Ah, one ver fine-looking man zat Capitan Dacre. Zen he say to ze John Bull mens: 
               "'You see zat dam Yankee Doodle frigat yondare? We shall take her in shust fifteen minutes!' 
               "Leetle French capitan he no say nossing, but he sink to himself may be ze Yankee Doodle frigat take Capitan Dacre in fifteen minute. 
               "Zen ze Yankee Doodle frigate she come close, and Capitan Dacre he say, 'My men, stand by to fire one gun at ze Yankee Doodle frigat! Fire ze gun!' 
               "Boom!
                
               "Ze dam Yankee Doodle frigat she come, but she no say nossing! 
               "Capitan Dacre say, 'My mens, stand by, fire broadside at ze dam Yankee Doodle frigat!' 
               "Ze John Bull frigat say-boom! boom-m-m!
                
               "Ze dam cowarde Yankee Doodle frigat she come, but she no say nossing!
                
               "Zen Capitan Dacre say, 'My mens, stand by fire ze ozzer broadside!' 
               "By zis time ze Yankee Doodle frigat shall be close as one pistol shot, and zen one leetle mans aboard her say: 
               "'FIRE! Give ze John Bull man ze ver debbil!' 
               "Boom! B-o-o-m, whiz, crash-sh! Oh, by dam, zen ze Yankee Doodle frigat she do say somesing!
                
               "Shentilmens, I go right down below direcklee. I was ver much fatigue!
                
                
               "By-and-bye, after several time have been, I no more hear ze boom, boom, and zen I go upon deck. 
               "Ah, shentilmens, I shall zen have see one such sight as I have navare see. It was bootiful! Ze John Bull mens lay dead every where; ze mast zey all shoot to piece; ze sail full of hole; ze blood all ovare ze deck; it spoil my boot and my pantalone! Ze John Bull flag it was pull down. 
               "Zen I ask ze name ze Yankee Doodle Capitan when he come aboard for Capitan Dacre sword. He say his name Capitan HULL. By dam, he no want no hull but Yankee Doodle hull, for he spoil ze hull of ze John Bull frigat. 
               "Zen ze Yankee Doodle officare take all ze John Bull mens board ze Yankee Doodle frigat, and ze John Bull frigat begin to sink ver fast. 
               "When I see zis, I go to Capitan Dacre, who was walk ze deck of Yankee Doodle frigat and I point to him his frigat, where she go down, and I say- 
               "'Ah, Capitan Dacre! You big John Bull frigate go look for my leetle brig at Davy Jones' lockare, eh?' 
               "He look ver mad, but he no say nossing. 
               "Zen by and by it come time for dinnare. Ze John Bull officare and ze Yankee Doodle officare and me, ze little French Capitan we all sit down to ze dinnare. Zen ze officares zey drink ze toast, ze sentiments, goot many of ze toast; leetle French Capitan sink he will propose one toast. 
               "He shump up from his chair, and he say- 
               "Shentilmens, I shall drink one sentiment to ze John Bull officares.' Zen ze John Bull officares all git up and fill zeir glass, and look so very much pleas! 
               "I fill my glass-I look at Capitan Dacre, and I say: 
               "'Sare, Capitan Dacre; Messieurs John Bull officares, as you is all aboard one Yankee Doodle frigat, I shall propose-'Britannia rules ze wave!' What you sink of zat, eh? Ha! ha" 
               "Ze John Bull officares and Capitan Dacre zey look very mad, but zey no say nossing!" 
                
               "What could they? Their proud boast of 'Britannia rules the Wave,' has been shamed into silence forever! 
               "The next proof that the rule was bound to work, was in the capture of the Macedonian, by the United States. Com. Decatur was in charge of her, and I am proud to think that the Order of United Americans can claim a Decatur as well as a Perry Chapter, in this city. 
               "Next the Constitution-the glorious 'Ironsides,' took the Java, another frigate of superior force. Then again, good luck following her, she took the Cyane and Levant. 
               "It were injustice to this chapter for me not to allude in the history of our naval glories to the deeds of those brave men, who upon the inland seas, the western lakes, emulated the deeds of their brethren upon the Atlantic. The brave McDonough-and the noble PERRY, deserve a moment's notice. With small vessels, manned almost entirely by landsmen, on two several occasions they met a superior force of well fitted out, and practised British seamen, and on both occasions the result was this. 'They met the enemy-and conquered.' But it would take long hours for me to follow through the history of our navy during the war, and I will not detain you with it, for I hope you are all American enough in heart and mind to read and know the history of your country. Yet, I must allude to one thing-one sad event in our naval history, and that because it has a moral which should be felt and remembered by this Order. I allude to the capture of the Frigate Chesapeake; that ship, whose brave commander died with these words on his lips-'don't give up the ship!' Had that ship been manned with Americans she would never nave been given up! But it is a known fact that two-thirds of her crew were foreigners, Dutch, Danes and Irish, and they deserted their guns before the Americans on board had fairly got into a fighting humor Let us determine, brothers, never to give up the ship-and to prevent the danger of that dire sorrow, let us guard against all traitors in our midst; let us keep and preserve our Order purely and truly patriotic. In our anxiety to gain in numbers, we must not forget that one of the right sort, is worth more than a dozen of that class who are patriotic only when it suits their convenience or interest. We want Americans in this Order, we want 8,000,000 of them, but we only want those who are American in heart as well as birth! We want true men in our ranks, or none at all. 
               "Are there any Americans here who do not belong to our Order? If so, I would take a moment to explain to them the necessity for this Order-its use, and its aim. 
               "First, its necessity! We find that thousands and hundreds of thousands of paupers are landed each year upon our shores, ignorant men who have been born and bred under monarchial rule-who are all unfit to feel or to act as freemen, and yet they are let loose upon our soil, adopted as citizens, given free votes, and prepared to act as tools for any Arnold or demagogue who wishes to bribe or hire their aid to place him in high power. They fill our alms houses; they have a large majority in our prisons too-they underwork our own Mechanics-they are as fit slaves to the aristocracy of wealth in our land, as they were to the aristocracy of governmental power in their own land. To protect ourselves-our constitution, and our very lives against these Goths and Vandals, we have considered it necessary to band ourselves together as United Americans. 
               "The use of our Order is that it is founded upon the beautiful and christian principle of charity! we are linked together as brothers. In our business we aid and advance each other. In our sickness we aid, cherish and attend each other. And if one of us is called away, his widow and orphans, if such he have, are cared for and protected. Their grief is softened by kindness, they are not allowed to fall into the misery of despair, or left to die in abject poverty, neglected by those who are born upon our soil. We have a fund to aid our sick or disabled brethren-we have also our widows' and orphans' fund to assist the stricken of God's providence. 
               "And the aim of this Order is to perpetuate the freedom which Almighty God, through his servant George Washington, and the noble compeers of that great and good man, gave to us to enjoy and keep. It is to keep the government of this land in American hands; to try to hold our own, and not be driven from our birth-right That there is danger of this, who may doubt. To-day, while the procession in honor of the anniversary was passing along the street, a Greek, or Patlander, was heard to exclaim: 
               "Sure, an' if they're the natives, they'd better be off to Californy!" 
               "Yes, I thought, if you and your Jesuit master, Bishop Hughes, had their way, we'd soon be off to California-soon be forced, like the once powerful Indians, back from the Atlantic shore-forced to yield this proud city for a kingdom and home to the Pope who has been driven from Rome: even though, as Bishop Hughes said in the Freeman's Journal a short time since-'This country is too uncivilized to receive his Holiness!' Yes, it is, and I pray God it will be-will be while I live! Oh, Americans, it is time indeed that we were all banded together for the protection of our rights, our laws and our institutions! To this aim and for this use has this Order been instituted; and to aid in the good cause the Order of the Daughters of America, and the United American Mechanics have also been formed. They are all rapidly increasing. By the last statistical information which I could gain, these Orders, united, in the different States, number about 60,000 souls; more, actually, than we had at any one time under arms in our army during that Revolution which made us a free and a glorious nation. 
               "A glorious nation, I said. Wherein is our glory? First, it is in this, that when bowed down with oppression, the sons of America, though few in number, mighty with anger and indignation, rose and threw off the yoke of slavery! Glorious, that in two long and bloody wars, we defeated the most powerful nation on earth, and taught her a lesson which she can never forget! But glorious, most glorious, that she gave a birth-place to him whose birth-day we have assembled to celebrate! 
               
                   
                     "Who wore in war the victor's wreath, 
                     That we might wear the olive leaf- 
                     The glorious WASHINGTON! Star 
                     Of all the gone before, the light 
                     Which like a beacon from afar, 
                     
                        Beamed brightest-truest in the night. 
                  
                
                
               "Who can think of him, and not remember and admire the courage which enabled him to cope with a powerful foe amid all disadvantages; who had the skill and bravery, after a long and desperate struggle, to conquer that foe; and then possessed the wisdom, honesty, moderation, and noble patriotism, to make that victory subservient to his country's good, rather than a stepping-stone to his own ambition; to refuse a crown, and to receive, instead, the everlasting gratitude of a free and happy Republic! Scotland has boasted of her William Wallace, Switzerland of her Tell, Greece of her Marco Bozarris, Ireland of her martyred Emmett, yet it was reserved for us alone to boast of such a man as Washington! Of all the patriots whom I have named, none were like him! When the clouds of misfortune were hovering darkest over our land, he was cheerful, bold and unflinching in his virtuous intrepidity! And when success gladdened our cause, then was he even to his enemies, generous and magnanimous! He was, indeed, a 'model MAN!' One who combined the essence of goodness with greatness; he 
                     was was
                     was
                   well calculated to be first in war, first in peace, and first, last, and forever in the hearts of his countrymen. To whom on earth can we compare him? As a successful warrior shall we compare him to Napoleon? No, Napoleon was born a peasant; he rose to be a conqueror; he abused his power; and died at last a heart-broken captive! But, brothers, gentlemen and ladies, I have already occupied you too long. There is nothing more pleasant than the duty I am now performing, yet I feel that I have trespassed upon your time long enough. Permit me, in closing, to quote the words of one who loves his country well, and to hope that this glad anniversary will long be celebrated and held as it has been this day, sacred, because it is 
               
                   
                      
                         
                            
                              "WASHINGTON'S BIRTH-DAY. 
                              Why swell a million hearts as one, 
                              With mem'ries of the past! 
                              Why rings out yon deep thunder-gun 
                              Upon the rushing blast? 
                              Why hold the beautiful, the brave, 
                              The Jubilee of earth? 
                              It is, it is the day that gave 
                              Our Patriot Hero birth! 
                            
                            
                            
                              A hundred years with all their trains 
                              Of shadows have gone by, 
                              And yet his glorious name remains, 
                              A sound that cannot die! 
                              'Tis graven on the hill, the vale, 
                              And on the mountain tall, 
                              And speaks in every sounding gale, 
                              And roaring water-fall! 
                            
                            
                              No marble on his resting spot, 
                              Its sculptured column rears, 
                              But his is still a nobler lot, 
                              A grateful nation's tears! 
                              Old Time that bids the marble bow, 
                              Makes green each laurel leaf, 
                              That blooms upon the sainted brow 
                              Of our immortal chief! 
                            
                            
                              His deeds were ours-but through the world 
                              That mighty chief will be, 
                              Where Glory's banner is unfurled, 
                              The Prophet of the Free! 
                              And as they bend their eagle eyes 
                              On Victory's burning sun, 
                              Their shouts will echo to the skies- 
                              'OUR GOD, AND WASHINGTON!'" 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               A LOVE SCENE. Was you ever in love, reader? Methinks I hear you reply, "What a foolish question! Does there exist a being who has not loved?" If so,-but it is not so-it can't be so! All things love; the birds of the air, the beasts of the field; and can we, who have souls and hearts and minds, avoid loving? No, no more than we can live without food or drink. Love is nature, nature is love! But I must hold up, or folks will think that I'm in love, and such a thought would be very unjust, though with a blush I will acknowledge that I did love once,-aye, more than loved-worshipped the object of my love with a mad and reckless adoration which knew no bounds;-but of this, no more, or I'll get "the blues." 
               It was evening. Ernest Cramer was seated in the parlor of the Clifford mansion, at Japonica Place. Near him sat La Belle Serena, looking, if possible, lovelier than ever he had seen her before. No one else was in the room. Ernest was pale and nervous; he looked as if "something was the matter" with him, and so there was. 
               "You seem very melancholy to-night, Mr. Cramer!" said the lady. 
               "And yet," he replied, "I was never happier than at this moment. There is, as you know, lady, a grief which tears cannot express, and which can make no utterance. God save us ever from that grief, for it is terrible to endure! And so there is a happiness which is too intense for utterance-a joy which neither words or actions can describe!" 
               "And pray, sir, why are you so happy?" 
               "Ah, lady would that I dare tell you!" 
               "Surely there can be no harm in telling one who aspires to be your friend, and who would sympathise with your joys, as also in your sorrows." 
                
               "Lady, I am happy because I am in your presence-so near that I can hear your sweet voice-so near that I can gaze into the blue depths of your glorious eyes-so near-" 
               "Mr. Cramer!" 
               It was now the lady's turn to look pale and tremble. She first turned pale as a lily, then red as the rose sun-lighted. 
               "Forgive me, Miss Serena, forgive me; but it is too late for me to pause. I must avow my feelings for you. I did not think I could muster courage enough to do so in person, and had written a letter to explain my feelings; but now, lady, I can tell you all. From the first hour that I have met you, I have loved you. In vain have I striven to repress, or at least conceal, my feelings: forgive me, though you drive me forever from your presence-hear me!" 
               The only answer was a sigh. A tear was quivering on either eyelid; her bosom was heaving with emotion. What could Ernest augur from these tokens? He moved closer to her side; he took her fair hand in his, and when he felt its warm pulses beating quickly, hotly as his own, a thrill as of electric fire passed through his frame. She did not withdraw the hand; he raised it to his burning lips, and pressed upon it a fervent kiss; and yet it still trembled in his own. 
               "Oh, lady, may I hope that I am not utterly indifferent to you-at least, that no other has a claim upon this precious hand-no other found a home within your warm, pure heart!" 
               Still she did not speak-she sighed; the long lashes which veiled her eyes drooped down on a blushing cheek; her red lips quivered, but no more. 
               The suspense and excitement of Cramer became more intense. 
               "Lady," said he, "I pray you in mercy to speak. If you cannot return the love which I lay down upon the altar of your worth and beauty, speak, and let me know the worst. If I am so hapless as to offend you by this declaration, I will never again offend; I will fly far, far from here, and seek some field where life can be laid down with honor-for life, without you, were worse than worthless to me!" 
                
               "Ernest!" 
               She spoke that word-no more; and yet the tone in which it was uttered, the look which accompanied it, told him more than a volume could have contained. 
               "Serena, oh, may I hope?" 
               "Ernest, dear Ernest!" 
               Words could say no more. Tears were fast flowing down the cheeks of both; but such tears as are blessed by those who shed them-tears of happiness. 
               She did not reprove him when, in his wild enthusiasm, he caught her in his arms, and pressed her to his manly breast; she did not chide him when he pressed his burning lips to hers; she blushed, and perchance forgetful of all but the mutual confession, returned the warm pressure of the first pure, burning kisses of honorable love! Moment of unutterable happiness! Why could not both have died then and there, rather than to live in a world where change will come-where clouds will gather-where storms will break, and breaking, destroy the flowers of hope and joy! Oh, that death could come in such an hour, then would it lose all its terrors! 
               Uncounted are such moments as then passed. Time is swift as lightning when sunlight gilds its wings; but when sorrow's rain damps its pinions, or oppression's chain clogs them, then indeed do the moments pass slowly and drearily. But we will leave the now confessed lovers to talk over the realities which are the crowning jewels of pure love, and to arrange about getting parental consent, matrimony, &c.,-that is, if with them the course of true love runs smooth. "Nous verrons!" 
                
               Another love scene. Surely, this chapter is all love, thinks the reader. When Ernest Cramer left his room for Japonica Place that evening, he did not press Harry Hilton to accompany him, and had he done so, the latter would have refused. At or near the time when Ernest was avowing his love to La Belle Serena, a similar, and yet a different scene was occurring in the neat little back parlor on the first floor, at the Widow Laurel's. Harry Hilton was there, and so was Lizzie, looking quite like a little woman in her long dress. On his face was an air of nervousness; the color seemed higher than usual, and his manner was somewhat agitated. Lizzie, however, looked as gay and mischievous as if never a tear had glittered in her dark eye. She had evidently just been saying something that vexed and annoyed him, for he said, in a fretful tone: 
               "Is it impossible for you, Miss Lizzie, ever to be serious? I tell you that I love you, seriously love you!" 
               "And, Mr. Hilton," she replied, laughing, "I respectfully tell you that I do not seriously love you!" 
               "But, Lizzie, dear Lizzie, you might treat me kindly, at least." 
               "Mr. Hilton, I do mean to treat you kindly, but kindness isn't love! Why do you talk of love to a young thing like me? Why, there is Mrs. Montrose, who evidently is smitten with you-" 
               "Oh, she may go to-Paradise! I detest her!" 
               "Oh, oh, Mr. Hilton! how ungallant you are! If I should tell her, she'd go into convulsions, or some other fashionable thing." 
               "Do stop, Lizzie, and hear me once. You are young, I am a soldier-" 
               "And very good-looking, why didn't you say?" 
               "Oh, pshaw, Lizzie! Please don't interrupt me. I said I was a soldier; I shall be soon off on service, and all that I ask is that you will remember me; for as you grow older, and know that one constant heart beats for you alone, you may yet be induced to feel some pity for me." 
               "You must cut off a lock of your hair, then, sir, and let me sew it up in a bit of 'true blue' silk, and wear it in my shoe, and then-" 
               "Oh, Lizzie, you are as cruel as you are beautiful. You know not what it is to love!" 
               She answered with a sigh so deep and full, that had he the least knowledge of human nature, he would have known that it meant something. 
               For a moment she remained silent and thoughtful, and the soldier, repulsed at every point, felt like retreating from the field of battle Both were rather embarrassed; but a relief came to them in the entrance of our old acquaintance, "Gulietta," now Mrs. Montrose. 
               "Excuse me, I hope I do not intrude; I felt so lonely in my room," she said, bowing. 
               "Oh, it is a favor; indeed I was going to look for you. Mr. Hilton felt so lonely that I felt like having the mumps myself. He is always gayer when you are near, I believe, madam." 
               A look from Hilton would not have flattered the widow, had she seen it; but she did not; and replying-"You're a little flatterer, I fear, Miss," seated herself near Hilton on the sofa. 
               "Why are you so sad, sir?" she continued, casting a melting glance toward him. 
               "I am not sad; it is only that little tease bantering me," he replied. 
               "Oh, Mr. Hilton! what fibs you do tell! I've a great mind to tell Mrs. Montrose what you said about her beautiful eyes-I will, if you don't look out." 
               Lizzie didn't wait for an answer, but ran out of the room, leaving Hilton in a worse bother than ever. 
               "I assure you, madam, that she is merely speaking thus to banter me." 
               "You need make no excuses," said the widow in a low tone. "She said nothing to offend me. I am sure it would be but a pleasure to possess any feature which was beautiful in your eyes." 
               The lady spoke this with such a marked emphasis, that Hilton could not avoid noticing it. He raised his eyes to hers, and then found her gaze fixed on his own so earnestly, that a flush mantled his face. A blush darkened the transparency of her brunette cheek also, and both seemed confused. It was impossible that here was more love, yet it looked a little like it. After a few moments silence, the lady again spoke. 
               "You seem so quiet, that I shall begin to believe that Miss Laurel was correct, sir," said she, smiling. 
               "I am not very well; I've a slight headache. Excuse me, if I am so dull: I will retire;" and Hilton, completely out of sorts, retired to the room occupied by himself and Cramer, and lighted a segar to console himself with. 
               A couple of hours later, Ernest entered-his face beaming with happiness-his manner so excited, that Hilton exclaimed-"Why, surely you've been drinking, Ernest?" 
               "Not of anything earthly, Harry: I've been making love!" 
               "So have I!" 
               "Successfully?" 
               "No, got laughed at for my pains; but you?" 
               "Have been so happy as to become an accepted lover; yes, Serena Clifford has promised to be mine!" 
               "I congratulate you!" said Hilton, sighing. 
               "Wherefore that sigh, Harry? Are you so simple as to feel wretched about the love of a child?" 
               "Just so foolish, Ernest. But what do you think of the widow? She seems very attentive to you." 
               "If so, entirely without encouragement on my part; but I thought the boot was on the other leg. She seems to be rather smitten with you. She certainly is very agreeable; and, if we can judge from appearances, is rich as Croesus!" 
               "How singular it was that she should secure your Italian protege for a maid!" 
               "It was singular; but I am glad of it; I am happy that Desca is now in a reputable and pleasant situation-one that removes her from the dangers and insults which before menaced her." 
               "She is very beautiful!" 
               "Yes, and all as pure and innocent as she is beautiful, if I am a judge of human nature." 
               "I don't think we can say quite as much for her mistress." 
               "She seems rather forward, but I think it is more coquetry than anything else." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               ERNEST CRAMER was seated at his writing table on the morning after his betrothal-interview with La Belle Serena. Hilton had gone out. Ernest had just finished and sealed a letter, when Lizzie Laurel came in and handed him a card. 
               "The gentleman who brought it is waiting below, sir!" she said. "Shall I tell him to come up?" 
               "Yes, if you please, Lizzie-but stay a moment. I have something to say to you!" 
               "To me, sir?" 
               "Yes, Lizzie. I heard a sad complaint of you last evening." 
               "A complaint, Mr. Cramer? What was it?" 
               "Mr. Hilton says you treated him very ill." 
               "Indeed I did not, sir. He made love to me, and I only laughed at him." 
               "But, Lizzie, he really loves you." 
               "I can't help that, sir. I'm sure it is no fault of mine." 
               "Yes, Lizzie, you are beautiful!" 
               "If I am, sir, God made me so. But, Mr. Cramer, you did not think me beautiful." 
               "Yes, Lizzie, I always did." 
               "And yet, sir-you-you-" 
               She paused, blushed, and did not finish the remark. 
               "You would say that your beauty did not win my love-that I love another! It is true, my sweet Lizzie-but do you know there is a kind of fate in love. We often love the very antipodes of ourselves, both in looks and feelings. Mr. Hilton loves you-and I only wish that you could return his affection, for he is a noble young man." 
               "That can never be!" replied the young girl with a sigh "Mr. Cramer, you know my feelings-I am not one to change, but I pray you never to speak to me of my loving another again. Excuse me-I will go and send the gentleman up." 
               "She retired, and in a few moments the door again opened, and MR. ARNOLD entered. His black hair was combed down as sleekly as usual on either side of his low unintellectual forehead, his face was pale, and his eyes somewhat red, as if he had been on "a bender." 
               "Good morning, Mr. Arnold-you are welcome to my little sanctum again!" said Cramer, rising, and with his usual frankness extending his hand to the visitor. 
               "I am very happy to see you, Mr. Cramer!" rejoined the latter, grasping the extended hand and shaking it heartily. "I am sorry I cannot yet give you the grip of the American Order, but I hope soon to be able to do so. I called this morning to see you about proposing me as a member. The arguments in your last address, convinced me that it is the duty, the sacred duty of every true American to link himself with that glorious brotherhood, who are pledged to preserve the institutions and freedom of America." 
               "I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Arnold! Every recruit counts one-the Order was commenced by only thirteen, a few short years since, and from that ominous and happy number, it has spread until the names of many thousands are on its roll." 
               "Yes, it must succeed! The God of Liberty will protect it-the friendly shade of the immortal Washington will hover above and bless it. But your rules of proposition for membership-I wish to understand them. How is it done?" 
               "I will take your name, residence, occupation, age, and place of birth. These I will state in a proposition to the Order, at our next meeting. A committee will then be appointed who will call upon you, learn from your references and those who know you, your character. If they report satisfactorily, you will be ballotted for, and if elected, will then be initiated and received as one of us. We are particular, because it is necessary in an Order like ours, to have none but good men and true." 
                
               "Correct! You cannot be too guarded-yet I hope to pass the ordeal safely. I am well known and can give excellent references." 
               "I am sure, sir, that I shall be happy to hail you as a Brother. We need those who, like yourself, are enthusiastic in the cause-those who are ready to risk lives and fortunes, as did the glorious signers of the Declaration of Independence, in the cause before them." 
               "I only regret," replied Arnold, "that I can do so little. Long before I read one line from your pen, my mind wandered over the very subjects which you are now so ably handling, and often did I wish for talent and power, and courage, to launch forth upon the very sea whereon your noble bark is battling-often did I long to see some one come out as you have done, and say to the foreign intruder, Thus far shalt thou come, but no further; to the oppressor and the wrong doer-Hold! hold, or the weight of your wrongs shall be cast back upon your own wicked heads. When I saw your writings, my heart leaped high with joy-I have found him-I have found him! was my cry." 
               "Sir, you flatter me." 
               "Justice is not flattery, Mr. Cramer. But a question, if you please. In joining your Order, am I so pledged that I lose either a political or religious position which I may hold?" 
               "No, sir! It is sometimes falsely reported that we are an exclusively political Order, that we are bigoted and fanatical. This is not so. The principles of our Order are described in our motto, 'Patriotism, Charity, and Harmony,' for the U. A.-'Honesty, Industry and Sobriety,' for the U. A. M." 
               "Noble mottoes! Let men but live up to them, and wherever those Orders spread, they will bear God's holy blessing with them!" cried Arnold, in a tone of enthusiasm. 
               "Yes, and win respect, even from the foreigner!" added Cramer "It is a great and a pleasant thing to be respected by those who dislike us most." 
               "It is, and I may without flattery say, that you have forced many of those with whom you war, to respect, while they fear and hate you." 
               "I am glad to hear so, but there is but little hope in the respect of the fear of a set of thieving gamblers. They are like some children-they fear while the rod is held over them, they respect you, while they feel that they are in your power." 
               "You do indeed possess a vast knowledge of human nature!" said Arnold. "I was just thinking that such might be the case amongst them. But I have a question to ask-I feel curious to know how you become acquainted with so many of these deeds of darkness, how you find out the localities of the gamblers and so faithfully describe the evil doing, which you so boldly and justly condemn." 
               A reply was on Cramer's lips-a frank and open reply, but when he looked Arnold in the eye, that individual cast his glance to the floor and seemed intent upon observing the pattern of the carpet. This caused Ernest to make a different reply than that which he first intended. 
               "It matters not how I find out, since I do, and am most accurate in my details!" he replied. "Were these wretches to learn how I acquire my knowledge of their movements, their aim would be to prevent it, and they might succeed." 
               "But you do not think that I would tell!" 
               "Of course not, sir; but I make it a rule to keep my movements to myself, and then no accident can reveal them; or if it does, it is my own fault, and I have no one else to blame." 
               "Right. But it is strange how accurate you are! I am told by those who pretend to know, that your description of the case of poor young Hagerman is correct to an item, and yet the sharpers were doubly cautious with him, and very secret, for they had a large stake to play for." 
               "Yes, and they won a large stake! They won him away from a happy home-they won him from he arms of a happy bride-they damned him utterly, made a thief of him, ruined him soul and body! He is now a wanderer and a fugitive-his wife is dying of a broken heart-his gray-haired mother is descending rapidly in sorrow to the grave." 
                
               "It is terrible to think of! Who can gamble when they see the evil effects of that passion so strongly depicted?" 
               "Who!" cried Cramer, much excited-"who but the very men who make the laws! Who but those who are sworn to execute them-who but they, thrice perjured, double-distilled villains! Here is a city of half a million of inhabitants, guarded by nine hundred sworn policemen, governed by a Mayor and nearly forty members of council-each sworn to support and see that the laws are fulfilled, and to do the duties of their office faithfully; with nearly as many judges and magistrates, and yet what exists? The Halls of Justice, and the very rooms where these officers of the people meet, are surrounded by brothels and gambling hells, and they know it. Aye, some of them often visit these places." 
               "Is it possible?" 
               "Yes, Mr. Arnold. I can point to you a judge who has sent many a trembling wretch to prison for no crime at all, who can almost nightly be found in a brothel! I can show you others, who, sworn to fulfil the laws and see them fulfilled, are the most constant devotees at the gambling table! I know these things to be so, for I have seen them!" 
               "Do they not fear exposure?" 
               "Yes, and what is the consequence? A gambler fleeces some one who will not tamely bear the loss. This person complains; a warrant is sworn out; the gambler is arrested, held to bail, perhaps, but that is the last of it. Perhaps he is brought to trial. A jury of honest men find him guilty; then comes the sentence. The law enables the judge to impose one year's imprisonment in the penitentiary, and two hundred and fifty dollars fine, yet I defy you, or any other man, to prove that such a sentence was ever inflicted upon one of the thousand of thieving gamblers who have been arrested for breaking this statute! Oh, my God, what is justice in New York! To send a poor homeless man, of woman, to the penitentiary, to herd with thieves and felons, for the crime of poverty, alone! Yes, they will send a thief to prison for thirty days, and a person found homeless and friendless, for six months, thus encouraging theft! Mr. Arnold, I do not exaggerate; it is so true, that you have but to look at the Records to verify what I say." 
               "It is indeed no wonder that you are so strenuous for reform when you descry such monstrous evils! But my time is much occupied by numerous engagements to-day-I must bid you good morning. You will do me the favor to propose me as a candidate for admission into your Order?" 
               "Certainly; please write your name, address, age, business, and birth-place down." 
               "With pleasure," replied Arnold, writing. "J. I. Arnold, residence No. - B- street. Age, twenty-eight; my business-what shall I write, Mr. Cramer? I have sufficient means to live upon the income thereof, and have no profession, no business, except that of doing the little in my power to alleviate human misery." 
               "Leave occupation blank, then; I will explain that." 
               "I was born in the village of -, - county, in this State." continued Arnold, writing it down. "Is this sufficient?" 
               "It is; I will propose you at our next meeting." 
               "Thank you, my kind friend, thank you! Good morning-oh, excuse me; have you any cases under your eye, of extreme poverty, where assistance can be rendered? My purse is at your service for all good works." 
               As he said this, Arnold drew a well-filled purse from his pocket. Cramer quietly waved it back. 
               "There are many cases," said he; "but to find them you must seek them in the cellars, and those dreary houses where hundreds exist under a single roof, huddled up, nearly naked, often famished for food." 
               Arnold heaved a sigh as deep as if it had been really felt, bade Cramer good morning, and left the room. 
               He had been gone but an instant, when a gentle tap at Ernest's door again aroused him from his writing, which he had resumed 
               "Enter," he cried. 
               The door opened, and Desca del Onda entered, bearing in her hand a lovely bouquet of rich exotic flowers, the produce of the hothouse. 
               "Madame sends you this, sir," she said, handing it to Cramer, "and begs you to accept of it, for poets love flowers." 
               "Your mistress is very kind indeed, Desca; thank her for me, and say that I am very fond of flowers." 
               Ernest arose, and filled a vase with water, in which he placed the bouquet. Desca stood by the table until this was done, and then, with a sigh, said: 
               "My mistress seems very much in love with you, sir." 
               "Did she tell you to say so to me, Desca?" asked the young man, quickly. 
               She blushed beneath his gaze-blushed and seemed confused. 
               "No, sir," she said, hesitatingly; "but-but she is always talking of you: I meant no harm, sir, in speaking of it." 
               "Nor did you do any; but, Desca, I'll tell you a secret, and I don't tell you to repeat it; but if your mistress should happen to hear that I'm engaged to be married, it may prevent her from wasting time in trying to catch me in her husband-net. A rich and handsome widow is certainly a very desirable prize to draw in Life's Lottery, but I've got my ticket already!" 
               Desca sighed, but made no reply. 
               "Are you not happy?" asked Cramer. "Is not your mistress kind to you?" 
               "Yes, sir, she is very kind;" and as she spoke the young Italian sighed again, and moved toward the door. Something seemed to rest heavy on her heart; but she said no more. With a sigh she crossed the threshold of the door, and closed it. 
               Again Cramer was alone. 
               "Flowers! flowers!" he murmured in soliloquy, as he gazed at the bouquet. "How like human hopes and our waking dreams. Bright in their blossoming, brief in their existence, melancholy in decay!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII 
               "HIS EMINENCE" was seated in his study, engaged in opening a large pile of letters which had just been brought from the post-office. At his right hand sat a female of eighteen or twenty years of age; a pale, intellectual looking creature, whose large, dark, mournful looking eyes were bent upon him. In her hand she held a pen-paper lay before her; her business was evidently that of an amanuensis. Her dress was black; the cut, that of the "Sisters;" but her hair had not yet known the sacrilegious touch of the scizzors; it hung in luxuriant tresses low down upon her white neck and shoulders, the outlines of which could not be concealed, even by the black and unseemly dress which she wore. She was beautiful-not to a sensual eye, yet beautiful in her expression of soulfulness, in her look of intellectuality and feeling. Yet an expression of deep sorrow was settled on her countenance-a look of utter sadness which called for sympathy and pity. 
               "Allie," said the priest, handing her a letter which he had just perused, "answer our agent at Chicago! Compliment him upon his talent and success in opening the three schools he alluded to; and, in regard to the property matter, tell him by all means to induce the old gentleman to send his son to the army, and his daughter here to school!" 
               The poor girl wrote on, and as she wrote the priest soliloquised. "Yes," he murmured-"the boy once in the army, he can be disposed of easily. I have faithful servants there; the girl here, all will be right. If she is beautiful, she shall add to the number of the chosen;' if she be not, I've another market for her. The children out of the way, the old man is under our influence, and one million of dollars is added to our treasury! It is a great work!" 
               He then opened another letter. "Ah," he murmured-"first from the far North, next from the sunny South. One of the Order is in Tampa Bay, and says there is neither priest or school there; population, fifty families in the place and its neighborhood! This will never do-we must dispatch one of the brotherhood there quickly! Let me see-Paul O'Brien is young and ardent-he will do-yes, we will send him!" 
               "I have finished the letter; it is ready for your signature, Eminence!" said the fair amanuensis in a low, sweet tone. 
               The priest hastily wrote his name, prefixing it with a , and then opened another letter, while she sealed and directed the first. 
               "From Father Joseph, in Pittsburgh," he muttered, while his brow grew dark. "The heretics there are a high-handed and perverse set. Their preachers harangue in the streets, and denounce our doctrines. The people hear, and believe. Curse them-curse them! it is such as they who prevent us from rising! He writes that the secret Orders of Americans are gaining ground there every day-he needs more help! Yes, he does: he is too merciful-he lacks energy-he does not take proper means to rid the Church of such foes! He should act, not talk. The bowl and the steel! Those are the words. I will answer him myself." 
               Seizing a pen, the priest rapidly indicted a letter, which he sealed and directed himself. He then again turned to the unopened letters and took another. 
               "Ah-from our Abbess at New Orleans! she is a star. She wishes me to pay a visit to her city. I wish I could, but it is impossible. At this crisis I must not leave-the time is coming when I shall be needed! Here, Allie-take this letter and reply to the Abbess, sister Ursula! Tell her that there are plots and plotters at work against us, and that I cannot leave my post. Compliment her upon the success of the seminary-tell her never to let one escape her who can be made useful. 
               The fair girl took the letter, and commenced writing. The priest opened another. A smile of satisfaction gathered on his countenance as he read it. "Yes," he said, "I knew General S- would approve of my idea-yes, if I have a few regiments formed of our own men, well drilled and accoutred, if these cursed Native Americans dare to threaten or oppose us, I'll at once rise and show them what our strength is! Then they will see that we have not been idle for the three hundred and fifty years, since our standard was first unfurled in this Western World. Yes, he is right-I will commence it immediately. I will have regiments of Irish and Germans here-men who have no ties in common with the country-who are bound to obey us! Oh! with one million such men, and our present power scattered through the land, I could plant the Vicar of Saint Peter at Washington-from here to the Empire of the Church, and ere long be myself at its head! God, what a field!" 
               So loud had the tone of the Priest become-so enthusiastic his manner, that the young female paused in her writing, and looked at him in astonishment. It was seldom indeed that he so far forgot himself. Observing her pause, he recovered himself. 
               "Go on, sweet Allie," he said in a gentle tone. "When a great object for the good of the Church seems destined to a speedy and successful fulfilment, I forget my dignity-forget all things but that God smiles upon our efforts. Write on, my good girl-the first seminary that is vacant, shall be placed under your charge." 
               A sickly smile flitted over the fair face of the writer, but she made no reply. 
               He opened another letter. Again an exclamation of pleasure passed his lips. "Dead, at last," he muttered-"fifty thousand dollars more in our Treasury. Every drop helps to swell the bulk, and money is POWER." 
               A tap at the door caused him to start-he waited a moment and it was repeated thrice. 
               "Come in!" he said. 
               His favorite servant came in and handed him a card, at which he glanced. 
               "Is this person below?" 
               "Yes, Eminence." 
               "Bid him come up-Allie, retire into the inner room and remain until I call for you." 
                
               A few moments elapsed, the door opened, and the servant ushered in JUDAS ISCARIOT ARNOLD, and then retired. 
               "I hope I am not intruding upon your Eminence?" said Arnold, glancing at the letters on the table. 
               "Not at all, sir, for this hour is devoted by me always to the business of the Church, and I presume yours is a business call." 
               "It is. I have called merely to report progress in the case of Cramer." 
               "Well." 
               "I have everything arranged to enter his Order. Within a week I can lay bare all its secret movements to your Eminence, and within a week I shall begin to 'act,' shall commence knitting the meshes of that net which shall yet entangle him." 
               "It is well; your plan, if properly carried out, cannot fail. But it must be sure, we must not strike him alone, we must strike at the very heart of that Order, for it is gathering power each day-sweeping like a mighty wave through the land, and where it passes our strength withers away. It must be crushed, or we lost." 
               "And he must be crushed, or those by whom I am employed are lost!" added Arnold. "He seems by some magic art to find out all their plans; he saves victim after victim from their toils; they scarcely get their eye on a good chance, and begin to work, before he warns the victim of his danger, or frightens him from playing!" 
               "How does he learn your movements?" 
               "That is a question we are fruitlessly asking. No one can tell! He describes scene after scene just as it occurs, yet he never is seen at one of our saloons; if he were, it would be but a short shrift he would have. More than twenty of our most reckless and desperate men have sworn to take his life." 
               "Not yet; not yet; we must not slay him till we can strike a blow which will hurt his cause, while it crushes him!" said the priest. 
               "You would find it difficult to restrain the hand of some of our men, if they only had a good chance at him!" said Arnold. "But what I would say to your Eminence is-is there not some means in your power by which we can detect the way in which he discovers these things, which we in vain try to keep secret?" 
               "Will he not tell you? Can you not gain his confidence?" 
               "He keeps his own secrets! I have tried him, and could learn nothing in regard to the matter." 
               "It will be strange if a woman cannot worm the secret out of him!" said the priest. "I will have it tried; I expect a visit from one this morning, who has already cast a charm in his path, if my judgment errs not; I will direct her to the task." 
               "Your Eminence will do us a great favor; did we but know how he manages to learn our secrets, we could foil him. He robs us of too many good chances, and the officers of the law begin to fear him; or rather that he will awaken the people to their perjuries and delinquencies." 
               "It is well; his movements can be detected. Nothing is impossible with us." 
               "Nothing should be. You have power, wealth, learning. Every thing seems combined in favor of your cause." 
               "It is; and if we but succeed as well for five years to come as we have for five years past, America is our own; here we will raise the standard of the Church triumphant; here we will found an empire which shall subdue the world." 
               "Your projects are grand; but your Eminence will excuse me if I doubt their practicability." 
               "You do not know our resources, or our power, Mr. Arnold. One, who has been, and is a prominent candidate for the Presidency of the United States, is bound with us; yes, an avowed servant and follower of the Church. We can elect him. When the time comes which policy dictates, we will. Then, when all offices of emolument and trust are in our gift, we shall have the whole nation in our power. Yes, sir-I repeat it, America will yet be the empire of the church." 
               "Not if such men as Cramer exist, to arouse Americans to their danger; to lead them on in opposition, aye, even to battle, if necessity requires it, to oppose your designs." 
                
               The priest smiled sarcastically. "We have," said he, "means of ridding ourselves of such as he. We will not long allow such obstacles to remain in the path of our progress. He would have died long ago, did not policy dictate a different course." 
               "Your Eminence best knows the surest mode of action. But it is necessary to those whom I serve, that he should soon be disposed of. Every day he adds to the danger of their position. There are laws, which, if enforced, will consign them to a dreary prison; all we fear is, that he will force the officers of the law to act against us. The will of the people is powerful; if once excited against us, our harvest is over. If once crushed, we cannot rise again." 
               "That is true But you need not be crushed. We will soon hold him in check. He is but a man, and I have three temptations laid before him. There are three, and if he can escape from all, he is more than man." 
               "If your Eminence pleases, may I understand what these are? If one is wealth, I can say that-" 
               "He cares not for money. You are right there," said the priest, interrupting him. "His talent makes him a handsome living; he has not a miserly drop of blood in his veins; therefore, money beyond his mere present necessity, is no object to him. But he has warm blood in his veins; he is an adorer of beauty in all its shapes, and I have placed three sirens around him. Two are yet unconscious of my aim, and are yet pure and innocent as unfledged doves; the third is surpassingly beautiful, and to her beauty is added a power of fascination which few possess; an artful coquetry which would conquer an anchorite." 
               "But rumor says that Cramer is soon to wed! I heard this morning from a friend of his, to whom he introduced me a short time since, that he is to be married very soon!" 
               A shade of disappointment flitted across the face of the priest, but it passed away as the shadow of a flitting cloud leaves the earth, and a sarcastic smile replaced it. 
               "So much the better!" he added. "We can the easier destroy him; even should he fail to fall before the arts of our tools, we can 
                  create a jealousy which will destroy his domestic happiness, and that, to a mind constituted like his, will be a shock which must produce insanity." 
               "Your Eminence seems to be foiled by nothing. Your active mind prepares a remedy for every failure; a point for every exigency." 
               "A good general is ever prepared for all vicissitudes; ready for every change in his mode of attack. But who is he to marry?" 
               "A Miss Clifford, the daughter of one of our wealthy merchant princes." 
               "Ah! then we must entangle him, and win some of his wealth, too, while we are about it. He will, of course, receive a large settlement?" 
               "He has refused it, I hear. He told the father of the lady, upon asking his daughter's hand, that he did not wish anything but her; he was able from his profession to support her in good style, and utterly refused the settlement which the liberal old gentleman offered, and when the latter urged the matter, bade him settle it exclusively on her and her children." 
               "Have you any idea when they are to be married?" 
               "Yes; on the coming Sabbath, in Grace Church, of which her parents are members." 
               "It is a pity things were not a little more advanced. I could at once crush his hopes, and strike a death-blow to his reputation. I could have the 'wronged widow' Montrose (the lady I have alluded to as the coquette) rush into the Church, forbid the marriage, swoon away-then let a suit for breach of promise and seduction follow, and I would conquer, in spite of him." 
               "Widows are not often seduced," said Arnold, with a smile. 
               "True, more often are they the seducers; but that portion of community generally selected to serve on juries, couldn't be made to believe so. But it matters not; through his wife we can strike the deadliest blow at his hopes and happiness. When fame and fortune seem within his grasp-when his heart revels in the happiness of love-when he is a father and a husband-then we can, with one blow, dash him to earth, crush him forever, body and heart. Aye, we will place him in a position where he will cast life away as worthless,-scorn to take that as a boon which only adds to the weight of his misery." 
               "Your Eminence is indeed a master at planning! But this man may do much harm in all this time!" 
               "Yes, but in his undoing, we will undo the harm that he has done. So terrible will be his fate, that it will terrify others from ever attempting to follow his course." 
               "I leave all to the superior judgment of your Eminence. Have you any further directions for my guidance?" 
               "None, until you have joined their Order; then come to me at once, and bring me copies of their Rules. I wish to examine them." 
               "I will obey your Eminence." 
               As Arnold rose to retire, the servant again entered, and handed two cards to his Eminence. Glancing at them, the latter asked: 
               "Are these ladies together?" 
               "No, Eminence. The lady Gulietta is in the Blue Room." 
               "Neither is aware that the other is here?" 
               "No, Eminence." 
               "It is well; say to the lady Gulietta that I am engaged, but will soon see her. Admit the other lady, after seeing this gentleman to the door." 
               The servant bowed, and accompanied by Arnold, left the room He returned in a few moments, and ushered in the widow Laurel. She blushed deeply as she came in, and deeper still when his Eminence arose, and grasping her warmly by her hand, exclaimed: 
               "I am delighted to see you, daughter! To what good fortune am I indebted for a visit from you this morning?" 
               "I came, Eminence, to inform you of something which I feared might be of interest." 
               "Ah-what is it?" 
               "My boarder, Mr. Cramer, is going to get married!" 
               "That is no news to me, lady!" 
                
               "Why, your Eminence, I thought no one but my daughter knew it!" 
               "I keep a close watch over the enemies of the Church, daughter Little occurs in connection with them that I do not find out. I wish him to marry-it will further my wishes. But how does it affect your daughter?" 
               "She feels it deeply, Eminence. She seems to adore him!" 
               "It is well! She must be the means of his punishment. She is very beautiful-he is but a man-she must yet win him from the path of rectitude. You will send her to me, daughter, upon your return home; and mark me, I shall give her instructions. Do you see that she fulfils them!" 
               "She wishes to take the veil, Eminence." 
               "Poh-that must not be! I will soon convince her of the folly of that step. She shall yet win the love of him who now spurns her love; and when it is won, then shall she punish him for the church. But of that and my plans when I see her. How fares it with your Southern lady-boarder?" 
               "She is a very agreeable lady, Eminence. Pays liberally, and gives me but little trouble." 
               "Does she seem sociable, lively, eh?" 
               "Yes, Eminence-she is gay as a lark!" 
               "Something of a coquette, as all of you pretty widows are!" 
               "Eminence!" said the widow, blushing deeper still, as the priest laid his hand carelessly upon her very white shoulder. 
               "Come, answer me! Does she seem to be looking for a husband?" 
               "She was, when she first arrived, very attentive to Mr. Cramer, out now she seems to have no eye or ear except for his handsome friend, Lieutenant Hilton." 
               "Ah!" said the priest with a frown. "And this Hilton, does he return her passion?" 
               "No, Eminence-he is in love with my daughter, and she, like a little fool, will not listen to him. He asked her of me in marriage; and as he is well off, and of good reputation, should have had my consent, had she not refused him." 
                
               "She acted wisely. I must see her-send her hither this evening!" 
               "It shall be as you desire-but, Eminence-" 
               "Well, what would you say? Do not hesitate, if you have aught to say to me!" 
               The widow blushed, bent her eyes to the floor, and stammered: 
               "Will your Eminence please remember that she is my only child!" 
               "Yes-yes, you need not fear for her, daughter! I have a higher aim for her-she has a duty to perform for the church. Now adieu-I have other visitors to see!" 
               After kissing her upon the forehead, the priest escorted her to the door. Calling the servant after she had gone, he bade him admit the lady Gulietta. 
               In a few moments the lady came in, looking as queenly as ever, in her robes of half mourning. Hurrying forward, she bent her head low to the extended hand of the priest, and kissed it warmly. 
               "Well, daughter," said the priest, "how fares it with thee? Why didst thou not bring with thee an escort in thy new lover?" 
               "New lover!-ah! your Eminence means Mr. Cramer. His heart is hard as a stone. I can produce no effect on him." 
               "Perhaps the 'effect' or the effort for an effect has been made more successfully on Lieutenant Hilton!" 
               The lady colored-look confused, and then murmured: 
               "I do not understand your Eminence!" 
               "Then I must speak more plainly, Gulietta. I sent you to endeavor to win Ernest Cramer's love." 
               "Yes, Eminence, and I tried in vain to attract the slightest attention from him. He already loved another before I met him. I learned from my maid but yesternight that he is soon to be married." 
               "And deeming his case hopeless, thought it not imprudent to fall in love with his handsome companion!" 
               "Eminence, some one has been slandering me in your ears!" 
               "Poh, child! it is not slander to say that a woman loves. It is a compliment, if she loves with good taste. Upon a second thought, I approve of this taste of yours. I am content that you should love this young officer. Marry him, if you can-if you cannot, lead him on until he makes you his mistress. Through him, we can learn Cramer's secrets. Now, Gulietta, see that you fail not-be sure that you win him." 
               "Eminence, I will try," said the lovely woman. If the daughter of my landlady was not there, I could succeed; but he seems to be enchanted with her." 
               "She will be removed soon, and you will have no competitor. But you must use your influence to keep him boarding at Mrs. Laurel's, for I presume that Cramer will keep his own establishment, after marriage." 
               "I think he will not, your Eminence. He told Desca, my maid, that he should take the floor above that which he now occupies, and refurnish it, upon his marriage." 
               "Ah! so much the better. Then Lizzie will remain where she is. You must put all your arts into action-Hilton must be won." 
               "He shall-or he shall not slight me with impunity!" said Gulietta, as her dark eye flashed proudly. Then, as a sudden thought seemed to pass across the mirror of her mind, she asked: "How is it that your Eminence becomes so well acquainted with my actions and feelings?" 
               "Have I not often told you, Gulietta, that no secret can be hidden from me; that my eye is ever on the servants of the church?" 
               "True, your Excellency. But pleased as I have been with Mr. Hilton, I have neither by word or act revealed it." 
               "You err, my child. While speaking to Cramer, your words have been meant for his friend; your eyes have rested upon his martial form; and I knew some time since all that I have told you at this interview." 
               "Pardon me, Eminence: a woman's will can always be swayed by her heart." 
               "Your acts have not disaccorded with my design, daughter. But you must report more often. Push on as rapidly as you can, and with this Hilton win the circle of your sway." 
               "I will obey your Eminence." 
               "It is well, daughter. Now, go; I have many letters to reply to." 
                
               Again the priest was alone. A mocking smile was on his face, "Tools, tools," he muttered; "what are they without a master-mind and skilful hand to guide them." 
               Rising again, he recalled Allie, his fair amanuensis, from the ante-room, and resumed the occupation in which we found him at the commencement of this chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               "HARRY, we've fun afloat for to-night. Get your pistols, and put on this sailor's dress; it is a match to mine." 
               "What do you mean, Ernest? Are you going on a scout to-night?" 
               "Yes, I have just heard of something. A mystery is involved, and I must unravel it." 
               Thus spoke Cramer, as Hilton came into the room, about nine o'clock in the evening. 
               "A mystery? What is it?" 
               "Not exactly a mystery; but something wrong is going on in a certain quarter, and I have been called on for help. A police officer is waiting for us; come, hurry: the time is up when I was to meet him." 
               "I'll be ready in a minute, then!" said Hilton, hurrying to dress. 
               In a few minutes Hilton was dressed precisely like Cramer, their apparel being the same as that of regular men-o'wars-men; blue jackets and trowsers-tarpaulin hats, &c. In addition to these, Hilton concealed a brace of pistols under the blue collared frock which he wore over his ordinary shirt, while Cramer put his favorite old Colt revolver in one pocket, and buckled a belt containing a curved dagger or Turkish knife, of Damascene steel, around his waist. Thus accoutred, each put on a rough pea-jacket of pilot-cloth, also ornamented like their other clothes with a sailor-like profusion of guilt navy buttons, and then they sallied out. 
               "Now, Ernest," said Hilton, after they reached the street, "let me know what you are up to. When I'm on duty I like to know what's ahead." 
               "Well, I'll tell you in a few words, Harry, as much I know myself. You was present this afternoon when an old lady called upon me?" 
                
               "Yes, you mean a lady dressed in deep black?" 
               "The same! Well, she is a widow. She has an only daughter, who will be heir to all her property, which is immense. She, the widow, was a Catholic, but she has been recently converted under the ministration of that noble and eloquent man of God, the Rev. Mr. R-, of the Stanton-street Baptist Church. Her daughter was at this time at a female Jesuit Seminary in Ireland, whither the mother had been persuaded by her confessor to send her. But upon her conversion, she sent for her child to return, and the latter was reported to have sailed in the B-, a Liverpool Packet, for this port. On the arrival of the vessel, the widow is informed that her daughter, died on the passage, and was buried at sea. This she doubts, because a priest, pretending to be a layman, but really a priest and a Jesuit, came over as the girl's protector. She feels certain that her daughter is yet living, and is detained by the Jesuits, under a wish to get the property through her. From sundry mysterious conduct between the Catholic first-mate of this ship and the priest alluded to, she has an idea that the whereabouts of the girl is known to this mate, in fact that he, with the consent of the priest, has concealed her, and for his services thus rendered, is to be rewarded at a fearful sacrifice to the poor girl and her distracted mother. Now, I cannot explain to you how I became acquainted with a certain fact, but let the fact suffice. There is a society or association in this city formed entirely of sea-going men, who have a large establishment devoted to their service, where they meet for pleasure whenever they get into port. They have their pass-words and countersigns, and no one can enter without these. When once admitted, the visitor can get anything which money can purchase, for his money. To this place, it is supposed by me, that this poor girl has been carried." 
               "Can you get admittance?" 
               "Yes, I have been there repeatedly. I have the pass and countersign, both of which I shall give to you and the police officer whom I have selected to assist me, for we must enter singly and at different times, and then unite in the grand ball-room." 
                
               "Jupiter, what a romantic life you lead, Ernest! Is this girl pretty?" 
               "I do not know. I have never seen her." 
               "What is her name? Is that pretty?" 
               "Yes, if you think that IRENE is pretty." 
               "It is. But where are you going now-not to the Points?" 
               "No; but we will find the officer who is to go with us in Elmstreet. His name is Smith, a common name, but he is an uncommon man." 
               "Who is this rascally mate that you speak of?" 
               "His name is Rutherford, the bastard son of an Irish sea captain, who follows the sea because he is fit for nothing else." 
               "And the priest?" 
               "He rejoices in the cognomen of Morrison, but that is not his true name. His real name is Lynch." 
               At this moment, Cramer halted before a brick house in Elmstreet, near the Tombs. 
               "Stay here a moment," said he to Hilton. "I'll call Smith out." 
               Stepping to the door, he pulled a bell, which at each pull gave but a single sound, like the engine bell of a steamer. This bell he pulled ten times. While the sound of the tenth stroke yet vibrated, the door opened, and a man appeared. By the light of the street lamp in front of the door, Hilton could see that this person was also disguised as a sailor like themselves." 
               "Is that you, Mr. Cramer?" asked the man drawing a watch from his pocket to note the hour. 
               "Yes; am I not punctual, friend Smith?" 
               "True to a minute," replied the officer; "and I am ready." 
               Saying this, he descended to the street. 
               "My friend and room-mate, Mr. Hilton, Mr. Smith," said Cramer. 
               "Glad to know you, sir. Let's go into the Ivy Green and take a stiffener before we start," said Smith. 
               "Won't some one recognise you there?" asked Cramer. "We must be very cautious to-night." 
               "I'm aware of that. But my own wife, bless her pure heart, wouldn't know me now. Look at me here in the lamplight-would you know me now?" 
               "Indeed I wouldn't. Have you a wig on?" 
               "No; but I've put an easily-removed dye upon my grey hair: I've paled my rosy cheeks, and darkened my eye-brows." 
               "Well, you're disguise is good, I must acknowledge-your most intimate friends would never know you." 
               "Then come along-we'll smile, and then I'm at your command for anything that offers." 
               The trio then entered the well-known "Ivy Green," opposite the Tombs; but, reader, we won't go in with them-we'll wait outside till they appear. 
               Not more than five minutes elapsed before they came out. 
               "Ha! ha! ho! ho!" cried Smith. "That was a great idea! I blackguarded myself, and Nesbitt was going to thrash me for abusing Smith behind his back. You're satisfied now with my disguise?" 
               "Yes, perfectly," replied Cramer. "You act the sailor like an old salt." 
               "Well, where are we bound now? You've given me no explanations yet." 
               "You've heard of the Seamen's 'M. F. F. and P. Society,' have you not?" 
               "Yes, a hundred times, but never could get a trace of it, though we've often been on the lay for some of them, on account of abductions and other matters." 
               "Well, I shall to-night introduce you amongst them." 
               "The devil! Excuse me, Mr. Cramer, but are you in earnest?" 
               "Yes, Mr. Smith, and as, from your knowledge of the characters of rough and lawless rovers, there is some danger in the adventure, I asked your company to aid Hilton and me in the adventure. I go there to-night to look for a lady. If you deem the expedition too dangerous or risky, you can yet retire." 
               "Look here, Mr. Cramer," said the officer, in a tone bordering on the indignant, "did you ever know any thing of a milk-soppish nature about me?" 
                
               "No; if I had, you would not have been selected by me to-night," said Cramer, frankly. 
               "Ah, thankee-thankee! I'm not one of the kind that backs down before I'm hurt. I'm always fixed for service, like a percussion cap! Which way is this crib?" 
               "In South street. We enter by a basement, through a common rum cellar, but when we're once inside, you'll see such sights as don't often meet your eyes." 
               "Nice, eh?" 
               "Nice-the furniture of the establishment, so far as I've seen it, never cost less than a hundred thousand dollars. 
               "The deuce! It must be nice! Is it above Fulton?" 
               "No-below. We may as well go down Nassau to Fulton and then turn down I'll explain matters as I go along." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX 
               IN a chamber, most magnificently furnished, a female was seated by the side of a centre table, upon which an astral lamp, shaded by a pictured shade, was placed. Her head was bowed upon her hands, which were upon the table, and the rich locks of dark brown hair lay in curling masses upon the table, and over her fair neck and shoulders. Her form seemed to be of an exquisite mould; her shoulders were left exposed by her low dress; and where the hair was parted away, were white as alabaster, and very plump and graceful. 
               The room was evidently a bed-chamber, for in a little alcove, or ante-room, which had no door, gorgeous curtains of crimson velvet, relieved by inner curtains of lace, could be seen. In another corner of the room, a marble bathing-tub, with "Croton-fixtures" attached, could be seen, and near it a toilet-table and a pier-glass, extending from the floor to the ceiling of the room. The furniture was rich, but of a too voluptuous cast for gentility. The sofas and ottomans were cushioned with crimson velvet; the chairs were cushioned with the same material. A very rich but gaudy carpet was on the floor-a carpet so soft that no footsteps in crossing it need be heard. Pictures there were on the walls; paintings of old masters, but these were also of a class bordering on the obscene. The unwilling wedding of the Sabines was one subject; Venus and Adonis another; and still another was that of Hero receiving Leander, as he came nude and dripping from the angry waters of the Hellespont. 
               Suddenly the sound of heavy steps, appearing to be approaching the door, was heard. The female raised her head from the table. Oh! what a spiritual beauty was pictured in her countenance. Her eyes were of that hue so deeply, darkly blue, that when they sparkled you would think them black; her cheek was pale, yet it was so transparent that you could trace each vein beneath the skin. Her features were Grecian-regular, as if drawn as an ideal of beauty, by some love-lorn, enthusiastic artist, whose talent was equal to his maddening enthusiasm. 
               A look of anxiety, not unmingled with an expression of fear, gathered upon her lovely face, as she heard the steps approach the door. A key was inserted in the door from the outside. Was she a prisoner? The door opened, and a man entered, who, taking the key from the outside, placed it inside, locked the door, and returned it to his pocket. The young girl, after seeing who her visitor was, again dropped her head upon her hands, as before. The man stood and looked at her, with his arms folded upon his breast, and a sneering smile upon his face. 
               To look at him, you would suppose him to be twenty-eight or thirty years of age. He was rather tall, of passable figure, though premature dissipation had rendered it slim and somewhat bent. His face was rather cadaverous from the same cause. His hair was a dull, rusty black-a singular color, produced by dye, for its natural color was red. He had extensive whiskers and imperial, of the same color His dress was of the "flash genteel" order, and he had the look of one who would be a dandy if he only knew how. His countenance was expressive of vanity and superciliousness; he looked like one of those cowardly wretches who are always open to anything which is not dangerous; one of those things who would whip a child to death, or strike a woman, because they are weaker than he-who would lie or steal, when either could be done with impunity, but who would run like a kicked cur, from the slightest sound of danger or retribution. 
               He stood by the door a moment, then advanced by the side of the girl. A shudder passed through her form as she intuitively felt his nearer approach, for his steps could not be heard on the yielding carpet. 
               "Well, Miss Irene," said he, in a haughty tone, "have you made up your mind to my proposition? Are you ready to become Mrs. Rutherford to-night, eh, my fair one?" 
               "If you are a man, take me home to my mother, as you promised. when you pretended to rescue me from that villain Morrison!" replied the girl, indignantly, raising her head, and darting upon him a look fiery with scorn and anger. 
               "Your mother thinks you are dead, girl." 
               "Then so much the more need of my hastening to her side." 
               "Poh! she'd think you were a ghost. I myself told her to-day that I saw you buried at sea." 
               "Monster! Wretch!" 
               "Spare your compliments, my dear, and give me an answer. My patience is nearly exhausted, and remember, you are in my power! No help can reach you!" 
               "Hark! I hear music. Oh, my God, that I could escape hence!" answered the girl. 
               "You cannot, girl, you cannot. That music is in the Grand Ball-Room of the society to which I belong. No one there would help you, were your screams for aid to reach their ears, which is impossible. No brother with us, interferes with the pleasures or arrangements of another brother. It is now eleven o'clock. The ball has commenced below. If you will be my bride, the priest shall be called at once; in fifteen minutes the ceremony will be over, and I'll take you down to the Ball Room, where you shall see more beauty and chivalry in an hour, than you ever before saw in your life-time. Come, what say you?" 
               "You would not force me to marry you. I hate you; you do not love me." 
               "Well, I don't know about that last. You're confounded pretty-and then you are heiress to a fortune that would make me more than independent for life, extravagant as I am. I have something of an inclination for you, and a decided and determined inclination to be master of your fortune!" 
               "Then Sir, hear my reply to your proposals. I would rather die than be your wife." 
               "Then you prefer being my mistress, for mistress or wife to me you shall be, and that before sleep visits my eyelids." 
               "Never! Never so help me Almighty God!" cried the fair girl rising, and displaying a form above the medium height-lithe and graceful as the swaying poplar. 
               "You cannot help yourself!" said the unmanly wretch with a sneer. "If you dare to resist my will, force shall soon subdue you." 
               As he said this, he reached forward his arms to encircle her waist. With a bound she sprang back from his loathsome touch, and in a tone hoarse from excitement cried: 
               "Stand off-stand off, you coward. Lay not your dastard hands on me, or I'll rend your eyes from your false face. I am but a woman, yet I am not the weakest of my sex. I do not faint at danger, and drop helpless into the arms of a wretch like you." 
               "Oh, how magnificent did she look in her anger! The color had rushed in a ruby flood into her cheek and mantled her lofty brow. Her eyes, dilated and brilliant with anger, conveyed more intense meaning than her words. Her voluptuous bosom rose and fell like the fitful waves of the ocean when aroused by a sudden storm. Her tall form quivered and seemed to expand with excitement. 
               For a moment her unmanly persecutor hesitated. He turned pale; he seemed, like a craven wretch as he was, to fear that weak unarmed girl-he whose strength was tenfold that of hers. A moment thus 
                     he he
                     he
                   hesitated, and then gathering courage he advanced toward her. She retreated to a corner of the room and as he followed she raised a chair and endeavored to strike him. But ere she had lifted it high enough to let it descend, he caught it with his right hand, wrenched it from her, and with his left arm clasped her waist. With all her force she dashed her clenched right hand into his face, while with the nails of her left she ploughed four deep furrows along his pale cheek, leaving blood where they passed. Then the unmanly wretch struck her a heavy blow with his fist, which for a moment stunned her and covered her fair face with the blood which spouted from her quivering nostrils. Ere she could recover, the villain had torn a silken scarf from her shoulders and pinioned her hands. Alas-then she was helpless. Bearing her to a sofa, he seated her on his knee and imprinted a burning kiss upon the bosom which was already spotted with her blood. 
                
               Wild, wild and terribly shrill and piercing was her shriek as she felt his fiery lips pressed upon her quivering form. 
               "Scream on, fair fool!" he laughed-"scream on; you can get no help." 
               But, at the very instant, ere the scream or the kiss was repeated, the door, which he had locked, was dashed in, and the wretched girl saw several men rushing toward her. Rutherford arose, and cried, "Hold, brothers, hold; remember the rules of our association." 
               "Brother be d-d!" shouted Smith. "Do you see this, you white-livered dog!" exhibiting as he spoke, the star of the New York police. 
               "To the rescue! To the rescue! Treason!-police in the house!" shouted Rutherford. 
               "Harry, bear off the lady: see, her hands are bound-carry her off!" cried Cramer, at the same time giving Rutherford a kick on the stomach which completely doubled him up, and scientifically planting a blow behind his ear as he bent forward, which laid him stiff on the soft carpet. 
               "We must be quick, there's more coming!" said Smith: out with your tools, boys, and be ready for a fight." 
               "Harry, can you carry her?-she has fainted!" cried Cramer. "Take her in your arms: Smith and me will clear the way." 
               In an instant more they had left the room, Hilton, as directed, raising the lovely form of the girl in his arms. Rutherford began to recover a moment after, and as he heard the sound of pistol shots below, rose to his feet, staggered as far as the table, and there stood and listened. 
               "Lost her, lost her sure as there's a hell, if they don't kill them and stop her below!" he muttered. "How in earth did they ever get in!-who were they." 
               He heard but three or four shots fired, then for a moment all was still. 
               "I don't like to go down there. There may be more of them, and a chance for a bullet instead of a knock-down!" muttered the cowardly whelp. "I'd like to know how things have gone" 
                
               Hasty footsteps were heard approaching. Rutherford turned pale as they came nearer, and after a few moment's hesitation, ran for the bed-room before spoken of. Before he could reach it, however, he heard his name called, and recognised the voice of the speaker. 
               "Is that you, Morrison?" he asked. 
               "Yes; in the name of God what have you been about! Is Irene Montressor gone?"- 
               "Yes, unless you have stopped her below!" 
               "Two of our men, the door-keeper, and Captain Scarn, of the Revolter, are stretched out with lead in them. I got a knock-down from a policeman's club, and they are all safely beyond our reach!" replied Morrison. 
               "Curse such luck! How did they get in?" 
               "God only knows! The door-keeper is dying, but he swears that every man who has entered to-night has had the pass-word and countersign." 
               "Then, there has been some treachery!" 
               "Treachery there has been!" cried another person, entering 
                     the the
                     the
                   room; "for here is a pocket-book dropped in the scuffle, and the name of 'ERNEST CRAMER' is written inside of it." 
               "Ernest Cramer! the enemy of our holy and infallible Church!" groaned Morrison, the priest. 
               "By the God who made me, he shall die for balking my aim!" muttered Rutherford. 
               For the residue, and a satisfactory ending of that night's adventure, we must change the scene. 
               Behold a picture! In a small parlor, neatly, but not gaudily furnished, a lady was seated beside a table, reading. She was evidently past the meridian of life-probably fifty years had passed since she first drew breath in this world of woe and pleasure, sin and sorrow, luxury and want. Grey hairs had begun to steal in among her dark hair, which was mostly covered by a neat white cap, which gave her a matronly look. Her dress was deep black, but of fine material, and her appearance indicated that she was not one of those unfortunates who, when widowed by the decree of Providence, are wedded to bitter, biting poverty. Her features were good, and the expression of her countenance was noble and dignified. Yet there was a look of settled sorrow resting there, a look of unutterable grief, but it was calm-calm as the shadow of a rock upon the waters of a lake unrippled by a breeze. 
               She was reading aloud, from the Scriptures-reading that touching and most beautiful Psalm of David which commences thus-Bow down thy ear, O Lord: hear me, for I am poor and needy!" After she had read it, she arose, and with a deep sigh, murmured-"God is good and just-may HE give me strength to bear my affliction. Like the inspired Psalmist, I will pray for His aid." 
               Kneeling, with her hands pressed upon the sacred book which she had been reading, in a deep, tremulous tone-tremulous as if with reverential awe and respect for the Mighty Being whom she addressed-she prayed: 
               "THOU who art the God of the widow-the Father of the fatherless-THOU who lookest down upon and carest for the birds of the air, the fish of the sea, the brutes of the forest, and even the worms of the earth-THOU who feedest the sparrow and carest also for sinful mortals-THOU who doest all things wisely-hear me, I beseech thee! If my child yet lives, O protect her-suffer not the enemies of the law to overcome her and bring her to death, or worse than death! Spare, O Lord, spare the last hope and comfort of the widow! And if she be passed away-if she be beyond the help of this world, and past its ills, make me thankful that THOU hast taken her, for THY will is good-let it be done now and forever,-Amen!" 
               "Amen!" said another voice at the door, which stood ajar. 
               The lady started to her feet with a scream of surprise. Ernest Cramer appeared on the threshold. 
               "Excuse me, Mrs. Montressor, if I alarmed you," he said, in a low tone. "The servant said you were in the parlor, therefore I came without announcement." 
               "Have you heard any news of my child, Mr. Cramer? Oh, I 
                  know you have, or you would not visit me at this late hour! Speak-I can bear it-is she living or dead?" 
               "Be calm, madam, she is living, and I hope you will soon see her!" 
               "Where-oh, where is she? Tell me, that I may fly to her side. I care not where it is, they shall not keep her from me!" 
               "She will be by your side before long; but, madam, I pray you to be comforted." 
               "I am! Tell me all, Mr. Cramer, tell me all! Is Irene in safety-will she be restored to me? Tell me, that I may see her once more, and I will thank God and die!" 
               "You must not speak of dying now, Mrs. Montressor! You are needed as a guardian more than ever to your beautiful daughter, who, in her womanly beauty, is exposed, in a cold and bitter world, to many a danger. But now that you are calm and composed, I will bring her in." 
               "Bring her in! What do you mean? Is she so near?" gasped the mother. 
               The reply came from the lips of the lovely girl herself. As Cramer stepped aside, she bounded in, and her mother's arms were open to receive her. There are scenes too happy and too sacred to be intruded upon by a third party. This is one. We will leave the mother and daughter alone for a while. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               IT was the morning following the night of the last described adventure. "His Eminence," in a rich dressing gown of scarlet velvet, was breakfasting fashionably-that is, lounging on the side of his bed, and taking his coffee from the hands of a servant, who held out a silver salver containing the materials. He had just set down the small porcelain cup which he had drained of the clear essence of the mocha berry, when his chamber door was opened, and his confidential servant entered. The brow of "His Eminence" grew darker 
               "What," he cried, languidly-"what is wanting so early, Dennis?" 
               "A call, your Eminence-he says he must see you immediately." 
               "He? Who?" 
               "The dark-complexioned brother who came here yesterday afternoon, Eminence." 
               "What, Father Morrison?" 
               "Yes, Eminence, the same-he is very urgent." 
               "Admit him-take away these things!" 
               In a moment more, Morrison entered. A dark streak reaching from his temples across his cheek, blue and discolored, showed that Mr. Smith, on the evening before, had left his mark on him. 
               "What is the cause of your early visit, son?" asked the priest, rather tartly. 
               "I would not come without good cause to disturb the morning meditations of your Eminence!" replied Morrison. "But I needed advice. Our prize, she whom you have placed under my care, and she whom I brought in safety across the ocean, has been rescued-has been torn from my custody!" 
               "Fool! What do you mean?" 
               "I defended her-endeavored to keep her; but see this scar! I was knocked senseless; and ere were three of them!" 
                
               "Of them! Who were they?" 
               Morrison drew forth the small pocket-book which was alluded to in the last chapter, and handed it to the priest. 
               "ERNEST CRAMER!" cried the latter, as he read the name. "The maledictions of St. Patrick be on him! He seems doomed to foil us in every point. How came he to know of this matter?" 
               "Heaven only knows!" replied Morrison. "I thought she was as safe as if she had been in the cells of our sister Ursula." 
               "Would to God she had been-there will trouble come of this!" muttered his Eminence. "This Cramer must be crushed-he must be stopped-he is becoming too daring and too annoying. He thwarts us in every aim." 
               "Leave him to me, Eminence. I will repair my last fault, and make up for her loss, by placing him where he can act no more against us." 
               "She is not lost-she must be regained! Think you that she has been restored to her mother?" 
               "Of course." 
               "Curses upon her! She shall not long be with her! Morrison, if you would not be tried for your neglect before the "Twenty Four," I warn you that you must recover her! Use money-scruple at nothing, but recover her. Do it, though you have to plant your dagger in her mother's heart!" 
               "And in Cramer's!" 
               "No! he must not be killed yet-leave him to me! I will act in his case!" 
               "I will obey, Eminence." 
               "Do-and if you would ever again win favor from me, secure the person of that girl again. Through her, and her alone, can we get the vast property that is needed by the treasury of the Holy Church more than it is needed by her. We will take care of her." 
               "Eminence, I will obey. Your pardon and your blessing!" 
               "Neither shall be given before I see that girl once more in the power of the Church." 
               Again "his Eminence" was alone "It is strange-it is strange!" he muttered-"how this mere boy in years-this single one-can do so much against a power which has uncrowned emperors and desolated kingdoms. God must help him-God must help him! Yet art can conquer-I will set yet another trap." 
               He rang the bell. The servant came. 
               "Send Allie, my fair young Scribe here!" he said. 
               The servant bowed, and retired. 
               When Allie came into the room, "his Eminence" looked at her for several moments without speaking, or responding to her timid salutation. His gaze caused her to blush slightly, and to cast her beautiful eyes down until the long lashes rested like dark threads of finest, glossiest silk, upon her pale cheek. Oh, how etherial and intellectual did she look-how little of the animal was there in her slender but perfect form-how much of soul in the expression of her lovely face. 
               "Yes," muttered the priest-"yes, she must conquer! Mere voluptuousness will never win or betray him. Blessed with intellect himself above the common mould, he can only worship intellect-full of soul and romance, nothing but a romantic and soulful being can ever attract his gaze from the dreamy visions with which he has surrounded himself in his high imaginings." 
               Again he paused. Allie had raised her large meek eyes to his, and stood wondering at words which she could not comprehend. But now he addressed her. 
               "Allie," said he, "you know how much I have done for you-how, when you was a feeble, deserted infant, I took you in mine own charge-reared you as tenderly as if you had been my own child-educated you under my own eye-have loved and trusted you as if you were my daughter?" 
               "Yes, my Lord!" 
               "What would you do for me, in return for all this?" 
               "Die, my Lord," said she, in a trembling voice-"die to serve you!" 
               "I ask not your death; but I have a work which it seems you alone are gifted enough to succeed in God has given you talent-you are a poet; even as an essayist, in preparing my own sermons, you have rendered me famous! With such talent you have a power in this Republic which neither wealth nor high birth can ever rival. And, my child, it is now that you must use it. I know a youth, high in ambitious aspirations, a young man, gifted with a soul and talents like your own-one whose delight it is to hold converse with the mighty secrets of nature-one who in his very youth sought the far off isles of the sea, played with the storm on the ocean and upon the lofty mountain tops, held converse with the muttering thunder, and laughed when the ragged lightning shattered the rocks around him. He has the spirit of the eagle with the tenderness of the dove-the courage of a lion with the kindness of a woman. How would you feel if you knew such a man!" 
               "Oh, my Lord-I could so love him-I could live on his smiles, and die when he frowned! I could weep when he wept, sing when he was joyous-go down into his grave, and lie upon his breast when death came to him!" cried the enthusiastic girl. 
               "Suppose him to be an enemy to our Church?" 
               "Oh, I would reason with him, pray for him night and day, pray with him-I would convert him to our faith." 
               "Then, Allie, you know your task. Such a man there is, and I give you full permission to win and wear him-the only condition being, that you make him a convert. By your pen you must reach his heart; you must draw him within the magic circle of love, by mystery and your beautifully written letters. You must paint for him a creature beautiful, as in truth, thou art, paint her worshiping aye, dying at the altar of his genius. If he has vanity, you cannot fail to reach it; if there is romance in his heart, the mystery thrown around you, (for you must conceal your name and all from him, till I bid you unveil,) will fling a chain of interest over him which he cannot break." 
               "Eminence-have I ever heard of this man?" 
               "Yes, sweet Allie, often. You have often written his name." 
               "Me, Eminence?" 
               "Yes, child, you have often written the name of Ernest Cramer." 
                
               "He! the heretic?" cried the girl with astonishment. 
               The priest smiled. 
               "I told you, child," said he, "that this young man was an enemy to our church-did I not?" 
               "Yes, Eminence, but never have I heard you before clothe him with such attributes of mind and heart, as you painted but now." 
               "Because, child, I was unwilling to do him justice. But you know how he, all alone, has combatted with us, how he has foiled and replied to our best writers. He is a mighty mind-he is honest too in his warfare against us, and it is for you to convert him and make him as useful to us, as now he is dangerous. Oh, Allie, he will love you-you alone can win him." 
               "I will try, my Lord!" said the sweet girl her brow flushing and her eyes brightening with 
                     enthusiam
                     enthusiasm
                  . 
               "Your reward will be great, my daughter. You will remove an enemy to the church, make him its friend and servant; you will win for yourself a mate that is worthy of you, one who will make earth a paradise to thee." 
               A sigh of happiness, of anticipated bliss, quivered on her red lips. Her bosom rose and fell as if with a new feeling. On such a soul as hers the impression of imagined happiness came quick and almost real. She loved-even before she knew why or wherefore, loved the picture that the priest, with wily skill and far too heightened coloring, had painted. 
               His Eminence smiled. He had touched the right chord. He was proud of his success; he now felt sure of succeeding in his aim. 
               "Go child," said he, "go and write a letter to Cramer. Write in terms at once delicate and pure as the breathing of a child, but bold and lofty as the song of an angel. Speak of a love which can worship for years in the dim distance that separates a star from a mortal; tell him of a worship which still is worship when adoration is hopeless. Write in strains of poesy and you must succeed." 
               "I will-I will!" she cried, and her voice usually so low and timid, rose to a firm, full note of musical sweetness. 
               "She will win, and then I will destroy him and his, even if it blasts her-her, my own child!" said the priest, with a sneering smile, after she had left the room. "Yes, yes, he cannot escape; if he does, and I am forced to the risk, the dagger or bowl shall finish him. But that must be the last resort, for he has friends who would die to avenge him." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI 
               ERNEST CRAMER and Serena Clifford were seated in the parlor where first they met. Side by side upon a sofa, with one arm around her slender waist, his other hand clasped between both of hers, they sat, gazing fondly into each others' eyes, talking of an event which was to occur at noon on the morrow-at noon on the Holy Sabbath Day-their marriage. 
               Do you feel any misgivings now, in regard to our future happiness?" asked Cramer, in a tone deep and low. 
               "Ernest, none! Why should I? It is with the full consent of my own family, nay, with their warm approbation, that I give you my hand. My own heart's consent was given the first hour we met." 
               "But, Serena, I wish you calmly to consider, and not to have love blind you to dangers and difficulties before us. You know how many and bitter are my foes; in my pathway are hidden the sneaking serpents of malice and envy; the hyenas of slander and detraction: I am liable to attacks of every kind." 
               "And Ernest, should I be worthy of your love if I should shrink from your side because of these? No-I will heed neither slander or any art-I will ever be the same in joy or sorrow." 
               "Should I meet death, or through some reckless perjury, or conspiracy be doomed to prison?" 
               "Ernest, I would share your dungeon with you." 
               "Angel! Oh! Serena, you have indeed filled a void in this yearning heart of mine, which no other being on earth could fill. I am indeed blessed of God, in finding a jewel so rare and precious to hang upon my breast. With you by my side, I will dash onward in the cause of Right, with freshened ambition and renewed strength. I will work for you, as well as for myself-and for-" here he whispered a low word or two in her ear, at which she blushed, but a rosy smile accompanied the blush. She made no immediate reply, but when a moment afterward he pressed his lips fondly to hers, she all fervently and purely returned the betrothal kiss. 
                
               It was noon-a Sabbath noon. The busy hum and thunderings of cart-wheels and omnibusses which so deafen one on a week day, in the city, were hushed. Now and then the booming roll of a distant church bell came swelling solemnly on the air, or the quick rattle of the rich man's carriage, as with a blooded team it drove swiftly by, could be heard, but few sounds were heard inside, except the heavy tramp of pedestrians, who moved leisurely along the side-walks. 
               In one of the lofty palaces built by men to worship GOD in-one of those buildings topped with a steeple, that men may gaze upon from afar off, between two and three hundred people were gathered. From the organ came deep and melodious notes, drawn from its strong lungs by a skilful hand. Through lofty windows of stained glass, a mellow light came in, adding to the solemn look of the place. Those who were seated, scattered here and there in the pews of the vast church, were silent as statues-silent as worshippers, who, at early dawn, bend before the Virgin's shrine, in some ancient cathedral. 
               Then, from a room in the rear of the church, came forth a minister, dressed in the white robes of the Episcopal Church. Following him came Ernest Cramer, leading Serena Clifford. She was robed in spotless white; a wreath of orange blossoms twined around her dark brown hair, was the only ornament she wore. Yet she looked beautiful as an angel. She was pale and trembling; but Cramer's step was never more firm, his air never more proud and lofty than then. Behind them came the bridesmaid-a lovely young girl with glossy ringlets, skin like alabaster, and a form graceful as Diana. By her side was a noble-looking young man, the groomsman. Both of these had been selected by Miss Clifford, at Cramer's request; for a sudden call had forced Hilton to hasten on a temporary visit to West Point, on duty, and Cramer had no other intimate friend. In the rear of these followed the family and friends of the bride. 
                
               The minister took his stand before the altar, and before him stood Ernest and Serena, each flanked by their proper attendant. 
               Raising his hands, the venerable man of God said-"Kneel, my children-we will ask God's blessing on this solemn ceremony." 
               The organ had ceased-not a breath could be heard-not a single sound, save the deep, solemn tones of that white-haired minister These were his words: 
               "FATHER, who dwelleth in serene but awful majesty in Heaven, and yet art everywhere-THOU who inspired that Apostle who declared matrimony honorable, look down upon this congregation, and upon these, THY children, who are about to take the holy and solemn vows before THEE and the world. Help THOU them to keep those vows; grant that they may so live, that when they die, they may not look back over an ill-spent life. Let this union be registered in Heaven as it is on earth, and may it never be broken, until THOU callest them home. AMEN." 
               "Amen," repeated Ernest Cramer. "Amen," sighed the lovely woman at his side. "Amen," said the fond parents of the beautiful bride, in tones quivering with emotion. 
               Then they arose. Solemnly the minister put the usual question, if there was any impediment to their marriage, or if any one present could say aught against their union. No one spoke; the ceremony proceeded. Each responded firmly, calmly, solemnly, as if each understood and felt the import of the vows they were taking upon them. When at last Ernest was told to place the ring upon her finger, he drew it from its case, and ere he placed it there, showed her a word which was engraved in it. That word was "Forever." 
               "Forever!" she repeated, looking in his eyes with unutterable fondness. A moment more, and the last words were spoken-the twain were one, and Ernest Cramer pressed a fond husband's kiss on a dear wife's spotless brow. A moment was passed in receiving the congratulations of friends, and then the bridal party retired to register their names as witnesses to the union. Again, with a more joyous tone, the organ's swelling notes were heard, like a holy song of thanksgiving and praise; and the congregated audience one by one departed, with feelings too deeply impressed with the scene which they had witnessed ever to forget it. 
               The bridal party now returned to their carriages to start for home. First in the cortege stood that of Cramer, before which a pair of noble steeds champed the bit. As he approached with his wife on his arm, the driver most incautiously left the horses' heads to open the carriage door. Ernest had just handed his wife in, she had not even taken her seat, when the horses, finding themselves free, bounded forward. The agony which Ernest Cramer felt for one instant, was too intense for utterance; her piercing shrieks fell on his ear, and with a bound which seemed superhuman he reached the step of the carriage, determined, if death came to her, he too would share it. The horses, more terrified by her screams, passed with furious speed up the street. Had it been any other day than a Sunday, when the streets are crowded with vehicles, death and destruction must have been speedy. 
               "Be calm, Serena, be calm, my blessed wife! I am with you!" cried Cramer. 
               "Oh, Ernest! to die-to die now, were too hard!" 
               "We will not die, dearest! God will protect us! Be calm! I can reach the box, get the reins and check the horses. Only be calm, and keep your seat-do not try to get out!" 
               Saying this, and closing the door, the young husband clambered to the top of the carriage and reached the driver's box. But his difficulties were not yet over. The reins were trailing in the dust, at the heels of the maddened horses. But still cool and undaunted, Cramer slipped down upon the pole of the carriage, and with a bold leap threw himself astride of one of the horses. To check them after this, gradually, but steadily by their bridle-reins, was an easy task, and in a few moments all was safe; the pallor of Serena had given place to the flush of pride that her husband had saved her. The rest of the bridal party soon rejoined them; and instead of finding, as they had feared and dreaded, the mangled corpses of the newly-wedded pair, they found them calm and happy, laughing at the peril through which they had passed. Serena declared that it was "quite romantic-almost as romantic as an elopement." 
               A week later. Ernest Cramer was married, and in mental quiet and fancied security, was enjoying a few days of exquisite happiness, in a village of that State which has had the credit of giving birth to the wonderful invention of wooden nutmegs, oak hams, and tin pedlars-a State which is not to be sneezed at or spoke lightly of, for she has ever sent forth her full quota of good men, and true; in war, like her present brave Governor Seymour, to uphold her credit on the battle-field; in peace, to represent her intelligence in the councils of the nation. In a hotel of this village, incognito, as they supposed, Ernest and his lovely wife were stopping for a week or so. But, alas! those who are "born to fame" can't avoid it, or its annoyances, as "Harry of the West" said, when he sought and prayed for retirement from the persecutions of those who wished to do him honor. On the second evening after Ernest and his bride had reached the Yankee Tavern, in the beautiful little village of N-, after Ernest and his bride had retired to the sanctity of their own apartment, a traveller arrived at the tavern. He was a man of middle age, apparently of genteel, but slender build; remarkable only for a dark, glittering, snake-like eye, and a profusion of jet-black whiskers, which concealed all the lower part of his face, except his mouth and upper lip. His dress was genteel, of a city cut, and his manner sufficiently important to gain extraordinary attention from the landlord and his "help," a sour-faced, old-maidish-looking female, who evidently kept the books, if she didn't appropriate her husband's unmentionables. He was allotted the second best room; a hot supper, consisting of boiled ham, fried eggs, and Johnny-cake, was prepared, of which he partook heartily, every mouthful being carefully watched and instinctively weighed by the aforementioned landlady, who poured out the pallid liquid which she christened tea, and sweetened with a very small quantity of sugar, which helped to darken the tea. While a tea, the stranger, who had already given in his name as John Clark, asked in a careless way if the house was pretty well filled up. 
               "Middlin'!" said the landlady. "Middlin'. There's Mr. Bilbo the lawyer, and the man that writes poetry and confusions (perhaps she meant effusions) for the paper-our paper, the 'Weekly Magnifier,' and there's the Doctor-he boards here reg'lar-and the stage drivers, there's two of 'em, on and off they board here-and there's the Squire, his wife died last Christmas, he and his darter, Peggy, they board here, but she's got a feller: Zeb Jenkins, who's been sittin' up with her for about six years, an' they're agoing to get married soon. And there's-" 
               "Good Lord, madam, you've got quite a crowd!" said Mr. Clark, interrupting the loquacious landlady, "but have you no travelling custom?" 
               "Strangers? Oh, yes-there was two of the nicest folks come night afore last that ever you laid your eyes on-a new married couple, I guess, for they're mighty lovin'!" 
               "Their names?-are they from the city?" 
               "Yes, city folks, I reckon, by their looks, but none o' your stuck-up sort. The man gave my little gal, Jerusha, (a proper nice gal is Jerusha, nine years old, and large of her age,) a bright dollar to buy school-books with, cause she said the varses of the Star-Spangled Banner right out, without missin' a word!" 
               "What kind of looking folks?" asked the stranger. 
               "Young, both young, the lady proper handsome, and well-behaved. and the man not bad looking, nuther." 
               "Don't you know their names?" 
               "They're writ on husband's decalogue that he keeps in the barroom-tho' we haint got no sperrits. We call it the bar-room 'cause it's the fashion. We don't keep no sperrits, 'ceptin' for sick folks. Ef you are sick, or hev the stomach-ache, or feel out o' sorts, why, we can give you a leetle sperrits as medicine." 
               "Thank you, I'm well,-but can you not let me see the book whereon these names are recorded? I'm from the city; perhaps I might know them." 
               "Oh, sartingly! I'll go and git it right off." 
               In a few moments the lady returned with what she called the "decalogue," which proved to be a common school "copy-book," in which various names were entered, with the dates of their arrival The stranger's eye was fixed on the last which was written. 
               "Ah, I thought so!" said he, with a very meaning smile. 
               "Eh? Thought what? D'ye know 'em?" asked the landlady, looking at the name herself. 
               "I know that handwriting," said the stranger; "yes, I know i well; but the name-the name?" 
               "Eh? Is there a mystery?" asked the landlady, setting both elbows on the table, and looking needleish at the stranger. 
               "I don't say there's a mystery," said he; "but-but, excuse me, madam, I'll say no more. If you'll give me a light, I'll go to bed." 
               "Neow, mister, dew tell me what this 'ere is. Yeou know 'em; aint-aint they m-a-r-i-e-d? If they wasn't, it would be awful, for our house is the decentest tavern in the county." 
               The landlady's tone betokened that her suspicions had been awakened by the mysterious manner of the stranger. 
               "They may be married," said he; "but if they are, it has been very lately; and besides, if they have, he is a candidate for the State's Prison, for he has another wife now." 
               "WHAT!" almost screamed the landlady-"Hev we got a bigamy in the house? Oh, my gracious! Let me call husband-let me call husband!" 
               "Don't speak so loud, dear madam, I may be mistaken in the name: he has his name down here as Smith. It's a common, I may say a very common name, and handwritings, like faces, are often similar, even if not precisely alike. Can't I see them?" 
               "Not without they're called out; they're in their room, and there's a bolt inside; but I could hollow fire, or raise a scream; maybe that would bring 'em eout! Shall I?" 
               "No, madam, it is no matter, because if there should be a mistake-" 
               "Oh, there ain't no mistake at all. I thought all the time she was a brazen thing, though she was so handsome, and seemed so prim Married folks, eh? Wonder if they've got money enough to pay their bill?" 
                
               "Oh, yes; he's very well off, and spends his money like a lord." 
               "Well, ef husband don't tuck it onto him, when he makes out the bill, I'll tuck it onto husband after they're gone." 
               "How long are they going to stay?" 
               "A week, they said; but they shan't stay a day after to-morrow, sure's as my name's Ruth Ringle! A bigamy in my house! Ef they know'd it, all my boarders would leave, 'ceptin' the lawyer, and he aint pertikler!" 
               "You had better let them stay, madam, to the end of the week, and then let them know that you know them. I don't wish to see them, on a second thought. What time do they get up?" 
               "Why, yesterday morning they was up very airly, and out a walkin' over the fields-I s'pose they'll do so agin." 
               "Well, please have me called at daylight, I will go on early-I have to be in Meriden on business to-morrow." 
               "On business?-it's court day, maybe you're a lawyer?" 
               "Yes, a sort of one, though I don't practice in this State." 
               "I thought so. Wall, you think I'd better let 'em stay?" 
               "Yes, but have them watched-I may some day want to prove that they were here as man and wife." 
               "Wall, you'll have no bother to prove that, for my words is as good as nary 'tother woman's in the neighborhood. Jest tew think of him an' that brazen hussy! Wall, wall, this is a strange world, and there are strange creeturs in it." 
               "True, madam, and if you please, now, I'll take a light and retire. Don't forget what I have told you. I am confident I am right-and when he has paid his bill, give this fellow and his pretended wife fits! His real name is Cramer-tell the woman that he has another wife, and you know it, but don't tell them how you found it out. Be careful about that-I shall often pass by here, and will always stop, Remember!" 
               "Oh, laws a massy, you needn't think I'll forget! He, to bring a bigamy to my house! Oh, I've a good notion to turn 'em right eout to-night, cold as it is! They're in the best room tew. Clean sheets and the new crockery wash-basin tew. It is tew bad!" 
                
               "Keep calm, my dear madam; and by the way, as I am to go on early, I'll pay my bill to-night. What is it?" 
               "Wall, let's see! There's the hoss, eighteen pence-supper and lodgin' for you-will you take a bite afore you start in the mornin'?" 
               "No, I never eat so early." 
               "Wall then, the sum total 'll be three and sixpence, an' ef you feel sick in the mornin', tansy bitters thrown in, though we never keep sperrits 'ceptin' for the sick." 
               "Here is a half-dollar, madam. Never mind the change-you are too reasonable." 
               The landlady took the half-dollar, examined it very closely to see that it was not bogus, and then deliberately tied it up in a corner of her handkerchief. She then lighted a tallow candle, and handing it to the gentleman, said: 
               "You know where your room is, Mister! It's the next one to theirs-ef they talk you can hear 'em, for the partition is mighty thin. There was cracks in it, but I pasted the Gospel Advocate all over 'era-but then that'll not stop listenin', tho' the bible says listeners never hears no good of themselves, and I know its true, for I listened one night when I heard the squire and lawyer Bilbo a talkin'; and what do you think they was a talkin' about?" 
               "Indeed I cannot imagine, madam." 
               "Wall, they was a talkin' about what they'd had for breakfast, and a grumblin' and complainin' of me, at that." 
               "Well, good night, madam. Have me called early, if you please." 
               "Good night, Mister! I'll wake you up myself. I shan't sleep none with them are bigamies in my house. I am glad I haint got no silver spoons." 
               The stranger now retired and the landlady busied herself in clearing off the table, muttering her thoughts about the "bigamies,"-"not loud, but deep." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               ONCE more we must enter the "Hall of the Convocation of the Twenty-four Elders," that room draped in black as if in consonance with the deeds revealed there, and the plans there concocted to strengthen and spread the power of the most infamous and dangerous society that ever existed in the world-a society which honors no principle, feels no mercy, has no bounds to its grasping ambition-which is as mercenary as it is intriguing and base. 
               The elders were all there, each man in his chair, and "HIS EMINENCE" was standing on the elevation at the head of the table, prepared to address them. Upon the face of each priest the candle before him cast a wan, sickly light-all looked stern and gloomy. His Eminence glanced from face to face for a moment, and then in his usual bland, serious tone, addressed them: 
               "Brothers and Elders," said he,-"since we last met, many things of serious import have occurred-things which required immediate action, and possessed of the authority, we have acted! We have added to our Treasury the sum of one hundred thousand dollars; we have secured a new convert in our editor, whose pen is of great political weight; we have taken three young ladies into the Convent of St. Ursula, whose families have immense influence in the land. These are the bright objects upon which our minds with due thankfulness may dwell. But all has not gone pleasantly with us-we have met with obstacles and reverses. The arch enemy, the heretic of whom I spake at our last convocation, still opposes our progress. He has rescued a daughter whom the Church had marked for her own, and we may thereby lose her fortune, upon which our eye had been placed, as a heritage for the Lord. He has aroused thousands, and excited them against us. He seems to anticipate all our aims-to have a knowledge of all our movements. He must speedily be crushed, and our study must be how to do this so as to undo all that he has done against us. To this effect I am now drawing a net around him-my spies are watching his every movement. His free, bold pen has made him envied and hated by the Press-we will, ere long, bring a combination to bear which will crush him and his friends. The next thing for our consideration is to put a stop to the idea of general and liberal education, which is gaining ground so rapidly among the people. It must be stopped before it is too late. Urge upon your people, and use your power in the confessional, to crush it. Bid all voting men to vote against it, to use their influence with others. If free education succeeds we will perish-for we know, and amongst ourselves can say it-the ignorant are the most obedient and the most devoted of our followers. 
               "Brothers-I have met you, more to allude to this last subject, this morning, than for any other purpose. I beseech you at once to act upon my suggestions. 
               Each priest silently bowed his head in reply to the "order" of "his EMINENCE." The latter continued: 
               "Brothers-we have a great work before us, and but little time to do it in. Each arrival from the old country brings us information of serious import. We see kingdoms crumbling-thrones falling to earth The time is fast approaching, when the seat of the church must be removed hither. When the Papal throne must be erected in this vast Western Empire. That this can be done without effort, no one can suppose. But that it can be done, no good Catholic, no true follower of Saint Ignatius, will doubt. We must labor to this end, and for this end, all things are justifiable. For this end I have associated with and formed plans in connection with thieves and murderers-with criminals of the darkest grade, for well you know our adage, the end justifieth the deed. It is our wish that each of ye take active measures, in your district, against the American societies. Stir up dissensions between your flocks and them-the quiet policy is no longer needed-we are strong enough now to show a bold front. 
               Now, brothers, ye will leave the offerings for the Treasury, and we will separate to meet again at the usual hour." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               ON the day after the marriage of Earnest Cramer to Serena Clifford, his Eminence was interrupted in a letter which he was writing by the entrance of his fair amanuensis, Allie, with a morning paper which she held in her hand, and toward a portion of which she pointed. The priest smiled as his eye rested on the paragraph which she indicated. 
               "I knew of this, before!" he said. 
               "Then the plans of your Eminence are frustrated." 
               "Not a all," he replied-"it only makes the matter more romantic." 
               "Surely, it is useless for me now to pursue the matter!" 
               "No, child, far from it. You will pursue it with even more ardor. You will win his love, and then-" 
               "But, Eminence, his wife! his wife?" 
               "Will be so no longer than you please! A divorce can be easily gained in this land, where law and justice stand ready for the use of the highest bidder." 
               "But, my lord, if she loves him, that would break her heart." 
               "Heart? Child-child, judge not that all others have hearts because you have one. Her heart is not of a kind which will break easily." 
               "Does she not love him, or he her?" 
               "Love, girl? Why, they've been acquainted but a few weeks! Do you think love can be born in an hour-spring into existence like a mushroon?" 
               "Yes, Eminence. My heart tells me that love knows no time that it is the subject of no will-that it is as eccentric and as independent of all human power, or planetary rule, as the blazing meteor which darts athwart the sky." 
                
               "Child of Nature, the realities of life, only, will cure such romance," said the priest, with a smile. "I will soon show you how matches made can be broken-how the erring can be won back. Do now as I bid thee. Write him a letter, full of deep, devoted, hopeless love. Tell him that one, to him unknown, is watching his every footstep fondly, guarding him in danger, waking when he sleeps worshipping in silence and in tears. Write, as thou in thy dreamy hours can write so well. If you but wake in his bosom a single desire to know who thou art, or kindle one spark of pity, the rest will be easy." 
               The young girl looked sad and perplexed. She shook her head gently, and murmured: "If she should love him, it would break her heart!" 
               "What are human hearts or human lives, where the glory of the Church is concerned!" said his Eminence, in a tone of unusual severity. 
               "Pardon me, Eminence, pardon me, I meant not to offend!" 
               "You did not, sweet child; but you know how it frets me when I plan for the good of the Church and the glory of God, to have my views questioned. In the Church, we, who are its heads, ask nought but obedience-implicit faith and obedience. God has given us the heretics for a spoil, and their land for a heritage. All things are right which are done against them. But this young man has that in him, which, turned into the right channel, would make him useful and great. I repeat, Allie, that you must win and wear him." 
               "Where is he now?" 
               "Absent for a few days on a bridal tour. A faithful friend of ours has followed him-will watch his every footstep. Already the seed of suspicion has, through him, been sowed in the heart of the young bride-already has he seen a foreshadowing of the persecutions he must endure, if I err not, for I have sent the messenger forth. But he will return-the letter I bade you write must be the first to meet his eye." 
               "Father, I will obey." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               "How strange they act in this house, Ernest! Last night that landlady turned her snub nose up, as she waited upon us at the tea-table, and was as short as her own pie-crust in her answers to me." 
               Thus spake Serena Cramer, as she was robing herself, after her third night of married life in the country. 
               "They certainly act very differently from the manner in which they conducted themselves when we arrived," said Cramer. "They must have discovered our incog., and not knowing our reasons for wishing to pass a quiet week of happiness, regard us with suspicion. After breakfast I'll try and find out." 
               "Breakfast! breakfast!" was heard in a shrill shriek from below. "Please to come to breakfast!" was heard again a moment later, at the door, the voice being accompanied by a distant sound which resembled the ringing of a cracked cow-bell. 
               Cramer and his wife were soon ready, and shortly after descended, arm in arm, to the breakfast room. Mrs. Ringle already was seated at the head of the table, with a huge tin coffee-pot before her, and a few very small "crockery" tea-cups at hand. Her face looked as sour and pale as buttermilk, while she poured out and economically creamed and sugared the coffee to suit her own taste, and her husband, who sat on her right, looked pale and scared, as if he feared that a storm was brewing. The other boarders were scattered along the table, each apparently more intent upon getting a fair share of the few slices of ham and eggs which were around, than upon watching the looks or movements of the others. 
               "Hope your coffee's sweet enough this mornin', marm!" said the landlady, with a toss of her head, as she handed the cup to Serena. 
               "It is doubtless sweetened in proportion to its strength!" said the lady, in a tone and with a smile which Ernest understood, and which even the landlady could not entirely misunderstand. 
               "I s'pose we plain country folks don't make our drinkin' stuff so all-fired strong as you city folks do; but it's good enough for us, and we're as good as anybody, and a little better than some folks!" 
               A very lofty toss of the head accompanied this last remark of the landlady's; and while her sharp nose assumed a shining appearance at its tip, it also appeared to have taken another link in, in the angle, and to have pugged a degree more than before. 
               "Don't you think so, husban'?" said she, hearing no reply from any other source. 
               "Think what, my dear?" meekly responded the landlord. 
               "That we're full as good, if we ain't a leetle better, than some city folks!" responded Mrs. Ringle. "We country folks don't make bigamies of ourselves!" 
               Here Mrs. R. darted a look of scorn at both Mr. and Mrs. Cramer, which neither of them felt very much, neither comprehending its meaning or its cause. 
               "What d'ye mean by bigamy, Mrs. Ringle?" asked the lawyer-a long, lean, cadaverous-looking individual, with a very stiff, ear-endangering shirt-collar rigged out ahead of either cheek, who smelt a case, buzzard-like, ahead. 
               "Isn't it bigamy for a man to marry a young woman, if he's got another wife living?" asked Mrs. R., fixing her eyes on Cramer, who was just then engaged in severing the wing-joint of a very tough fowl. 
               "It would be bigamy, if he married a woman, young or old, provided he had a livin' wife at the time of the contract. Ahem!" said the lawyer in a tone of oracular dignity. Do you know of such a case, Mrs. Ringle?" 
               "Yes, I do; and I know that some folks don't go by the name their father and mother give 'em, when they travel!" said the landlady, in a louder key, still looking at Cramer. 
               "Wife, wife, be keerful!" said the husband in a deprecating tone. 
               "Don't you wife ME, Mr. Ringle; I know what I'm about, an' what I say. I'm a decent woman, I am, and ain't no bigamy, nuther!" 
                
               Here poor Serena was favored with a look which would have soured a pan of new milk. 
               The direction of the landlady's looks, and the pointedness of her remarks, had now become noticed by all at the table except Cramer and his wife, who, in their innocent and utter carelessness of all around them, and beyond the little world of their own love, saw nothing, cared for nothing. But Ernest, happening to raise his eyes, noticed that every look was turned toward him, and the expression of each face was so singular that he was tempted to enquire what was the matter. 
               "Matter enough, I reckon, if yeou don't git out of this State purty soon!" said the landlady. "Bigamies goes to State Prison here!" 
               "Bigamies, good woman! What do you mean?" 
               "Don't good woman me, feller! Though I guess I be as good a woman as that hussy o' yourn; I'm an only wife, at any rate! 
               "What do you mean-these insults seem to be premeditated?" 
               "You needn't make up no dictionary words to me, Mr. CRAMER. Ah! I thought that would touch you. Now, I guess, you'd better pay your bill and travel; you see I know you!" 
               "Ernest, what does this woman mean?" said Serena, shrinking back in terror from the gaze of the men, whose eyes were all fixed on her. 
               "God only knows! she has discovered my name, but that's nothing. There is some mystery in this; I'll unravel it. You say my name is Cramer, madam," he continued, addressing the landlady. Will you have the kindness to tell me how you found that out?" 
               "I don't tell how I find out things; it's enough that I knows 'em. You don't deny that your name is Cramer?" 
               "No." 
               "Then what did you put it down Smith for, on our decalogue?" 
               "A clear case of false pretence," muttered the lawyer, sotto voce. 
               "To protect myself and wife from impertinent curiosity," said Cramer, reddening with anger; "and if I find it necessary, will take means of a stronger nature to protect us both from insult." 
                
               Oh, you awful creetur! Ef the Squire don't take you up, he's good for nothing." 
               "A threat of violence is sufficient to bind over in two good sureties," muttered the lawyer. 
               "Serena, come, go up to the room with me," said Ernest to his alarmed wife. "I will leave you, and return and settle with these contemptible wretches." 
               Too terrified to speak, trembling and blushing, the young wife took his arm and left the room. 
               Then a council of war was held in the room below, to the utter neglect of weak coffee and the other "fixins." The landlady insisted upon the Squire's arresting Cramer for bigamy. But the latter was a man of some little caution, as also of sufficient legal knowledge to know that mere suspicion would not justify a warrant, especially on so serious a charge. He asked the lawyer how he should proceed. 
               "We must have some proof," he said. "Here we have a report second-handed, through Mrs. Ringle, from a person whom nobody knows, and who has gone off, the Lord only knows where. Without somebody'll swear that he is a bigamist, I can't take any steps toward his arrest." 
               "I'll swear it-yes, I'll swear it on a whole stack of bibles, so I will," cried Mrs. Ringle. 
               "Then if it shouldn't turn out to be true, you'd be liable for perjury," suggested the lawyer. 
               "I don't care," she cried; "I'd rayther be a perjury than a bigamy. Ef the Squire don't take up that wicked man, I'll never speak to him as long as he lives. Just as if one wife wasn't enough for any man." 
               "One would be, if he possessed your amiable qualities, madam." said the object of her wrath, entering the room. 
               "I don't want none of yer insinerrations against me, mister. I only want your money for what you've eat and slept in my house." 
               "State the amount of your bill, madam, and it will give me extreme pleasure to settle it," said Cramer, with a calm and pleasant smile on his face. 
                
               "It's eleven dollars, ef you've got that much," replied the tartaric specimen of humanity. 
               Cramer drew a heavy purse from his pocket, and rolling out a handful of gold, selected two eagles and laid them upon the table. The grey eyes of the landlady looked at the golden treasure, as if it was a magnet for the vision. 
               "Husband-got change for this 'ere big gold piece?" she asked, in a much lower tone. 
               "No, haint got so much change in the house I'm afeard-I'll go up-stairs to the bureau and see," replied the husband. 
               "Stop, sir, a moment before you go-I've something to say to all who are present. To annoy me, or insult me, seems to have been an intention on the part of some or all of you. This woman, not content with a common method of insulting, charges me with bigamy, to the terror and annoyance of my young bride. I came to this quiet village for a few days of relaxation, from the cares and business of a city life. I came incog, not wishing to make any acquaintance or receive any more attention than the common civilities due to a stranger. But the insinuations of that woman make it necessary that you should know who and what I am. My name is ERNEST CRAMER, my profession that of an AUTHOR; my address, No. 6 B-street, in the city of New York." 
               "Mr. Ernest Cramer!" muttered the lawyer. 
               "Mr. Ernest Cramer-dear me, I've read his books!" murmured the Squire's daughter. 
               The landlady looked first at her husband, then at the rest of the company, then down at the gold which lay before her-her countenance indicating confusion and perplexity. 
               "Now," continued Cramer, "I should like to know why I have been insulted. Who among you here, have got up this infamous piece of business." 
               "I assure you upon the honor of a gentleman and a member of the bar, Mr. Cramer, that none of us have had any part in this, nor intended to insult you, or wound your feelings!" said the lawyer. "Some traveller, passing this morning, and seeing your name in the bar-book, told Mrs. Ringle that you were married to another wife." 
               "My name was not entered upon the book." 
               "He said he know'd your hand-writin', sir!" said the landlady, her voice becoming mild and beseeching. "He told me such a story, sir, he set me up dreadful 'gainst you, but I hope you'll forgive me, sir-he was a nice looking man-a grand looking man-had whiskers, big black whiskers." 
               "He was some villain who wished to annoy me, by his infamous hoax!" said Cramer, bitterly, "and he has succeeded, so far as annoyance is concerned. Now I will take my change, if you please 
               I believe the stage passes in half an hour. I wish to arrange for my departure." 
               "Now, Mister Cramer, don't go to-day. Don't go off in a huff cause a rascal made me believe you was a bigamy, and made me carry on so!" said the landlady, looking as sweet as a fresh pumpkin pie. "Your wife is the properest, nicest behaved lady ever I did see, and I'll go right up and ask her pardon, so I will." 
               "You can save yourself the trouble, madam," said Cramer, "she is changing her apparel for travel. I will bear your excuses to her The change, if you please." 
               "Oh, Mister Cramer, you make me feel so mean. That one ten dollar piece there, is enough, goodness knows, for you've been no trouble at all. Oh my gracious, the next time a man comes and sets me against good boarders, I guess I'll know it." 
               To understand the reason of all this scene, we must witness another, and to describe it, I'll open a new chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV 
               ALLIE had left "His Eminence" but a moment, when the favorite servant of the latter entered, and reported the name of "Judas Iscariot Arnold," stating him to be in waiting for an audience. 
               "Admit him-always admit him without ceremony!" said the priest. 
               A moment passed and Arnold appeared; not the same close shaven, pale, sleek-looking man whom we have seen, but a dashing, bewhiskered individual, whom at the first glance you would take for a fop of the first water. Were it not for that small, dark, keen, snake-like eye and his thin lips, even "His Eminence" would have doubted that Arnold stood before him, but those were marks which could not be mistaken, in spite of his false whiskers and disguise, and extending his hand, he said: 
               "You are truly welcome, friend; hast news of the common enemy?" 
               Arnold, with one of his sinister, meaning smiles, took a chair and seated himself before he replied. Then, when a frown of impatience began to cloud the high brow of "His Eminence," the man, with a low chuckle, said: 
               "I've had rare fun-rare fun!"- 
               "Well-explain! Let me enjoy, by hearing it." 
               "Your Reverence shall! Oh! it was rich-ha! ha! ho! ho! You see, when he got married, he started upon his 'bridal tour.' I meant to have dogged him every step of the way, but by an accident I was detained, and he got the start of me by a trip in the boat. But I followed the next day, and found him rusticating at a nice little country tavern, where a regular Yankee landlady presided. Her I impressed with a terrible idea that he was not married to Miss Clifford, but had another wife living, and though I did not wait to see the scene that followed, I know one did follow, for this morning I saw him, pale and evidently annoyed, returning with his bride to the city. Ere now she has a letter, too, which coming apparently from an injured woman, will add to her disquietude, to say the least. The seeds of suspicion once sown in a woman's breast can never be entirely eradicated, and when but a spark of the fire of jealousy once catches there, it will burn, even half smothered though it be-it will burn until it bursts forth in a flame which human power, and truth, the very ears of truthful innocence, cannot quench." 
               "You have done well, nobly well," said the priest, with a smile. "You possess qualities which would fit you admirably for a servant of our Order." 
               "What are they; may it please your Reverence to explain?" 
               "Excuse me, and I will. You are bold and unscrupulous; wise as a Solon, cunning as a Mercury, and that which you undertake you complete! Had you lived in the days of Loyola, or even were you now near the person of his Holiness at Rome, you would stand a fair chance for wearing a Cardinal's hat of scarlet." 
               The man smiled as only he could smile; a smile so dark and sinister that even His Eminence shuddered. 
               "I seek not that honor!" he said; "I seek a power which boundless wealth alone can bring me. I seek a power which can rule the courts of Justice-which can bring Innocence weeping and helpless to my feet; a power which can subdue virtue, which can crush my enemies and make my friends subservient to my will. I wish a power which can damn America, which holds my name in perpetual disgrace" 
               Wealth shall be yours, if you but succeed in crushing Cramer, and with his fall, succeed in so damning the principles which he advocates, as to stop the advances of the Order to which he belongs. Yes, wealth so boundless that an ASTOR would bow humbly to you." 
               "I shall succeed," said Arnold, quietly; "I shall succeed! I shall visit my friend Cramer to-day, and relate to him particulars of an aggravated wrong, which will, I hope, induce him to load himself with a libel suit with an editor whose wealth and want of principle, and whose influence all combined, will make him a dangerous enemy." 
               "But how will you do this without showing your hand at too early a stage in the game?" 
               "I have that all arranged. There are men connected with the bar in this city, as your Reverence doubtless is aware, who are ready for anything. Men who are thieves by nature, and who being allowed and countenanced in crime, have gained a confident audacity which almost surpasses belief. One of these I know, a plausible, well-connected scoundrel, whom I have moulded to my aims, and whom I shall use in this matter. He associates with our 'first families,' and can give 'references' which would satisfy a far more suspicious mind than that of the too-confiding Cramer; and I feel sure that I can succeed through him in bringing on a crisis which will bring our enemy legally into trouble, and also sink him in public estimation. While working this plan, I shall also be busy in wrecking his domestic happiness, and in endeavoring to bring upon him the shame and disgrace of a public separation from his young and lovely wife, and in this last matter I look for the aid which your Reverence has promised." 
               "Admirable friend! You shall not be disappointed. We cannot fail," said the priest, forgetting his usual dignity, and warmly grasping the hand of the vile miscreant who sat before him. 
               The servant entered at this moment and handed his Eminence a card. 
               "Ah!" said the latter, as he glanced at it. "Our trusty servant MacVampyre. Tell him to come up!" 
               When the servant turned to obey the order, the priest remarked to Arnold- 
               "You doubtless know MacVampyre?" 
               "I do by reputation, but have never met him," replied Arnold. 
               "He is a useful dog," said the priest. "He does not possess much talent, but he is an excellent liar, a very plausible liar, and has no scruples. He is always ready, very obedient and docile, and uses his Gazette to great purpose in our cause. True, he is mercenary to a fault, but we can afford to pay servants who work as he does." 
                
               The conversation was here interrupted by the entrance of a tall, slim, cadaverous, thin-lipped individual, whose body seemed to be made for cringing, it was so pliable. He bowed low on entering, bowed as he stepped forward, and when his Eminence extended his hand, bowed again and kissed it. 
               "We are glad to see you, Mac!" said his Eminence. "Let me introduce to you a friend of our cause, Mr. Arnold-Mr. MacVampyre, editor of the 'PROPAGANDIST OF JESUITISM,' a journal of great influence, circulated among the faithful, gratuitously in many cases." 
               "I am the gentleman's most obadient humble servant," said the new comer, with a strong Sligo accent, bowing three or four times quickly in succession, and nearly touching the floor at each inclination. 
               "Mr. Arnold is a fine writer, and may wish to use the columns of the 'Propagandist,' for the purposes of which I am cognisant, and for the benefit of Holy Mother Church," said the priest. 
               "Your Eminence commands me. Anything which he writes shall find convanient insertion," said the Editor. "Sure, its an honor as well as a pleasure to serve yer Eminence." 
               "You are ever dutiful. I shall not fail to commend you to particular notice in my next epistle to our Lord at Rome. Did you write as I bade you in regard to the school system?" 
               "Yes, yer Eminence. I've come out with a new idea-one that'll take with the paple, I'm thinkin'. Yer Eminence knows what a horror almost all of 'em have for the name of 'infidel'-and I have termed the free school system as it now exists, an 'infidel' system." 
               "But," said Arnold, "the people at large will know better." 
               "D-n the paple at large-(beggin' yer Eminence's pardon for saying the same)-but before they find fairly out what the cause of the charge is, we'll have the law defated, and sure that's all we want If it is once crushed, we'll never permit it to be revived. My war cries against it are all taking. To the rich man I cry, 'taxation;' to the poor man, if he has a vote, I cry, 'infidelity wishes to  yer children,' and so with the two I know we can work to a good effect." 
                
               "True," said Arnold, "and being well acquainted with some points which can be reached and easily touched in American character, I will prepare a series of articles which will aid you." 
               "I'll be under tin thousan' obligations to ye, sir." 
               "Have you the 'proof' of the article I wrote in regard to the Sisters?" asked the priest. 
               "Yes, yer Eminence, I've brought it." 
               "Then, gentlemen, let me beg you to enter the next room for a few moments-you will find refreshments there. Dennis will attend you. I wish to revise the article." 
               "Certainly; but if yer Eminence plase, let me ask ef you've seen the Court report of the 'Daily Barber,'
                     We shave for all.
                   this morning?" 
               "No-what is there special in it?" 
               "A new, and I fear a rather too broadly spoken, but very natural idea of yer Eminence's friend, Judge Weekly. He issued this principle in a charge to a jury yesterday-that brothels are 'necessary evils' in a great city like this." 
               The priest bit his lips with vexation. 
               "It is too soon!" he muttered. "The man is foolish-the sentiment is right, but the people are not prepared. I'll 
                     repremand
                     reprimand
                   him. Yet he is a useful servant-it will not do to hurt his feelings. Mac, you must support him in the idea-a little special argument must be used to defend him if the 'Press' should attack him for it." 
               "Had not your Eminence better use a golden argument to keep them from writing at all on the matter and thus save the necessity of replying to any attacks, and prevent the people at large from hearing of an idea which they will pronounce monstrous, and which will arouse their indignation!" said Arnold. 
               "True-see to it, Mac-see to it. But there is one pen which cannot be bought, and nothing escapes the eye of that Cramer.-Henceforth, mark me, one of his by-words of reproach against us will be that one of our servants and adherents, has on the Bench declared that houses of prostitution are 'necessary evils' in a city." 
                
               "Yes, be jabers!" said the editor; "I can fancy I hear him now in his harangue to the cursed heretics, sneering out the name of our friend, and calling him 'Necessary Evil Wakely!' Sure an' it was a great oversight in him to make such a charge." 
               "I've no doubt that he was sincere and honest in his opinion, and spoke from a personal conviction that such things are necessary," said Arnold, with a slightly sneering accent. 
               "Excuse me now, gentlemen, I wish to revise these articles," said his Eminence. "You will find wine in the next room. I will join you in a glass, after I have finished." 
               The two men retired as requested. MacVampyre first laying a roll of proof-sheets, fresh and damp from the press, before his Eminence. 
               After they had gone, the latter touched the silver bell which lay on his table. The door from the inner room opened, and Allie, his fair young amanuensis, entered. 
               "Child," said he, in his mild, winning tone, "here is the 'proof' of your article upon the Beauties of the Convent System-revise it carefully; it is a beautifully written and plausible article, and will doubtless have its effect on many a fair daughter of Eve, who either dreads the world and its dangers, or is tired of it and its follies." 
               Sighing sadly, as if the task was painful, Allie seated herself at the table, and commenced revising the "proof" which he laid before her While she was doing this, the priest gazed at her intellectual, lovely face-at her slight but graceful figure; and while a look of disgusting sensuality gathered on his face, and a flush of passion rose to his very brow, he murmured, too low for her to hear it- 
               "Pity she is my own daughter!" 
               "Is it possible that "His Eminence," the "Governor General" of the Jesuit clan, is a bit better man than that "infallible Pope," Alexander, whose own daughter was his mistress? There is yet a hope, if "his Eminence" can refrain from following the example of the "illustrious" Pope, the "Holy Father" who holds the "primacy" over all the world, temporal and ecclesiastical, according to the belief of his infatuated dupes and followers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               ERNEST CRAMER was seated in his study, and close by his side was his young and lovely bride. Writing materials were before him, and a half-finished page of manuscript showed that he had been engaged in his old and chosen occupation. But the ink was dried on the paper, and the pen which he had carelessly dropped on the blank portion of the sheet, left no blot. The charms of his fair bride were evidently stronger than those which bound him to his "toil," if to write the free thoughts of a warm, impulsive, fearless heart, can be called toil. 
               "My beautiful, my own," he murmured, as he held that small, jeweled hand in his own-"mine, mine forever!" 
               "Yes, Ernest, thine, and thine forever!" she responded. 
               Then, bending forward, he pressed a fervent kiss upon her fair brow. 
               "My lips! my lips, Ernest!" she murmured. "To kiss my forehead seems so cold. Oh, kiss my warm, burning lips-thus-thus!" 
               Oh, how warm, how sweet, how full of that passion which wedded love sanctions, and makes holy, were her kisses! And how lovely, with the rosy blushes chasing each other across her cheeks, as sunlight plays upon a bed of lilies-and her dark blue eyes flashing with love-light, did she look! No wonder that after returning her salute, Ernest Cramer held her in his arms-at arm's length, and gazing at her in her queenly beauty, cried-"My God, is this real! Serena-angel, is this a dream, or is it real! Oh, are you mine-mine own!" 
               "Thine, Ernest, thine FOREVER!" she replied. 
               A low tap at the door was heard. The young wife drew her chair back from the close proximity to her husband-bashful yet, though a week had passed since their union. The person who responded to Ernest's call to "come in," was our old friend, Lizzie Laurel. But 
                  how altered! She was pale, pale as a corpse, and yet that deathly pallor became her more than the ruddy hue of health, it so contrasted with her great black eyes, her jet black hair. Her form seemed not to have shrunk from its partridge-like plumpness-it was, like the form of a maiden of "sweet seventeen," whom the writer wots of, as fully and voluptuously developed, as if twenty and five years had ripened its charms. Her air was meek, almost tearful her look, as with a quick glance at Serena, she turned and looked at Cramer, saying: 
               "Here are two letters, Mr. Cramer, which were just left at the door!" 
               "Thank you, Lizzie, thank you!" said Cramer, in a pleasant tone 
               She made no reply, but turned with a sigh which was audible to both Cramer and his wife, and left the room. One of them understood that sigh and its cause. 
               "Singular!" said Cramer, smiling; "here is a letter for you, and one for me, Serena." 
               "Why is it singular, dear Ernest?" said the young wife. "Do you think I have no friends?" 
               "By no means, dearest, but your letter is in a bold man's hand-writing-mine is the delicate characters of a female." 
               "It is strange, for I have no gentlemen correspondents!" said she. 
               "Serena," said Cramer, with a sudden impulse, "let us burn these letter unread! I know not why, but I have an innate suspicion that these letters unread are written to harm us-perhaps to try to alter our love." 
               "Ernest, to alter me is impossible. I'll soon show you." 
               Before he could say more, she had broken the seal of the letter directed to her. 
               Ernest smiled and opened his. He had scarcely commenced reading his, when a hurried exclamation from her lips, caused him to look up. She was as pale as a corpse-seemed to be gasping for breath. 
               "Serena! WIFE-oh what is the matter?" he exclaimed. 
               "Ernest," she murmured, while her whole form quivered with agitation-"if it was true, I would die!" 
               "If what was true, love? Is it as I feared-is that letter but another ther link in the plot with which they would ruin me-ruin us, for if one falls, both must!" groaned Cramer. 
               His wife made no reply, but handed him the letter. 
               He glanced at it and smiled. 
               "Ernest!" said his wife, "can you smile at that? There is a charge-a terrible charge there; and the name of the young lady is given-her name and address!" 
               "So much the better, love, for it will be easier to prove the falsehood of this charge." 
               "Then you do know such a lady as is there mentioned?" 
               "Yes, dearest, she is one of the most respectable ladies in the city the writer mentions, and I have a slight acquaintance with her-have seen and met her in company a half-dozen times, perhaps. I wish you to write to her." 
               "I cannot, Ernest-I cannot!" 
               "Then I shall, Serena. This infamous charge has been trumped up by some enemy, to produce a quarrel between you and me! My God, why cannot they let my domestic affairs-my home alone? My public character may be handled as they please, but my heart, my home should be sacred." 
               "They shall not invade it to your injury, dearest," said the young wife fondly. "I will not believe or care for any anonymous charge." 
               "Yet, dearest, as I know the lady mentioned here, it is a duty that I owe to you, to myself and to her, to clear up this affair. I shall write a letter now, before you, asking her positively whether I ever made any advances to her, of any kind, not even to think of the connexion spoken of in this letter. Whatever her answer is, you shall open and read it before I do." 
               "Ernest, I require no such proof. Your word is all sufficient-but if it was true, it would break my heart!" 
               "That "if!" Could it be that suspicion had entered that young and loving heart? Yes, or that "if" never had passed her lips. 
               "Ernest, without hesitation, wrote a letter to the young lady brought in question by the letter, asking in plain and unequivocal terms whether she had ever received any attentions of an amatory character from him, or whether in word or deed he had ever exceeded the bounds of propriety as a common and respectful acquaintance. This letter he sealed before his wife, called a servant, and sent it to the post-office. 
               After this was gone, he took up his pen again, as if about to resume his manuscript, when Serena interrupted him. 
               "Why do you not read your letter?" she asked. 
               "Because I think it is something written for the same purpose that the other was. It is written by a female, and I have no female correspondent." 
               "Read the letter to me, dear Ernest." 
               "What is the use, dearest? I don't care to know its contents." 
               "But my curiosity is excited-read it to me, Ernest, do please read it!" 
               "Your wish is my command, my love!" said Cramer, taking up the letter and reading aloud, as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "ERNEST CRAMER:
                            
                           "Dear Ernest-Start not, nor cast aside these lines because they are penned in a stranger-hand; read them, oh read them I pray you, as the murmurings of a soul which must speak or perish-as the utterance of a heart which must give vent to its feelings, or be rent in twain by the contending emotions within it. We have never met, and yet I know you-know you only to love, almost to adore you." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Serena, let me stop here, and burn this foolish letter!" said the young husband-"I see no use in reading it farther-it is the effusion of some romantic school-girl." 
               "No school-girl ever wrote that letter, Ernest-read on, I will hear it all!" 
               "When woman wills, man had better hold his peace, and obey!" said Cramer, with a smile, and he continued: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "We have never met, yet each night of my life, for many, many months past, I have retired to a bed of virgin innocence with you, or rather with the better part of you in my arms. Yes, every word you have written I have read in this chamber, where now, at the midnight hour, I write you. Ernest, I am an orphan, yet I am not powerless-I am but seventeen years of age, yet I am, in soul and mind and form, a woman-they say I am beautiful. Gallant men are bowing before the altar of my charms, perchance because they know that I am wealthy; but I spurn them all-they seek my gold, not me. Unasked, unbidden, I have dared to love you as ONLY I can love! To love you in the very face of hopelessness, for you who are so sensitive to honor-who looketh upon the soul of woman as upon the leaf of the 'morning glory,' which one breath of the warm sun of passion will wither and destroy, will despise her whose boldness and soul's desperation of love hath compelled these lines. Ernest Cramer, I love you. Meet me, know me, and you will love me. I have wealth, beauty, youth, innocence, and a free, stainless, worshipping heart to give you. Oh accept it, and you shall know a happiness that angels would covet! If you would know more, seek more-address a single line to the New York post-office, to 
                           
                              ALLIE V."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Beautiful, beautiful letter!" murmured the young wife. "Ernest, you should have married such as her, not me!" 
               "SERENA!" said that young husband, "Serena!" 
               She saw his reproach, his astonishment in his look; and casting herself in his arms, covering his face with kisses, she murmured-"mine-mine FOREVER!" 
               "Yes-as the ring on thy finger will tell thee, even when thou art far from my side, I am thine-thine forever!" 
               "Will you answer this woman's letter?" 
               "Yes, dearest." 
               A cloud gathered where the smile had slept but a moment before on the face of the young bride. 
               "What will you say?" 
               "See, my Serena, see!" said the husband, taking up his pen-"this is my answer:" 
               He wrote- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "The kind and flattering letter of the lady who signs herself Allie V. has been received and read by myself and WIFE! While I feel grateful for good opinions expressed in regard to the little talent which our good God hath given me, it would be unmanly in me not to say to 'Allie,' if she be not in jest, 'love one more worthy of thy love-make him happy, for I am happy now.' With respect, I am Allie's friend, and ob't serv't, 
                           
                              ERNEST CRAMER."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Dear-dear husband," cried the young wife-"how can I thank you?' 
                
               "Only by trusting me, as I would trust you. Serena, my public position as a writer-my continually being forced before thousands of readers as a romancist, will force upon me many a thing like this. I will give you no real cause for jealousy, and I pray you never to be jealous without a cause." 
               "I will not, Ernest, I will not. They say 'there is no love without jealousy;' I will prove the falsehood of the adage." 
               "God bless you, my own dear wife!" said the husband. "God bless you. Now have patience a little while till I finish this sketch, it must be ready for the press to-morrow." 
               The beautiful woman made no verbal reply, but laid the fore-finger of her sweet little hand upon her coral-red lips, between which, as the petals in a carnation, could be seen her small pearl-like teeth, as a token that she would be silent while he pursued his vocation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               HIS Eminence was seated again in his private chamber. As usual, his table was covered with letters, each letter being but a connecting link in the vast chain of Jesuit operations in America-and though each by itself was of minor importance, yet as a whole, they were of terrible and fearful import-a bundle of faggots dipped in the very brimstone of hell, only needing a spark to kindle a blaze which nought but patriot blood could extinguish. 
               As he read letter after letter, the import of the contents could be read in his face. One letter he would lay aside with a smile, and rubbing the palms of his lily-white hands together, would mutter, "Good-the cause is prospering!" While he read another, his brow would grow dark as a thunder-cloud, and the purple blood would rise to his cheeks, while he muttered-"Curse the heretics! curse them-they may triumph for a while, but then our time will come, and we will have blood for insult, vengeance for their temporary contumacy!" 
               Letter after letter was read and passed over-letters from the north and the south, the east and the west; and yet half had not been opened, when the confidential servant entered. 
               "I bade you not to disturb me for an hour yet, Dennis!" said the priest, angrily 
               "Your Eminence-father Morrison on important business!" said the servant. 
               "Eh! I bade him come not until-but perhaps he has succeeded-admit him!" 
               A few moments passed, and again the door opened. Morrison entered-not the shrinking, coward-looking servile person he was before but with a bold look and flushed face. 
               "Well?" said his Eminence, enquiringly 
               "It is well!" said Morrison. 
                
               "I bade you never enter my presence until you had repaired your neglect, and secured the person of Irene Montressor," said his Eminence. 
               "Has your Reverence glanced at the morning papers?" 
               "No-what is there in them which should interest me?" 
               "This!" said the priest, drawing from his pocket a copy of the "Daily Penny Barber," and pointing to a paragraph. 
               "What! dead? The widow Montressor died suddenly, eh? All her immense fortune left to the daughter Irene! Well, where is she?" 
               "At home." 
               "At home?-not in your power? Why came you here, sir? how dare you to come here?" 
               "To receive the orders of your Eminence. She must be left in quiet till her mother is buried, else public suspicion would be aroused. But her domestics are our servants-she can take no step without our knowledge; and the moment the heretic, apostate mother is under ground, we can do with her as we please. A sleeping potion administered, and she can be removed to the Secret Convent of the Sacred Ursula; and then herself-her property-is yours." 
               "Rather say it belongs to Holy Mother Church. In her name we act;" said his Eminence. "But how came this sudden death of the widow Montressor? Had thy hand ought to do with it?" 
               "It had!" said the priest unblushingly. "But without evil intention: I acted for the good of the Holy Church and the Sacred Order of Jesus! I ask for absolution." 
               "Absolve te!" muttered the priest, "in nomine PATER, et FILI et ESPIRITU SANCTO. The end justifieth the deed! Thou art a true and faithful son of the Church." 
               The priest crossed himself with a mock humility, knelt and kissed the hand of his superior, and then rising, said: 
               "What will I do with the girl, Eminence?" 
               "You say she is very beautiful." 
               "Yes, Eminence, few women are fairer than she. Perfect in form-in feature classical and intelligent, and as pure as the snow-drop blooming in the wintry atmosphere of March." 
                
               "Bring her here-bring her here! I will have her under my own eye." said the priest, his eye flashing as he spoke, perchance with the vision of beauties imagined before they were seen." 
                
               Reader, dropping without warning, the curtain upon the above scene, we will at once change it to THE DEATH-ROOM. 
               There is something soul-chilling and awful in a death-room-in a room where a soulless corpse lies stiff and stark before you. Something terrible in the stiffened eye-lids, laying like dark pencillings from the lids of the sealed eyes down on the marble-cold, white cheeks-the limbs stiff and rigid, as if frozen by the frosts of winter. I have seen such, and the blood grew chill in my veins as I gazed upon them. Yes, grew chill-my cheek blanched and my heart sighed, and I have wept as a child weeps when it has lost its mother. Yet, on the red battle-field I have seen warm friends totter and fall and die, while their souls rushed forth in gaping wounds-I have seen them fall close by my side, and maddened by the sight, have rushed on to avenge them. Yet, death there was not appalling-not terrible. It came in the noise and rush of excitement-it passed unheeded-was not soon forgotten, yet it was not so sodded in the memory, as the death which left the pale, frigid, unscarred, scarce altered form before me." 
               Ernest Cramer entered the death-room, where, extended upon sheets of snowy linen, lay the body of the widow Montressor. By her side was Irene-the beautiful Irene, not yet robed in black, but dressed in white-her fragile form bending with the weight of woe-her cheeks blanched with the rivers of tears that had passed over them. 
               "Why did you not send for me earlier? asked Cramer. 
               "But a few hours since she was well!" said the weeping daughter "Who could dream that she would die so soon?" 
               "Did she suffer much pain?" 
               "None-she died as if she were going in a sweet slumber, and when she called me it was only to say she felt very weak-that her hands and feet were growing as cold as ice!" replied Irene. 
               "There is a thin, white froth oozing out from her lips!" said Cramer, bending down and examining the corpse. "Irene, who have you in the house?" 
               "None but our three servants." 
               "What are they? Catholics?" 
               "One is-the other two are Protestants." 
               "Irene, your mother has been poisoned." Oh, be careful of yourself. At once, without delay discharge that Catholic servant-if there is proof that she gave your mother any food, I will have her arrested. The Church-the JESUITS-are at the bottom of this." 
               "Oh, my mother-my dear mother!" cried the weeping girl "For what could they have killed her?" 
               "For her money-for what is now your money!" said Ernest. 
               "Hush-hush!" said the girl, quickly. She saw the head of some one who had apparently been listening by the outer window, rise and instantly disappear. 
               "What shall I do-what shall I do! God help me!" sighed the poor girl. 
               "When the funeral is over, you must close this house and come and live under the protection of my wife!" said Cramer. "She will be as a sister to you, Irene. Will you come?" 
               "Yes-yes, and bless God, that in my hour of sorrow, He has given me such friends!" muttered the lovely girl, kissing in her fervent gratitude the hand which had clasped hers. 
               There is nothing so difficult in a novel which is founded on fact, and which abounds in scenes which are true and natural like its characters, and which contains many living characters, which are each playing a part at the same time, as to keep all of them before the reader. A fiction, if only imagined, can be so plotted as to have but one or two principal actors, and when one is up before you the others can be left at rest; but in a drama like this, of real life, are all too busy-too constantly busy to be lost sight of for a moment. 
               Cramer had just returned from a visit to the house of death, where he had left Irene Montressor weeping by the side of the mother whom God had taken but too early home to Heaven. He was relating to his wife, who listened all tearfully to the mournful tale, what he had witnessed, and also informing her of the invitation he had extended to the poor orphan girl. 
               "You will receive her as a sister, for my sake, will you not, my Serena?" he asked. 
               "Yes, and not only for your sake, dear Ernest, but for her own." 
               "Bless you, my sweet wife-I knew such would be your answer!" and the fond happy husband pressed a kiss upon his wife's fair brow. 
               A tap at the door, caused her to start and blush, as if marriage had not yet made kissing seem legal and right, though in my opinion it never comes much out of the way-that is, amongst "cousins" and "good friends." There is a deal of expression in a kiss, and sometimes a kiss raised a deal of commotion in camp-that is, calling the human heart the camp, and what is it but the head-quarters of feeling in one's body. But excuse my digressions, and I'll go back to the "mysterious knocking." The tap at the door was not a timid rap, such as some poor creditor gives when he comes to ask the pay for labor done, and some poor friend uses when all timidly he comes to borrow a V-but a bold, dun-like, official kind of a rat-tat-tat-as if it said, "Open the door there-I've business with you." 
               Ernest, however, did not pause to study who or what kind of a knocker stood at his threshold; he quietly stepped toward the door a pace or so, and then said, in his usual tone: 
               "Come in!" 
               The next moment the door opened, and Harry Hilton entered. Both advanced and grasped each other by the hand. 
               "All is over my dear Harry!" cried Cramer. I've been led to the altar of happiness, and permitted myself to be sacrificed for the good of my country, and to keep my heart from breaking." 
               "So I see, and so I heard a week ago, by special express from a certain widow-but I claim my kiss from the bride's lips," said the young soldier gaily, advancing toward Serena. 
               She gracefully, and with a smile of surpassing sweetness, extended her right hand to his, but raising her left, repelled gently the proffered salute, saying, in her melodious way-"It gives me joy to give you the hand of friendly welcome, Mr. Hilton, and to receive your congratulations, but my lips are not now my own-no kiss must press them except it comes from the lips of my husband." 
               "Hallo! Well, if this ain't a pretty reward for finding a husband for you!" said the soldier, rather taken aback by her refusal. "If I'd known this, I would have taken you myself, instead of letting him have you." 
               "If you could have got me!" replied the young wife, smiling. "Women cannot always be conquered like weak-walled cities, by daring soldiers." 
               "That's true-and when conquered, they cannot always be kept by the victor," said Hilton, as a flush that seemed to savor a little of anger and disappointment arose in his cheek, and darkened up to his temples. 
               "They can, if willing to remain in possession of the conqueror," said Serena, more gravely. "But come, Harry, such old friends as we mustn't quarrel. I would not refuse you a kiss, but I think that when a woman gives up her heart, soul and body to her husband, as I have to him I love, that she cannot be too circumspect. Like the smooth surface of a mirror, she stands exposed for all to gaze upon-and, like it, a single breath will leave a shade." 
               Cramer said not a word; but he looked upon the fond woman who uttered these words, and in his heart of hearts he worshipped her. 
               "You'll never have occasion to be jealous of your wife, if she acts this way, Ernest," said Hilton. 
               "I am not of a jealous disposition, Harry-but you said you had heard of my marriage, by special post, from the widow-what widow did you mean?" 
               "Who, of course, but Madame Montrose-though I've been gone but about ten days, I've received near half a dozen letters. Failing in her desperate attempt to get you, she seems determined to have me, nolens volens." 
               "When a widow makes a dead set at a man, and is determined to to have him, his position is indeed dangerous-she'll conquer or die. Hadn't you better give up the ship, haul down your colors and say Widder, I'm thine-persecute me no more!' Don't you think i would be the best policy?-she has broad acres, troops of darkies, and money enough to make the Astors place her on their visiting list." 
               "Ernest, do I hear you advocating a friend's marriage with the argument of wealth?" cried his young wife in a tone of surprise. 
               "No, dear love, no," he answered; "I was only in jest. I should think that the reply which I gave to your father, when after he had consented to our marriage he spoke of the property he intended to bestow on us, would assure you how little I care for sordid gold. I told him that I sought your hand and heart without a thought or wish for more-that I would rather take you as Adam took Eve to his side, than to take any other woman on earth with all the wealth of the Queen of Sheba." 
               "You did, dear husband-you did. I might have known you were in jest." 
               "I was, indeed-but Harry, have you seen little Lizzie yet?" 
               "Yes, Ernest, and I have never seen any one so changed in so brief a period. It is cruel for you to stay in this house." 
               Cruel? Why, Harry?" 
               "If your own judgment won't tell you why I've nothing to say," replied Hilton, then bowing rather coldly to both Cramer and Serena, he left the room. 
               "How strangely he acts," said the latter. 
               "Yes-I have never known him to talk and act so before," added Cramer. "I fear some of my kind friends have tried also to influence his mind against me. I must see him about that. Oh, my own Serena, mine is a hard life! to be forced ever, night and day, to be on my guard against a most insidious foe-a cunning, intriguing, unprincipled set, who are determined to use every means to ruin me. They will try to tear you from me-they are, I feel conscious, even now plotting to separate us, for that alone can crush me-it will break my heart." 
               "It can never be!" said the young wife, rising and casting her round white arms around about his neck, and kissing him fondly "True love never dies-and you selected the only word which will express the term of my devotion, for the ring I wear-our betrothal ring. It says 'forever,' and I am thine forever." 
                
               When Hilton left Cramer, he was passing down stairs towards the street door, and had set his military cap on his head, as if about to pass into the street. But when he reached the foot of the stairs, the young Italian girl, Desca del Onda, looking at him with a mournful look, handed him a note. It was unsealed-he opened and read it. 
               "Your mistress wants to see me!" said he, a moment after. 
               "Yes, noble cavalier." 
               "Is she in the parlor?" 
               "No, cavalier, she is not well-she is in her chamber-she bade me conduct you there," replied the young girl, a blush suffusing her olive-tinged cheek. 
               "Sick! What is the matter?" 
               "I know not, Signor, but she seems very melancholy. But one word to you, sir, now that I can speak to you alone. Oh, please put Mr. Cramer on his guard; there is a fearful plot working to ruin him. Bold, bad men wish to destroy him. I cannot, dare not say more; but they will try and ruin him. Oh, if I could tell him what they wished me to do-but I have sworn, I have sworn not to." 
               "He can take care of himself," said Hilton, coldly, turning toward the rooms of Madame Montrose, alias Gulietta, the Italian "cast off" of his Eminence. 
               "What!" murmured the girl in astonishment, as the soldier passed haughtily on; "are his friends false? God help him! God help him! Oh, that I had not sworn; but my father forced me to swear. I will not aid them-no, never!" 
               When Hilton entered the chamber of Madame Montrose, he saw a scene of beauty and voluptuousness which was well calculated to make every man that was human in passion, forget all things save that which was before him. The walls of the room had been hung with gorgeous paintings of the Italian and French schools; the two windows which opened in the rear were shaded by curtains of delicate pink stuff, which softened and made rosy the light which fell on all things within the apartment. The lady appeared to be sleeping when he entered. She reclined upon an ottoman of purple velvet, her head partly supported on one of her white, delicate hands, the other hand partly resting on a miniature, set in a golden case, which had dropped on the velvet by her side, but not concealing it entirely from view. Her dark eyes were closed, but the long lashes lay dewy and trembling down toward her pale cheeks, as if she had been weeping. Her hair lay in its dark glossy masses upon her lovely shoulders, and fell down, partially covering a swelling bosom, which a low-necked morning-gown of white muslin failed to conceal. Her attitude, and the lack of all but the simplest articles of dress, exposed the outlines of her tall, queenly figure, and from beneath the skirt of her short, snowy gown appeared her small feet, bare, and hued like the first leaf of the bursting rose, and ancles which a sculptor would sigh to copy. Her features were calm and placid; her lips slightly parted, showed two rows of pearl-like teeth; her voluptuous bosom rose and fell with her gentle breathings. Oh, how beautiful she looked! Had I the pen of a Byron, or a Moore, I might faithfully describe her; but, alas, I cannot. 
               Hilton gazed on this lovely picture, then, as if to avoid the enchantment, he raised his eyes to the walls. Alas! there, too, beauty and voluptuousness alone met his eye. His fine face grew rosy, as the flush of excited youth mantled his cheeks, and rose in rubient tide to his very temples. He stepped forward. The heavy Brussels carpet yielded no echo to his tread. Nearer and nearer to that form, so like a reclining statue of Venus, he came. A sigh came softly deep from her bosom, and the parted lips moved, as if in her dreams she murmured the name of some loved one. He paused-he feared to approach nearer, yet he feared to retreat-the chain of beauty was on him. His eye rested on the miniature-the features lay under a ray of rosy light-could it be? He stepped forward-glanced again-they were his own. He waited not to think that this was all an acted part-he paused not to consider that the sleep was feigned, or that her charms were thus exposed and enhanced by the beauties of art which surrounded her, to entrap him-without a thought he yielded to the fatal charm, and kneeling by the side of the ottoman, pressed a burning kiss on that lovely bosom, then another on her opening lips. 
               With a quick start, as if terror-stricken, she half arose, and a cry of alarm was half-uttered, as if she had been awakened from a deep slumber. But when she saw who it was, even as he, frightened at his own temerity, was rising from his knees, she threw her bare arms about his neck, and gluing her red, burning lips to his own, returned, with ten-fold fire and passion, the kiss he had given her. 
               "Oh is it thee-is it thee of whom I was dreaming, my own, my worshipped Henry!" she murmured-but she waited not for his reply, her kisses prevented his utterance. 
               No wonder that Hilton was dazzled, bewildered, half delirious. The low dress had half dropped from those faultless shoulders-the jetty hair had been dashed back from over that bosom which was fair as that to which Egypt's queen placed the Asp of the Nile-her lips were murmuring broken sentences of love-his were returning kiss for kiss-it was a dangerous moment 
               Suddenly the form of Desca del Onda appeared at the door-her voice was quick and alarmed- 
               "Lady!" she cried, "His Eminence is coming up-stairs." 
               "Keep him in the parlor: I'll be there in a moment, tell him I am dressing!" cried the lady. 
               "D-n his Eminence!" muttered Hilton-"who is he!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               "QUITE a pleasant party-I might say a dom'd pleasant party will we be when His Eminence comes in." 
               This remark was made by a tall, lank, sharp-featured, cross-eyed, thin-lipped, low-browed, white-haired individual, who was seated in close proximity to Judas Iscariot Arnold, in the sanctum of his Eminence. Manton the gambler was also in the room, and Dennis, the priest's confidential servant, also remained, as if loath to leave such questionable characters alone in a room where there was property which might tempt men to break the eighth commandment. 
               "Yes, Gordon-we may well say a select party, each of us at the head of our line-a very select party." 
               "Why the deil don't the mon come along-he tries ma patience!" said Gordon. 
               "There is his tread-I've heard his step too often in my own establishment, not to know it!" said the gambler. 
               "The deil!" muttered Gordon. "I'll make a note o'that-mayhap it 'ell come useful some o' these odd days!" 
               The door opened and his Eminence entered-his face flushed, either with excitement or with the fatigue of a hasty walk. 
               "Well, gentlemen, I am glad to see you!" said the priest hurriedly: "Dennis, bring in wine and glasses, and then leave us." 
               The servant obeyed. 
               "Where is Mr. Gnat?" asked his Eminence, turning to Arnold. 
               "We expect him every moment," replied the latter. "I sent him to have an interview with Cramer, that he might see what state of mind the man was in, and whether he could sufficiently excite his mind to induce him to perpetrate the libel we wish. There is a step now in the ante-room, probably he is coming." 
               A timid rap at the door was heard. The servant opened it, and admitted an individual whose small form, pale, peaked face, thin hair and little grey eyes which moved restlessly in their sockets would not impress a good physiognomist very favorably, at first sight. 
               "We were awaiting your coming, Mr. Gnat-what news?" said Arnold. 
               "I've seen him," replied the new comer, in a sharp, old-maidish tone. "I've seen him." 
               "Well," said his Eminence in an impatient tone, "what was the result of the interview?" 
               "He's offish, sir, very offish. He don't like to write anything against a woman, let the evil be ever so great." 
               "Did you do as I advised you-represent how in this matter he could reach the only vulnerable point of his bitter and powerful enemy, our friend Gordon here?"- 
               "Yes; but he says, much as he hates and detests Mr. Gordon, he does not wish to strike him through a third party, let that party be ever so culpable." 
               "The mon's a fule; honor should be dropped on all matters editorial, when one's enemy can be touched. Its my way, and the way of old Moses, and Mordecai, too!" said Gordon, taking a pinch of snuff, and passing his box to the company. 
               "Did you persuade him of the guilt of the party?" 
               "Yes; I told him that she was more common than the common street-walker; that your friend and his enemy, Mr. Manton, had been a recipient of her favors-that I myself had been also favored-that I could show him houses of ill-fame which she frequented, and he could there see her likeness, ready for common exhibition. You may depend upon it that I said all that could be said." 
               "Do you think he believed you?" 
               "He must. I carried letters of recommendation from some of the first men in the city-letters of introduction from some of his own personal friends. Besides, I protested my hate for Mr. Gordon so bitterly, and gave such good reasons for it, that he could not well doubt my sincerity." 
               "Did you hint that money could be made by the matter?" asked Manton 
                
               "Yes, but he frowned so darkly at the mere hint, that I found I was treading on dangerous ground, and stopped." 
               "Singular mon! Dom it, he cares no more for money than as if he had a fortune in his hands." 
               "Maybe he thinks he has one in his head," said Manton, with a smile which displayed his very white teeth. 
               "We'll take care of his head, ere long!" muttered his Eminence. 
               Then turning to Mr. Gordon, he continued: "You must do something for us, Mr. Gordon. You must renew your attacks upon him in your paper; get up some new and disgraceful charges, and then in the bitterness of his anger he may be induced to carry out our wishes, and publish the information which Mr. Gnat has given him." 
               "But, yer Reverence, what can I say against the mon? I've lied about him now till I've told everything that I could invent, and yet he takes it cool, and says my known character as a common liar and libeller, is his protection. We must get up something which has a semblance of truth, at least, or he'll only laugh at it." 
               "I've a plan," said Arnold, who had been sitting quietly in a study for several minutes. Manton, can't you get Kate Rapids to do almost anything?" 
               "Yes!" 
               "Well-she must attack him in the street; then Gordon must publish a highly-colored account of it, and so publicly disgrace him by it, as to force his temper from its equanimity. Then, at the proper moment, Gnat must again drop in, and my word for it, he'll publish the articles we want him to. An angry man is never prudent. The libel once published, we can get him arrested and put in prison by our friend the Justice at the Tombs, or if bailed, make his bail very heavy, and thus we can so work public feeling against him, that we can easily carry out our other aims." 
               "Splendid idea!" said Manton. 
               "Dom it, it'll work!" cried Gordon. 
               "Exquisite! it is a masterpiece," said Gnat. 
               His Eminence said nothing, but merely bowed his approval. 
               "There's now but one thing more to be attended to," said Arnold "and the object of our visit is accomplished. Mr. Gordon must have money." 
               "Aye, that's it now; that's it, 'money makes the mare go;' and money is a respectable convenience-what our friend Judge Weekly could, with unusual propriety call a necessary evil." 
               "How much is wanted?" asked Manton. 
               "I'll not take the job, and carry it all through, for less than a thousand," said the editor. 
               "Here is $500-his Eminence will doubtless share the expense, as he will the benefits of the matter," continued the gambler, handing out a bill. 
               "Certainly, you will receive my check for the amount during the day," replied the priest. "And now, gentlemen, a glass of wine with you, and then you must excuse me; I have business of importance this morning." 
               The glasses were filled. 
               "I drink to our success," said the priest. 
               "Success!" cried the rest, draining each glass. 
                
               A 
                     retrogade
                     retrograde
                   glance, if you please, reader. mmmmmmmmmmm 
               When the widow Montrose made her appearance before his Eminence, a moment after the scene which I described in the last chapter, her face still exhibited signs of the confusion and passion which was there described. 
               "You look charmingly, daughter-charmingly to-day!" said the priest, glancing at her form, around which she had hurriedly folded an additional dressing-wrapper. "May I ask how you have been engaged?" 
               "My dress, Eminence, will show that I was making my toilet," replied the woman. "I did not expect visitors at so early an hour." 
               His Eminence smiled, and pointed to the military cap of Hilton, which had been dropped near the door of the chamber. The face of the lady grew red with blushes-her bosom heaved with agitation. 
               "Eminence," she murmured, "Eminence, I did not-" 
               "No excuses, child! No excuses-I am neither angry or jealous of you-if you can only make him useful to our cause. You have news for me, doubtless?" 
               "None, Eminence, none-he has been absent on duty." 
               "This Cramer is very happy with his wife?" 
               "Yes, Eminence, he seems to be." 
               "You have not yet made her jealous?" 
               "Eminence, I have no opportunity. She will not make my acquaintance-I cannot force my attentions upon her." 
               "Have you gained any power and sway over Hilton?" 
               "Yes, Eminence, he loves me! I have won his heart. 
               "Then, Gulietta, you must use your influence to produce a quarrel between him and Cramer. I care not how bitter; if it ends in bloodshed, so much the better." 
               "In bloodshed, Eminence?" 
               "Yes-why do you turn pale? Are they not both heretics, whom it would be a good act to destroy?" 
               "But, Eminence, I will win Hilton within the fold of our Church. I know I can sway him." 
               "Well, then, so much the better that he quarrels with Cramer, for he will kill him for us when we need have it done. He can get the other to challenge him, or in some way aid us in our ends. Do as I bid you, and get up a quarrel between them. And do all you can to make his wife jealous. If possible, instil into the mind of Lizzie Laurel principles and feelings which will cause her with her beauty to continually tempt him. Encourage her to believe that she can yet win him. Make her believe that his wife only married him through mercenary and selfish motives, and that if she can win him for once from the path of duty, he will love her, and her only. You are the only one who can do this, Gulietta-do it, and any reward in my power shall be yours. You shall even in peace enjoy your new love-nay, if you can and will, shall marry him, and the wealth of the supposed widow Montrose shall be all that it is reported." 
               "I will try. Could I not use some drug on both of them to effect the object?" 
               "I care not what you use, or how you attain the object, so that you succeed. I must blast that man's character, and turn all that he has done into evil. We can only put a stop to the principles he has disseminated by so doing. And now, child, remember, you must do something. In your own foolish love, forget not that for which you are sworn to labor. Remember your oath-forget not the past in the present." 
               "Eminence, I will not. Believe me, I will be faithful." 
               "It is well. Now take yon cap to thy friend, and bid him be more careful next time. All eyes are not so lenient as mine." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               IT is not to be supposed, as we are busied in revealing the various plottings of the conspirators, that we can pause to tell of each incident that befell the various parties; or of each little occurrence tending toward one point, and having but one final aim, which darkened the pleasure-path of the newly married couple. 
               Scarce a day passed that some anonymous note did not reach Serena, implicating her husband's honor or faith; often a note was so directed as to appear to be for her, when in the inside it was directed to her husband, and was full of extravagant expressions of love. In some notes hints were given that his visits to the meetings of his Order, or the hours devoted to business, were but apparent excuses to cloak his conjugal infidelity. Still other letters purported to contain expressions which he had used in public meetings in regard to her native land-expressions of carelessness about her love, &c., &c. Every means which ingenuity could invent, was used in these letters to influence her mind against him whom she had sworn to love. For a time she showed all these letters to her husband-laughing at some, asking explanations in regard to others, till he became almost tired of replying. But at last, though she still read them, she saw that a continual recurrence of questions, &c., pained and annoyed him, and she refrained from troubling him. 
               The following scene occurred at a date about two-weeks later than the scene described in the last chapter. 
               Serena was seated beside her husband in his study. His face was pale, his brow clouded-his eyes bright with anger. He held a letter crushed in his clenched hand, and of it evidently he spoke. 
               "Is it possible, that for one instant, Serena, you can think this charge has a foundation?" 
               "Oh. Ernest, if I did think so, I would go mad-I cannot think so, yet see how the writer recounts particulars; and it is true, Ernest, as he says, that you did not come in until half past eleven o'clock last night." 
               "Yes, but dearest, I was at the meeting of our Order." 
               "What time did it close, Ernest?" 
               "A little after ten." 
               "That is just what the letter says, and then it accounts for an hour and a half, which you have not accounted for." 
               "Serena, do you ask of me to account for every minute of my time, as if you were my sovereign or a master over a laborer? If you wish it, I will tell you where I was?" said Cramer in an impatient tone. 
               The blood rushed up in the young wife's cheeks. She hesitated for a moment, then said- 
               "If it is not too much trouble, please tell me!" 
               "The trouble is a pleasure, madam!" said Cramer, coldly. "Upon the adjournment of the meeting, I was invited by a brother of the Order, Mr. Arnold, to go with him to Florence's to take a supper Remembering you, I wished to decline, but he insisted upon it, stating that he wished in the meanwhile to speak of matters of importance, and I yielded. Upon leaving him, I sprung into an omnibus and hurried home. Is this explanation satisfactory, madam?" 
               "I don't like that Arnold!" said the lady, not heeding Cramer's question. "He looks to me like a deep, designing knave!" 
               "His face, or rather the expression of his face, is not prepossessing," said Cramer-"yet we must not judge by appearances. His acts prove him to be a good man-he is very generous-gives away a great deal in charity, and is one of the most zealous patriotic native Americans that I ever knew. He is devoted to our cause." 
               "Your cause," said the wife, still speaking coldly-"is not a cause which I very much admire. I regret the day when you joined those Orders." 
               "And yet, Serena, you approved of my love for my country, before we were married. I made no concealment of my principles." 
               "No-but you did not say you hated England." 
                
               "Nor do I now say so. I only hate her government, which transports its paupers and convicts to our shores, to fill our prisons, our poor-houses, and to burden American tax-payers." 
               "She does not send all paupers; some wealthy men come here." 
               "True, but it is not for love of our institutions, or because they seek liberty. Think you that such as Belmont, as Prince, or King, come here because they love our land? No, it is because they can coin fortune upon fortune; and when they retire from the business cares of life, they will go and carry all their wealth with them to their native land. I almost wish with Jefferson, when I think of these things, that an ocean of fire rolled between this and the old world." 
               "Ernest, Ernest! How could you marry a foreigner, feeling thus speaking thus!" 
               "Because I loved her, dearest!" said the husband, kissing her brow, his tone and look melting from coldness down to affection. 
               "How could you love her?" said the wife, still cold in tone and look. 
               "Ask your own heart, dear Serena! Mesmeric influence-sympathy, fate, your beauty, or something of the kind. I know not, care not why, I only know I love you with a deep and wild devotion, which words, cold, senseless words, cannot describe." 
               "Ernest, dear Ernest, it were a sin to doubt you!" said the young wife-yet as from his eyes her glance fell on the crushed letter which he had dropped at his feet, her smile again vanished, and a sigh came from her lips. It was evident that the seeds of suspicion had been sown in her breast. How hard, alas! are they to eradicate. What a strange nature does woman possess-how varied her humors. He is indeed a gifted and learned man in woman-nature who understands all her phases of temper-her whims, her caprices. But with all these she possesses virtues, and graces, and gifts, which well entitle her to the title of God's last, best gift. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               IT was night. Irene Montressor had buried her mother. Supported by Ernest Cramer and his wife, she had followed the remains of her last relative to a shadowy tomb beneath the cedars of lonely Greenwood. She did not shed a tear during all the painful ceremony-not a sob shook her fragile but beautiful frame; not a shudder trembled through her form. Pale, silent, choked with that grief which words may not reveal, she passed through the trying ordeal. 
               After the last words were said, and the marble slab was laid upon the tomb, Ernest proposed that she should return with his wife to the house where they boarded. 
               "I will come on the morrow," she murmured: "I must go home to-night." 
               "Shall I not go and pass the night with you?" asked Serena. 
               "No, no, kind lady; leave me to myself and my sorrow to-night: on the morrow I will discharge my servants, close the house, and go to live with you." 
               Delicacy forbade Mrs. Cramer or her husband from pressing the matter and the now completely orphaned girl was left to her solitary grief. 
               It was night, as was said above; and clad in her deep mourning, Irene Montressor sat alone in the room, and for the first time since her mother's death wept-wept bitterly. The two Protestant servants of her late mother were by her side, endeavoring to console and comfort her, but the Catholic servant was not there. 
               A low rap at the door announced a visitor. 
               "Go and see who is there, Harriet!" said Irene. 
               The woman obeyed-but started back with a scream of terror, as a man robed in black, from head to foot, and whose face was hidden with a mask of crape, entered. He was followed by six more men dressed like himself. 
               "What want ye here in the house of mourning?" cried Irene, rising, not terrified and screaming like her servant, but dignified even in her alarm. "If ye are robbers, ye have chosen an ill time and a poor place for this outrage." 
               "Seize those women and gag them before their shrieks alarm and rouse the neighborhood!" said the leader to his attendants. 
               It was done with the same quickness that his words were uttered. 
               Then turning to Irene, the same man in a calm, deep tone, said: 
               "Daughter, we come in the name of the Holy Mother Church to bear thee to a safe asylum." 
               "The Church has no power over me!" cried the girl. "I have renounced its doctrines." 
               "Beware-beware; we are the servants of the Inquisition!" cried the same voice. "The punishment for apostacy is death by torture, and a confiscation of property." 
               "Begone-begone, or I will arouse the neighborhood. Help! help!" screamed the poor girl. But in an instant her cries were stifled by a muffled cloak being cast around her head-she was seized and bound, and the party of masked men bore her and the two servants from the room-no one having spoken except the leader. At the door, as she was carried forth, Irene saw her Catholic servant standing with a lighted candle in her hand, and then she knew herself completely betrayed 
               It was an hour later. Irene Montressor was standing alone in the same apartment in the house of his "Eminence" that I described in a former chapter, as being occupied by Arnold on the night when he smiled so frequently with his Eminence. Her attitude was that of wretchedness and despair. Her hands, which were pressed upon her aching brow, were nervously twitching-her eyes, as she looked vainly around for one sign of hope, one point of egress from the den of crime and infamy, were distended and brilliant with the light of terror. Her garments of deep black contrasted with her death-like pallor, and they were torn and disordered. Her beautiful hair hung in disordered tresses down upon her bared and lovely shoulders. 
               "Oh, God!" she murmured, "hast thou deserted the orphan?" 
               She looked with shuddering horror on the voluptuous paintings and statues around the room-things too indicative of the nature of its occupant-too indicative of a fate reserved for her, which she dreaded more, far more than death. She had tried the only door-it was locked. She could not open a window, they were barred and secured; and from the dead silence around her, she knew she was too far removed from the street to be heard by any passer-by, if she shrieked for help. 
               Again she murmured-"Oh God of Heaven protect me!" 
               She heard a step at the door-the key was turned, and one whom she had never seen before entered. It was "his Eminence." His countenance was cold and stern, and after entering he removed the key from the outside of the door, locked it, and placed the key in his pocket. He then turned, and without moving, folded his arms and fixed his dark eyes upon her. Her eyes, first raised in fear and expectation, dropped beneath his gaze; and the color which had left her cheeks rushed in a crimson volume to her face, spreading up to her very temples. For full five minutes thus they stood. Then his Eminence spoke. 
               "You are very beautiful, daughter," said he. 
               She replied not, but a tremor passed through her frame-her breath seemed to be leaving her-she looked as if about to sink powerless, senseless to the floor. 
               "Yes, very beautiful!" he repeated. "Hast thou ever loved?" 
               "Oh, sir," she cried, in a tone so sweetly imploring that it should have melted the heart of a fiend,-"Oh, sir, if you are, as your garb indicates, a minister of God, I pray you to release me-let me go home. I have never harmed any one-why should I be thus treated?" 
               "Thus treated, child! Is it treating thee badly to take thee from the dangers of the sinful world, and bring thee under our own protection? Here shalt thou live like a queen-here command every luxury-here safely enjoy pleasures unseen by the world, which a cold and censorious world uncharitably condemn. See what luxury here surrounds you-see that art and wealth have been united to make this chamber a fitting home for beauty like thine. Say, child, wilt thou not be my own one? Here thou shalt be queen-this shall be thy world-I thy only subject. Say, fair child, shall not this be?" 
               As he spoke, he advanced toward her. 
               Then, and not till then, did Irene become herself. With stern dignity, her frown seemed to swell in height and volume-her eyes flashed with indignation, and raising her hand she waved him back. 
               "Stand off, hypocrite; stand back!" she cried. 
               "By all the saints, thou art queenly!" he cried; "thou shalt be mine, either willingly or unwillingly!" 
               "Never! I am not helpless!" she cried. "Lay but one hand upon my person, and thou shalt see what a true woman can do to preserve her honor." 
               With a sneering laugh, the priest advanced. Irene moved not, but her white hand plucked a gleaming dagger from its hiding-place in her bosom; and raising it high above her head, stood like an Amazon in anger, ready to plunge it into his breast or her own. 
               The priest hesitated, then stopped in his advance, his face purpled with combined anger and passion. 
               "Fools, cursed fools were they, not to search thee and take away such dangerous playthings!" he cried. 
               Then in a tone of more gentleness, he said: 
               "This is folly, child. I mean thee no harm. Put up thy weapon, and sit down and talk to me." 
               "Never, until you have left this room. Release me from this place, and I will go forth and never utter one word to expose this cruel wrong. But at your peril will you confine me here. Beware of a desperate woman!" 
               The priest smiled. "This will not do; force is useless here," he muttered in an under tone. "Cunning, alone, can conquer her; drugs must be used, else she might do damage with her dagger." 
               Then raising his voice, he said: "I will leave thee, daughter. I did this only to try thy virtue. I would not for the world do thee an injury. Thou shalt now be removed to an apartment more suitable to thy refined and delicate taste; and there, in quiet and happy seclusion, with books and music, and birds and flowers to amuse thee, thou shalt enjoy life, free from interruption or care." 
               "Why not let me go to my home, if you are my friend?" she asked. 
               "You have no home, daughter. Left an orphan in this bad world, it becomes the duty of 'Holy Mother Church' to take thee under her protecting shadow, to preserve for good purposes, and thy own comfort, the fortune thy mother left thee, lest some heretic should take thee and it, and use both to the perversion of religion and our power." 
               "Then I am to consider myself a prisoner?" 
               "To a certain extent, yes;" replied the priest. "But when we find you willing to abide by our rules, and to act as do the rest of our household, then thou shalt be free, and happy, too, as a bird which all the livelong day flies about among the trees and flowers, and at night returns with its mate to its nest. I will leave thee, child, and a trusty female of our Order, a sister, will conduct thee to other and more pleasant apartments. Thy own wardrobe will be brought to thee, and thou wilt soon cease to regret the world and its cold vanities." 
               The priest now left the room, but as he crossed its threshold he murmured, "She shall be mine-she shall be mine!" 
               Immediately after he left the room, poor Irene, who had borne up well till then, burst into tears, and sank back upon an ottoman, helpless as an infant. The dagger dropped from her nerveless hand-her bosom heaved with sobs-she was again the weak, despairing, wretched girl. 
               A few moments only elapsed, when a woman-a good-looking woman of thirty-five or forty years of age, entered the room. She was of a voluptuous, sensual cast of figure, and her face tallied well with her form. She stepped lightly across the room, and picked up the dagger that lay upon the carpet. This she placed beneath the pillow of her couch, and then she returned to the side of Irene, who as yet had not observed her. 
                
               "Do not weep, dear child!" said she in a kindly tone. 'Do not weep-behold in me a sister and a friend." 
               Irene raised her head, saw that one of her own sex was before her, and casting her arms around her, exclaimed- 
               "Oh save me-save me from worse than death! Aid me in leaving this terrible place!" 
               "I fear his Eminence, but I will be thy friend, poor girl!" said the woman. 
               "Oh, God bless you for those words!" cried Irene, kissing the red sensual lips of the woman as fondly as if she had been a mother, instead of being what she was, a tool of the Jesuit General. 
               They left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               IT was a later hour on the same day. His Eminence was seated in the private parlor of Mrs. Laurel. That lady was seated by his side, her hand held in his, but on her face was an expression of horror, indicating that he had said something which pained or terrified her, as was also indicated by this expression from her lips. 
               "What! Oh, Eminence, did I hear that from you? Sell the virtue of my own child-give her to the arms of a married man, who could never repair the injury done?" 
               "All things done for the good of the Church, are right!" said the expositor of true Jesuit doctrines. 
               "But spare, oh Eminence, spare my child. It would kill me to see her dishonored-to know that she had become the leman of a heretic!" 
               "She shall be his wife," said the priest. "Through this very act on her part, I will cause his divorce-that is, if she can make him fall. Even if she cannot, he shall lose the woman he now dotes upon, for I will make her hate him!" 
               "Eminence, I dare not disobey you," she murmured. 
               "Then send thy child here-I will give her instructions how to act-for conquer she must!" said the priest. 
               Mrs. Laurel arose, and retired to obey the order. 
               His Eminence smiled after Mrs. Laurel left the room-not in a "white-coat-ative" sense, but with a sneering, fiendish chuckle, as if triumphing over the approaching success of his object. 
               "It will work!" he muttered. "It will work. We will crush this serpent, Cramer, and then destroy the eggs he has laid, ere they are hatched to bring forth millions of opposers to the progress of our Society. We will crush him, and send him with a blackened name and blighted fame, down-down to hell-if there be a hell!" 
                
               Why that pause, and why that "if" in the exclamation of his Eminence? Could it be possible that he doubted in both a hell and a heaven? Could it be that he, who through terror of that hell and hopes of that heaven, or rather through threats of the pains of the one, and promises of the joys of the other, holds thousands of fanatical, bigoted beings at his beck, ready in all things to do his Bidding, was himself an INFIDEL? Yes, and to the fullest extent. What cares he for religion, only to use it as a means of advancing his sect, or gaining power and wealth, merely that both might minister to his pleasures, and advance his position. Oh, Americans, wake up to the danger of fostering and harboring these insidious, infamous Jesuits here in our Republican land. They have been driven from all other climes for their interference with their governments-they are now at work with ours; beware, or soon it will be too late! Too late? Yes-if things progress for ten years-if Jesuit progress gains ground as rapidly for ten succeeding years as it has for the past six months-a PAPAL EMPIRE will have arisen on the ruins of this Republic. Its ashes, smoking with the blood of martyred millions, will be all that will be left of American liberty. Wake up-wake up, ere the spirit of Washington curses you for your supineness. I write where HE once stood-I write this near that spot where HIS sacred remains repose; and I feel, oh I feel as if the spirit of prophecy was on me-as if a power from above bade me write, and warn and implore my fellow countrymen to awake ere it is too late! 
               His Eminence, after muttering the sentence above recorded, paced to and fro for several minutes, ever and anon casting an impatient glance at the door, as if expectant of the entrance of Lizzie. 
               Full ten minutes passed, and she came not. 
               "God's malison on the girl! why comes she not?" muttered the priest. 
               The door opened, and she entered. She looked beautiful, robed in an evening undress of white muslin. Her fragile form seemed graceful in the extreme, draped as it was in the scanty garb she wore. But her eyes looked heavy and swollen. She had evidently been weeping. 
                
               "Child," said his Eminence, as she came forward, "what is the matter? Why hast thou been so long delaying our command for thy appearance?" 
               "Holy Father," she murmured, "forgive me. My mother has been talking with me." 
               "And thou hast been weeping, child. Why hast thou wept?" 
               "Forgive me, Father, but ask me not." 
               "Child, thou listenest to God's anointed. Conceal nothing from me-reveal all." 
               "Father-Holy Father, forgive me, I cannot." 
               "Child!" cried the priest, in a tone which made her tremble from head to foot, "behold in me the head of the Catholic Church in America. Dare not, for your soul's salvation, to refuse me aught I ask, be it your inmost secrets. your silent thoughts, or even that which the innocent most prize." 
               A deep and burning blush suffused the cheek of the poor girl, yet she made no reply. Her form quivered in every limb. His Eminence marked the effect of his words, smiled, then kindly said: 
               "Sit down, sweet Lizzie, I have that to say to thee, which will make thee happy." 
               "Happy?" sighed the fair girl, as she sat down. 
               "Yes, happy," continued the priest. "Lizzie, you love Ernest Cramer." 
               "Indeed-indeed I do!" cried the girl. "Yet it is hopeless, it is madness-he is married." 
               "Poh, child, he can easily be unmarried. He does not love her to whom he is wedded." 
               "Oh, sir, you wrong him. He is too pure, too true-hearted to wed one whom he did not love-too honorable to wrong one whom he did not mean to wed." 
               "True, fair child; but could not he, like others, mistake his own mind and his own feelings?" 
               "Oh, not with me, sir! He knows I love him." 
               "Yes, child, he does; and now, too late, he knows that she to whom he is wedded does not love him." 
                
               "Not love him? How can she help it? He is ever kind and gentle, brave and manly toward all our sex." 
               "She is a foreigner. His Native American principles disagree with her national prejudices, and her foreign relatives are each hour trying to poison her mind against him, and draw her away." 
               "Will they succeed? Will she desert him and leave him alone?" 
               "I hope so," said the priest. 
               "Hope so, Father?" cried the astonished girl. "Are you too his enemy?" 
               "No, child, I am his best, his truest friend. I wish to save his soul-to bring him within the pale of mother Church, and to make him happy. There is but one way to do this-thou must do it, and thy reward shall be his love and his hand." 
               "His love-his hand?" murmured the girl. "Oh, that were impossible. He pities me. One cannot love that which he pities." 
               "You err, child. Love is begotten of many causes. It often arises from pity, or from a sympathy, which when rightly understood, amounts to pity. When the Indian Princess Pocahontas fell in love with Smith, it was when she saw the white warrior about to be executed. Love is often made more fervent, or from a mere spark fanned into flame, by a knowledge that one is loved, and a grateful return is natural." 
               "And you think I can yet win his love-his hand?" 
               "Yes, child." 
               "No, no, it cannot be. He is already married." 
               "But his bonds can easily be broken. He was not married according to the rules of our Church. A divorce can easily be brought about." 
               "That would render them unhappy," said the fair young girl-"I would not wish that." 
               "Poh! they are already unhappy, I tell thee. She loves him not-he knows it, and is already wretched." 
               "Oh, that I could comfort him!" 
               "You can, child, you must. For you it has been reserved to do a good and holy work, which in the end will conduce to your happiness ness. Through you, a divorce must be produced between him and his wife-through this and his consequent troubles, he will be brought into the pale of holy mother Church, and then his hand and his grateful love shall be your reward." 
               "Tell me, Father," cried the girl eagerly-"tell me, Father, how can this be done?" 
               "You must forget your maiden modesty-you must cast yourself in his way, and by your conduct induce him to make you his mistress." 
               A burning blush in an instant suffused the beautiful girl's face; then the red blood, retreating back to her astonished heart, left her cheeks pale as Parian marble. She looked as if she would reply, but she could not speak. With her whole form quivering as with fear or horror, she turned to leave the room. 
               "Stay, child!" said the priest, sternly. "Stay, I command thee, and hear all! The end justifieth the deed-in this matter the Church will justify and absolve thee, and his marriage to thee will take away all stain before men.' 
               "Father," at last she said-"Father, you do not know Ernest Cramer. He never would wrong a poor girl like me-he is too honorable to do such a deed-I know he is." 
               "Poh, child! you know but little of human nature. Honor is behind where passion stands before it. He can be conquered and-" 
               'Then, Father, if he can be conquered, which I doubt, I cannot! I love him dearly, truly-but I could not become that which you wish me to." 
               "Not even to win him as your lawful husband?" 
               "No, Father." 
               "Then," said the priest, in an assumed tone of carelessness, "I will find another who is as beautiful, and less scrupulous, who will carry out the will of the Church. I know another who will succeed as well." 
               "Another? Oh, my God! he must not love another," murmured the girl. "Oh, Father, cannot I win him without disgrace?" 
               "Child, disgrace is not disgrace if incurred in the path of duty Besides, ere the disgrace, as you term it, is widely known, his marriage to thee will wipe it away forever." 
               "But, Father, I know his honor. He will never be dishonorable." 
               "Even then, all is not lost. His wife can/be made jealous-you can, when called upon in open court, swear that he has seduced you, even if he has not." 
               "What, Father, commit perjury?" 
               "Aye, child-it is not wrong if done for the good of the Church." 
               "But then he would hate and despise me forever." 
               "No, he would love you the more, when he learned that you had done so to relieve him from his bond to his cold and cruel wife-that your love alone had prompted you." 
               "Is his wife cold and cruel? She seems fond and loving." 
               "Child, do you doubt me? I have reasons for all I say. I know that she has quarrelled with him, and used bitter words this very day." 
               The sophistry and the declarations of the priest had the desired effect. The girl remained silent for a little while, then said: 
               "Father, I resign myself to thy guidance. It is a fearful risk-yet I would die to win his love." 
               "You shall live, and live for happiness, child," said the priest, with a pleasant smile. "One so lovely as thou art, was formed for happiness. Thou art truly beautiful!" 
               The priest's dark eyes gleamed with a more intense brilliancy as he uttered these words; and as she stood close before him, he reached suddenly forward, and before she could divine his intention, caught her in his arms and pressed a burning, sensual kiss on her pure lips. 
               A scream of terror burst from the poor girl-but the next instant a manly arm was around her waist, and she found herself freed from the grasp of the priest, who lay upon the floor, struck down by the hand of Ernest Cramer. 
               "Oh, thank God it is you-it is you!" murmured the poor girl, and fainted. 
               The priest, only struck down, and not senseless from the blow, sprang to his feet, livid with rage, drawing a gleaming dagger from beneath his vesture as he rose, and looking as if about to spring upon his foe. While with his left arm Cramer placed the girls form behind him, so as to save her from danger, he coolly drew a revolver from his pocket, and presenting it, cried: "Advance one step, most holy, reverend and pure Father, and a kick from this colt shall reward your temerity. I know your 'Eminence,' and this dastardly deed shall not go unrewarded. This is your religion! Out upon you for a false hound!" 
               The priest ground his teeth in impotent rage. His basilisk eye glittered with the fire of hate, and yet he dared not attack his foe. That clear, calm, blue eye was fixed upon him-that hand which poised the deadly barrel did not quiver-the finger which rested lightly on the trigger was as nerveless as if it were made of marble. A smile-a cold, triumphant smile, rested on Cramer's features. 
               His Eminence trembled. He felt that he was in the presence of his master. 
               At this moment Mrs. Laurel entered. She screamed as she saw the position of the parties. 
               "Oh, do not harm his Eminence!" she cried. "Do not slay him-it would be a mortal sin." 
               "Is it not a mortal sin for him to insult your child? Take care of her!" said Cramer, bitterly 
               The woman took Lizzie in her arms, and was about to leave the room, when his Eminence spoke. 
               "I meant the child no harm," he said. "I did but rifle a kiss from her fair lips, when this young-" 
               "Beware, sir, call me no names, or I'll choke the words in your throat!" 
               "When this young gentleman," continued the priest, "interrupted me with a blow which felled me to the floor. But," he added with assumed meekness, "I forgive him, it is a Christian's duty to do so." 
               "And a priest's duty to kiss all the pretty girls in his parish, eh?" said Cramer, with a sneer. 
               "Oh, Mr. Cramer, please do not offend his Eminence. Please leave us. I know he did not mean any harm." 
               "Madam, I mean no disrespect to you-am not in the habit of ever using such language as this in any company, but I can't help saying d-n his Eminence! And now, sir, this word to you! I shall leave you to settle this affair with Mrs. Laurel-but beware, if by word, thought, or deed, you injure that young girl, I'll cut off both your ears and nail them to your own altar!" 
               Turning on his heel, and exchanging a look with Lizzie, who now had regained her feet, he left the room, followed by her. 
               "The devil!" muttered his Eminence, when only he and Mrs. Laurel remained in the room. "I only kissed the child-should have done nothing more, and that infernal heretic must rush in and fell me like an ox. He is a hard-handed wretch-my temple rings like a cracked bell yet." 
               "And to think that your Eminence should be struck in my house!" murmured Mrs. Laurel. "I will instantly bid him seek board elsewhere!" 
               "No-not for the world, daughter!" cried the priest. "That would lessen my opportunities for revenge. No, he must remain here. In truth, upon a second thought, this will even further our object. Lizzie will now love him better than ever. But they must not confer, or she may tell him all I have said to her. Hurry and interrupt their conference, and getting her alone, enjoin upon her eternal secrecy, as she values her soul's salvation. Then return to me-I have further directions for you." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               ERNEST CRAMER was seated in his chair by his writing table, ga zing with a mingled air of pain and surprise at his young wife, who with an evidently angry countenance, was pacing rapidly to and fro in the room. In her hand she held several letters, and her voice was bitter in its expression. 
               "All these reports and all these letters cannot be without some foundation, sir!" she cried. 
               "On my soul, Serena, if you harbor one suspicion of my truth you wrong me! I never am absent an hour from your side that I do not account for the cause of my absence, and tell you where I have gone to!" 
               "Oh yes, of course-it is just as this letter, signed 'S. A.,' says; you say you go to a meeting of your Order. There is but one thing, Ernest, that will satisfy me-one thing will make me happy!" 
               "What is it, Serena? All that an honorable man and a fond, true husband can do to make a wife happy, that will I do for you." 
               "Then leave those American Orders. You ought never to have joined them, when you must have known that I, as an English woman, could not endure them. Leave them, and we will never again have an unpleasant word." 
               "Serena!" said Cramer, slowly and sadly-"Serena, you ask that which I cannot do. Had I ten thousand lives, I would lay them down in the cause which I have espoused-I never can, never will desert it. Anything else you wish me to do, I will do, but I never will be unfaithful to my pledges as an American!" 
               "Then, Ernest, I fear the day is not far distant when we shall separate!" 
               "Separate?" cried the astonished husband. "Oh my God, is this you, Serena! You know not how madly, how deeply, how devotedly I love you. To lose you would kill me! I could not live without you!" 
               "And yet you refuse me a simple request." 
               "You demand that which would be a sacrifice of my honor. Ask my life, rather than that." 
               "Well, as you please. I will answer this letter which asks an interview." 
               "You will, Serena? Will you hold intercourse with one who acknowledges herself to be a lost and fallen woman?" 
               "Yes, I will be satisfied!" 
               "Do so, then, dear Serena. Conscious of right, I fear nothing. But I feel that a deep-laid conspiracy is working to destroy our happiness; oh, for the sake of our yet unborn babe, let me implore you not to be hasty. Serena, I love you, will love you truly forever! Even should you desert me, my love shall follow you; should you hate and spurn me from your side, I would die praying God to bless you-your name the last on my lips." 
               "Bless you, Ernest, bless you for such love!" cried the young wife, as a tear started from her eye. "This is our first quarrel-it shall be the last. I was wrong to let these foolish and scandalous reports make me angry. Forgive me!" 
               A long, fond, passionate kiss was the only reply Ernest gave, as he pressed her fondly to his breast. Reader, we're intruding on domestic privacy; let's put on our hats and travel into another chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               ONCE more in the gorgeous chamber of his Eminence-the chamber once inhabited for a night by Judas Iscariot Arnold-lately the scene of Irene Montressor's resistance to the intended wrong of the hypocritical Jesuit-that room so voluptuous in furniture and in its ornaments. The fountain on its farther side was bubbling forth its cooling music, the rosy light of early day was stealing in through the scarlet window-curtains-everything seemed as before. But look! On yonder couch behold a picture. The form of a young and lovely girl is covered by the disarranged, but snow-white counterpane. Her face is pale, pale as Parian marble, and her hair streams in dishevelled locks over it, and down upon her uncovered neck and bosom. What is that mark upon her shoulders-see the red spots where the blood has started from beneath the pearl-white skin. It looks as if the teeth of some insatiate beast had there been fixed-and so they had. She sleeps, and yet her sleep is not the sleep of nature. Better for that poor girl that it were the sleep of death. There is something fearful in contemplating her appearance as she lay there-something that tells us wrong, terrible wrong has been done here. 
               Who is she? Reader, scarcely need I tell you that Irene Montressor is before you-Irene, the orphan; and that she is the victim of the "Holy Order of Jesus;" that his "Eminence" has fulfilled his threat; and that she is laying there, a drugged and helpless being, unconscious as yet of her own shame, of her own wretchedness. See her as she moves her arms convulsively and uneasily-see her lips move-hear what she says: "Mother! mother!" 
               Alas! no mother, no father, no brother has she; and had she them it is too late-they might revenge, but could not save her. 
               And yet she is beautiful. Her disordered dress expose charms which we may not pause to gaze upon; her features, pale as they are, still are exquisitely handsome. She looks like a statue, fresh from a master hand, expressing that which poesy and the artist's skill alone could tell. 
               But a change is coming. See, his Eminence enters the door; he has just taken a bath, and coming from the skillful hands of his valet, looks as fresh and pleasant as if he had never known debauchery or crime. He advances to the side of the couch. Hear that "Father of the Church," see his sensual countenance flush up with the base tide of mere earthly passion. 
               "By Heaven! she is beautiful!" he mutters. "I must kiss that beautiful bosom. Ah, there is blood upon her neck. In my wild delirium, I must have left that cruel mark there. But it matters not; I have been blest, and she-oh, how beautiful she is!" 
               As he uttered these words, the sacrilegious wretch bowed his burning lips and kissed her fair bosom. 
               "Ah! she shudders. She will soon awake. It is time the drug had lost its influence." 
               Saying this, the priest took some water from a vase standing near the couch, and gently bathed her brow. 
               Her eyes slowly opened; at first they closed again, and a convulsive tremor passed through her frame; then again they opened, wider and wider, as they were fixed upon him, until they glared fearfully, wildly upon him. Glancing from him, around that too-well remembered room, then at the couch whereon with dishevelled garments she lay, that wretched girl seemed in one instant to comprehend all. 
               "Lost, lost, LOST!" she shrieked. "Oh GOD! THOU hast deserted me!" 
               "Be calm, daughter," said the priest. "Calm thyself, and all will be well." 
               "Monster! Oh, in mercy kill me! I will not live on earth a polluted, lost and degraded thing." 
               The priest smiled, that same cold, sneering, fiendish smile, which I have before described. 
               "Daughter, talk not of death. We will both live for happiness yet;" and he bent forward to again kiss her snowy bosom. 
                
               Starting back, she half arose in the couch, and as she did so, a cry of joy arose from her lips. What could it mean? Has the reader forgotten the dagger which the servant, picking up from the floor, had carelessly concealed beneath the pillows of that couch? Upon this, all unknowing of its vicinity, had the ruined girl placed her hand With the heart of a Roman virgin beating in her desecrated bosom, she hailed this friend with joy; and, while yet the priest wondered at her cry of joy, she dashed the bright blade to the very hilt in her bosom. 
               In vain did he try to arrest the blow; and as he with trembling hand drew forth the fatal weapon, the red blood sprang, as if from a fountain, up into his face. 
               He groaned, and fell back fainting upon the floor. Minutes passed, but she could not count them. She had gasped only the word "mother!" and had died. 
               The priest arose, looked upon his garments stained with her pure blood, and not without a shudder, hurried to the fountain to wash the stains from his face. He returned to the side of the couch, and there more calmly gazed upon the victim of his insatiate passion. He spoke. Were his words syllables of regret? No; with his fiendish heart, he only said: "It is well: her fortune is now ours-a false will and document stating that she has retired to an European convent for life, will settle all legally, and she and her fortune are both taken care of. But she is beautiful! I did not intend she should die so soon." 
               Ringing the bell, his Eminence paced to and fro until it was answered. His confidential servant replied to the summons. 
               "Dennis," said the priest, "yonder foolish girl has killed herself. Take her body to the cellar-vault, as usual, put plenty of quick-lime, and let her pass into dust!" 
               The servant merely bowed his reply, taking the matter as cool as his master-a fact that would argue that such scenes were not very uncommon in that house. 
               Thus died poor IRENE MONTRESSOR. Thus did the "Society" rid itself of the only two incumbrances upon an estate which it coveted. Behold the effect of Jesuit power! behold its utter lack of principle, and dread its influence and its power! It has but one aim, and that is to enslave the world-to build up an empire on the ashes of this Republic. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV 
               "WELL, we've got him-we've got him, now!" 
               This expression was made use of by Judas Iscariot Arnold, as he entered the sanctum of his Eminence, a short time after the occurrence last related. 
               "How, what mean you, my good friend?" 
               "He has been arrested for libel." 
               "Who, Cramer?" 
               "Yes; and the whole morning papers are teeming with articles condemning him. He will stand no chance, for he cannot prove the truth of what we have caused him to utter. This is but the first step. The next move to get him degraded before community, will be to get a common woman of the town to attack and strike him in the street. Then I am taking rapid measures to get up a work, purporting to be his life and adventures, in which he will be charged with every crime; and through all this, we will so create public sentiment, that his trial can only result in one way, and that way will be in his condemnation!" 
               "But this book, will it not carry its own condemnation? In our last interview, you told me that there was no court record against him-that, although in his life of adventures two men have fallen by his hand, he has in both cases acted only in self-defence, after forbearing as long as human nature could endure attack; that you could find no record of crime against him." 
               "Yes, I so told your Eminence, and so it is. But your Eminence is aware how ready the world is to hear ill of any one-how much sooner it will receive evil report than good. It is but necessary to publish these things, and six out of every ten, aye, eight out of ten of those who do not know him, will believe them to be as true as holy writ. Believing this, they will influence the others, and soon our enemy will stand helpless and friendless, and we will conquer. We will heap back the injuries he has done us, with tenfold weight upon his head, and teach him how dangerous it is to attack the wealthy, even if they are criminal; how foolish it is for a lone man to cross the path of an Order so powerful as yours." 
               "What a mind-or, if I may say so, what a genius for plotting villany!" said his Eminence, as he listened with admiration to the cool exposure of Arnold's plans. "Is the man in prison?" 
               "No, he gave bail at once." 
               "Why did they not put his bail so high that nobody would bail him? They should have locked him up." 
               "They could not. The magistrate more than doubled the usual bail, as it was, asking $2,000, which was given at once." 
               "When will his trial come on?" 
               "Very soon. We must hurry up matters, for if the people get time to think, and he has a chance to contradict these reports, a re-action may take place, and our labor will not only be all lost, but he will stand higher than before in community." 
               "Well, well; we will leave all to you. Do you need more money?" 
               "No; Manton and his associates are so rejoiced at the success of our scheme, that they advanced me three thousand dollars this morning, towards carrying it through. That will suffice, at least for the present. I only regret one thing." 
               "And that?" 
               "Is that at the worst, the penalty for a libel is only a year's imprisonment in the county penitentiary, and a fine. If we could only get him up to the States Prison for a few years, we would then destroy his political rights, and be sure to crush him. He might live through a year in the county prison-the States prison would kill him." 
               "You are right. You must strive to get some heavier crime fixed upon him if you can. Remember oaths can be bought,-almost anything can be done with money." 
               "I know it. I will think of some plan. By-the-way, is it not possible to bring the new seduction law to bear upon him?-that would have the double effect of destroying his domestic happiness, and of sending him up. 
               "You have touched upon a point where I have already commenced operations. Yet it is a risky thing. I can find fifty girls whom I could get to swear as I directed; but then woman's nature is fickle, they might betray us-and, moreover, it would be impossible to get a pure girl to swear to a falsehood-therefore, I fear there is danger in this. Still, leave that to me, I will try it, while you try another course." 
               "It is agreed, Eminence; and now if you'll order in a bottle of that old sherry, I will drink your health. I feel dry-I have been very busy this morning." 
               Reader, they may "smile," we'll travel. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV 
               IN the back room of a groggery, in Park Row, two persons were seated. On a coarse table, covered with a stained and tattered oilcloth, which looked as if it had seen hard service, stood a pitcher of hot punch, from which the twain occasionally replenished their glasses. One of these men was a tall, broad-shouldered, muscular man, with rather coarse, well yet regulated features-a bright sharp eye, and a voice, even low as he spoke, sounded like the deep rolling of distant thunder. His dress was flashy-his appearance showy but not genteel. He displayed a profusion of rich jewelry, and his garments, though very rich, were ill-fitted. His age was probably forty. 
               His companion was younger and much slimmer-in fact more genteel in his appearance, though he had every mark of the B'hoy about him. I will introduce the first to the reader as Mr. Grove; the second as Captain Hempere. 
               Mr. Grove seemed laboring under a great state of excitement, which at each successive glass of punch, seemed to get higher and higher, as if its steam effected some of the unseen machinery of the brain. 
               D-n it, Capt.," said he-"it'll never do to let this infernal Englishman come and crow on my own ground." 
               "That's a fact-but I don't see how we can stop him now?" replied the worthy Captain. 
               "Can't you hiss him down?" 
               "I'd rather knock him down?" replied Hempere. 
               "Yes, if he'd only stay knocked down, but that wouldn't do no good! He must not play! What will stop him?" 
               "Rocks, Mr. Grove; rocks!" said the Captain, emphatically. 
               "Rocks?-you mean dollars?" 
                
               "I don't mean anything else!" said the Captain, emptying his glass and refilling it. 
               "How many?" 
               "That depends how many of the B'hoys I have to use. You know they won't work without money." 
               "Well-will a thousand cover the expenses?" 
               "It may-and then again it mayn't! I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Grove, I'll act for you on one condition. I don't want any money from you-that might tell bad on a trial-but if a certain amount of money could be found in bank to my credit, I might draw some of it occasionally, and apply it to useful purposes. But I must not be connected with you in any way-nor must you appear in the matter. I can take good care of myself and my boys-but I'd rather you'd fight your own craft, yourself!" 
               "Very well-call at the Sixth Ward Bank to-morrow and you will find a bank book with your name in it, waiting for you." 
               "Very good, sir-that's the way to talk. Do you know how one of our city fighting clubs got its name?" 
               "No! which do you mean?"
                     This is not the bank kept by Pete Williams, Esquire, of Dickens' Place.
                  
                
               "The Rock-boys. According to Noah, the city historian, it was because they were always on hand for anything by which 'the rocks' could be made." 
               "Ha! Ha! That's good-but I say Cap., this thing is settled,-understood, eh?" 
               "It will be when the money's in the bank." 
               "Well, that'll be in the morning, and then you've a week to agitate and get ready in. Now let's adjourn." 
               "One minute, first-have you been to see old Gordon?" 
               "No-what do I want with him?" 
               "Take my advice, put a hundred in his hand, give him a hint, and he'll do more to get up a crowd than all of the rest of the editors in town. Pay him and he'll write anything, even if it is a libel on himself." 
                
               "That's a fact-I think your advice worth taking." 
               "I think so, too. What I don't know about New York, isn't worth knowing! Now, sir, I'll tip another tumbler and adjourn. There's going to be a cock-fight up at Brown's, and I want to see it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               THREE months have rolled by in my history, and I must draw several tableaux, or pictures, to paint the position of our characters, and to show what has passed in the interim. 
               First-one more view of that bed-chamber, in the mansion of his cursed "Eminence," where poor Irene Montressor, the victim of his morality, died like a Lucretia by her own hand. In that chamber see a young girl in tears-a lovely girl. Her long black hair is loosely scattered over a fair neck and drooping shoulders-hiding also her face from our view. Her rounded form is slight, yet beautiful. Seated on a yielding ottoman, it sways to and fro, rocking as if her soul was in agony. She seems not to heed the beautiful furniture-the voluptuous paintings, the costly hangings of the room. The cooling dash of the fountain in the alcove, falls listlessly on her ear. Who can she be? Ah-a step beyond the door-a hand laid upon its lock-she raises her head. Is it possible! Do we behold Lizzie Laurel? Her face is pale, yet the features are the same-her eyes, glittering with tears, are larger, brighter than ever. But, see! She shudders, and why? The door opens, and his Eminence enters the room. Advancing with that everlasting, saintly smile on his cold countenance, he says, in a tone low and sweet- 
               "Why hast thou been weeping, child!" 
               "Oh, Eminence, I cannot do it. I cannot harm him." 
               "Pshaw, child! You say you love-I offer you a chance to marry him, and will you refuse it?" 
               "Oh, Eminence, the day was, when I would have laid down life itself, to have had his lips pressed to mine, and heard him call me wife, but now-" 
               She shuddered and did not conclude the sentence. 
               "Well now, what mean you, child?" 
                
               "Eminence, loving him as I do-loving him as I have loved him, dare I, could I, even if he were divorced from his present wife, through my false evidence, go to his arms the polluted, the dishonored thing you know me to be." 
               "Poh, child, it never will be known! Think you I have so little precaution, so little discernment, as to permit my plans to rest on slight security?" 
               "Eminence, you do not understand me! I could not deceive him-I love him." 
               "Poor fool!" said the priest, with a smile. "What fools you women are. Artful, though you may be by study-heartless, through association and practice, when it comes to the last, true test, nature will out, and you are woman, heartful woman after all." 
               Leaving that, we will change to another scene. 
                
               Ernest Cramer was seated by his wife. Though it was early in the evening, about twilight, she was dressed in dishabille, an evidence that she cared more for personal comfort and for her husband's happiness than very young married ladies are apt to. And yet company was present. An effeminate, young-looking man was present, upon whose upper lip a very scattered moustache grew, or was stuck on. His cheeks looked as if they were indebted to Gouraud for their color-his lips looked salvy, though his head did not appear to have much of the sabe in it. The dress of this individual was foppish, and in fact he bore the full semblance of one of those apish things, known as a Broadway dandy-creatures which come out, like butterflies, on a sunny afternoon-staring with their weak eyes, through quizzing-glasses, at the beauty on the pave, as bats look down through even's twilight on a garden of flowers. I never think of these things, without my lip curling in scorn, and my heart shrinking with disgust. A woman of soul and mind and feeling, could no more love such a class of male individuals (I cannot call them men,) than she could love a race of sick baboons. A woman, that is a woman, I care not what be her station in life, loves a man! Foppishness-the mere accomplishments of the drawing-room, will not win her love or esteem Chivalry, honor, truth, and candor, even though they are almost blunt, will please far better than the soft-sayings, the insulting flattery, the unmeaning compliments of one of the things I have alluded to Isn't it so, dear ladies? There, I thought you'd answer yes, just as quick and as natural, as if some favored lover had asked you to bless him with your hand. 
               Ernest though seated by the side of her he loved, seemed fretful and uneasy. Time after time he glanced at his watch, and rising, paced the apartment. 
               "What is the matter, Mr. Cramer?" asked the lady. "You seem very nervous." 
               "How can I help it, dear Serena. You know I am engaged this night to address my brothers of the Order in New Brunswick-that at this moment they are waiting for me." 
               "Have you not telegraphed to them that I was sick, and you could not come?' 
               "Yes, Serena, but still I cannot feel satisfied. Though the event we expect may occur to-night, yet were it not-were you not really sick enough to excuse the neglect, I should forever feel ashamed for having disappointed them." 
               "Poh!" cried the lady, her beautiful lip curling in disdain, "you think a great deal of a set of common mechanics, when you can hesitate between their wishes and mine-don't you think he does, Mr. Plantagenet?" 
               "Ah, demme, yes'm!" said the individual appealed to. 
               "Serena!" said Cramer, calmly, "you know that you pain me, when you allude slightingly to the workingmen of America. I have been, ever will be devoted to them, for such as they, won our freedom-such as they, must preserve it." 
               "Preserve it! just as if it was in danger! That's a good joke, isn't it, Mr. Plantagenet?" 
               "Demmed foine, on honor, mem-dem'd foine!" 
               Cramer paid little heed to the conversation, walking to and fro in the room, evidently "out o' sorts," but at last, taking out a pocketbook, pretty well filled with papers, he remarked: 
                
               "You'll have to excuse me, Serena; I forgot a little piece of business. I received a notice to-day from Binghampton, which I must refer to Mr. Graham, my legal adviser. It will not take me long to see him." 
               "Certainly, Mr. C.; but do not be long absent, I feel nervous. Maybe Mr. Plantagenet will go along?" 
               "Yes'm! Oh, yes'm, I loike a promenade in the evening. Its refreshing-dem'd foine!" 
               Cramer did not seem to heed this offer of an escort, but putting on an overcoat and taking a cane in his hand, as usual, he kissed his wife's fair brow and left the room, accompanied (without requesting it) by the individual whom Mrs. C. called Plantagenet. 
               And here we will let this picture, or tableaux, end. 
                
               Next we will refer to a scene which occurred several hours previous to that which was last described. 
               It occurred in the counting-room of a wealthy merchant in the city. There were three persons present, who belonged to the class known to the world as the "upper ten," named by one Bennett, the "codfish aristocracy," known to me, only, as the snobocracy. Three of this class were there, and before them stood one of the "b'hoys of New York." 
               "How many men can you take there?" asked one of the merchants. 
               "Fifty, or sixty, o' the right stripe!" 
               "And they'll hurrah for McReady, and fight, if anybody tries to interrupt him?" 
               "Yes, provided they're paid!" 
               "They shall be; but you'll want tickets to go in with?" 
               "Yes, and 'blunt' to treat'm with. The boys'll be dry till they get in a load!" 
               "Then here's a hundred dollars in fives," said the first speaker; "use it with discretion; there's a budget of tickets, too, a hundred or more; use both properly." 
               "D-n me if I don't!' muttered the b'hoy, as he went out. 
                
               This ends the third tableaux-we will try a fourth scene 
                
               The day had opened with a grey mantle of drizzly cloud between the earth and the sun. All the day long the atmosphere seemed heavy and stifling, as if ominous of some impending evil. About the corners in the lower part of the town, groups of people could be seen conversing in an excited manner. Around and in the grog shops of Park Row and Centre street, large crowds of the b'hoys were scattered, "going in" to the bad liquor which is plenty there, with a carelessness that betokened that money was unusually plenty with them. 
               Along the streets, at every corner, and on every post were posted large bills with singular headings, which induced every passer-by to stop and read them. On one these, words were printed in large letters: "Englishmen, will you permit your countryman to be insulted!" On another: "Americans, support your own son; down with the English hounds!" 
               Strange bills, strange notices were these, yet the money of one party paid for both-the same printer printed both, the same men had both posted around the city, and yet those men were never punished, scarcely questioned.
                     The sham trial of Rynders and others proved that the monies which were used to get up the Astor Place Riot, and the tickets which admitted the real rioters, were furnished by the very aristocrats who forced McReady to play almost against his own will.
                  
                
               But to the scene. As night approached the crowds at the corners became more dense. Some topic of universal interest seemed to have arisen. At the Mayor's office, in the Park, several of the wealthy up-town citizens, were holding a caucus, and among them was a leader of the b'hoys, quiet, saying but little, but listening to all they said. They were urging upon the weak and timid Mayor that he must call out troops, to support an actor, whom they supposed obnoxious to the people, the common, vulgar people! Troops, in a city guarded by 900 policemen, with but a few exceptions, inhabited by as orderly a people as ever lived on the face of the earth! 
                
               At this crisis, and the best act that the man ever did, the leader of the b'hoys before alluded to, spoke up, begging his "HONOR" (?) to give an order that the theatre should not be opened. "Ther'll be a row if it is!" said he; "and I hope your honor 'll consider that human life is worth more than money, or even the satisfaction that these gentlemen of the upper-ten will have in saying that they, at the price of bloodshed, have sustained themselves above the will of the people. 
               It may seem strange to the reader, that this man, already sold to two parties, should so plead for a cessation of the play, and thus, at that hour, try to stop the impending danger. But the idea vanishes, when we remember that at this hour he and his gang had got all the money they could expect from either side, and had nothing more to expect than hard knocks, or cold lead, which they are always ready to avoid, without it pays. His appeal, therefore, was not from a really good motive, but because he and his could make no more, if a riot did occur. 
               Again he used a false argument, when he said that it was the will of the people that McReady should not play. The "people," at large, cared no more about either actors, than they did about Miller, the Millenium humbug-not half as much as they did about Barnum's next "novelty." I repeat here, that the Astor Place Riot was gotten up by the card-signing aristocrats, by Bennett of the Herald, through his articles on the subject, and by a few hired rowdies, who could be hired just as readily to burn and sack a church, and who could do but one thing gratis if they had a chance, or dared, and that would be to rid themselves of a foe who, since he first raised a pen in this city, to this hour, has been, and will be, their uncompromising enemy. 
               But time sped on. Soon twilight began to deepen, and men in military uniforms were seen hurrying toward the Arsenal yard. Sober old citizens looked upon these things with surprise, the younger ones with curiosity, wishing to know what it meant. Up Broadway, not knowing for what they were going, yet filled with a strange curiosity, wishing to know what was coming off, went thousands of people-calm at heart, no animosity in their bosoms, no excitement. 
                
               And where had Ernest Cramer been all this day? With the exception of a brief visit to his office, all that long day had he been seated by the side of his wife, busily writing, little dreaming of the storm that was lowering over the peace of the city. There, until he left the house with young Plantagenet, he had remained, little thinking that the various plots for his ruin, which, with a man's energy he had combatted, were now centering in one, more dangerous than all. But to the next picture. 
                
               Earnest, in company with Plantagenet, yet not seeming much to heed the fellow's presence, passed from his door, and took the street which led to his lawyer's residence. Twilight had now deepened into the shadows of night, and a neighboring church clock told the half hour past seven. The lamps loomed up through the hazy mist, casting but little light forth, yet looking twice as large as usual. The pavements were damp and sloppy-the air chill and cold for the spring time. Yet many people were abroad, all moving silently along toward one direction-all calm, and no one appearing to know his neighbor's destination or business. 
               "I wondaw where all these common folks are a going, aw?" muttered Plantagenet. 
               "Is there not some public meeting?" suggested Cramer. 
               "Not that I know of. I read the 'Erald and the Hexpress, but I saw-ah, I remember the 'Erald said there might be a wumpus at the Hastor Place Hopera 'Ouse, demme! I think that's what the fools are going to see." 
               "True!" said Cramer, "I had forgotten it-yet there is too much good sense in the community, I hope, to permit it to join in the private quarrels of two play actors!" 
               "Aw! demme, yes!" and the dandy, having exhausted himself by this sensible reply, walked on in silence. 
               They soon arrived at the house where Mr. G. resided, but here Cramer was doomed to a disappointment. He had gone up to the Opera House, said the servant. 
               "I must see him to-night!" muttered Cramer; "it is important that he sees this notice-it has only seven days' time left. I'll go up to the Theatre." 
               "Aw, yes!" and Mr. Plantaganet went along with Cramer. 
               They proceeded up to Broadway, where the throng became thicker and thicker, all moving toward one point-all quiet, and apparently wondering what was on the tapis-yet all moving together. Soon Cramer and his companion reached a point opposite the large building, known as the Opera House. Here an immense crowd were standing, all looking in quiet wonder toward the building, which was as usual, brilliantly lighted up. In closer toward the theatre, carriages and omnibuses were setting down their loads of company, while a few of that class of vagabond boys, who on Sundays loaf around the rum-shops and wharves, and who have often brought injurious reports on our noble firemen, by their habits of "running with the engines," where shouting and yelling at them. Policemen were scattered about, mostly to be known by their clubs, for they had their "stars" hidden.
                     See evidence of Captain Tilley, on the trial of Judeon.
                  
                
               At this hour, in the whole mass, and all around the Theatre, everything was quiet, except the hooting of small parties of these rowdy boys, who yelled, they knew not at what, or why. But at this moment an omnibus filled with young men, whose dress, close cut hair, and unmistakable language, at once proclaimed them to be members of one of the fighting clubs of the city drove up to the doors. They had tickets for admittance, and were received at the doors of that theatre just as kindly as if they had worn kid gloves and carried gold-headed canes in their hands. Why was this? Let those "Card-signing Aristocrats" reply-let them reply over the graves of the victims of their folly. 
               Soon after these rowdies were admitted, hideous noises, shouts, groans, and yells were heard to come from the interior of the theatre, by those who were outside. Then a commotion began outside. Men who had tickets tried to gain an entrance, and were denied. Excited by the shouts, and full of the fun of destructiveness, the boys first alluded luded to returned yell for yell; and some, bolder than the rest, began to cast stones at the windows of the building, shattering here and there a pane of glass. At this moment, a large body of the police were called to protect the dwelling of a female millionaire, though no one ever dreamed of an attack upon it. Yet there was wine in its cellars-food in its lockers, and our brave police deemed it their duty to protect these necessary articles. The house was close at hand-they would be near the scene of action. 
               It was at this moment that Ernest Cramer, accompanied by the handsome Plantagenet, reached the upper side of Eighth street, nearly opposite the theatre. Here he paused on the side-walk, and gazed toward the building, as did thousands of others, wondering what was to occur, or why so large a crowd were assembled. Closer in by the building, a few rowdy boys were shouting and yelling-occasionally a stone or two was thrown, and then a rush would be made by some of the police for the offenders, who, laughing and yelling, would run away. While Cramer stood there, a man came and impertinently stared him in the face; but as he immediately afterwards disappeared in the crowd, Cramer thought no more of the circumstance. Plantagenet, whose frilled shirt began to suffer from the pressure of so many beings, declared the crowd "dem'd annoying," and backed out. Cramer, who had no further desire to stay, followed him; but before he had taken ten steps toward Broadway, he found himself suddenly seized by four or five stalwart men, who shouted in a tone that told that they were "natives" of some other soil than this: "Here he is, sure! In wid the bast-in wid him!" 
               Before he could reply or offer resistance, he was half-shoved, half-carried across the street, gaining free admittance into the theatre very much against his desire. Here a scene opened to his view which would out-rival Pandemonium. He was carried into a lower lobby of the building, where were already confined some dozens of the rowdies who had been hired to support the actor, but who really turned out to be rioters. Mad with drunkenness and rage-their clothes half-torn off, many of them bruised and bloody, venting forth horrible curses and imprecations they seemed more like fiends let loose from hell, than human beings. Seeing Cramer brought in, they yelled with a mad glee, and shouted to the officers to give him over to them, some of them swearing they would tear him limb from limb. They did not recognise him as a rioter; but they did recognise him as a denouncer and hater of all the rowdies and villains in the city-one who had held them up to the public indignation, and demanded of the authorities their dissolution. And so violent were the rioters against this lone man, that the police were forced in very shame to protect him. 
               It was yet early. All this had occurred before or by eight o'clock. But now the noise outside the theatre grew louder and louder. Soon a man was brought in severely wounded. When asked how it was done, a policeman explained that a troop of Dutch horsemen had been ordered to ride through the crowd, and this man had been struck down by a cavalry sword. Ever and anon, the brave police, four or five at a time, would rush in with a fresh prisoner, some young boy, who, through the influence of bad company, or curiosity, had come within their reach. 
               Suddenly, a fearful cry was heard, a fearful cry, when heard in a house crowded with human beings-Fire! fire!! FIRE!!! A thick and stifling cloud of smoke bursts from a lower room; but in a moment its source is discovered, and it is stamped out, without even the use of water. 
               Still louder now is heard the uproar inside and outside the theatre-the noise quite as great within as without. A portion of the people, maddened by being ridden over by the Dutch cavalry when standing quietly in the street, and being knocked down by policemen when from the outside pressure they have no chance of retreat, have dared to resist-have dared to defend themselves! The police now retreat within the theatre, or to the houses of the millionaires of Astor Place. The Governor of the State, and the Mayor of the city, perched like cowards in the upper story of a hotel, instead of doing their duty on the scene of action, and interposing their high authority to quell violence, send for the military-not for a force which in numbers would, by their weight, clear the ground, but for two small companies, bidding them come with fixed bayonets and loaded muskets-and this, too, in a city guarded by nine hundred policemen-in a land of freedom, and not of armed and iron-heeled despotism! Soon they come, a small band of brave and well-trained men-sworn upon the holy Bible to support the laws, and support their officers, obeying their orders. Who will blame them for appearing there? Who will blame them for the dreadful consequences which followed? No just man! They did only as they were ordered. 
               The military came. They were ordered to march through and clear the street, now so densely crowded that men could neither get out of the crowd, or force it back. With charged bayonets they try to force their way through. Men feel the points of cold steel, and shriek that they cannot fall back-people from the outside are so continually pushing in to see what is going on. And then many a one-some of them soon were cold in death-wished that curiosity had not led them there. And now the police, emboldened by the presence of an armed force, again showed themselves, and began to beat back those who would gladly have retreated if they could. And then, and not till then, did the riot really commence. Then men, maddened by pricking bayonets, and by blows which were showered upon them, and which they could not retreat from, tore up stones from the pavement, and dashed them into the faces of the soldiers and the police. It was in vain, then, that the Recorder, a brave, noble and honorable man, begged the crowd to disperse. Had they the disposition, unless the outside masses had first fallen back, those next to the soldiers could not! And the outside masses were too far away to hear his voice. The people now aroused to anger, forced in upon bayonets and clubs, attempted to drive the soldiers back. Then, and be it remembered, in self-defence, the soldiers fired. Some with commendable, but mistaken humanity, fired over the heads of the people-mistaken humanity, I say, for people were killed four and five hundred yards distant, who were as innocent as unborn babes of even a connection with the crowd. One, a woman, was shot in a railroad car, beyond the crowd. Others were killed who were struggling to get clear of the crowd; and never yet has it been proved that one active opposer of the troops or police was shot. Three times did those death-dealing tubes pour out their leaden messengers of fate in that crowd; and then, when people on the outer edge beheld dead men carried past them, and then only, did they begin to understand that there was a riot, and it was necessary for them to disperse. Then, as they fell back, those who had been forced by imprudence on the part of the authorities to become rioters, had room to fall back, and to retire, sad and indignant, to their homes. Then did the kid-gloved aristocrats who had brought all this evil about, retire to their palaces, rejoicing that they had carried their point-that McReady had played. Little cared they for the groans of the dying; little heeded they the moans of the widowed and orphaned ones, whose husbands and fathers had that night been sacrificed to their pride. Oh God! have those people consciences, and can they think? If so, let their curse be to think forevermore! 
               Where was Ernest Cramer all this time? Confined in a lower part of the theatre. In vain did he represent that he was not a rioter, but a supporter of the laws, in all cases. In vain did he demand his release. The "Greeks," the "authorities" which he had so often condemned for selling and prostituting justice, and last, but not least, the Jesuits, whose own servants had arrested him, had got a hold upon him, had got a charge fixed, and he was from that hour 
                     A DOOMED VICTIM!
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               AND now for a few more tableau pictures. The first will be seen in the Reception Room of his Eminence. The parties, Judas Iscariot Arnold, his Eminence, James Gordon, Esq., and Manton, the gambler. 
               "Ah," cried his Eminence, "you have done it well, Gordon. This paragraph is capital-you will soon make the people believe there is no fiend in Hell so black as this Cramer. Yes," he continued, laying down the black-mail sheet which he had been reading, "you will sway the opinion of the outsiders; our own organ, with the powerful pen of McVampyre, will fix his fate in Catholic minds; Manton and Arnold will reach the masses in their pamphlet of his life, and I will carry out my plan to destroy his domestic peace, and cause a divorce between him and his wife. That, while it breaks his heart, will be the final blow to damn his reputation. We have our foe in our hands-he cannot escape us now." 
               "No, dom him, no!" said the Scotchman. 
               "And now I almost feel inclined to pity the fellow!" said Manton. "If I did not believe that I shall secure that magnificent wife of his for myself, I should almost feel like relenting. Gambler though I am, I can feel a regret to see a brave man snared by such a set of d-d rascals as we are." 
               "You are complimentary, sir!" said the priest, severely. 
               "Truth don't always study the effect of her compliments!" replied the gambler. "I, sir, can win a man's money and smile while I ruin him. I can shoot an enemy down in fair fight, or if I think him dangerous, stab him in the back-but when at one fell swoop we rob a man of everything that makes life worth having, knowing too, that we rob him through falsehood and treachery-it seems almost as if it was going a shade too far. I have suffered in my feelings as much, and in my pocket more, than any of you have. He has held my name up to scorn and contumely; called me a common robber. He has drawn victim after victim from my grasp, even when their fortunes seemed in my power. He has stirred up the very devil in my camp-but yet I feel, now, that we are running him a little too hard." 
               "A splendid sermon! Can't I get you to preach for me, after mass, next Sunday, sir!" said the priest, mockingly. 
               "Aye do, an' I'll send one o' ma splendeed corps of reporters to tak' it doon!" said Gordon. 
               "I wonder what has come over you, Manton!" said Arnold with a sneer. "It is not your usual way to forgive one who has injured you-nor your custom to let a man up till you have stripped him. Remember, sir, you are pledged to others of the profession, to carry this matter out, and that a large amount of money has been contributed by them for the purpose, which we hold." 
               "That's true!" said the gambler. "It was only a momentary weakness that came over me-a kind of feeling that I often felt before I became what I am! Go on, gentlemen; I'll be foremost with you now." 
               "So will I, dom it, so long as it pays!" said the Scotchman. "And now I'll go to ma offeece, and write another arteekle for tomorrow's paper, hitting him again, and just hinting a wee bit at a deevorce in embryo. I'll touch him, or get "At." to do it. It takes heem to do the bitter!" 
               The favorite servant of his Eminence came in at this moment, and handed the latter a note. The priest opened it, and with a smile, said: 
               "The thing works well. I've a note here from the Magistrate. The fellow has done exactly as I wished-he has given bail. Had he demanded an instant examination, our proof not being made up yet, he might have been discharged; but now we will have time to fix and secure his indictment by a Grand Jury, and plenty of time to secure proper witnesses, and influence the public mind so as to ensure his conviction. And Gordon, by the way, in regard to that libel suit I would advise you not to pursue it legally, but keep threatening annoying and complaining, and work on the popular feeling against him on that point. He might, if tried on that, prove his own innocence, and the guilt of our tool, as also certain other imprudences, which would change the tide of public opinion in his favor, and lessen our chances on this point." 
               "Weel, weel, just 
                     as as
                     as
                   yer Eminence wull hae it. Dom the bit do I care, so long as it pays." 
               "The plan of His Eminence is good!" said Arnold, after a moment's study. 
               "Well, gentlemen, I see no further use of continuing this conference. Take a glass of wine with me, and then excuse my further attendance. I have other business to attend to." 
                
               When Earnest Cramer was arrested, the mostachioed dandy was already some hundred yards ahead, going down Broadway at as rapid a rate as his feeble limbs would carry him. In a short time he reached the residence of Cramer. Rushing into the parlor, with a few drops of sweat oozing out from his painted face, like rosin melting from the barked side of a Southern pine, he threw himself upon a sofa, and fanning himself with his hat, cried: 
               "Aw! Demme!" 
               "What is the matter, Mr. Plantagenet?-you alarm me!" cried Mrs. Cramer. "Where is Ernest?" 
               "Aw, demme! Crowd-Hastor Hopera 'Ouse-threw stones-swore wulgarly-pressure vewy gwate. Disarranged my curls, and dirtied the bosom of my linen-vulgaw crowd, very. Saw Ernest once, standing amongst the people-crowd too great-was afraid I'd faint, and so I came away-demme." 
               "And Ernest?" 
               "Is there, demme!" 
               "Is there no danger?" 
               "Dangaw! Yes'm! Dangaw of being squeezed into a dem'd un fashionable shape." 
               "And nothing more?" 
                
               'No, nothing more, 'pon my honaw!-
                     It will be remembered, by the reader of the preceding chapter, that Plantagenet left before the riot commenced.
                   but that would be horrible, demme." 
               "One, two, three long and weary hours passed before Ernest Cramer arrived at his home. The dandy had long before left for "that repose which ever awaits innocence and beauty." I quote from an ancient poet. 
               One, two, three hours did the wife await the return of her husband, but he came at last. It was midnight. He was pale and nervous. She noticed it. 
               "What is the matter, Ernest?" she asked. "You have been in trouble." 
               "Yes, dear Serena, yes! I have been arrested as a rioter." 
               "As a rioter! Has your Americanism carried you so far as that, sir?" said the wife coldly. 
               "Carried me so far, Serena! You surely do not think that I have been guilty of joining in the mob?" 
               "Why then were you arrested, sir?" 
               "By some of those hounds whom I have offended by my free expressions was I arrested, madam; not because I have been a rioter. But I only came home to allay your fears; I thought you would be anxious, as I never before have staid out so late since our marriage. I must return to the station-house; I am now out on my parole of honor, to return within an hour. I must stay there till morning, and then I will give bail. The charge of riot is false and cannot be sustained for an instant. I have, in all of my articles upon the subject, sided with your countrymen on this matter." 
               "So you have, Ernest; forgive me for an unjust suspicion; you know not how they are trying to set me against you; forgive me, for I love you, and they shall not make me hate you." 
               "God's curse be on them who would try to tear two loving hearts asunder. May He in his awful might breathe down an-" 
               "Oh, Ernest, dear Ernest, stop! Call not down the curses of Almighty God on those of my own blood. Fear not, they shall not change me." 
               "God grant they may not, Serena. That would be the only thing that could crush me. All other oppressions and wrongs I can bear; but when you-you, the mother of the child which soon will open its eyes to Heaven's sunlight, desert me, then shall I die!" 
               "Fear it not, my husband. They tell me strange stories, but I cannot and will not believe them." 
               "Serena!" said that husband, solemnly; "Serena, I have every reason to believe that a deep and cunningly laid plot is at work to ruin our peace and to separate us. You know that I have never uttered an unkind word to you." 
               "You have not, dear husband." 
               "Then promise me, come what may, never to decide against me, on any charge, until you have heard my defence and given me a chance to confront my accusers. Serena, as God hears me, I solemnly swear that I have been and will be true to you; I am impulsive, too confiding, too open, perhaps; but I can never be guilty. You know that I never lie-I will not break my vows." 
               It seemed as if affections which day by day had been growing colder and colder, rushed back like an ebb tide turning flood, into that young wife's heart. With a burst of passionate tears, she threw herself upon his throbbing breast, and amidst kisses, and broken sobs, murmured out words of affection warmer than ever before came from her lips. For minutes she lay thus upon his bosom, and he with tender looks and fond replies, pressed her closer and closer to his heart. Oh, that was a happy HOUR! Serena, is it forgotten?
                
               Time flew rapidly on. The husband glanced at his watch, and said sadly: 
               "Serena, my hour is nearly up; I must return to the station-house-remember, my parole is given. Though free, I am still a prisoner." 
               "A prisoner? Oh, say not so, dear husband. You must not go back amongst that vile rabble." 
                
               "I must, my sweet one. I never lie! My word was given to return.' 
               "Then let me go with you. It will soon be daylight. I shall not mind it with you by my side." 
               "What! dear Serena! expose you to the lawless gaze of the vile hounds in that building-expose you to the foul atmosphere of the prison? Never! never. Sooner would I rot there alone, than let you breathe for one hour its chill and tainted air. Bear up, love Be a woman, and ere nine o'clock in the morning, I will be again by your side. I shall send for bail immediately after daylight." 
               With fond kisses and kind words, they separated-he to go to the station-house, she to retire to her bed for the first time since their marriage, alone. 
                
               And now for another picture. Like a panorama, now moves the conspiracy along. Now, as it draws towards a point, each character stands vividly out, and plays its part in the drama. Now can the guiding and master-hand of the whole be seen-now can the reader see how terrible a power can be brought to bear upon an innocent man, when wealth and Jesuitical hate and strength, linked with vice, move on in secrecy and might to crush him. Who can withstand it? No mortal man or woman, unless the merciful hand of Almighty God is stretched out to support and save them. 
               It was three months later still. Beside his Eminence, in his favorite chamber, two females were seated. One was Gulietta, alias the widow Montrose. The other was Lizzie Laurel, but how altered. A brazen look of self-confidence occupied the look of purity and innocence which she once wore-her ruin was complete-for shame had fled from her heart forever. Oh, what a very fiend a woman can be, who is lost to shame. As woman is unapproachably lofty, aye, even holy in her purity, so is she when fallen, inconceivably low and depraved. With her there is no medium-she must be an angel, or a devil. 
               Forgive me, if I wrong the sex, but a keen observance of human nature has taught me this. I have seen woman in the palace, and in the prison-have seen her in the humble cot of virtuous poverty, and in the tinselled dens of iniquity. I have wept over her wrongs, and battled for her rights. I have loved, God in Heaven only knows, how purely, how devotedly, how madly I have loved woman. Yet never have I hated her, though from woman came the harshest blow that ever fell upon my strained and sorrowing heart. Then have not I a right to express a knowledge of their nature? 
               But to my story. A sarcastic smile was resting on the face of his Eminence, as he addressed Lizzie Laurel. 
               "So, my little beauty, you failed in your attempt upon his heart and virtue, and he scornfully refused your advances." 
               "Yes!" she replied, and her voice once so low and sweet, was husky with passion. "Yes, but Ernest Cramer shall rue the day when he bade me leave him, and drew back in haughty pride from me as a lost and degraded thing. I may be lost, but I am too good for him." 
               "So you are, my dear!" chimed in Mrs. Montrose. "Beauty like yours would win a hermit from his cell, and will yet draw the homage of the most wealthy, talented and beautiful of our land to your feet. If he had so scorned me, I would hate him, oh, how I would hate him." 
               "I do hate him!" muttered the girl between her closed teeth. "I could tear his icy heart from out his bosom and eat it." 
               The smile on the priest's face grew brighter and yet more devilish, as he marked the passion in the young girl's soul. He saw that she was now ripe for his designs-that now she would be a willing tool for his revenge. 
               "You say you hate him, child-prove it!" he said. 
               "How? show me how." 
               "Be revenged at once upon him, and her he loves; tear them apart: break their hearts-ha! ha! what a glorious revenge that would be." 
               "Yes, yes"-she hissed between her pale lips; "Yes, I will do it-I will do it; only teach me how." 
               "You must go to her and tell her that he seduced you. Go to the wife of his bosom and tell her, that while he was vowing love and constancy to her, he was drawing you to ruin and to infamy in his arms. Take Mrs. Montrose with you for proof; she will corroborate all you say; but tell her all this in confidence-let him not be brought to confront you, or you will fail. But, with well feigned tears, attest your ruin; appeal to her for right. If yet she doubts, fly to her relations and tell them the same tale; offer proof, and I will see that you have the proof. Do this well, and I will secure to you a fortune for life, and a husband, if you want one." 
               "I will! I will!" she muttered in the same fierce, low, firm tone. 
               "Do it, and I will see that oath upon oath shall be ready to attest to all you utter. But be careful to so bind them to secrecy, that all will break upon him at the same hour when the trial for riot comes off. He must receive a blow from every point at once, and he must fall. Gulietta-how stands Hilton; is he yet in the web of your charms?" 
               "He loves me, Eminence, and I have made him hate Cramer." 
               "It is well! All is well. He cannot escape; in vain now may he launch forth his anathemas at the Holy Church, and our sect. Soon he will be scorned by all; his name be a bye-word of disgrace; his power wasted; his heart broken; he an outcast from the world. Ha! ha! a glorious plot and nobly carried out." 
               The priest laughed till his face became scarlet. His eyes seemed to gloat upon the sight of a writhing victim. He rubbed his white hands together as if he could not restrain a single sign of glee. 
               "Yes!" he cried; "he shall be a CONVICT-a DIVORCE-an outcast-from the hearts of all mankind. Then, and not till then, will the strong arm and fearless tongue which has upheld and preached Native Americanism, be palsied and helpless. Then and not till then, will a blight and a shadow come upon those whom he has converted and who have supported him. When they despise him they will forget his teachings, and the most dangerous foes to the advancement of our sect will be cast down. Glorious plot; happy consummation. 
                
                
               Another picture yet. Ernest Cramer stood in his wife's chamber, pale, sad, and thoughtful. His young wife pacing to and fro in the room, bearing in her arms an infant, which, even young as it was, bore his features. His eye of blue was duplicated in its own-his brow, square and massive, was seen in its forehead. And, young as it was, it laughed and held out its arms. 
               "Serena!" said he, "my trial is to come off to-morrow." 
               "I am aware of it, sir!" she said, coldly, "and it is not the only trial you have to meet." 
               "My God, Serena, what is the matter? What can have changed you so!" 
               "Wrongs, sir-your wrongs!" 
               "My wrongs? Serena, as God hears me, never have I wronged you in word, thought, or deed." 
               "Do not add perjury, sir, to infamy. I have proof for all that I utter." 
               
                  Proof-proof, did you say, Serena!-Then if you have it, produce it-let me meet my accusers. Remember your promise." 
               "You shall have proof and a chance when your trial comes on-until then, sir, I do not wish to see your face." 
               "Serena, for our child's sake, hear me" 
               "No, sir, go-go to your trial." 
               "Serena, on my bended knees-knees which never before were bent to a mortal, I pray you to hear me." 
               "Leave me, sir! I will meet you at your trial-leave me, ere I hate you more than I do." 
               "Hate me, Serena! Hate me? Oh my God, has it come to this!" 
               Man though he was-Ernest Cramer burst into tears and left the room-yet, as he left it, he turned one look towards his child. It held out its little arms to him as if to call him back. He never saw it more. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               A WEEK more has passed, and a week nearer to eternity, and to his doom, was the victim. Our next picture is a hall of JUSTICE, as it is falsely called, in New York, or, in other terms, a Court-room. On the bench three persons were seated. The centre individual was a tall, rather good-looking man, so far as his figure was concerned; but he was low-browed, and had a look which betokened natural vulgarity, which even education and an association with refined society could not entirely overcome. His countenance wore an expression of hauteur which at once told an observer, that where he had power, he would be a tyrant. His features were of that cast which at once showed his Irish birth. There is something in an Irishman which always distinguishes his land of nativity-you never can mistake him. In an American, Englishman, Dutchman or Frenchman there are peculiarities; but for all you may be mistaken in judging by sight of their nationality. Not so with the Irishman-you never will mistake him for anything but a Patlander. On the left of the first judge sat an assistant, or associate, who was also an Irishman, as could be seen by his looks. On the right sat a stupid, heavy-looking man, who had neither, in feature or manner, sufficient expression to give any one an idea either of his nationality or profession. This party composed the Court. 
               Before the judges, were seated three lawyers, who filled the position of public prosecutors. The hook nose, keen black eyes, coarse black hair, swarthy complexion and high cheek bones of one, betokened him to be a Jew. The sharp, Irish features, pale complexion, and sanctified look of another would have led me to imagine that he was a Jesuit. Perhaps the imagination in such a case would be nearer truth than it is in some cases. The third was a sallow-faced crab-apple-tree-featured man, who looked as if he would delight in seeing every thing, and every man on earth, writhing in misery. 
               The Court room was crowded. The hour for the trial had arrived. Ernest Cramer entered the room and seated himself near the bar. A friend joined him: 
               "Who is your lawyer?" he asked. 
               "I have none," replied Cramer. 
               "My God! you are not going to risk a trial like this without a lawyer?" 
               I am, and for two reasons. In the first place, I am innocent; in the second, innocent or guilty, I am already tried, convicted and sentenced. I have no chance of an acquittal. See Judge Weekly on the bench-he is my bitter, personal enemy! See that Irish Alderman-see that block-head on the other side. See the panel of jurymen, all of them foreigners! What chance have I?" 
               "A poor one, Ernest; but for your friends' sake, fight a good battle. Do not let it be said you were conquered without resistance." 
               "I will resist! I will, before I am sentenced to a felon's cell, curse those who send me there. I will pray God to revenge me-for I will soon be beyond the power of taking vengeance in my own hands. shall not survive my sentence many days. I have lost all that is worth caring for." 
               "No, no, Ernest. Do not say that. You have warm and true friends who will cling closely to you in the hour of trouble. For their sake engage a lawyer-do not deny me-I will see to it myself;-there is James M. Somers, a man of genius and heart. Engage him at once-if not for yourself, do it to satisfy your friends-you must not be sacrificed without an effort." 
               "Efforts will be in vain!" said Cramer, sadly, but firmly. "I employ Mr. Somers at your request, but it is throwing money away." 
               After saying this, Cramer passed across the room and addressed the lawyer alluded to, as Mr. Somers. He was a man of about 35 years-a bland, intellectual-looking man, whose appearance indicated both talent and firmness. 
                
               "Mr. Somers!" said Cramer, "I did not intend to employ counsel in this case, but my friends force me to do it." 
               "Sir," replied the lawyer, "it is too late for me to do justice to your cause, but I will do the best I can. At any rate, I will assist you in empanelling a jury. I foresee a hard fight, even in that." 
               The case commenced. The clerk of the Court, after one of the prosecuting attornies had called up the case, commenced calling out the jury panel. The first name called was 
               "Michael O'Burns." 
               "Here I am!" said the man, whose looks told us as well as his name what he was. "Here I am, faith, and ready for yez." 
               Mr. Somers proceeded to put the usual questions in regard to prejudice, &c. 
               "Is it prejudiced I am?" said the would-be juror. "Devil the bit! But I mane to do my share in sindin' that heretic divil where he can't spake ill o' the likes o' myself." 
               "Do you think he is guilty?" asked Somers. 
               One of the prosecutors here interfered, alleging the question to be improper; but the Irishman was but too anxious to answer it. 
               "Yes, sure an' I know he is! Sure an' he's a heretic and a native!" 
               For very shame the prosecutors set aside this juror; he had not been properly drilled. 
               The clerk now called another. 
               "Hans Petrick!" 
               A tall, red-faced, raw-boned man stood up. The usual questions was asked of him. He stared stupidly at the lawyer, but made no answer. The question was repeated. He answered but one word, yet that was enough to show the kind of jury which had been selected for the occasion. His reply was brief; it was 
               "Nix!" 
               "Don't you understand English?" asked Mr. Somers 
               "Nix!" replied the Dutchman. 
               "Will the Court be pleased to have an interpreter in this case?" asked Mr. Somers, in a tone of bitter irony. 
                
               "The Court will not permit itself to be insulted, sir!" said the senior judge, with all of the dignity of a theatrical "cadi," and such a cadi! 
               "We mean no insult to your Honor; but it seems that we cannot understand the state of this juror's mind without an interpreter." 
               "He will not serve; the clerk will call another!" said his Honor. The clerk called: 
               "John Simpson Simpkins!" 
               "'Ere," replied a squeaking voice, and a thin, thread-and-needle-selling-looking little fellow stepped forward. He, too, was asked if he could judge impartially, according to the law as delivered by the Court, and the evidence of the witnesses. 
               "Pon my honor hi can!" he replied. 
               "Where were you born, sir?" asked Somers. 
               "That is not a fair question!" said the closest prosecutor. 
               "Then I challenge him peremptorily!" said Somers; "I do not want my client tried by a Cockney." 
               "No personalities here, sir!" shouted the judge, looking ferocious as an angry "Thomas cat." 
               "I do not wish to be personal in this case, your Honor!" said Somers blandly; "but I see in the very nature of the jury list before us, a determination to have my client, who is a free American, and well known for his American principles, tried by a set of prejudiced foreigners; and I solemnly protest against such infamous injustice." 
               "Sit down, sir; sit down; do not force me by your insults to commit you for a contempt of Court. We have the power, and will use it, if this occurs again." 
               "Shakspeare, your Honor, once said-''Tis excellent to have a giant's strength, but it is cowardly to use it with a tyrant's hand, or words to that effect." 
               "We, the Court, neither know Mr. Shakspeare, or care what he says. Go on, Mr. Clerk, and call the jury!" shouted the judge. 
               The next name called was: 
               "Erastus Leaf?" 
               A rather thin, pale-faced man arose. 
                
               "He is an American, take him?" whispered Cramer to his counsel. 
               Without objection, Mr. Leaf was sworn in. 
               The next called was an Irishman, as bitter but more guarded than the first. In vain did Somers try to have the court order his name from the panel, and at last he was forced to use another peremptory challenge, which to him was a loss, for he could only use five. The next was a Dutch grocer, and as he seemed a little better than the rest, Somers did not object to him. Next came a grave, serious-looking man-one whose face indicated firmness even to obstinacy. When Somers saw him, he said to his client: 
               "I like the looks of that man!" 
               "I do not!" replied Cramer, "he looks as if his heart was in his pocket." 
               "He will not judge in this case none the more against you, for that. He looks like a miser, I acknowledge, but I think he is safe." 
               "Let him in then!" said Ernest. But when the man was sworn in, he turned a look upon the accused which made his heart sink. It was a look so full of malice-a sneering glance of withering hate. 
               "I feared him, my God I feared him!" muttered Cramer. "Whatever others may be on their trial, he is an enemy." 
               It is needless to carry out our description of the empanelling any farther. It would be but a repetition of what has already occurred. Suffice it to say that after a long and arduous struggle, Mr. Somers succeeded in getting a jury with two American born men on it. 
               And then the case was opened by the youngest of the prosecuting lawyers; as is usually the case. He was bitter and personal against the accused; told the jury that he would prove him guilty of the charge, and that he was a very wretch who must be condemned. 
               The lawyer, in a tone of malignant bitterness, went on in a harangue of an hour's length, telling the jury what he would prove and what they must do. After he was through, the prosecution called its witnesses. The first was the policemen who arrested him, and swore that they were ordered so to do, by a superior, but that they saw no act of the accused which looked like rioting; that he was walking off the ground when they arrested him. But the next witness came forward, and swore that he heard the accused utter seditious and riotous words-such as, "It is a shame Americans should be treated so," &c. &c. For this, he said, he had ordered his arrest. Then came a Greek policeman, who swore that after the troops were on the ground, he had seen the accused standing in front of them, among the people, telling them not to be afraid, there were only blank cartridges in their muskets. This man's name should be recorded in big letters, for he did the thing up brown, as will be seen by the after evidence. After this a small-sized effeminate-looking fellow got up and swore that he had heard the accused talk to two or three boys in a riotous manner. It is useless to spin out our pages with a long description of examination and cross-examination. Suffice it to say, that in no particular did they prove an overt act, or one thing of which at least ten thousand people had not been guilty. Then the witnesses for the defence were called. They were few, but they proved the utter falsity of some of the witnesses for the prosecution. They proved that Cramer had been arrested an half hour before the military arrived, which gave the direct lie to the evidence of the policeman alluded to above. Mr. Somers, then expecting that his client would be attacked, offered documents which carried proof of the good character of Cramer from some of the first men of the nation, and among them the President of the United States. But the Court would not for an instant stoop to listen to these, or receive them. The defence then rested, and the first prosecuting attorney arose. With all of the intrigue and cunning which belongs to a professional lawyer, he touched upon all the evidence bearing against the accused-appealed to the prejudices of the jury, blackened the character of the accused-in short, turned every power of his mind into one mighty effort to procure the conviction of the latter. Oh, how the red flush of indignation rushed up to the brow of Cramer, as he was forced to sit still and hear his name belied, and his character covered over with the slime of falsehood. For two or three long hours did this man continue his tirade of abuse. 
               Then, with flashing eyes, a face beaming with intelligence and indignation, and a voice of bold and thrilling eloquence, did Somers arise to reply and defend his client. With a master hand he unravelled the web which the other had so cunningly knitted. Thread by thread he tore it apart, and exhibited his client out free and clear from its guilt-involving meshes. He riddled the evidence of the witnesses; showed the absurdity of one, the malice of another, the very perjury of another. He took the whole case in his grasp; the field was all before him, and he moved on and laid down his arguments as some skilful general manuvers his army on a battle-field. After having disposed of the evidence in the case, exhibited its law points, and showed the impossibility of his client being justly convicted, he turned to the little personal attacks which had been made upon that client's character. Then his voice rose higher than ever, his feelings became more excited; and while he defied the proof of what the other had alleged, he condemned, as mean and unworthy of manhood, the course which had been pursued against his client. He offered proof which would have crushed the lies which had been spoken, and that court and that prosecution dare not accept of it! He wound up an effort of eloquence which would have been an honor to a Clay or a Webster, a speech of several hours in length, by an appeal to the jury, in the name of God, to render justice to a wronged and persecuted man. To forget all national feelings, to drop all prejudices, and to render a true verdict in the case which could only justly result in the acquittal of his client. While he was speaking, a pin might have been heard drop on the floor of the crowded courtroom, so entranced was the vast audience; but when he closed, a murmur of applause, which neither the court nor its officers could still, rolled from lip to lip through the room. Had that jury then have been called upon for their verdict, they would not have dared to bring in a verdict of conviction. 
               In a few moments the oldest of the prosecuting lawyers, a man who was then in the private employ of Cramer's bitterest persecutors, rose to his feet. His pale clammy face looked cold as frozen lard; his small grey eyes gleamed with a penetrating glance first upon the accused and then upon the jury. With a vindictive, sneering tone, he began his work. He, like the first prosecutors, endeavored to turn every word of evidence against the accused-distorted that which appeared favorable, added and exaggerated that which was against him. A long hour he thus spent in again twining the false and cunning web of fancied guilt around the form of the victim This done, in a style of bitterness which far exceeded his associated and with an eloquence worthy a better cause, he launched out in a personal attack upon the accused. He painted him as a fiend fit only for the burning plains of hell, as a man to be feared, and therefore to be bound on earth within a prison's walls to keep him from doing harm. Fiend-like, he alluded to his domestic affairs, and so worked upon the audience that they who knew Cramer was no rioter, began to believe he was a terrible man. Thus, he went on, and thus he closed. The accused had no chance to reply. By the false rules of justice in this State, the accusers have the last words, and though they state falsehoods, or blacken the case ever so much, the accused must sit silent and see his fate placed in the hands of a jury who hear his guilt thundered in their ears to the very last moment. 
               And now came the time for the judge to deliver his charge. He rose, and with as bitter, yet calmer malice than the others, proceeded to review the evidence. He laid particular stress upon the evidence of the policeman, who swore that he had seen Cramer standing in the crowd, in front of the military, telling the people that the soldiers had no balls in their muskets, even though other witnesses for the prosecution swore that the young man had been arrested and confined long before the troops had arrived on the ground, or were sent for. Oh, how just a charge! He then, coward-like, launched into invectives against the defence the prisoner and his noble-hearted counsel had made, and closed his written and deliberately prepared charge, with a statement that the jury could not acquit the accused. He might have saved himself the trouble, they never intended to. 
               But there was one man among them, and he a Dutchman, (be it said to his honor,) that could not for two hours be brought to agree with his companions. That man felt that he was doing a great wrong, and all of the Christian had not yet been banished from his heart. It was the first time he had served on a New York jury. But after the two hours had passed, they returned, and their verdict was- 
                     "GUILTY."
                  
                
               The judge did not immediately proceed to sentence the victim. He wished a night to prepare for the closing scene of the drama-a night to study out the cruellest tortures which he could inflict upon his fallen foe. Therefore he announced that the sentence would be given in the morning, and Cramer, still under heavy bail, was allowed freedom till the next day! Why? Because they vainly thought that he would fly from their reach, and go forth a wandering fugitive with the brand of convict on his name, and that thus they would be forever rid of his presence, and secure from the influence of one whom they deemed lost and disgraced. They thought their foe was forever crushed. 
               But they knew him not. Where was he on that night? With the one true and trusty friend-the one noble and honorable man, who never had failed or faltered; he was preparing calmly to go to a felon's cell-arranging his business, directing his affairs. All of that weary, terrible night, was thus passed. Ere morning came, he wrote one line to her whom even through all his sorrow and his wrongs he yet loved. It was this: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Serena, my foes have conquered-you have deserted me-but God knows my innocence! Be that your comfort when I am gone! 
                           
                              ERNEST."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
                
                  THE SENTENCE 
                  Morning came. The hour was ten. The court-room was crowded with friends and foes to the accused-so crowded that no more could pass through the door. Anxiety rested on all countenances save one, and his was calm and placid as if he were not about to be doomed to lose man's dearest privilege, his LIBERTY. Friends had he there whose eyes were tearful, whose hearts throbbed all mournfully. Friends had he there, who, had but the word been uttered from his lips, would have borne him away, even had death stood in their path, rather than to have seen him sent to a loathsome prison cell! Friends who looked upon him as a wronged man, and gazed with hate and scorn upon those who had so foully wronged him. There were foes there, too, who sneered in the joy of their fiendish triumph; who now approached their helpless enemy, as some cowardly serf approaches the body of the dead lion-brave to exceeding valor, where no further danger was to be apprehended. 
                  But to the sentence. The clerk of the Court asked, as usual: 
                  "Prisoner at the bar, have you anything to say why the sentence of the law should not be passed upon you?" 
                  Ernest rose to his feet, and first calmly turning his eyes to every face in that room, he turned to the Court, and fixing his gaze upon the judge, said, in a tone clear as a bugle-horn, and without a tremor: 
                  "Yes! I have to say that I have been tried by an unjust and prejudiced Court; convicted by a prejudiced jury, through the evidence of witnesses, more than one of whom have deliberately perjured themselves before God and man! 
                  "Yes! I have this to say, and I call upon this audience to listen to my words. I stand here as innocent of crime as the unborn babe-stand here, because it has been deemed 'a necessary evil' to crush me-because a victim must be found to screen those who actually were guilty, and who are better friends to, and more useful at election times to the authorities of this city than I, who will neither bring bullies to the polls, or sell a freeman's vote to party purposes. 
                  "Yes! I have this to say, and before high Heaven I speak it-this Court and that jury knows that I am innocent. I go, sir, to my cell, as the martyrs of old went to the stake, conscious that I am right, and fearless of all pain and all suffering, while I am right. And, sir, the day is not far off, when, tried by the calm judgment of the community, my innocence will be made known, your injustice thundered in your ear, and you will feel that this is the meanest hour of your whole life. Now, sir, asking no favors, and expecting none, (for I know how you hate me,) I await all you can or dare to do! Go on, I am ready!" 
                   
                  Several times, during the short speech of Cramer, had the Court sought to stop him, but he knew it was his last chance, and nothing but brute force could put him down. 
                  When the judge arose his face was pale with anger. His lips quivered with the excess of it. Fixing his eyes upon the prisoner, in a tone more of sarcasm than of dignity, he proceeded at length with a cruelly insulting review of the trial. He taunted the helpless prisoner with cowardice, saying that he had committed the crime of which he was convicted, and now was too cowardly to acknowledge it-he then, with a bitterness of expression which argued the malice in his heart, regretted the law did not give him power to inflict a heavier sentence upon the prisoner, aye, almost wept, because he could only send that young man to herd with felons for a single year, as if a year in prison is not a life-time to the young, the sensitive, the proud and the ambitious man. Had that judge then possessed the power of life and death, who will doubt but that he would have sentenced his victim to the scaffold, instead of the prison. He closed by inflicting the fullest sentence which the law allowed him to give, renewing his regret that he could not place a heavier load upon the breaking heart of his victim. 
                  Cramer said but three words when he heard this. "My poor mother!" he murmured-a quiver ran through his heart, then he was calm as before. But the noble audience were so astonished and so indignant at the unheard of cruelty of the judge, that a hiss-a hiss of scorn and censure followed him as he sat down. Tears, too, were rolling down many a manly cheek of those sons of toil, who had left their work to come and learn the fate of the "friend of the working man." As the officers bore the "CONVICT" from the Court-room, the crowd followed; each man of them expressing some word of sympathy, or trying to say some cheering thing to him. 
                  "Cheer up, Ernest!" cried one. "The Governor won't let you stay there a week!" 
                  "No," cried another, "fifty thousand men will sign a petition to get you out!" 
                  "Would to God I could go in your place!" said another. 
                   
                  "Farewell, boys!" cried Cramer, as he stepped into the carriage that waited to bear him away-"farewell-my time will come yet! I am not conquered! 
                  Wildly rose nine hearty cheers from the honest lips of those who heard those words. And as many a rough hand was raised to brush the stranger-tear from toil-bronzed cheeks, the carriage drove off. In it, beside Cramer, sat the faithful friend we have before alluded to. His noble heart was so full of grief that he could not speak. A stranger who knew neither, would have supposed that he, and not Cramer, was the one who was about to be barred from the light of day, and the cheerful faces of loving friends. Cramer, nerved for this crisis, determining not to appear to feel, even though his heart was breaking, seemed as cheerful and calm as he had when borne in a different direction, as he rode beside his fair young bride to the church, where both had vowed solemnly to cling to the other until death did them part. He tried in vain to make his friend feel cheerful. Even the stern officer, who sat before him, used as he was to conveying prisoners to their doom, felt sad and wretched. But this story has been already drawn out to a great length. One more scene will close it. 
                   
                  It was one week later! In a dark cell, three feet and a half wide, by seven feet long, with an iron door, stone walls above, around and below, paced Ernest Cramer, the convict. The furniture of that cell was a fine board to sleep on, a wooden block for a pillow, and three thin, dirty blankets. No books-not a light, except the straggling rays which stole through the upper part of his grated, iron prison door, which, faint as it was, cast upon his face sufficient light to show that he was deathly pale-his eyes sunken in their sockets-his features already haggard with misery and suffering. Six days had he been in that prison, and food had not passed his lips. Had he, coward-like, been trying to starve himself to death and commit suicide? No! But a breaking heart had arisen up into his very throat and choked him. He could not eat. He could not even weep. All were strangers around-all seemed merciless, cold and cruel! Though feeling hearts were near him, he knew it not! Though the good and the pure were close at hand, sympathising with him, he knew it not. 
                  On the afternoon of the sixth day, while he paced to and from the space which with three short steps he measured, a paper was thrust through the bars to him. He eagerly grasped it, for it was the first paper he had seen in prison. One glance, and he knew it to be the sheet of his enemy, the Scotch fiend, Gordon, who had done so much to procure his conviction. A second glance, and he saw his own name-a moment more, a groan echoed through that wretched cell and Ernest Cramer fell lifeless on the damp stone floor. He had dreamed for the first time that his wife had totally deserted him-saw then, and there, for the first time, that while he was bound and helpless, she had obtained a divorce! How long he lay stretched upon that cold floor, as one dead, he knew not-he only knew when he awoke to wretchedness and life, that now his cup of misery was full. When she whom he loved more than life deserted him, what had he to live for! When he arose, he was calmer, but it was the calmness of utter despair. He read the paper-read the false affidavit upon which the divorce was founded; saw himself held up to the world as false and faithless to his marriage vows. Oh, how his brain burned at all this! Had he been free, he would not then have been helpless, nor should the despised wretches have gone unpunished Casting down the paper, he again paced to and fro in that dreary cell. He was verging on madness. He already felt that a few short hours would close his career. If he could have wept, he might be safe. But he could not. A burning fire was consuming his very life. 
                  Night came on again! The prisoner's food was offered him, but with loathing he turned from it-he would not, he could not eat. And he was not even hungry, throughout all of his long fast. True, he was faint, growing weaker hour by hour, yet he heeded it not-did not care, in truth. If he had strength, for what was it destined? To be used in company with the slaves of crime-the thief, the burglar and murderer! My God, to think that an innocent man should be condemned to that! And yet more than one has been-while real criminals have hobbed and nobbed, and caroused in glee with the very judges in this city. Oh, men of New York, how long shall this be? You know it is so! 
                  Night came on, and the hall lamps of the prison threw a faint and flickering light upon the walls of Cramer's cell-a light laying in shadowed checks upon the wall, for it shone through massive grates of iron. Feebler grew the steps of Cramer-fainter beat his pulse-colder was his brow. Suddenly he heard his name called in a kind, low, sweet voice-the voice of a woman. Who could it be of that angel sex, who spoke in tones of kindness through those bars. He knew not, cared not-his heart was dead to all of womankind. But he replied, and asked what was wanted. In a low, kind tone, the lady begged him to eat food which she had prepared with her own hands. 
                  "I am not hungry! I cannot eat!" said Cramer, faintly. 
                  "But you are starving yourself-committing suicide, which is wrong in the sight of God!" continued the lady. 
                  "I cannot help it-I cannot help it!" murmured the wretched man. 
                  "Have you not a mother? In her name, I beg you do as I ask!" said the lady 
                  "A mother! A mother! Oh, my poor mother!" groaned Cramer, and then he burst into tears. The flood-gates of his soul had been unlocked by that magic name-he wept tears, blessed tears! They saved his life. For long hours that night he wept, and then when he became calm, he knelt down and prayed to Almighty God to support him in his hour of trouble. And when they next brought him food, he ate-not with any appetite, but with a calm determination to preserve himself for the future. And to the kind and never-to-be-forgotten lady of the Warden of that prison, he felt that he owed his life. Had he not wept that night, he would have died-and she through her motherly kindness alone, brought tears up from the burning depths of his heart. 
                  And, the reader will ask, where were his Eminence, Judas Iscariot Arnold, and our other "friends," all this time, and where had they been during the trial of the victim. In the back-ground, working the wires for his conviction and divorce." 
                   
                  If the reader who has followed the Convict through the troublesome path of this story, will take the trouble to read a sequel, which will be forthcoming, entitled 
                        "THE CONVICT'S RETURN;"
                        OR
                        INNOCENCE VINDICATED,
                      they will learn all that remains to be told of the characters who have figured in this work. Each shall have their place assigned them in the new work; and friends and foes shall yet learn that "Truth crushed to earth, will rise again." 
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
             
               WILKIE COLLINS' NOVELS. 
               The Dead Secret. Octavo 50 
               Hide and Seek. We have seldom read a work more thrillingly wrought out than this. Octavo. 50 
               After Dark. One of the best books of the day.-Daily Time. Octavo 50 
             
             
               J. F. SMITH'S CELEBRATED WORKS. 
               Milly Moyne; or, Broken at Last. Large octavo, paper 50 
               Philip Blandford; or, How to Win a Sweetheart. Large octavo 50 
               Redmond O'Neil; or, The Substance and the Shadow. Large octavo, paper 50 
               Prince Charles; or, The Young Pretender. Large octavo 50 
               Alice Arran; or, One Hundred Years Ago. 25 
               Dick Markham; or, Smiles and Tears. Large octavo 50 
               Lillian; or, The Adventures of an Heiress. Large octavo 75 
               Harold Tracy; or, Phases of Life. Large octavo 50 
               Bella Trelawney; or, Time Works Wonders. Large octavo 50 
               Charles Vavasseur; or, The Outcast Heir. Large octavo, paper 50 
               Henry De La Tour; or, The Comrades in Arm. Large octavo, paper 50 
               Dick Tarleton; or, The Last of His Race. Large octavo 25 
               Marion Barnard; or, Lessons of Life. Large octavo 50 
               Fred Graham; or, Masks and Faces. Large octavo, 224 pages 50 
               Romantic Incidents in the Lives of the Queens of England. By J. F. Smith. 12mo. Ill. $1 00 
               The Virgin Queen; or, The Romance of Royalty. 8vo. 225 pages 50 
               Woman and Her Master. A Novel, containing 228 octavo pages 50 
               Fred Vernon; or, The Victim of Avarice. Containing over 325 octavo pages 75 
               Harry Ashton; or, The Will and the Way. Beautifully Illustrated 50 
               Ellen De Vero; or, The Way of the Will. Beautifully Illustrated 50 
               Fred Arden; or, The Jesuit's Revenge. A Novel, containing over 200 octavo pages 50 
               Minnie Grey; or, Who is the Heir. Beautifully Illustrated 215 octavo pages 50 
               Gus Howard; or, How to Win a Wife. With Illustrations. 210 octavo pages 50 
               Rochester; or, The Merry Day of England. Beautifully Illustrated, containing 200 pages 50 
               Temptation; or, The Unknown Heiress 50 
               Amy Lawrence; or, The Freemason's Daughter 50 
               Stanfield Hall. A Romantic Historical Novel. 2 vols., paper 1 00 
             
             
               CAPTAIN JAMES GRANT'S NOVELS. 
               Frank Hilton; or, The Queen's Own. Large octavo 50 
               Philip Rollo; or, The Scottish Musqueteers. Large octavo, 224 pages 50 
               The Yellow Frigate; or, The Two Sisters. Large octavo 50 
               Harry Ogilvie; or, The Black Dragoons. A tale of the times of Charles II 50 
               The Adventures of an Aide-de-Camp 50 
             
             
               NOVELS BY SAMUEL LOVER. 
               Rory O'More. A Romance. Illustrated. 200 octavo pages 50 
               Handy Andy. One of the most humorous works ever written. Illustrated 50 
               Barney O'Rierdon; or, The Adventures of a Bashful Irishman 25 
               Legends and Stories of Ireland; or, The Adventures of Paddy Mullowney 25 
             
             
               W. H. MAXWELL'S NOVELS. 
               Adventures of Captain Blake. Illustrated. 200 octavo pages 50 
               The Bivouac; or, the Rival Suitors. With beautiful Illustrations. 190 octavo pages 50 
               The Adventures of Mick Costigan; or, The Ladder of Gold. Beautifully Illustrated 50 
               The Matrimonial Misfortunes of Peter Clancy 50 
             
             
               NOVELS BY ALEXANDER DUMAS. 
               Marguerite De Valois. A Historical Romance. Large octavo, paper 50 
               Diana De Poitiers; or, The King's Mistress. 2 large octavo volumes 1 00 
               Rosa Woodville; or, The Jailer's Daughter. Translated by Fayette Robinson, Esq 50 
               The Young Chevalier; or, The Disputed Inheritance. Translated by Thomas Williams, Esq 50 
               The Count of Morian; or, Woman's Revenge 50 
               Woman's Love; or, The Bridal Eve 25 
               Paul Jones; or, The Son of the Sea. A tale of the American Navy during the Revolution 25 
             
             
               MISS EMELIE CARLEN'S NOVELS. 
               John; or, Is a Cousin in the Hand worth Two Count in the Bush. Octavo 25 
               Marie Louise; or, The Opposite Neighbors 25 
               Woman's Life; or, The Trials of Caprice. 212 octavo pages 50 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage. Send Cash orders to Dick & Fitzgerald, Publishers, N. Y. 
             
             
               EUGENE SUE'S CELEBRATED NOVELS. 
               Matilda; or, A Young Woman's Adventures. Two large volumes $1 00 
               The Lovers of Paris. Illustrated with 27 engravings 50 
               The King of the Winds. A thrilling Novel 25 
               The French Fortune Teller; or, The Mysterious Stranger 50 
               The Widow's Walk; or, The Mystery of Crime. With numerous Illustrations 25 
               The Mysteries of the People. 1 vol., paper. 194 pages closely printed matter 50 
               Atar Gull; or, The Bridal Eve 25 
               The Adventures of Hercules Hardy. A beautiful Novel 25 
               Helene; or, The Children of Love 25 
             
             
               G. W. M. REYNOLDS' NOVELS. 
               Mary Glenworth; or, The Forbidden Marriage 50 
               Life in London. 2 vols., Illustrated with 20 engravings. 450 pages, octavo 1 00 
               Ellen Monroe. 2 vols., Illustrated with 20 engravings. 462 pages, octavo 1 00 
               Esther De Medina. 2 vols., 478 pages, octavo 1 00 
               The Reformed Highwayman. 2 vols., 500 octavo pages 1 00 
               The Mysteries of London. 2 vols., 484 octavo pages 1 00 
               Pope Joan; or, The Female Pontiff. Illustrated, large octavo 50 
               The Countess of Arnheim; or, The Magic Lantern of the World. Ill. 200 large 8vo. pages 50 
               Angela Wildon; or, The Mysteries of Altendorf Castle. 2 vols., 440 pages, beautifully Illus'd 1 00 
               The Mysteries of Old London; or, The Days of Hogarth. 307 large octavo pages 50 
               Robert Macaire; or, The French Bandit in England. Illustrated, 184 octavo pages 50 
             
             
               PROFESSOR INGRAHAM'S NOVELS. 
               Montezuma; or, the Serf Chief. 233 octavo pages 50 
               Grace Welden; or, the Beautiful Bonnet Girl. A tale of Boston and its Bay 25 
               Paul Deverell; or, Two Judgments for One Crime. A tale of the Present Time 25 
               Olph; or, The Pirates of the Shoals. One of the most romantic and thrilling Tales of the Sea 25 
               The Dancing Feather; or, The Pirate Schooner. A Romance of New York 25 
               Josephine; or, The Maid of the Gulf. A True History of some of the most Notorious Pirates 25 
             
             
               NEWTON M. CURTIS'S NOVELS. 
               Byron Blonday. A Tale of the Revolutionary War 25 
               The Ranger of Ravenstream. A Romance of the Early History of America 25 
               The Patrol of the Mountain; or, The Days of '76 25 
               The Scout of the Silver Pond 25 
               The Matricide's Daughter. A Tale of Events in the City of New York twenty years ago 25 
               The Victim's Revenge. (A Sequel) 25 
               The Star of The Fallen. (A Sequel to the above) 25 
               The Hunted Chief; or, The Female Bandit. A tale of the Mexican War 25 
               The Prairie Guide; or, The Rose of Rio Grande 25 
               The Maid of Saranac. A Tale of the War of 1812 25 
             
             
               THE TWO FAR-FAMED SEA STORIES. 
               Tom Cringle's Log. 350 pages 75 
               Cruise of the Midge. 320 pages 75 
             
             
               NED BUNTLINE'S CELEBRATED NOVELS. 
               The Mysteries and Miseries of New York. 2 vols., octavo 1 00 
               Three Years After. A Sequel to the Mysteries and Miseries of New York 50 
               The B'hoys of New York. Being a final conclusion of the "Mysteries and Miseries, etc." 50 
               Ned Buntline's Life Yarn. A thrilling story of the Sea. 192 pages 50 
               The Conspirator's Victim. A Story founded on facts, and written in prison. Nearly 300 pp. 50 
               The White Cruiser; or, The Fate of the Unheard of 25 
               The Jew's Daughter. A Yarn from the web of New York's Life 25 
               Norwood; or, Life on the Prairie. A thrilling Tale of Western Adventure 25 
               The Red Right Hand. A Romance of the Rifle and Scalping Knife 25 
               The Buccaneer's Daughter. A Yarn of the Eighteenth Century 25 
             
             
               TALES OF NEW YORK LIFE. 
               Caroline Tracy, the Milliner's Apprentice; or, Life in New York, among the Lofty and Lonely. Being the Romantic Adventures of a Young Girl in New York, during 1847 and '48 25 
               The Midnight Queen; or, Leaves from New York Life. By George Lippard, Esq 25 
               The Belle of the Bowery 25 
               Ellen Grant; or, Fashionable Life in New York 25 
               The Adventures of Clarence Bolton; or, Life in New York. By J. A. Scoville. 104 8vo. pp 25 
               The Orphan Seamstress. A Narrative of Innocence, Guilt, Mystery, and Crime 25 
               Eva May, or, the Foundling of the Secret Dungeon 25 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage. Send Cash orders to Dick & Fitzgerald, Publishers, N. Y. 
          
          
             
             
               The Finger-Post to Public Business. Containing the mode of forming and conducting Societies, Clubs, and other organized Associations; full Rules of Order for the government of their debates and business; complete directions how to compose resolutions, reports, and petitions; and the manner of managing Conventions, Public Meetings, Celebrations, Dinners, Barbecues, and Dinners; Models of Constitutions for Lyceums, Institutes, Military and Fire Companies, Agricultural. Horticultural, Numismatic, Medical, Musical, Religious, Beneficial, Fine Art, Debating, Historical, Mutual Improvement and Temperance Societies, Mutual Aid, Detective, Land, Building, Cemetery, Hall and Library Associations; Political, Chess, Draught, Cricket, Base Ball, Gymnastic, Golf, Curling, Quoit, Shinny, Racket, Yacht, Rowing, Hunting and Fishing Clubs; with rules of Cricket, Base Ball, Shinny, Quoits, Yachting, and Rowing, and instructions concerning incorporations. Hints about Libraries and Museums, with a Catalogue of desirable Books, and a list of American Coins; and rules for the collection and preservation of Books, Mss., and objects of curiosity. Rules for Debating, and the composition and delivery of Public Addresses, with examples of figures of speech, and a selection of specimens of style from various American orators. Together with an appendix, containing the original articles of confederation of the United States, the Constitution, the celebrated Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions, and other documents of reference. To which is prefixed a copious Index. By an Ex-Member of the Philadelphia Bar. 12 mo., cloth $1 00 
               Fontaine's Golden Wheel Dream-Book and Fortune-Teller By FELIX FONTAINE, Fortune-Teller and Astrologer. Being the most complete book on Fortune-Telling and Interpreting Dreams ever printed. The Interpretation of Dreams, as here explained, is as complete and perfect as could be made, as the results from dreams and visions calculated from certain inevitable rules of destiny which have been adopted by astrologers, both ancient and modern. Each Dream has the LUCKY NUMBER which the Dream signifies attached to it, and those who wish to purchase Lottery Tickets will do well to consult them. This book also informs you how to TELL FORTUNES with the Golden Wheel, with Cards, Dice, and Dominoes; how to tell future events by 
                     Psalmistry
                     Palmistry
                   on the lines of the hands, by moles on the body, by the face, nails, and shape of the head; how to find where to dig for water, coal, and all kinds of metals, with the celebrated DIVINING ROD; Charms to make your Sweetheart love you, to make your Lover pop the question, together with Twenty Ways of Telling Fortunes on New Year's Eve. This book contains 144 pages, and is bound in pasteboard sides with cloth back. It is illustrated with numerous Engravings, showing how to hold the Divining Rod, how to lay out Cards when you Tell Fortunes, how to tell the name of your intended Wife or Husband by the charm of the Key and Book, etc. This book also contains a large colored Lithographic Engraving of the Golden Wheel, which folds up. It is the cheapest on our list 25 
               Chesterfield's Letter-Writer and Complete Book of Etiquette; or, Concise Systematic Directions for Arranging and Writing Letters. Also, Model Correspondence in Friendship and Business, and a great variety of Modern Love Letters. If any lady or gentleman desires to know how to begin a Love Correspondence, this is just the book they want. If they wish to speak their minds to a tardy, a bashful, or a careless or indifferent lover, or sweetheart, this book tells exactly how it should be done. This work is also a Complete Book of Etiquette. You will find more real information in this book than in half-a-dozen volumes of the more expensive ones. It is emphatically a book for the million, and one which every young person should have, as it contains the Etiquette for Ladies, as well as for Gentlemen-Etiquette of Courtship and Marriage-Etiquette for writing Love Letters, and all that sort of thing. It is an appropriate book to present to a lady. This book contains 136 pages, and is bound in pasteboard sides, with cloth back 25 
               How to Mix Drinks. Containing Recipes for mixing American English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian drinks-such as Juleps, Punches, Cobblers, Slings, Cocktails, &c. By JERRY THOMAS, late bar-tender at the Metropolitan Hotel, New York, and Planters' House. St. Louis. To which is appended a Manual for the manufacture of Cordials, Liquors, Fancy Syrups, &c., containing Recipes after the most approved methods now used in the Distillation of Liquors and Beverages, designed for the special use of Manufacturers and Dealers in Wines and Spirits, Grocers, Tavern-Keepers, and Private Families-the same being adapted to the trade of the United States and Canadas. By Prof. CHRISTIAN SCHULTZ, Practical Chemist, and Manufacturer of Wines, Liquors, Cordials, &c., from Bern, Switzerland; the whole Work containing over 700 Valuable Recipes. A large book, bound in cloth $1 50 
               Le Marchand's Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book. A Complete interpretation to all questions upon the different events and situations of life; but more especially relating to Love, Courtship, and Marriage. Containing the significations of all the various Dreams, together with numerous other methods of foretelling future events. By MADAM LE MARCHAND, the celebrated Parisian Fortune-Teller 25 
               The Al-Ma-Kan-Tur Circle; or, How to Win a Sweetheart or Lover. Containing Facts and New Discoveries never before offered to the public. Being of the greatest importance to both Married and Single Persons, of both sexes. By M. L. BYRN, M. D., Graduate of the University of the City of New York 25 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United States free of postage. Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, 18 Ann St., N.Y. 
          
          
             
             
               New Books Very Recently Published. 
               
                  Barchester Towers. A new Novel. By ANTHONY TROLLOPE, author of "Framely Parsonage," "The Bertrams," "Doctor Thorne," "The Warden," etc. Two volumes, uniform with "The Warden." Paper covers, each 25
                  Two volumes bound in one, Cloth 75
                
               
                  The Warden. A Novel, By ANTHONY TROLLOPE. 288 pages 20
                  "All people who have read 'The Warden'-and if anybody has not read 'The Warden,' let us counsel them to make up for lost time as soon as may be-will know very well what is meant by the Daily Jupiter, and by Tom Towers."-Saturday Review.
                  
                
             
            THE ABOVE TWO NOVELS MAKE THE FIRST THREE NUMBERS OF THE HAND AND POCKET LIBRARY, And will be speedily followed by other first class works. The Publishers propose to issue this Library uniform with the TAUCHNITZ EDITION OF THE WORKS OF BRITISH AUTHORS, and while they promise that the paper, print, and binding shall in no particular be inferior to the TAUCHNITZ edition, they intend to issue each number of the Library complete within itself, at the low price of 25 cents. This will enable the reading public to obtain the best works of English fiction in a convenient and elegant form, at a price which will be within the reach of every one. 
             
               
                  Barren Honour. A Novel. By the author of "GUY LIVINGSTON," "The Sword and Gown," etc. Large octavo 50
                  "This is a tale of remarkable power. It displays a force of description, and a dramatic completedness, we have seldom seen surpassed; in fact, it is so full of incidents, so exciting in every page, that one hardly knows how to lay it down without reading to the last page. We ad remember how the first work of this author-'GUY LIVINGSTON'-fell upon the reading public like a bomb-shell, and was a complete success. 'Barren Honour' will sustain his well-earned reputation."-London Observer.
                  
                
               
                  The Royalist Daughters. By ALEXANDER DUMAS. Octavo 50
                  This book bears the unmistakable impress of being coined in the same mint that produced "Monte Cristo," and the "Three Guardsmen." The period chosen by the author is one of the most interesting in the history of modern France-when the Duchess de Berri (the only man, according to Napoleon, of the Bourbon family,) made her desperate attempt to overturn the throne of the Orleans dynasty. The twin daughters of the old royalist noble are two of the most interesting characters ever delineated; their wondrous beauty-their sad, early history-their intrepid style of dashing after the hounds-together with their solitary life in the ancient castle-invest them with every element of romantic interest. The book is rich in other marked characters, and incidents press on incidents with unceasing rapidity.
                
               The Old Judge; or, Life in a Colony. By JUDGE HALIBURTON. Author of "Sam Slick in Search of a Wife," "Sayings and Doings of Sam Slick, Clockmaker," etc. Octavo 50 
               The Comic English Grammar. Illustrated with over 45 Comic Engravings, by JOHN LEECH 25 
             
          
          
             
               Mrs. ELLEN WOOD'S Celebrated Novels. 
               
                  East Lynne; or, The Earl's Daughter. Large octavo. Paper 50
                  "This is a tale of remarkable power. It displays a force of description and a dramatic completedness which has seldom been surpassed. The interest of the narrative intensifies itself to the deepest pathos. The closing scene is in the highest degree tragic, and the whole story exhibits unquestionable genius and originality."-London Daily News.
                  
                
               
                  The Heir to Ashley. By the author of "East Lynne; or, The Earl's Daughter." Large octavo 50
                  "This is one of the best novels published for a season. The plot is interesting, intricate, and well carried out; the characters are life-like, and the writing simple and natural. There is nothing forced, nothing disjointed or unfinished about it; no discrepancies in the story."
                
               Castle Wafer; or, The Plain Gold Ring. By the author of "East Lynne; or, the Earl's Daughter." Largo octavo 50 
               Gervase Castonel; or, The Six Grey Powders. By the author of "East Lynne; or, The Earl's Daughter." Large octavo 50 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address, free of postage, upon receipt of the price. Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, 18 Ann St., N. Y. 
          
          
             
            List of DICK & FITZGERALD'S Publications. 
             
               NEW DIME SONG BOOKS. 
               The Singer's Favorite Songster, 10 
               Bob Hart's Plantation Songster, 10 
               Billy Birch's Ethiopian Songster, 10 
               The Little Mae Songster, 10 
               Touch the Elbow Songster, 10 
               Harrison's New Comic Song Book, 10 
               The Army and Navy Songster, 10 
               Tony Pastor's Comic and Eccentric Songster. 10 
               Tony Pastor's Union Songster, 10 
               The Shamrock; or, Songs of Old Ireland, 10 
               Harrison's Comic Songster, 10 
               The Camp-Fire Song-Book, 10 
               The Charley O Malley Irish Songster, 10 
               Fred May a Comic Irish Songster, 10 
               The Love and Sentimental Songster, 10 
               The Irish Bay and Yankee Girl Songster, 10 
               The Frisky Irish Songster, 10 
               Gus Shaw's Comic Song and Recitation Book, 10 
               Wood's Minstrel Song Book, 10 
               Wood's New Plantation Melodies, 10 
             
             
               MRS. ELLEN WOOD'S CELEBRATED NOVELS. 
               Mrs. Haliburton's Troubles, 50 
               East Lynne; or, The Earl's Daughter, 50 
               Castle Wafer; or, The Plain Gold Ring, 50 
               The Heir to Ashley, 50 
               Gervase Castonel; or, The Six Grey Powders, 50 
               Barren Honour, 50 
             
            Each of the above are also issued in cloth at 75 cents. 
             
               CAPTAIN JAMES GRANT'S NOVELS. 
               Frank Hilton, 50 
               Philip Rollo, 50 
               The Yellow Frigate, 50 
               Harry Ogilvie, 50 
               The Adventures of an Aid-de-Camp, 50 
             
             
               WILKIE COLLINS' NOVELS. 
               The Dead Secret, 50 
               Hide and Seek, 50 
               After Dark, 50 
             
             
               J. F. SMITH'S CELEBRATED WORKS. 
               Milly Moyne, 50 
               Philip Blandford, 50 
               Redmond O'Neil, 50 
               Prince Charles, 50 
               Alice Arran, 25 
               Dick Markham. 50 
               Lillian, 75 
               Harold Tracy, 50 
               Bella Trelawney, 50 
               Charles Vavasseur, 50 
               Henry De La Tour, 50 
               Dick Tarleton, 25 
               Marion Barnard, 50 
               Fred Graham, 50 
               Romantic Incidents in the Lives of the Queens of England, 1 00 
               The Virgin Queen, cloth, 50 
               Woman and Her Master, 50 
               Fred Vernon, 75 
               Harry Ashton, 50 
               Ellen De Vere, 50 
               Fred Arden, 50 
               Minnie Grey, 50 
               Gus Howard, 50 
               Rochester, 50 
               Temptation, 50 
               Amy Lawrence, 50 
               Stanfield Hall, 2 vols. 1 00 
             
             
               NOVELS BY SAMUEL LOVER. 
               Handy Andy, 50 
               Rory O'More, 50 
               Treasure Trove, 50 
               Tom Croshie, 50 
               Barney O Rierdon, 25 
               Legends and Stories of Ireland, 25 
               The Lyrics of Ireland, 1 25 
             
             
               MAXWELL'S NOVELS. 
               Hector O'Halloran, 2 vols., 1 00 
               Adventures of Captain Blake, 50 
               The Bivouac, 50 
               The Adventures of Mick Costigan, 50 
               The Matrimonial Misfortunes of Peter Clancy, 50 
             
             
               NOVELS BY ALEXANDER DUMAS. 
               The Royalist Daughters, 50 
               The Castle of Sonday, 50 
               Marguerite De Valois, 50 
               Diana De Poitiers, 2 vols., 1 00 
               Rosa Woodville, 50 
               The Young Chevalier, 50 
               The Count of Morian, 50 
               Woman's Love, 25 
               Paul Jones, 25 
             
             
               MISS EMELIE CARLEN'S NOVELS. 
               John, 25 
               Marie Louise, 25 
               Woman's Life, 50 
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS, BY GOOD AUTHORS. 
               Barren Honour. By the Author of Guy Livingston, 50 
               Henry Lyle. By Miss Marryatt, 1 00 
               Temper. By Miss Marryatt, 1 00 
               Tit for Tat, 1 00 
               Which; The Right or The Left, 1 25 
               A Poor Fellow, 1 25 
               Estelle Grant. 1 00 
               The Artist's Bride. By Emerson Bennett, 1 00 
               The Pilgrims of Walsingham. By Agnes Strickland, 1 00 
               Cyrilla. By the Author of the "Initials," 50 
               Craigallen Castle. By Mrs. Gore, 25 
               Gideon Giles, 50 
               Gabrielle; or, Pictures of the French Revolution, 50 
               Fair Rosamond, 50 
               Quinten Matsys. By Pierce Egan, Esq., 50 
               The Image of His Father, 25 
               Whom to Marry and How to Get Married, 25 
               Count Julien, 50 
               Dombev and Daughter, 25 
               Lady Glenlyon, 50 
             
             
               EUGENE SUE'S CELEBRATED NOVELS. 
               Matilda, two large volumes, 1 00 
               The Lovers of Paris, 50 
               The King of the Winds, 25 
               The French Fortune-Teller, 50 
               The Widow's Walk, 25 
               The Mysteries of the People, 50 
               Atar Gull, 25 
               The Adventures of Hercules Hardy, 25 
               Helene, 25 
             
             
               PROFESSOR INGRAHAM'S NOVELS. 
               Montezuma, 50 
               Grace Welden, 25 
               Paul Deverell, 25 
               The Pirates of the Shoals, 25 
               The Dancing Feather, 25 
               Josephine, 25 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address, free of postage, upon receipt of the price. Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, 18 Ann St., N. Y. 
             
             
               THE HAND AND POCKET LIBRARY. 
               The Warden. By Anthony Trollope, 25 
               Barchester Towers. " 2 vols. paper, 50 
               1 vol.cloth, 75 
             
             
               THE REASON WHY SERIES. 
               The Reason Why of General Science, 1 00 
               The Reason Why of Natural History, 1 00 
               The Biblical Reason Why, 1 00 
             
            NEARLY READY. 
            The Denominational Reason Why, 
            The Gardener's and Farmer's Reason Why, 
             
               USEFUL BOOKS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
               Inquire Within for Anything you Want to Know, 1 00 
               The Corner Cupboard; or, Facts for Everybody 1 00 
               The Perfect Gentleman, 1 00 
               10,000 Wonderful Things, 1 00 
               That's It; or, Plain Teaching. 1,200 Engravings, 1 00 
               Adventures in Africa, 1 00 
               The Ladies' own Pattern Book, 1 25 
               Every Woman Her Own Lawyer, 1 00 
               The Ladies' Manual of Fancy Work, 1 25 
               The Family Aquarium, 50 
               How to Talk and Debate, 12 
               The Chairman's and Speaker's Guide, 12 
               Knowlson's Farrier, 12 
               Rarey's Horse Taming, 12 
               Boxing Made Easy, 12 
               The American Home Cook Book, 25 
               Courtenay a 3,000 Abbreviations, 12 
               500 French Phrases, 12 
               The Ladies' Guide to Crochet, 75 
               Live and Learn; or, 1,000 Mistakes in Speaking and Writing, 50 
               Mind Your Stops, 12 
               Hard Words Made Easy, 12 
               How to Detect Adulteration, 12 
               How to Cut and Contrive Children's Clothes, 12 
               Young Housekeeper's Book, 12 
             
             
               BOOKS OF GAMES, &c., FOR HOME AMUSEMENT. 
               The Secret Out; or, 1,000 Tricks with Cards, 1 00 
               The Sociable; or 1,001 Amusements, 1 00 
               The Magician's Own Book, 1 00 
               Parlor Theatricals, 75 
               Book of 1,000 Tales, 1 00 
               The Art of Dancing, 1 00 
               The Game of Checkers, 38 
               Book of 500 Curious Puzzles, 25 
               Book of Fireside Games, 25 
               The Lady's Love Oracle, 25 
               Euchre, Whist. Loo, &c., 12 
               Herrmann's Handbook of Magic, 25 
               Anderson's Handbook of Magic, 25 
               100 Tricks with Cards, 25 
             
             
               BOOKS ON ETIQUETTE AND BEAUTY. 
               The Perfect Gentleman, 1 00 
               Chesterfield's Etiquette and Letter-Writer, 25 
               Etiquette. By H. P, Willis, paper, 10 
               " " " cloth, 25 
               The Art of Conversation, 25 
               The Young Bride's Book, 10 
               Laws of Love. 25 
               How to Win; or, Etiquette of Courtship, 12 
               Bridal Etiquette, 12 
               How to Behave, 12 
               Blunders in Behavior Corrected, 12 
               How to Dress with Taste, 12 
               Arts of Beauty. By Lola Montez, 50 
               Ladies' Guide to Beauty, 25 
             
             
               FORTUNE-TELLERS AND DREAM-BOOKS. 
               Fontaine's Golden Wheel Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book, 25 
               Pettingill's Perfect Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book, 25 
               Le Marchand's Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book, 25 
               Everlasting Fortune-Teller and Magnetic Dream-Book, 25 
             
             
               LETTER-WRITERS. 
               Chesterfield's Etiquette and Letter-Writer, 25 
               Chesterfield's Letter-Writing Simplified, 12 
             
             
               MASONIC BOOKS. 
               Morgan's Masonry, 25 
               Richardson's Masonic Monitor, cloth, 50 
               " " " paper, 30 
             
             
               BOOKS ON LOVE AND COURTSHIP. 
               Dictionary of Love, 1 00 
               Anecdotes of Love, 1 00 
               Ladies' Love Oracle, 25 
               Courtship Made Easy, 12 
               Laws of Love, 25 
               How to Woo and How to Win, 12 
               How to Win a Sweetheart or Lover, 25 
             
             
               BOOKS ON HEALTH. 
               Mother's Medical Adviser, 10 
               Physiology of Health, 10 
               How to be Healthy, 10 
             
             
               BOOKS ON WINES AND LIQUORS. 
               How to Mix Drinks, 800 Recipes, 1 50 
               Lacour on the Manufacture of Liquors, 1 50 
               Bar-Tender's Guide, 1 50 
               Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Dealer's Guide, 1 50 
             
             
               HUMOROUS BOOKS. 
               Harp of 1,000 Strings, 1 25 
               Dr. Valentine's Comic Lectures, cloth, 75 
               " " " " paper covers, 50 
               Dr. Valentine's Comic Metamorphosis, cloth, 75 
               paper covers, 50 
               Mrs. Partington's Carpet-Bag of Fun, cloth, 75 
               paper covers, 50 
               Book of 1,000 Comical Stories, 1 00 
               Courtship and Adventures of Jonathan Homebred, 1 00 
               The Plate of Chowder, 25 
               Comic English Grammar, 25 
               The Laughable Adventures of Brown, Jones and Robinson, 25 
               Laughing Gas, 25 
               Adventures of Oscar Shanghai, 25 
               Courtship of Chevalier Sly-Fox-Wykoff, 25 
               Charley White's Ethiopian Joke Book, 12 
               Black Wit and Darkey Conversations, 12 
               Chips from Uncle Sam's Jack-Knife, 25 
               Fox's Ethiopian Comicalities, 12 
               The Comical Adventures of David Dufficks, 25 
               Yale College Scrapes, 25 
               The Comic Wandering Jew, 25 
               Broad Grins of The Laughing Philosopher, 12 
             
             
               JUDGE HALIBURTON'S WORKS. 
               Sam Slick in Search of a Wife, 50 
               Sam Slick's Nature and Human Nature, 50 
               Sam Slick in England, 50 
               Sam Slick's Sayings and Doings, 50 
               Each of the above is also issued in cloth at 75 cents, 
               Old Judge, 50 
             
            Copies of the above books sent to any address, free of postage, upon receipt of the price. Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, 18 Ann St., N. Y. 
          
          
             
            New Dime Song Books 
            Tony Pastor's Comic & Eccentric Songster. Containing a choice Collection of Original, Comic and Eccentric Songs never before in print, together with Humorous Recitations, as sung and given by TONY PASTOR, the celebrated Clown, Stump Speaker, and Comic Vocalist. 
            Tony Pastor's Union Songster. Containing the celebrated song of "The Monitor and the Merrimack." and over 50 others never before published. Also, three Stump Speeches by TONY PASTOR. 
            The Shamrock; or, Songs of Old Ireland. A choice Collection of the Sentimental, Comic, Convivial. Patriotic, and Political Songs of Erin. 
            Harrison's Comic Songster. Being a Collection of Rare, Popular and Original Songs, as sung by HARRISON, the celebrated Improvisatore and Comic Vocalist, at the various Theatres and Concerts in the United States. 
            The Camp-Fire Song Book. A Collection of Jolly, Patriotic. Convivial, and National Songs, embracing all the popular Camp and Marching Songs, as sung by our army. 
            The Charley O'Malley Irish Songster. Containing the popular Irish Songs and Recitations, as sung and given by J. H. OGDEN, the celebrated Irish singer. 
            Fred May's Comic Irish Songster. Containing the most popular Irish Songs, as sung by J. H. OGDEN and FRED MAY. This book contains the words and music of the celebrated song, "I likes a drop of good beer." 
            The Love and Sentimental Songster. Containing a Choice Collection of Love and Sentimental Songs. 
            The Irish Boy and Yankee Girl Songster. Comprising the Original Songs, as sung by Mr. and Mrs. FLORENCE, the celebrated Vocalists and Performers, with unbounded applause, throughout the United States. Also, containing a number of popular copyright songs not to be found in any other book. 
            The Frisky Irish Songster. A Collection of Gay, Rollicking, Comic, and Eccentric Songs, as sung by FRED MAY, the celebrated Irish Vocalist. 
            Gus Shaw's Comic Song and Recitation Book. Being a Collection of new Comic Songs and Humorous Speeches, as sung and given at the principal theatres in the United States by GUS SHAW, the popular Comic Singer. 
            Wood's Minstrel Song Book. The best and cheapest Collection of Songs ever published. With numerous illustrations. Also, Funny Stories, Satirical Jokes, Quaint Sayings, Conundrums, Repartees, &c., as told by the celebrated E. HORN. 
            Wood's New Plantation Melodies. Containing "Jordan is a Hard Road to Travel," and Sixty-six other Songs and Comic Stories. Also, numerous new Conundrums, &c., as told by the celebrated E. HORN. 
            Copies of either of the above Song Books sent to any address, free of postage, upon receipt of TEN CENTS. Address all orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, Publishers, 18 Ann St., N.Y. 
          
          
             
            DICK & FITZGERALD'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 
             
               THE MATRIMONIAL MISFORTUNES OF PETER CLANCY. By W. H. MAXWELL, Author of "Hector O'Halloran," "The Bivouac," "The Adventures of Captain Blake," etc. price 50 
             
             
               Novels by Alexander Dumas. 
               
                  MARGUERITE DE VALOIS. An historical romance. Large Octavo. Paper, price 50
                  On the 24th day of August, 1572, the Massacre of St. Bartholomew began; and it is at this stirring period of French history, abounding in horrors and bloodshed, and in plots and intrigues, that M. Alexander Dumas commences Marguerite de Valois.
                
               DIANA DE POITIERS; or, The King's Mistress. By ALEXANDER DUMAS. Two large 8vo. vols price 1 00 
               ROSA WOODVILLE; or, The Jailer's Daughter. Translated by FAYETTE ROBINSON, Esq., price 50 
               THE YOUNG CHEVALIER; or, The Disputed Inheritance. Translated by THOMAS WILLIAMS, Esq., price 50 
               THE COUNT OF MORIAN; or, Women's Revenge. price 50 
               WOMAN'S LOVE; or, The Bridal Eve, price 25 
               PAUL JONES; or, The Son of the Sea. A Tale of the American Navy during the Revolution, price 25 
             
             
               Humorous Books. 
               
                  MRS. PARTINGTON'S CARPET-BAG OF FUN. Illustrated with over 150 of the most laughable engravings ever designed, from drawings by Darley, McLennan, Leach, Phiz, Henning, Hine, Tenniel, Crowquill, Cruikshank, Meadows, Doyle, Goder, and others, and a collection of over 1000 of the most comical stories, amusing adventures, side-splitting jokes, cheek-extending poetry, funny conundrums, QUEER SAYINGS OF MRS. PARTINGTON, heart-rending puns, witty repartees, etc., etc. The whole illustrated by about 150 comic wood-cuts. 12mo, 300 pages. Cloth, gilt, with tinted frontispiece by Darley, 75
                  Ornamented paper cover 50
                  This entertaining book is well printed on fine white paper, and contains 300 pages, with tinted frontispiece by Darley. Over 20,000 copies of this work have already been sold.
                
               
                  DASHES OF AMERICAN HUMOR. With numerous laughable illustrations, on tinted paper, from designs from John Leach. 320 pages, paper cover, 50
                  Cloth, gilt, 75
                  This work contains in its 320 pages, some thirty of the most amusing articles we have ever perused, redolent with not only humor, but with wisdom and pathos: the happiest days and most innocent recreations of our youth are here recalled.
                
               
                  DR. VALENTINE'S COMIC LECTURES. A budget of Wit and Humor; or, Morsels of Mirth for the Melancholy. A certain cure for the Blues, and all other serious complaints. Comprising Comic Lectures on Heads, Faces, Noses, Mouths, Animal Magnetism, etc., with Specimens of Eloquence, Transactions of Learned Societies, Delineations of Eccentric Characters, Comic Songs, etc., etc. By Dr. W. VALENTINE, the favorite delineator of Eccentric Characters. Illustrated with twelve portraits of Dr. Valentine, in his most celebrated Characters. 12mo. Cloth, gilt 75
                  Ornamental paper cover 50
                
               
                  DR. VALENTINE'S COMIC METAMORPHOSES. Being the second series of Dr. Valentine's Lectures, with characters as given by the late Yankee Hill. Embellished with numerous portraits. Ornamental paper cover 50
                  Cloth, gilt 75
                
               THE LAUGHABLE ADVENTURES OF MESSRS. BROWN, JONES, AND ROBINSON, showing where they went, and how they went; what they did and how they did it. With nearly 200 most thrillingly-comic engravings 25 
               LAUGHING GAS. An Encyclopedia of Wit, Wisdom and Wind. By SAM SLICK, JR. Comically illustrated with 100 original and laughable engravings, and near 500 side-extending jokes, and other things to get fat on; and the best of it is, that everything about the book is new and fresh-all new-new designs, new stories, new type-no comic almanac stuff. It will be found a complete antidote to "hard times." 25 
               THE COURTSHIP OF CHEVALIER SLY-FOX-WIKOFF, showing his heart-rending, astounding, and most wonderful love adventures with Fanny Elssler and Miss Gambol. Illustrated with 200 comic engravings 25 
               
                  THE EXTRAORDINARY AND MIRTH-PROVOKING ADVENTURES BY SEA AND LAND, OF OSCAR SHANGHAI. Illustrated by nearly 200 comic engravings 25
                  All told in a series of nearly two hundred of the most risible, quizzible, provoking, peculiar, saucy and spicy cuts ever gathered within the leaves of any one book. All fond of a hearty laugh, here is amusement for many a merry hour.
                
               CHARLEY WHITE'S ETHIOPIAN JOKE BOOK. Being a perfect Casket of Fun, the first and only work of the kind ever published. Containing a full expose of all the most laughable Jokes, Stories, Witticisms, &c., as told by the celebrated Ethiopian Comedian, Charles White. 18mo., 94 pages 12 
               BLACK WIT AND DARKEY CONVERSATIONS. By Charles White. Containing a large collection of Laughable Anecdotes, Jokes, Stories, Witticisms, and Darkey Conversations. 18mo. 12 
               CHIPS FROM UNCLE SAM'S JACK-KNIFE. Illustrated with over one hundred Comical Engravings, and comprising a collection of over 500 Laughable Stories, Funny Adventures, Comic Poetry, Queer Conundrums, Terrific Puns, Witty Sayings, Sublime Jokes, and Sentimental Sentences. The whole being a most perfect Portfolio for those who love to laugh. Large Octavo 25 
               THE COMICAL ADVENTURES OF DAVID DUFFICKS. Illustrated with over One Hundred Funny Engravings Large Octavo 25 
               
                  YALE COLLEGE SCRAPES; or, How the Boys Go It at New Haven 25
                  This is a book of 114 pages, containing accounts of all the noted and famous "Scrapes" and "Sprees," of which students at Old Yale have been guilty for the last quarter of a century.
                
               THE COMIC WANDERING JEW. Full of Fun, and containing 100 Humorous Engravings 25 
             
             
               Miscellaneous Books. 
               COURTSHIP MADE EASY; or, The Mysteries of Making Love Fully Explained. With Specimen Love Letters. Containing also a Treatise on the general qualifications necessary for Marriage, and the proper age and condition for Wedlock, &c., &c. By HARRY HAZEN, Jr., a widower who has been thrice married, but is still young enough to be an especial favorite of the ladies. price 12 
               THE LADIES' LOVE ORACLE; or, Counselor to the Fair Sex. Being a complete Fortune Teller and Interpreter to all questions upon the different events and situations of life, but more especially relating to all circumstances connected with Love, Courtship, and Marriage. By MADAM LE MARCHAND. Illustrated cover, printed in colors price 25 
               
                  CHESTERFIELD'S ART OF LETTER-WRITING SIMPLIFIED. A Guide to Friendly, Affectionate, Polite, and Business Correspondence 12
                  Containing a large collection of the most valuable information relative to the Art of Letter-Writing, with clear and complete instructions how to begin and end Correspondence, Rules for Punctuation and Spelling, &c., together with numerous examples of Letters and Notes on every subject of Epistolary intercourse, with several Important Hints on Love Letters.
                
               
                  THE LAWS OF LOVE. A complete Code of Gallantry. 12mo. Paper 25
                  Containing concise rules for the conduct of a courtship through its entire progress, aphorisms of love, rules for telling the characters and dispositions of women, remedies for love, and an Epistolary Code.
                
               
                  GAMBLERS' TRICKS WITH CARDS EXPOSED AND EXPLAINED. By J. H. GREEN, Reformed Gambler. 12mo, paper, price 25
                  This work contains one hundred tricks with cards, explained, and shows the numerous cheats which Gamblers practice upon their unwary dupes. The uninitiated will stare when they here see how easily they can be swindled by dealing, cutting, and shuffling cards.
                
               
                  THE EVERLASTING FORTUNE-TELLER, AND MAGNETIC DREAM BOOK. 25
                  Containing the science of foretelling events by the SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC, Lists of Lucky and Unlucky
                
             
            Any Book on our List will be sent to any address in the United States or Canada, free of postage 
            Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, No. 18 Ann Street, New York. 
             
             
               THE SECRET OUT, or One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and Other Recreations. Illustrated with over three hundred engravings, and containing clear and comprehensive explanations how to perform with ease all the curious Card Deceptions and Sleight-of-Hand Tricks extant. With an endless variety of entertaining experiments in Drawing Room or White Magic, including the celebrated science of Second-Sight. Together with a choice collection of intricate and puzzling questions, amusements in chance, natural magic, etc., etc. By the author of "The Sociable," "The Magician's Own Book," "Parlor Theatricals," etc., etc. Large 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back, price $1 00 
               
                  THE CORNER CUPBOARD, or Facts for Everybody. B, the author of "Inquire Within." "The Reason Why," etc. Illustrated with over one thousand engravings. Large 12mo, 400 pages, gilt side and back, price 1 00
                  Embracing Facts about:-I. Things not generally known. II. Things that ought to be known. III. Things worth knowing. THE CORNER CUPBOARD is a complete practical Confectioner-a complete practical Cook-a complete Family Doctor-a complete practical Gardener-a complete father's book-a complete mother's book-a complete lady's book-a complete gentleman's book-a complete boy's book-a complete girl's book-a complete master's book-a complete servant's book-a complete family book.
                
               
                  THE BIBLICAL REASON WHY: A Hand-Book for Biblical Students, and a Guide to Family Scripture Readings. Beautifully illustrated. Large 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back, price 1 00
                  This Work gives Reasons, founded upon the Bible, and assigned by the most eminent Divines and Christian Philosophers, for the great and all absorbing events recorded in the History of the Bible, the Life of Our Saviour, and the Acts of his Apostles.
                
               10,000 WONDERFUL THINGS. Comprising the Marvelous and Rare, Odd, Curious, Quaint, Eccentric and Extraordinary, in all Ages and Nations, in Art, Nature and Science, including many Wonders of the World. Enriched with hundreds of authentic illustrations. Edited by EDMUND FILLINGHAM KING, M. A., author of "Life of Newton," etc., etc. 12mo, cloth, gut side and back, price 1 00 
               PARLOR THEATRICALS, or Winter Evenings' Entertainment. Containing Acting Proverbs, Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or Drawing-room Pantomimes, Musical Burlesques, Tableaux Vivants, etc. By the author of "The Sociable," "Magician's Own Book," "The Secret Out," etc. Illustrated with descriptive engravings and diagrams. 12mo, gilt side and back, price 75 
               NARRATIVES AND ADVENTURES OF TRAVELERS IN AFRICA. Illustrated with numerous fine engravings, and containing a Map of Africa, on which the Routes of Dr. Livingstone and Dr. Barth are accurately traced. Large 12mo, gilt back, price 1 00 
               THAT'S IT, or Plain Teaching. By the author of "Inquire Within," "The Reason Why," "The Corner Cupboard," "Live and Learn," "The Biblical Reason Why," etc. Illustrated with over 1,200 wood cuts. 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back, price 1 00 
               
                  THE HARP OF A THOUSAND STRINGS, or Laughter for a Life-Time. Illustrated with 200 comic engravings. Large 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back stamp, nearly 400 pages, price 1 25
                  And being a large collection of Humorous Stories, Funny Poetry, etc., etc., konceived, kompiled, and komically konkokted, by SPAVERY; aided, added and abetted by over 200 ous Kuts, from original designs karefully drawn out by McLenan, Hoppin. Darley, Hennessey, Bell Green, Howard, &c., to say nothing of Leach, Phiz , Cruikshank, Meadows, Hine, and others.
                
               
                  1,000 COMICAL STORIES, or Endless Repast of Fun. By the author of "Mrs. Partington's Carpet-Bag of Fun." Appropriately illustrated with 300 comic engravings. Large 12mo. cloth, price 1 00
                  WITH A BILL OF FARE comprising Tales of Humor, Laughable Anecdotes, Irresistible Drolleries, Jovial Jokes, Comical Conceits, Puns and Pickings, Quibbles and Queries. Ben Mots and Broadgrins, Oddities, Epigrams, etc., etc.; Merry Songs for merry moments; Conundrums for the million; an inexhaustible store of Nuts to Crack, and Sports and Pastimes for all seasons; forming a Welcome Guest for spring, a Cheerful Friend for summer, a Jovial Host for autumn, a Pleasant Companion for winter, and a varied Feast of Mirth for everybody's enjoyment.
                
               THE COURTSHIP AND ADVENTURES OF JONATHAN HOMEBRED, or the Scrapes and Escapes of a Live Yankee. 12mo, cloth, price $1 00 
               
                  THE BOOK OF FIRESIDE GAMES: A Repertory of Social Amusements. By the author of "The Sociable," "The Secret Out," etc. Beautifully illustrated. 12mo, fancy paper cover, price 25
                  Containing an explanation of the most entertaining Games, suited to the family circle as a recreation, such as: games of action, games which merely require attention, games which require memory; catch games, which have for their object, tricks or mystification; games in which an opportunity is afforded to display gallantry, wit, or some slight knowledge of certain sciences; amusing forfeits, fireside games for winter evening 
                        amuement
                        amusement
                     , etc.
                
               
                  HOW TO TALK AND DEBATE, and How to Make a Speech, without the Sacrifice of Elegance and Sense. A hand-book of Conversation and Debate price 13
                  This book should be in the hands of every young man who desires to make a Speech, or Debate.
                
               THE BOOK OF 500 CURIOUS PUZZLES. Containing a large collection of Entertaining Paradoxes. Perplexing Deceptions in Numbers, and Amusing Tricks in Geometry. By the author of "The Sociable," "The Secret Out," 'The Magician's Own Book,' "Parlor Games" and "Parlor Theatricals." Illustrated with a great variety 
                     of of
                     of
                   engravings. 12mo, fancy paper cover, price 25 
               
                  SAM SLICK IN SEARCH OF A WIFE. 12mo, Paper, 50 cents. Cloth, price 75
                  Everybody has heard of "Sam Slick the Clockmaker," and he has given his opinion on almost everything. This book contains his opinion about "Courtin' the Gals!" and his laughable adventures after the petticoats. Buy this book if you want many good hearty laughs. There is a book called "The Horse" and another "The Cow," and "The Dog," and so on; why shouldn't there be one on "The Gals?" They are about the most difficult to choose and to manage of any created critter, and there aint any dependable directions about pickin' and choosin' of them. Is it any wonder, then, so many fellows get taken in when they go for to swap hearts with them?
                
               SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE. Large 12mo, paper, 50 cents. Cloth, price 75 
               THE ATTACHE, or Sam Slick in England. Large 12mo, paper, 50 cents. Cloth, price 75 
               
                  SAM SLICK'S SAYINGS AND DOINGS. Paper, 50 cents. Cloth, price 75
                  This is a most amusing and witty collection of the Opinions, Sayings, and Doings of the famous Sam Slick, that has ever been published. It gives the experiences of the Yankee Clockmaker, and the incidents that occurred in his journeyings over the world, together with his observations on men and things in general: also containing his Opinions on Matrimony.
                
               KIRK'S EXPOSITION OF ODD-FELLOWSHIP Including the Secret Signs, Pas. words, and Charges of the Five Degrees, as practiced by the Order in the United States. By JOHN KIRK, an Expelled Member of Manhattan Lodge, No. 36. Illustrated with thirty-six Engravings, price 15 
               MORGAN'S FREEMASONRY EXPOSED AND EXPLAINED. Showing the Origin, History, and nature of Masonry; its Effects on the Government and the Christian Religion; and containing a Key to all the Degrees of Freemasonry; giving a clear and correct view of the Manner of Conferring the Different Degrees, as practiced in all Lodges throughout the Globe, price 25 
               BOXING MADE EASY, or The Complete Manual of Self-Defence. Clearly Explained and Illustrated in a Series of Easy Lessons, with some important Hints to Wrestlers price 13 
               HOW TO WIN AND HOW TO WOO: Containing Rules for the Etiquette of Courtship, with directions showing how to win the favor of Ladies, how to begin and end a Courtship, and how Love Letters should be written price 13 
               HOW TO BEHAVE, or The Spirit of Etiquette: A complete Guide to Polite Society, for Ladies and Gentlemen; containing Rules for good behavior at the dinner table, in the parlor, and in the street, with important hints on introduction, and the art of conversation price 13 
             
            Copies of either of the above books sent to any address in the United States or Canada, free of postage. 
            Send Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, No. 18 Ann Street, New York. 
          
       
   
