
    ----CITATION----
        Cher, Henry W. B.. Gnaw-wood, or, New England Life in a Village .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6035 wright2-0509
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               GNAW-WOOD;
               OR NEW ENGLAND LIFE IN A VILLAGE.
            
            BY HENRY W. B. CHER.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               THE NATIONAL NEWS COMPANY, 21 & 28 ANN STREET.
            
            1868
            Entered According to Act of Congress in the Year 1868 by D. Ottolengui,, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.
         
         
            
            ISAAC MIX & SON, Carriage Manufacturers
            598 Broadway, N. Y.
            Fine Carriages and Harness AT REDUCED PRICES.
            
               
            
         
         
            Charts Furnished Gratis.
            FROST, BLACK & CO.,
            WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN, AND MANUFACTURERS OF FURNITURE Of Every Variety.
            No. 73 BOWERY, NEAR CANAL STREET, New York.
            Steamboats, Hotels and Public Buildings FURNISHED AT THE SHORTEST NOTICE.
            All Goods, Purchased at our House Guaranteed as Represented.
         
         
            MEN'S FURNISHING GOODS AT Half Broadway Prices!
            The Celebrated Sea Island Shirts.
            READY MADE AND TO ORDER.
            ALLEN G. FOWLER, No. 3 Park Row, Opposite the Astor House.
         
         
            PREFACE.
            Before the civil war, I used to contribute articles to the New York Sledger for pay. During the war I wrote very little because I found that it did not pay much, as fighting was above par, and writing at a discount. After a while I stopped altogether. When the War ended I began again. This is the reason why I began, viz:
            I received a note from Mr. Bonheur proprietor of Dexter and also of the New York Sledger. Mr. Bonheur proposed that I should write a story. If he had suggested that I should build an Iron Clad, or carve a statue of his friend Commodore Vanderbilt, I would have done it, although I know nothing about either business. So as he told me to write a story, I of course made up my mind to do so, at once. And did so at once.
            I do not pretend to write as well as Wordsworth, or Tupper, or Crabbe, or Augustin Daily, or Artemus Ward, or Dickens, or Fanny Fern, nevertheless I'm some on a story, as well as on a sermon, at least Bonheur think so, he likes my style, "he pays his money and takes his choice."
            If I had let myself out, my story would have been so interesting that people would have read it through at a sitting; to prevent this I let is come out once a week in the Sledger and endeavored to make it as uninteresting as possible. It was my desire that when my book came out people should read it through slowly, and take it up at times to refer to again, therefore I made but little plot to speak of or not to speak of, and introduced a great number of characters who have nothing at all to do with what little plot there is. The reader is therefore induced to re-peruse the book in order to find out why these characters were introduced, and thus my object is attained. There is a certain largeness of moral feeling about the story, and a corresponding largeness of size about the book itself considering the smallness of the plot. I wrote this story in the summer, my previous contributions to the Sledger were considered some; this effort is some-er. I call Gnawwood a "summer child." I am the child's father.
            Gnawwood covered a large quantity of manuscript. When I had finished writing the last line of the last chapter. I wrote a note to Bonheur. The note is almost as good as the book itself. It ran thus:
            
               
                  My Dear Mr. Bonheur.
               
               Gnawwood is finished. I have done writing it When I began it I was sorry. Now that it is finished I am glad. As I wish to advertise my father, as well as you and myself and Gnawwood, and at the same time to puff my sermons. I propose to relate an anecdote. The anecdote is funny.
               One day when I had spread myself more than usual, my dear old father was trotting along home from church, when an old lady complimented me on my sermon. My dear old father was conceited enough to claim the compliment for himself, for said he, had it not been for me, there would have been no Henry Warred, and had there not been any Henry Warred, you could not have heard this sermon. This story is exceedingly funny, but to make it more facetious still, I would call your attention to the moral. The moral is that Gnawwood is my sermon. I mean my child—my summer child, and you are my father, and Gnawwood's grandfather.
               Therefore if anybody should be fool enough to like Gnawwood, you can poke him with your finger and remark. "Bully for you, if it had not been for me, you never would have had my grand-child."
               This is the end of the letter.
               Now I begin to talk again in the preface. No one can imagine how true is the last paragraph of the letter I wrote to Bonheur. I regard him as the best friend I have in the world. I love him like a brother. This is the end of the preface.
            
         
         
            
            INTRODUCTION.
            Since the introduction of railways, a very large number of travellers go to New England every summer. Many of them visit the cities only, and therefore learn nothing about New England character. This is because the city folks have no character at all. The country people have character, and characters too, for I have introduced the latter into the story of Gnawwood. Let me introduce the reader into the village of Gnawwood. I have introduced the word introduce so often here, because this is the introductory chapter of the book.
            Look with my eyes dear reader upon Gnawwood. Don't look with your own eyes or you may not like it quite so well. It is in Massachusetts, and has five thousand inhabitants. These inhabitants are divided into three classes, there being one thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds in each class. The first class is higher than the middle; the middle is lower than the first and higher than the third, and the third class is low down and of no account.
            Gnawwood is so called, because this was the place where wooden nutmegs were invented. The people who bought these nutmegs, found that they were sold and had to gnaw wood.
            
            Gnawwood has streets. It also has a Main street. There are Elm trees in Gnawwood. Gnawwood, or Conway, or Lancaster without Elms, would be like Christmas without egg-nog. Hadly without Elms, would be Hamlet with the part of the Dane omitted. Hatfield or Northampton without Elms would be horrible. Springfield without Elms would be a failure. New Haven without them would be as great a humbug, as Jupiter without his mustache and beard. Oh glorious Elms! grand Elms!! 
                  magestic
                  majestic
                Elms!!! beautiful Elms!!!! graceful Elms!!!!! wide spreading Elms!!!!!! tall Elms!!!!! handsome Elms. "Oh magnificent vegetable of the Temperate Zone."
            Oh Elms! Elms!! Elms!!! Elms!!!!
            Oh Elm-trees! Elm-trees!! Elm-trees!!! Elm-trees!!!!
            Let us now enter Gnawwood through an avenue of Elms.
            Elms! Elms!! Elms!!! Elms!!!! Elms!!!!!
         
      
      
         
            Gnaw-wood, or, New England life in a village
            
               FIRST PART OF GNAWWOOD.
               BEFORE THE WAR.
               The first character in Gnawwood that I am going to present to the reader is Cathwagon. His first name is Aby. Aby was a farmer, but if you had seen him on a bench, any kind of bench, you would have pronounced him "every inch a judge." His parents left him no money, but that mattered not, because he had never at any time in his boyhood had more than four dollars and seventy-five cents in his pocket. He never saw a five dollar bill in his youthful days. Nevertheless when he was eighteen, he bought his time from the old man for two hundred dollars cash up and no credit. He was six feet in his socks, carried his father's blessing out into the world with him and wore a bran new suit of clothes.
               Cathwagon drove a team of mules and was a horse trader. He loved horses and mules. People tried in vain to buy his team, but he would not sell. He fed them on Indian corn and other things.
               He cleared two hundred a year for five years and then courted Rachel Loosecomb. Rachel was her father's daughter and her father was a Deacon. She had a sneaking kind of fancy for Cathwagon. And he for her. One day as they were walking home from Church, he made up his mind to pop the question to Rachel. So he pulled a flower from between the pickets of a fence, broke it to pieces, blushed, and was confused. He asked Rachel how she liked the sermon. She remarked that she liked it, especially the text. He then asked her to marry him, and she said she would. Then both were silent. Neither party knew what to say. Cathwagon grew nearsighted "he saw neither the trees nor the long rays of sunlight that were slanting across the fields." He felt solemn. He remarked "Rachel, this is for ever"—then he repeated "forever" and said no more. Rachel said nothing at all. They were engaged to be married. Cathwagon was a "different man"—he was not himself—he was some one else altogether. Cathwagon married Rachel. They had several children that we have nothing to do with, and two that we will have a good deal to do with in Gnawwood. One was a boy and the other a girl. The boy was named Barton, the girl Alice.
               Old Ebenezer Wentforth lived in Gnawwood. People called him Uncle Eb. He was a religious man and went to meeting regularly. He could talk like a book on theology, and bothered all of the parsons in Gnawwood. He was so honest that any man would think it a pleasure to die just for the sake of making Uncle Eb executor of his estate. He had a son named Ruben. Says he to his son one day "Reub old fellow guess what I want you to be."
               "A lawyer" says Reub.
               "Nary time," says the old man.
               "A gold broker."
               "No! guess again."
               "A segar store man."
               "Not much."
               "A Parson."
               "Try it on once more."
               "A schoolmaster."
               "Don't make enough money, only fit for a woman. No old boy I want you to be a Doctor."
               So Reuben was an M.D., and he took unto himself a better half; and you may bet a half he had children. The first child was a girl and they called her Rose.
               Rose Wentforth is the female hero of Gnawwood. Rose Wentforth was born under a cloud, that is to say under several clouds. She made her entrance upon the stage of life to the tuneful accompaniment of a clap of thunder, and was a thundering girl, especially when she joined the army as a nurse. But I anticipate. When the thunder clap sounded Dr. Wentforth "bared his head as if he heard some message." When it was over he put his hat on again as if he was going out to mail an answer. Mother Taft was in the house when the baby was born. She was a kind of amateur midwife, and a religious woman. The Gnawwood people were all religious, and used to go to church to hear the sermon and talk scandal. They made spiteful remarks about Dr. Wentforth's wife, and called her old and ugly, and envied her rings and called her proud. When church let out they curried favor with her and promised to call, and all that sort of thing. Judge Pork went to church in Gnawwood. So did the Miss Marshes who were old maids; so did Mr. Nedwards and his sister, and a great many other people. Hiram Lager used to stand at the church door, and devil all the young girls.
               Deacon Brownstone was a Gnawwoodite and had a wife named Molly. He had a housekeeper named Agate Bustle. Agate was economical. She could buy a shillings worth of anything for a cent. Brownstone's wife was a curious woman. She never laughed in her life. She went once to see Mark Smith in one of his funniest characters and wept copiously the whole time. She attended prayer meetings as regular as clock work. Uncle Tommy Taft drank liquor, and got very drunk sometimes. He had one leg and was proud of the one he didn't have. It was made out of wood, and he thought it funny to call it "Old Smasher." It was not funny. Hiram Lager used to poke fun at old Taft and called him "Dot-and-Go-One"—this was not funny either.
               Tommy got talking philosophy one day to Agate Bustle, but Miss B——chawed him by telling him that he ought to have died when he was small. Then he felt small; but he didn't die.
               Parson Gruel used to talk religion with Dr. Wentforth. In the first edition of my book I headed the part with this talk in it "A Sober Chapter" but some people found it too sober and dry. So I'll leave it out. It had fine talk in it on both sides, almost as good as my sermons.
               If Agate Bustle had been born any where else but in New England, could she have been called Agate? If so why not? This is a conundrum. She was a stern woman, whose father died from the effects of hard drinking when she was thirteen years old. She was savagely religious and meddled with Rose Wentforth's bringing up in a very impudent and busy body style.
               Pete Lumbermill is one of the low comic characters in Gnawwood. He deserves to have a carte de visite to himself. He was six feet high and wore "Stockings" instead of socks. He was called Lumbermill on account of a stupid remark he made one day when some one told him a funny story about a lumber mill that cut off a bears tail. Pete said that he could "go through the mill and come out hunkydory bringing his tail behind him" and so forth. He could chop wood better than good Old Abe Lincoln himself. He caught a trout once with a mouse for bait—the trout smelt a mice but was caught nevertheless.
               But its time to have some plot. I want to begin the story. Several years have passed. Rose Wentforth has grown up. Her brother Arthur has been born and has grown up too. Barton Cathwagon is a man. Alice Cathwagon is a woman.
               They all live in Gnawwood still.
               
               I am going to begin directly. I wish to spread myself first on a description of a New England Sunday.
               A New England Sunday is a big thing. It can give any other Sunday fifty points in the game and beat it all to smash. A Sunday in New York isn't a circumstance to a Gnawwood Sunday. Brooklyn comes nearer the mark but does not hit it in the bull's eye.
               In Gnawwood on Sunday the sawmills stop working, the carpenters are idle, the blacksmiths knock off. Crows "caw" and other crows caw—caw in response. The bobolinks sing hymns and all the birds join in. The sun comes out and shines with extra brilliancy, the hens cackle Hallelujah and roosters crow in psalm-tunes. All of the Gnawwoodites go to church. When brother Wentforth was a little boy and his papa asked him "what is God" he gave a funny answer, but now he has grown up and knows better. On Sundays the Wentforths and the Cathwagons used to call on each other and talk church. All of them were religious.
               Let us return to our mutton. As I have before remarked it is time to have some plot.
               An Important event was now about to happen. I must beg the reader not to get too much excited over it. It created the wildest kind of a sensation in the two families—the Wentforths and the Cathwagons—and it was talked over so much that every body began to grow disgusted with it.
               Barton Cathwagon announced to his mother one day the startling intelligence, that he wanted to go to college. Don't get excited dear reader—take it easy. He announced it boldly in a calm and steady voice. His mother was thunderstruck. She said "God's will be done" as if her son had proposed to keep a faro bank, and it could not be helped.
               Then she paused—and then he paused. She then poked the fire and remarked that she would consult the old man. The old man consented—and Barton was first sent to school to a Mr. Nedwards.
               Mr. Nedwards "was tall, thin, with a large gray eye (only one eye) which was mild in repose, but kindled like an eagle's under excitement: HIS FACE WAS WHITE" I mean to say that Nedwards was not a nigger.
               The time came for Barton to go to college, he had progressed well under the tuition of the White Faced Man. Was Rose Wentforth glad or sorry that Barton was going to college? She was glad. Did she love Barton? It would spoil the plot to tell this yet. Did Barton love her? Yes he did. This is the beginning of the plot of Gnawwood.
               As it will not do to have too much exciting plot all at once, I'll write a chapter now on mental philosophy which is "to be read or skipped." On second thoughts however I believe I'll skip it myself, and drive ahead with my interesting story.
               Barton Cathwagon went to college. He carried with him his father's blessing, his mothers heart, a trunk of clothes, a prayer book a hat box and some small change. Before he left Gnawwood he had as good a chance to pop the question to Rose Wentforth as any man could wish for. But he spoke in enigmas and made a fool of himself generally. He began by hinting that he had an important matter to speak about; then he added that he left her with God, and so went off leaving her in a disgusting state of uncertainty as to his real sentiments. In Gnawwood, religion is mixed up with everything, even with courting—the last named article is not improved by the mixing. He saw Rose once again after this interview, and although she played the piano for him—he did not come up to the scratch. She played one of Beethoven's pieces and the "Sabre de Mon Pere" from La Grande Duchesse, but still it was no go. So she shut up the piano in disgust.
               Cathwagon swore that "he would be true to his duty" (but he did not say how) and "be a man and accomplish something"—he neglected to state what "So help him God."
               Barton went to college and Frank Weasel comes upon the scene. The plot thickens and its perhaps time that it should.
               Frank Weasel was a painter from Boston. He came to Gnawwood and fell in love with Rose Wentforth right off and then wrote a letter to his mother as follows—thus—
               "My dearest mother, I am a hero. People here praise me so that I am half crazy with conceit. It happened thus. A horse ran away with a buggy. In the buggy was the She-roe of my tale. Her name is Rose. The horse kept running, but I grabbed the reins and brought him up short. A man named Hiram Ale or Hiram Lager or something of the sort snatched Rose out of the buggy. Her father is a doctor with a "grand head." I want to paint it. Her mother is a nice woman. They both prayed and then invited me to the house. I'm hunkydory, and as happy as a clam at high water. I wish you were In Gnawwood. I shall write you every day "postage no consideration."
               
               This was Frank's first letter. In the next he informed his mother that he had made a discovery. The discovery was that Rose was his ninety-fourth cousin. Then he wrote some more letters—then more again.
               In one of these letters, he hints, that he is in love with Rose and that he drinks liquor. For says he "I am strangely affected by Miss Rose as by no other person in the world. She sobers me."
               While Frank Weasel was having a gay old time with the ladies, and assisting them in getting the tea things ready for a big eat, and whilst Barton Cathwagon was in college studying his Greek for the next morning's recitation, Parson Gruel, Judge Pork, Mr. Nedwards and Mr. Brett, all Gnawwoodites and all religious, were lying under a great Elm, Elm, Elm, talking about "enjoying money." Pork opened fire by accusing Brett of being mean. Brett was such a nervous man that his whole body talked as well as his mouth—he had a bad case of St. Vitus' Dance. He defended his meanness and claimed to be charitable. Then Gruel dipped in and went on Brett's side. Then Brett said it was not religious to indulge in luxuries. Then they all talked real Gnawwoodite talk, a mixture of religion and philosophy, with money matters thrown into the dish to season it.
               When Frank Weasel returned home, Lewis Heswip a friend of his who had long hair and smoked incessantly, poked fun at him about the change that had come over him and asked him what was up. He did not acknowledge the corn and own that he was in love. He got tired of painting and wanted to join the theatre. His mother smelt a mouse. And was in favor of the match. He went back to Gnawwood and the old lady went along with him this trip.
               Barton Cathwagon was going to graduate, he was coming home. The plot thickens more and more. When Barton made his speech at the college commencement, Tommy Taft applauded so loudly with his foot that it's a wonder he was not put out. Rachel was there too—Cathwagon's mamma. When Barton rose she thought it a vision. Was this her own son, was this the baby that she had brought forth. Was this the child that she had washed and dressed and spanked so often. Was this the dirty faced little boy that used to work in the farm at Gnawwood, Oh no it could not be. Of course not. By no means. And yet; hold it was. Tis he, aye 'tis he, my noble dirty-faced boy. His voice however "sounded strange in her ears, she did not recognize it." "She scarcely heard what he said" she grew hard of hearing not to say downright deaf. Barton delivered the valedictory and the entire audience shed tears. After the show was over and the commencement had ended, people congratulated Barton, also his father and mother, and they were all proud and thankful.
               
               Dr. Gruel's wife was sick. She got worse—then worse still, and she died. On the day she pegged off, her husband asked Rose Wentworth, "Is she worse."
               Rose replied "No she is better."
               This was the Gnawwood and religious style of saying she had kicked the bucket, and Dr. Gruel who was posted in this kind of talk understood it readily. So he said "God help me." and God helped him. Nevertheless he did a foolish thing, in fact one that bordered on insanity. After his wife was as dead as a door nail, he remarked "Eliza; speak, just one word; speak, oh, my wife." But she spake not, she couldn't do it. She was dead.
               What was the "one word" her husband wanted her to speak? This is another conundrum. Let us draw a curtain here.
               Tommy Taft remarked that the death of Mrs. Gruel was a greater loss to her husband in particular than to Gnawwood in general. No doubt it was.
               Barton Cathwagon had religion on the brain, and love on the brain at the same time, and between the two he got obfuscated and sentimental, so much so as to excite serious apprehensions in the minds of Gruel, Wentforth and the entire crowd of old fogies. He wrote stupid letters to himself in the form of a journal, and full of the two brain diseases he suffered from. In a letter to himself dated August 1st, he states that a 
                     Southener
                     Southerner
                   named Tom Strawwood is coming to Gnawwood.
               Enter Tom Strawwood.
               Again the plot thickens. Exceedingly.
               Thomas Strawwood hailed from the South of Mason & Dixon's line, and he had a mother who lived there. His aunt being out in Gnawwood, and Tom had come on a visit to said aunt. His mother and his aunt, who was her sister, loved each other a great deal. Tom was rich and healthy and had a good mind, his head strange to say was not turned by "the society of cultivated tivated people," and stood quite well upon his shoulders. He was not proud although he was one of the F. F. V's. He liked Gnawwood. At first he put up at the Mansion House, but afterwards bunked at his aunt's probably to save board. Tom had a brother named Hal, and being touched with cacoethes scribindi used to write as many letters to him as Frank Weasel wrote to his mother. In his first letter to Hal he remarked "the nasal twang I am practising." He soon learned to speak through his nose and to say "apple sass" like the Yankees. In his second letter he remarked that he liked Hiram Lager and that there was not a man like Hiram in Virginia. He wanted to buy a horse, and offered Lager twenty dollars to find a good one for him. Hiram laughed not in his sleeve but "down in his belly" and thought him green. Strawwood was pleased with Alice Cathwagon and Rose Wentforth, but I'm not going to let him marry either one, because he hails from Virginia. Tom used to talk politics, he said "it will be a terrible day for our country if the North and South should go to arms." He was about right.
               Josiah Tallowchandler, Tom's uncle, lived in Gnawwood and was rich. He hasn't much to do with the plot of Gnawwood, but I may as well mention him anyhow. He had a mission. His mission was to make money and keep it. He made it and kept it. He never speculated in Gold or Petroleum yet he grew rich. He had a library and liked old books, perhaps because they came cheaper than new ones. I'm tired of Tallowchandler. Let's leave him in his library, he wants to read.
               Some plot is coming now. A love scene.
               Frank Weasel had made up his mind to pop the question to Rose Wentforth, but she wouldn't let him. One day as they were seated on a sofa, Frank was just on the point of letting himself out when Rose remarked. "Don't say it Frank, its no use old fellow, I only love you like a brother, only this and nothing more." Then "Rose's voice trembled and her face was suffused with blushes." She looked Weasel square in the eyes, and he saw that it was no go. He however remarked "One word Miss Wentforh" and then she found fault with him for saying "Miss," "Why" said he, "you don't want me say Mister do you." "Not much I don't" she replied, "try Cousin Rose." And he tried "Cousin Rose," but was down in the mouth, for he was a kicked man anyway you can fix it.
               Then there came a storm, and Frank went up to his room and sat by an open window in his night shirt. He didn't mind catching a cold. Oh no, not he. He rather would have preferred an attack of pneumonia than otherwise. "A chill crept over him" however, and he put on a cloak, "but he was no warmer," and so he did the most sensible thing he could do and what he should have done at the jump, viz, "he shut the window and retired to his bed." He had a livery stable full of nightmares and was sick all of the next day. Nevertheless he was not a "broken man," he was only cracked a little and he was never so strong as now, he could hold out two bags of shot at arms length.
               
               Tom Strawwood's aunt, Mrs. Chandler wanted Tom to marry Rose Wentforth, and tried to make up a match. She said she was no match maker, but she lied. She pumped Tom one day to find out if he was engaged to anybody in Virginia. He said that he was not engaged, and remarked to his aunt in a very conceited manner that if he said snip to Rose Wentforth she would say snap. He soon found out his mistake. Rose rather fancied Barton Cathwagon, and neither Tom Strawwood nor Frank Weasel stood a ghost of a chance. Frank Weasel packed up his traps and went home. One day they all went out on a nutting expedition, and Tom Strawwood fell into a pool of water, he was only in the pool a moment, but Rose Wentforth thought it "an age," nevertheless she did not love Tom. Alice Cathwagon did, and fainted. Tom did not love Alice.
               Strawwood was carried into the "blue room" and he felt blue and wet. He got better. One day whilst he was sick, Alice Cathwagon sat by his bed. He was asleep. "Surely he moved" remarked Alice
               "No he didn't, his eyes are shut." A few days after this, he and Alice had a talk. The most curious thing was that he remembered all about the nutting, but nothing more.
               "Alice, were you there when I pitched into the mud puddle?"
               "I was."
               "Was I climbing?"
               "You were."
               "Was Rose climbing?"
               "Why, no!"
               "How came she to fall then!"
               "She didn't come to fall at all!"
               
               "How did I fall?"
               "You slipped."
               "Didn't she slip?"
               "Why no, she did not, she had nothing to do with you."
               "I am sure she had" said Tom, which was extremely polite, not to say giving the "lie direct" to the lady.
               Alice then grew disgusted with the conversation, and so Tom "dropped the subject" as he had dropped into the pool.
               Tom Strawwood found that it was no go with Rose Wentforth, so he let the thing alone. He received a letter from his brother Hal, telling him that his father advised him to push for the South as soon as possible, as a war was coming. So he pushed, and in the middle of February took a steamer from Boston and went to Charleston, South Carolina.
               Old Tommy Taft who lived in Gnawwood, took it into his head to die in Gnawwood, just to make this book interesting. Barton Cathwagon had gone off and wanted to live in the West. Rose told this to old Tommy, and old Tom remarked "I shan't see him agin." Tom knew that he was going to peg off. Rose knew it too, and one day as she was bidding the old man good bye, she said. "I shall never meet you again until we meet in Heaven." Then Tom was disgusted, for although he had made up his mind to die, he didn't like to have the thing thrown into his teeth in such a flat-footed and unceremonious style, so he remarked, "What are you snivelling at I ain't dead yet." But he did die though, and Barton came back in time to be in at the death. When he was dying he spoke funny things. He said to Barton "stand up boy; turn round. There he is; now I'm all right," and so forth, but he was all wrong, he was on the last quarter stretch of life's race course. He invited [through Barton] all the children to come to his funeral. His last dying words were "Kiss me." Barton kissed him affectionately. Then he smiled, and kept on smiling, though no one saw where the laugh came in. "Without sound of wings, or foot fall, he had departed on his last journey." When people die, as a general rule there are sounds of wings, and foot falls, but not so with old Tommy Taft. He died without making any noise or fuss. He was dead, "the old man was not there," he had literaly speaking "gone of." Requiescat in pace.
               
               The Gnawwoodites like funerals, and so of course, everybody turned out and went to old Tommy's. The children all went too, as old Tom had requested. The funeral was a big thing for Gnawwood and old Tom Taft.
               Of course everyone that went to the funeral talked about religion in general and Tom in particular; they rather enjoyed it than otherwise. Dr. Wentforth and Barton Cathwagon had a long and interesting discussion, which the reader can read or skip. I believe I'll skip it. The reader may do as he pleases. Old Tommy Taft was put a half dozen feet underground. He has gone to that bourne whence no traveller returns. He has come to his end. And the first part of my story of Gnawwood has come to an end, likewise.
            
            
               PART SECOND.
               DURING THE WAR.
               There was trouble ahead. The people of South Carolina had grown to be disgusted with the Union and wanted to kick out of the Federal traces. If they had known beforehand what the result would be, they would rather have borne the ills they had, than fly to others, and so forth. Major Anderson had cut stick from Fort Moultrie, and gone to Fort Sumter. The people of Charleston made up their minds to take Fort sumter if possible. General Beauregard was then in command, and some how or other Tom Strawwood got intimate with the General and was let into all his secrets.
               When Beauregard sent a message to Anderson about evacuating the Fort, of course Tom Strawwood went along. Beauregard wrote to Anderson to say that if he Anderson would state the time when he would make himself scarce, and promise that in the meanwhile he would not use his guns against his batteries unless, his Beauregard's guns should open on Sumter, he would not fire upon the fort. Anderson replied that he would be compelled to pull up his stakes in a couple of days, but added that should Beaury's guns open on the fleet, he Anderson would pitch into said guns. Of course therefore, Beauregard was obliged to let out at once on Sumter, before the fleet could come in to bring supplies. Tom Strawwood in his account tells half of Anderson's reply only, so as not to spoil a good point in Gnawwood and a popular one. The point is that he wanted to say "I was petrified, I scarcely believed my senses," on hearing that Beauregard was going to pitch in at once. He said, so, and when Sumter was taken, he grew disgusted and felt loyal to the flag. Wherefore he went straight to Virginia and, mirabile dictu—joined the Army on the Confederate side.
               Let us return to Gnawwood. "On Sunday morning, the 14th of April, 1861, it was known that Sumter had surrendered. The scales fell from men's eyes." THERE WAS WAR!!! The Gnawwoodites were disgusted with Dr.Gruel's sermon, because there was no allusion to politics or war in it. But he let himself out in the prayer, and so made it all right.
               On Monday the 15th, Lincoln's proclamation came out, and was telegraphed to Gnawwood, and in fifteen minutes after the news reached this wide awake place there was a company at its head. Arthur Wentforth, Rose's brother, aged 20 years was a member of said company.
               They all marched at once to the front. Before starting, Cathwagon wrote a love letter to Rose, and sent it by Pete Lumbermill. But Pete got drunk, lost the letter and never said a word about it. Barton had never told Rose in plain English that he loved her, though he had a thousand good opportunities of doing so. In this letter he came up to scratch. But she never got the note. Mrs. Wentforth was telling Rose how handsome Barton had looked in his soldier clothes. "Rose was silent for a time, and them, with enforced naturalness, asked."
               "Did you say that Barton left any word for me?"
               "Nario word" said Mrs. W.
               Rose was unhappy and disgusted.
               
               Cathwagon was made a Major in short order; and as he was as brave as lion and fought like a couple of wild cats, he was soon made a Colonel, and before the war ended was General Cathwagon. He was promoted as rapidly as the funny man in "La Grand Duchesse."
               Young Arthur Wentforth was shot in the neck in the battle of Bull Run. He was killed. On the next day a telegram was received in Gnawwood saying that he was dead. I had him killed because I didn't know any better disposition to make of him in Gnawwood.
               Agate Bustle opened the telegram. Mrs. Wentforth came into the room.
               "What is it, Agate? speak."
               Agate spake.
               "Arthur has gone up" said she, "slowly—solemnly, and sternly" though I can't myself imagine why "sternly," except that Agate was a stern woman.
               "Dead? dead, Agate? Whose dead?"
               "Arthur Wentforth is defunct."
               "How is he dead. Why did he die?"
               Agate found these questions stumpers, and answered not, but kept on looking stern, and even when Mrs. W. fainted, she still remained stern and as cold as an ice cream churn. When Dr. Wentforth heard the news, he was "intensely calm." Alice was excited, but grew calm after a while. She had expected to hear of her brother's death. He had come to her in a dream and told her the news in advance. The clock ran down at the very hour that the ball had hit Arthur; "they ceased to keep time together." The clock knew that Arthur had been shot and so had knocked off work out of respect. The real reason that the clock ran down, was that it had not been wound that day. But Rose knew a thing worth two of this.
               Mrs. Wentforth and Rose had doubts as to the propriety of going into mourning for Arthur—which was very stupid in them. They spoke about the matter in whispers as though they were a couple of female burglars and were afraid to have their plans overheard. Old Wentforth trotted into the room, and Rose opened fire on him at once. "Father" said she "what is your feeling about"—then she repeated "about" with a dash between, and added "our going into mourning."
               Dr. W. smiled, which was highly improper not to say unfeeling, and then made a joke. He remarked that of course it is right to mourn when we are afflicted. Rose replied that the old man was deviling her, and knew as well as she did that she had alluded to black bombazine dresses and those kind of outside arrangements, and not to inside feelings. Then Dr. W. replied to the question by quoting a text from scripture, proving that white was more fashionable for mourning than black. He went in for white mourning. Mrs. W. went in for black mourning, and they had a discussion about it, which I give black on white. The old lady remarked that when you wear black, people know that you too much with their calls and small talk. Dr. W. acknowledged the corn, but did not think it amounted to a pinch of snuff. He still held up his hand in favour of white mourning—and his wife stuck to the black. The Doctor said that the smell of crape always disgusted him, it made him seasick. Rose had joined in the debate on her mother's side, but Wentforth was one too many for the pair, and came out right side up. None of them wore black for Arthur, which was shameful.
               Just about this period Rose Wentforth began to entertain all sorts of nonsensical ideas and projects. She first thought of going to the South or West to be a school mistress, but the old folks put their feet down upon this project in so emphatic a style, that she dropped it like a hot potato. Then she turned her thoughts on something still more insane. She resolved to join the army as a nurse. Her parents had war on the brain and so approved of the plan. Agate Bustle thought the army is not exactly the right sort of place for a young and pretty girl. I think so too. Rose thanked Agate for the compliment, but was as stubborn as a female mule and said she would go. Agate gave in, and said it was "a go." It was Wednesday—Rose was to be off on Monday, and Agate was going along for company, to look stern at the sick soldiers. On Saturday came Alice Cathwagon with the news that Barton was a Colonel and was in Washington. "Colonel Cathwagon who would have thunk it." Alice told Rose a great secret—the great secret was that she Alice was going to join the nursing company in the spring. Mrs. Wentforth wanted to know if the nurses would knock off work on Sundays—to which Agate replied "not much we wont." Frank Weasel the Boston painter was a lieutenant colonel in Barton's regiment. A big thing on ice for Frank.
               Agate Bustle got a situation as head nurse in a hospital in Washington and Rose was her right hand man. They both nursed well, but Agate was so stern that she was more of a dry nurse than anything else. They had not been on duty any time before Agate had a big fuss with the head surgeon, and threatened to pitch into him and jerk off his shoulder-straps. The surgeon was disgusted and turned her out. Agate called on Abe Lincoln and let out on the surgeon. Old Abe patted the stern woman on the back, remarked "bully for you old gal" had her put back in the hospital and the surgeon was euchred on a lone hand. Agate thought Lincoln a good man, but not a good President. Rose talked Gnawwood religion to the sick soldiers, and they liked the preacher better than the preaching. She was a female doctor too, better even than Agate. The soldiers called her Tea Rose, and Japoncia and Castor Oil Flower and Gnawwood Beauty and pet names in general. The nurses got tired of Washington and took to the field. They saw some tall fighting. One day Rose was looking on whilst the surgeon was sawing off a man's leg. When the leg was half way off, a cannon ball came and took the surgeon's head off in a neat and artistic style. Rose saw it, then took up the saw and cut off the man's leg. Then the soldiers called her the "Daughter-surgeon" what was funnier than the surgeon's-daughter which they used to call her before. Alice Cathwagon came out as she had promised and helped in the nursing. In the Antietam fight a wounded confederate soldier was taken prisoner. He was as gentle as a baby and Alice nursed him. Then in order to wean him—from all thoughts of worldly affairs, she pulled out a Gnawwood prayer book and a Gnawwood psalm book and read and sang to him. He asked her to tell what her name was. She told him and gave her address in full. Then he grew excited and remarked that it was singular. It WAS singular for he was Henry C. Strawwood otherwise Hal—Tom Strawwood's brother. He died. And the three nurses buried him, and Rose wrote a letter to his mother, saying that he was dead.
               
               "When November came in 1862, came also in Gnawwood the renowned Thanksgiving Day, the holiday of old New England from its founding." "In the beginning it was a day of FASTING," but in the end came to be a day of feasting. At the start, all hands agreed to eat nothing between sun up and sun down—nothing between breakfast and supper. No dinner. But the Gnawwoodites couldn't do without eating so long, so between breakfast and supper they performed on crackers and cheese. Next they pitched into gingerbread and followed it up with doughnuts. The Reformed Fasters then took to smoked beef, and growing bolder branched off into cold chicken and even went so far as hot apple pie. After a while they all ate their dinners, and the biggest kind of dinners to boot, and Thanksgiving Day was as good as Fourth of July and compared favorably with Christmas itself.
               
               Lee had entered Pennsylvania and General Cathwagon was going out to meet him. On the road he met Alice and Rose. He addressed the latter as Miss Wentforth, but she objected to the "Miss" as she had done in the case of poor Frank Weasel the Boston painter. She remarked "call me Rose." And he called her Rose, and looked at her with a "hungry look." He was not hungry—he was only in love. The entire party pushed on for Gettysburg, and fought and nursed.
               Whilst the fight was going on, and the girls were enjoying themselves looking at Barton who fought like a mad bull dog, Alice screamed as though she had had a tooth extracted by a quack Dentist. "What's up now!" said Rose.
               
               "I see him, I see him, I see him," remarked Alice.
               Rose asked if she meant Barton.
               "Not much," replied Alice. "I see Tom Strawood fighting like a sick tiger on the rebel side, he has on a gray suit. I see him!! I see him!! I see him!!"
               Rose told her that she ought to be ashamed of herself thus to think of Tom instead of her brother Barton. Rose was herself doing some tall thinking about General Cathwagon.
               Pop, boom, fiz, bang, and its all up with Tom Strawwood. Tom is dead. Alice Cathwagon stood over the corpse and remarked that she had loved it when it was alive and in Gnawwood. She also said that he would never speak again, which was true, and that he was, oh how noble, and beautiful. He was certainly in a beautiful fix, for he was as dead as Julius Caesar's Aunt. Then the women buried him as they had buried his brother and "the sun fell warm in the very grave." Alice never spoke of Tom, but she never forgot him "for one waking hour." When she slept however she forgot him—except when she dreamed.
               Before the Gettysburg fight Barton Cathwagon had a presentiment that he would be killed, and wrote it down in a letter to Rose, in which he spoke of his love, and the other letter he had sent by Pete Lumbermill. After the battle he was among the missing. But Rose got the letter.
               It was worded as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have a presentiment Rose that something is going to be the matter with me to-morrow. I don't feel well at all. If you get this letter you may consider it in the same light as though it had been written by a corpse—as a kind of dead letter as it were. Ever since I was a boy I have been trying not to love you. It was a failure. I didn't succeed. 'Not to love you would be not to be myself,' and so I had to love you in self defence, so as not to be some one else and have to pay another man's taxes. I wrote you a letter and you didn't answer it, still I went on loving you, but I felt nasty. Now that I'm dead, I'm going to talk out any how. But no matter, I'll wait till we meet in heaven, and then I'll tell you all about my love. Amen. Selah. Yours after death, etc., etc.,
                           
                              BARTON CATHWAGON.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Rose stood silent and motionless," she said nothing at first, but kept up a loud thinking. Then "she whispered to herself" for fear that some one would hear her.
               "He loved me; He loved me always; best; to the last; He told me of it; When? WHAT letter," and so forth, said she in a pig's whisper. You see she hadn't received the letter sent by the drunken old curmudgeon Pete Lunbermill.
               When Rose got tired of the pig's whisper soliloquy, she called to Alice and informed her that Barton had gone up. Then the two girls walked out to Tom Strawwood's grave, and cried for him and Cathwagon at the same time. Rose asked Alice if she knew that Barton had been sweet on her. Alice remarked that any fool might have seen it. Then Rose was disgusted with herself and came near having a fuss with Alice because she had not told her about that Lumbermill letter. Then Alice cried, and remarked of Strawwood, "He is gone" and added that her brother was gone also, that in fact everybody was going, and she wanted to go too as soon as possible. Rose then wanted to know if Alice wouldn't feel more comfortable if Tom had told her that he loved her, and then died. Alice said yes. Whereupon Rose inwardly crowed over Alice and thought she had a big thing in the love letter from the dead man.
               
               But, the dead man was not dead. Barton Cathwagon was alive and kicking, though not exactly kicking either, because he had been wounded in the leg. Pete Lumbermill and himself had been taken prisoners, but they had made their escape after having a very disgusting time of it, and got back all right into the Yankee lines.
               Frank Weasel the Boston painter, but now Colonel Weasel, remarked one day to Rose Wentworth that General Cathwagon had been talking about her. Rose observed that the General was defunct. The ex-Boston painter replied that he was perfectly alive and not dead in the slightest degree. Rose then acted as though she had been "caught up by a whirlwind" and the whirlwind had got entangled in her hoopskirts and so forth. She said "not dead!" with an exclamation mark after dead—then she said it over—then she said "alive?" With an interrogation point—and then remarked, a prisoner, which wasn't a bad guess. She then said "alive?" again with the same old mark, and wound up by raising the biggest kind of fuss.
               When Barton next turned up, he was on a Quaker farm nursed by a couple of Roses. Rose Wentforth and Rose Hetherington. The last named owned the farm. Dr. Wentforth was there of course, and one night he told Rose to go to sleep. She replied "I cannot sleep if I lie down." So she slept standing like the Fat Boy in Pickwick. Cathwagon got better. Rose was kissing him one day by the hour, and the smacking noise restored him to consciousness. He woke up and observed.
               Is *  *   *
               This *   *   *
               Rose?  *   *   *
               Then he said he meant his Rose, then corrected himself, and simply desired to know what kind of Rose it was that he saw before him.
               Rose spoke like a Trojan, owned up that she loved him, remarked that she was his Rose, for him and his heirs and assignees, and so forth, for ever and ever.
               It was all right. Barton Cathwagon and Rose Wentforth were engaged to be married.
            
            
               
               PART LAST.
               AFTER THE WAR.
               This part is very short. In fact, only a kind of postscript or winding up to Gnawwood. The war had ended. The Confederacy had gone up. The Niggers were free! Barton Cathwagon who was going to marry Rose Wentforth in a few days, remarked to her that he had something to propose that was so cursedly stupid that he was almost ashamed to mention it. She told him to own up and fire away, no matter how stupid it was. People in love are not expected to have good sense, so "drive ahead" said she to Barton and let's hear the secret.
               "I know you'll laugh" said he, "but please don't. I have a bob-tailed horse with a sore on his hind leg, I used to ride him when I was in camp. I love the bob-tailed horse, he loves me too. Rose I have an insane desire to get married on horseback, on the back of that same animule. What say you Rose, we can both sit on him and get spliced. Will you dearest?"
               "A soldier's wife wouldn't get married in any other way" said Rose.
               So Barton Cathwagon and Rose Wentforth, both from Gnawwood, whilst seated on the back of the old bobtail army horse with the sore on his hind leg, were declared by the Gnawwood parson to be man and wife.
               On the day of the marriage, Agate Bustle grew to be disgusted with herself because she was an old maid. In fact she got sick. Being sick she thought she would take gruel. So she took Parson Gruel, and he took her. She won his heart by looking stern. First she looked at him in her stern manner, then he smiled in his turn, forgot his dead wife and took a live one. Just as Rose Wentforth, had come forth from the altar as Mrs. Cathwagon, Dr. Gruell and Miss Bustle trotted up and got married in the coolest manner possible.
               Frank Weasel the ex-Boston painter and glazier is sweet on Rose Hetherington.
               When Dr. Wentforth looked around in Gnawwood and saw so many people getting married, he thought of poor Arthur who couldn't get married conveniently because he was dead. Then he cried. Then he made some Gnawwood remarks about Arthur's spirit. "The rest of his exposition he made to his pocket handkerchief.,, I don't mean to say he blew his nose. He wept.
               All of the Gnawwoodites are as well as can be expected, I thank you.
               Alice Cathwagon keeps a Nigger school in Lynchburg, Va., where poor Tom Strawwood hailed from. She is low spirited but happy. Gnawwood is finished. It is done. Amen. Selah.
            
         
      
      
         
            "HOUSEHOLD BLESSINGS."
            Labor made easy by the unequalled and justly celebrated Union Washing Machine and Wringer.
            THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
            First Prize Medals Awarded in Europe and America.
            THESE MACHINES are the most popular in the United States and have the largest sale of any Washing machine in the world, because they give universal satisfaction.
            Liberal terms to the trade.
            LAUNDRY WORK MADE EASY, IRONING WITHOUT HEAT!
            Mangles of all Kinds for smoothing or ironing every kind of plain household linen. Suitable for Hotels, public institutions and private families.
            J.WARD & CO., 23 Cortlandt St., N. Y., and 53 Tremont St., Boston.
            
               AGENTS,
               VAN NAME&CO., 231 Walnut st., Cincinnati, and 421 North 6th st., St. Louis
               HARRY DUVAL, 164 Lake Street, Chicago.
            
         
         
            BANGS WILLIAMS NEWS CO.,
            MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF SPECIALITIES FOR DEALERS IN STATIONERY AND FANCY GOODS!
            The trade will find it to their advantage to visit them at 75 John Street, NEW YORK.
         
         
         
            
            ATTENTION PARENTS!
            The Young Scholar's Companion.
            MILLER & WATSON'S PATENT Book Clamp (IMPROVED)
            
               
            
            Is a neat, compact, strong, durable, simple and cheap article for carrying books.
            It holds any number of books, binds them firmly together, does not the least injury, and affords a complete handle for carrying.
            It takes any school atlas and slate.
            It is made of metal, is indestructible, and impossible to get out of order.
            By its simplicity of construction it can be used by any small child with case and certainty.
            It never breaks nor wears out
            It is pronounced by every one the handiest thing made for the purpose to say nothing of the vast amount of books saved by its use.
            
               
            
            Patented September 24, 1867.
            For sale by all respectable Booksellers and Stationers throughout the United States.
            We would caution the trade and public to beware of worthless wooden imitations of our Clamps. Ours are made of metal. None are genuine unless stamped with our name. All parties infringing will be dealt with according to law.
            MILLER & WATSON, SOLE MANUFACTURERS, 211 Centre Street, New York.
         
      
   
