
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Gold Seekers, or, The Cruise of the Lively Sally .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6932
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE GOLD SEEKERS: 
               OR, THE CRUISE OF THE LIVELY SALLY. 
             
            
                
             
            BY CAPTAIN MERRY, U.S.N., AUTHOR OF THE "FLYING DUTCHMAN," ETC. 
            Illustrated. 
             
               
                  
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHERS,  
                     42 ANN STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
          
             
            JACK JUNK 
            OR THE TAR FOR ALL WEATHERS. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "GALLANT TOM," "THE BRIGAND," "THE FLYING DUTCHMAN," ETC. 
            Illustrated. 
            NOTICE-The author of "Gallant Tom," and other tales of ocean life, has fully sustained his well-earned reputation in JACK JUNK. It is a thrilling narrative of life upon the deep blue sea, full of the deep romance which ever attaches itself to the career of the adventurous on the wide path of Old Ocean. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
          
          
             
            
                
                  RUFELS FORMING THE TONTINE. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               THE GOLD SEEKERS; 
               OR, THE CRUISE OF THE LIVELY SALLY. 
             
            BY CAPTAIN MERRY, U.S.N., AUTHOR OF "GALLANT TOM," "THE BRIGAND," "THE FLYING DUTCHMAN," ETC. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER,  
                     43 ANN-STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-three, by H. LONG & BROTHER, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
          
       
      
         
            The gold seekers, or, The cruise of the Lively Sally 
             
            THE GOLD SEEKERS: 
            OR, THE CRUISE OF THE LIVELY SALLY. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE TONTINE ARRANGED. 
               The word tontine, taken in part to designate the following story, signified originally an insurance on lives. It also signifies an association of men who place an equal amount of money or goods together, which are to be perpetuated for the benefit of survivors, so that, as the original shareholders die off one by one, (it being against the true principles of the "tontine" to admit new members,) the last who lives becomes entitled to the whole amount; and on his appropriating the largely increased amount to himself, the tontine becomes a dead letter. The association ends with the accomplishment of its final aim, and one man, through running the chances which human life is subjected to, becomes possessed of an enormous fortune, which might have belonged to any other, had his chances of life been greater than the risks of death. The present story is intended to illustrate this, in connection with other principles and passions evoked by the discoveries recently made in the gold regions; so that, conveying the reader to a new and scarcely yet explored country, where the most astonishing discoveries have been and are daily being made, we shall give him as faithful a transcript as we can of scenes and places to which he has hitherto been a stranger. 
               On a glorious day in the year 18-,the Bristol-built bark, the "Lively Sally, coppered and copper-fastened," as the phrase goes, was idly rocking on the waters of the Pacific, having crossed the line and found herself half-becalmed in those latitudes which denote an approach to Australasia. Her sails were flapping idly against the masts, the seamen were lolling about the decks, or wherever they could find a shade; the gruff mates and petty officers were smoking cigars on the poop, under the awning, while the captain was slumbering off the fumes of a stiff can of grog, to which-otherwise a bold and skillful seaman-he was rather too much attached. In the larger cabin, dignified by the title of "Saloon," some half-dozen passengers were conversing together over their dessert-some bilious oranges, excellent muscatels, preserved fruits and wine; while, for those who preferred them, decanters of various spirits of a more potential kind were profusely laid out. 
               The heat was oppressive, and air was a boon all craved. The crew, already half-mutinous-for their passage had been delayed by foul weather-and menaced with a scarcity of provisions, they had shown strong symptoms of insubordination; but as they were now only about eight-and-forty hours removed from sight of land, the reaction had given place to a more genial feeling of good nature, and a general gayety began to usurp the place of that misanthropic gloom which their anxiety and undefined fears had created. 
               The cabin windows were open at the stern, and a gentle air was wafted over the placid waste of waters, which modified the almost unbearable heat upon deck; and as the doors were open, the slightest possible draught was experienced, with a delicious sense of freshness, by those within, who, by their earnest faces, appeared to have matters of graver importance to think of, which might account for their neglecting the luxuries before them, save that one-a tall, strongly-built, bluff-looking Yorkshire yeoman-was eagerly sucking an orange; and a second personage-thin, lathy and nervous, with a keen, restless eye, and a singular sallowness of countenance-was calmly smoking a cigar, his legs, "Yankee kee" fashion, lolling upon a couch which had lost its pristine brilliancy, and was by no means so elastic as when it first graced the saloon of the Lively Sally. Two men and a female-the latter about twenty years of age-were looking over a piece of paper-a map, chart or diagram-spread open before them. He who forms the sixth, sitting opposite, his arms on the table and his chin on his hand, had lost himself in a reverie while gazing on the strikingly handsome face of a woman whose beauty was of that imperious and lofty kind that attracts and conquers less by tenderness than by an inexplicable force of will, rarely resisted where conquest is intended. 
               The young man, who might be three or four-and-twenty, was not one at first sight to have commanded attention, because, though during the first portion of the voyage he had displayed frankness, ability in some minor things, and on one or two occasions undoubted courage; though he had a handsome, manly face, he had become so shy and reserved, and retiring of late, that his fellow-passengers had lost sight of him, until some few days past, when a circumstance occurred, which will be explained in due time, giving him an importance he did not appear to court, but rather to shun, so that their interest in him, if interest it was, revived. 
               In fact, as their voyage was approaching to a close, all began to talk over their prospects, their intentions, chances, and so on, very frankly; and this might generally be traced to one in particular, who seemed to exercise a strange, but unquestioned influence over the denizens of that cabin. This was a German, Louis Rufels by name, and, as was understood, husband to the woman whose beauty had created no little sensation on board. But a few words are yet necessary before we proceed with the consultation that this day was about to take place in the cabin of the Lively Sally. 
               While all those of whom we have spoken had originally, on taking their berths on board, entertained intentions for future conduct more or less definite, and had their own express purposes, Rufels, by some persuasive means or other, had gradually changed these views, until it would have been difficult for any of the passengers to have distinctly stated what his intentions now were, independent of those Rufels was to dictate; and each would, in fact, have referred to the German for a solution of his doubts. Consequently, it is to be inferred that Rufels had been able to identify most with himself, as by his representations he had succeeded in bringing them at last to join him in a plan he had proposed, and with some skill elaborated, which presently we will detail, first giving a summary of these changes, clearly showing at least the superior mental organization of the man. 
               For instance, Captain Leachline had intended, after discharging his cargo, to get his freight with all speed, and return home to give an account of his voyage, and render up its profits to his owners at Bristol. This was not his intention now, however; for, on leaving Melbourne, he had determined to sail for the Gulf of Carpentaria, and charter his vessel to Louis Rufels, and whomever else it might concern, the offer being one he was justified in taking. He was also to have a share in the speculation. 
               Secondly, Joshua Plaistow, who had been a scampish younger son about "town," had given up the idea of delivering letters which would introduce him to a house of business in Melbourne; but on the contrary, of investing his capital (200) in Rufels' promising speculation, and surrendering his purposes to the German's will. A touch of gambling gave the risk a relish infinitely pleasing to him, for it depended on the doctrine of chances in the main. 
               Thirdly, Roger Wattles, a canny Yorkshire yeoman, who had sold horses to a "dead loss" to purchasers, which involved him and others in a case of bankruptcy, paused in his intention of investing his two or three hundred pounds in a sheep farm. He also had succumbed to the German's representations, and there was a charm in the uncertainty, with its vast, its incredible promise, that made him a convert. 
               Albertus Magnes Smith, (for so his friends had called him,) one of the smokers, was the fourth person totally carried away by the picture of success which the German had painted. Mr. Smith believed in magnetism, transmutation, the philosopher's stone-in everything. He was a speculator to the very core. He had tried every dodge; had been a lecturer, a mesmerist, a panoramist, a showman, and even a literateur, having written several small articles for the newspapers, when nought else offered. He had faith in all; he had failed in all; but his indomitable spirit of "trying his hand" at something new, rendered him an easy convert, and one impossible to discourage. He had 200 to invest in the joint capital-Heaven knows how obtained!-and this he was inclined to do without any hesitation. He had read books on alchemy, magic, and so on, until his mind had scarcely any other fancy left; and from his incoherent babblings on the great hermetical philosopher of Germany, he had been nicknamed "Albertus Magnes," his real name being Albert. Rufels very soon sounded his very shallow depth; but he also acknowledged the uses of a man whom nothing could dishearten, whom no turn of ill-fortune ever made despair. The German, too, was an accomplished man. He spoke English like a native, and other languages as fluently. He had read much, had travelled extensively; in fact, had been an explorer in Australia long before. He was a practical chemist, a mineralogist, a geologist-three qualifications that were likely to render him invaluable. He was an expert logician, and possessed an address that was by no means unattractive, with powers of conversation rarely equalled. His strongly marked features, dark, sunken eyes, broad, pale forehead, long, black, elflike hair, his puny person, which, however, was known to possess prodigious strength and dexterity, his daring mind, its dreams of wealth almost fabulous-all these exercised an unqualified power over the will and decision of others, who, in their comparative ignorance, looked up to him with profound respect. 
               Gervase Murray, the young man whom we have mentioned in the cabin in a reverie, is the last on our list on whom the skill of Louis Rufels had been tried, and to the surprise and annoyance of the latter, had been tried as yet ineffectually; for not only had he failed in making his project attractive to the young man, but there was, in the nature of his replies, a certain tone of ironical doubt, which baffled the skill of the other, even while he found himself, with all his diplomacy, unable to say whether it was simplicity, or whether it arose from a tact equal to his own, which had for the first time threatened to disarrange his plans. 
               Now, the plans of Louis Rufels demanded more particularly that Gervase should join them than almost any other; and, in order to manage this, he had, with marvellous talent, or perhaps unconsciously, as far as his wife was concerned, enlisted her on his side. With a fascination that was irresistible, when she chose to exercise it, the conversation when they happened to be together-reading in the cabin, as was sometimes the case, or walking the deck, conversing of the old home and the new, of the present and the future-turned always upon this-a tontine and gold-seeking-until finally Gervase signified that he was convinced; and Rufels' joy was consequently great when his victory was gained. 
               The following conversation, which took place a few days before our story opens, will explain the importance which the German attached to winning the adherence of Gervase to his side. Rufels and Plaistow had been smoking their cigars on the deck, apart from the others, and holding, at the same time, an earnest, confidential discourse, of which we give the substance, as being alone necessary for the reader's information. 
               "Have you, then, arrived at the solution of the difficulty which you gave me to understand obstructed your plans?" asked Plaistow, puffing out a continuous line of smoke. "I think you are making too much of this young fellow, who I take to be a bit of a 'greenhorn.'" 
               "This Gervase Murray," said Rufels, "of whom you make so little, is not the ass you think him; nor is he so contemptible in other respects but that he may become of vast importance and future service to us. It has cost me some little time, and no small amount of trouble, to read him; but having done so, I rather congratulate my foresight, and don't think my labor will be thrown away." 
               "What mean you, and how have you found it out?" demanded Plaistow, who fixed upon his interlocutor a glance of earnest meaning; for, as he piqued himself on reading character, he was a little disappointed at finding that he had overlooked a point of probable value. 
               "I mean that he will prove so useful to us, that a man with ten times the sharpness he has exhibited would not be so welcome," was the answer. "We shall have failed in a most important matter if we fail to secure him as an ally." 
               "Indeed!" said Plaistow, but not quite so incredulously as before. "You are, I admit, one of the keenest I ever met with in my experience, and that has been a pretty large one, or I am much mistaken." 
               "You may be very much mistaken, however," returned Rufels dryly. "The captain, who, if he blabs his own secrets, and makes his own business no mystery, is yet discreet upon other matters, told me in a confidential moment, when his head had become softened with his own rum--" 
               "A failing you don't yield to, however," interrupted Plaistow, with some little annoyance in his tone, for he could not pass over the other's depreciatory observation. 
               A meaning smile passed between them, despite of this, as their eyes met. They knew themselves, or believed they knew themselves, tolerably well, for each thought the other a knave, and spoke accordingly. 
               "This young fellow, then," pursued the German, "beside being supercargo, is son to one of the owners. I know that he has, in his cabin, authority for business treaties on a vast scale." 
               "Well," said Plaistow. 
               "Well! Do you not see that a point is gained in finding out that his being supercargo, even, was desired to be a secret? I do," he added with some emphasis, "and mean to use my knowledge, too." 
               "In what way?" asked Plaistow carelessly, though he was trembling with eagerness to know the whole that was passing in the other's active mind. 
                
               "Be satisfied in knowing that it is for the general benefit," returned Rufels, with a smile. 
               "Ah!" said Plaistow carelessly; "after all, I don't believe you would have been so successful with this raw lad-for such I still look on him, with all your expectations-if it had not been for the persuasive powers of Madame Rufels." 
               "You think so?" replied the German, as a pallid shade crossed his face; "but you say so maliciously. Never mind, if it be true; it matters little how the success is attained." 
               "Pre-cisely," drawled the other, while Rufels smoked violently, as if chafing under a sudden feeling of anger. "But come; what about his papers, his treaties?" 
               "His papers!" exclaimed Rufels with a start; and then a smile, strange and full of intelligence, played on his thin but firmly chiseled mouth. "Well, in securing him to ourselves," he replied quaintly, "his papers will not be delivered; his agents will be changed for--" here he paused. 
               "For you?" asked Plaistow, looking amazed. 
               "For us!" was the answer; "and if my theory be not an utter and ridiculous failure-and I stake my life that it is true, and will be successful-this brave vessel, instead of carrying a cargo of heavy and profitless anomalies, will be filled with the elements of fortune that the wealthiest monarchs may well envy;" and a gleam of avaricious passion lighted up his eyes, till the sanguine and slippery Plaistow fancied he saw the red reflection of the dazzling gold shining upon it. The latter paused awhile, and then spoke. 
               "Enough!" said he. "What you wish done, count upon me to do." 
               "Are you sure of that?" asked Rufels quickly, as he grasped the hand of the other with a clasp of iron. 
               For an instant the two men gazed into each other's eyes, as if they would read there an unspoken idea that had, by a mysterious instinct, become common to both. Evidently, the look conveyed as much meaning and intent as any words could do; for, releasing the hold of Plaistow's hand, Rufels said: "With a capital of 1,200 to start with, and a ship at small freightage, and a cargo that will be worth a Spanish galleon, there is a game worth boldly playing for full in view." 
               But this short colloquy, clever and cautious as the speakers were, had not passed entirely without a listener, for, soon after they had parted, out of the folds of the great sail that lay on the boom, and supported by the bulwark, beside which they promenaded, there peeped a shaggy human head, whose ferocious face and cunning twinkle of the small, deep-set eye, would have been startling enough to meet. This head was followed by a powerful form that dropped lightly out. 
               "One thousand, two 'undred pounds, eh? you beggars!" muttered the old bear-like seaman. "A countin' of your chickens, are ye, afore they are hatched, belike? A nice pair you are, but there's another to share the plunder, or I'm mistaken in my reck'nin';" and with a sardonic grin, away he lounged leisurely forward. 
               Return we now to the cabin we have quitted so long, where the group already described were seated, some poring over the plan, Gervase lost in thought, and the others idling as best suited themselves-in order to show more plainly the nature of the design which Rufels had thus far, and with apparent success, formed for the mutual benefit of the confederates. 
               "Now, my friends," said Rufels aloud, yet not so loud that they should be heard from the deck by any listener at the "companion," while Gervase gave a start at seeing that Madame Rufels, or Maria, as Rufels himself, more familiarly called her, was closely watching. "Now, my friends, let us drink a glass of wine to the success of our plan, and let us at once sign the agreements mutually." 
               And as he spoke, those who sat apart drew to the central table; and while one closed the cabin doors to, for better security, six persons-five male, and Maria Rufels, sat around, leaving one place empty, however, and the auditory appeared to listen with interest to the chief speaker. 
               "Gentlemen," continued Rufels, with a frank ease that well became him when he chose, "fill your glasses." They did so, and all were charged. 
               "Let us drink to the success of the tontine," said he. 
               "To the success of the tontine!" repeated Gervase, gravely; and with a touch of irony in his tone, he added, "which only one can win;" and all put down their glasses empty. 
               "Truly," replied Rufels gayly, though a scarcely imperceptible glance was shot by his wife at Gervase, which the German, if he saw, did not notice, "which only one can win, and for that reason is a tontine. But let us not forget the greater harvest that is to spring out of this minor matter; let us drink success to the Gold-seekers, who have before them a field to work in such as will make El Dorado forgotten, and the mines of Golconda pale in their promise of wealth." 
               "The Gold-seeker!" cried Albertus Magnus Smith, with an air of infatuation. "Never heard of a speculation so splendid." 
                
               "I hope it is a speculation as will be a speculation," said Roger Wattles, sententiously. 
               "But at which only one can win," added Plaistow. 
               "No, not so!" interrupted Rufels with a slight impatience of manner. "It must be admitted that in all associations all cannot win. But in ours, while one, every one of us, has the chance of gaining the wealth of an empire, there cannot be a total failure while the great war goes on; for sufficient for support, and the prosecution of our design, will be dispensed. That is a vital consideration, and to that all other matters must give place; for without that, there can be no association; nor until the agreements are signed can I, with any consistency, enter into those explanations you will then have a right to demand; and do not forget, my friends, that it is I who run the greater risk-I, who know what to search for, where to search, and with what result. To do this with greater ease and certainty. I share my secret." 
               "True!" shouted Smith eagerly, too fearful of a speculation missing fire; "let us proceed; let the papers be put out and signed at once." 
               Six pieces of paper, the one a fac-simile of the other, and drawn up in the neat handwriting of Maria Rufels, and evidently at the dictation of her husband, in true lawyer-like style, were placed before each sitter, (the captain alone not being present, since he still enjoyed his siesta,) each paper binding each and all severally together to throw into one common fund the sum of 200, in addition to which each man was to undertake his own travelling expenses for the next six months after landing, and to throw in all his labor, skill, and power, in searching after gold, the proceeds to be converted into money and added to the joint fund, deducting at the same time an equal, but a sufficient share to meet all their wants. 
               "Look at the grandeur of the scheme which I propose," continued Rufels; "look at the gigantic results which will thus accrue! In point of fact, and before very long, the wealth thus increasing, lent to government, lent to capitalists, lent to the great speculators of Europe, but always on safe security, may not only baffle figures in the counting, but give us a power beyond that of empire, greater than despotism, wider than that of conquest, and more endurable than that of dynasty." 
               His enthusiasm, as he drew a picture of the probabilities to which his undoubted sincerity pointed out for them, communicated itself to all his listeners but two. Gervase was as collected as ever, and Maria seemed to be singularly impassive. As for Albertus, his eyes sparkled; he rubbed his hands with joy; Plaistow was moved to an almost noisy mirth; while the Yorkshire-man slapped Rufels on the back, and swore that he was fit to be Lord Chancellor, and, in the plentitude of his heart, declared that their fortunes were made. 
               "Well, then," continued Rufels, "since this is the general opinion, let us know what the objections are, if any--" 
               "No, no, there are not-there cannot be any!" cried the speculator. "Let us sign, and sign at once;" and he seized a pen. 
               "Let us sign, then," said Rufels. "Maria will be witness." 
               "The captain is not here," observed Gervase, still very quietly. "It is necessary that he should be, since I understand he has been persuaded to become one--" 
               "Persuaded!" began Rufels, as his color rose. 
               "Chosen-convinced himself of the propriety-what you will," said the young man, still singularly collected, "only let us not differ about words. It is necessary, in order to legalize this matter; for that, Herr Rufels, is what I apprehend you wish,"-the German nodded assent-"that all should sign; that all should mutually be witnesses of the signature of the other." 
               "Good!" said Rufels. "I can have no objection, and prefer it so; and only did not like to disturb him. One of us had better call him." 
               "I will go," said Gervase, and he rose and quitted the cabin. 
               "Our young friend does not seem to be very sanguine in the matter," observed the German quietly, "and I like it the better; it is the sign of a collected and intrepid nature; and I argue much more from the labor of a cold, determined operator, than I do from one whose demonstrations are of a more open kind." 
               The speculator took this to be what is termed a rap on the knuckles, and schooled himself as well as his exhilarated spirits could, to restrain his demonstrations; and this he did by the aid of a tumbler of spirits-and-water, which did not tend at the moment, however, to still the tumult of his awakened avarice. 
               The footsteps of Gervase, and the deep voice of the captain, gave evidence that they were approaching; and presently both entered, Captain Leachline himself being a little hazy, and slightly rolling in his gait, through what he called having a short "sea on." 
               He took his seat, and Rufels explained to him the contents of the paper placed before him, which the honest captain read mostly down; and when that was done, signed his name. All in turn signed every paper, and Maria Rufels attached hers as a witness. On the six papers there were, therefore, seven signatures, and each man kept a copy. 
               "There is a clause, too, which refers to the deaths of the members of this association," said Gervase, after a pause, during which some were putting their copies in safe keeping. 
               "Of the tontine?" said Plaistow. "What's that? Let's see;" and he ran his paper down with some attention, fearing that some important item might have escaped him. "O, yes!" he added, after a pause; "every death must be proved, certified, and affidavits made before a magistrate that such has taken place, from whatever causes death may occur." 
               "It seems that this is not only fair," said Rufels, "but a protection one from another." 
               "A protection!" and Gervase, in tranquilly echoing the word, laid an emphasis upon his expression. "Is, then, a protection necessary to us one for another, or from another?" and for the first time Rufels noted a masterly power in his eye. 
               "Who knows what may happen?" replied Rufels, who seemed to be discomposed at the scrutiny. "The clause appeared to be necessary; and though I have created the scheme, I must not be held accountable for casualties." 
               "Very true!" and Gervase calmy rose. 
               "This seems all ship-shape and Britisher-fashion-eh, Master Murray?" said the captain, glancing at Gervase, and putting up his copy in a great leathern pocket-book. 
               "Quite so, captain," was the answer; "and I am quite satisfied with it. We have now only to know how we are to go to work." 
               "To-morrow I will explain that map, which I have drawn of the locality of country to which our efforts are to be directed; and we will arrange the plan of our journey, and the mode of action;" and Rufels took up a colored plan that lay half open, and rolled it up. "For the present, I imagine that we have done enough." 
               "Be it so. To-morrow," said Gervase, "such an arrangement will be necessary. But as the captain cannot leave his ship, what is to be done will be portioned among us five." 
               "Precisely; and such is part of the method I should propose. When we arrive, and are once on shore," continued Rufels, "all will accompany me in a body to the bank, and there deposit the sums in our joint names; till then, each man will retain his own amount by him, and thus far he will be assured his gold is safe." 
               "That's fair enough," observed the cautious yeoman, "but dang me! if I have a bit o' fear of you, Master Rufels." 
               "You need not, my friend," returned the other, smiling. "Take it as a rule, that a man with my views does not play for a small stake." 
               The captain was looking out of the cabin windows, when he uttered an exclamation of joy. "Here's the breeze, at last. Slap on the quarter," he said, "and now we'll bowl along like a steamer down the Thames. All hands make sail!" he shouted in a stentorian voice as he gained the deck; and presently all was activity, and the ship full of an orderly confusion; and while mast and yard began to hold out the spreading sails to the fresh wind, the Lively Sally soon showed that she did not belie her name, by literally racing through the seas. 
               When Gervase returned to the deck, he caught sight of a bluff, bold young mate, belonging to the vessel. "Bob-Bob Jackson!" he whispered, "leave your state-room door open when you turn in to-night-I want to speak with you. Mum!" and he made a sign of silence. 
               "Mum!" replied Bob, springing into the rigging, and quitting the young landsman as if he had never seen him. The Lively Sally meanwhile sailed spankingly on, and night fell upon the sea. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE TWO SUPERCARGOES. 
               THE Lively Sally was bowling gayly along, and the night-watch had been set, when Bob Jackson, the second mate, having been relieved, dived by the companion-way, which led into the depths of the ship, to where the petty officers held their empire and sway, (far below the line of watermark,) and having entered into a little cabin lighted up by a swinging lamp, he opened a little locker, and regaling himself with a little biscuit and beef, and taking thence a case-bottle, proceeded to mix himself a tolerably stiff glass of old Jamaica; then lighting a cigar, he sat upon a chest, in order to lighten, if that was requisite, the tedium of waiting for his chum, Gervase Murray, who shortly after made his appearance; and sliding the door, they began their conference. 
               "Well," said Bob, laconically, "what's in the wind?" 
               "A good deal more, Bob, than you can see with your best weather-eye," returned Gervase. "What do you think, for instance, of this Madame Rufels, whom you have seen and spoken to, and spoken of, with a most suspicious interest, more than once?" 
               "I think she's the most shapely craft of her kind I ever set eyes on since I left Bristol tol Quay," returned Bob. "And what of that, shipmate mine, that you inquire?" 
               "Simply this," was the answer: "that I am going to join myself with her husband in a speculation which will deprive the Lively Sally of a supercargo, unless I can get a friend whom I know to play the part for me." 
               "I think you're struck somehow with her bold black eyes, Master Gervase," said Bob with an undissembled sneer. "Mayhap, you're a little jealous-eh?" 
               "Don't be a fool, Bob," was the mild reproof. "I am not--" 
               "Not jealous?" inquired Bob, with a sly leer. 
               "Not a fool," said Gervase, correcting him. "This man has already acquired so much power over old Leachline, that if some one doesn't look after the ship and cargo, it's my opinion she'd be no better than a buccaneer in a month's time, and freighted by somebody else than the agents of Murray, Jackson & Co.-your dad and mine, Bob, not to speak of the Co., would become the consignees." 
               "Well, and so we're to displace the old sea-bear, eh?" asked Bob, "and I'm to be the captain pro tem.; is that it?" 
               "Not at all; the Lively Sally won't change her commander for many a year to come, I hope; for, barring a trifle of love for rum, Bob," and the young man glanced at the mahogany-colored liquor in his friend's glass, "and I know another who is no mortal foe to it, there is not a better seaman on the seas, nor a stauncher man out of Bristol." 
               "Bravo, boy!" said Bob frankly; "that's true, however. Well, go on; heave ahead." 
               "Now, if I have not made a fearful mistake-and if I have, I don't think much harm can come of it-but if I have not, by joining them myself, by seconding, and not opposing the captain, by becoming a sharer in this queer 'tontine'-and if you don't know what that means, I have no time to tell you now-and by giving you my papers-and mind, on this head there must be the profoundest secrecy kept-by giving you the originals, and keeping copies myself, which I have already prepared, and following the tide of events, and watching this man, I think I shall not only prevent a danger I fancy that a new and selfish interest awakened in old Leachline's rugged breast has provoked, but I think that if there be any truth in this fellow's speculation, the evil may be turned to good." 
               "So, I'm to be supercargo. Well and good! and what's my commission while you neglect duty, and go gallivanting about after this Madame Rufels? for I 'spects that there's as much truth in what you have not told, as there is in what you have;" and Bob, sipping his rum, looked very knowing. 
               "Nonsense!" exclaimed Gervase, while, however, a hue suffused his brown cheeks with a deeper carnation; and he took up a cigar to cover his confusion. "Nonsense!" said he, lighting it, and beginning to smoke. "Of course, she'll be with her-well, with her husband; though I don't think he's any more her husband than I am." 
               "Eh!" cried Bob. "Holloa! what the old Davy are you driving at now?" 
               "Never mind that, just now," returned young Murrray; "I shall come to that presently. This Rufels is a bold and ingenious fellow, full of plots, and plans, and design. He thinks, perhaps, that he has got hold of a few greenhorns, as I know he does me the honor to think I am. We shall see about that. In my opinion, there is some truth in what he proposes-(and as your commission, you shall have the first lump of gold I pick up, besides a per centage)-but I also think that there's villainy lurking behind all. If so, I shall anticipate it; and, as this is an affair intended to be upon a large scale, this fellow, if he does not attempt it with us, will do it with some others who may not see their way so clearly as I do." 
               "As you think you do," observed Bob, applying himself to his glass, which he then handed to Gervase. 
               "You speak like a book, Bob," was the rejoinder; "and be it as you say. If the thing is genuine, there's no knowing what may come of it." 
               "And why can't I have a share in it, if it's so promising?" asked Bob, with some touch of envy. 
               "Because you shall have a share in it without any danger," returned Gervase; "trust me for that." 
               "They'll cut your throat, my boy, if they fancy you're going to spoil business," observed Bob; "and let me tell you, friend Gervase, that there's a precious deal of the Jesuit about you. It seems to me, that while you only suspect knavery on the German's side, you are anticipating him by contemplating it first." 
               Gervase laughed. "It does seem so," he replied; "but I act upon suspicion. As for the first danger, let me alone to look after myself; for if I find that the man means well, I shall simply aid him according to agreement and Cocker; if not, I shall be prepared for him;" and Gervase proceeded to detail to his friend the greater portion of what the reader is already acquainted with. 
               "When the Sally has got a clean-swept hold, with the exception of a few 'notions,' and such things as the German may suggest," continued Gervase, "she is going farther away than you, in your innocence, ever thought of reaching." 
               Bob gave a prolonged whistle, opened his eyes, and exclaimed: "The devil! and where-away may that be?" 
               "To the Gulf of Carpentara," was the answer. 
               "Shiver my topsails! To the Gulf of Carpentara! Well, after all, it's all in the way home, and we may see John Chinaman, only we're not quite fit to meet a typhoon. But what to do there, if you please?" asked Robert Jackson, gravely. 
               "You will there see all for yourself. It is only for the security of ship, cargo, captain and crew, that I make you master of these details; for you have sense, and knowledge of what to expect, to guide you. This you must not oppose; you must rather help Captain Leachline all in your power; for he means honestly enough, and wouldn't believe himself capable of being deceived, so dogged is he in a belief of his own cleverness. He is promised an immense freight, a large commission, and of course a benefit to his owners; and as he has a permission to act for himself given him, it would be certain ruin to interfere. The only thing is, therefore, to help him on, and, by watching where he blindly trusts, to prevent any danger from accruing to himself or any. Now, do you begin to see your way?" 
               Bob puffed out a cloud of smoke, swigged again at his rum-and-water, rubbed his eyes, and finally made reply: 
               "It's a little hazy ahead, I must own; but I think I can find soundings among all these pretty head-lands where you have placed me. I can act better, perhaps, according to events. However, I'll do as you say, and stick to instructions." 
               "Thank you, Bob;" and Gervase grasped the hand of his old companion, and schoolfellow, and friend, warmly (for such the reader will guess them to have been, sons of the owners of the Bristol clipper, who had been partners for many years). "Thank you; I knew you would; and now take these papers at once, and place them in your locker, and reading this paper of instructions at your leisure, you'll know all I have to tell you and wish to be done." Bob took the supercargo's papers, and at once secreted them in a locker, which was carefully concealed. 
               "Well, now, about this Madame Rufels, whom you say is not married?" said Bob, when a slight pause had intervened. 
               "It's rather queer, I guess, that in such a case they should live in the same cabin." 
               "They don't live in the same cabin," was the answer. "Out of the saloon, it is true, one door admits them, but they have state-rooms at different ends of the gangway which the stewardess told me of, and with the exception of their being together in the day time, they are as separate as the poles when retiring to rest. What can you make out of that-eh, Master Bob?" And Gervase fixed his eyes inquiringly upon the puzzled face of his friend. 
               "This is what Miss Seraphina Emily Jones, that pretty girl at the confectioner's shop by the hot wells under Clifton Downs, would call 'romantic'" replied Bob; "as for me, I call it a fix, all ravelled together like a hank of twine." 
               "Right; and don't you go forgetting the pastry cook, Bob, whose heart you have blarneyed out of her little bosom, and casting sheep's-eyes where you have no business; I shall tell my sister Fan when I get back--" 
               "Come, stow that lumber," said Bob, gruffly. "You hav'n't asked the stewardess for nothing, that's as clear as the logbook." 
               "You're a piece of junk, Bob, with no brains for counterplot," replied Gervase coolly, "and have no skill beyond that of handling a ship in a gale. You can hand reef and steer; and for the matter of that, so can I; but I can do more, and you know it; therefore, as the topman said, 'let the sail-maker stick to his needle, and the carpenter to his mallet.' I know what I am about; I want you to do the same." 
               "You are a bounceable fellow," growled Bob, "and I don't know but what I ought to have you laid in the bilboes for trying to kick up a mutiny, as this seems no better, plotting against the captain, and cutting from your duty." 
               "If you do that, Bob, you'll spoil sport," observed Gervase. 
               "And if I do that," said Bob, "I'll be hanged." 
               "Very good. Now hand me the glass, and we'll drink to the 'tontine,' also;" and he drank, but moderately, out of Bob's replenished glass, and smoked on. "Some of these days I'll tell you what that means, though perhaps you can guess now. In the meantime, you're sure you can play my post of supercargo, and say nothing about it?" 
               "Why, I don't think one ought to go often to school to do that, and so," added Bob, "you may set your mind at rest. I say, how the old barky is snoring along! she's on her best tack now, and if old Roundabout (the first mate) only keeps her well to the wind, we shall see land before next noon. Are you going? Well, good night! I shall turn in now." And they parted. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               MARIA RUFELS AND "SAVAGE JACK."-A GOLD-SEEKER'S THEORY. 
               "I CAN read it in his honest eyes," muttered Gervase to himself, as he ascended to the deck to seek his cot, "that she has fascinated him, and by-and-by will be the means of dissension and bitterness between me and my dearest friend, if nothing more should come of it. There is a dark mystery about her. There is danger in those glances with which she can sway the will of strong men, and mould them to her purpose; while the way in which she had endeavored to cast the same spell over me, shows either a decided preference, or is the secret of a purpose in which I am to be used. What then is the secret of her interest in this Rufels; or rather, what is the mystery of his influence and his power over her?" and thinking thus, Gervase was on the deck, cast a glance up to the skies, in which the freshening breeze sang, and saw that every sail was set, and the elastic spars bending. As he passed the poop he bade Roundabout, the officer of the watch, "Good-night," and passing into the cabin built on deck, (a sort of strong hurricane house,) he sought his bed, and was soon lost in oblivious sleep. 
               The midnight watch was passed, and the men who had been below now relieved those on deck, and with the exception of a pull at the "braces," a little trimming here, and a slackening of a sheet there, under the grim superintendence of the first officer, and all was quiet as before. The brilliant sky, blazing in the early night with countless stars, was now clouded, and all was dark on deck, save for a lantern or two fore and aft, and a light in the binnacle for the helmsman to steer by. 
               Skulking in the deep shadow of the bulwarks, over which the spray washed, and gliding onwards with the security of a man who feels he is unseen, while his feet, accustomed to the rolling of the ship, were firm as the planks, or as a landsman's would be ashore, a tall, bulky figure was silently making his way aft, and while Roundabout left the railing of the poop to take a look at the compass, the figure dived down the companion by which Gervase had not long ago ascended; but instead of going as far as Jackson's berth, he passed on the 'tween decks between some coils of rope, chests, and boatswain's stores, and thrusting to a sliding door in the bulkhead, which opened into the passage where the passengers' sleeping berths were, he arrived at one nearest the stern of the vessel, which was lighted by a lamp hung to a beam, and found himself in the presence of Maria Rufels, who, apparently lost in thought had not yet sought her bed in an inner cabin. 
               As the man drew the sliding-door of the berth to, she was aware of his presence, and gave a start, with a half-suppressed cry, uttering the name of Rufels! 
               "No, it ain't he," said the intruder with a grin of triumph on his ludicrous and animal visage; "it's me; and I hope you know me, marm!" and folding his arms on his brawny chest, he stood in the floor before her. 
               "Savage!" she gasped out, while the paleness of death was spread over her superb countenance. 
               "Right!" chuckled the other. "I see you haven't forgotten old times or old friends. John Savage, or 'Savage Jack,' as the lubbers aboard here have christened me. How'sever, times'll turn, I hopes, and maybe I won't be even with them. Well," he added, with a derisive leer, "and how do you find yourself? 'Tain't the first time we've been aboard ship--" 
               "For the love of heaven," cried the frightened woman, who in the presence of all others so cold, haughty, and impassive, as though born to command by a gesture, and awe by a look, was now like a dove in the presence of a hawk; "for the love of heaven, leave me." 
               "Leave you! Oh, bother to that," said the ruffian. "There's a little money aboard here, a matter of twelve hundred pounds, as I've heard 'em speaking of. Well, I shan't have much when I land, and must get you to borrow me a little--" 
               "I! I have none, can get you none. I know nothing of it--" 
               "Harkee!" growled Savage, "we'll have no shindying, no rows, no words. You'll just help me, and I'll help you--" 
               "Do not do anything of the kind, or else--" 
               "Or else what!" and the man uttered an imprecation. "Do you think I am going to be humbugged with this chaff? Listen to me-to what I know and what I'll do-" and though she could have shrieked in absolute horror of his presence, and have swooned in the utter disgust of his touch, he seized her by the arm, and whispered a few words in her ears. 
               "No more," she said in a shuddering whisper. "My God, how came my fate to cross my path with this wretch! Anything, anything to rid me of you! Here is a little money, all I have by me;"-and she gave him a purse, which he clutched greedily at, and shook it in disdain. 
               "Is this here all?" he asked. 
               "All! it leaves me a beggar," she was proceeding. 
               "Gammon!" interrupted the robber. "This here won't do. Come my fine madam, you know there's more--" 
                
               "There's no more, as I live," she breathlessly cried; "but wait, wait for heaven's sake till we land. I'll see-I'll see-" 
               "Till you land! Well! I don't care if I does; but mark me, I'll know all this matter, and don't you go to think as I'm to be brought up with a slippery turn. If I see any signs of it I'll blab-I'll blab, and so as you knows me, look to it; for I'll blab-ha! ha!" and hoarsely chuckling as he went, he followed the path to the door by which he had been admitted, and in a few minutes found himself in the tween decks again. From thence he speedily made his way to the forecastle. 
               No sooner had "Savage Jack," as he had been nicknamed, quitted her state-room, than Maria Rufels, with a shudder and a moan, beheld the space he had occupied empty, than rushing to the door, she closed and fastened it, and fell in trembling horror on her knees. The long dishevelled hair, fell like a veil of darkness, hid her pallid face, down which tears of rage, shame, and agony, were pouring. 
               "Oh God!" she cried out, wringing her hands, "why has my path been once more crossed by this monster? Have I not sinned, suffered, expiated enough? Must I drink of every base and bitter humiliation that these wretches offer me? Slave to a caprice which has only the most sinister motive and aim, why was I, who would rather turn the knife upon him, forced to guide it? I will not endure this. Let him-let them, look to themselves. If they drive me to desperation, they shall know that the tigress has claws, and that she will use them too;" and rising up with a fierce change of mood and mien, she flung back her splendid tresses, and gathering them up, soon collected together her almost indomitable coolness. 
               "It is well," she continued to herself, "that I do know my enemy is at hand. I had counted on one way only. Oh, vision! vision! that hast fooled me for so long, will thy radiant robes become dark and bloody, are I clasp that peace I have not known for so long, so long a time!" 
               It was a scene of stormy agony, such as would have moved both the sympathy and awe of any who might by chance have been a spectator of her terrible communings-of her terror, or of her remorse, as the case might be. It was not a passion of tears petulantly shed, nor the ebullition of an irritated disposition. Deep in the strong and undaunted heart of that woman, there were other springs on which the low ruffian had acted like fire in a powder-mill. "I would have prayed to-night," she said, "but I cannot now; and on those who have placed themselves between me and my conscience, my conscience and God, be the responsibility of whatever will be done; for if I turn--"-she bit her lip almost ferociously, till the blood left it and then sprang out where her savage teeth had indented, and her hand had a convulsive clutching, as if it held a knife. 
               In the meantime the night wore on, the captain appeared on deck, and the Lively Sally was riding buoyantly over the billows; and Leechline, as he saw her bows leaping over the crested foam, and witnessed the tension of every sail, could not help uttering a sentence of praise, as though there had been an animated spirit in her brave timbers that should hear his commendation and be proud of it. Day broke broad, shining, gorgeous, and waters were around them everywhere, but the fresh breeze sang in the tightened rigging, and sounded a diapson among her taut spars, and on, on she careened. 
               It was past noon when the passengers of the cabin sat, after their mid-day meal, as on the yesterday, to listen to the farther revelations which Rufels was about to make to them. All were eager, anxious and interested. Plaistow sat near the German, with a confident air, as he could have aided Rufels and elucidated whatever was likely to appear difficult or doubtful. The speculator, Albertus Magnes Smith, did not appear to have slept at all, through overexcitement. The Yorkshireman was stolid, satisfied and comfortable-his general way. Maria Rufels was very calm, with a cold, indifferent half-smile upon a face that in its sculptured beauty struck the collected Gervase (who sat in the usual place, nearly opposite to her) as being like that he would have imagined Minerva to wear. There was added to its stateliness and proud aspect, an intelligence, or rather an intellectuality, so lofty and superior that the young man, whatever his thoughts or suspicions might have been, acknowledged to himself, as he had often done before, that there was a physical and mental majesty about her, which, in his hardest imaginings, he could not deny. "If she could exceed herself at that moment, active or passive, she can have no equal; for humble as her pretensions, place, position, and prospects may be, there lies in her personality, a genius and a talent, or what may be equivalent to both, which will soon change the aspect of matters on board and on shore." And so on, his thoughts rambling as he sat, his forehead buried in his knuckles as it were, but rejecting with vehemence the wine, the spirits, or the cordials, his more thoughtless companions were pressing him to take. 
               As for the German himself, he was in the best mood-and that always a grave one-playfully, even ironically grave, though there was a provocative in that, since he had the tact, when in the mood, to educe the largest symmetry of a man's mind by argument, let us say of a commonplace kind. It was thus he arrived at a computation of their talent, capacities and abilities. The man was certainly no charlatan, however much he might pervert his gifts. Cigars, the usual after-dinner dessert with men aboard ship, are generally smoked on deck, out of respect to the tastes of the women. On this, as on other occasions, they were like the pipes of the Indian warriors, smoked only on consultations. And when Captain Leechline, in his linen jacket and trowsers, loose unneckerchiefed shirt collar, and with a great-brimmed straw hat, came in from deck smoking hot, with a cigar between his brown lips, his eyes laughing between their browner cheeks and forehead, to ask them how they were, those, we repeat, who felt any compunction before, felt none after (he seemed to enjoy his cigar so well): and as Madame Rufels said she liked the smell, in a few moments all were smoking away as if to make up for lost time. 
               Rufels was a patient man. By degrees he allowed one or two to smoke their cigars out, and then he spread his diagram on the table. It was magical. Even old Leechline, who loved a pipe or cigar as he did his "dear old Jenny" at home, gave in, and said, "Come, mates, round the capstan, and let's know what the land-commodore has for to propose to us." 
               Rufels also placed a board, about a foot square on the table, a raised map, as it were, with mountains, rivers, plains, and forests, planned upon it, with a sea islanding all; a diagram they at once knew to be a resemblance of Australia. Gervase drew nearer now, in his interest to read from the actual survey the design which was to be acted upon, and sat perfectly opposite to Madame Rufels, but he did not look at her. Between the diagram and Rufels himself his attention was all divided. His active mind too, like that of the German, was at work; and this time he had no divided interest; for the "president of the association," as the speculator Smith had somewhat ostentatiously entitled him, was a man of undeniable talent. All was attention, even old "Hardblow" himself-(the captain, as he was irreverently styled at times)-even he gave in to the inland surveying; as to navigation, it is possible if Cook, Cochrane or Dampier, had attempted to enlighten him, he would have plugged his ears with pellets of Bristol "baccy" in order not to be trifled with. Finally, Rufels began. 
               "We are approaching to a country," said Rufels, "which is larger than the continent of Europe, more or less-I will not be particular; and yet this country, or island, in 1816, was not only mentioned in Cyclopedias as a 'place,' a designation given to a vast unknown part, but proved to be an island, by adventurous men sailing round it. An area of more than three millions of square miles, only tenanted on its very verge by a few millions of people, and those scattered, by reason of the extent, in comparatively small groups, must be in its interior entirely unknown. 
               "Our ideas of the interior, then, must be compounded of the scorching sahara of parched deserts, and rocks, and boundless wastes, and inaccessible mountain ranges, such as cross Africa from east to west. We must look upon it as a country whose productions, animal, vegetable, and even mineral, are different to those of all others; for there are black swans, white eagles, walking leaves, blue crabs, quadrupeds with the bills of birds, trees that shed their bark instead of their leaves, and amphibious fishes. All is one mass of disordered contradictions, crude, unformed, and of the nature of a planet that is undergoing the process of preparation previous to its being fitted for man's dwelling-place. The awful desolation, the tremendous silence that reigns in some of the bleak and gloomy solitudes of this strange country, possess a sublimity which the ruins of an annihilated world would be supposed to possess. 
               "You perceive by the diagram I show you," continued Rufels, "that in this enormous expanse of earth, the rivers are few, small, and far between. Yet it is well known that the interior rains are like deluges, and that the dews are copious in the extreme. You perceive also, that from the mountain systems here and there spread along the coast, east, west, north, and south, that great plains extend from the centre towards the circumference, where I have raised an imaginary chaos of mountains, an empire of granite Titans, with snowy crowns, and situated among them, in the very heart of their base, their almost unattainable peaks shadow an inland sea, which comprehends an area of thousands of miles. I am led to suppose this, because the drainage demanded by the extent of the land is not accounted for, not a tithe of it, by the rivers flowing to the ocean, nor by any evaporation. Consequently there must be rivers flowing into this inland sea. How it is that this sea be not filled to overflowing. I do not pretend to explain, and if I did I should account for it in the absorbing nature of the sandy deserts, the endless morasses, or by the growth of millions of acres of tropical plants, which require in their fibrous vigor a supply of moisture with which we have as yet had no experience. 
               "The course of mountain ranges, the flow of the rivers, the soil, the stratification, and so on, being utterly contrary to those of any other part of the globe, whether in the old or the new world, it follows that what we may not find in these countries, we may in Australia; and, applying the doctrine of plutonic fires, of pressure from above or from below, or even that of submersion in the waters of the deluge, we shall find a more primitive class of rocks there than in any other place." 
               "Well, what do you infer from that?" asked Gervase, who had listened, while following with his eye the different parts of the diagram with the profoundest attention. 
               "Gold has been found in crystals laminated like micacious rock and accompanied by quarts; and as there is something like a solution of the old alchemistical theories that the rock, by gradual processes of a chemical, as I hold it, and of a mystical kind, according to the old writers, becomes transmuted from form to form, that while carbon, by slow processes, is metamorphosed into the diamond, so is the crystal transmuted into gold. Even if I be wrong in this, the fact that gold is found in beds of rivers which had washed the base of lofty mountains, is in itself sufficient; and remarking this inland sea, the surface of which must be lower than the level of the great plains, the dreary deserts which surround the central region, I infer that the base of these mountains quartz, crystal, and of the earliest as well as the latest plutonic fire, suggests the presence of gold, and in the dark recesses of those mountain foundations, in the waters of those unknown rivers, on the shores of that mysterious and unknown sea, that I trust to find the diamond and gather up gold. It is to this central region we must direct our attention, and prepare for our journey. The difficulties are, as a matter of course, great, but by no means impossible to be overcome. The distance we will reckon at from a thousand to fifteen hundred miles; but as we shall embark on Lake Torrens, on which I have before sailed, and which is four hundred miles from the sea, making for the most northern point of its are, we shall thus have saved considerable time, and have mastered the first difficulty; and it is there, and there only,-for I see no utility in doing so before that-we shall separate, I to follow my track alone, which may or may not be successful, you four gentlemen will divide yourselves into two parties, and select your companions--" 
               "I'm going with the young sprig, there," said Roger Wattles, bluffly pointing to Gervase. 
               "By consequence Mr. Plaistow and I join forces," observed the speculator; "I'm sure I shall have no objection." 
               "It must be borne in mind," continued Rufels, his eye lighting up with its daring and its enthusiasm, "that life or death are things to be put out of consideration. Onward through every obstacle, every danger, every privation; onward must be the motto and the mode. You will see nature in an aspect which perhaps may strike such terror into you as will prompt you to return. Go on, and conquer nature. Do you turn your bold looks where nature frowns fearfullest, and very soon you will see that what you dreaded has become familiar. I will provide you with some distilled waters, which have a rare and priceless virtue known only to myself, and which I elaborated at the cost of many a night of toil and study. Sick, fainting or hungry, these for a time almost miraculous will sustain life and strength, for I must not disguise from you that water may be scarce and food as rare. The means of always obtaining a light you must carry, and a recipe which I will give you, for the converting of coarse and fibrous grass into food for the time, will give confidence in the midst of the most utter privations." 
               "Spoken like an admiral taking his ship into battle," said old Leechline, giving the table a smack which made it quiver again. "Ecod, gentlemen, if you don't funk, we shall astonish the world;" and while the others murmured their approbation, the party broke up. Gervase remained to observe Maria Rufels, who had listened like one asleep to all that had been said, and who now rose and mechanically crossed the floor. 
               In the cabin there stood a piano, never opened since the Lively Sally sailed from Bristol, and this piano, by a clever contrivance, enlarging itself, to suit the limited space of necessity allotted it, had hardly been known to exist. This, however, Maria Rufels opened, and sitting down, still like one in a dream, her fingers wandered over the keys in a prelude so wild and sombre, yet with modulations so matchless and perfect, as showed she was a perfect mistress of the instrument. 
               Gervase was astonished. It had surprised him to hear her speak with equal fluency French, German, and English. Now, however, her voice, as if irrepressible, broke out into an Italian cantata, with such a passion of wailing sorrow, to which her rich ringing, harp-like contralto voice, (cultivated to the highest degree of the vocal art, the young man doubted not,) gave an effect which our impressionable hero felt in every fibre of his frame. 
               All changed now, and the words were English. 
               Like the low murmur of a dying swan the tones fell, and presently in a crescendo that rang clear through the whole ship, and made the amazed seamen look on all sides of the 
                   
                     SAVAGE JACK AND MARIA RUFELS. 
                  
                  
                   sea, in order to assure themselves that no mermaids were attempting to beguile them, the strains of fear, of farewell, of doubt and terror, died away into utter silence. It was the lament of Dido or neas, taken from Purcell's opera of the same name. The voice was mute and the cords were still. 
               "How cruel of you to have hidden this gift from us for so long a time," said Gervase, in a low tone by her side. "I have rarely seen such perfected accomplishments so united." 
               She started, blushed slightly, and smiled. "You have yet to know more of me," she replied with a laugh. "I have not yet exhausted my-accomplishments." Gervase fell back a step, for the smile on her superb mouth changed into a bitter and ironic grimace, and her face grew white and death-like. Turning round he saw that Rufels stood before him with corrugated brows. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE ARRIVAL.-THE DEPOSIT.-THE DEPARTURE OF THE GOLD-SEEKERS. 
               "I WAS complimenting Madame Rufels on a gift I had not before known her to possess," said Gervase, as if apologizing. 
               "And she replied-" began Rufels. 
               "She replied," interrupted Maria, with a cold proud air, "that there remained yet several accomplishments with which he was unacquainted, and which would greatly surprise him when made known." 
               "Indeed!" said Rufels, fixing his glittering eyes upon her. 
               "Indeed," she repeated. "Are you surprised, Herr Rufels? You surely know, do you not, that-" 
               "Yes, yes," he hastily returned; "but possibly," and the expression of his face gave way to a polite and undefined sneer, "the accomplishments of ladies are matters which Mr. Murray may hold in indifference." 
               "In that case," said Maria, "I shall be compelled to change my opinion of him in matters of taste." 
               "Do not do anything of the kind, I beg," said Gervase, smiling as easily as he could, for these belligerent looks struck him with much significance; so much so, that it was possible, on landing, the relationship existing between those two persons might be totally changed; and as he had already arrived at some portion of their secret, the rest, quite as mysterious, might thus escape. "I should be sorry to suffer in your estimation," he continued to Maria, "and without pretending to be a judge of music, I must confess, the little I have heard would not suffer in the comparison if you had attempted a rivalry." A smile of singular meaning now crossed Rufels' face, as the young man bent his head and lifted up Maria's five fingers to his lips, and then half-reluctantly released them, while in her eyes a kind of exulting fire burned, which with all his distraction did not escape Gervase, nor the lynx eye of the German. 
               "Come, come," said Rufels, more gayly, "while you are exchanging politenesses, the bustle on deck announces that we are in sight of land;" and presently there resounded through the vessel the welcome cry of "Land!" and Rufels, together with Maria, hastened up the companion, leaving Gervase behind them lost in thought. 
               Taking the opportunity of Captain Leechline's entering the cabin at the instant, Gervase told him of the arrangements he had made with his friend, Bob Jackson, for the latter's playing the part of supercargo for him, and that it was desirable this should be as profound a secret as any other that they now shared, with especial reference to the passengers. The captain at first appeared surprised and even annoyed, but on the young man representing that such an officer was necessary in order to relieve him (the captain) of a good deal of trouble and responsibility, and also that the time of the confederates would be so occupied and taken up with the attainment of the prospects before them, for which it was absolutely necessary that they should be untrammeled and as free as possible, the captain finally and with a good will gave his assent, and agreed that Bob should go on shore alone, see the consignees, and make every arrangement that business and the valuable cargo demanded from them. This done, they joined the others on deck, where the whole, crew and all, were assembled, gazing at the gradually rising line of coast, while distant mountain tops, far, far away, indicated vast ridges which the adventurers would have to pass, ere they could attain to the region marked out for them. 
               It must be premised at the same time that the Lively Sally, having sailed by the southern coast, and through Bass' Straits, they were now on the south-eastern side, and were passing a line of huge precipitous cliffs, whose bleak grimness made up for what was wanting in the picturesque. These cliffs became in appearance like a gigantic wall, and still sailing on, all at once the mariner observes a breach as from a cannonading of Titans. The pilot is on board, and while the passengers are gazing with a kind of awe upon this stupendous passage way, nearly a mile wide, the noble ship bounds onward, and finds herself in a short time swinging at her anchor in the harbor of Port Jackson. This port is said to be fifteen miles long, three wide, and offers shelter to ships of the largest bulk built. The mariners have lost sight of the stormy ocean, and gaze upon a shore whose sweeping and gently swelling slopes, are dotted by white houses, churches, edifices, and a forest of masts,-suggestive of some happy valley, newly discovered on the verge of an eternal waste. There was the light-house, the hospitals, the custom-house, the forts, and so on, just as in an English scene; but the clear sky, the blue waters of the bay, and the appearance of the verdure beyond, told all, that if the foreground reminded them of things they had been familiar with, the rest indicated quite a different country, and their hearts beat high with those vague, indefinite emotions of hope and doubt consequent upon a total change in place, position and purpose. 
               Bob Jackson departed with the captain in the first shore-boat that came, while Gervase remained on board, a proceeding that Rufels had watched unremittingly; and while the seamen were up aloft handing in and furling sails, under the inspection of the captain, the passengers of the cabin held a hasty conference as to what they had better do. 
               "Go on shore and start off at once," said Smith, the speculator, quickly. "What's the good of losing time?" 
               Roger Wattles laughed right out, and slapping him on the shoulder, swore there was no fear of any time being lost with him, but in the meantime they had better go on shore and take lodgings at an hotel for the first day or two, till they had made definite arrangements for departing; and in effect it was agreed that they should go ashore in a body, and take rooms or lodgings at the hotel, which a "touter," who had scrambled on deck, very zealously recommended them to by the medium of a printed card, which reminded Gervase of the "business" customs of Bristol, Liverpool, or London. 
               On speaking to the captain, the latter ordered the cutter to be hoisted out, and the passengers, with no present care for their heavier luggage, but simply securing their more portable valuables, descended the side, after giving gratuities to the stewards, and a trifle subscribed for the men. Plaistow, Wattles, Smith and Rufels were already in the boat, where the sturdy oarsmen were impatiently waiting for them, when an event occurred, which, though it detained them a few minutes, gave Gervase a new interest in one person not yet descended. 
               Maria Rufels was standing in the gangway, wrapped in her cloak, adjusting her veil over her face preparatory to descending, when some one blundered against her, with an "Ax yer pardon, marm;" and the voice deepened into a whisper, which implied that the interruption was designed; a whisper but too well known. "Don't you forget me, or I shan't forget you, and take care as I sees you soon-a business mind-and look out if you fail." 
               She shook as one in palsy; but after the pause of a single instant, in which instant she had made up her mind, she lifted up her veil from her bloodless face, and in a firm deliberate voice said to him, "Dog! scoundrel! villain! Do but molest me again-do but accost me again-do but cross my path once more, and you shall spend your life in chains, or hang on the highest gallows in the colony." 
               The man had fallen back thunderstruck. His lips too, were blanched and livid. In his evil eyes there was a lurid glare of fear and wrath; but the former evidently predominated. 
               "Begone, ruffian! and for your own sake trouble me no more." 
               "Ah ha! my fine madam," he said griping her arm, "that's your game, is it? but burn my limbs if I don't match you." 
               "Let me go; I'll call for help. Mr. Murray," she added aloud, "pray protect me from the impertinence of this fellow." 
               "What's the matter here?" asked Gervase, hurrying up, while the full-blown beauty of Savage Jack's sinister face struck him for the first time on the passage. "Now, my man, what do you want with this lady?" 
               "What's that to you?" said the seaman with a horrible oath. "Don't you go playing the Captain Grand with me, or I'll sqeeeze your wind for you, if I don't--" Here he uttered a volley of imprecations, and the ruffian's animus was clearly uppermost. 
               "Stand back out of the way," said Gervase quietly. 
               With an oath the other refused, and made a blow at the youth which the other failed to receive from his stepping back. At this moment, too, most unfortunately for Jack Savage, Gervase's hand lighted on a marlinspike of lignum vit, and without compunction he bestowed on the sailor a blow under the ear that sent him rolling to the deck, bleeding like a slaughtered ox; and without bestowing another thought upon him, handed Maria Rufels over the side, and followed her, leaving the seaman to the care of the black cook. 
               "Thanks, eternal thanks to you," Maria said in a half whisper, deep, earnest, and thrilling in his ear, as they were being pulled ashore. "You do not know-you cannot guess-what you have saved me from." 
               "Pray do not speak so," replied Gervase, "of so trifling a service." 
               "Trifling!" echoed Maria; and he saw that the strong woman gave an irrepressible shiver, as if a sudden icy blast had stricken her. 
               "I had no idea that he had annoyed you before," said Gervase, "and if I had I should have prevented it." 
               "Thank you," said she, hastily; and then casting one half-fearful glance at the ship, she fell silent, and only looked to the shore as if filled with a new interest. They were soon landed, and found comfortable lodgings, at a moderate rate, within the walls of a hotel newly erected, which was as big as a palace. 
               Some few days passed away without any movement being made; but one morning they were all summoned by note from Rufels, to a general council, held in a private chamber of the Royal Victoria Hotel, and there and then the German intimated to them that he was now ready to accompany them to the bank, there to deposit each 200, and to take what surplus they had or pleased, in order to proceed by a coasting vessel for Port Adelaide (South Australia) and thence they could make for the Torrens Lake. As there was a perfect unanimity on the subject, they at once proceeded in a body, and the money was deposited in one book, and in their joint names. This book was, by common consent, intrusted with Maria Rufels (the matter of the trust in this respect not appearing to be of any consequence), who was to remain at Melbourne as at head-quarters; and Gervase won the entire respect of the German by confiding to her his papers also, though of what value they were or were to be, did not appear, only doubtless Rufels cherished such an idea. 
               There seemed to be so little reason for further delay, that all became impatient to be gone; and while the German went to hire a smart sailing coaster, in order to take their passage, the others made their arrangements as to arms, ammunition, clothing, and so on. Gervase, in the interim, had a final interview with the captain, who was busied with preparations for the unloading of his ship, and one with Bob Jackson, from whose report he found that everything was progressing in a highly satisfactory manner, and half-playfully bidding him beware of forgetting his sister "Fanny," or the little pastry-cook by the "Hot Wells," or the flashing eyes of Maria Rufels-a hint which Bob received, however, with a smiling countenance-he bade his old companion good-bye. On the evening before their departure, the vessel and passage-room being found, he happened, as much by chance as design, to meet with Maria herself enjoying the fresh air in one of the fine balconies of the hotel, and was proceeding in his usual quiet way to take leave of her, when, with something like a veritable emotion, she seized his hand, and said, "God bless and protect you, for I doubt you little dream of the dangers which you now--" 
               "Dangers!" repeated the youth, with a smile; "I only share those of the others, and we are sure to guard and to protect each other." 
               "I tell you, Gervase Murray, to beware!" she said. 
               "Of whom?" he demanded, somewhat impatiently. 
               "Of him principally," she slowly replied, fixing her calm and inflexible eye upon his face, as though to witness what result her communication would have upon him. "Of him principally, whom they call my husband;" and she gave a short ironic laugh. 
               "Who are you, then, that exercise so unaccountable a power over him-over me-?" asked Gervase, with a start. 
               "Over him!" and her lips paled. "It is not so. It is he who has power over me-a terrible power, which I dare not-dare not explain;" and she buried her face in her hands, then lifted it up with no trace of past emotion upon it, but wore instead a smile of light. "Over you, perhaps I do, because you are young, frank, and full of fine, youthful impulses; and because, as a gentleman, you would incline to shelter a woman who has no protector." 
               "But this man of whom you bid me beware-is he not your husband?" asked our hero, more and more amazed, but still pleased in secret at the interest he appeared to have awakened. 
               She shook her head and murmured, "No," then added hastily, "but for God's sake do not betray me; rather kill me at once than do that, and ask me no further questions regarding him." 
               "At least you can tell me this," said the astonished Gervase: "you can intimate to me the kind of danger, and you can tell me why I seem to be menaced more than any other." 
               "You are not menaced more than any other," returned Maria. "Are you not engaged in a tontine where the last survivor has claim to all? It is a game of life or death. Rufels is a daring, designing man, who scruples at nothing and hesitates at no act. Look to your life; for that is the way my caution lies. Hush!-he comes-they are all here." 
               And all, headed by Rufels, entered, gay and full of expectation. The German gave a start as usual, and cast a keen, inquiring glance at Maria, who only returned it with one of the greatest indifference; but instantly assuming an aspect of joy, he said that all was ready, their restricted luggage, arms and so on aboard, and called for a bowl of punch, in order that their last hour on shore, previous to their embarking on their enterprise, should be full of hilarity. An hour or two were thus passed, (for Maria had retired, after shaking hands with all,) and each retired to his rest. 
               "Do I love that woman?" asked Gervase of himself, when he was alone. "Are these feeling so painful, so delicious-these emotions so new? are they those of love? She is more beautiful, more accomplished than any woman I ever met with. Who is she? Why is she here? And how is it, that I find her so singularly leagued with a desperate adventurer like Rufels? for such undoubtedly he is. The secret of his power cannot be a good, a virtuous one. Can it be possible that-but no; such a thought is too frightful to contemplate. And then the threats of the seaman. She trembled at him-who, who can this woman be, that is bound to a knave, and over whose indomitable mind a rascal,-who may have been a convict for aught I know-has such a away? I must, I will find it out. My old uncle, Richard Murray, merchant of Bristol, would stare to see me bringing home a wife, of whose antecedents I can give no history. Be still, my heart; I will leave no stone unturned to unravel the whole scheme; and as for you, Master Rufels, forewarned is forearmed; and clever as you are, I will get the weather-gage of you. To leave her here, here under the ridiculous espionage of that still more ridiculous Bob Jackson, who will, without the fear of my sister Fanny, or his quondam flame the pretty pastry-cook, make love to her. Zounds! I wish I had confided in him-but no matter-no mat-"and after a little more confused murmuring, Gervase fell into a restless, dreamy sleep, where he saw Rufels and Bob conspiring to kill him by turns, and Maria vainly endeavoring to save him. 
               From this sleep he was awakened early by the German, and dressing himself and going down, finding all ready-after a hearty breakfast, they embarked on board the brig auspiciously named the Halcyon, which then hoisted her sails, and stood out to sea. And not to lengthen this portion of our story unnecessarily, suffice it to say, that they arrived, after some days' sail, at their destination, Adelaide; and thence crossing the country, they found themselves well stocked, provisioned, and in good health, sailing on Lake Torrens, in a large, but not very smart boat they had purchased from a distressed whaler in the great bay. Rufels was elected the chief of the expedition, while Gervase was unanimously made the sailing-master, and the rest very obediently, and with great good will, did whatever they were ordered to do. The weather was fine, the sky clear, the waters of the lake, which at times are lashed into a boiling surge like that of the ocean in a tempest, were comparatively calm, and steering for the northern extremity by the compass, they were, ere the morning of the fourth day broke, in sight of the beetling cliff, which gray and basaltic, presented an almost perpendicular wall to oppose them at the northern extremity, after having sailed in a direct line some one hundred and fifty or sixty miles. 
               They allowed the boat to advance to the side, and gazed with a sentiment of awe into the clear and seemingly unfathomable depths which continued from the grim dark wall; for the waters were so translucent that there seemed to be no bottom; and past the reflected ridge, hundreds of yards below, there seemed to be nothing but an expansive flow of blue, ethereal blue, without a cloud upon it. It seemed awful to be suspended thus upon a medium so fine; for the bulk and weight of the boat, together with its crew, gave the more timid the idea that it would fall through-fall into the infinite, fathomless depths. Not a tree was to be seen on the arid shore-nothing but rocks, wild, fantastic,-a black and frowning boundary which, coupled with the universal silence, deep as death, and impressive as desolation, gave all for the first time an idea of Nature in her sublime and unique simplicity. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE JOURNEY. 
               A CURSE, that sounded blasphemously, sacreligiously breaking the Sabbath stillness, called the attention of the startled men. It was directed towards poor Smith, who, in his dismay at this almost awful scene, expanse above, expanse below, water on the one hand, and a towering precipice on the other, extending for miles, right and left, apparently, had let the coffee-pot tumble overboard. It was uttered by Plaistow. They watched the sinking utensil with a thrill. Down, down, as if gliding through ether, it went, till the sense ached with the dizzy depth. At last it was lost in the shadow of the rock, though the Yorkshireman still gazed as though he expected it to appear far below the reflected summits; but they saw it no more. 
               "We must find a landing-place," said Rufels; "there is one, I know, and we must now use the oars," and they began to pull, Gervase steering the while. 
               What added to the amazement of Gervase was, that in this region the concussion of elementary substances appeared to produce no sound. The oars plashed not in the water, as generally is the case, but rather clave it, and not from any skill on the part of the rowers. The others were too busy to observe it, perhaps, and so they proceeded thus for about an hour, when all at once Gervase gave a subdued cry, and exclaimed, "Yonder it is-yonder is an opening! We shall find a landing-place-pull away!" and pull away they vigorously did, until they found themselves placed with increased amazement right in the opening. 
               This opening consisted of a yawning rift some three hundred feet wide, at least two thousand feet in perpendicular height, and apparently as smooth as though it had been cut by a chisel. To gaze out from the lonely solitude where they floated, with neither bird, beast, tree, or blade of grass, around them, upon the beautiful and magnificent scene that lay stretched out before them, an infinite level of verdure-the Australian bush in all its luxuriance-was a most inexpressible relief. With renewed satisfaction, they now pulled up this passage, which appeared to be as deep as the sea they had just left; and it was not till they had proceeded some half a mile, that under a precipitous bluff they saw a pleasant knoll, which, by the remains of an old hut built upon it, they knew to have been inhabited; and here it was they determined to land, refresh themselves, and examine the locality before finally parting for the central sea where gold and the diamond were in store for them. 
               They landed on a rock that was iron to the touch, and fastening the boat securely, mounted to the bluff, and proceeded to light a fire in the hut-a process sooner thought of than done, for the want of wood; and but that some former adventurers had left a wreck of materials behind them, they would have been obliged to have recourse to the spirit-lamp. Coffee was made, dried flesh roasted, while biscuits and boiled eggs made up, with a glass of brandy each, the reinvigorating meal. 
               "This ain't so bad a place to live in, I don't think," observed Albertus Magnus, as they surveyed the country northward from a lofty eminence, and saw the boundless promise which its present uncultured pastures offered. 
               "You will traverse that for sixty or eighty or even a hundred miles," said Rufels, "and then you come to the tract where difficulties first really begin to beset you. We have at least some five hundred miles to go; so I leave you to guess how stoutly you must keep your hearts up. Our boat will be here useless to us, but we must lay it up in safe shelter against our return; and the signal that any have arrived, must be our presence at this hut, or, if absent, for nothing must permit any who return first to depart but the most pressing exigency,-scarcity of food, or some such reason; and if such be the case, a cloth must be left flying-a note written and nailed to the wall-anything, in fact, that may suggest itself, but rendered legible, and not to be missed at a glance;" and there seemed so much reason in this that there was not a dissentient voice. 
               "Now," continued Rufels, "as there was originally a plan of dividing ourselves into three parties, it may perhaps be better to divide into two only, for greater help and greater safety. You, Mr. Murray--" 
               "I join with Mr. Wattles here," said Gervase, indicating the burly Yorkshireman, who, at the sight of the plains, only desired a good active horse to scour them; "and we will go straight ahead northward." 
               "And in that case, Smith, Plaistow and myself will go together more eastward; for it has been proved that a line drawn diagonally from here to the Gulf of Carpentaria, would go through endless wastes, barren sand valleys, whose awful desolation we have no conception of, a country, as one who explored it farthest in the easterly direction, described as being a desert ever widening to the view, without the vestige of a single stone to show that there was aught but sand, bog, or syrtys, to show where the ground gives way beneath the foot. Consequently, by proceeding straight forward far enough, and by attempting finally to meet as near the 20th parallel of latitude, and 135th of longitude as possible, we may between us, not only hit upon the golden region, but fall together all the sooner. You have a compass, so have I. Let us share the arms and ammunition; I will give you some of the restorative elixir I spoke of, together with a few other chemicals of the greatest value in a place where it is barely possible we may cross the track of a native, and then, with cordial wishes, part to take our respective ways." 
               They returned to the boat, and by their united efforts, drew it out of the water, and placed it in shelter from the fierce rays of the sun. They stowed away some spare clothing and other necessaries they might hereafter require more than at this moment, besides that it was judicious to lighten themselves as much as possible. 
               Then, dividing powder, shot, brandy, tobacco, the exhaustless means of obtaining light, with other things, among them, they girded up their loins, and for a time travelled together till they came to the verge of the great wilderness, and ere long the two parties were totally lost to each other. 
               And certainly they now began to have some conception of the vastness of the wilderness through which they had to travel. Over a ground covered with strong, stubbly-looking grass, which the Yorkshireman regarded with a critical eye, and then, with a shrug of the shoulders, as the sapless and fibrous-looking herbage suggested, here at least, fodder would have been a hopeless matter, they bent their way. Billowy waves of this coarse grass, flecked and dotted with a thousand flowers, extended for miles and miles before them, and dim, looming shadows on the horizon seemed to indicate something like a wooded district, but so vague that they might have been caused by the sky itself; as, glancing horizontally, the denser medium of the air lost that clear lucidity which it had above them. Brightly as the sun shone, too, and in a tropic region, nothing that Gervase had ever read or seen of the tropics was to be found here. The luxuriant vegetation in the same latitude elsewhere, was totally absent, neither was the heat so intense. 
               Rufels had also told them, that to avoid the thin, whip-like snakes that might be abundant, a switch was necessary, a stroke from which across the body would paralyze the reptile at once, and leave it at their mercy. Among the really valuable things that the German had given them, was a vegetable decoction, a kind of paste, which would render the bite of any reptile innoxious. The eyes of our speculator gloated over this with other "nostrums," as Roger Wattles termed them, and he thought what a fortune in quackery even the German and he might have made in London. 
               Turning at last to take a parting look at the huge mountainous rampart which divided the plains from the Torrens Lake, they were struck at the wild and stately grandeur that they exhibited. The landward side was as opposite in aspect to the lake side as possible; for while the one was smooth and perpendicularly precipitous, here were enormous masses like young mountains of rock, tumbled in the most confused manner, just as if they had been emptied like stones out of a cart on the road-side from some supernatural wagon. Not a tree, nor a blighted trunk, not a bit of herbage could be distinguished near or upon them. If they had been upheaved from the central earth by some volcanic action, they could not have had a more confused and scorched appearance. Not as though they had been fused, but cracked asunder by heat-roasted, rather-and cast in confused heaps as a boundary to the silent waters over which they stood sentinel-wise, frowning in utter silence over the abysses. 
               On they went-the sun at noon, the moon and stars by night; and the German had not predicted wrongly when he told them they might count on meeting with young kangaroos. They did so, and shot several; the sharp rattling echoes of the explosion appearing to fill all space. The flesh, when broiled upon a fire made of dried grasses, was found to be highly palatable. And it was now that Gervase proved to the knowing Wattles that his ideas respecting the grasses he had sneered at were incorrect, for it was the principal food of these animals; and however dry and sapless it looked, it still contained a considerable quantity of nourishment and sap too; and to prove it, he bade him take a piece and gnaw it between his teeth, and the result was a copious flow of juice; and said Roger, "A capital thing for thirst, if we should ever be hard up for water." 
               "Which we are not at all unlikely to be," responded the other, as they went bravely on. 
               Day after day they travelled, and still as yet they had not quitted the plains, where, along with the tall grass, they saw ferns, nettles, and flowers, mingled with the sassafras-plant, which they warmly welcomed. At times, where the vegetation grew thickest in the loose, rotten loam, they saw flowering plants of the most beautiful kind creeping, bramble-like, on the ground. Occasionally they disturbed the serpents nestling under them, who attacked the travellers, unhesitatingly springing clear up in the air with violence almost terrifying, till struck across the body by the switch, they fell in writhing masses on the ground, and died. 
               Now and then they came to springs of water in a sandy basin, that, bubbling over, seemed to lose themselves in the surrounding soil, without in the slightest degree contributing to the irrigation of the waste, unless by some underground formation. No fruit-trees nor a berry, no edible vegetation, however, did they pass; and still as yet they all journeyed on in their different routes without meeting with any serious discouragement. At night they camped beside a fire they kindled-if such could be called camping-and while one watched, the other slept; and thus for a time let us with them pass over a vast interval of country, which, in the diverging routes, might be characterized as being pretty much alike. 
               At last, however, the aspect of the plains began into swelling uplands. Trees of noble growth, but still thinly scattered, made their appearance; and here the opossum, the kangaroo, with several varieties of birds, also greeted the eye, and gave the adventurers an agreeable sense of change, besides affording some fuel and better shelter. The grasses, too, changed to fine swelling swards, rich and velvety, as any that Roger Wattles had ever seen on the banks of the bonny Don; and the yeoman's heart beat fast at the picture his imagination drew of a cozy farm, a running river, flocks of sheep, herds of cattle, and a communication with the coast, anywhere, anyhow. He would be richer than a prince with such a share of the bounteous earth as his unlimited range of vision took in one picturesque bit after another. Odoriferous shrubs filled the air with a perfume such as the roses do in the country in an English June, only the odor was different, but quite as rich. They found abundance of reeds too, the pith of which, Gervase had been taught could be made into nutritious bread. He tried it-kneaded some, baked a cake on the embers, and, with the flesh of an opossum, they made a meal which added to the enjoyment of the unwonted liberty, freedom, and almost riotous health their immense journey afforded them. 
               They travelled slower now, and shorter distances every day. They knew not how soon they might encounter the natives-for, of course, this part must have inhabitants, since it afforded the means of sustenance, and they were more and more cautious-more on the alert against surprise. Their boots, worn out, had given place to substitutes made of kangaroo skin, which they found soft, yielding, and protective. Water also proved abundant with them; and, but for the apprehension-now daily growing stronger-of meeting with the bushmen, (the native Australians,) they had little or no anxiety beyond the aim of their journey, three-fourths, if not more, of which, Gervase calculated had been completed-for nearly six weeks had gone by in accomplishing what we have summed up in so small an amount of space. Their true difficulties, as all knew, were only about to begin. 
               One day, while Gervase and his companion were, gun on shoulder, diving into a valley to which they came most unexpectedly, they saw, for the first time, a broad, beautiful river running through its very heart, the other side being green and bushy vast wooded heights-the nearest approach to English scenery, saving the swards and pastures the Yorkshireman had coveted so eagerly-and started back simultaneously on seeing beneath a furzy bush an animal, either asleep or dead. It was not a lion or a tiger, nor a kangaroo, the former not being in Australia; the latter too well known-the over-grown rat-to be mistaken. In effect, when they had scanned it at a distance, they saw it was a dog-a native dog-panting as if from the chase, but really perishing from hunger, as its thin sides and starved limbs showed. 
               "If we either of us ever met a friend in our lives, Roger," said Gervase, hastily, as he flung down his gun and took out his wallet, where the remains of some cold opossum and pith-cake were left, "we have met one now-poor fellow-poor dog there;" and he placed the food before the animal, and took the India-rubber sack in which they carried water, and allowed a little to trickle into his mouth. 
               The grateful eyes of the singular-looking yet fine animal, if ever dog turned them up to heaven in gratitude, he did so on this occasion. He drank the water, ate some food off a tin dish in which it was placed, and then, as Gervase was kneeling by him, began to lick his hand. 
               "Roger, there's a canoe on the brook yonder!" exclaimed Gervase, suddenly, as he lifted up his eyes after returning the caresses of the dog by patting his head. "Some natives have been here, and have either lost or abandoned the dog-and since that cannot be very long ago, they must be in the neighborhood. Hurry down and launch it carefully; lose nothing, not a paddle; hurry off, while I carry this poor fellow down. He'll be of more help to us than you or I can tell;" and, slinging back his wallet, taking up the dog in one arm, and his gun in the other, with soothing words to the grateful animal, who continued to lick his hands and face, he followed the Yorkshireman to the canoe, a large rudely-constructed vessel, roughly carved out of a mighty old trunk supplied by some Titan of the wilderness-that had grown many a mile from the spot they now occupied, however-into which they both got; and, while the dog lay quiet and perfectly content at the bottom, they pushed it off from the shore, and began to glide away gently with the current. 
               "If I am not much mistaken," said Gervase, "this river disembogues itself in the central sea we seek. We are now in the right track, and our difficulties are perhaps lessened, God knows! but paddle away, man-we have no time to lose, and we must get out of the reach of any present danger." And for the next two hours they applied themselves to their work, till the waning sun and a change of scene told them that they might rest awhile. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A MYSTERIOUS REGION. 
               WE do not promise to follow our two groups of adventurers in the minuter details of their journey, but only sufficiently to indicate those more striking and leading incidents of their long and perilous way, which being in themselves extraordinary, will also possess a sufficient interest for the reader to repay him for the trouble of perusal. Leaving Gervase and his companion, the stout Yorkshireman, to take their easier way in the canoe of the aboriginals down the river, we will cast a glance towards Rufels fels and his two associates, in order to see with what success they were likely to complete their adventures. 
               Rufels, who, in the outset, had intended to journey alone, had, as we have already stated, changed his intention; and whether this was owing to the doubts he had of Plaistow and Smith being enabled to make their way at all without his guidance; or if he had secret reasons, which he did not trouble himself to give, suffice it to say, that he soon found he had little to count upon if he trusted to the originality or the invention of either. Still, he did not continually remain with them, but, on the contrary, quitted them frequently. He would, on starting in the morning, after the halt and rest of the night, direct them to pursue their way towards some distant object-a hill, a tree-some visible landmark of any kind, that might be seen boldly marked on the horizon, and, bidding them press forward, turning neither to the right or left, but for their lives to follow the course pointed out; he himself would dive into the wilderness to right or left, and, like a man who knew every foot of the ground, (though, indeed, he only acted by a boldness and sagacity peculiar to himself,) he would make a circle of the country, and sometimes arriving first, would wait for their tardier coming; only if he found their path unimpeded, while his, on the contrary, might be full of difficulty, they would have to wait for him: and thus they, too, for days and days plodded on without mishap, and with no other results than the inuring of themselves to hardship, and the diminishing of the distance they had to travel. At first, this bore somewhat heavily on the feebler speculator; but besides that his eagerness and avidity gave him both strength and courage to face the dreary length of road, there was in his disposition a natural elasticity, a perpetual springiness of temperament, that stood him in better stead, perhaps, than the more solid bulk and sinews of the imaginative Plaistow; and while the latter grew morose and surly, Smith expanded genially under the influence of the delicious climate and the breezy air; and when the idea of the brilliant success awaiting them struck him, now and then, in its fantastic and glittering light, he was, foot-sore and hungry though he might be, at once gay as a lark. Having permitted them, therefore, without much attention to their difficulties, to have accomplished more than one-half, perhaps three-fourths, of the distance, we will join them on their route, as a new system of nature was revealing itself to their astonished eyes. 
               They had quitted the plains at last-the most unpicturesque deserts, with their miles upon miles of grasses, of slippery loam, of sandy clay, of more promising herbage, and of stunted trees and tangled seas of brushwood; when one day their path led them into a swarded defile of singular beauty. 
               Without tending downward very perceptibly, still there was an unquestionable incline to their path, while on both sides of them the grassy mound and hillocks grew into vaster proportions, and large umbrageous trees, of novel shape and form, began to fringe their sides and crown their summits. Before them this green roadway led on windingly, mile upon mile, so that they could not calculate from any portion of the distance they beheld ahead, where or how this attractive valley led. That it was long, tortuous, and on a scale proportionate to the vastness of this vast country, they knew well, from the fact that night after night they bivouacked in it, and day after day proceeded onwards. It was easy travelling however. They were sheltered from the mid-day heats and the chill of the evening. They had no lack of food nor of fresh water; for there trickled from the fissures in the sides lucid rivulets of the clearest element either had ever drank of. Still the monotony was very great, and it was only the idea of the novelty they must arrive at by this gradually wider spreading deepening valley, that prevented dissatisfaction. In worse conditions they might have been better pleased. 
               At once, one early morning ere the sun was in the zenith, they came to its very extreme, its verge, its abrupt termination, and all drew back with a cry of mingled terror and astonishment; for a scene was laid before their eyes such as few men had ever gazed upon: and Rufels, who had visited in his time every country on the globe, except indeed the Himalayas and higher India, vowed that never in his journeyings had he witnessed aught like it. 
               This beautiful and treacherous path, which the German conjectured to have been the bed of a river, terminated at once in a precipitous descent, sheer and level as a wall, of about two thousand feet, as near as they could calculate, though possibly the giddy height and verge might deceive them as to the real measurement. 
               Below was a valley-fertile, wooded, sheltered, lovely and beautiful as the fabled vale of Tempe, and extending away to the northwest for a limitless extent-for hundreds of miles seemingly. No fairer vision perhaps ever broke upon the eye of man. It was full of copses, "mossy dells," undulating pasture lands. Ponds, like lakes, like seas, dotted this enormous panorama, and wild herds of an unknown kind, but having an affinity with the ruminantia, were seen specking the distance. The smoke, too, of the native kralls or villages, were seen, pigmy figures in the foreground proved that they were in the locality of the original dwellers of Australia, whose presence they did not by any means covet, though they had no reason to dread them, except in over-whelming numbers, since their rifles were a protection as potent as an "army with banners." 
               The edge of the precipice whereon they stood, and which terminated this dried-up river course, extended in a semi-circular direction for a million of miles. To the left it wound away out of sight. To the right or directly north, they beheld the grim, dark red wall-massive, huge-an immensity of granite structure, stretching until lost in the horizon. Beyond all, gleaming peaks, so far distant away as to take the appearance of mountains formed of clouds, told the panting heart of the German that his conjectures of a central mountain system was correct; for yonder they stood, and they were on the right path, without descending into the attractive plain; a thing which did not appear possible. 
               But how came this singular and unusual formation to pass? How was it that, having already crossed a plain that measured its diameter by hundreds of miles, they beheld a plain as vast in extent still beneath them? And how happened it that the verge should be so mechanically perfect in defiance of every known geological law? These were questions which Rufels put to himself, and tasked himself to answer, while smith (who boasted of having been up Mount Blanc) and Plaistow (who had once seen Brazilian steppes) were giving utterance to the most commonplace platitudes, out of which nothing in the shape of information could be drawn. 
               The German remembered that while this abrupt boundary of the plain they traversed marked its northern limit, the mighty height above the waters of the lake Torrens, and its continuation, must mark its southern; for he remembered that descending the plains, the ground had risen by slow but graduating acclivities. Still this did not account, upon any known theory, for the violation of the geological systems accepted in the present day. Not being able to account for this, he wisely held his tongue. It was another proof of the anomalous in this country, and he consoled himself with the fact that they were all at least right in one thing, and in a fair way to accomplish it. 
               Perfectly secure, and infinitely enjoying all they saw, our adventurers lighted their fire, and made their coffee, cooked some kangaroo and other flesh, and, having baked a cake as Rufels directed, they made a relishing and hearty meal, and smoking their short and convenient pipes (tobacco being more portable than cigars), they reclined on the grass on the edge of the summit, and entered into a conversation, which became more of a consultation, perhaps, in the end, than either intended. 
               "What do you think of that, my boy?" asked Plaistow, tapping Smith on the shoulder, as he pointed to the country spread before them. 
               "I think that a building speculation of the most surprising kind could be raised out of it," was the sanguine reply. "Here we have clay for brick, and stone for the digging. There's water-power for you! Yonder are trees fit to build a fleet out of. I only wish I had the laying of it out. I'd have brick-fields and saw-mills, dock-yards, and stone-quarries at work in a week." 
               "Aha!" laughed Plaistow; "but where are your men?" 
               "That's the deuce of it," returned Smith. "Never mind that, however. When we get back, I'll draw up a prospectus, establish a company, and bring the whole world here in no time." 
               "You are not so far wrong there," said the German, starting out of a reverie. "There are indeed the elements of a new civilization, a new empire,-riches, wealth, power, and prosperity, beyond the wildest dreams. Your ideas may come to maturity sooner than you think." 
               "Good," said Smith, much flattered. "Make me the secretary, and I'll work like a horse, and beat, in prospectuses, George Robins out of the field. You shall be the managing director, and that young fellow, Gervase Murray, there's lots of pluck in him, he shall be overseer-anything that's active, for in my opinion he's invaluable in some things." 
               "He'll be wanting a share too," observed Plaistow, spitefully; "and a pretty large one, I expect." 
               There was an uneasy pause. "Well, what of that?" returned Smith, after a moment, promptly. "If he serves the purpose of a new company, there's surely plenty and to spare. Why," he added, tartly, "there's more yonder than even I could turn to use." 
               "You are proportioning it out already," said the German, laughing. "We have a good deal to do first before we can do more than think of it; and, as for the sufficiency, you might cut out a couple of small empires from its surface." 
               "I vote we take possession of it in the Queen's name, before we go," suggested the speculator, who rarely allowed the iron to get cold. 
               "Do," returned Plaistow, sarcastically "Descend, if you can, among yonder savages, and pronounce them subjects of the Queen of England, and you the delegated minister of the 'interior,' and see how they'll receive your communication. For my part," and he shrugged his shoulders, "I would give very little for your skin, supposing it is not roasted." 
               "By the way, talking of Murray and the Squire," said Rufels at this juncture, "I wonder how they have got on." 
               "Very likely they have given up, and gone back discouraged by this time," said Plaistow; who, on occasions, took leave to say very depreciatory things of the absent. 
               "Not a bit of it!" here broke in Smith, abruptly. 
               "I don't believe so either," assented Rufels: "for neither of the two belongs to the craven class. It will be 'forward!' with them in spite of every difficulty and every danger. Murray has a soul that expands where the opposition broadens out. Cool in danger, and calm in moments that suspend the very heart's pantings in others, he has all that an adventurous man could desire to have under such circumstances. As for Wattles, he is dogged as a bull, fearless as an English mastiff, and though of a slow, is of a steady temperament. I would wager that, unless accident has interfered with them, they are nearer yonder mountain region than we are; and," added he with a changed voice, and a flashing eye, while springing to his feet, "it is we who waste time. Come! one more look at our vale of promise-the Canaan of the future pilgrims from the beggared peasant's home; from the cheerless and defiled hearths of the oppressed English artisans, who may come seeking for what nature offers without stint or measure. Come! it is we who may be the masters here in time-rulers, as in the antique, pastoral ages. But, bah!" he added apart, "I am going, I think, to quote the Idyls of the poets to a cockney speculator, from Capel Court, and repeat the Bucolics to a man who has been a 'bonnet' at a 'hell!' Come, my friends," he added aloud, "a cup of brandy to the new pastorale of our friend Smith! May he be the secretary, I the director, and you-you," he turned to Plaistow with a laugh, "you the treasurer." The small cup passed round, and the men girding their belts tighter round their loose frocks, regrasping their arms, with a gay, glad, light laugh, followed the German, as he deviated to the right, and crossing the mighty granite plateau, traversed the sublime heights, till miles a-head, the grandeur of the opening continent-broad, vast, and overwhelming-commenced to unfold itself to them in all its simplicity. 
               On this high plain they travelled for some days, until once more a change began to take place; such as the traveller experiences, who leaves the German, the Lombardian, or the plains of southern France, to find himself climbing up to Switzerland, the Grisons, or the Valois. In stupendous might and majesty, and with a touch of overwhelming magnitude in extension, bulk, and height, the whole mountain ranges of the world seem to have been gathered here in bewildering proportions and forms, above and around them. Their heads were lost in clouds; but even here they scarcely know their altitude-perhaps a couple of miles-more or less-since they could only guess-they were below the cloudy zone that ever seemed to encircle them midway. There was the white, the blinding ice of ages, like a cape of ermine cast around their ample necks. At the base there were swards, brushwood, forests of strange trees, through which they climbed, and on and upward they breasted the path that now offered difficulties almost insuperable, allied with dangers from precipitous heights and gulfs which made the brain reel, and rendered what they had already seen almost contemptible to the imagination, now beginning to be expanded by comparison with the breathless scenes they had now become familiar with. 
               They began to dive farther and farther into the recesses of the mountain valleys, as they rose higher and higher, and soon lost all traces of the country they had passed through. Neither plain nor prairie, neither grassy slope nor undulating mounds, but valleys with sides that rose up in frowning and ominous silence beyond the limits of the clouds, and sounds of a grander, fear-fuller kind, now began to salute their ears; awful winds rioted with a roar above their heads-that was like the discharge of a battery of cannon. The thunder was like the crack of doom. When it lightened, they seemed to stand in a region whose sides were as if the world had been severed to the centre, and they placed within it; while overhead a canopy of fire burned, that blazed as though it were the conflagration of some other world brought into immediate neighborhood with their own. The roar of sounding cataracts began to peal, increased, thundered and boomed till the very foundations of the earth quaked beneath them. Two of the adventurers felt their awe and terror grow almost too stark. It seemed as if they were approaching a place where some mighty Anarch sat on his throne, and confounded all nature with his fantastic but appalling exercise of power. Every day they expected to behold some monstrous forms, some Titan shapes dwelling there, and fitted to the scale of this tremendous scenery. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE CENTRAL SEA. 
               IT was with sentiments of mingled terror and preternatural awe (for even the hardy German, with his sublime expansion of soul, was quelled), that one morning on their upward path, being considerably more than half-way up the steeps, they heard the deep, dreadful, resounding roar as of a thousand cataracts gathering force and intensity around them. Two were pallid and speechless with horror, and would have retreated but for Rufels, in whose eyes some desperate gleam was kindling. Up they clomb higher and higher, till at once the gorge opened out, and there before them was opened a scene, whose measureless vast of terror-breathing elements appeared to oppress them with a feeling of extinction. 
               They stood on a ledge many hundred yards wide, the two sides right and left being mountain walls towering far out of sight in the clouds. Across a chasm (the word is even too insignificant to express its immensity), across an abysm into which they dared not gaze, there rolled over from the opposite side a whole thunderous ocean of waters, solid, mighty, and irresistible. The cataract of Niagara vanished into the insignificance of a child's toy in comparison-as the German, who retained his faculties during his spell-bound gaze, acknowledged to himself. Level as a line for miles, right and left, the cataract extended, and whither it descended to even he dared not look-perhaps to the very depth of the mountain-perhaps in sheer fall there was the lapse of a mile or more. The sound was suggestive of nothing so much as of what we are accustomed to assimilate with the receding of the earth, the extinction as of sun and moon, and the dreamless terrors of the final doom of the world. The mountains trembled. The steam from the abysses rose in fleecy mists, but only aided the scene by giving to it the beauty of terror. The very idea, that between them and those descending avalanches of waters, might be a gulf into which no plummet could fathom or line fall, made the brain reel and the soul quake before this illustration of energy on a scale incalculable. 
               Look whatever way they would, nothing but rushing, roaring water could be seen. Far beyond the outer verge, the line over which they fell, they beheld mountains upon mountains covered with snows, doubtless the source of this oceanic tide. But turning the eye to the west, a level plain of water gleaming like a sea of molten silver, and extending beyond the limits of vision, told Rufels that there lay the sea on the shores of which they were to gather the treasures they sought. But how get there? How could they dare desecrate, with the sordid passion of gain, the solemnity of this unparalleled place? How could they even move in the presence of that living tide, that presiding Genie, so to speak, who held watch and ward over the portals? How could men whose limbs were unstrung with dread, whose souls were palsied with fear, pluck up courage to tamper with the dross and glitter they so greedily had sought, when such spectacles as these impressed them with the fancy that they had quitted their own universe, and were tenants, upon sufferance, of another world of wonders far mightier than any they ever dreamed of. Here, surely, was Milton's pandemonium without its fire and its demons. Here was Dante's hell, without its murky darkness and its tortured souls! What, in fact, were they to do? 
               The sounds, too, were so awful, that they could not have heard their own voices, even if any had dared to speak. The German was, in truth, the only man who, with a sang froid that showed the mighty moral strength of his nature, was not seized with a sudden impulse of madness which prompted his companions to rush to the very verge and plunge into chaos; for to nothing else could the unseen gulf be compared. Seeing in their wild eyes some touch of insanity, he started with a great effort, and by signs, gestures and force, compelled them to retrace their steps till the sounds of the cataracts were partially deadened. Then, giving each a little brandy, he said, "Courage! we must find a way to descend, for we have at last arrived at the region I have dreamed of, and then---" 
               But the speculator had fainted, and Plaistow lay on the ground in a state of inanition. The terror of the scene just witnessed had proved too much for them, and nature succumbed beneath it. 
               "It is well," muttered Rufels; "a moment longer, and they would have been lost, lost too soon!" and a strange smile flickered across his countenance, for even there his native hardihood quite returned, and the business of his coming rose again in all its vigor to him. "They will become used to all this shortly," he said. "Let them rest, let them sleep, and when they waken they will be fitter for action. It is well that these waters modify the cold of the upper regions, else our progress would have been hindered long ere this;" and setting to work, he lighted a fire, prepared a meal ready for the wakening of his companions, and sat him down to rest and think. For a time he had lost his own mastery, and wanted to compose himself thoroughly, so as to become dominant over the objects which had, like a spell, rendered him a slave to his own awe. 
                
               Leaving them for the present to make their way as they best could to the shores of that solitary sea, with its cataracts and solemn rivers, we now beg the reader to accompany us for a while, in order to see what progress Gervase and his companion were making. 
               With little trouble to themselves, their boat was slowly borne along the stream, being broad, but very gentle in its motion-a fact they congratulated themselves upon, in-asmuch as the difficulties of navigating their way back would be but few; and they amused themselves in watching the shifting scenery of the panorama before them. 
               On the one hand, the scale of vegetation hitherto familiar to them, began to give way to more elevated and swelling uplands; the trees became vast and thick, taking at last the aspect of a stately forest, whose beauty they were compelled to acknowledge at every turn. As is natural, where there is a sufficiency of moisture, the coarser grass of the steppes or plains became here of a rich and verdant hue, and more like an English sward than aught else. From the huge boles and trunks, wreathing into vast festoons, clustering with the most brilliant flowers, there stretched great bananas, whose cable-like stems, binding tree to tree, a dozen or fifteen feet above the ground, had all the effect of an enormous ball-room. Beneath these they could discern mighty alleys, carpeted with flowers, that lost themselves in the shady depths of the forest. In the trees there was heard, in the golden tints of the morning, the voice of the Australian magpie, or peep-o'-day bird, mingled with the hoarse cachinnatory notes of the "laughing jackass," a sort of king-fisher. In the waters, leaped and played around them myriads of fine fish, whose flesh was most delicious; some were even of a gigantic size, and of unknown form, chiefly of a snaky kind. At night, when they had caught any of the finny tribe, they would moor the boat securely to the shore, and there cooking their prey, eat it with relish; and more like two poets sailing to an azure heaven of beauty and repose, than like men in search of gold, they continued, day by day, their journey. 
               One evening, as they sailed along, having failed in finding a landing-place on either side from the increasing steepness of the shores, Roger Wattles lay down in the boat, to snatch a brief sleep, while Gervase guided her along. The young man himself, wrapped in his own thoughts, and the delicious silence of the calm evening as stars began to shine over head, had lost himself in reverie. He was thinking of a thousand things-of Maria Rufels, of his sister, his uncle, his English home, when he was startled by finding a grasp of iron suddenly laid upon his arm; and, turning round, he gave a cry of absolute fear, as he beheld a demon's face, with eyes flashing fire, suddenly meeting his gaze. Even his dog, which appeared to have formed the warmest attachment to him, had given no alarm, and indeed, at the moment, seemed to be perfectly indifferent to what was really most perilous. 
               This face was really hideous-ugly even to an extent rarely seen in any form of humanity. The hair long, coarse, and black as night, was twisted in a loop round the head. The eyes were fierce, gleaming, and ferocious; and the immense mouth displayed two rows of sharp, carnivorous-looking teeth. The nose was broad and flat; the forehead low and retreating; the ears like those of the fabled satyr, grew prominently from the head; and the sharp, hag-like chin, had an unnatural protuberance. At the instinct of the moment, Gervase uttered a sharp cry, and, taking a paddle, struck mechanically at the frightful object-which fell back in the water with a splash. The dog barked, or rather made a noise that assimilated to barking; and the Yorkshireman awoke, and grasping his gun, demanded, "What the devil's the matter?" 
               "Look! look!" said Gervase, hastily pointing to the water, and seizing his rifle also: "we are surrounded by the natives!" and sure enough the boat was encircled by a crowd of dim and dusky forms, and ghastly heads floating around; when they saw they were discovered, they set up such a yell as curdled the very blood, and at once began to narrow the space between them. 
               "Be cool," said Gervase, as a flight of spears from the shore whistled around them, one grazing the young man on the cheek. "When you fire, aim well!" and, as he spoke, he lifted up his rifle, and fired above the heads of the savages. The effect was instantaneous. All disappeared as if by magic, and another shower of spears came quiveringly; the Yorkshireman pointed his weapon to a group on the shore, and fired with ready aim. That it was fatal to one or more they knew, by the lugubrious and horrible wail instantly set up. Wattles then taking the paddles, while Gervase, rifle in hand, prepared for a fresh attack; the boat shot away from the ill-omened spot like an arrow, and just as those who had dived in began to show their heads again. The dog, who had instinctively recognized his old friends the natives, had, as a matter of course, displayed no alarm, and this accounted for the sudden surprise. A minute more and it would have been fatal to both the men. 
               The forests increased densely, darkly, solemnly, on both sides. Vast gum-trees mingled with the plain, the mahogany-tree, the auracanian pine, and others of an unknown nature, but of primeval bulk, cast a shadow on the plain broad expanse on which floated. Some had vast hearse-like plumes-mighty weeping willows they seemed-that waved silently, sombrely alone, like the funereal feathers. The silence, the stillness, grew unnatural, and the impressive awe deepened upon them as a change of marvellous kind gradually took place. Translucent as the waters of the Torrens Lake under the granite boundary were the silent waters on which they were now borne along. In fact, they did not appear to them to possess any consistency; and while they seemed to float upon air, beneath them appeared a canoe reversed, with its two passengers-the spectres of themselves and their boat-which seemed to be engaged in a mysterious race. More rugged, vast, high, and abrupt grew the shore and forest, till at the end of a vista they beheld a comparatively small opening, into which, at last, it seemed necessary for them to enter. 
               The waters here flowed through a vast natural tunnel cut in the very face of the living rock, whose height they could not even guess at. The stupendous vastness, as well as the ponderous silence of the whole, were unspeakably impressive. Granite, mingled with dazzling blocks of quartz, appeared to be the substance of which it was composed; but on its surface were inscribed characters and fantastic forms familiar only in the Hindoo mythology, that seemed to have been graved and painted by the hands of mightier than men. It was a history in living adamant, of a people that must have dated back for ages upon ages ago. Barely had they time to behold this, ere they were drawn in, absorbed, forced breathlessly, into this awful void, and a darkness like that of an extinguished world surrounded them. 
               Advancing helplessly, with panting hearts and with senses that the very horror of the night surrounding them intensified, they began to hear the thunderous sound of rolling, raging waters. They might be in a cavern large enough to hold a smaller satellite in its hollow womb. They might be in the midst of sublimities too great for the eye to gaze upon. They knew not what was neighbor to them, and the awful intonations still increased. On, on, for how long they knew not, they went with a soft, gentle motion, and then light again began to gleam upon them-but what a light! Were the boundless walls of this cavern formed of crystal-stalactites of rubies or of diamonds? and was the shallow floor over which the waters broadly floated, of gold or golden sands? They knew not, but soon disembogued into a mighty sea, calm as the sleep of a child; while, far away to the west, they saw with amazement the oceanic cataract which had startled Rufels and his companions. Around, but at great distances, as well as near at hand, rose up cloud-capped mountains. They had then arrived at the object of their journey; and on the shore there lay, in broken masses, gold and gems as pure and undefiled as though one had been tried in the fire, and the other had been selected by the most fastidious judges. 
               Scarcely recovered yet from the shock of their passage through the heart of the mountain, the cry of human voices from the shore startled them even more; but to their joy and satisfaction these proceeded from Rufels and his companions, and in a few moments they were all seated together around the fire which had been kindled in the mouth of the huge cavern from which they had emerged, and to which Gervase caressingly brought his canine friend. 
               "Now," said Rufels, with a kindling eye pointing to the glittering gold and blending mass of spar that lay on the edge of the waters, "was I wrong? the gold of Ophir is not more pure, nor so plenteous; and the diamonds of Golconda will become valueless in comparison with what we can pick up without labor. Once more, then, success to the tontine!" 
               "And gold-seeking!" said Smith. 
               "And diamond-hunting!" added Plaistow. 
               "Success to the tontine!" cried Roger Wattles. "Dash me! that's the thing." 
               "Which only ONE can win," added Gervase in his grave, cold voice, looking pale and worn; but his paleness was nought to the deadly shade that crossed the German's features, as his averted glance fell on the dog with a kind of shudder. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               MARIA RUFELS AND THE DEPUTY-SUPER-CARGO.-THE MYSTERIOUS CITY. 
               WE must now return to Melbourne, in order to see what in the meantime was passing there. The reader must imagine that here, as in the action of a drama, a considerable interval of time elapsed during which the adventurers were absent. 
               In the course of three weeks or a month, The Lively Sally had been emptied of her cargo, and then Captain Leechline found to his surprise that he had nothing to employ him. The fact is, that he had declined a freight offered to him almost immediately on arrival, and he had trusted so implicitly to receive instructions regarding the more valuable freight he hoped for from Rufels, who had mentioned to him the Gulf of Carpentara as the place it would be shipped at, when in fact the German had departed, and left no hint, and the honest captain, with an oath declared that he was "all abroad, like a nigger ger at sea, lashed to a coop, and didn't know on what tack to steer." 
               Like most of his kind, straightforward and unimaginative, old Leechline, under instructions, could fulfil them to the very letter; but this being done, he was fidgety, anxious, fretful, and utterly helpless. In this respect Bob Jackson was little better; and as for the first mate, Roundabout, that worthy had taken up his abode at a free-and-easy boarding-house, where he lived in a high state of enjoyment, repudiating every attempt to give advice in such an emergency, and giving all to understand, "that when the Lively Sally cleared for sea, there he would be at his post-till then he would not heave anchor for all in Bristol;" and Captain Leechline, refusing the proffered bowl of punch the jovial sailor had just ordered in, went forth in no very comfortable plight, inwardly execrating his mate for his obstinacy, and principally for calling for punch at so early an hour in the day, which the worthy captain's dignity would not permit him to join in, and so growling went his way. 
               Arrived after this rebuff on board, he learnt from Bob, to his infinite satisfaction, that a second freight was offered him, not to go to England, but to the Gulf of Carpentara and back again, the consignees of the Bristol bark herself being the principals. As this jumped exactly with his own wishes, he accepted it at once, and the Lively Sally that day began to load, notice being also sent to Roundabout, then as independent as a port-admiral, and oblivious as a somnambulist, that four days hence he was expected to be on board. 
               In the meantime, from the supplementary instructions which Gervase had given to his friend Bob Jackson, the latter kept a pretty sharp look out after the seaman, "Savage Jack," who did not by any means seem to relish this care and tenderness. Bob, however, had a divided duty to perform, the latter half of which was self-imposed; and it was a little to his trepidation that he found himself about to ask the favor of a tete-a-tete with Maria Rufels on the afternoon in question, the captain himself being on board, as in duty bound; and we may add, that when Captain Leechline was not, Bob was, so that there was no fear of the merchantman "tumbling overboard," at least without one or the other being present. 
               As Maria still lodged at the hotel spoken of, instead of joining at the public table with other females staying at the place, according to custom, having a couple of small rooms to herself, access was not so difficult, and the privacy of the interview not likely, therefore, to be interrupted. On finding from the waiter that she was within, but engaged with some one, for a short time, perhaps, Bob at once went up the public stair-case, with the intention of waiting in one of the broad circumambulating verandahs, till her visitor was departed. 
               Passing her door, however, he was suddenly arrested by hearing the sound of a voice he knew, or thought he knew. It was rough, vulgar, and even violent in its tone, and to his astonishment he recognized it for that of "Savage Jack's," whom he fancied he had left on board the ship. 
               This man he knew bore a bad character. By his messmates he was rather shunned than courted; but none could, or at least had brought any accusation against him. By his officers he was looked upon with suspicion, for there was that about him which impressed them with the idea that he had been engaged in a course of life which would not bear looking into very strictly, but, thought the fair-dealing Bob, "Whose would?" The young seaman, too, thought of the old proverb, which "gives a dog a bad name, and then hangs him," and he acknowledged that the worst hitherto against this man was suspicion only; and for this no one had a right to persecute another, since Jack, despite his surliness, (no uncommon feature among men,) did his duty, and hesitated at no danger. Now, however, he might know a little more of him, but it was with some delicacy and hesitation that he stood at the door and listened. 
               "Now," the man was continuing, "you knows me, and you knows what I want. I've waited long enough, and as them fellows have bilked you, I ain't going to let you bilk me into the bargain. They've put the tin away, too-stowed it all safe-twelve hundred pound, and I was a consuming fool to let you gammon me into waitin,' and I've waited till it's almost too late. You must hand over, or else I'll make the house too hot for you." 
               "What can I do? how can you expect impossibilities?" demanded Maria, in a low tremulous voice. 
               "I don't know nothing about that," he replied. "I only know as the old tub is ordered for sea, and so I have no more time to lose in shindying. Devil a copper I've left, and as I want some, it's only right old chums should share." 
               Bob could hear her murmur out, "Heaven help me!" 
               "Oh, as for that, it's all very well," growled Jack; "but you hear me: we're for sea, I tell you, and in three days--" 
               "God be praised for that," again murmured Maria. 
               "Maybe," commented the seaman, grimly; "but if you think I'm going to sail in the barky, and miss the chance of a prize, 'sides giving you the weather-gage entirely, you're mistaken." 
                
               
                   
                     RUFELS GAZING AT THE RUINS OF AN ANCIENT CITY. 
                  
                
                
                
               "What do you mean?" demanded Maria in terror. 
               "I means to run, my pretty one-I means to cut it and turn gentleman, and take up lodgings in this here nice hotel with you my pretty one, and we'll be as happy as the day. Come, if you're a woman of sense-Halloa! what the fiend do you mean by this?" 
               "I mean that I will kill you," and her voice was hoarse and her teeth set. "Come nearer me than you are, and this-this goes to your heart." There was a pause. 
               "I thinks you'd better put that bodkin away," said Jack at length. "You'll do a mischief with it. Isn't killing one enough for you?" 
               "The only friend that could save me is gone-is absent"-she moaned out as she shrank staggering back from the weight of an implication that made poor Bob shiver. 
               "And well for him, too," muttered the other; "for," and he uttered a tremendous oath that made her flesh creep, "if ever he and I meet again, I'll be cursed if I don't walk my knife into him. If he thinks that I forget the lick on the head he gave me, he'll find himself mistaken, that's all. Now," and evidently he had flung himself into a chair, "let's come to terms and talk more to our ease." 
               "What is it you want?" and the woman's voice was fierce. 
               "You," was the curt reply; "and if you don't like that, some money, some gilt, and quick as the peep of day." 
               "I have no money," said Maria, quickly. 
               "You lies," returned the ruffian abruptly. "You has." 
               "I have no money to spare. I am almost penniless until they return," continued the irritated woman. 
               "Until last Christmas comes back," said the fellow ironically. "My eyes! that'll be next week, won't it? Still--" 
               "They may be back next week," said Maria, catching at a hope. 
               "And they mayn't," added Savage Jack with infinite emphasis. "And suppose they is-what then?" 
               "I will then give you some money," she replied. 
               "And where are you a-going to get it from, arter all, my beauty?" asked Jack, gravely, "From your-'usband, eh?" 
               "I-I have a friend who will-who will help me," she gasped out. 
               "You've been casting your sheep's-eyes at that young feller, Murray, have you? Well, I shall see him, and tell him a bit of a secret first,-'cause why, if he be a soft un, it'll hit him all the harder; and if that don't do, I'll give him another twist." 
               "For the love of God, be silent!" cried Maria, passionately. "Kill me, but mention nothing of my-my past or my present to him--" 
               "I spects as he was smit-for you are a creature, too," continued the man very philosophically, disregarding her emotions and entreaties;-"but that's neither here nor there; if he comes, well and good-he'd better make haste: if not--" 
               "What do you mean?" and her tone evidently betrayed fresh alarm. 
               "Why, now, as I'm ashore, and doesn't mean to go aboard, let's have some wittles and drink, and I'll make myself scarce for a day or two; only don't you bolt mind; for if I haves to find you-my eyes and limbs-nothing 'll stop my tongue then. Come, put out the grub; a little wine or mild spirits, and you shall wait upon me; so." 
               Meantime, Bob, with a praise-worthy desire to keep the crew of the Lively Sally intact and entire, had taken the initiative the moment he heard the seaman express an intention to make for the bush, and listening no further, (indeed he already knew more than he well knew what to make of,) he quitted his post by the door, leaving both undisturbed. 
               Bob, however, was not so sharp as the sailor himself. By chance happening to cross the floor to the window, Jack saw his officer hurrying across the street to a store, where several of his messmates were holding a revel. As the man knew by a sort of instinct, that there was danger in the wind, he concluded to act at once; though with a vindictive ferocity which proved the vileness of his nature, with a volley of oaths he swore to Maria, that the moment the Lively Sally had sailed he would be with her again, and that meanwhile he would make for the bush; and once more bidding her, remember! he, to her ineffable relief, quitted the room; and presently, by another mode of exit, the hotel. 
               Bob had given his instructions, and set some of his handiest fellows on a hopeless watch for the appearance of the contemplated runaway, and was returning to the hotel very much satisfied with himself, but as respected Maria Rufels, with sentiments of a most conflicting and confounding kind; for Bob, being little of a logician, and not very apt at unraveling mysteries, was generally apt to multiply the doubt by his own want of comprehension; so that what was vague at first, then became so utterly confounding, that the young sailor looked upon it as one would look on the glamourie of witchcraft. In fact, if he had not really something of a business nature to discuss with Maria, it was possible he might not now have sought her. Her smile and warm welcome, however, as he entered her room, re-assured him. 
                
               "Oh, I am glad you have come," she said. "I have heard-some one said-one of your men-in fact, the vessel is going to sail in a day or two, is it not?" This she spoke hesitatingly. 
               "Yes; but to return again, provided that at Carpentara we do not hear anything of your friends," replied Bob. 
               "My friends!" repeated Maria so quietly, that Bob started; "are they not rather yours than mine?" 
               "No," said Bob stoutly, at last. "I know but one of them; the others are only passengers, and if you don't know anything of them, I don't." 
               "Spoken bluntly and like a sailor," she said, with a brilliant laugh. "But what is to be done?" 
               "About what?" demanded Bob abruptly. 
               "About your friend and mine," said Maria. "If they return in your absence, what am I to say to them? You know their intentions, do you not? I am wretchedly nervous, and-and uneasy;" and so he gallantly handed her a chair, and with some feeling said: 
               "Pray, sit down; you are not well, I fear." 
               "I do not think I am," was her answer. "The fact is, the absence of Mr. Rufels, its uncertainty, and so on, leaves me in much doubt what course to pursue; for I apprehend they intended to return to Melbourne, instead of proceeding across the country to the gulf." 
               "A pretty considerably queer yarn that about her husband to whom she is not married," said Bob to himself. "Split me if I can make it out. Why, you see, ma'am," he continued aloud, "there was a talk about going to Carpentara on the business your,-your husband had spoken to the Captain about." Bob thought by emphasizing here the word "husband" in his own way, it would be productive of an immense sensation; but the astute young mariner's cleverness was thrown away. Maria took it in quite an easy manner. 
               "Indeed!" she said. "Then, perhaps, you mean to go and return in the interim, so that by your return you may meet them here, if indeed they be not already waiting for you?" 
               "Exactly," replied Bob; "that's it; and if they should be so good as to deliver this letter to my friend, Gervase Murray--" 
               "Do you know him long?" asked Maria, abruptly. 
               "Long! Lord bless you! We have been playfellows, schoolfellows, and companions from the cradle. He's the super---Zounds!" muttered Bob to himself, turning abruptly away, "I have done it now, if there was any mischief in telling. How these women do wheedle a man, to be sure. Beg pardon," he added, turning to her, "but the letter. (He handed her one.) If he comes before we return, he's sure to call here first as a matter of course, and so--" 
               "And so--" said Maria standing, as he rose from his chair. 
               "Why, what I was going to say, is, that is there any thing I can do for you, any service I can render. If it be money--" 
               "No, thank you very cordially I am in no want of money at present. It is nothing. (Here she drew a shivering breath.) There is a seaman on board the Lively Sally," she said with an effort, "whose impertinence has caused me much annoyance and alarm. If I were freed from him--" 
               "Ah, you mean Savage Jack--" began Bob. 
               "How did you know it was he?" she demanded, with a startled air. "But no matter; you might have met him. You saw Mr. Murray on one occasion check his insolence, most unaccountably exercised towards me." 
               "Yes, yes, that's it," said Bob in reply, adding apart, "and a pretty return Master Gervase is likely to receive for it. I should like to know what caused the rascal's insolence. However---" 
               "And therefore it is, that I am nervous,-dispirited," continued Maria. 
               "Don't you fear for him, ma'am," added Bob confidently. "I'll have the rascal laid by the heels, and so,-so good bye, ma'am;" and Bob somewhat wistfully held out his hand. 
               "Good bye, and a good fortune and safety to you, Mr. Jackson. Pray, take my compliments to your captain, and say I once more thank him for his many kindnesses," said Maria, quite at ease. "Say also, I shall be happy to see him, as also yourself, on your return, when by that time our enterprising friends will have returned;" and she gave him her hand. 
               Bob's heart was made of very penetrable stuff, and his bosom was by no means as hard as his horny hands. As he looked into that splendid face, with its pale lofty brow, brilliant eyes, mouth of an exquisite form, the dewy lips between which the pearly teeth flashed, and the whole relieved by a profusion of hair such as Bob had rarely or ever seen before, he thought he had never beheld so perfect a vision of stateliness and beauty. And the hand, too; the soft, taper, pliant fingers; they sent a thrill that pervaded his whole being, and perjury was at the moment on Bob's lips. Gervase's sister, "Fanny," the pretty pastry-cook, all were forgotten. Bob would have proved the easiest conquest in the world, had Maria been disposed to lead him captive. Apparently, however, she thought of no such thing. 
                
               "Ah!" said Bob, with a sigh of delight, "how lovely you are!" 
               "Are you, too, a flatterer?" she asked with an intoxicating smile. 
               A hard, abrupt, imperious knock came to the door, and Bob would have liked it better had it been a pistol-shot. 
               "Come in," said Maria, unruffled. 
               "Come in," Bob added, "and be-hanged to you!" 
               A seaman at that same moment entered. "Please, Mr. Jackson," said he, touching his forelock, "the captain says as how you are to bear a hand, as Savage Jack has cut and run, and we've to put to sea to-night." 
               "I'm coming, I'm coming;" and finding nothing more to do than shaking hands with Maria-when he found she had grown suddenly white as death. 
               "Good God!" he exclaimed, "what's the matter?" 
               "That man, that seaman, "she gasped out; "is it true--" 
               "No no," replied Bob, really moved. "I have had him watched, and be assured that he will be safe enough on board before evening; this sailing so soon is unexpected, but we must obey orders. Now then, you lubber, what are you staring your eyes out for? Clear out, and make for the quay. I'll be with you in a moment;" and so once more with a tender pressure, and a good bye, Bob tore himself away, and hurried on board the barque, whose unexpected departure put a sudden period to Roundabout's jovial revel. Suffice it to say, that the Lively Sally departed that night, and Maria Rufels began to breathe more freely than she had done since she had landed, or met the ill-omened visage that had so haunted her, and which she most devoutly trusted she would never more meet; since, for the present at least, he was safely on board the Lively Sally (or else Bob deceived her), and whose white sails from the lofty heights of the hotel verandahs, she saw lessening on the distant horizon, far beyond the rough and ragged barrier which separated the bay from the ocean. 
               Weeks had grown into months, since the gold-seekers and the members of the tontine had departed on their wild errand, and in a privacy that was almost monastical, the strange woman continued to live. To a nature active, energetic, and impulsive as was hers, this dull, monotonous life must assuredly be profoundly wearying, and why she remained so, none could tell; since we know that she had nothing to hope or gain by the success of the German, and the apocryphal claim she was supposed to have upon him, had already been snapped by herself. Why then did she continue to live thus solitary, alone, and helpless? her very blood stagnated, as it were, for the want of some exercise, mental or bodily. 
               That she had been struck by Gervase Murray, as his character had revealed itself to her daily more and more, during the latter portion of the voyage, there was no question, and she did not hesitate to confess to herself that the awkward, shy-looking, silent, and ingenuous lad, was in fact a man with a cultured intelligence, a superior mentalism, and a physical organization, when called forth, that left him without a rival. Skilled as she had been in reading men, here was one that had baffled her, and like a precious gem, hidden in its duller bed for a moment, she had almost passed him over. Cool, calm, brave, with a sang froid that even rivalled that of the immitigable German himself, with whose unbending nature she was acquainted, to the astuteness of a man of the world, he united all the freshness of youth; enthusiastic in a storm, and calm when nature was most lovely; gambolling like a water-dog about the rigging when the winds blew and the ocean was wakened from sleep; skilled and collected when grave perils came, here was one of whom she could make an ideal, and dwell upon alone. That superb woman, whose life had been a blight, who lived in the terrible solitude that she and circumstances in combination had created; that woman, so brave, so defiant, and so attacked-that woman, so accomplished, and possessed of gifts that she seemed rather passively to despise than to enjoy-that feminine mystery, who wore around her as a garment, a mingled atmosphere of crime and innocence, of purity and sin, of fear and defiance-she had begun to love, and in the dark sky of her stormy life, lo! a star was beginning to shine and twinkle. 
               But on first knowing her feelings towards the absent Gervase, why did she shudder, and weep, and cry, "No! no! I must tear his image from my heart, for my clasp on him will be like the clasp of the fabled vampire, which embraces but to destroy!" Why did she act thus, speak thus? 
               For in fact, she should here have found solace, comfort, hope. Tossed about in the tempestuous sea of life, it is in love that man or woman find a haven and shelter. Here stands the watch-tower where the welcome lights are burning, which points to danger on one hand and to safety on the other. There was that which darkened her whole life and gave to it a shadowy hue which blurred the sunshine, so that at the very moment her heart was ready to smile in its enjoyment, came the throb of remorse and fear, and deeper grew the darkness around her than before. 
               And so she was isolated from all things-living in the barren splendor of her beauty, which neither gladdened herself nor any other; and when the image of love and Gervase came together, it was the signal for the grim spectre to step between, and with a stern hand forbid her to love or be beloved. Her path must therefore be lone and drear, and like an exile walking by the shore of a "many-sounding sea," gazing upon the waves and the wrecks, she must neither hope for mitigation for herself, nor render help or hope to others. Such in effect was the condition of her existence. 
               Let us return to the adventurers. 
               Let us add, too, that their wildest hopes were accomplished; that with little of labor there were gold and gems for the mere gathering, so that the tools they had brought with them for digging and for delving, were even not necessary. They worked on in perfect security, and their awe lessened before the presence of that mighty scenery, and before that measureless cataract whose distant thunder filled the air with its din. 
               It was necessary to think of their return, and this return must be made, as all agreed, by the way in which Gervase and his companions had emerged upon the sea from the mysterious river, through its path of darkness, and it was time to look to other means than the frail boat which had so faithfully served them; and as there was no want of timber, they determined to construct a raft, buoyant, strong, and secure, which they could row up to the source of the river if needed, and thence transport their wealth over-land, if no better means offered. 
               One day Rufels, taking his rifle, and supplying himself with ammunition, taking provisions also, and the native dog, which despite the warm attachment the faithful creature had formed for Gervase, hesitated not to accompany either of the men, and intending to examine the country northward to see what means of egress there might lie that way, while the rest amused themselves as they best liked-he started forth in the canoe. By an instinct of his own, as he saw that there was an eddy in the stream, opening from the majestic cavernous mouth, he paddled it back into the darkness, until he found it was borne along with a gentle speed, so that though it was with some misgiving he surrendered himself to the direction he took from the description Gervase had given, he knew that he had diverged from the original track-in fact it was a stream, his compass told him, flowing northward; and finally emerging into the light, he found that he was on a broad and ample river, which he doubted not wound its way through the country into the sea, though where its debouchement was he could not conjecture. 
               Once more the same strange feature which had struck them on the northern boundary of the Torrens Lake, and Gervase in his way down the river, when entering the passages through the mountain, to wit, a perpendicular wall of rock, high, and stretching away up and down beyond the range of vision, met Rufels after some time. Under the shadow of a towering mountain wall, he glided slowly for some hours, until a narrow opening, which presented a singularly wild and novel view, tempted him to paddle to the shore. Finding that he could land there, and clamber up without much difficulty, he fastened his boat securely, and calling to the dog, he seized his gun, sprang ashore, and was soon engaged in climbing up the sinuous but otherwise not very difficult pathway. 
               Ascending higher and higher, tortuously, and paying more attention to his path than to what was to the right or left of him, with a sense of design and regularity, suggested the necessity of pausing, and, by a glance at the scenery spread far below, judge of the whole perspective imagination, was suggesting to him with the wild thought that at the moment flashed across him. 
               He was near the top of the frowning battlements under which his frail boat was rocking; and, glancing downward, he saw that a broad, well-defined, ziz-zag path was cut out from the very lowest depth up to where he stood. He uttered a cry of surprise as his glance now wandered horizontally across the broadening space toward the central sea, nothing of which was visible, however, but the green and silver water of the flashing cataract, that, over the mountain ledges, he still beheld rolling like Time into Eternity. 
               Before him, on a scale of Titanic vastness, such as travellers describe old Thebes, the buried cities of ancient India, or the pyramidal monuments of Central America-before him lay in grand, stately, and imposing proportions, the enormous remains of a mighty city, that with temples, palaces, pyramids, and kingly edifices, must have been hewn out of the living mountains; there in a silence which must have been heightened by the lapse of centuries, lay the remains of an extinguished civilization that may have been coeval with that of the Pharaohs, or of early India, and whose colossal proportions, elephantine, ponderous, were impressed with all the outward marks of a domination. This character marks the ruins of Egypt, of India, of aboriginal America, and of almost all antique remains that have met the eyes of travellers. 
               And yet they were not, properly speaking, ruins. Broad streets of houses, shops, and palaces, led into great central squares, where stood columned temples, imposing pyramids or huge granite monuments, where the incarnations of the Hindoo Mythology were distinctly sculptured, and the emblems of serpent worship met the eye with evidences that were almost terrific, from the vigor which was impressed upon the fabulous python thon, cut out of massive stone, while rearing his head upwards to the skies. 
               Terraces above terraces, supported by broad-based columns, whose size indicated strength as a characteristic of the architecture, led beside huge lakes artificially constructed, and evidently supplied by the waters of the central sea itself. On these, at considerable distances from the water's edge, and so as to allow an easy and free passage for any kind or number of vehicles or people, there stood stately dwellings, whose doors and windows, balconies and broad parapets, and even garden-courts, were to be seen. All was perfect, imposing, and full of a solemn splendor infinitely grand and mournful; for the silence of death reigned there, and the mysterious winds alone babbled in those streets where human beings had thronged-who knows how many centuries ago? Who can tell, in fact, when civilization rose to its height, and again became utterly extinguished in India?-the India of Porus, that fought with Alexander-that India which no foot penetrated, and whose ruins are now the gigantic fragments of arts that men like unto gods must have cultured and made perfect. 
               Here then the magician, the fire-worshiper, the serpent-adorer, the subtle heathen of exploded creeds, must have dwelt. And where was the marvel? "That river," thought Rufels, "pours itself into one of the gulfs at the north of this continent. That there was a communication between this and the islands-between the islands and the Malay peninsula-familiar, well known, and often used, is a supposition that a thousand corroborative proofs convert into undoubted facts. But whence have the inhabitants of this wondrous place gone to? By what means did they become exterminated? and how is it that none-apparently none-dwell in it now?" These were speculations he could not answer. 
               But in the brain of this man, where mingled so much that was lofty and intellectual, there also came to vulgarize and depreciate his undoubted capacities, the lower passion of gain. This was the absorbing topic to which every finer element of his nature was rendered subject. Capable as he was of speculating on the destiny of man-of the abstruse mysteries of the soul, and the sublimities of nature-the leaven of an unholy passion contaminated all; and there were times when even in such awful presences of the revolution of Time-when buried dynasties seemed to rise from their tombs and gaze upon this frail but daring mortal, with their august and solemn eyes, the living spectre of crime stood in his path, and, if it did not oppose him, walked in amity side by side with him. In the very depths of his heart lay designs he had never yet spoken of; but they had germinated, taken form, and would come to fruition some day. Gervase alone did he doubt-if not fear; and the rest he treated with a sardonic smile. Even now, temple and tower, palace and royal residence-mysterious-silent and dead; even now, all this impressive scene only resolved itself into a question of hidden gems, buried treasures, wealth exhaustless-wealth like that which Timon found; and it was on this theme alone he brooded, as, retracing his steps, he returned with his companion to the boat, and with some difficulty made his labyrinthine way back to his friends. Of what he had seen, he spoke no word. All remarked he was unusually taciturn, but forbore to question him. The next day the proposed raft (constructed on principles suggested to him by the nature of the river,) was begun, and the work was carried on with unfailing vigor for several days. That he had discovered a stream that would lead them to the sea-coast, he declared-nothing more. They were all too glad to hear this, for the difficulty which threatened to be an impossibility of carrying their treasures across the boundless plains, was now vanished; and all labored with an active cheerfulness that speedily completed their arrangements. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE WORKING OF THE TONTINE. 
               THE Lively Sally had meanwhile arrived at her destination in the Gulf of Carpentara, and her cargo being discharged, she was taking back to Melbourne such freight as offered itself, in addition to the terms of her temporary charter with the agents at the latter place; while Captain Leechline kept an anxious look-out for an arrival of which he had now begun to entertain hardly a hope. 
               His time had terminated, however, and it was with some disappointment that one morning he gave the order to heave up the anchor and put to sea. The barque then was lying in a fine natural harbor, built at the mouth of a noble river, whose source had as yet had no account given of it; and the farewells being made to the spectators on the quay, and the canvas suspended in folds from the yards, when a sudden hail of "the Lively Sally, ahoy!" startled him. 
               "Halloa!" was answered, almost at random; and, as the skipper turned about to find whence it came, to the surprise of all, a raft, of strange form, but strongly lashed with fibres of trees, twisted grasses, &c., floated alongside; and, amid a heap of securely-fastened bundles, where a rude hut, built of coarse branches towered, there was seen a group of men. These were the gold-seekers, arrived from their long journey in the very nick of time. 
               They were a strange, wild, and even savage-looking group. Unshaven and unkempt, their clothing torn and patched, and replaced by any substitute that came in their way: they were more like a set of Robinson Crusoes than aught else. They were received with cheers by the seamen, and with the most unbounded gladness welcomed by the bluff captain, who had the raft put in instant charge, while the passengers and its contents were being transported on board the familiar old vessel. The satisfaction of the voyagers may be imagined at this welcome termination to their toil; for if the barque had sailed, their courage assuredly would have given way. 
               They had been accompanied by difficulty and danger, while privation and want had added their marked horrors to the spectral appearance of the adventurers. Plaistow, too, was missing, having fallen off the raft, and, despite every effort made, was drowned, so that their number was diminished by one. Singular to say, the speculator Smith was the gayest of the party. His thoughtless, sanguine temperament, had buoyed him up; and, while the others crawled wearily into the cabin, and received food and wine, and took rest, he was on the deck whistling a lively air, and watching the transfer of their valuable spoils into the hold of the barque. Bob Jackson stared upon Gervase as the latter shook hands, as though he were resuscitated from the dead, but few words passed between them. Meantime they were safe and disposed for rest and ease, and their task had been fairly accomplished. Captain Leechline heard of a portion only of their success, and for days after was in abundant good spirits. The Lively Sally once more spread her wings, and after a favorable passage, arrived in Melbourne Bay, with crew and cargo all safe and well; and the disposal of the latter next became a matter of consultation. 
               The return of the adventurers with their then incalculable amount of treasure to Melbourne, by a route so unexpected, by a facility so admirable in its union of accident and coincidence, with so little suffering, save for the loss of Plaistow, was not heralded with that pomp of display and noisiness of announcement now so common among those who have of late met with such signal success, and so much nearer home. They had the tact to keep their secret to themselves, inasmuch as the natural right of discovery, at the risk of life and property, was in a measure secured to them. They had dared the penalty, and had paid it with little sacrifice; and they had seen more to astonish and amaze than to endanger them. The loss of their companion, not to assume for any too much of a virtue neither boasted of, we will reasonably conclude to have been compensated for in the larger share that would accrue to the survivors; only it must not be forgotten, that, according to the terms of their contract, this right was in abeyance-it was of a passive rather than an active character, since all had to trust to those chances of longevity which naturally favored all; and yet, as Gervase pithily remarked, harping on a string that by no means pleased the German, "one only could enjoy." 
               Their meeting with the Lively Sally in the manner they did, obviated the utility of the letter left by Bob Jackson for Gervase; and the arrangement they had made, regarding the old whale-boat and their return by Torrens Lake, was rendered useless to them, save that the plan would very likely be useful to any wanderers who might some time or other happen to follow in their track. 
               They were welcomed by Maria, who was pale and anxious-looking; but neither gave to her, nor to any, very ample account of their success. Its particulars were a matter to be concealed, and none were the wiser. They gave vague descriptions of the regions they had visited, and spoke lightly of the treasures still remaining. As for the German, no words passed his lips relative to the mysterious city he had seen, as related; and the bustle of business, the reality of the every-day world, and the more commonplace matters of gain, and so on, seemed to erase past impressions speedily from their minds-seemed, we say-for, in reality, and when least was said about it, there was a secret instinct telling each that his neighbor meant another visit, and a surreptitious one. Already the thirst for more had relaxed those more amicable bonds that had previously bound them; for, having deposited their treasures in the joint names of the survivors in the bank, the total amount came in round numbers to the stately sum of two millions sterling! 
               When this was told to Captain Leechline, that hard-a-weather old seaman was as much staggered as though he had been overwhelmed by a heavy sea, and had lost breath and power. However, by degrees he too recovered, and it amused Gervase to watch the stately gravity with which the former now conducted himself, and how he came gradually to assume a pomposity of manner, surprising officers and men; while the Lively Sally herself, once the object of his admiration and affection, lost caste, and was evidently little better than an old hulk, little befitting him to retain the command. Gervase was in addition pained at this, as he feared that Leechline might neglect the really important interests of his employers; and it was not until he had more than once shown him how small his claims actually were, and counted the chances against him, that the bluff old seaman relaxed a little in his dignity, and became his frank and genial self again. 
               It was evident to any close observer, however, that a total change had taken place in the relation-all the associates, with the exception of Gervase-had supposed to exist between the German and Maria, as husband and wife, and a kind of fierce coldness had arisen between the two, that might break into flame at a moment. Rufels, possibly seeing that she had decided upon a certain line of conduct, which at the moment baffled him to discover and to contravene, submitted to it with the best grace he could, especially in the presence of Gervase, who continued to meet them at meals, but rarely now to walk and talk with Madame Rufels as before; the others, lodging elsewhere, as their tastes dictated, so that together all met but rarely, and the matter began to assume for him the same singular interests as ever, with the addition that he had not yet had any opportunity of speaking to her respecting her past caution, or her future prospects; or, in fact, of telling her certain emotions that were gathering strength daily around his heart. 
               But since this depended upon himself, he at last decided to do so; and knowing that she loved to walk in the gardens of the hotel-gardens, for size and luxuriant beauty, surpassing all of the kind they had seen in Europe-he, one afternoon towards sunset, bent his steps that way, and found her sitting pensively, gazing down from the glorious height upon the blue bay below, and lost in reverie; for she gave a start at hearing the sound of his voice, and turned upon him a face sadder far than he had ever beheld her wear. Its beauty was even more impressive, because its general cold and haughty air was now subdued. Perhaps it was the calm loveliness of the evening that affected her. 
               "At last," he said, "I meet you alone;" and advanced, and took his place on the rural seat beside her. 
               "Did you wish it?" she quietly rejoined. "I am always alone-here, and at this hour. It makes me think-think, till my brain whirls, of my old home, so many thousand miles away." 
               "It is very beautiful," said Gervase, not at the moment replying to her last remark. "I have been desirous of thanking you for the interest which you took in me-your caution: it was needed--" 
               "It may be," she replied, and was silent. 
               "You interest me greatly," continued Gervase, after a pause. "Pardon me if I am abrupt. It seems that being thrown together so strangely, we may speak without reserve. You are unhappy: can I give you any aid-any friendly, any brotherly help?" 
               "Be a friend-be as a brother to me," she said, almost impetuously; "I cannot hope for more." 
               "I will willingly be that while I remain here," he began. 
               "Remain here!" said Maria, echoing his words. "Are you then going to return on this same desperate business?" 
               "I must return to England first," answered Gervase. "After that, who knows, adventurer as I have become, what I may be tempted to do?" 
               "To England!-true," she added, after a moment's pause: "you have home, friends, happiness, to go to; and I-I shall never, never see it more;" and she dropped her head in hopeless agony upon her bosom. 
               "And wherefore should you not go back to England, which you love so well?" asked Gervase. 
               "England is dead to me-home, parents, friends-or I dead to them-it matter little which," she replied. "Oh, how I loved all once, and can only mourn them now." 
               "Have you, then, no prospect of being happy here?" continued Gervase, who felt keenly for the sorrow she expressed, but expressed in a manner that was destitute of all attempt at parading it, or for seeking for a sympathy she was too proud to beg for. 
               "I-I cannot tell all-I know not even a motive for my existence," she replied. "My being here is one of those anomalous conditions of existence which I cannot account for. I have been going to and fro blindly, and know no more where the future will conduct me to, than I can tell you the causes that originally made me what I am-a wreck upon the sea, drifting I know not where." 
               "But surely," said Gervase, "by looking at the past events--" 
               "My present life," interrupted Maria, "is connected with the past by a tie so terrible, that when I look upon it I shudder. God forbid that I should return, even in thought, to that ground where the spectre stands, and, with a warning wave of the hand, bids me go forth wandering-still wandering on, like him who was accursed of old." 
               "And why-why is it, that you, with so much energy for life, such capacities for its enjoyments, such abilities for ministering to the gladness, which nature, benignantly, in the routine of our daily life, holds out to all-why should you despair, as though an exile, dreading to return?" asked Gervase, still persisting in his attempt to learn her earlier history. 
                
               "I cannot tell you my secret," she replied, with a sad, sickly smile. "I am not all evil, nor all good. I once, in my young life, met with pain and terror, allied with sin and shame, in my path, and the twin shadows will never leave me more; if, indeed, they have done with me, yet I cannot feel even a confidence in those capacities you attribute to me, to help me in the slightest." 
               "Not if I am by your side?" demanded Gervase, in a tone so marked that she could not misunderstand it; and she gazed for a moment, blankly, in the young man's kindling face. "Can I hope to enlist your confidence? can I hope to soothe your sorrow, or to share it? for, if you will believe me. I feel in you an interest far warmer than if you were my sister. If I leave here for Europe, and leave you with the knowledge that life is to you still a dreary and hopeless waste, it will fill my own breast with a pain and anxiety which I can scarcely imagine you to believe." 
               "I do believe you," replied Maria, catching his hand and pressing it; "but believe me, too, it will be better for you never to know me again, nor aught of me, than to let your uncontaminated heart become a sharer of that knowledge which might make you despise and loathe me;" and she let his hand fall from hers, and drew back as if instinctively knowing that she had said enough to sever them effectually, and to destroy at once the latent emotions of his nature, at once firm and affectionate. 
               "I cannot do that," was his reply after a pause. "I cannot forget that something more than interest has arisen in my breast towards you; and though you hint darkly of that which takes the aspect of crime and of shame, this does not prevent me from saying that I-love you!" 
               He paused a moment to observe the effect which this abrupt declaration had upon her. She shrank from him like one struck with a sudden fear. The fair cheeks grew whiter, and the lips were blanched, and suddenly her face was hidden in her hands. 
               "It needed but this to make the cup of my misery brim over," she murmured. "It needed but this to show me what a lost and destitute creature I am become. It was only required to show me what I utterly lose in life-the bliss of home-the happiness in which a woman's heart is altogether wrapped-just placed within sight of me, but between which and myself the impassable gulf yawns: it needed but this to show me the horror of my position more perfect and complete." 
               "Is it not then possible to fill up this gulf?" asked Gervase kindly and winningly. "Can neither I nor you cast over this gulf a bridge, and if it depends only on your will, what is to prevent your attempting it?" 
               On my will? Alas! no, Gervase," and his heart thrilled to hear her deep melodious voice utter his name so familiarly. "It will be yourself that will be the first to say that the chasm is neither to be filled up nor bridged. Be happy in your ignorance of me and forget me." 
               "I cannot do either yet," he returned. "I feel that there is that in you which commands my respect, and--" 
               "You say-you-love me!" and her eyes lighted up with glory as she spoke. 
               "I do," was his calm reply; "and I would make you my wife; but my wife must be honored and respected among men and my family." 
               "And you wish to know whether I can command that honor? I cannot! Plunge into the activities of life-go rather to the source of your found treasures and gather more-mingle in the strife of existence-fill up your time with all that can interest or distract you-seek, if you will, for one fitter to love cherish, and appreciate you-do anything, I implore you, rather than torture me by showing the Eden I cannot step into, and offering me the honest hand I must not even touch. I believe what you say," she continued with the calmness of despair; "you have qualities that have commanded and won my respect. I cannot lead you to the verge of the gulf and then thrust you in." 
               "What is the extent of Rufels' power over you," asked Gervase, with wonderful collectedness, considering the tempest that made his brain throb and his heart beat so fast. 
               "None! I have defied it. It is true he has befriended me, and once, when I knew him least, I trusted in him and he betrayed me; and yet--" and she smiled bitterly, "you see I cling to him." 
               "There is, then, guilt, and with him," continued Gervase slowly, while the sad tone of his voice bespoke something like despair in him. 
               "As Heaven is above us, no!" she energetically answered. "I trusted in him, and he would have betrayed me. I confided in him, and he would have sold me to shame." 
               "Why, then, are you bound to him?-why cling to him?" demanded the young man. 
               "The tie which binds adventurers alone is the tie which binds us together, for aught I know further," answered Maria. "Parentless and friendless, on one occasion, as he had known me for a time previously, and found me with destitution before me, he advised me to turn my talents to account, and he introduced me to the operatic stage. I was successful and became independent. But then-then, after that came the tempest pest that wrecked and whelmed me; and the man I thought to have blessed as my benefactor, was the evil spirit that blighted my life." 
               "Go on," said Gervase, slowly-sternly. "I must, I will know all now; if not from you, from him. Go on!" 
               "I quitted the stage, because the price of my continuance would have been that of my honor"-she spoke with a fierce pride,-"and I found that Rufels laid snares for my feet. I abandoned the profession that was rendering me happy, and placing me above fear and want. Isolated as I was, with the first trust I reposed broken, I knew not where to turn." 
               "Did you love this man?" asked Gervase very quietly. 
               "I esteemed him then. I might have loved him," said Maria. "I left the Continent secretly and alone, and went to the South of England, and resided at a little watering-place, where I thought to be at peace. An ailing invalid who was distantly related to me, as I found by mere accident, met me there; and as he, too, was alone, old and infirm, and seeing that I was unprotected, he offered me the shelter of his roof; I accepted it, and became to him a daughter." 
               "What was his name?" said the young adventurer in an abrupt and hurried manner, as if from the impulse of a remembrance that suddenly struck him for the first time. 
               "Westmore, simply, Mr. Westmore. He had been offended with his relatives, and quitted them in an angry moment. I never knew why." She scarcely, as she replied, observed the sudden start which Gervase gave, nor the pallor which succeeded it, nor that, as he turned his face away for an instant, astonishment mingled with a more indefinable expression was written on his working features. 
               "The fate which persecuted me," continued Maria, "once more brought Rufels there. I know not how he found me out, but he soon became a frequent inmate of the house, and Mr. Westmore, pleased with his manners and conversation, received him with a warmth of friendship which was easily accounted for." 
               "But this man being so dangerous," began Gervase, "did you not hint--" 
               "I had no right to object to this growing intimacy," she replied, "while the great medical skill, in addition to the extensive knowledge which he undoubtedly possessed, prepossessed the old man in his favor." 
               A long, dreary, unbroken pause followed. She had arrived at the limit of her disclosures and could go no farther. 
               "I do not forget that on the occasion of that man's insulting you on board the vessel, something more than fear appeared to have possessed you," said Gervase, at last. "That you might have reasons to dread Rufels, is not improbable; but with those near to defend you, it is strange that so low a ruffian could quell you." 
               "Indeed!" and her limbs became rigid, and a still deadlier pallor overspread her lips and brow. "You think so?" 
               "I cannot but think so," was the answer, "since it appeared--" 
               "Let us-let us not speak of him," said Maria. 
               "If there was nothing to apprehend from him, you had nothing to fear from his having been left behind, when the vessel sailed on her last voyage, and brought us back." 
               "Left behind!" she repeated monotonously; "the man Savage-left behind. It is impossible." 
               "He deserted the ship," said Gervase; "and though all efforts were made to discover him, they were obliged to sail away without him; a proceeding by no means disagreeable to the crew, since he was generally disliked by them, and their opinion of him was decidedly unfavorable." 
               "And he, he has been near me all this time!" she murmured, with a face of ashes; and then attempting to rise on her feet, she tottered and sank back. "My God! if he had shown himself meanwhile, I should have gone mad, or died, I think. Left here! There was a motive in all this." 
               "Yes, he was left behind; I learned from my friend Jackson, that he had deserted," replied Gervase; "and that you had shown considerable agitation, fear-horror even, lest that should have been the case." 
               "Yes, yes," said Maria, in an absent manner, which showed that her thoughts were elsewhere; "yes, it was so." 
               "Well, as you are a woman of more than ordinary courage," said Gervase, "and have no more than others to dread from his ruffian disposition, with the law on your side, and those at hand whom you might have called to protect you,-why this fear, so vague, but also so vast?-why this dread, so unspoken, which affects your whole moral nature?" 
               "The law!" Gervase remarked that she placed a singular emphasis on this word. "The law protect me!" 
               "And why not you as well as any other?" he said. "It is made for the good of all; and only those who fear the law, dare not call upon it to protect them from its annoyances or harm. Why?" 
               "Because, Gervase Murray," she continued, "this is the part of my sad history I cannot tell you of. Because this is the dark secret which places me more under the ban of this creature than I was ever under the potent spell of Rufels. And now you will not dream more of the words just now speken." 
                
               Gervase shrank back this time-he was really shocked; for the very vagueness of his doubts appeared to cast upon her beauty a sort of horror, all the greater that it was so irresistible. The fascination which led him to love her with the whole strength of his nature, had something in it at this moment unutterably fearful; and he felt like one wooed by a terror that would lead him to the very verge of ruin. 
               "I will see this man myself," he said, at length. 
               "Do not!" she exclaimed, with all the energy of terror. "Do not, unless you would look upon me as some most loathed and hateful thing; and if I dare not for a moment dream of your loving me, I would not have your pity or your scorn-and I might win them both. Do not see him,-speak to him,-or seek to learn aught from him; for, though I have suffered, and have endured without any actual guilt, I suffer, too, and share the odium of a crime I know not why; and, rather than you should leave me without promising that you will think of me no more, I will kill myself! Living, I cannot bear your odium; dead, what matters it what my memory suffers? Promise-oh, premise me this!-it is all I ask;" and, almost kneeling at his feet, her eyes suffused with tears, it was a spectacle of moral degradation that was inexpressibly revolting, though Gervase, somehow or other, could only look on her as one more sinned against than sinning. 
               "I promise," said Gervase, coldly; and then, with one look upon her face, so perfect and so sternly beautiful as it was, with the profoundest sorrow in his heart he had ever felt for any human creature; he held her hand an instant, and releasing it, turned away and left her without speaking another word. At the moment, indeed, his heart was too full to say a syllable. 
               Ere he quitted the garden, however, he turned round to take one more glance of her, and saw that she had sunk upon her knees on the ground, and, wringing her hands vehemently, was sobbing like one broken-hearted. In her varied moods, the chief characteristic of which was intensity, he had rarely witnessed it so developed. 
               Something had stilled the tempest of his soul, and the love that had filled it for her, was taking the aspect of pity; but he could not help fancying that her words were true when she said that he might loathe her, from the revulsion growing upon him. 
               But he could not bear to see a woman suffer thus, through him at least. After an instant's hesitation, he turned round again, and admitting to himself at least it was neither competent nor had the right to be her judge, he approached her, and said, "Calm yourself-rise up. Eyes more curious, and thoughts more ungenerous than mine, will be active regarding you. Rise and compose yourself; and since this causes you so much distress, let us speak of it no more. Shall I lead you in?" 
               "No; leave me," she replied. "I am calmer now. You are generous after all, and I thank you. I will remain here a little longer. If I go within, the very weight of my fancies, within four walls, would crush me. Take my thanks and my gratitude, and pray leave me. When next we meet, I shall be calmer." Gervase, with a bow once more, quitted her, and the next moment she was alone in the garden. 
               While days had thus passed, the Lively Sally was making preparations for her departure to England, which evidently aroused the curiosity of Rufels, who had not attempted to further whatever intentions he might at first have entertained with regard to the deposited papers of the young supercargo. Possibly the march of events rendered it now unnecessary. Possibly, also, he had discovered that they were useless to him, since the captain had certain orders to obey which were independent of Gervase. Meanwhile, the cargo for her homeward voyage was rapidly being stowed away in her ample hold; and officers and crew worked together with an unanimous good will, being desirous to behold the white cliffs of Albion once more, and thread the mazes of the picturesque Avon. As for Gervase, he gave himself little apparent trouble about their proceedings. Smith had, in his restlessness, begun to speculate with his surplus capital in a diversity of business matters, and Roger Wattles was already the owner of a small flock of sheep, whose thriving condition he was regarding with a very favorable eye, as they fed on the plains he had taken, some few miles removed from Melbourne. Rufels wandered idly about, having no taste for any of the employments that offered themselves, though doubtless his busy mind revolved over many projects far more extensive. No one, for the present, spoke of a fresh venture to the inland sea. 
               Ever since Bob Jackson's interview with Maria Rufels, what he had then heard had considerably cooled his ardor, by no means excessive at any time, for the young mate was gifted with a considerable amount of English phlegm. He had made little secret to Gervase as to what he knew relative to Maria, wisely cautioning him to be careful what he was about, to which Gervase good-humoredly replied that he would, giving no other token or sign of interest or surprise, so that at last they seemed to omit the mention of her name by common consent, and thus the time went by. Roundabout, holding his revel right royally, and waiting only the word to go on board for sea, to become as active as ever. 
               Gervase, though he met Rufels and Maria as usual at the principal meal of the day-the ordinary-in fact appeared to think no more of the strange interview that had taken place so recently; but he had not the less for that relaxed, in his purpose of finding the man Savage, and of keeping over him a close watch, through which, indirectly, he might arrive at a solution of the mystery he felt unable to explain, and which must be made clear. As yet his attempts had been unsuccessful, and possibly the vicinity of the ship in the harbor, made the man wary, or he might have gone to Sydney, or any other of the numerous localities open for the hardy adventurers of his own class. His disappointment was not the less that it was unexpressed, but accident did that for him which his own attempts had rendered ineffective. 
               Rufels had in the lower part of his hotel a suite of three rooms, which, at one extremity, opened into the thickly-wooded garden, where, attached to tall supporters, grew the magnificent and varied flowers of a tropical climate. One window at the side led into a dense grove of laurels, intersected with several broad and narrow walks; and the second, at the end, opened into a broad balcony, where odorous creepers made a bower or an arched conservatory, laid out in a style of elegance that would have been costly, save that the shrubs, plants, and flowers grew with a luxuriance only known in the tropics. The remaining two rooms, of a larger kind, and furnished in a rich and even expensive manner, led the one into the other to the extreme frontage of the building. 
               Into these walks, after having perambulated the ground for an hour or so, where the shade was most grateful, Gervase emerged, smoking his cigar, and was about (when approaching a window that was partly open, but shaded by curtains,) to turn into another path, when the sound of his own name, spoken by Rufels, and while in colloquy with some other person-Maria Rufels, as the voice of the second speaker told him-attracted his attention, and riveted him to the spot. He was perfectly screened from observation, and instinctively he stopped to listen-the very instinct of danger overcoming his scruples, even had the suddenness of the surprise permitted him to indulge any. 
               In effect, Maria and Rufels were holding a conversation which had been carried on for some time, and of which he only heard a portion; therefore we must, in order to render the nature of the whole of its importance and bearing clear to the reader, commence at its beginning, indicating the particular part when Gervase became a sharer in a conference not intended for him. 
               It was clear enough that the present state of proceedings was not satisfactory to the German. If he intended to use Gervase, the latter was about to escape from him, for a lengthened period at least. If he intended to convert the ship to his own uses, (and doubtless, by having her taken back to the Gulf of Carpentaria, and carrying an armed flotilla to the Central Sea, now the aim of his present hopes, whence they might bring with them incalculable wealth, and actually load her with the precious cargo,) her intended return and her daily loading told him it was a vain hope, and no other seemed so eligible. Therefore, seeking Maria that morning, he began to confide to her, but cautiously, his designs; and though, when on his desire to speak with her, she appeared cold, indifferent, and distant, he entered at once upon his object. 
               "We are arriving at a condition of things," said he, "which are by no means so promising as I had hoped, but which threaten to interfere seriously with the main purport of my coming here." 
               "And what, then, are your hopes or purposes to me?" asked Maria, with a collectedness that somewhat puzzled the German, since on this interview depended much that he hoped to effect by her means. 
               "Softly-let us not forget our compact," he said, in a calm tone. "Be seated, I beseech you, and let us converse at our ease. We shall come to a good understanding, I dare say." 
               "Perhaps yes-perhaps no," observed Maria; "but you mentioned the word compact, I think: it is the first that I have known of one." 
               "If not written, at least understood," returned Rufels, gayly. "In our lifetime we have had one or two-nor the less strong because they were unwritten." 
               "I understand nothing-and if this be all your reason for requesting, or rather commanding, my presence here, I need not remain longer. It is a waste of time." And she arose to go. 
               "Do not be in such a hurry, I beg of you," said Rufels, with a wave of his hand. "Have a little patience; we are quite alone here, and I have taken care that no interruption shall take place; and while the odors of these tropic blooms fill the air, and make it heavy with a sense of dreamy delight, with brains that have no dreams or phantasies, you and I will have our talk out. You are a fine woman, and one of marvellous attractions. That is the reason I am loth to see you escape from me." 
               "Take care," said Maria, menacingly, "I am not quite helpless." 
               "Do you trust, then, to your young friend? Has he, in fact, declared himself your knight?" demanded Rufels, ironically, "so that you hold yourself independent of the link which has hitherto bound us together? I gave you credit for possessing more strength of mind than you are displaying." 
               "I break the link of my own accord, and I trust in heaven. I can trust you no longer, who have so often played me false." 
               "Piously spoken in the first instance," was the German's reply. "Still, it is not an answer to my question. Not one that decides me in relinquishing my hopes." 
               "Let us have no farther mention of his name, sir," said Maria, indignantly. "It will not be worth your while, assure yourself, to force me to extremities, and I begin to weary of this display of insolence you exhibit towards me." 
               "I do not know what these extremities are, and I act upon a certain theory which may be wrong. It is, to be indifferent to every will but my own;" and Rufels, with calmness, began to pick his teeth like one fully assured of obedience. 
               "You cannot compel mine, then," retorted Maria. 
               "I have ruled yours, and may do so yet," returned Rufels, in answer. "Let us come to the point, however-and, in doing so, I must, with your leave, still repeat the name you object to my mentioning, with such a display of energy." 
               "I refuse flatly, and at once, to aid you in any nefarious schemes which you may project, without your disclosing it any farther; and more than this, I do not heed your implied threats." 
               "You have foolish scruples, and you are in my debt," said Rufels, with as much sternness now as indifference before. 
               "In your debt?" exclaimed Maria, rising, with a shiver. "Oh, yes, I had forgotten that! but the circumstances under which I became so, must exonerate me." 
               "The devil! and wherefore so, I pray you, madam?" demanded Rufels. "Do not believe it, however; you have signed a bond or two, which, in a court of law-and the law is here as in England-will prove that my power is absolute, and is no abstraction, and will imply a little more." 
               "Do you dare to remind yourself of that circumstance, sir?" 
               "Certainly," he replied, with admirable sang froid; "for with regard to the foolish circumstance you hint at, if I do not mention it, you had better leave it alone." 
               "I will borrow the money-and at least in that respect, you must acknowledge your power will be shorn." 
               "Of whom, then, will you borrow it? In the first place, the amount is pretty considerable, more than even your friend can conveniently raise. Besides, think of the scandal; for I am not particular, if roused and opposed. Add to this, the chances of refusal, if you request a loan." 
               "I do not dread that, sir," said Maria; "I know I have but to ask." 
               "Have you caught him in the witchery of your glances? Have you limed him with the honey of your tongue? Have you waved your hair, witch-like, around him, and fastened the poisoned tooth in his heart? If I could believe in fables, and in the serpent-women of old, I would believe you an incarnation of the ancient Lami;" and the voice of the speaker grew bitter at each climax of his envenomed words. 
               "Yet I refuse to play the part you wish me, whatever be the risk of exposure or the cost." 
               Rufels turned deadly pale, and bit his lip to the quick; then calmly replied, "I don't know that I am doubtful of your friend's will and of his ability, if put to the test, after all; but this you must not, you shall not do." 
               "And wherefore not, if I choose to exert a will of my own, as you so royally insist upon acting on your own?" she replied, with a firmness that proved the intentions to be no idle threat. 
               "Because it may endanger-his-life-aye, madam-start!-his precious life!" replied Rufels, with his most vindictive scowl. "I have not been scrupulous. I will not be so now; take care, therefore; be mindful how you act." 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE PLOT THICKENS. 
               AT this stage of the conversation, between the German and Maria, which threatened to become critical in its anticipatory results for Gervase, fortune, that delights in thwarting the most admirably drawn plans, seemed determined to step in and transfer the risks from the person of Gervase to that of Rufels himself. 
               The native dog, which had generally made itself acquainted with most parts of the hotel, and had succeeded in establishing a friendly relation with most of its inmates, at this moment entered the pavilion in search, possibly, of his kind master, and not finding him there, he solicited Maria's attention, who returned it by patting it on the head. "Faithful" had as great an appreciation of this as the most favorite and well-bred dog possibly could have, and tossing his rough head away with a low but joyful bark, seemed about to solicit the same attention from Rufels. 
               In order to understand what followed, we would only remind the reader of that wonderful derful and sagacious instinct which dogs are known to possess-how that, like men, they have a comprehension of men's physiognomies, as also of the interior workings of the mind; and, judging from the brooding villainy, or the guileless impulses, have been known to become steady foes, or active friends, on the same precise principle. 
               Now, Rufels had taken a strange dislike to the dog,-so perfectly domesticated with his master,-and, strange to say, the dog reciprocated this feeling, and looked upon the German with an aversion mingled with terror, which, before now, had led the young man to imagine that some injury had been attempted the animal, whom he guarded solicitously, and determined to study the instincts of the tractable brute; so that there existed between them that sense of mutual dependence and protection so characteristic of the English dog and his owner. Strong, large, and courageous, Faithful's native ferocity, tempered by a remarkable docility, made Gervase value him as an agent that, in any future peril, he might be indebted to, perhaps, for his life. But to return. 
               The dog, on recognizing Rufels, shrank back with a growl, and, showing his strong teeth, testified his disapprobation of the other moiety of the company in which he found himself, and the sudden rage of the German was roused to fury. 
               It was hearing the dog give a sudden cry, as though he had been kicked, followed by an angry objurgation from the lips of Rufels, that attracted the attention of Gervase, who, as we have stated, was walking in the garden; and the cry of the poor brute rang in his owner's ears with a reproachful cadence, till it died away in a whine, and entirely ceased. Doubtless he then limped away. 
               Flushed with anger, Gervase was about to enter in by the window, with the intention of very unceremoniously calling the perpetrator of the assault into account; but it was also at this moment that the young man suspended his intention, and plunging into a path where he could hear, yet not be seen, he was aware of what had personally borne reference to himself. 
               "Curse the brute!" the German said, as he gave him a kick, that caused Faithful to make a sudden spring at his legs; but the German seizing a knife, the animal knowing that danger was nigh, which he could not avert, instantly retreated and left the room. 
               "Poor fellow!" said Maria, compassionately, "he would not have hurt you." 
               "Humph! I don't know that," returned the other. "You have strange sympathies, it strikes me, madame." 
               "I do not like to see dumb creatures ill-used," she said, a little sharply. 
               "You like the hideous brute, perhaps?" asked Rufels, with a bitter meaning in his voice. 
               "If I do-what then?" retorted Maria. "Possibly, too, he suggests a comparison. Do you think so?" 
               "I was thinking of an old pithy proverb which runs, 'Love me-love my dog!'" and Rufels smiled; "but your comparison, madame, I really do not see the force of it." 
               "And your deduction from the proverb is-what?" and she looked him steadily in the face-defiantly even. 
               "Is very plain-is it not? Well, you heard what I threatened to do just now-for ceasing to converse of the dog, we will revert to his owner." 
               "To Gervase Murray?" said Maria. "But I thought he was done with." 
               "To this confounded Gervase Murray," replied Rufels, "who is by no means done with yet, I think, madame." 
               "In the event of his refusing to bend to your will, and becoming your bona fide property, as old legends say, when a man sells himself to Satan? Yes, you threatened him with death. I remember that; but remember, too, that threatened men live long," added Maria. 
               "And if you are interested for the dog, you will doubtless be more interested for the safety of his master?" asked the German, in a tone of malicious enjoyment. 
               "Doubtless," she replied, as calmly as ever. 
               "Then, if you see that sad necessity, do what I tell you, and so hold him harmless. I place his safety," continued Rufels, "in your own hands." 
               "You menace him with death," said Maria; "but does it not strike you, that in carrying out such an intention-which I will oppose-that you will cripple yourself, and embarrass your own projects?" 
               "It is possible. Nevertheless, he is doomed," said Rufels; "and your promise of protecting him is laughable. First protect yourself. Listen! I find that he is about to return to England, for the tame-hearted fool is sighing for sight of home again, I suppose--" 
               "Well," exclaimed Maria, impatiently, "are you going to repeat the uninteresting topic over again? What would you have?" 
               "I wish you to prevent it," was the curt reply. 
               "To prevent it!" echoed Maria; "how?" 
               "Not only to prevent his going," continued Rufels, "but to win him over to a project of mine, by means of which this vessel, destined for England, shall not go to England at all--" 
               "And where, then, do you destine her for?" demanded Maria. 
               "To where I shall appoint, and by which he will also benefit. On both of which heads I do not see," continued Rufels, rudely, "that I need enlighten you farther." 
               "Why do you not prevent him yourself?" she asked, with some asperity. "Why trouble me with the matter?" 
               "I have essayed to do so. In a conversation which I held with him last evening, I find, without laying myself open to him, that he has decided upon a course of his own--" 
               "So much the better," said Maria, rising abruptly, and like one that had endured an unmitigated nuisance and would endure it no longer. "I shall follow his example, and decide, too-" 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Rufels, starting up. 
               "To leave him to himself, and to put an end to a scene that has become too wearisome for endurance. I decline," added Maria, "to interfere in any way." 
               "You are decided, are you?" snarled Rufels. 
               "I am decided;" and she left the room without another word. 
               "By the Three Kings of Cologne!" he muttered between his teeth, "it will be the worse both for you and for him; but go your ways-and now, busy brain, help me to that which shall relieve me from this perplexity. Now, fellow! what is it that you want here?" 
               This exclamation was addressed to a man, who was muffled in a weather-stained travelling-cloak, whose features, from the collar of which, together with a broad-leafed felt hat-were difficult of recognition, till flinging that hat off and turning the collar down, the German in a moment knew the man who sought him, but with some surprise, as previous to this he had barely known more of him than his simple existence. 
               It was the sinister face of Savage Jack, which a single glance that Gervase cast in at the window sufficed him to know, and however desirous the latter might be to hear the nature of the business which introduced him somewhat familiarly to Rufels, he was disappointed by the precautions the man himself took; since, the next moment, he very carefully examined and closed the windows, fastening both them and the door; and thus Gervase, brooding on what he had already heard, was obliged to conjecture the rest for himself as best he might. 
               One thing was certain; Rufels was a man whose designs would admit of no hesitation, in adopting the extremest means for their fulfillment. Another was: the man he was desirous of meeting and putting a question to and receiving an answer from, was present. A third was: that the living terror of the unhappy woman herself was almost at her elbow. What was Gervase to do in this extremity? That he felt himself cruelly embarrassed we may easily believe; but it was necessary to act, and quickly, too, if he would avoid both the peril and the doubt. 
               Quitting the place he had occupied, he entered the hotel, and seeking one of the verandahs where he could command a view of the rear of the German's position, from whence it was not unlikely the evil-omened visitor would emerge, he sat down to think as well as to watch; and taking such precautions as prevented him from being seen, he began to arrange his plans. 
               First, they were to watch Rufels unceasingly, and if the latter took no active steps, to leave him just as quietly, and proceed on his voyage without notice or parley. If the German, however, began to show any hostile activity, it was the intention of Gervase to counterplot, out of a knowledge he had obtained of the other's intention and partial plan. Another plan was, to instruct his friend Bob Jackson, that the runaway might be again secured. Once on board, circumstances might tend to give him all the information he coveted. In any case, the persecuted woman would be freed from one terror, and one infliction the less might perhaps be spared her. 
               Patience and time will always serve, in a greater or less degree, to produce for a man the fruit of his labor and his hopes. It was an hour, perhaps, during which that worthy individual, "Savage Jack," had been closeted with the German. At the end of that time, Gervase saw the window cautiously opened, and the German appeared glancing about him to see that no eye was on the watch. Satisfied that such was the case, he re-entered, and once more emerged, followed by the muffled seaman, who, as he had entered with a slouched hat and turned-up collar, darted into the garden walks, and by a slightly circuitous walk was enabled to make his exit through the garden into an unfrequented part of the town which towered above the bay, and darting into a neighboring wood, soon disappeared from view; while Rufels once more shut himself up in the pavilion to concoct those plans, doubtless, which some disclosures on the part of the seaman had suggested; for Gervase did not hesitate for a moment to conclude but that the one had become the confidant of the other, and perhaps intended to act in concert. 
               But Gervase knew his man far too well to believe that he would trust too far in so questionable an ally. Still, in what way was he to get rid of his sinister friend? one plan alone was left him, and that was, to follow the German with the perseverance of a blood-hound; to dive into the very heart of this mystery; to know the whereabouts and condition of the runaway; and, while putting Bob Jackson's myrmidons on his track, to 
                   
                     RUFELS MURDERING SAVAGE JACK. 
                  
                  
                   convert the whole ingenuity of Rufels into the elements of his own confusion and defeat. 
               For the greater part of the day, Gervase divided his time between his room and the verandah. Hour after hour, he knew that Rufels had not quitted his own apartments, though he did not know but that at any moment the latter might call upon him, and insidiously seek to entrap him in the astute purposes Rufels had so intricately formed. But no message came, nor did the principal appear. The afternoon was fast waning, when, as a favorable chance would have it, Gervase beheld the German issue forth from the window of the pavilion, with a quiet, untroubled air, and no apparent preparation for any length of walk. But Gervase felt certain that his associate was about to keep an appointment made with the seaman, either to pursue a new scheme, or to complete revelations already begun. The German left the garden, after closing his window, to give the idea that he was still within. Gervase was ready in an instant, and arming himself with his pistols, and calling his dog with a sign and a word, ordering the latter to keep close to him, he set off in the track of Rufels, but with such precautions as showed that if he was suspected or discovered, it would have the effect of undoing all he had sought to do. 
               On the heights above the river, a thick and sombre wood, in which the frequenters of the hotel sometimes wandered, led for a mile or more to a wilder locality to which it was not always safe to venture. Cliffs and chasms, such as are not met with on precipitous shores, and intermingled with trees and brushwood, rendering the place as dangerous to traverse as they had before now offered shelter to the refugee and the convict prowler. Beyond laid the "bush," and a perfect wilderness of desolation replaced with a half savage grandeur, the cultivated tracks intervening. Into this gloom, where the waning rays of the declining sun fell scantily, Gervase and his dog plunged. 
               For a time, as our hero went cautiously on, he began to fear that he had totally lost the path the German had taken, and in fact, it was as much by chance as by design that he took the rugged and uneven road, such as it was. Observing, however, that the dog followed a scent he became reassured; and though the shadows from hanging woods and beetling cliffs indicated the approach of darkness, there was yet a good half-hour of sunlight, and the moon, when it rose, would give the most brilliant light-a light, however, that was too treacherous to trust to, when the path is as uneven as it is unknown. 
               He had gone on for nearly an hour, when all at once he drew back, and held his dog by the collar, as he caught sight of Rufels through an opening between the trees, seated in a hollow of the heights, sheltered on all sides, and carpeted with a verdure of the softest and sleekest texture. Below, at no very great depth, the irregularities of rock and chasm being hidden by a thick and tangled underwood, raved the river, where, here and there, a coasting craft, or fishing-boat were seen dancing on the gold and azure waves. Opposite to Rufels was seated the seaman on a shelving ledge over the "Yarra yarra." 
               Cautiously, but with some trouble, and more peril perhaps, than he saw at the time, Gervase struck out of the path, in order that, if he could not hear, he at least might see, and so distinctly as to have no room for doubting the evidence of one sense at least. The German was seated a little above Savage, on a block of stone; by his gestures and his tone, which he now and then heard, he appeared to be pressing some argument upon the seaman, which, by his surly stillness, the other did not seem to agree to. 
               He had some difficulty to keep the dog still. The latter, restless and whining, with now and then a low growl uttered between, as if in invective-for doubtless the animal recognized the man that had assaulted him-but a word of warning-a "keep quiet, good dog!" impressively delivered, sufficed, and Gervase bent himself from his ambush to unravel this strange interview, with the most profound attention. 
               The breeze from the bay sounded hoarsely with the waves beating on the shore, or, mounting to the heights, moaned sharply among the trees. There was a wail almost human in its deepening or dying cadence, as it rose and passed by that lonely spot. That the heart of Gervase beat fast, and that something like a vague awe, as if from the sense of an impending catastrophe, in which he was to be witness or actor, filled his breast, may be easily imagined; for there was that in the scene, its persons and accessories, that needed no aid from the imagination to render all most powerful and impressive. 
               Why was all that secrecy needed? and why this lone interview in a lonely spot required as a secrecy to one that had so recently taken place? and why was it that in the first meeting all that was required had not been performed! Here the utility of the German's new ally could be of little use, and Gervase could only fall back upon his old ground of suspicion-though he had in reality no ground for it-nothing that he could openly urge, but what would have been denied by the one and discredited by the other. 
               Rufels' back was partially turned to Gervase, but as after a time the latter beheld the German put that into the seaman's hand which he conjectured to be money, they both rose, and the face of the former was now fully seen. Gervase shuddered to behold its ghastly whiteness. His blood was congealed for a moment, by the diabolical intent that the firm jaw, the compressed lips, and the gleaming eyes denoted. At the moment, he would have cried out a word of warning, but the word died on his lips. The two had bade each other good evening, and the back of the seaman was now turned to Rufels, as he was going to descend in the opposite direction to his lair or hiding-place. Once more those gleaming eyes glanced round; the next moment, quick as light, the German's broad-bladed knife flashed across the air,-it fell between the victim's shoulders with a force that lost nothing, apparently, by calculation. 
               "Die, then!" Gervase heard him say; "die, fool! who have sold me a secret worth any purchase;-die, ruffian! who would menace me, and hold me in your power, and threaten me with what the fiend alone could have prompted you to know!" 
               A cry and a curse had mingled in the air! This was succeeded by a sound of a body falling among the branches, and the next instant Rufels stood on the ledge alone, peering below, in order to see whether indeed the burial and the consequent secrecy had succeeded the assassination. Neither voice, nor cry, nor groan, came from the depth, and the hardy man hugged himself with the same dreary consolation that Lady Macbeth used to soothe her conscience. 
               "He is gone, and will tell no tales!" murmured Rufels. "If my blow has failed, I am the greatest bungler that ever placed life in jeopardy for a prize such as emperors have deluged the earth to attain. No: it was too certain; and all is still as death! save that the hideous wailing of these trees, and the moaning of the wind, to other ears, perhaps, might suggest a protest from nature herself. But, bah! What is that to me?" and he was evidently on the point of quitting the place, when another thought seemed to strike him. 
               "Suppose, the fellow had any papers-suppose--but, no matter: to-morrow, if nothing prevents me, I will return and seek the thicket beneath. I can then make sure. Men of his class, after all, are no great penmen, and his cunning was but a coarse craftiness. He'll sleep quieter, I expect, than he has done lately; and, now," he exclaimed, in a louder voice, which Gervase more distinctly heard, "and, now, Maria Westmore, I have you fast in such toils as you will never break from. Aha! madam, will you defy me now?" Speaking thus, he retraced his steps and re-trod the path by which he had reached that strikingly beautiful and romantic spot which he had defiled by crime, and polluted by human blood murderously shed, and now hastened homeward without one compunctious thought of the stark and bleeding form to trouble a heart case-hardened in an impervious apathy, and with no fear for the future, save of discovery for the present. 
               Gervase, paralyzed with horror, and stupefied by the tragic hurry which had left him a witness of a crime, felt only that strange thrill of fear natural to his position; while the echo of the name Rufels had last spoken, struck with an unaccountable effect upon his mind, and also upon his memory. 
               Maria Westmore-not Rufels, such apparently was the name of the woman who had become so identified with the whole future bent and purpose of his life, and such also was the name of the old man in her fragmentary story, as well as one that dimly rose up in his brain as connected with a family tradition-traditional to him, though all had occurred within ten years-of long and total estrangement from friends and family, and, finally, of total disappearance. Boy as Gervase was, when this event took place, and heedless as he had listened long ago to the conjectures regarding Mr. Westmore himself,-the mystery of disappearance, guilt, as well as the interest and the intricate in romance, began only to grow more and more, and his excitement grew feverish and uncontrollable. 
               Leaving Gervase, however, to his musings, his fresh plans, and his return, we must now look to those we have for some time neglected. 
               Roundabout, the first mate, was, as we have already said, inclined to "take his ease at his inn," though, while on duty, a more zealous and faithful officer could not be found. As his position with Captain Leechline (saving the difference of their respective grades of commander and officer) was one of the warmest friendship and familiarity; the former, too easily disposed perhaps, winked at the derelictions of his officer when ashore, and there being but little to do, and that little devolving upon the good-natured Bob Jackson, our first mate had a time of it more consistent with the amusement of the naval heroes of Smollett than the present day. Located in a pleasant boarding-house, in the neighborhood of the landing-place of the harbor (where for free pay he had little opposition), from his window he could hail a friend or a messmate when he wanted company,-and on this present afternoon he had bestowed a bowl of punch on the carpenter and one or two others of his shipmates, and just as the dusk stole on, he was becoming melancholy for lack of company to replace those whom duty had sternly demanded to depart. 
               Large and burly of form which was clad in the loose and shaggy trowsers, and pea-jacket of the rover of the ocean, his unfrilled shirt exposing a breast broad as a door, hirsute as a bear's, and red as a fire-brick, and a great round face beaming with good humor and irascibility, Roundabout sat opposite the open window, with a half-smoked cigar in his hand, and his elbow on the table, where the debris of a bowl of punch, half a bottle of rum, a piece of junk, bread, cheese and other eatables, were flanked by unclean glasses, tobacco-pipes, and other ministrants to the comfort of strong and capacious stomachs. The mate, at this moment, had an aspect truly melancholy, and his musings took the tone of a man who had been injured. 
               "Left in the lurch! Not a rascal to brew a can, or help me to bail it out! Bless my eyes! if this isn't the most ungrateful world as ever a British mariner, hove up high and dry and no consort in sight, was left to shift for himself in--Halloa!" he added, peering out towards the landing-place, "is that Jack Martingale? Jack, my boy!" he shouted out with the voice of a stentor. "No; it's not him,-some 'long-shore lubber going home to his picaninnies;" and, with a sigh, he began to uplift his sorrow in that seaman's ditty, so remarkably suggestive of comfort and snugness afloat: 
                     "One night came on a hurricane,"
                   and the enormous volume of tone which issued from his deep chest, combined with the lugubrious style of the air in which Roundabout conveyed his sorrows, was pretty much as if the growling of "a bear with a sore head" had been literally realized. In this amusement he was roused by a sharp and sudden knocking at the door. 
               "Ah!" muttered Roundabout, stopping short in disgust, "I suppose it's the she-commodore of this blessed establishment as is come to tell me I mus'n't disturb the inmates. Why don't they come in, then, and be companionable, then? Knock away, my deary!" continued the mate, in derision, pursuing his theme- 
                      
                        "A stiff nor'-wester's blowing, Bill; 
                        Hark! don't you--" 
                     
                   "Well, why don't you come in, then?" he added, impatiently, stopping his chant, and turning half round. The door did open, and in walked Bob Jackson, closing it after him. 
               "What, Bobby, my hearty!" cried Roundabout, delighted. "What cheer-eh, old boy? I'm as glad to see you as a breeze in calm latitudes. Bring yourself to an anchor," continued the hospitable mate; "there's knife and fork; cut into the meat-help yourself. Split my binnacle, if this isn't refreshing!" and then lifting up his resonant voice, coming from cavernous lungs that could make themselves heard above a tempest, he shouted, "A-hoy! house, a-hoy! D'ye hear? Tumble up! tumble up!" 
               In effect, while Bob seated himself at the table, having had no opportunity of giving a reply to the mate's greeting, the hasty rush of feet on the stairs announced that Roundabout's "hail" had reached the ears of those below; and the next moment the bluff, buxom landlady appeared, followed by a dirty, slipshod waiter. The former was attempting to remonstrate, with a dignified air, against the energetic summons of the straightforward mate, when the latter, not liking or fearing this, interrupted her with- 
               "Now, stow all. Send up some more junk, cold fowl, bread, and bottled ale, and a ton of sugar. Let the cook there put a fire under the boiler; we shall want a few gallons of water; start another bottle or two of rum. Punch, punch, ma'am, that's what we want, and no long yarns between; and so, you white nigger," addressing the waiter, "look quick, and if there's a drop of rum short, my eye, you'll catch it! Now vanish! both of you, vanish!" he roared out, in a tone of such fury, as made mistress and waiter incontinently depart. 
               "Now, Bobby, my hearty, what cheer?" once more demanded the first mate, stretching out his hand, in a friendly way, and cordially grasping the hand given him in return, with a fresh warmth of friendship. 
               "Dog's weather and hard duty-wet and dry-a swamp or an oven-and stowing away the cargo, doesn't improve it!" replied Bob, who had plied his knife and fork with great skill and rapidity in the interim, and now laid them down, at the same time casting a glance at the bay, where the taut masts of the Lively Sally were seen sharply marked on the darkening sky of evening. 
               "When these people have brought in the punch, and cleared the decks, Bobby, we'll have a quiet glass and a quiet yarn. You'll find there plenty of cigars," continued the mate, bustling about officiously, persuading himself that Jackson tacitly pledged himself to remain, since the latter did not contradict his plans nor stop his proceedings. "Ah! here he comes!" he said, "and the punch is smoking hot! Heavens, what nectar!" 
               The waiter entered the room with a bowl of punch, and, clearing away the table, put it with clean glasses thereon; then lighting the candles, as the dusk was stealing on, he left the friends to themselves; and, as Bob drew nearer, Roundabout's honest heart expanded. 
               For an hour yet he was sure of a companion panion; and, like princes of old, who kept dependants to amuse them, he would have spared no expense to secure one after another, so that the feast and revel were only prolonged. 
               "Now, Bob," said he, rubbing his hands, "let's taste the liquor before paying out another word. Here's to the Lively Sally, master, mates, and crew. Hip! hip! hurrah!" and draining off his capacious glass, he pronounced it superb, and added, confidentially, that under his instructions, he made no doubt, that the waiter would soon become a proficient in the brewing of punch, and might, in fact, soon hold himself in that department as unrivalled. 
               "Well, Bob, my hearty," said Roundabout, a third time, and with great joviality, "what cheer?" 
               "Not much to boast of," replied Bob; "but I am getting rather anxious: for the last few days the skipper has been ailing. He's pale, shivering, altogether shaky-and what it's from, hang me if I know." 
               "Why, you don't mean to say that old Leechline, who's as tough as a rhinoceros and as strong as an elephant, is going into a fit of the doldrums, like a young girl?" said Roundabout, gravely, eyeing his brother officer. 
               "I'm afraid that he's going to break bulk," returned Bob, quite as gravely. 
               "We must have in the carpenters, my lad," returned the first mate, sipping his punch-"I mean the doctors. It won't do to have the old fellow laid up." 
               "He must have caught a fever, or got a cold," said Bob. 
               "A cold!" laughed Roundabout, hoarsely. "A seaman that has stood in rain and brine, with a northern squall blowing in his teeth half his life-stood there like the Eddystone Lighthouse-catch cold? What next, I should like to know?" added Roundabout, scornfully. 
               "I can't make it out," Bob went on, the smoke of his cigar curling in wreaths from between his lips. "He turned into his cot this afternoon, and I got the cook to make him a mess; and when I left the brig, he had not shown himself; and I don't think he will for the next day or two. I'm thinking as you'll have to come on board and lend me a hand in getting ready for sea." 
               The first mate's countenance fell; and, leaning his hirsute chin on his hand, after having solaced himself with a glass of punch, he appeared to be weighing over the necessity of bestirring himself with the annoyance consequent on the proposed interruption to his ease and relaxation. 
               "Humph!" he growled at last; "it's cursedly provoking-split me, if it isn't! But if so be as he is hove down, why there's no help; and so, Bob, my son, I'll be with you in the morning." 
               "That's right," said Bob, much gratified. "I was sure you would. Everything has been going on at a smart rate, so far as the stowage of the cargo is concerned; but there are sails to be bent, and the running gear all rove afresh; and--" 
               "Aye, aye, I see how it is," interrupted Roundabout; "more hands are wanted to the work; and, d'ye see?" he added, as if a sudden thought struck him, "I'll send him a bottle or two of old Jamaica that would float a marlinspike; that's the physic for the old hard-a-weather. But have you seen that young slip of a Gervase?" 
               "No," replied Bob. "I went up to the hotel, and inquired for him, but I found that he had gone out." 
               "Can't make out what he does with himself," growled the mate. "The fellow could take his tumbler, for I've seen him; but shiver my timbers! if I could get him to sit out a bout with me, since I've been ashore. What are you grinning at, you son of a gun?" demanded Roundabout, as his face relaxed into a smile. 
               "Only that if Gervase were to sit out one of your bouts, you old porpoise, he'd be a couple of days in getting his legs steady and his head clear again; and if you've ever seen him toss off his can of flip, you have not seen him carry any sail in your wake; and he rather avoids this sort of thing than courts it," said Bob, pointing to the liquor. 
               "He's a milk-sop," said the mate; "but no-no-fair play; the lad's head is only soft; his heart is all right, and I like him as if he were my own son. Well, he was out; what did you do then?" 
               "Well, then I thought of the German," replied Bob, filling up a pause by moistening his cigar with another glass of punch. 
               "The German!" exclaimed Roundabout, with as much of a start as his phlegmatic nature would permit him to exhibit. 
               "Ay, he's a smart fellow at doctoring; and so I left word for him to go on board." 
               "Humph!" grunted Roundabout, replenishing the empty glasses. 
               "What do you mean by 'humph!' eh, you grampus?" asked Bob, sharply. 
               "I'll tell you what it is, Bob," was the grave and measured reply: "that there German is a clever fellow, I've no doubt; and knows a thing or two, and is a good doctor to boot; and can plug a gun-shot wound, or splice a broken limb, or staunch a cutlass cut, and so on, with e'er a gallipot-lubber of the lot; but if I was on my beam-ends, my lad, and the life was leaking out of me, I'd rather have a handful of oakum, to make lint, or the carpenter-rough sea-dog as he is-to make me a tourniquet-splinters, they call 'em-or the water-saps of the black cook, than have that very clever fellow alongside of my hulk-that's all." 
               When the mate delivered one of his decisive and oracular opinions, it was done with an emphasis and force of conviction that was always calculated to produce a striking effect upon his auditory; and the concluding thumps with which he made the table crack, while the glasses danced and jingled perilously, the one against the other, on the present occasion, had the usual result upon Bob, who at first gazed on him in mute astonishment, which gave way to an uneasy kind of surprise. 
               "I don't understand you, messmate," said he to Roundabout. "There's no harm in him, is there? Do you mean that he would be dangerous? Tut! such a thing is impossible; and what could put so absurd a notion into your head, unless it's from an extra dose of that liquor, is more than I can imagine." 
               "Log it down, my lad, that Jack Roundabout told you it; and if I'm not right, I'm a horse, that's all." 
               "But right about what?" asked Bob, impatiently. "What can you know of Rufels? what have you seen more than I have, that should make your stupidity so very suspicious?" 
               "No insolence to your officer," said Roundabout, with comic gravity. "You wouldn't like a mast-heading when I came on board, eh? What do I know? Maybe, much-mayhap, little-perhaps, nothing at all. Wet your whistle, and try another cigar." 
               "I wish you'd speak out," urged Bob. "If this man is not to be trusted, let me know why. I don't feel inclined to trust the captain under any hands that I wouldn't trust my life to, freely. Why don't you speak, man?" 
               "Oh, the captain will be all right," said Roundabout, into whose brain the punch was making its way. 
               "Then what did you go speaking in so mysterious a way about the German for?" asked Bob, wrathfully. 
               "Oh, I don't know-a whim, that's all. Only I have seen that same German, some years ago, if I'm not mistaken, and--but--I'll spin you a short yarn, if you're not too tired to listen, Bob, my boy;" and he drew his chair nearer the table. 
               "Let's have it right off the reel, by all means," said Bob, briskly plying his glass, and hoping to gain something out of his messmate's loquacity, that he could not comprehend from his muttered inuendoes. "By all means spin your yarn; here we are at broadsides, and now fire away!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               AN OBSTACLE REMOVED.-THE BETROTHAL. 
               THE mate had recovered his importance. A hazy dignity spread like a halo around his head, which now and then nodded to and fro, with an independent and decisive jerk, curious to observe. A look of pursy pride, "clewed up," as Bob termed it, the corners of his mouth; and altogether Roundabout had the air of one holding a potential sway for the time over his comrade, which he was determined to use. 
               "It was long after war-time," began the mate, "best part of a dozen years ago-" 
               "Halloo!" interrupted Bob, "is this the old yarn of the gun-boats, that turned out to be so many yawls drifting from the fishing-ground?" 
               "And if it be, what then-you know nothing!" surlily growled the mate. 
               "Why, that you may coil all down again. Don't pay out any more, that's a good fellow. 'War-time, and a dozen years ago!'" repeated Bob, with a bitter emphasis; "why this yarn's worn threadbare-worse used than a bad laundress would use your shirt. I'm ashamed of you!" said Bob, in extreme disgust, burying the latter, however, in his glass. 
               "Are you?" returned the immovable Roundabout. "Well, then, it's just like your ill-manners, you snob; for if you'd a listened, you'd aheard as it wasn't the old gun-boat yarn though," added he, in a lower tone; "that was a yarn once as firm as the heart of a mast. To be sure, it's pretty well gone into ravellings-and then," turning to Bob, "you'd aheard about the German-" 
               "The German!" echoed Bob. 
               "The German!" repeated a third voice in the room, which made both these bold men turn suddenly round, with faces in which something that seemed like a momentary fear was written. Their eyes met the erect, rigid form of Rufels! His eyes beamed with an almost intolerable glare. His face was ghastly in its unnatural whiteness. His broad chest panted for the breath he seemed to have lost, but which agitation he sought to suppress; and with an effort, which proved the immense self-command he possessed, he, despite his pallor, maintained the most outward calm. 
               "I heard," said he, tranquilly, turning to Bob, "that you had called at the hotel, and, intending to go on board the brig, I called here in passing, thinking it just possible that I might see you a moment." 
               "Humph!" said Roundabout. "Well, as you are here, Mister, let's see if you can toss off a glass of punch. Bob, fill one;" and as Bob obeyed, and pushed it towards Rufels, the latter took it up and drained it at a draught. 
               Roundabout's face brightened commendingly. This was, to him, whatever might have been the revelation he had begun to confide to his friend, a significant indication that the fellow was not so bad after all; for a man who could take his glass honestly, could scarcely be so evil disposed, as his very dark hints would have suggested. 
               "The fact is," said he, "that the skipper is ill, and Bob, for want of a better doctor, thought of you." 
               "I see," Rufels replied; "and I am ready to go with you. I dare say it is nothing very serious. Did-you-see any-one up yonder?" indicating the hotel by a gesture. 
               "No," said Bob, in answer. "I first inquired for Gervase, but he had gone out, and had not returned-" 
               "Out!" repeated Rufels, slowly, and giving an irrepressible start. "Not yet returned! Ah!" and then he added, "but I fear I was interrupting a conversation?" and he glanced inquiringly from one to the other. 
               "Oh," said Bob, readily, "we were just about to mention your skill in medicine, and you happened to enter at the instant;" and Bob touched Roundabout's foot with his own, as if to urge upon the latter the necessity of caution-a hint that the mate received with a scowl; for that worthy, in the blunt honesty of his nature, had little idea of deception. 
               "Ah, yes," he grumbled out; "but, confound it, Bob, don't break one's shins with your horse's hoof." 
               "Beg pardon," stammered Bob, rising up. "It was an accident." Then, addressing Rufels, he added, "I am ready; and, if you are going now, the boat is waiting at the quay." 
               "Yes, by all means," said the German, hastily, "let us depart; there may not, in fact, be a moment to lose;" and with a hasty "good night," they departed, leaving the discomfited Roundabout to finish the bowl, and to resume his usual ditty, till, overpowered with sleep, he was assisted to his bed. 
               The boat was speedily rowed to the Lively Sally; and the moment that Rufels mounted the deck, he descended into the cabin, and found the captain in his cot, stricken with a sudden and violent fever, the result of his exertions, want of caution, and the sudden changes in the temperature of the climate, to which he, with the rest, was exposed. 
               Bob was there also, and admired the skill and dexterity, as well as the extreme attention with which Rufels composed a febrifuge, and, having given it to Captain Leechline, he expressed an intention to sit up during the night in the sick man's cabin, to watch the progress or the change of the fever. Bob, having every confidence in him, and, pleased that the offer of watching had been made, sought his own pillow to snatch a few hours' brief but soundly-refreshing sleep. 
               In the meanwhile, and for hours after, Rufels was in a profound reverie. His clenched hands and knitted brows would have betrayed the intense nature of his thoughts, wild, conflicting, and multitudinous, had there been any one at hand to have observed him. The fact that Gervase had been absent at the same time as himself, he instinctively applied to his own absence, and a chill of fear crept over him-not so much that physical fear which quails at the aspect of present danger as its uncertain nature, the embarrassing of his plans, while he brooded on the possibility that the young man might have suspected, might have watched, might know all. And again he dismissed this as improbable, accounting for his doubts by his fears, and at an interval of colder reasoning dismissed them altogether. 
               Occasionally, too, a gleam of triumph would lighten up his still pallid features, that for all their natural swarthiness of his complexion, were the more strikingly haggard. Rubbing his hands with a fierce rush of joy, he seemed like a man congratulating himself upon the success of a hazard that contained much in it that was of a most dangerous nature, then anon bending over the fire that was in the stove of the cabin; or, after attending to the draught which he was preparing against the captain's waking, he again lost himself in a train of fancies that were sinister enough, and from which, were they but known, the first mate's distrust would have been well enough grounded to justify any suspicions his wisdom could have fashioned. Bob thought little more of what Roundabout had let drop, it must be remembered; for the latter had a peculiarity, quite his own, in mystifying the most plain and obvious things, and this he looked upon as one of his sagacious fancies, beyond the reach of a common sense comprehension. 
               When the morning came, the fever had but little abated, and Rufels, having administered to the patient another cooling draught, expressed an intention to go on shore (when the first mate came, as Bob had given him to understand would be the case), in order to prepare and bring the medicines the case might demand, adding an intention of remaining on board for a few days until a crisis in the fever took place. In due order, therefore, Roundabout made his appearance, and Rufels went back in the boat. 
               It required all the nerve he was master of to meet Gervase; for the doubts heightened by his fears, came again with renewed force. On inquiry, he learned that Gervase had returned very late with his dog and gun, having wandered far into the plains, and being doubtless tired, had not yet made his appearance. Seeking his own rooms, Rufels locked himself in, and busied himself with the contents of a small medicine-chest, which he preserved with the greatest care, and from which he sealed up a packet or two, together with some stoppered-phials containing potent essences distilled with his own hand. 
               In this occupation he was disturbed by a knock at the door, and having put aside his package, he opened it and admitted Gervase, who wore the same grave, calm face so habitual to him, and which in its impassibility not only rivalled the German, but at times confounded the latter by its impenetrability. 
               "Good day," said Gervase. "Wandering out last evening with my gun, I found that Jackson had been here with news that the captain was ill.--" 
               "He is," replied Rufels, slightly agitated. "I went to see him immediately on my return, and have but lately left him. In fact, I came to make up some medicines, and I am going back again, and I shall stay a few days on board with him." 
               "I am glad of that," said Gervase. "I will come on board to see him in the course of the day. Is his illness of a dangerous nature?" 
               "I cannot tell, until the crisis of the calenture arrives. He has been struck by a subtle and envenomed breath; but if his strong constitution be not suffering under some violent shock, he will soon recover." 
               "I trust so," said Gervase, earnestly; "for any mishap to him would be pregnant with the most fearful consequences." 
               "He is then bound for England?" asked Rufels. 
               "He is; and his arrival lately delayed, will be anxiously looked for," replied the young man. 
               "It is a great pity that the ship should sail just now," observed Rufels, in a musing tone, and like a man who had a deep conviction to urge in favor of his remark. 
               "Why?" asked Gervase, curtly. "It seems to me that she has rendered us more aid than we had a right to count upon." 
               "Because of the enormous service she could be to us. If you have the power, and would exercise it, one voyage more to the gulf, and an expedition to the inland sea, would do more than the labor of many years. I wish I could persuade you--" said Rufels, and he paused. 
               "I am persuaded, but I have no power; and this I tell you frankly: because I think you had led yourself to believe that I had. Assure yourself, therefore," said Gervase, "that your idea was wrong." 
               "And you go yourself-is that decided?" continued the German, with an appearance of interest. "I need not tell you that your absence, in addition, will be a serious loss to me, and to all of us, since we cannot work without you." 
               "I must; but I mean to return and look after my interest, depend upon it," said Gervase. 
               "I fancy that you will be regretted, at least by one. I presume, however," continued Rufels, with a smile, "that she will act the part of agent for you here while I toil alone." 
               "You mean-" and Gervase paused. 
               "I mean Maria. But, pshaw! why keep up the pretence of ignorance. The silly secrecy that made her pass first for my wife, or sister, or relative, what not-is exploded. I am convinced she loves you." 
               "Loves me!" and Gervase started. 
               "Yes," replied Rufels; "or I read the human heart to little purpose. Sit down, and since we have spoken of this, let us be frank. I speak like an adventurer as I am. With her wit, beauty and accomplishments, she could assist a man to obtain a position in the great world of Europe such as few women even; and with an acquired wealth such as is offered us, what could you not become?" 
               "And yet you permitted this great agency to escape you who knew her excellent qualities so well!" 
               "What would you have said?" said Rufels, with a laugh. "I could not make her love me, though I would have placed my heart under her feet;" and he spoke with such a depth of sincerity in his voice, that Gervase was staggered for a moment. 
               "Hypocrite!" he murmured to himself; "and yet it is not impossible but that without knowing it, his designs may have grown into passion, and love become his destiny." 
               Gervase, after the silence of a minute or two spoke, and with grave earnestness. 
               "I will not deny to you that such an idea has struck me. I have an admiration for her, which I will not pretend to conceal, and if it were possible to make an impression on a heart too much accustomed to live in exclusive loneliness I would-nay, I have sued for her love, and I, too, have been repulsed." 
               "Shall I aid you?" asked Rufels, readily. "Have no suspicion of my motives," he continued. "I am selfish enough to find my own interests too closely bound up in this. If you cannot associate her with us and our future, whatever form that may take, she will some day depart and carry her influence into other circles." 
               "If it were so," said Gervase, half musingly, "I know not how my purposes might be changed. I do not constitute you my deputy in the matter, nor will I woo by proxy But," and he fixed his eyes immovably, "you look pale." 
               "No matter for my looks," interrupted Rufels, fiercely; "I am worn-anxious. I have sat up for the last six or eight hours-Go on with what you were saying." 
               "I was about to ask you. whether you had any reason for thinking that your interference would have any effect with her, supposing that was necessary?" added Gervase. 
               "Yes, I believe that it would," was the reply. 
               "I am curious to know how it is you could influence her in my favor, when I failed myself--" 
               "You have attempted to win her, then?" broke in Rufels. 
               "And as much surprised how you can do for another that which you could not do for yourself!" said the youth, not heeding the somewhat rude interruption. 
               "I count upon an element of a woman's nature, which I either know better than you, or which my habits of observation have shown to exist where others have never dreamed of it. I mean her own perversity-her contradiction-her proneness to act in entire opposition to the sense and reason which give us men--" 
               "And out of this chaos, you promise yourself success?" and Gervase smiled contemptueusly. "Come, come, you must count upon something more certain than this abstract mode of reasoning. It may do in logic but can scarcely do so in love. Let me know it then." 
               There was a long pause, and both men stood for a few moments looking with inquiring looks upon each other. Gervase knew why he was reading his associate's face, and the other only still debated whether there was a suspicion or whether there was not. 
               "I premise nothing, and I only hope from what I judge," said Rufels at length. "Beyond that I have no influence, and know of no other persuasive means save that I mentioned of pleading your cause. Why do you think so? for that you do is very clear." 
               "Think so-think what?" asked Gervase abruptly, and like one who had lost the thread of a discourse; his vacant look told the German that he retained no afterthought-had no knowledge that the latter might dread. 
               "It strikes me that we are dealing in riddles-"began Rufels. 
               "Which neither propounded, and which neither can unravel. We can neither of us, however skilful as we think ourselves to be, maintain a position out of a paradox. To revert. You believe that you have some better knowledge of this woman's mind than I have, and admitting that, you may possibly do, what you imply as a promise." 
               "You love this woman, then?" asked the German, who felt an almost incredible relief at the turn the conversation was taking. 
               A flush mounted to the cheeks and brow of Gervase. "Why should I hesitate or deny it?" said he half aloud. "Well, yes," said he, "I love her; I would unite her fate with mine; and whether to greatness or to utter failure-whether to joy or misery,-whether to success or ruin, I would walk along life's path with her, and have no fear, save that instead of wandering out of the way into darkness, just reserve sufficient care to seek for it again should such be the case." 
               "Then," said Rufels, "before I go on board I will see her, and I have a conviction that it will not be so fruitless as you fancy. In any case, even in failure, you will not be compromised. See her yourself this evening, and you will then know the result, and let me hear it next morning, as I shall not quit the vessel for the next two or three days at least." 
               "I will," was the reply. 
               "By-the-bye, did you wander far last night?" asked Rufels curiously. "I was myself out by the river." 
               "North of the town, into the plains," answered Gervase, "but found no sport, and there I fell in with our friend, Roger Wattles, who looks like a hale patriarch among his growing flocks, and with whom I spent a pleasant hour or two." 
               "Ah," said Rufels, evidently still more relieved, for the direction Gervase named lay wide apart from the place where a moment had transformed him into an assassin. 
               "In effect I merely meant to tell you that I was about to go and give our friend the Speculator a call, and to deliver any message you might have." 
               "None. Good day. Say I wish him well. And now, do not forget the evening;" and Rufels walked with him to the door. 
               "Nor your attention to the captain," retorted Gervase, who departed, followed by "Faithful," who had uneasily remained without, his whining occasionally breaking out into a long howl, which evidently jarred upon the nerves of Rufels. 
               A smile, bitter, sinister, sneering, followed by a look of exultation, played on the sardonic visage of the German. He then remained for some time longer in deliberation, and, as having arranged his plan, he sat down to the table, and hastily began to write. That done he rang the bell. 
               In reply to a note which he desired the waiter to deliver to Maria, she herself shortly after appeared, handsomely costumed in a plain, but elegantly-fitting morning dress. 
               The interview that followed took place within closed doors, the German taking every ry precaution against interruption, as much to the surprise as to the annoyance of Maria, who, on protesting against this procedure, was silenced by a look, and next by a word, which froze the whole current of her blood, and converted, as by a blighting spell, the woman beaming with youth and loveliness, into something half earthly, her very blood frozen at the fountains, until rigidly seated, she appeared like a corpse partially resuscitated. 
               The particulars of this interview are not necessary to be given here; they will be given at the proper time and place. Suffice it to say, that she who had hitherto been so proud, so defiant, in the air of inexpressible contempt, which had heightened the irradiation of her beauty, quitted the room obedient, humbled, her spirit broken, her will conquered, having solemnly sworn obedience to the mandate of the inflexible man, now more than ever the master of her destiny, and she even ceased to have hope in heaven. 
               For in fact, by the possession of the seaman's secret, she had now no power or will to resist. 
               After this had taken place, Rufels locked up his room, and with his medicine went on board the Lively Sally, (his intentions on the preceding evening, as regarded the murdered man, being thus prevented,) where he found Captain Leechline delirious. As this was a case demanding both consummate skill and the closest attention, Rufels was soon absorbed in his duties, with which we will now leave him, Roundabout's distrust having become transformed into confidence, through the marvellous freemasonry of the glass of punch of the preceding night. 
               The day passed on, the afternoon followed, and the cool, calm evening came, and the moon, a large, luminous splendor, lighting the noble garden, and bathing in refulgence the form of Maria, who sat gazing in a state of stupefaction upon the bay. Her senses were apparently lost in torpor that weighed upon her, for she heard not an advancing step drawing nigh, nor did she start at the sound of a voice gently calling her by name. It was only the touch of a hand upon her arm that roused her, and it was with a kind of shudder that she looked up into the face of Gervase, which was beaming with frank good nature, and the sincerest emotion. 
               "Maria," he said, "once more tell me why you are unhappy. Must I still bid you the farewell to be uttered if I depart?" 
               "No! oh, no, no," she said with strange energy. "Stay with me, comfort me, for I need it much-oh, very much." Her voice so imploring, and her manner so confiding, struck a chord in his heart which vibrated responsively. 
               "I will stay with you, I will comfort you, and I shall never be absent from you; for if I go, you will go with me; if I plight to you my troth now, and receive yours in return, till the sacred rites of the Church make you mine, it will be that my home, my place of rest, my hopes, my life, and my love, will be yours also." She lifted his hand to her lips, and as she kissed it, he felt that hot tears were dropping fast upon it. Thinking, perhaps it was better her emotion should have full vent, he did not seek to interrupt its course, but sat on the seat beside her. 
               "Listen to me, Maria," he said after a short pause, and speaking in that deep and earnest tone which carries so much conviction with it. "Listen to me. I love you as a man loves a woman whom he would make his wife, to love, to cherish, to respect, and to protect while life lasts. If you have indeed felt that reciprocity for me, which it has been my ambition to awaken, in one sense, I have conquered an obstacle that I feared lay in my path. The world is open to me, and my course is in part marked out. I have no inordinate love for wealth; and though the enterprise of Rufels has placed within my reach the treasures of an empire, yet the next attempt to add to the stock already acquired, may not be so easily obtained, but may be fatal. I am therefore indifferent about making another attempt; and there is beginning to be a terrible interest about what we have already obtained, enough to serve a man for occupation, mental and physical. Between me and my happiness there lies but one thing. You love me, do you not?" 
               "I-love-you, Gervase," she said, and not another word was needed to confirm the answer. 
               "Then all that is needed now between us, Maria, is confidence, implicit, unbounded confidence. Does your love extend so far, that you can now bestow it freely and fully upon me?" 
               "Confidence, Gervase?" she said; but her eyes had again become vacant, and her thoughts were again scattered. 
               "Yes," said Gervase; "confide to me your whole history, without reservation and without fear." 
               "My history!" she exclaimed, in a tone of terror; "oh! never, never." 
               "If there is villainy to baffle, we will baffle it. If there is a wrong to avenge, I will avenge it. If there is justice to be rendered, I will demand it; and if there is aught to exact, it shall be exacted. You speak, forget not, to no mere lad who acts from impulse, and is led by mere passion. I am a man, acute, strong, and possess a will as inflexible as this man. Of what he is, I have now more than a mere suspicion; and as regards him, I need to know but little. But it is of you-you, whom I love-you, whom I adore-you, so fitted for a destiny I feel ambitious enough to carve out for you-it is of you that I would know more-all. Do not hesitate, I beseech you. Trust me, and do not tremble; for I am strong, and can support and comfort you. Speak." 
               "I am bound by an oath, a terrible oath," she whispered, hoarsely. "He bound me by words I dare not utter. Oh, Gervase!" she exclaimed, in anguish, casting herself upon his breast, "press me no more, for but for I this terrible oath, and at any hazard I would indeed reveal to you, all you would know." 
               Gervase was silent. He could urge her no more. At last he said to her, "You have at least one enemy the less to fear-" 
               "In Rufels!" and she faintly smiled. "I fear nothing if you do not quit my side." Gervase shook his head solemnly. 
               "The seaman whom you dreaded is dead!" and with some curiosity he bent his eyes upon her face, so white, over which a spasm instantly flashed, but left it unruffled the next moment. If there was fear in her look, there was also a fearful joy. 
               "I know it," she said; "but how came you to know it?" 
               "You know it!" exclaimed Gervase, in his turn. 
               "Because he who slew him told me of it. But how came you to know it, I ask? Did you see-did you hear aught-" 
               "I saw the deed done, and I know little or nothing more," replied Gervase. 
               "You know little or nothing more!" she said, wonderingly. "What was there to know, since the dead cannot speak? Alas! what do I say? Rufels knows nothing of this?" she continued, in a quick, changed, alarmed tone. "He has no suspicion that you are aware of what he had the hardihood to confide unto me?" 
               "Nothing. If he suspects, it can only be a suspicion arising from his fears. But for what reason he dared to confide his atrocious secret to you I cannot apprehend," continued Gervase, the color now mounting to his cheeks. "I cannot feel easy that a ruffian must share his murderous secrets with a woman I would call my wife." 
               "Alas, my friend," said Maria, in accents so melancholy that they softened him in a moment; "it is but part of the fearful fate that has so long and so often surrounded my path and cast a night upon me, ere my afternoon came--" 
               "Say no more, Maria," Gervase broke in. "Say no more; this cannot last long; and if I hide my knowledge from him now, and do not place him in the hands of the magistrates, it is in the first place, that my ultimate aim would be marred, and justice is scarcely yet strong-handed enough, while my own story would be rendered improbable by very many things. Of him, of the dead, we will say nothing. Let us speak of ourselves, Maria; for I love you despite this mystery which takes as much the form of guilt as it does of innocence. I love you-I cannot but believe you have been wronged. Be it my part therefore, to see your wrongs redressed." 
               So, calm and tranquil, the solemn moonshine fell in upon them, and in soft, melodious murmurs the evening air sang among the myrtles, and swept in dying cadences, far, far away, as they trothed their plight.-For a long time they sat together, and the voice of Gervase was now soft and gentle. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               AN EXCURSION. 
               GERVASE had not gone on board the Lively Sally on that day, and consequently the German was almost alone with the captain the whole of the time, interrupted in his attentions to the sick man once or twice during that period by the friendly anxiety of Roundabout, or of Bob Jackson, who came in to inquire how he fared, and to their great joy, either the worthy captain's strength was overcoming the insidious attack, or the potent medicines of Rufels were too irresistible; suffice it to say, that Leechline was freed from the violence of the fever, at all events; but it was necessary that the greatest care should be taken with him, and by him. 
               It was about ten o'clock on the following morning that a boat from the quay pulled down the bight of the river into the bay, and steering alongside of the barque, Gervase, with a light step, and with a cheerful face, leaped on the deck, where he was welcomed with a grin of satisfaction by more than one of the crew with whom he had been a decided favorite, and with a hasty greeting, and a shake of the hands with the first mate and his friend Bob; he went down into the cabin, where he found Leechline snug enough in a cot in his little "state-room," (as they pompously designate the equivocal accommodations of about eight feet by five, on board "fine old merchantmen,") where Rufels was carefully preparing him a draught. 
               The salutation between Gervase and the German was apparently cordial enough, but the latter, by his marked expression and inquiring face, had, no doubt, an extreme curiosity excited which was only repressed by the presence of the captain, now just awake, and who received Gervase's salutation and shake of the hand, with a cordiality and strength of feeling that awoke the liveliest emotion in the young man's breast. 
               "Do not agitate him too much," said Rufels fels, gently; "he must not be disturbed nor excited." 
               "Gervase, my dear boy," said Leechline, faintly, "a sight of you is good for me; and as for disturbing me, I don't think that can do any harm; a little excitement as the doctor there fears, is the best thing in the world-I feel it so. You see me nearly on my beam ends, but we'll have all square and taut again soon, eh, doctor?" 
               "Let us hope so, captain," responded Rufels, gravely. "But you must be carfeul, and obey my directions implicitly." 
               "That's what they all say," replied the other, impatiently. "But I suppose they're all right." 
               "You must get well, captain, as soon as ever you can," said Gervase, at this juncture. "And the first day you come on shore, I invite you to my wedding;" and he cast a glance of intelligence on the German, who started, and then smiled with the same look of satisfaction. 
               "Wedding!" exclaimed the captain in a tone of surprise. And then half raising himself in his bed, "you don't mean to say, my lad, that you've struck up a match here? What will the good folks at Bristol say, when you bring them home a copper-colored woman as your wife?" 
               Gervase laughed, as also did the German. 
               "She is not so brown, captain," said Gervase; "and on the contrary, she is very fair for a brunette." 
               "A what?" demanded Leechline; then shaking his head, he muttered, "Aye-aye, these younkers will be making fools of themselves, if they are not fooling the old folks or the young women. And who may she be then? for to tell you the truth, though the feminites are scarce and valuable in this far-away place-by the same token that I wish we were homeward bound, with every sheet drawing, and a nice breeze on the quarter-I don't think I should fancy any of them much, and the Lord forgive you if you've made a mess of it." 
               "And yet you know her very well," said Gervase, with a laugh, which the captain returned with an astonished stare. 
               "I know her?" he exclaimed, scratching his stubborn head of hair. 
               "Yes," replied Gervase: "she is no other than your late passenger, Madame Rufels, as we supposed her to be." 
               "And what is her name then?" asked Leechline. 
               "She will be called Maria Murray, when she is married. I suppose," interrupted the German, hastily. 
               "Phew!" whistled the captain: "hang me if this isn't just what I might have expected and yet never dreamed of it. Well my lad," he added, "she is a trim-built craft as ever man sighed for, that's a fact. And so you're going to be spliced?" 
               "Yes, as soon as you can come to the church with us." 
               "Humph! I should be glad to see the execution, if there must be one," and with a sigh that made Gervase smile as though the captain was lamenting one step he had taken in his lifetime. "Humph!" he said, "and do you mean to stay behind then, Gervase?" he asked, with some uneasiness of tone-"stay and let us sail away without you?" 
               "Well, I have not decided," was the cautious answer: and here he gave an imperceptible look towards the German, who was intently listening, while pretending to be engaged with his decoction. "It will depend pretty much upon my wife's decision, to which it is most likely I shall bow;" and by a second furtive look, Gervase saw this expression afforded Rufels no little satisfaction. 
               "I don't know what they'll say to me if they see me return alone, and I expect that your Uncle Murray will not be over pleased when I tell him that you have married a wife in Australia, and tied yourself up there." 
               "I don't think he'll be very angry," said Gervase deprecatingly. 
               "All his expectations knocked on the head, and his hopes of the business of Murray and Jackson, which you were to carry on, broken. Upon my word, Master Gervase," and the captain shook his head disconsolately, "I must say that I feel in a fix-jammed, like Jackson, betwixt the fly of the ensign and the mizzen rigging." 
               "Come, come, my old friend," said Gervase, in a light and happy tone, which was not without its effect; "things are not so bad as they seem, and I think you will admit so before you sail, therefore cheer up. As soon as the ceremony is over, I mean to invite all our friends, on board and ashore, (you will be very glad to hear that Smith is now doing a very wonderful building business, and that Roger Wattles is already a proprietor,) and we'll talk over our own matters, so as to decide them definitely-one part, in the first place, being to transfer our capital to England-with the consent of all, of course-" 
               "To England?" exclaimed Rufels, suddenly and suspiciously. "And wherefore there, my friend?" 
               "For one or two reasons," replied Gervase, frankly. "In the first place, for better security; for banks here are not so thoroughly established as to be quite safe, though of that I have no fear; and secondly, that the money itself may accumulate all the faster, for I need not tell you, with your penetration, Rufels-that in good financing hands, capital there just now, invested in railways and great undertakings, will multiply itself with a rapidity quite wonderful." 
               "Hah! yes, true," returned the German thus addressed; "and," added he, as if he had been cogitating in his own mind, "I give my consent at once." 
               "Very good," said the captain, "and in that case I give mine; for you know about these things much better than I do. Well, won't you take something before you go? Here, boy," and he called out for his greasy valet of a cabin-boy to spread his hospitable table; but Gervase assuring him that he needed nothing, having long since breakfasted heartily, the captain, somewhat loth, gave up the matter. 
               Roundabout and Bob Jackson coming below, after some general conversation about the ship's cargo, and the preparation for sea, and so on, was over, Gervase repeated his invitation to Bob and the first mate to come to his wedding, with very little circumlocution, telling them who the lady was. The bluff mate accepted at once, and so did Bob, grimly, in his surprise and disappointment, for he was disappointed, despite himself. In fact, seeing that Gervase had persisted, despite suspicion and doubt, in loving this woman, and, by the step he took, utterly destroying any pretensions Bob might have reserved to himself, the latter began to think he might have been rash and premature, and the certainty that Gervase, whose opinion and circumspection he had the greatest regard for, had totally disdained the meanness and fears he (Bob) had entertained, and the remembrance of all her exquisite loveliness, which, in the inflammable heart of the mate, still obscured the memory of Gervase's distant sister, or the flirting pastry-cook-all this heightened his sense of the loss, and while he began to think himself a most ill-used man, he confounded the high independence of Gervase, that, laughing at every fear, had decided and had won. It was therefore with a heart smarting between jealousy and annoyance, that he accepted the invitation, and wished his old companion joy; but Bob, whose heart was anything but malicious, forgot his chagrin during the bustle of the day, during which he was observed to work with redoubled energy, and no little fury; but, as in the night a fair vision of a lovely girl, with the features of Gervase, softened with a delicate and tender beauty, came to console him, Bob, the next morning, awoke with a raging anxiety for the ship to put to sea instantly, in order to arrive at Bristol the quicker. 
               In the meantime, leaving Rufels still on board with the captain, Gervase was again taken on shore, and then, for the first time, perhaps, went to the office of his consignees, and did there a good deal of serious and real work. That over, he hurried to the hotel, and walking with Maria in the garden, held a long and apparently very important conversation with her-touching their nuptials, doubtless. From that time, her cheerfulness, her spirits, her health, returned. She grew better, and the pale, sorrow-stricken, spectre-haunted being, became once more a collected, well-bred, accomplished, and lovely woman. 
               The only thing, indeed, that seemed to move her in any active manner, was her anxiety for Gervase. She seemed to dwell in his presence, and to be lost in his absence. That which had formerly dwelt upon her mind, gave place to a more delicious sentiment, and the oblivious draught of love, which she drank, as it were, with the whole energy of her energetic soul, made her forget, awhile, the sorrows that had surrounded her. She dwelt in a new atmosphere of glory and gladness, which clothed her with an irradiation that nothing could interfere with. The great yearning heart was filled with the object it thirsted for, and she was at peace. 
               The following day, a note from Rufels told Gervase that the captain was progressing most favorably, and that all was going on harmoniously on board, so that being thus released, as it were, from apprehension and alarm, Gervase put into execution a project which he had entertained, of taking Maria for a long excursion into the plains and neighboring country, during which they might call and see how their friends were getting on. Having secluded herself within the boundaries of the hotel and its grounds for so long, he doubted not that it would be an actual boon to her. 
               Maria joyfully consented, and as she had been a fearless and accomplished rider, it was determined to go on horseback; and two of the best and handsomest that could be procured, were saddled and brought to the door for them, on which they mounted, and slowly paced their way (followed by the ever attentive "Faithful") through the town, which was beginning to take an aspect quite of an English and familiar nature. 
               Melbourne, which occupied nearly a square mile of land, contained then full fifteen thousand inhabitants-contributions from almost every other country, and consequently a language and dialect of every kind met their ears. Lying on the right bank of the river Yarra-Yarra, (which name, by the by, is pronounced much in the same manner that a dog gives a snarling bark,) and brick being the prevailing substance used in building, the aspect of the whole still more reminded them of home. With several handsome public edifices and lines of shops, with its newspapers, clubs, and taverns, with its lively bustle of business, rivalling that of an active provincial town, Gervase saw there the evidences of commercial prosperity, from which he argued the most favorable results in the future. Carts and horses, with the importation of a few coaches, passing and repassing-groups of men at work, building, repairing streets, or in ware-houses or work-yards, clad in the English broad-cloth, the corduroy, or the woollen homespun of their own sheep; the whole afforded to the equestrians a most vivid picture, and Maria expressed herself beyond measure pleased with the gratification thus afforded. 
               More than one or two, as they passed, turned back to look on that elegant form, so handsomely clothed, whose lovely face, luxuriant hair, sparkling eyes, and magnificent mouth, formed a striking contrast to those they were in the habit of seeing daily, and could not but envy the good terms on which the stately and finely-formed young horseman who rode by her side, paying her the most assiduous attention, appeared to stand in relation to his fair companion. In truth, proud of his beautiful affianced, feeling somewhat of the ethereal lightness which the balmy atmosphere shed around him, being upon the best possible terms with himself, Gervase had rarely looked handsomer, as he bestrode his horse with the ease and grace of a bold cavalier; it is no wonder if the somewhat blunt and unrestrained expressions of admiration which reached his ear, afforded him an irrepressible delight. 
               They were bending their way, after passing out of the town, along an open plain, interspersed with here and there a lagoon, encircled with reeds, water-plants, and a kind of stunted heath, from the heart of which occasionally sprung up coveys of wild duck, teal, and other aquatic fowl, in vast numbers, that more than once Gervase was tempted to unsling his gun and fire at them; but the impossibility of bagging his game, and the uselessness of the slaughter, restrained him; and so, with an encouraging cry to the horses, the riders dashed along, and in little more than half an hour they entered Port Philip, the true seaport of, Melbourne, and soon found out the busy and bustling Albertus Magnus Smith, in a gingham coat, broad flapped palmetto hat shading a dusty countenance, with the most energetic of gestures, busied in overlooking a number of carpenters, bricklayers, and laborers, building a number of houses, a speculation into which he had rushed with an exemplary zeal, and which seemed likely to pay him cent. per cent. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE MEETING-THE ACCIDENT. 
               THE meeting was, of course, a joyous one. Smith was all congratulation and restlessness. He would have overwhelmed them with his hospitality; but Gervase intimating to him that they were about to go some miles farther to see Roger Wattles at his location, the speculator, who had not seen him for some time, decided to go with them; and ordering a horse with more boldness than discretion, and giving a number of directions in a breath, he, after some management, mounted, and they once again turned their horses' heads inland and began to make for the bush; that ubiquitous but dreaded locality, where the savage or the convict secretes himself. 
               They crossed plain after plain, either of sand or stunted grass. Now and then they came to a patch of land sheltered by a rising hillock or a line of gum-trees, where a wooden hut in the centre of the clearing, surrounded by tall Indian corn, or other vegetation, proved that some hardy son of the soil had pitched his tent there, and was prepared to struggle for mastery with the earth, and to wrest from her the treasures she yields so opulently to those who are most determined. Saluting the brown settler, they passed on. 
               "How that dingo of yours has grown," said Wattles with jovial heartiness, pointing to the dog which now crouched at the feet of Gervase, "since we picked him up a little, shivering, starving pup, by the river head. Ah! by George," he added with sudden recollection, "what a voyage, and what sights we saw, and what things we didn't see in the infernal darkness! I wonder if we're going there again! How are you, ma'am?" and he shook Maria once more by the hand, but not with the dislocating violence that accompanied the act to the two men. 
               "What beautiful birds!" exclaimed Maria, as they passed the Australian "lyrebird," and several black swans domesticated with others in a huge poultry-yard. 
               "Them birds," remarked Wattles, "are uncommon beautiful, but they don't sing; and I'd give 'em all for a blackbird or a thrush as I've heard whistling in the hedges in the month of August." 
               Before entering the ample and hospitable porch, Gervase stood a moment, looking round him, and contemplating what, in a few months, Anglo-saxon energy, perseverance, and tact had been enabled to do. To all the attractions of a majestic scenery that united the champaign landscape with a forest background, there lay, in addition to the large farm and out-houses of the new settler, at the rear his orchards, kitchen-garden, paddocks, and several smaller houses; forming quite a village, where a carpenter, a blacksmith, and a brick-layer had taken up their abode; and where, in all, some twenty stalwart men with their wives and children, formed the nucleus around which in the course of time an interior town would spring up. Every thing bore the marks of prosperity and labor. There was, to break the heavy and monotonous silence of the plains, the sound of ax and hammer, and the cheerful voices of men at work both in-doors and a-field. 
               "This," said he to Maria, while pointing to the country under culture around them, "is the true panacea for the poverty with which labor in all civilized communities is everlastingly cursed. Here is what shall convert the half-starved cotters and pauper laborers at home into sturdy independence and prosperity. Here is what will offer, in exchange for the squalor and the beggary, for the sin and the expiation of great towns and cities, health of body and largeness of mind. Here is room for the soul to grow to its full proportions; no longer to be rendered half idiotic by famine and fear. The broken-hearted toiler, the artisan in the factory, the ill-paid, pallid clerk at his desk, the milliner-dying daily, and making night hideous with her ghostly form, as some severe task-mistress watches that she sleeps not,-here is the Canaan for all their deprivations; and those whom England treated like a malignant stepdame, and gave to crime, misery, and death out of her embraces, will in another generation, have made themselves new homes in a new world; and the time will come when a man will be valued even for his blood and bones, which now, God knows, are scarcely worth the price of offal." 
               Startled by his bitter tone, as well as by his gravity, Maria, looking into his kindling eyes, laid her hand gently upon his arm, as if to restrain him from petulance; when, as his eyes met her earnest face, he laughed and said: "You think I am excited, and talking the cant of philanthropy, which would go no further?" 
               "I for one think you talk like a circulating library," said Smith, who had caught his younger friend's enthusiasm. 
               "And I think so, too," said Maria, in a low but distinct voice; "only there's a little reservation to make before we blame those at home so much." 
               "Behold here, then, what one man has done, my Maria, and then judge for yourself if such plenty, such property, and such prosperity is to be met with in the old country, on condition of labor alone." 
               "No, no," said Roger, frankly, turning to Gervase. "Dang it, lad! I like to be said 'Good boy' to, I must say, as well as e'er another, but not before I deserve it; and you must know I found a good deal done here to hand, but in a very bad state; and a little money and hard work did the rest. Besides that, I am like the mayor of the little town-ha! ha!" and he laughed sonorously. 
               The yeoman placed on the stout table a vessel of mighty ale, which, with his own hands and skill, he had brewed, with a potency that was greatly to his credit. He had grown his own malt, and prepared it, and had, for lack of hops, extracted from a root that grew plentifully around, a fine bitter, which rendered its flavor equal to that of the famous Burton-on-Trent. Filling their drinking-cups round, Roger drank the health of his guests; and, as the opportunity was favorable, Gervase, after a speech, told his friends of his intention to be married; and presenting to them his blushing betrothed, invited them to his nuptials. 
               "By all the beads in the liquor, Gervase," said the Yorkshireman, "but I am glad of it; and it is an example, that, please heaven, I mean to follow; for I left behind me on the banks of the Don, as pretty a creature as ever tripped through the dew, and who, I believe, loves me with all her heart, as I love her in turn; and so," said he, bowing to Maria, "I drink to your health and your happiness;" and the cups were drained. 
               "The fact is," said Gervase, "as I am about to go to England by the same good vessel that brought us over, I wish to know what commissions you want executed there, as I shall make it a point to attend to every item. To you, Roger Wattles, I shall bring your bride back, if you will trust me with a charge so delicate--" 
               "Aye, lad, that I will," returned the yeoman, with a brightening face, "and thank you too, for the offer; and for the other things, I will write them down." 
               "Do so," said Gervase. "And now, Mr. Smith, what can I bring for you?" 
               "Men, sir," returned the other, pompously; "men, tools, and machinery; and, by the time you come back, it will strike you that, even with the restricted resources left me, I will have put the finishing to the port that shall convert it into a city." 
               "I doubt neither your ability nor your perseverance," said Gervase; "and if you will follow our friend Roger's advice, and write me down your commission in detail, I will find room in the ship for all; and I have no fear but that between us three, we shall start a new era here." 
               "Excellently spoken!" shouted Smith, exultant. "I will follow your advice to a letter, and let you have the proper instructions." 
               "The next thing is, our realized total of 
                   
                     THE MEMBERS OF THE TONTINE. 
                  
                  
                   the tontine to be considered," said Gervase. 
               "Ah! the tontine!" and the speculator rubbed his hands. "It's no dream, then; and you say that it amounts to the absolutely stunning sum of two millions?" 
               "Every farthing of it," returned Gervase. 
               "You hear, Roger," cried Smith. "Two millions! My eye! what will they say in England, I wonder?" 
               Gervase then detailed to them his ideas about transferring the sum through the bank to England, for security and interest, adding, that the captain and Rufels had already agreed to that proposal, as being the most sensible thing that could be done; to which the yeoman and the speculator willingly agreed. 
               "And now," cried Roger Wattles, "that this business is settled, let me take you to look at my mill. I hope," he added, turning to Maria, "that you will not be too fatigued to go over it, for I assure you I am very proud of it." 
               "Even if I were, I would gladly undergo a little more to please you, for your perseverance merits every encouragement;" at which praise the burly settler felt not a little pleased. 
               "Rufels was here some days ago," observed he, casually, to Gervase; "and, in fact, so strongly advised me to take the mill, which had fallen into disuse, and showed me its advantages in so favorable a light, that I could not resist it. In fact, this neighborhood, so admirably adapted to the growing of corn-and this river, which is, in fact, the Yarra, affording plenty of water-power, and an easy conveyance-not to omit that our numbers are increasing here rapidly; and, as we shall have more here shortly, all these combined, render it a necessity." 
               "Rufels here," thought Gervase. "Where is it that this ubiquitous man, who proposes everything good, with motives that must look so sinister in the end-where is it that his influence does not extend to?" 
               "Well, what do you think of the plan?" asked Wattles, seeing that Gervase was pondering like one lost in thought. 
               "I think it an excellent one," replied Gervase, readily for whatever might have been Rufels' motive, the advantages were undeniable. 
               "I have not begun to work it yet; but it has been put in order," continued Roger, much gratified; "and," added he, "it will take but a trifle of time to set the great wheel in motion-and then, click-clack!-I shall be a jolly miller, after all!" 
               "And well you will become the character, my dear fellow," said Gervase, as he drew his friend a little to one side, to continue their discourse out of earshot. "I don't want either Maria or Smith to know what we know, yet," he said; "because it will only distress the one, and startle the other into an interference with my plans of watching this man thoroughly, as I have told you; but, knowing what you know, since chance cast you in my way on the night that the runaway seaman was murdered by Rufels, why do you trust in anything this man says? Do you not suspect him of some malicious motive?" 
               "Why, you see," returned Wattles, with grave deliberation, "men may lie in one thing, and tell truth in another; and when events don't appear to have any connection together, and no motive appears necessary to be served, it seems to me quite unnecessary to examine into his reasons: besides, his visit to me was many days ago-a month or more, and the one deed has no reference to his past visit; and this fellow was but a rascal, after all, as his attempted revelation, and his incoherent remarks about that pretty creature-bless her!-your wife that is to be, led me to infer. I confess that I was a good deal puzzled by them; and I think he must have deserved his fate." 
               "That's possible, Roger," replied Gervase; "but don't forget, my good friend, that it was not the business of Rufels to be his executioner, and I tell you that this man had not provoked him." 
               "But how do you know that?" persisted Roger. 
               "Ah, true!" said Gervase, who had his own reasons for not confiding too far in the ingenuous yeoman. "Well, after all, conjectures are merely a waste of time, and I will give mine up for the present, until I can arrive at certainties; and in the meantime we will go and see the mill, for I am anxious to know all your resources, and in what there is to trust for the proper enlargement of your sphere of influence and of labor." 
               Smith already, with the freedom and in the absence of all unnecessary modesty, was explaining to Maria matters connected with the establishment of Roger Wattles, of which he knew but little, and this did not prevent him from being all the more imaginative and discursive. He found names for strange plants and unknown flowers, led the way through the garden and farm-yard, and just as Roger and Gervase had concluded their short conference, the speculator was with the lady, advancing to the mill, which, in the landscape, was certainly a most striking object. Around them gambolled the delighted "Faithful," who was almost frantic with gladness whenever Maria bestowed a word of encouragement or a kindly pat on his wolf-like head. It was just then that the voice of Gervase was heard summoning them to stop, and he was seen hurrying forth from the forest-grounds, followed at a more grave and importantly slow pace, by the burly Roger himself. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE CATASTROPHE AT THE MILL. 
               HAD any members of the group (including one or two men that had followed), present in the mill, given attention to the uneasy running to and fro of Faithful on the platforms, as he ascended them after Smith, they would have suspected, from his whining and violent barking, that some danger was nigh. Too much wrapped up, however, in the beauty of the scene, none heeded him, not even Gervase, who was accustomed to pay much attention to the intelligent manner of his constant four-footed companion. 
               The cry, however, to which Gervase had given utterance, drew the attention of all present to the figure of Smith hurrying along the upper platform; and, with a thrill of awe pervading every breast, they in a moment beheld the frightful peril into which he had thoughtlessly rushed; but, in order to make it plainly comprehended, we must beg the reader to follow us through as concise a description as we can give. 
               From the main-floor, on which they stood, a broad platform, running across one-half the mill, (for the storing of sacks of corn and of other goods) was attained by a broad flight of rude stairs. This platform was on a level with the revolving centre of the great mill-wheel, which was only partially boarded and out of sight, and purposely left so for any repairs a sudden accident might necessitate. Above this, but on the opposite side, and attainable from the lower platform, and by a similar means, was erected another, which was carried over the wheel-that is to say, any one standing on its extreme would be above the whole of this stupendous mass, in entire safety; since, in revolving round, the great wheel was at least clear by a yard from the overhanging ledge that was thus, for some mechanical reason, carried over. 
               By shifting their position on the lower floor, they could follow Smith with the eye to the second landing, and it was just then as Gervase had done so, and beheld him heedlessly rushing to the extreme end-at that same instant his eye detected something that was wrong in the flooring, and the sudden suspicion, darting like lightning through his brain that it was insecure, made him give the shout of warning and of fear just mentioned. It was too late! The next moment a crash succeeded, and they beheld the apparition of the speculator's form breaking through the treacherous flooring, as he was precipitated into the wheel, or rather, upon its box-like paddles. The ponderous body, moving majestically round, carried him out of sight, but a cry of horror and of pain followed next, which died away discordantly upon the air, as though that almost Sabbath solitude, broken by an event that destroyed its sanctity, protested in the despairing wail of the victim against so appalling a violation. The face of the stout Roger had become like ashes, and his strong limbs trembled, while Maria hid her face in her hands, shuddering in the strong sickness of instantaneous horror. 
               "Stop the wheel, Roger, for God's sake!" shouted Gervase, springing up the staircase; "stop the wheel before it revolves!" and ere he had finished, he was already on the topmost platform gazing for the poor speculator, while Wattles rushed to the lever by which its force was governed, to obey the hurried command given him; but as it was the water had got the mastery, the wheel was at work, though slowly-another minute, perhaps, and it would be too late, for it would have been round; still Wattles struggled like a Titan-for the two men had gone out to see if they could render aid the better. 
               "Stop the wheel!" exclaimed Gervase, again. "I see him! he is holding on to the side;" and then shouting out encouragingly, he added, "stick to it, Smith, and then drop. Great God! he is falling inside it-he will be crushed. Hold fast, Roger!" 
               "I can't," returned the Yorkshireman, who was putting forth all the gigantic might he possessed in his stout person. "The wheel is mastering me;" and still he made most surprising efforts, but all to no purpose; water was gathering in the vast circumference, and a fellow-creature was perishing before the young man's eyes. 
               "Get a boat out into the 'wash,'" said he, "if you have one;" and, with a desperate resolution, but a firm footing, he stepped off the ledge on to the wheel, and down, with a circular sweep, he was already descending, as it had already carried the unfortunate man below, now entangled as he must have been in its paddles. 
               "By all the possums that ever was tree'd, he's on the wheel too!" shouted one of the men on the banks of the "wash;" and down to a certainty Gervase was coming, but looking sharply into the foam already churning beneath; for he, too, must now go beneath the wheel, he prepared himself for the perilous task. Already Smith, if freed, must be afloat in the "wash,," but also on the safe side. If there was but space, Gervase had no fear; and, with a murmured prayer, he surrendered himself to the consequences of his act, as no sorrow for rashness nor any endeavor could now be of any avail. 
                
               "Snakes and flames!" exclaimed a second individual on the bank, looking on paralyzed; "how quietly he takes it!" 
               To his dimay, just as he was plunging in, holding like steel with hands and feet, he heard Roger say within the mill, "I've stopped it," and with a jerk and a loud crack, the mighty axle became still, though a quiver ran through the whole frame as through the frame of some enormous animal beneath a shock of still mightier galvanism. 
               "Let it go round," screamed Gervase; and then he was silent out of sight. 
               "Let go-let it go round! he's gone under, and the other's afloat; but there's not a boat this side the sluice," shouted both the men in concert, looking out for a rope, or any spare planking to cast in to the gasping man. Wattles receiving the second command in such tones as indicated a peril with a chance of safety, once more set the wheel in motion. It seemed an age to the watchers before it heaved its disc upwards, what must it have been then to Gervase? who, dripping like a river god, but without a scratch, slowly rose with it, and when just above the surface, shaking away the water from his face and hair, he gave a spring from the wheel, and with a splash again plunged in, and began to swim stoutly in pursuit of Smith. In this he succeeded; for grappling with a motionless and flaccid body, he gave a shout, and began to make for the lower shore of the wash, which he was barely enabled to reach ere total unconsciousness followed and he knew no more. 
               Ready help, however, was at hand, for Wattles, sallying forth on one side, while the men hurried round to the other, was just in time to seize the submerged individuals, and at once conveyed them in-doors, without knowing at the moment whether they were living or dead. Maria at the same time, too, appeared to recover her energies when they were most needed and likely to be in the greatest demand, and with a self-possession that surprised the yeoman, though he was pleased and relieved at the same time, she began to make preparations for giving what aid she could. By the aid of the helpers, the two were quickly undressed and put to bed; and it was found that while Gervase was only in a state of partially suspended animation, some hideous bruises upon the speculator's chest, together with a broken arm, spoke of worse injuries, if he were not beyond the reach of help. 
               In about an hour, by the aid of an inward application of brandy and water, Gervase had all but recovered. Smith's arm was tenderly bound up in rude splinters, and the dislocation of the arm reduced, but he was pale, very weak, and frightened beyond measure; for his tremendous flight had affected his reason for a time, and every now and then he babbled incoherently. For the whole of the day, both were left to rest as they best could, one or the other taking it upon them to watch in turn. 
               In the meantime, while Maria, after having made and prepared whatever was ready for her patients, (the Yorkshireman's female attendants paying her the most assiduous respect and obedience,) and then had sought the fragrant chamber allotted to her, Wattles himself went into the mill, and carefully examined the place through which the ardent speculator had fallen. The examination was long, slow perhaps, but thorough, though he could get but few of the fragments of the broken floor together. Either this was not satisfactory to him, or else his conclusions were vague; for when it was ended, he shook his head, left all remaining as he found them, and carefully locking up the mill, and placing the key in his pocket, he spent the rest of the afternoon about the farm, occasionally dropping in to see how the patients were, evidently big with something that he had to say, but which he resolutely kept within himself till he met Gervase the next morning at the bountifully-supplied breakfast-table. 
               "Well," he exclaimed, holding out his broad hand, with an air of the most frank and hearty nature, "and how are you this morning? Not much the worse for your ducking, I hope?" 
               "No," replied Gervase, looking the other fixedly in the face a moment. "So you knew nothing about this, then, Roger, eh?" he continued. 
               "Of what?" demanded Wattles, somewhat surprised. 
               "Of Smith's fall-of the affair altogether," was the reply. 
               "Of Smith's fall?" echoed the other, "I fancy I know that he fell, worse luck for him, poor fellow, for I'd almost rather have hurt myself; but that's all I know about it. Why do you ask?" 
               "Ah! I thought so," observed Gervase, as they took chairs at the table. "But," continued he, "from what you say, do you think there might be something more in it than met the eye?" 
               "I went and examined the spot," returned the other, "and all I could make out was, that a piece of the platform must have given way." 
               "You didn't go and manufacture an old trap-door-or rather so fix it that a man might put his foot upon it without knowing, and go through at once-eh, Roger, my old fellow, did you? You didn't calculate upon a daring bit of pantomime that might reduce the claimants of the tontine by one more-did you?" 
               "No," said Roger bluntly; "I'll be hanged ed if I did; and what put that in your head, I should like to know;" and Roger, leaning his head on the table and his chin on his hand, gazed with all his soul at his companion's face. 
               "Because that's how it's been done, that's all; and the only fear is, that it may be only too successful,-but we must hope for the best." 
               The yeoman stared like one stupefied, but comprehended nothing; and Gervase saw he must be more explicit in order to be understood. 
               "Sit down, Roger," said Gervase calmly, "and we'll talk it over. Cut me some ham and a piece of bread. So! eggs I see! Very good." 
               "A kangaroo steak, too," said Roger, more at home, and pointing to a smoking dish of tempting odor. 
               "A pint of coffee. Now listen," added Gervase, hurriedly going on with his meal, as if short of time. 
               "I will; but, first, how is the poor fellow?" said Roger. 
               "Better; but his arm is badly broken-still, he's in no danger, and you must nurse him here a bit--" 
               "And welcome," said the other blithely: "I'll cook him up as if he were my own son, the little harum-scarum; and I hope that he will take no serious hurt-though it was enough to addle his brains, and it still puzzles me how the thing was managed," said Roger. 
               "Do you know the man?" said Gervase, gravely,-"do you the man that might-I always thought-could have saved Plaistow, and didn't, when he fell off the raft-that is, if he wasn't pushed off?" 
               "The German! Rufels!" exclaimed Wattles, in amazement. 
               "Do you happen to know who drove the knife into the seaman?" said Gervase, in the same collected voice. 
               "The German! the devil! what does all this mean?" cried the other, while the perspiration gathered on his forehead, and the fork on which a piece of meat was stuck, fell on the floor. 
               "Can't you guess the man that laid a trap for you-or for me-for Smith-risking, in fact, the life of any one who might happen by accident to tread on the same spot, little thinking that murder had calculated this fearful spot to work its wicked deeds in? Can you name him, Roger?" 
               "Zounds, man! don't speak so in riddles," cried the other, in an excited manner. "You don't, you can't mean that this man could be such a fiend?" 
               "But I do mean it though, Roger," was the measured reply. "And I shall go presently and examine for myself, to make myself certain that he and no other did it. It does not signify that I can't prove it; and perhaps I shall not attempt doing so. It will only resolve me in my line of conduct, and one day I'll have him trapped." 
               "But what on earth," cried the unsuspicious man, "could be his reason for such conduct? what motive had he in so diabolical a procedure?" 
               "And so you can't even guess?" asked Gervase. 
               "Not for the life and soul of me," was the reply. 
               "Then it shows that you are a very honest blockhead, my dear Roger; but I, who (having had reasons, and very satisfactory ones too) have had my eyes opened-I'll show you his reasons in a moment." 
               "Go on," said Roger, breathlessly; "I am listening." 
               "You know that there are six of us in the tontine?" 
               "Yes, certainly," answered Wattles; "and a pretty thing we are likely to make of it," he added dolorously. 
               "So it seems for somebody at least. Well, two millions of money at one single fall is enough for almost any man's hopes, don't you think so?" 
               "It would be quite enough for me if my ambition were ten times as great as it is," returned the yeoman. "But still I can't say, that I perceive even now what you are driving at." 
               "Patience a moment, my friend," said Gervase, smiling at the ingenuous York-shireman. "How many of us are to share in this money?" he continued. 
               "It all goes to one in a lump," answered the other. 
               "And if five out of the six are-out of the way-let me call it by so mild a term, how many will there be left then?" pursued Gervase. 
               "One," replied Roger, as a startling light broke in upon him. 
               "Very well," said Gervase calmly, rising from the table. "I do not think I need say any more for your further enlightenment!" and he gave him a questioning look. 
               "Not another word-not a syllable." And Roger as he spoke rose also, but pale as a sheet. "Do you know," said he, "that I do not think I am afraid, at a pinch, of a couple of stout rascals at any time, and under any condition except in the dark; but this fellow frightens me." 
               "Because he kills in the dark, that is, mysteriously. But," said Gervase sternly, "we'll have no more of this; and now let me go and see what I can make of the-accident-myself." And, as Wattles was giving him the key, Maria, who had slept but little from her anxiety during the whole night, entered the room. 
               "I am so glad, so very glad to see that you are not hurt-are well," she said hurriedly, as she took the hand which Gervase fondly extended to her. "I hope," she added, bending her humid eyes anxiously unto his face, "that you have not suffered much from that dreadful-that appalling occurrence?" 
               "Assure yourself, Maria," he returned in a low fond tone, "that I feel nothing of it; for I did not hurt myself, and was too well nursed to take any cold, thanks to the precautions of our host and kind nurses." 
               Having received a reply which set her fears as to Smith's safety at rest for the time, Gervase, leaving her with the Yorkshireman's housekeeper (with strict injunctions from the latter to make a good breakfast and to spare nothing on the table), led the way into the mill, and mounting to the platform, the youth convinced himself that a quick wit, fertile in the concocting of schemes, must have suggested the stratagem; for the German, (having observed the trap-door in the platform, during the time Wattles had left him to look about) it must have caught his eye; and, acting upon the fiendish suggestion, he had wrenched it from its place, kicked away the ledges below, and fastened it again with a small wedge or two, so that it looked quite firm to the eye, but also in such a manner that at the slightest pressure it would give way beneath any one unlucky enough to tread upon it. Every thing had been done with a recklessness of consequences and an audacity almost unparalleled, and, as a matter of course, the infamous scheme had succeeded just exactly as we have detailed it. 
               "It is as I have thought," said Gervase to Roger when his search was ended. "And now you had better, and very cautiously too, have every place thoroughly examined, for there is no knowing what pitfalls have been planned for you." 
               "I will do so," was the answer as they once more quitted the mill which was again fastened and locked up, till the owner himself could find time to superintend a more thorough examination, and have the damage repaired. "I will do so," said Roger between his teeth; "and curse him, I should like to do something else, too." 
               "What is that?" asked Gervase quietly. 
               "If he comes this way again," returned the excited Roger, "by heaven! he shall know it to his cost; for I shall be tempted to salute him with a shot; and if he brews more mischief after, I shall have lost my skill-that's all." 
               "When you come up to Melbourne," returned Gervase, "we'll prepare a shot for him which shall not fail; and remember, on the third day from this, I shall expect to meet you at the hotel." 
               "Very good," replied the other; "I shall be there; never fear." 
               Once more entering the house, Gervase intimated to Maria that it was time they were on their way back, lest their absence should create unnecessary alarm, or cause some remarks not altogether agreeable to be heard. While she retired to don her riding-habit, and Roger saw the horses were being saddled, Gervase betook himself to poor Smith's room to see how he was, and receive any communication he might have to send to his foreman and his people whom he left busily at work. 
               Still very pale but suffering little pain, Gervase found that the greatest source of anxiety to the ardent speculator was, his being laid by the heels at the very time his presence was of so much importance elsewhere. This feverish light-headedness consequent on his aquatic plunge, was dissipated: and our hero promising that every thing should be carefully looked to, provided that he would endeavor to compose himself, and submit to the nursing necessary for his convalescence, tended in a great measure to reconcile him to what could not be helped. On the accident itself Gervase dwelt no farther than to reply to a question or two; but on its suspected causes he was totally silent. Having thus convinced him that he was in the best possible hands, and on the assurance that his interests should in no wise suffer, Smith permitted Gervase to leave him (after having dressed the arm with much care and no little skill) on tolerably easy terms with himself. In a few minutes after, Gervase and Maria had taken leave of Roger, and were scouring across the country at a rate which speedily diminished the distance yet remaining between them and their place of destination. 
               During a pause which occurred as their horses walked up the declivity, Gervase confided to Maria this new atrocity on the part of Rufels; and so overcome was she by the intelligence, that she stopped her horse, and gazing in blank dismay and horror upon her informant, for a time could find no words to speak her dread. 
               "This man," she murmured, "will have every life that is in his path." 
               "He will not have mine, nor yours either, my sweet Maria," said Gervase, with an assuring smile, as he took her bridle and led her horse gently on. "Now, trust me, the worst is gone by--" 
               "And the captain under his care," said Maria almost mechanically, like one uttering the words of a dream. 
               "Insensate and fool that I was!" exclaimed Gervase, with a sudden start and shudder. "I never dreamed of that;-but no-he is watched, he will not dare-it cannot be, and yet--" 
               "He has dared every thing," she returned with the sadness of despair. "I thought that I should have smiled again, and been free; but he will strike me-you-all of us, and leave no track behind." 
               "I am forewarned and forearmed by what I know already; but in God's name let us hasten, for I shall not rest till I have seen the good old captain; and if harm be done--" 
               The dark scowl which came on his brow, and the fierce clutch which he made towards the butt of his pistol, showed that he was roused to a pitch which would have rendered it perilous for Rufels to have crossed his path then. On the excitement of the moment his mood seemed to have communicated itself to the horses, for they sprung forward, scouring the plain as if they had been true desert-born. 
               Once more the pall of fear and horror was descending on Maria. She had again been cast down from her pedestal of hope, and only saw, in cowering, or muffled, the form of Rufels, with his malignant face indicating unseen, dark but sudden and appalling deaths. Now it was herself-and she cared for that least-who bled beneath the assassin's knife. Then it was Gervase; and in the broad day she could have shrieked, so actively did her mind depict the horrors that she created. Anon she heard the whisper of the "master of her fate," in her ears, and that whisper was more terrible than death. What could she do? Neither speak, nor act, nor think, unless to grow mad upon her thoughts. Still on-on, like the wind, went their steeds homeward. 
               On their way, though smarting with impatience, yet as it took but little time, Gervase drew up at the place he had seen Smith and his men busily engaged in building, and asking for the foreman, gave him to understand that his master had met with an accident that would detain him for a week or more from home; and adding to this the instructions he had been charged with, to which the man promised obedience, they both rode off once more, and ere long were clattering through the streets of Melbourne, and soon arrived at the hotel. 
               No sooner there, than hastily bidding Maria seek refreshment and rest, and charging her to quiet her mind until his return, he reentered the town, jumped into a boat, and soon found himself alongside the Lively Sally, whose decks were full of animation and bustle, where he found Jackson and the mate, all well, the captain much better, and Rufels himself as inscrutable as ever, quietly perusing a book by the cabin window, and who received Gervase with the same calmness that any indifferent or uninterested person might. Their salutations were of the briefest, and the most cursory observer would never have imagined that between these two men there was a strife for life and death, subtle and energetic, merciless and unprocrastinating, in which one or both must yield. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE MARRIAGE. 
               IT must not be denied, that Gervase did not quail for an instant before this impregnable man, for to have thought so would be to have attributed to him a more than human power. It was however a relief to him when the bluff voice of the captain, who was sitting up, but still being nursed, assured him of returning health and strength. Nay, so excellent were the symptoms, that he could have been on deck or gone ashore, only that Rufels insisted that he should not move for the next day or two. Gervase saw that, for the present, the German had not as yet begun to circumvent the life and safety of Captain Leechline. But from a knowledge of the man's nature and purpose, he saw it deferred for a reason only, and it was this reason that Gervase dreaded most, but most desired to know. It was under such conditions that Rufels was most dangerous. 
               "If you are likely to remain on board for a few hours," said the German to Gervase, "I shall go on shore for a short time, having some few things to look to; but I should also desire to leave some one in charge I could trust." 
               Gervase smiled at his anxiety, but promised to wait until the other came back; and Rufels prepared to leave in a shore-boat at once. 
               "Good-bye, then," said Rufels, approaching the captain; "I shan't be long-so take care of yourself, and-remember!" and he pointed to a bottle of medicine on the table, which seemed to be placed in readiness for the patient. 
               "I will," returned the captain, with a nod, short, but expressive, and the latter was left alone with the young supercargo. 
               The conversation that ensued had no particular relevance to the interests bound up in our story; but during it, Gervase had the opportunity of discovering that the captain had not been medicinally tampered with-the simplest of doses, by the preparatory skill of the doctor, having been given-and deciding to relieve the old seaman of all risk for the future, as also from the presence of the individual he most dreaded, he thought it best to send ashore for a medical man, who, if his skill were less, might be trusted to, unless Rufels (which was not impossible) could gain him into his pay. Thinking thus, half listening-talking in an absent manner -he was at last aware of a singular embarrassment in the captain's manner, betokening the possession of a secret he undoubtedly desired to be rid of. 
               "Gervase, my boy," said he. 
               "Well, captain," answered Gervase, encouragingly, "what is it? Can I be of any service to you? Don't hesitate to name it, and ask." 
               "Why, that isn't it," said the other. "I'm thinking what the deuce you'll think of me, when I tell you and-"here he hesitated. "Yet I musn't, curse it! Gervase, my lad," pursued the captain, in a low whisper, "this German is a clever doctor, I dare say, but a queer fish. D--n me! I think he wants to turn the ship into a pirate, and make a buccaneer of me-to give my owners the slip-I hardly know what, and only wonder that I didn't order him ashore when he hinted at the chances there were for men who had broken owners and seized the vessels for their own." 
               "Did he tell you to be secret on this head, too?" asked Gervase, who saw another phase of the insatiable and limitless designs and plots this busy intriguer was everlastingly framing in his busy brain. 
               "As the grave, and you may guess how I have kept it;" and the captain gave a knowing wink. 
               "So, when he said to you, 'Remember!' he did not mean to refer to the bottle, but to his caution?" The captain nodded assent, and Gervase went on, "Seem, then, to assent to all he desires. Say nothing to contradict him, and let him be as explicit as he please. It can do no harm, and I can then see how far he means to carry on, though the utility of the project to him must in the main be useless." 
               "Why so?" demanded Captain Leech-line. 
               "You'll be rid of him in a few days entirely, will you not?" 
               "Rid of him!" shouted the captain. "Why he's settled on going to England with me, and says you'll stay behind. Rid of him!" groaned the captain; "I only wish I was-that's the devil of it." 
               "Does he say so?" ejaculated the youth. "Aha! I think I see a move in all this. Well, captain, I recommend you to be quite at your ease, and to trust entirely to me." 
               "To you, who are going to remain? Nonsense!" was the comment. 
               "I don't know, nor do you; therefore, I say, trust me. Rufels may only jest; but, whether or no, it will be as well to be sure that he is not in earnest. In fact, we must be as mysterious as himself, and expect the worst, in order to make sure of the best." 
               "Douse my top-lights!" swore the captain, "if this be not a pretty fellow to have trusted my life with. However, he's done his duty there, I think, only I'm puzzled to make out his motive--" 
               "Well, it's not so difficult as you imagine," returned Gervase; "but we'll not talk about that now, as it will only worry and harass you; and, after all, the whole may be a joke." 
               "I don't know; but, however, it'll be a pretty joke to propose to Bob Jackson and old Roundabout. I think, Gervase," suggested the captain, "that it would not be a bad plan to refuse to take him on board, eh? What think you of that?" 
               "I think, on the contrary," returned the other, "that it would be a very bad plan, since it might make him revengeful and plot mischief underhand; and I want to keep him in my eye-" 
               "Well, let it be as you think proper," said old Leechline, resignedly. "I submit, but I'll take no more of his advice or hints." 
               What further was said, will transpire in due time; but the conversation was carried on by the aid of Roundabout and Jackson, who came below, till the time was expired, that Rufels would be away. In effect, punctual to his word, for which he was remarkable, he came alongside as Gervase appeared on deck, about to go ashore in turn. 
               "So," said Rufels to Gervase, without moving a muscle, "poor Smith, I have just been told by Maria, met with a dreadful accident, that may cost him his life. Was it so very dangerous?-was his life uncertain?-how provoking! and you were very brave, too. Ah, my God! it is very astonishing that such things will happen;" and he shrugged up his shoulders with a commiserating air; "and the man was really so rash?" 
               "It was extraordinary," returned Gervase, looking him full in the face; "for, having examined the trap and its securities, but for one thing, it was an accident that looked like a design skilfully planned." 
               Rufels' face was white. "What can you mean by one thing?" 
               "The stupidity that did not calculate upon more than one," returned Gervase. "I could never think Wattles guilty of such a plan," he resumed; "he is too stupid," and Gervase laughed. "If I had done it, I would not have left a chance of escape." 
               "Then Smith is not dangerously hurt?" exclaimed Rufels, with suspicious quickness, and in a tone of disappointment. 
               "No, I-I think not," returned Gervase, with a singular emphasis, that redoubled the attention of the other. "He was nearly, if he has not or does not ultimately, made one the less in the tontine." 
               "Bah!" said Rufels, turning on his heel. "The idea of a tumble through a rotten old floor into an overshot water-wheel, to be associated sociated with so gigantic a puerility! Master Gervase, take care that your imagination does not lead you into a fool's dreamland, and-but, good-bye-the boat waits. By-the-bye, the third day from this, is your wedding-day." 
               "It is; don't fail to come, and let the captain go on shore with you; and my friends--" 
               "Be assured that I for one will not fail," said Rufels, with an emphasis that was almost fierce; "and if there be a bottle of old wine to be had in the hotel, the grape of which has grown and ripened for the vintage under a German sun, I'll pledge to you both;" and he dived into the cabin, leaving Gervase to get into the boat. 
               "He'll pledge to us both," murmured Gervase, as he was being rowed away from the vessel, and the mast "stepped" for the sail; "he will pledge us both! It will be that of the devil when he sees a human soul about to plunge into the pit, and I must pull his life upon my head. Ah!" he ejaculated, "if I think much longer, I shall be in a pretty state to see and console Maria, who, I make no doubt, wants it, as this fellow must have probed her to the quick, to get his information from her; and, knowing my suspicions of him, I can guess her condition. Would I could dive into that hideous secret which weighs upon her like a nightmare, and I will some day, at any cost; meantime--" but here, as his fancies were just as unreal as irrelevant, we will leave him to pursue their train. 
               The preparations for the marriage morning had been going on for some days with all the alacrity that could be commanded, and the morning finally dawned. Roger Wattles was punctual, and the news that he brought of Smith was of a "neither better nor worse" kind, but which, for all that, inclined rather to the former than the latter. Roundabout, with a halo of incipient "groggy" glory about his great red face, which seemed to have been steamed over the punch bowl by anticipation. Bob Jackson was there, all envy of Gervase, and all admiration of the superb Maria, who never looked lovelier. The captain was there also, a little pale and weak by the force of the fever, but rapidly recovering, (the vessel being left in charge of one of the petty officers); and, finally, Rufels was there, gay, laughing, and even jovial, for his saturnine nature; but his gayety was full of bitterness, his laughter was sarcastic, and his joviality was of a mocking character. He sustained his character to the last, and Gervase saw that this man loved Maria, with a strength and intensity all the greater that he had failed in winning her love in return; and that his debt of hate, and his intention to do mischief, were just in a proportionate ratio. Gervase, who saw and knew all this, took as little note of it as though the man had been as frank as the Yorkshireman, or as the honest captain himself, who, seeing Maria arrayed in her bridal-dress, could not prevent himself from expressing an admiration highly treasonable to Mrs. Captain Leechline, snugly and cozily at home in Bristol. The wedding breakfast was, after enormous exertions on the male side, completed; for Maria (who had won upon the landlady of the hotel by her manners, her acquirements-music and French, in which the latter was a most ambitious smatterer, and in a thousand other things, which make up a sum so greatly envied by those who do not possess but know their use,) breakfasted with the good lady of the house, whose influence procured her very charming young bridesmaids; and, after a little longer delay, the whole party went to church. 
               The ceremony was completed. "For better or for worse," Gervase Murray had pledged himself to Maria, and they were now man and wife till death should part them; for circumstances that occur to mar the happiness of wedded life, only sunder-never part. The tie is not to be destroyed any more than the existence of a China vase is to be annihilated by its destruction. And once more, all returned to the hotel, where, the women having departed, the eating and the drinking, and the dissipation, then grew fast and furious-Rufels being strangely foremost, and the Captain last of all, which, with Roundabout, advanced the German much in his favor, the same distance which Captain Leechline's abstinence lost ground. 
               Before the afternoon was passed, according to pre-concerted arrangement, Gervase and his wife quitted their friends to spend a week in the peaceful solitude of Roger Wattles' inviting home, where everything that could conduce to their comfort was awaiting them. 
               The captain left early to go on board the vessel; to which, in the critical state of his health, no possible objection could be made. Roger Wattles, who had a head of whinstone when he put out his strength, and Roundabout, who had met with his match, encouraged by Rufels (on whom Roger looked shyly till the punch and the wine mollified him,) drank like fishes to the health of bride and bridegroom. As for Bob, he got immensely sentimental, mourned his lost love, vilified Gervase as a deceiver, and was finally borne off somnolent by the waiters, leaving the others to finish out the evening as they best liked. Rufels, in one of his fierce, wild, and demoniac toasts, declaring that "this event was the finest achievement of Gervase's life, and the soul and heart's-blood of the tontine;" whereat Roger grimly hinted that "the less said on the tontine the better;" and the first mate, to soften the sharpness apparently arising, proposed another bowl in perspective, which smoothed away all difficulties once more. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               PLOT AND COUNTER-PLOT.-FOR ENGLAND, HO! 
               A FORTNIGHT elapsed, Gervase and his wife had returned to Melbourne, the ship was ready for sea, but Captain Leechline was not able to command her, for to the surprise and anxiety of all, a day or two after the wedding-feast he was prostrated by sickness of a still more severe and apparently malignant character than ever. Again the German was sent for, who this time took up his abode in the ship to the perfect content of all, the captain even appearing to be more attached to him than ever. 
               The transfer of the tontine had been made through the bank too, and in the proper names of the survivors, among which was that of Smith, who to the chagrin of Rufels was not yet dead, but might be-an event he doubtless fervently wished for. 
               The last batch of the ship's cargo was stowed away, provisions all on board, the hatches battened down, the sails bent, and falling from the yards, waiting only to trip the anchor and "sheet home" everything, when a tide or two before it was decided the Lively Sally would sail, Gervase came on board, and to his horror saw the captain's danger, but also saw that Rufels, by his peculiar means and power, had obtained an absurd ascendency over him; which was the more fatal, as in addition to his power, the poor captain's disorder had become a sort of imbecility-a lunacy-the leading features of which were a querulous dependence upon Rufels. He was entreating the German not to leave him as Gervase entered the cabin, and with a pitiable drivel, with eyes expressive of a broken and exhausted nature, with a tongue partially paralyzed, with an aspect that was altogether shocking to behold-the once lion-hearted and independent man was whining like a child to "his best, his only friend," not to quit him a moment. 
               "Why, good God, Captain!" said Gervase, advancing with a suddenness that made the startled German, (who had not expected him so unannounced) shrink away, "don't you remember Gervase-me, whom you have called your friend, and to whom you have been both a father and a friend?-have you forgotten me?" 
               "No-no; but where is he gone?" and the captain looked entreatingly round for the German, who came forward. 
               Gervase who, during his absence, had imagined the captain had not only fully recovered, but that he was the last man in the world likely to be again imposed upon by any specious pretences, shuddered involuntarily at the sight of this debasing instance of human weakness, and shrunk with an increased horror from this incarnate fiend. 
               "Do not be agitated, I beg of you," said Rufels, soothingly, to his victim. "You see," turning to Gervase, "how you agitate him!" 
               "From which you hint to me that I had better leave him with you," said Gervase, with bitterness, "but in the first place I must know how all this came about. It has an air far too suspicious to be passed over, and a man whom even fever and disease could not convert into such a wreck, must have been tampered with, and that too most foully, before he could have been rendered the object he is. Look at him, man, and deny it if you can!" 
               "Your words imply suspicion of me which is unworthy," was the quiet reply, but in a tone of submission that staggered Gervase. 
               "It is, I doubt not, somewhat stronger than suspicion," said the other, sternly. "And it is my intention to compel an inquiry into this matter, and to have it conducted by the legal authorities." 
               "Be it as you please," the German returned. "Will you do me the favor to tell me what you suspect-to question me, and I will answer, to satisfy yourself in every possible mode--" 
               Startled at this openness, Gervase, after a pause said, "The suspicions are what I have stated. The captain has been rendered ill by foul means--" 
               "I do not understand you," said Rufels. 
               "There are some medicines that are calculated to cure as well as to destroy, are there not?" asked Gervase. 
               "That is to say, there are opposites in nature and in everything," assented Rufels. "What do you gain by the admission?" 
               "That for designs of your own you have assisted the attack upon the poor captain, if you have not actually caused it. Look at him, and deny it if you can;" for Captain Leechline had fallen into a lethargy, and lay back in his cot with his eyes closed, unconscious of all that passed around him. 
               "I look upon him, but I admit nothing. You had better give him that restorative-it's very harmless;" and Rufels drank some liquid from the cup. "See-it does not harm me;" and he drank of it, and then tendered the cup, which was rejected with an imperious gesture. 
               "Here, Rufels," said Gervase, gloomily "the tontine is going on admirably-of that you must now be very certain." 
               "What do you mean?" asked the other, placing the cup down again. 
               "Have you not heard of poor Smith's death?" pursued Gervase. 
               "No! Is it so?-really so? Poor fellow!" and a malicious gleam flashed in the eyes of the German, while with a shrug of pity he seemed to commiserate the fate of his former companion. 
               "And the captain seems following him fast," added Gervase; "though for the present I decline to administer your dose to him; nature may be a better physician at this moment, I hope." 
               "Ah, but do you infer anything from this condition which an unforeseen paralysis brought on, occasioned by an excess in drinking your health, and that of your fair bride, who I hope is well?" 
               "I infer that you are a very unlucky man to your friends-that you are like fate, which a man ought to avoid. I think that what good you create, is overbalanced by the evils of strangely correlative-accidents!" and Gervase spoke with a meaning not to be mistaken. 
               The German laughed. "You are fanciful," said he; "you have an active imagination, and mine is slow enough as not to be able to follow;" and a sneer almost of contempt curled his marked features. 
               "I could almost fancy myself ill of a deadly draught already," said Gervase, impressively. "I could almost fancy that I had taken it from your hands-I could almost fancy that there was poison in the air," and Gervase paused. 
               This time the collected Rufels was shaken. His face grew suddenly pale, and his frame trembled as his tongue faltered out the words, "Poisoned! Do you mean to accuse me of such an act?" 
               "Yes," replied Gervase, very deliberately, "I do." 
               "Look you, Mr. Murray," said Rufels, with astonishing composure; "that you are a whimsical young man, I make no doubt; that you are insolent to me, at times, is but too evident, and I am not the man to submit to it. Do you desire to quarrel with me?" 
               "Quarrel with you, felon that you are!" exclaimed Gervase, with scorn. "No; but I mean to stop you in your career, lest I should become as guilty as yourself--" 
               "Felon!-guilty!" ejaculated Rufels, standing back a pace or two, so as to know whether his danger was real, or whether Gervase was merely endeavoring to bluster him into a confession or a surprise. 
               "You will hardly be the one left to enjoy the tontine, Herr Rufels, clever as you are," continued Gervase, with a bitter smile. "From this moment you are checked. Do you begin to comprehend me?" 
               "I think I do," said the German, half-crouching like a tiger about to make a spring. "I think I do-but neither perhaps will you." And with a bound such as few men could have made, he sprang upon the young man, dagger in hand, and, with such an energy of ferocious intent gleaming in his eyes as seemed to emit itself by a magnetic warning, which Gervase promptly seized, for he sprung aside, but not so quickly as to avoid the blade entirely, which wounded him in the shoulder. 
               Releasing the broken weapon, Rufels grappled him by the throat, and, but for one or two stupefying blows that Gervase dealt with considerable skill and effect, the half-maniacal man would probably have strangled him, in his ungovernable strength. Help was at hand, however; for Bob Jackson, seemingly on the watch, rushed in, attended by a master-at-arms, or some petty officer equivalent to him, and the German was speedily overpowered, and, in a moment or two, his hands were securely shackled. He was then removed into an inner cabin, and locked in. 
               The first thing that Gervase did, was to have every bottle and packet of medicine, in a solid or liquid form, that he could find, gathered carefully together, and put in a parcel, in order, if possible, to arrive at a knowledge of their qualities on shore. The next, at whatever hazard, was to give the captain a few drops from the cup, which, since Rufels had tasted of it, Gervase had no fear of. Its effects were instantaneous Bidding Bob attend to the captain, and to reply evasively to any questions the latter might put regarding the German, Gervase, with his parcel, made all possible haste ashore, and, bending his way to the shop of an operative chemist, very soon discovered, to his horror, that there were, among poisons of the most subtle and deadly quality, some that would slowly undermine and shake the whole foundation of the system, defying the most skillful attempts made to discover their nature and effect; while others again would kill instantaneously, without, by taste or smell, giving to the uninitiated the slightest warning as to their fatal powers and insidious kind. 
               Seeing at a single glance, mentally speaking, that this man had the intention (and was carrying it out in a most unceremonious and unhesitating manner) of killing off, one by one, those who had joined in the terrible tontine with him, Gervase scarcely knew what to do. His first determination, however, in engaging a surgeon for the vessel on her homeward passage, was to find a man to whom he could confide as many particulars of the captain's case as would lay to the side of accident what was done by design, and informing a very intelligent man (desirous of returning to England), that an inadvertence had introduced poison into the captain's system, such re-agents were to be used as would meet the danger in time. Having, therefore, arranged this, and sent him on board, Gervase returned to the hotel in time for dinner, and then told his wife of his intention of going back to England-a decision she received with a satisfaction and willingness, that pleased him all the more that it was unexpected. 
               When, however, he confided to her the diabolic train of deeds which Rufels had so remorselessly carried on, her fears increased in proportion; but she also agreed with him that it was better, under every circumstance, not to give the German up to the authorities, but to hold over him such menace as might leave him in the full consciousness of the danger hanging over his head, by placing a watch over him, and giving him to know that such suspicion justified the surveillance that at any moment would extend to him the iron grasp of the law. 
               Gervase then returned to the vessel, and found that the surgeon had administered emetics and necessary medicines, that were supposed to be most effective; but the condition of the unfortunate sailor was so dangerous, that the young man began to entertain the most lively fears on his behalf, and his indignation against Rufels was aroused afresh, and he thought it would be necessary to let justice take its course, unless a speedy alteration for the better took place. Debating, therefore, what was best to be done, he concluded by insisting that the infernal skill which had brought about this prostration, should be used in preventing the further ravages of the lethal drugs administered. 
               On entering the cabin, where the German had been kept in durance, Gervase was shocked at the change that had come over him. His face, so horribly pallid, expressed every evil passion; but strong as his baffled malignity was, theprevailing sentiment was that of fear, and from this Gervase hoped for the best. Rufels, on seeing him enter, lifted up his face with a dull and defying look, which speedily sunk beneath the firm, accusing glance of Gervase. 
               "Monster that you are," exclaimed the latter,-"deaf in your perversity to every better feeling, and madly waging a war with your own self-interest, you are standing as nigh to your own peril as ever evil creature in this world could. The captain is even now hovering on the verge of death, and it is you who must restore him and convert his symptoms into others more hopeful, or woe-woe be to you!" 
               "What would you have me do?" exclaimed Rufels, hoarsely. 
               "The same hand that wrought the evil, must amend it," was the answer; "or you will have but a short shrift of it." 
               "Ah!' snarled the other; "baffled and beaten, foiled and thwarted thus! Why had I not foreseen all this before?" 
               "If your sorrow takes only this form," said Gervase, sternly, "you will swing for it, like a dog as you are-rabid and dangerous to all." 
               "What can I do, then?" retorted the other. 
               "Listen!" said Gervase: "for four days you shall be in durance-you shall remain bound, gagged, fettered, if need be, on board, and only have the vessel for a felon's cell, unless you obey my conditions. On the other hand, you may yet escape the penalties your own guilt have pulled upon your head, but you must sufficiently obey me in all I stipulate for." 
               "Speak!" said the other, eagerly. "You have me in your power, I see; and, for once more, you are my master." 
               "Counteract all these symptoms-remove that paralysis-or teach me how to apply that which will have the effect of doing so. I will have his life, or yours; that is, if harm happen to him, your own death will follow, as sure as the sun is in the heavens. If you can undo as rapidly as you have done, it will be well for you. Do you hear me? Do this, and in four days, as the ship sails away, you shall go hence free." 
               "Free!" and a wild light flashed in his eager eyes. 
               "Yes, free. But, my friend, don't make a false calculation on that head. I am as clever, as skillful as you. You are known, you will be watched; you will-if you play any trick with our friends ashore-weave a rope for your neck, perhaps; for I have drawn up an attestation of murder--" 
               "Murder!" and profound indeed was the surprise of the accused as he repeated the word. 
               "Of the seaman in the crags-out beyond the city, yonder," said Gervase, indicating with his hand the distinct locality. 
               "Malediction!" muttered Rufels, gnawing his lips; "you know that too?" 
               "And in presence of a witness his dying declaration was made. Yes, I saw the blow struck. Are you satisfied. Do you see a glimpse of my power now?" and Gervase paused as though to give a stronger emphasis to the dangerous knowledge he possessed. 
               "I do. If I did not hate you for marring all my plans, I should admire you," said Rufels, thoroughly humbled. 
               "Be it so, and it will be still the better, if what you can do be done quickly. Four days are all that can be allowed you. If," continued Gervase, "Captain Leechline be not so much better that his recovery may be counted upon, you will go to sea with us--" 
               "With us!" echoed Rufels, with a start "You return, then-and--" 
               "Yes-I-my wife, too," and the same calm, piercing glance was again bent upon his face. 
               "I can do it; for these symptoms are apparent only, and not real," said Rufels, with readiness. "And you have suspected more than really had happened--" 
               "May I believe you?" asked Gervase. "Is hope conflicting with suspicion still?" 
               "You may. I swear to you-and this," returned the German, "I will soon prove." 
               "What was your object, then, in all this scheme?" asked Gervase. 
               "To reduce him to total subjection upon me. To make him mentally and physically dependent upon my will and power; to possess his and his ship. There, have you heard enough?" 
               "Enough! follow me, and re-commence your work," continued Gervase, "and I will keep my conditions with you. If you think me generous, so much the better for you too; if not, you will be indeed bold to defy or to refuse--" 
               "Lead on. You will find me obedient," said Rufels, and Gervase released him from his bonds, and led him into the captain's cot. 
               The four days elapsed. The German had kept his word. And as by a miracle the captain had overcome his attack, and he was now placed entirely under the new surgeon's care, with an approved confidence that justified Rufels' pledge and his own treatment; and, on this head, Gervase had no further dread. 
               Smith, he heard, was growing gradually better. Roger Wattles, who brought him the news, took a friendly leave of him and Maria, with a promise to look sharply after the German. Finally, on the morning of the fifth day, the head of the Lively Sally was directed to sea, and, at the same moment, the sails began to fill, and the brave vessel herself heaved majestically to the first strain upon her canvas; Gervase accompanied the German to the side of the vessel, and saw him, without a word, descend into a shore-boat. 
               "We shall meet again," said the German, "and, till then, don't forget me. We shall meet, trust me, and then--"a smile of peculiar meaning followed this implied threat; and presently, as Gervase only returned this adieu with one of contempt mingled with pity, the boat put off, the last farewell received by Rufels being the furious barking of Faithful. 
               Ere night, the shores of Australia were dim to the eye, and the next morning there was only the ocean to be seen heaving around them. All on board were gay, blithesome, and hopeful; and, with a favoring wind, she proceeded on her voyage. 
               Weeks grew to months, and the Lively Sally arrived safe and sound, with but little damage to captain, passengers, men, and crew; for, in effect, the former had fully recovered his health, and was prepared to go forth a second time, like a man who had (to use a common phrase) "taken a fresh lease of life." Bob Jackson renewed his attentions to Gervase's sister, while Roundabout, as before, enjoyed his ease, his can, and his pipe ashore, carousing with his mates. It is not necessary to dwell long upon this interim of our story, further than to add that Maria, as the wife of Gervase, met with a warm welcome from all his relatives; for while he was much beloved by all, her charms and attractions were most powerful advocates in her favor; and, established in a home of her own, with Gervase himself at the head of a lucrative and easy mercantile business that had been in the family for a century, time passed lightly and happily. The second mate's wedding with "Fan," after a certain period had elapsed, being the next event of any importance, while his elevation to the command of another of the Bristol merchant's vessels, added a dignity combined with profit to his position-and our friend Bob was likely to be a happy and successful man. 
               Gervase did not sail the second voyage by the Lively Sally to Australia, as Maria earnestly entreated him not to do so, owing to some vague dread of her own; but he shipped on board such commissions, in addition to the ample cargo already stowed away, as his friends had desired him to forward, with a variety of other things that would be useful and ornamental; machinery for Wattles' mill; tools, &c., for the speculator, in such abundant quantity as was likely to last for a generation; nothing was omitted that the kindness of Maria herself, and the forethought of Gervase, dictated. 
               Nor did he forget his promise made to Wattles respecting the latter's pretty betrothed on the banks of the "Don," for he went with Maria to fetch her, and brought her away from her relations, nothing loth. While her own outfit was befitting the bride of a thriving yeoman, and of one who was becoming a man of importance among strangers, our friends added everything they could think of-even a piano-for the wild Australian home, on which she could play with very fair skill. Placing her under the care of the worthy Captain Leechline, from whom she was certain of meeting every parental care and attention, his character was a guarantee for. The presence of several passengers on this voyage would also enliven its tedium; and, with mutual good wishes, the Lively Sally and her people again quitted Bristol, leaving Gervase to pursue his avocations, and to the enjoyment of his home. 
               It is necessary to add here, also, that with respect to the family, relations, or antecedents of Maria herself, the most singular reserve was held both by her and her husband; and Gervase having peremptorily hinted that any curiosity on that head would be displeasing to him, the gossiping soon became silent, and the judicious allowed it to drop away, until finally, a matter generally so important to uncles, aunts, &c., quietly died off, and Mrs. Maria Murray became looked on as the leader of fashion and of taste in Bristol, and as identified with the family of the old city's first merchants. 
               Now, although her maiden name was Westmore, and although Westmore was the name of an aged relative already mentioned in an earlier chapter of our story, it is requisite to state here, that if there existed any confidence (or rather, any revelation) between Maria and Gervase on this point, it was totally confined to themselves; but as it never formed a subject of conversation with them, we will suppose that they also, for mutual reasons-he, not to remind her of past pain and agony-permitted bygones to be bygones, and the past to be buried in oblivion. Evidently they were not the less happy for this good understanding. 
               These things we have stated, in order to remind the reader that there was a relationship between the Westmores and Gervase's family; and, in bearing this in mind, we will prepare him for the catastrophe to which we are introducing him, without any unnecessary delay, and which was the grand, converging, culminating point to which all the incidents of our tale, from first to last, tended, and in which all completed themselves. 
               The merchantman sailed to her old destination, and landed passengers and cargo safely, and in the best condition. Roger Wattles-broader, more jovial, more at ease than ever, and a highly successful man-was there to receive his blushing young bride. Smith, being already married to a wealthy irascible widow, and flourishing with an almost tropical growth in every branch of his fortune, was there also; and the nuptials of the Yorkshireman and his pretty English bride were celebrated with all the honors and rejoicings the ceremony demanded. Once again the Lively Sally returned to Bristol, and brought to Gervase the following scanty tidings relative to Rufels, then an active and vigilant foe:- 
               For a long time past (the letter which came to Gervase gave him to understand) nothing had been heard of the German; but Wattles, on one occasion, beheld him, grim, wild, haggard, and, like a human soul on fire with crime and strong drink, holding a half-demoniac revel with some of the most notoriously bad characters of Port Philip, like one who towered above them in wickedness, who awed them by his courage and desperation, and who seemed to hold a sway over them by the intense ferocity and thoroughness of his nature. It so happened, too, that Rufels saw him, and, with some muttered words spoken in his own tongue, which honest Roger could not understand, made him fancy, by the bitter grin of hate on his fierce and bearded face, and by the shaking of the clenched hand, that he was threatening him with a vengeance to come soon or late-"for which," the writer added. "I did not care a button, though, if he have got the cut-throats (and a worse-looking lot of hang-dogs I never saw) under control, they will do any mischief he feels inclined to put them up to." 
               Roger therefore warned Smith of him, fortified his own possessions with arms, men, ammunition, lest these desperadoes might take it into their heads to molest them: hitherto, however, he had seen nothing more of him, and sincerely hoped that he might not. 
               On a later occasion, however, being at Melbourne on business, a strange rumor was afloat of a number of men, led by a German, who had gone together in a body by a coasting vessel for Carpentara, intending to proceed inland to some far central mountain in search of gold and gems, of which fabulous stories were told. No doubt, therefore, but that Rufels, smarting under the disappointment of every scheme he had formed, being rendered valueless by its iniquity, intended to try his fortune with others in that marvellous storehouse, the perils of which they had before avoided through a providential chance only. 
               And the letter concluded with expressions of cordial esteem for all at "home," (as Roger called England,) spoke of increasing prosperity and happiness, and, on the whole, gave to Gervase much to think about and ponder on. The fate of this man, with such gifts, talents, and varied knowledge, so utterly wasted and thrown away, filled him with a profound melancholy. When Gervase communicated its contents, together with his own thoughts, to his wife, they both, on the recollection of his singularly large range of acquirement, could not help grieving at the perversity, and the adverse circumstances, that must make such wreck of every excellent thing in man; and Gervase thought that had he known Rufels years ago, it was possible he might have diverted his energies into a better channel. 
               It was an English wintry night, when hail, snow, and storm were mingling together gether over the good city of Bristol, heralding in the holy Christmas time, and sounding with a wild and prolonged cadence across the Avon, whose towering sides reverberated the huge diapason of the tempest, and flung it across the roaring and tumultuous river in shrieking gusts, that died, and rose, and wailed among the leafless trees of the overhanging Leigh woods. It was a night of terror and wreck on the ocean, and Gervase at home by hearth and fire snugly ensconced, thought of mariners drowning and ships tossing about, and pitied them with all his soul; for he had not himself escaped wreck and tempest, and was grateful to heaven for its providence. 
               Then looking round his room with its elegant furniture, costly pictures, and rich collection of books, thinking a moment of friends who loved him, of men who respected him, of his competence and position-had he not, in the pauses of the storm, cause to think himself a most fortunate man? When he thought of the lovely wife he adored, of the noble creature who loved him, and who gave him the sweet promise of ere long becoming a mother to a darling child that might climb up on his knee, and call him by the sweet name of "father,"-his cup of joy seemed full to the brim, and he was happy, supremely so. 
               Maria had gone to rest, but two of the domestics sat up-one his confidential manservant-the rest being in their beds. On his table stood a decanter of generous wine, and some fruits, and close to his hand a volume of poetry that he had been reading; for the time, the place, the suggestive moans of wind and water sweeping beneath the steeps of Clifton, were admirably suited to the perusal of that weird work, the "Ancient Mariner" of Coleridge. To look upon him, a handsome young man, not yet arrived at his prime even, his well-set limbs, clothed in a loose dressing-gown, and reclining in his large easy-chair,-a more perfect picture of ease and independence allied with intelligence, one could hardly have desired to see. 
               He had lost himself in reverie at last, as the sounds without rose and fell like great organ tones, booming and thundering, and wailing every alternate moment-and thinking, as men in reverie do, of near and distant, of dissimilar and distracting things by turns, he possibly would have fallen into a doze, had not a ringing at the outer bell startled him, followed in a moment or two after by the entrance of the servant, who told him that a stranger stood without in the hall, desiring to speak with him alone, and on very particular business. 
               "Who is it, Thomas?" demanded Gervase, turning half round. 
               "I do not know the gentleman, sir," was the answer; "but here is his card," at the same time handing one. 
               Gervase took it up and read the name of "Martin Westmore" upon the card, with a thrill that partook as much of surprise as of terror. What could it mean? 
               Was he going, then, to meet for the first time some near relative of his wife's? Was he going to know (for he did not know, at least, not all) her previous history? Was he about to have the revelation made which he had so longed for, and yet had forborne to urge? Was he--But why waste time in this labyrinth of thought, from which nothing could come but further doubt and more perplexity? 
               "Show him in," said he; and the servant withdrew, but presently ushered in a person who had just left his cloak in the passage, dressed in plain costume,-frock-coat, and dark pantaloons. His stature was of the middle size, the frame athletic. The face was pale, perfectly shaven; the mouth firm, but soft, too, in its pleasing smile. The eyes that could flash, were somewhat sunken; and the cheeks hollowed as by excesses rather than by age, and the thin, black hair was plentifully sprinkled with gray. The face was that of an entire stranger; and, as he approached with a bow, and the composed mien and bearing of a gentleman who thoroughly understands the usages of society, Gervase rose and said: "Take a chair, sir, I pray you, and draw nearer the fire. I fear you must be wet--" 
               "I thank you-no;" was the placid answer. "I had a coach and my cloak." 
               It so happened that as the stranger entered, Faithful, (for whom the attachment of Gervase had only increased by time,) who was slumbering uneasily upon the rug, snugly stretched before the blazing fire, dreaming of some chase probably in his own native wilds by his sharp or suppressed bark and occasional whine,-woke up in the bustle, and all at once began to utter those low, deep, angry growls which dogs do when seriously angry and intent on mischief. His keen, white fangs were seen glistening between his black lips, and his brown, wolf-like hair stood erect upon his curved back. The eyes were lighted up with a true canine rage; and as the stranger approached to take a chair at the host's bidding, the dog was just on the point of flying at him, when Gervase sternly bade him be still, and acting upon a second thought, turned the dog out of the room, apologizing to his unexpected stranger guest for the unusual rudeness of the generally quiet animal. 
               "Pray, do not mention it; a faithful animal must easily receive pardon for any exhibition of zeal, on the score of services and attachment," said the other in reply. 
               Gervase half started at the sound of the 
                   
                     RESCUE OF SMITH. 
                  
                  
                   word "faithful," but saw in it only a coincidence quite accidental-the dog's name and the propriety of the expression could possibly be no more; and motioning the stranger to an arm-chair, which the servant had placed at the side of the fire, he resumed his own at the other side of the table, saying, "Pray, sit down, Mr. Westmore," giving a glance at the card, and another at the countenance of his visitor. "I am anxious to know the purport of your visit." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               A PROPOSITION 
               THE storm raved loudly, the fire burned brightly, the lamps cast a clear gleam throughout the pleasant chamber, the comfortable air which the whole wore, the contrast between warmth and luxury within, as compared with the cold and wet without, increased the sense of enjoyment which made itself so palpable. 
               The two men sat almost vis-a-vis with each other, and for a moment or two, the eyes of each were bent on the respective features which from the want of recognition on their separate parts, indicated that they might meet probably for the first time. 
               "My business with you," began the guest, breaking the silence, and speaking in a gentle and collected tone, "has reference to events long ago passed over, in which you are closely interested, but of which I take it you are wholly unacquainted." 
               "Indeed!" said Gervase: "it may possibly be as you say; but in that case you will pardon me if I express a surprise that I can be ignorant of matters that it would seem I ought to be acquainted with: and, in that case, I must admit that my curiosity is vividly aroused, and I am not only prepared, but anxious to hear, what this extraordinary communication can be." 
               "I will not detain you long," responded the other; "and, though I may seem to approach the pith of the matter in a somewhat roundabout manner, it is because I have a motive in it; and must first assure myself that you will be disposed to treat with me fairly, since it is, after all, your advantage that is in view; and that I may not betray myself to the rejection of a proposition which might be injurious to me." 
               "If there is no dishonor or unfairness in your proposition," answered Gervase, coldly, "you have nothing to fear on that head; and I assure you, that I am as anxious about my own interest as any man can be." 
               "That is frankly said;" and the stranger rubbed his hands as his sallow face lighted up. "I need scarcely ask you, therefore, are you ambitious?" and he paused, leaning forward, with one hand on his knee, like a man that had an important stake in the reply he was awaiting. 
               "Ambitious!" exclaimed Gervase, startled, while a flush crossed his fine features. "But-pardon me," he added, pushing a glass and the decanter towards the stranger, "allow me to offer you a glass of wine" 
               "Thank you," returned the other hastily, "but--" 
               "If you prefer aught else--"began Gervase. 
               "Brandy-pale brandy," said the other a little eagerly. "I dread these heady wines; bad custom, you know--" 
               Before he had finished speaking, Gervase in his hasty hospitality had rung the bell, and his servant receiving his master's orders, placed on the table a bottle of brandy, with all the requisites for the manufacture of punch, which leaves nothing but the brewing; and again left together, as Martin Westmore manufactured his glass in proportions that spoke for the strength of his head, and little for the safety of the bottle, he drank, and said, "And now your answer-are you ambitious? because if you are, it is in my power to fulfil your wildest views." 
               "Before answering," said Gervase, "it would be necessary to define to me the nature of the ambition you imply; for men have so many forms of this passion, that what one craves another despises." 
               "I mean," interposed the other, "to ask you if you are ambitious for rank, position, a title, and wealth?" and as the rapid answer was given by the stranger, he drank deeply from his potent, but richly odorous liquor, and paused for a reply. 
               "I am rich," returned Gervase somewhat proudly; "and my wealth is in a fair way to increase; but rank-a title--really," and Gervase laughed, "you must pardon me if I see here so little probability of this coming to pass, that, whatever my desires may be, common sense, and the utter impossibility of such an event coming to pass, would bid me treat the idea with ridicule." 
               "And you would do wrong," was the grave reply. "Are there not many things as strange in the life of every man? In fact, if rumor lies not, it is said that in your experience things of so singular a character have occurred that, but for the undeniable fact, they might be set down for the dreams of a madman." 
               Gervase followed every word uttered with an eager intensity, while he kept his eyes fastened upon the expressive countenance of the speaker, like one dreamily reading there a half familiar memory. 
               "True," said he, rousing from a reverie, as the other finished; "true! Very strange things have occurred to me, but they might happen in the chapter of accidents which men meet, who seek for advancement from adventure and change." 
               "Why then should you imagine," asked the other, "that this very thing I propose as a reality should not also be one of those chapters where accident brings you to what you have not thought of seeking?" 
               "Titles and rank are not things of every day occurrence in England, where they are regarded with so absurd a veneration," replied Gervase; "and for that reason I am still inclined to smile at the very improbable probability you count upon." 
               "And yet I can put an earldom in your hands," replied the stranger, with an emphasis of truth and a force of conviction that filled Gervase with momentary astonishment. 
               He thought of the fantastic and boundless aspirations of Rufels on a former day, who, by daring and intelligence seemed fitted to reduce the wildest fancies into cold and measured facts. He had laughed at the idea of the central sea and its treasures, and yet both turned out to be true. Why not this, therefore, unless it was in person some fantastic dreamer of less ability than the German, who in his aberrations might take the insane inspiration as a conviction, and give it what force of truth he could-a dupe to himself while duping others. 
               Gervase examined the cold and passionless face before him, but there was only on the calm and cloudless, though strong-lined forehead, and in the steady eyes, the same placid air which always rests upon the brows and in the eyes of men accustomed to reason coldly and to act with method. Evidently this man believed what he said, and Gervase felt it. 
               "At least such appears to be your impression," Gervase said at last; "but how are you to convince me that I am, like one sitting here, awaiting that which he believes destiny is weaving for him-I who have not sought honor or rank?" 
               "Because you deemed them out of your reach," said the other. 
               "Precisely so," assented Gervase; and then he listened intently. 
               "The path of ambition," said the stranger, his sombre eyes lighting up, "is not always a straight one. The man who would climb that devious and crooked way, must sacrifice every thing for the end he aims at. Power holds petty the honesties of life. An ambitious man must sacrifice principle, honor, and even life, to attain his end--" 
               "From which I infer," said Gervase, taking advantage of a slight hesitation in the stranger's speech, the result of a design to see how Gervase himself felt under these insinuations,-"from which I infer that such a change must take place in me; that I must be bold, unscrupulous, and conscienceless, if I would possess myself of the apocryphal advantage you hint at?" 
               "You have spoken it," was the emphatic reply; "but I wish you to assure yourself that there is nothing apocryphal in the matter. It depends upon you to become an earl, to take possession of a title, and to claim as your property vast estates, which are encumbered, I must add, but which to you would be a greater incitement to apply skill and talent to clear off, and enjoy, as sole master, a domain equal to a principality." 
               "It is a splendid dream," said Gervase, smiling, though he drew his breath eagerly, like one that suppressed a delirious flash of delight; "and if it is only a dream, it might be enjoyed Alnashaz like, only there is an impossibility in the way of its realization." 
               "Ah!" exclaimed the other, with a shade of disappointment crossing his brow, "doubt and fear always stand in the timid man's way. "Have you ever heard of one man personating another?" asked the man, gravely, as he sipped his wine, while the tempest gathered itself for a fresh outbreak without. 
               "Yes," was the cold answer. 
               "Do you fear to do so?" 
               Gervase started. His cheeks became reddened with an indignant hue, and his pulses throbbed angrily; but for reasons of his own, he repressed the rising fit, and said, "Mr. Westmore, I fear to undo what I have legitimately done, and--" 
               "But," said the stranger, "what can your remark have to do with this business?" 
               "I have heard of men writing another man's name, and they call it forgery," pursued Gervase, quietly, and leaning back in his chair, to observe the effect of this observation on his strange visitor, who began to interest him despite of himself. 
               "Well!" ejaculated Westmore, "what then?" 
               "To personate another man, to take his title, and so on, would not that be felony?" asked Gervase. "I need not task your intelligence to follow me to that conclusion." 
               "And what of it?" said the other, with provoking calmness. "To gain much, men must dare much. Nothing in this world is gained without a great stake. I should add, too, there is no shame in aught but failure; there is no guilt only in being found out. Can your intelligence, in turn, follow me to that conclusion?" 
               "In truth," replied Gervase, curtly, "you can scarcely see, yourself, what it is you propose to me." 
               The stranger laughed-and contempt for the straight morality of Gervase was mingled with it, which jarred on the merchant's nerves most unpleasantly. 
               "Mr. Westmore-Mr. Martin Westmore," said Gervase, slowly, "you are the propagandist of very lax doctrines; I must say, that if I did not think the whole a pleasant but unseasonable jest, I should at once end the conference." 
               "Are you really startled, then?" exclaimed the visitor, in a tone of surprise. "Your servant, sir. I thought you knew well enough the trickery and chicanery of the world too well to show yourself astonished at what is done in every phase of life." 
               "Explain yourself," said Gervase, with an air of cordiality which was as much intended to give the other confidence and ease, as to place himself, in the fullest sense, master of the apparently absurd secret he was to be master of. "Explain yourself, and, in the meantime, re-fill your glass as I do mine, and speak out with a frankness, that, whether I act upon or not, shall not in any form approach you in consequences." 
               "Of that I have no fear." returned his visitor, with great confidence, "inasmuch as in betraying me, you would betray yourself--" 
               "Betray myself!" exclaimed Gervase, with a start of anger, while the other coolly brewed his punch and sipped it. "What do you mean by that?" 
               "Have I not told you that it interests you alone-that already your name is implicated in it." 
               "The deuce!" muttered Gervase; "is it possible that I am to be the inheritor of an earldom without my knowing it?" and he laughed as a man laughs when chuckling alone over a thought which has just struck him, and from which he builds an immediate castle in the air, and fills it with a gorgeous emptiness. 
               "But, you were speaking of society as-as-well, let us say, for example-as being composed of knaves and speculating dishonesty, holding spurious position by dint of boldness and cunning." 
               "Society," said Westmore, "is a mass of trickery and fraud. Like Gambling, the boldest player oftens wins-the timid, never." 
               "But does not often lose," said Gervase, parenthetically. 
               "What the devil does it matter if it does not win?" said the other, petulantly. "The game of life is a series of rubbers; he who goes in for most, wins what places him beyond the reach of worldly cares. Trader or merchant, huckster or millionaire, diplomatist or minister, lawyer and legalist, all play their cards for the highest. If these were stopped by scruples, there would be a jog-trot world of it---" and Westmore drained his glass. 
               "Supposing this to be admitted," said Gervase, "I must confess that I have not the courage necessary to carry it out; and to revert-as you have said that I have a right to the heritage you dimly hint at, but of which I am totally ignorant-I should like to hear you enter into a further explanation of the subject." 
               The other laughed. "It is amusing too; for at least a month you have been enjoying both title and revenue-at least I have for you, having constituted myself your steward---" 
               Gervase started from his chair, indignant. 
               "You, sir! How could you dare to use my name in an usurpation that I could never possibly sanction?" 
               "Sit down and be patient," was the quiet rejoinder. "I thought so; and determined to be your friend in despite of yourself. The French have a proverb, which means, that 'it is but the first step that is difficult, and I have taken the first step for you. It remains for you to confirm yourself what I have represented myself to be for you. And, egad! all things considered, I have not done it badly!" 
               Gervase was a man possessing a consummate command over himself; but this announcement fairly placed him beside himself, and the silent fury which he churned within his breast at the audacious compromise of his own good name, was likely to break forth in a manner by no means conducive to his guest's safety. An after-thought, however, this. He knew that whatever had taken place, whether it arose in his visitor's fancy, or whether it was fact, he could not be held accountable, and could easily exculpate himself. Deciding to see, to the very uttermost, the contingencies of this unsolicited agent in his favor, he calmed himself, and said, certainly with an effort, "I ought, I dare say, to be much obliged to you, but I assure you, at this moment I feel that if you have not perilled me, you have yourself---" 
               "Not unless you betray me," was the response. "And that you promised me you would not;" an addition that only confounded Gervase the more, as in a fashion he had already done so. 
               "The fact is, Mr. Westmore," said he, "that you are speaking in ignorance of the whole matter you have arranged so cleverly. In England, property is so entailed, that no mortgage, no pledge, no debt, no condition that is possible on the continent, can take away the estate of a line of ancestry. Nothing is lost: the title is not transferred-that falls back to the crown-and however mortgaged, they can be relieved. It is the system of the Jewish jubilee, when, in a certain time, all demands fail." 
               "Supposing that I know all this," was the quiet reply; "still you have what I tell you, if you have the spirit to grasp it, and, with a bold front, hold your own." 
                
               "Well, then, you only puzzle me more and more," said Gervase, flinging himself back in his chair. "And if you have taken the last step, it only remains for you to show me on what grounds of right---" 
               "Right!" And the visitor laughed like a man who did not bother his brains with any minor details of right or wrong. 
               "Well then, of-chance-or daring scheme-what you will," said Gervase, desperately. "Let me know how I, in such a shameful state of ignorance, stand in the eyes of the world?" 
               "You stand before the world as the earl of Brent-the last of your race-who, after a licentious career, having burdened your estates with debt, by a lucky chance, (which it would amuse the world to discover, while you laugh at the trouble they take) are about to redeem the whole property in a short period of time, and-to be happy in your possessions all your life, as the story says, for--" here the stranger seemed to hesitate a moment. "You are wedded, are you not?" 
               "I am," was the curt answer; "and to a woman who could play the countess to perfection." 
               "Better than ever;" and the stranger slapped his thigh. "The whole is ready to hand, cut and dry, and nothing remains to be done but to take possession--" 
               "Pardon me," interrupted Gervase, with profound gravity; "something still remains, which I fear you have forgotten." 
               "What's that!" demanded the other, surprised by the manner and the tone. "I thought (and he pondered a moment) that I had not omitted aught; that every thing had been foreseen." 
               "Your own reward for the trouble you must have taken in the matter," said Gervase, ironically. 
               "Oh, as to that," was the reply in quite a serious manner, "I expect it; yes, you can hardly do less, and I leave it to your own sense of justice-for instance--" 
               "Well," Gervase said with a laugh-"for instance, how could I adequately repay you for your risk and trouble?" 
               "Why, as I should be necessary to you-as you would be unable to get on without me-I should be contented to be your secretary-steward-counsellor-friend, in fact, and to be well paid." 
               "As a matter of course;" and in the cheerful mockery of his voice, which was fast converting the scene into one of badinage, but which, much to the surprise of Gervase, the other seemed to persist in accepting as genuine, and in conducting himself in the most seriously earnest manner. "As a matter of course," said Gervase, "you could not expect less, unless, indeed, you expected more;" and he laid an emphasis on the word. 
               "As much more as you like," was the indifferent reply; "but," added he, "do you mean anything particular, this moment?" 
               "Yes, I mean to ask you, Mr. Westmore, who, by your name appear to be a distant relative of mine, though hitherto I am still left much in the dark-" 
               "Oh, all in good time," responded the other readily; "we'll come to that presently. Bless you, I have not half done yet. But, you were saying-" 
               "I was asking, how do you suppose all this will end?" and Gervase reclined back in his chair as if he had made a query which it would be difficult to reply to, but the other was not to be so easily daunted. 
               "End? Why successfully," he replied. "You will be an earl-your wife a countess-I, an envied steward, your right-hand man, your factotum, whatever you please, and everything will go as merrily as any marriage-bell." 
               "You don't see the Old Bailey, Newgate, and the hulks in the distance, do you by any chance?" 
               "No, I am not a fool, or a coward; and unless you, Mr. Murray, do, I repeat that I do not;" and he in turn leaned back in his chair with an air of absolute enjoyment. 
               "By heaven!" said Gervase, "you puzzle me more and more, I know not whether this is jest or earnest, after all." 
               "Earnest! I assure you I was never more so," said Westmore. 
               "Well, then, I require more explanations. How am I to be an earl?" 
               Westmore took up a cigar from the table, saying, "If you have no objection-" 
               "No," said Gervase, taking up another; "During a conversation like this, one ought to converse at one's ease. Your glass is empty, pray fill it," and he replenished his own. "It is an admirable night for such an indulgence," he continued; and both lighted the fragrant leaf of the tropics. 
               "And now I'll astonish you by a stroke of genius," said Westmore, sending forth a thin curl of smoke from between his lips, while Gervase, his impatience increased, and his curiosity whetted, was all attention to his extraordinary interlocutor. 
               "Mr. Westmore, a relative of your mother," commenced Westmore. 
               "Yes, yes;" and Gervase impatiently tapped the table. 
               "Was a rich, eccentric, retired man-" 
               "Yes; precisely. Something of this I have heard. My wife-"Gervase was impetuously proceeding to say, when he suddenly stopped. 
               "Your wife!" exclaimed the other eagerly. "What of her?" 
                
               "Her name is Westmore," said Gervase. 
               "I know it," said Mr. Westmore, coldly. "That's no news to me." 
               "And yours?" asked Gervase curiously. 
               "Is what you please, but neither Westmore nor the Earl of Brent, though I have been known for some time by the former, and within a very few days by the latter title; for I lost no time, I assure you, in taking up the vacant dignity." 
               Gervase drew back. "I'll tell you what," said he; "this will be a matter for the Bow-street runners, or I am mistaken." 
               "Bah!" and the lips of the other curled in disdain. "I thought," said he, "you had more boldness in your composition, than to be forever harping on that one unmusical note, which would be the death-blow to any one of the many successful-" 
               "Knaveries," suggested Gervase bitterly. 
               "Call it by what name you please," cried the other with an impatient indifference of restraint that promised finally to render him as open to him as though he were virtue itself incarnate. "Call it what you please; the definition is nothing, the consequence the ultimate, the bold stroke played for, is all the same in the eyes of a thorough man of the world." 
               "Proceed," said Gervase, "and if possible, I promise not to interrupt you again till you have ended." 
               "It matters very little," was the rejoinder; "for to collected men, interruptions are only the commas and pauses which give emphasis, and sometimes, elucidate more in conversation than a straightforward monotony; and I pledge you my word that, whether I am interrupted or no, I shall not lose the thread of my discourse." 
               True to his word, however, Gervase did not speak a word. Perhaps there was nothing to cavil at, and something to agree with. He nodded his head, as if to assent to a self-evident proposition, and the other went on, without interruption. 
               "Sucking the life and blood-that is to say, the gold, the ground, the trees, house, home, every thing-from every client that came within the path of this insatiable old leech, this old Westmore became in Lincoln's Inn, one of the most matchless and wealthy legal usurers which that thriving locality could exhibit as a specimen of cent per cent usury. To him came the thriftless, the prodigal, and the roue, all of whom he was ready to assist whenever he could get ample security, as he took especial good care to look after his own con-sid-er-a-tion." 
               "He was a lawyer, then?" said Gervase. 
               "And therein lay the secret of his power," responded the other. "He was, and a keen one. Few escaped from the den of fire without a scorching. Well, to him among the rest came the young, noble, handsome Earl of Brent. He was one of those dear creatures on whom danseuses and cantatrices gazed with delight and loved with ardor-while he could present them with costly jewelry, rich presents, and gorgeous equipages-and he was no niggard, by all accounts. The men about town haunted him, as parasites infest a victim. He was led to clubs, 'hells,' and to every place where the downward career of a man is accelerated. From this old Westmore, time after time, he borrowed vast sums of money, and into his hands he surrendered, time after time, every scrap of land, timber, house and estate that he possessed." 
               "And what finally became of him?" demanded Gervase, with more interest than he had yet exhibited; for the probability that the tale was true increased every minute, and as the man unfolded gradually every step of the infatuated youth's career, the more did the likelihood of the whole strike Gervase with its consistency in reference to the every day occurrence of fashionable extravagance. 
               "He-died!" answered Westmore, abruptly. "Some of these days you may know how; since another exists who has not only a knowledge of the latter fact, but had a personal interest in it." 
               "And who was that other?" demanded Gervase, while a transient gleam of uneasy suspicion floated through his mind, which for the instant sank his soul into an almost despairing gloom. It seemed to mingle with some calamity, that if he was not cognizant of, or implicated in, he would be; and the vast grasp of an unavoidable destiny seemed to menace him in his whole future, with that which was too terrible to give form to And, despite his hardihood, he quailed.-"Then this old Westmore used his power at last?" he said, with an effort of returning courage; for he could not permit his manhood to be cowed by an agent such as sat before him, however much he might have to do with his fate. 
               "No," replied the other. "He permitted his power to lie in abeyance, and time passed on. The earl was supposed to be in his grave, and his singular absence caused much discussion, but nothing satisfactory occurred; since to have proved the death, would have been to defeat the old man's claims, by the very thing you mentioned some time ago-the law of entail; and the next heir, distant enough so far as I know, sought high and low without effect, and the noble estates were allowed to run wild and neglected, till the whole was a widerness of weeds and desolation, and the halls of the Earl of Brent were crumbling to decay." 
               "Under what circumstances then did you become possessed of this information, and of the means you appear to hold of guiding this intricate business to the end?" 
               "That," said the stranger visitor, "is my secret at present, though I may possibly share it with you; but I must first know how you are disposed to seize the advantage offered." 
               "Then old Westmore died?" observed Gervase, evading a direct reply to the insidious question, put with so much tact and appositeness. 
               "He died," was the somewhat gloomy reply. 
               "Were you by him when he died?" asked Gervase. 
               "I was," answered his guest, beginning to smoke his half-extinguished cigar, furiously. 
               "Under what circumstances did he die, then?" asked Gervase. "Pray, do not reserve any thing, since you have been so frank hitherto." 
               "That, too, is a matter of too much significance to be too plain upon as yet. I have no particular reason to play any mysterious part in the business," continued the spokesman, applying himself to his tumbler; "but it is fit that confidence should be met with confidence, and while there is danger in the way, it is only to those who are destitute of courage, not to men who have a prize to fight for." 
               Gervase thought of the story that Maria, in a moment of agony, had told of the old man who once befriended her in the south of England. His thoughts darted quickly to her mention of Rufels, as presenting himself at a time when there was a series of circumstances converging together, with a menace of doom such as meets the ears of seamen, when the threat of the tempest is filling the air before the winds waken up the seas, and mingle terror and confusion, wreck and death together. 
               "Is not the end of this all over yet?" said Gervase to himself. "Is Maria still to be haunted by phantoms which she has not evoked? I must stand between her and this lowering future at any cost-at any hazard; for here is evidently a man who has calculated as certainly as his knowledge is great: and though I cannot believe all he says, I must give credit enough to the undeniable facts which he relates. But as for my part to play, if there were not real mischief in it, I should laugh at his rhapsody; but-humph!" and with this abrupt cessation to his thoughts Gervase drank his wine, and smoked his cigar, and there was a pause between them, during which they looked into the fire, and listened to the roaring of the storm. 
               "What a night!" said the stranger, shrugging his shoulders and draining his glass.-"What a night for travelling, and I am going to London in an hour." This information made Gervase start again. "I have now gone as far as is necessary, I think, continued Westmore; "and the remainder lies for you to decide both for me and for yourself. Do you not think so?" 
               "Not quite," said Gervase. "For a moment let us revert. You say that old Westmore became possessed of the property of the Earl of Brent, who, by not releasing his deeds of mortgage, has forfeited them. Did you not?" 
               The other nodded assent. 
               "Westmore is dead," continued Gervase, "and let us suppose that he left you the executor of his will-" 
               "Just so;" with the same affirmative bend of the head. 
               "Well, then, it seems you have gone a little farther. You have put the power into force, and taken possession---" 
               "For you," said the stranger, with unmistakable emphasis. 
               "To facilitate the conversation," said Gervase, "let us say for me. But you have taken upon you the title. You personate another man-" 
               "And," said the other, with a coolness which Gervase could not but admire, and which he knew but one man to possess, "and which I am quite ready to surrender and make over to you; for, to be candid, though your name is not in the old man's will,-so much in reference to you as constitutes you his heir, lies within it." 
               "Why, then," said Gervase, more and more astonished, "you have even personated me!" 
               "Exactly," nodded the guest. "I never go half way in matters of importance; and for a man who brings you news that you are the inheritor of vast wealth, you do not seem to receive me with the ready acquiescence men generally show under circumstances which call for so much gratulation." 
               "Men," said Gervase, "don't generally receive such inheritances under such conditions." 
               "Come, your answer," said the other, rising; "time flies, and I must speedily on my way to the metropolis, where I have pressing matters to attend to, which require my presence there without the delay of a single hour more." 
               "Going, going to London to-night!" exclaimed Gervase, surprised as much at the restless energy his informant displayed, as at the temerity that could tempt a man to journey in such weather. 
               "To-night-at once; and the coach I ordered to stop for me at the door, if not washed away by the rain, will take me to the station, where-"and he looked at the shaded time-piece on the table-"I shall be there in twenty minutes, or, half an hour at the farthest-and have barely ten minutes to spare you. What do you say?" 
               "What do you think I ought to say?" asked Gervase, who, if the truth must be told, felt himself considerably embarrassed by his position as he then stood. If he entertained so wild a plan as to join the stranger in the daringly nefarious scheme he had proposed, there was nothing in the world to prevent his being seized as the principal and the accessory of a gross and impudent fraud which nothing could prevent from being made public sooner or later, from the fact that he was too well known by many, to support a false character like that of the Earl of Brent for any period: and next, if he permitted this man (an acknowledged knave, by his own confession) to leave him, he was conniving at the enlargement of one whom he ought rather place in the custody of justice without delay. What ought he to do? He had already promised him an amnesty, or rather had promised not to betray him, and therefore he repeated his question, as if out of the reply he would elicit something to help him in his dilemma. 
               "What should you say?" repeated the other; "why, that you accept what I offer, and that you engage in this superb plan, heart and soul-" 
               "I cannot at present," said Gervase; "I am a coward, and dread results." 
               "You are in an awkward predicament, however," observed the other, draining his glass, and lighting a last cigar; "for I leave you with the full knowledge that you are in part committed, and responsible-" 
               "And for this very reason," said Gervase, "I ought to-" 
               "Yes," interrupted the other quietly; "you ought to keep your word, and not to betray me: but in fact I'll give you time to think." 
               "While you precipitate matters further?" asked Gervase, in a tone of suspicion which implied also that he might feel resolute to resist any such attempts, and so, fatally embarrass the progress of the scheme. 
               "I pledge you my word not to make one single further move until I see you again or hear your decision," was the answer. "My business in London is of quite a distinct kind, and has no reference in any form or shape to you, or to what I have already disclosed to you." 
               "May I believe you?" asked Gervase, the uncertainty pressing upon him with more force than ever. "Can I safely trust to your forbearance?" 
               "Yes; for you can hardly keep yourself; and, in this case, I have no motive to act. The rest remains with you; and now I must bid you a hasty farewell." And he moved towards the door, whither Gervase followed, with a lamp. 
               "You must have much faith in my promise, after all," observed Gervase, as the other opened it and stepped into the passage. 
               "Within a fortnight or so you will hear of me, and that will be final," returned the other, and then added, "why should I distrust you? It seems to me, after all, that you, not I, receive the benefit of my act; that is, if you are wise enough to follow the path I point out." 
               "On that score," returned Gervase, while the departing guest was putting on his cloak, "there exists a difference of opinion which we will not discuss farther. I shall expect you then in that time?" and he advanced to the door. 
               "Do so, was the answer. The door opens. The black, tempestuous night yawned without, and disclosed a coach at the door, drenched with rain, while the cloaked form of the visitor seemed to loom larger in the glare and the gloom. 
               He turned his face to Gervase, as he closed the door after him, and as he put his foot on the step, a wild smile flickered on his pale and meagre visage as he said, "Adieu! and do not forget." He stepped in. The coachman, closing the coach, mounted the box, and in another moment it had disappeared in the distance. 
               "Adieu, Herr Rufels," said Gervase, as he closed the door after him. "If I did not know you, my dog did. What demon, jealous of our peace, has sent this restless and evil spirit here to trouble us farther, I wonder? If I were not amused at his incredible story, I should certainly fear him, and I do not think that I do." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE CLIMAX. 
               IT was Friday, and if Gervase believed not in it as an ominous day, nor was impressed with the ancient faith that it was not a day auspicious to enterprise, he might have so supposed from the weight he felt upon his mind as he rose that morning. A vague dread, a sense of danger, a shadowy fear rested upon him; which, do what he would, he could not shake off, and he determined, as the best thing, to take a long excursion into the country, and thus while away the time and the anxiety he felt, which all his philosophy could not relieve. 
               Confiding this intention to his wife, (who was in better spirits than usual,) but without telling her his reasons, he started forth on horseback, and taking the direction of Bath, was soon clattering along the road, and beginning to feel the invigorating effects of the fresh and pure air which sang around his ears. As he felt his gloom giving way, and as the play of the animal spirits increased, he congratulated himself upon the step he had taken. 
               The weather was bright, but bitter cold, and the crystalized snow lay thickly on the ground, while the undulating country which was lovely in the spring and summer time, had a bleak, but also a pleasing aspect; farm and cottage, hill and valley, village and distant hamlet, and snug prosperous market-town, appeared in rapid succession, and he was beginning to forget the weight he had borne with him, but had lost on the road, when he rode into Bath, and descended at a hotel, to rest his horse and obtain some refreshment. 
               Faithful had followed him almost unnoticed, but as Gervase took his seat in the warm coffee-room, and broke his biscuit, to which he had added a little wine, the noble dog, crouched on the hearth just before him, brought back with surprising force the phantom he had been flying from. 
               So intense was the revival, that a feverish desire to return instantly seized him, with a potency so irresistible, that he could barely finish his light repast and feed the poor dog: but no sooner was this done, than having his horse brought out, now fresh once more, he mounted him, and was again on the road, in his impatience scarcely sparing whip or spur, till his steed was covered with foam, when in mercy to the animal he slackened his pace for a while. It was afternoon when he arrived at Clifton, and, descending, he gave his horse to the servant, entered the hall, where for a moment he stood to give a few words of direction to him. 
               All at once Gervase heard a scream, a cry, and his own name mentioned. It was the voice of his wife, in a tone of dread agony and terror, calling out for him. Dashing open the door of the room, he rushed in, and saw that Rufels himself, his presentiment thus made true, was holding her by one arm, while his face was lighted up with every demoniac passion-pride, malignancy, love and hate-which could actuate him. It seemed as if he had lost the restraint which generally ruled him, or had been exasperated to a pitch of fury by her loud outcries and exclamations. 
               With a single bound Gervase sprang upon and caught him by the throat. The strength of the German was, as we have said, prodigious, but it availed him nothing in the iron gripe of the outraged husband-the insulted man-the enraged foe. 
               "Dog!" said Gervase between his teeth, "I could strangle you where you stand-but--" and he hurled the latter from him as though he had been some noxious creature, while Maria hurried half-fainting from the room. 
               They were alone, distant from the servants, and were met like two foes between whom a fatal encounter must take place. The indignation of Gervase knew no bounds, and was so excessive that for a moment he could not speak. His panting breast showed the passion under which he labored to be strong indeed. 
               Pale as a corpse, cold as a stone, calm as a statue, the bruised German rose, and wiped away with his handkerchief, the blood and the perspiration from his brow. For a single instant he stood glaring upon Gervase with eyes that emitted the lurid light they were at times remarkable for; and it was evident that he too was undergoing some tremendous internal struggle, and sought to conquer himself. 
               "Ah!" said he, in a voice so calm that even Gervase was stunned at the powers of self-possession possessed by this man; "it is very true that you have entered at a critical moment; but do not misconstrue either your virtuous wife or my less virtuous self. Do justice even in anger." 
               "I do not misconstrue either," replied Gervase, bitterly. 
               "Capital!" laughed the German. "I did not give you credit for so much sang froid. Husbands are often in the way, and enter their own rooms in a manner by no means ceremonious. It was scarcely necessary, however, to have been so precipitate." 
               "Do you see the door?" asked Gervase, calmly. 
               "I do," returned Rufels, now perfectly calm. 
               "Pass through it and never enter it more," was the brief order. "Another door will open for you soon, which you will not pass so easily. I hold no longer any terms with you. Your time is up." 
               "One moment, or rather several moments more. You must be aware that this scene so remarkably agreeable, must have a pendant quite as remarkable;" and Rufels spoke with his old mocking suavity, which only increased the other's anger. 
               "You wish me to fight with you, because you insulted my wife," said Gervase, haughtily. "Learn however that I do not condescend to place a ruffian on the same par with myself. You will be more ignominiously used. Once more depart." 
               "By no means-not yet. We are both of us men of courage; and therefore it is not from any want of that requisite that we do not fight," returned Rufels, without moving a foot. 
               "We shall not fight then," said Gervase, with polite irony. "I ought to feel obliged to you, perhaps, for your forbearance. Your audacity truly is only surpassed by your villainy." 
               "I assure you that there will be something of more material nature to think about than fighting or squabbling;" returned Rufels, in those tones of conviction, which Gervase too well knew to doubt. "If it is the crisis of my fate, as from your words I gather it to be, it is also yours and-hers." 
               "Your face is white, your lips quiver, and your eyes sparkle," said Gervase. "Do you mean, perchance a sleeping draught for me, or the thrust of a dagger-a foray by night, fire and assassination." 
               "Most worthy Paladin, no!" was the retort. "I am a man with only one throw left, and fear not consequences." 
               "You have desired to influence my wife?" asked the other. 
               "Oh, in fact, it was a trifling matter," replied the German, with a shrug; "I only begged her to convince you that I was your true friend." 
               "I think I can guess it-she refused!" and Gervase bent a searching look upon his unshaking enemy. 
               "She refused! are you surprised at it?" asked Rufels. 
               "Why should I? Was it not natural?" demanded Gervase. 
               "Under the circumstances-no," rejoined Rufels. 
               "You intend then, to reason the matter with me," said Gervase. 
               "If you had been a Parisian and married twenty years, you could not take this affair with a more admirable indifference. Well-yes," added Rufels, "such is my intention." 
               "I am a little busied this afternoon," said Gervase, quite calm now. "If it be only to exchange civilities that you remain, it is a great pity, for I warn you that I shall not listen to them; and you will do well to depart, lest I forget that rule of colder reason, and let my passion master me so far as to suggest force." 
               "It is never well to be in a hurry when matters of importance are to take a decisive turn, Mr. Murray," said the German with great gravity. "And if you will allow yourself to be advised by me, you will ponder deeply before you arrive at your final conclusion" 
               "It is possible," returned Gervase. "But in the meantime-and you should know by this time that decision is one of my prominent qualities-allow me to say, that I do not think any advice you can give will produce the effect you desire." 
               "It has done so before now, sir," the other replied, with a compression of the lips, and a slight contraction of the brows. "And if you will take the trouble to refer back, you will light upon one occasion in which my advice has guided you, though you had to all appearance decided to act differently." 
               "Appearances are deceitful, Herr Rufels," said Gervase, with an ironical intonation, under which the other winced, "and no man can know that so well as yourself, whose life has been one deception--" 
               "Take care, sir, what you say," broke in the German, sternly. "If we part without a cordial understanding, it will not be a matter easily made up. I warn you, and--" 
               "And you threaten me!" said Gervase, contemptuously. "Learn from me, I beseech you, that what power you may have had over others, does not extend itself to me. I care too little for the menace of any man, to heed anything that you may say, either by way of threat or of promise; and knowing what I know, and seeing what I have seen, there can be but one relation between us-that existing between men who cannot breathe the same air together." 
               "I wish to undeceive you of an error you have fallen into," said the German, with his mocking air of politeness. 
               "An error!" repeated the other. "Perhaps so. I do not, however, often commit one." 
               To his surprise and annoyance, however, the German coolly sat down, and with perfect self-collection began: "It is not to suppose you are so free from that power you are candid enough to admit I have exercised on others. That power, sir, by a singular act of your own, has been transferred over you. I hold it, sir,-aye in my grasp now!" And he shook his clenched fist in the air. 
               Gervase started. Was it indeed true? but the next moment he gave a laugh of scorn, and said, "This is exactly of a piece with much of former very effective acting I am quite willing to believe that a man who appeared to have no hesitation in persecuting a woman formerly when unprotected, would not scruple to slay her protector now if he stood in the way. Unluckily I do stand in the way, and am a pretty sure obstacle too: but take care that my hand changes not into a hammer; it will crush you; and my forbearance lessens every time. One attempt more-and, dog, it will be the last, and you shall have dog's treatment." 
               Rufels had been fiercely biting his lips till the blood started. "You have thwarted me over and over again," he resumed. "You have-fool that you are!-more than once perilled both yourself and me: and you defy me-you call me dog!"-and the foam stood on his lips. "Aha!" he shouted, "if you only knew what a piece of potter's ware you are in my hands--" 
               Gervase was both startled and shocked to find himself yielding to his past terrors, for he dreaded more on account of his wife than for himself; and he doubted not but that now at least he was to know the extent to which it could be carried, and he trembled. 
               "Do you mean to speak further? to irritate me more? You see I have been very calm," said he with as great a temper as he could command. 
               "I see it. I will speak farther-that is, if you compel me; for everything, after all, depends on you;" and Rufels paused. 
               "I don't compel you," said Gervase. "Leave my house and be silent on what is passed, if you would have leniency shown to you for what you have already done. End this, and leave me." 
               "If I leave your house, I shall neither be silent, nor be at peace," returned the other, with deliberate hardihood. "My last stake is called for-the last cast of the dice is to be made. For nothing under heaven can prevent my speaking, or undo what has been done." 
               "Fool!" said Gervase, "this is mere raving." 
               "Have you not observed of late that men look strangely upon you; that women, more than once, have avoided your wife, and do not invite her so often; that the eye of suspicion is on you?" 
               Gervase started as if electrified. He had of late seen a change among those he knew, but as he could not apply it to himself or his wife, he had passed it over as an impertinence not to be repeated. 
               "It is you, then, slanderer and scoundrel, who has done this!" he exclaimed furiously, and he rushed towards Rufels, who neither spoke nor showed fear; calm and quite unmoved he awaited the blow; and Gervase, disarmed by this show of mere passive resistance, suspended his hand, and stood gazing on him, till, by the reaction, he was quieted again. The young man wiped his brow. His forehead was damp with the dew of an irrepressible fear. The sword was literally suspended over the head of his wife at last. 
               "You spoke of transferring the power you held over her to me," said Gervase; "is that the case? I do not know it, and will not own it: and I demand to know what it is you hide under so specious a show of power?" 
               "You will own it, Gervase Murray," said the other with a sneering smile. "And what if you cannot help it? what if it does ring through the world, and nought can deaden the sound--" 
               "In God's name speak-speak!" cried Gervase, in agony. "If you are human, and not a devil quite, speak!-Let me know the worst!" 
               "You refuse my coalition-my plans-my offers?" asked Rufels, as if he was willing to purchase silence by the adoption of the darling scheme he had so unblushingly laid before him. 
               "I refuse you at once and forever. I will neither join you nor know you or your plots, farther. But this I will know, and since you yourself compel it, I will know, ere you leave this room, what you have to say of me or of my wife. I will know the hideous secret you keep in perpetual suspense over her. And now speak-though your words were lightning and death were in them-speak out; for you have what you have longed for, the time, the place, the opportunity-for from hence you go to prison!" 
               "It is well," said Rufels, as a frightful spasm crossed his face. "I will speak calmly: do you listen calmly; for violence, menace or outrage, will help neither of us-enemies as we must be-though you do tell me that a prison is ready for me. And unless common interests can make us friends, such may hap. It will be seen, however, after you have heard-for hear you shall-what course you will take." 
               Gervase shook his head. "I am calm, and I will be patient. Fear no outrage; speak on, but speak as to one from whom there is nothing to escape-hide nothing. Color all-exaggerate everything, I care not if you only speak." 
               "Sit down, then, and I will tell you an interesting story. In fact, it will be the most romantic pendant, as I have already hinted, and wish to impress upon you, that can possibly be;" and the German had perfectly recovered both his quietude and his courage, if, indeed, he had really lost either of them previously. 
               There was a cool malignancy, too-a relish of evil, and an appreciation of the pain the man was about to inflict-(a fact that Gervase instinctively felt to be the case,) which the youth felt as the sense of an approaching calamity, something horrible and to be dreaded as hanging over his head, which might convert his Eden into a wilderness, all blasted by a withering simoon, and change the angel face of Maria into something demoniac or gorgon-visaged-that might, in fact, so imbue his cup of life with a deadly bitterness that nothing in the future could ever sweeten, that Gervase shrank in mute horror from the man's person and looks. Knowing, however, like a brave man aware of a danger he must meet, that the secret, if not told now, would be told at some future time, and in other presences, Gervase steeled his heart, and fortified himself with the consciousness that what must be met, is best met boldly; so, with a wonderful composure of person and of voice, he calmly bade the German "say on!" 
               They sat opposite to each other: the light fell upon the pallid yet strangely swarthy face of the German, and upon his long hair, which seemed to be animated by a hideous life, while Gervase sat in the shade, watching every play of his countenance. In the great easy-chair, Rufels, leaning indolently backward, as if to luxuriate with greater ease in the torture he was going to inflict, began, in a smooth and silky voice, to tell his wonderful story. 
               "It is considerably more than a dozen or fourteen years ago," said he, "that I first became acquainted with a young, lovely, and accomplished orphan girl, who, by one of the singular and apparently merciless caprices of fortune, had been left destitute and friendless among strangers, in a strange place, and with none to care for her. Her surviving, only surviving parent, had died on the Continent, during one of those insurrections then so common, and she had not a living soul in the world that she knew of to whom she could apply for aid." 
               "Go on," said the young man, in an attentive but sombre voice, "I am listening. Not a word escapes me." 
               "At the time I was a student," continued Rufels, "dwelling in a garret of the hotel in which she lived. I had before been attracted by her beauty, her stateliness, her haughty demeanor, and her lofty air. I saw in her as one sees in something at a distance, one of those women mighty for good or evil, and one whose agency, according to its guidance, could lead a man to a scaffold or a title. I-"here the German hesitated a moment.-"I even loved her-loved her as one loves the princess in a fairy tale, as the poet adores a star, as the visionary loves his fond theories, as the martyr at the stake longs for the golden crown for which his fiery pyre is preparing him to grasp-"Here he paused for a moment. 
               "This, at least," said Gervase, "should have prompted you to a course different from that you have followed. But proceed, I am impatient to hear more." 
               "Chance equalizes all conditions," continued Rufels; "and fate had reduced this peerless creature to the level of the student, who fared like an anchorite, whose accomplishments were the marvel of professors, whose pride was boundless, will dominant, and ambition insatiate. It required little to become acquainted with her. I pitied her desolation, and I could render her assistance which no scruples could resist; for I was then pure, sincere, and--ha! ha!" here he gave vent to a sardonic laugh; "yes! I was then innocent, devoted, and loved her as a man loves his soul." He seemed to be greatly moved at this juncture, and put his hand over his face, as if he would fain prevent an emotion-a transient or unmanly weakness-from being seen. 
               "You might be pitied," observed Gervase, "had you stopped here." 
               "There was no pause for me in aught I took in hand," was the answer. "The demon of gaming, however, had seized me. Wearied with studies, long and abstruse-and I had before begun the habit of quitting my lonely little room, and mingling in the gayest, the wildest society-the highest and lowest-for I could earn money by my classical skill, and by writing theses for the students whenever I pleased. Both extremes of society whiled away my weariness, but also disgusted me. In the higher grades, however, I saw what wealth and influence could do, and I resolved to possess both; and with me to resolve, to will, was to act, and that with a rapidity and force that as often brought me success as failure." 
               "I see," said Gervase, bitterly; "this young girl was to be your stepping-stone to fortune, and you would have sacrificed her like a priest does his victim at the altar, had it been necessary to your abhorrent selfishness." 
               "As usual, you judge of me in an erroneous light, and you do me wrong. I did not think so then," replied the imperturbable narrator; "and as I have no purpose to serve in telling you any falsehoods, you may believe me in all I say. I extenuate naught, exaggerate nothing. The naked truth is quite terrible enough, and the climax comes fast." 
               "Go on," said Gervase; "only," he impatiently added, "it strikes me it is your own history you are relating, and I am not so much interested in that as you appear to imagine. It is scarcely necessary for me to tell you, that it is in the fate of another my whole interest and attention are concentrated." 
               "It is an introduction to the history of that other in whom you are interested," was the unmoved rejoinder; "and I warn you, in turn, that I am telling my story like a skillful novelist. I have given you the introduction-presently we shall come to the pith and marrow of the whole. Ah! by heaven!" he exclaimed, almost wildly, "it is full of what you hear men call-dramatic-requiring but little, in fact, to make it a tragedy of such a strength of color, as might burn the eyes out of the head but to behold it. There's-blood about it too!" 
               Gervase shuddered. He felt there must be truth in this appalling tale, which was related with mingled levity and pain, with a fiendish lightness, or with a throe of anguish, that could not always be concealed. 
               "Besides," continued the other, "as you do not forbid the angel to mourn his lost estate sometimes, I may be pardoned, too, if in these remonstrances I mourn for the flower and the leaf of my life's spring and summer which lie scattered around me, as they are trampled on the ground when the winter blasts are hoarsely biting at the bare stems. I have something to be sorry for too. My youth wasted-my hopes prostrated-my knowledge vain-my heart empty-my love, the fabled apples on the Sea of Gomorrah not more dead at the core. Allow me to take a glass of wine-for-for I am sick to the very heart." 
               His head fell upon his breast. The pallor of his face grew still more ghastly to look on, which was heightened by the almost livid hues of his cheeks, where the black beard he usually wore was shaven away. There were here anguish and sadness, real and deep, in his voice. That he was earnest in his lament, Gervase could not doubt an instant; and despite of the crimes which clothed this lost creature like a tainted mantle, the young man could feel nothing but the deepest pity and commiseration for his approaching fate. 
               He rose, and, going to the buffet, poured out a glass of wine, which he gave to Rufels, saying, "Drink!" 
               For the first time in his life, Gervase saw that the hand of this indomitable creature trembled as he stretched it out for the glass. His hollow cheeks, with the lorn and desolate expression which reigned in the forlorn eyes, but too well indicated that consumption of the soul, when, in its combustion of uncontrolled passions, it is destroying slowly or rapidly the frail tenement which binds it, but which, rent and torn asunder, at some paroxysm greater than another, ends the gigantic strife, and sends the impetuous spirit before the throne of heaven! 
               "Thanks!" said he, huskily, and drank it up. "It is a brave liquor! More-more, for I have hardly got through the half of my story; and," added he, with a discordant laugh, "if you survive it, as you may, and are an old gray-headed grandsire, you may tell it around the winter-hearth some night, when you wish to emphasize some moral more deeply than another. Aha! More-more!" and he gasped for breath. 
               Gervase placed the wine before him, and Rufels poured it out, and drank it greedily. A long pause followed, during which his eyes sparkled up, his cheeks had a hectic tinge in them, but the throbbing veins in his forehead beat with less violence. 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Rufels, lifting up his head with something of a sigh of regret, "had you but listened to me!" 
               "I have been listening to you," said Gervase. 
               "I mean, to my former proposals," began the German. 
               "It is useless for you to speak of that now, as it would have been before," returned Gervase, with decision. "If I had been ever so disposed to have fallen in with your schemes-wild, presumptuous, and nefarious as they were---" 
               "They were easily justified by the code of mankind," said the other, composedly, "as I have intimated to you." 
               "Be it so, and have it so, if you will," continued Gervase, "and we will debate that point no longer. I repeat, if I had been ever so much inclined to fall in with your views, such would now and forever be rendered impossible." 
               Rufels looked curiously once more, unshaken, into the face of the speaker. He saw in the pale, collected, but firm air, the expression of a man that has but one mode of expression for one plan he intends to follow. He read there, too, something more, and he quailed before that inflexible gaze, which seemed to read the darkest tablet of his own soul, on which the history of a wild and fitful life of good intentions, warped and twisted into a channel of wrong, was engraven as on adamant. 
               "Proceed with your story," said Gervase, seeing that Rufels was now recovered, and impatient to hear the whole. 
               "Where was I?" asked Rufels, vacantly. 
               "You were lamenting your lost youth, leafless branches, and bitter fruit-fruitful harvest of the seed sown." 
               "There is something in that, too," said Rufels in a hollow tone, as if he had been thrust back into the channel of his relation, and was carried back by the emotions that for a brief time had slept. "There is something in that. For but to think of your curly-headed childhood, when Innocence, like an angel, took you out by the hand to play in the meadows, and hushed you to sleep in music and soft dreamings; and to think of the after-life of man, which his passions have polluted,-and remorse flaps her wings over the couch, or the frowning Nemesis stands in every corner, or follows your steps with silent feet, and you sleep no more as you did erstwhile, nor behold the angel of the meadows, but the dark devil dogging you, even in the moment when you would repent. Ah, me! it is sad to think of that contrast." 
               "Very sad," was the observation of Gervase; "and you who know this, and describe the contrast with such power, could you not have stopped ere it was too late? Could you not have halted midway in your career, and turned to the sorrowful shadow of your own better life, that still pointed out Hope in the distance, still waiting to take you by the hand?" 
               "I could not, because I did not," was the reply. "Why, I cannot tell; and it would be vain to seek for reasons where reasons would be worse than useless. I had gone on too far to retract, and the tremendous impetus had been given me. Well, gaming did its work, and I could not fill my pockets as I emptied them. I had, however, created an influence; in fine, I brought my protege out on the stage, where her first appearance was a success that startled the admiring world." 
               "My wife!" muttered Gervase. "Go on." 
               "Assuredly," returned Rufels, lifting up his eyes. "Assuredly it was your wife, and she owes me something, too, for having found those gifts, with which she would have perished in obscurity-" 
               "Oh! would that you had left her," murmured Gervase in his anguish. 
               "I loved her," said Rufels, "and I told her so. She was grateful. She could not love me-could esteem me-but no more; and I never bled from the wound of a weapon as my heart bled at that cold, decided, unimpassioned denial. Never did I endure more mortal torture than from her simple words." 
               "Why, what else could you have expected?" asked the husband. 
               "I had made her a meteor, a fiery star; her career was a conquest, and her path one of triumph; but I was determined to share both the conquest and the triumph. Having made her what she was, I could not make one of the mob around her chariot wheels; and for all this she owed me more than thanks, gratitude, and friendship. But" cried the excited man, "I am not to be paid with words. And they have only such value in my eyes as words without meaning always possess for me." 
               "And what did you then?" was the next question. 
               "She was too virtuous," said Rufels, dryly; "which was a pity; and by this time I had ceased to respect virtue myself. I could not afford it. I was growing poor; and though vice is very expensive, under certain conditions, so is virtue also-" 
               "And yet you know better than to utter this wretched paradox," said Gervase, sadly. 
               "The path of vice is like a maelstrom-like a raging fire-like irresistible death! Do you think I did not struggle! By the mystic universe! it has cost me sobs and tears, and now, youth, health! I tell you, man, you cannot know or conceive how impossible it is to go back. I see this moves you, but it suits me better now. Ha, ha! This recital is in good style, and pleases you by its point and amplitude of speculative interest. Wait a little," he continued, for the mood of mocking was returning to him, and he laughed with a ferocious bitterness as he detailed his downward course, step by step, with a frightful zest. 
               "If," said Gervase, sadly, "your sorrow for what you have lost in the past be so great, why have you not sought to retrace the path, as I have said? It is never too late to repent." 
               "My friend, you are no philosopher, or you would know that men were not made to walk backward," was the answer; "and I of all men, am least fitted to act that dull and cowardly part. I have played with the iron dice of fate, and I have lost," said Rufels, hoarsely; "and if you don't know what that means, so much the better for you, Gervase Murray; for there is a luxury in some sentiments that I can appreciate, and you at this moment possess, or ought to possess, that feeling." 
               "Go on, in heaven's name go on," cried Gervase; "I am in torture to hear all." 
               "She refused my love," Rufels continued, "and she baffled my plans. She fled from the scene of her victory and escaped me. Ruin, with the addition of dishonor, rendered me frantic, and I swore to be revenged. For a length of time I was unable to discover her track, but the earth is not wide enough to hide one from the search of disappointment, whetted by rage and revenge. I did find her," (here he breathed hard between his teeth,) "and then she began to dread me, while formerly she had, I think, only despised me, though she must have marvelled at my means and address." 
               "You found her-where?" demanded Gervase. 
               "She was living in peace, in content, but, like the demon, I broke into the Eden and began the work of ruin. Her protector was ill, old, and infirm. I attended him assiduously, but he died, though not till for a second time she escaped me; the old man died and his death caused suspicion, which I took care should rest upon her; yet not so that anything connected with his immediate death should touch her publicly. It became simply a moral force of my own." 
               "Monster!" cried Gervase involuntarily, and rising up, he paced the floor in stormy agitation. 
               "You begin to know me, then?" said Rufels, with a fierce laugh; "but patience, there is more to come." 
               "And this old man's death," said Gervase. "Do not omit, I beg you, that secret, if I am to know all. How was it?" 
               "His life or his death are matters of little consequence," returned Rufels with inimitable coolness. "He was as little fit to live as any wretch to whom life, till Maria went to live with him, had become a burthen and a curse." 
               "And why not have left him?" demanded Gervase sternly. "Why did you interfere with either? If the old man had been hard and usurious all his lifetime, there was then one near him who, by the force of her own nature, would have transformed his arid home into a blossoming garden-" 
               "Why did he not do so for me?" demanded Rufels in turn, and with an indignant fierceness that actually startled Gervase. "Why not for me, who was worth, every way, a million of such crawling reptiles as he was? One that never passed along life's track without leaving a slimy track behind him! One that never had communion with a human creature but to fawn-to cringe-to ruin! I! a man of high gifts-I know it-of capacities-of impulses akin to the divine attributes of poets-I! a philosopher in lore-a scholar in learning-why, if you will insist that she should have been the leading star for any man, was she not so to me-so immeasurably the superior of that piece of carrion-of me, who was in every way so worthy of her?" and standing in the floor, mastered by the rush of mighty passions, that made him forget all his responsibilities in his own profound and absorbing egotism, his attitude was almost sublime. 
               If there was no actual justice in his emotion, there was much that startled Gervase, and made him ponder a moment before he replied. The overwhelming intensity with which the outburst had been made, rendered it, too, not a little difficult to rationalize upon. 
               "Still," Gervase began, "this was no reason for the course you took-" 
               "Reason!" snarled Rufels! "Do I pretend to give you reasons for aught I have done. Take the facts, therefore, as they stand." 
               "The fact is, then," said Gervase "that this old man's death was suspicious, you say? I would know then-" 
               "It is not of him that I speak," interrupted Rufels, hurriedly and uneasily. "Nothing could have saved him-his constitution was broken up-and the earth was clear of so much lumber when he was gone. I possessed myself of some papers, which with a little skilful play on your part as I had done on mine, would have given you possession of an earldom;" and Rufels dwelt upon this point as though there was something actually amounting to folly in the other's rejection. 
               "Earldom!" said Gervase with a laugh. "Are you, then, quite an idiot to suppose that in so shallow a scheme there could have been the slightest hope of success?" 
               "And I repeat to you that nothing could have been simpler," insisted Rufels with strange pertinacity. "If the first step was easy to him, the rest would have been easy to me. This old man was a usurer-a rich, astute, old lawyer, as I have had the satisfaction of informing you before, on a former occasion;" and again he resumed his seat, as if he was going to run over the heads of the argument once more. 
               "That old man was a relative of mine," said Gervase; "and if you have not committed murder upon him, the suspicions which I have of you are the lighter from that fact, while you may have to prove yet your innocence." 
               "A relative of yours!" and Rufels stared blankly. Then, with a start and a wave of the hand, he said, "True, I ought to have known that, and yet my information has not comprehended it all, from a variety of causes I cannot stay to enumerate. But you grow impatient. You must not be wearied, however, for even yet all is not told." 
               "Finish your story," interrupted Gervase roughly. "You shall have my commentary upon it when it is over. The old man-her friend, her relative, her protector-dead-you drove her forth branded-what became then of her?" 
               "I found that Maria was hidden in London," resumed Rufels. "I set a dissolute nobleman on her track. This part is broken and disjointed-but-" 
               "Innocent, pure, and good-that I will swear she was-despite all," ejaculated Gervase, devoutly. "God bless her!" 
               "Innocent! pure! good!" screamed Rufels, with a horrid laugh. "Your wife-your beloved-your dove-your beautiful-is a returned convict!-a transported felon! There's your secret; and what think you of it now you have it-ha!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE CATASTROPHE. 
               GERVASE, at these frightful words,-which fell upon him like a mighty curse, that froze his blood with horror, and seemed to suspend the functions of life-fell back like one reeling from a blow on the brain-like a man that had received a deadly stab. He was stunned; and a sound ever rang in his ears, all composed of these blighting words, which pealed like clamorous thunders above, below, and around him:-"Your wife! your beloved! your dove! your beautiful! is a returned convict-a transported felon!" 
               Was it-could it be possible! Was it not some harrowing dream, some ghastly phantasy, that gave form to that spectral thought and haunted him with a horror too great for utterance, almost too mighty to be comprehended; though, when he lifted up his eyes and beheld the white, scornful countenance of the man who thus cast a terror over his whole life, he dimly knew that truth, such as it was, must be in those words. 
               But then the immitigable shock. What was he to do? where fly for relief? His first impulse was to hurry away from the place, and seek for refuge in any place most distant-farthest from the face of man. Oh! the dishonor of the thing, how it burned into his heart! On his very brows even the brand was ineradicably stamped, and every human eye that looked upon him must behold it, and the finger of scorn or of pity, one quite as unbearable as the other,-of contempt or of commiseration, would be pointed after him. "There is the man proud of his wife-his home-himself, who has wedded a criminal!" "Yonder goes the merchant who united his fate to that of a felon!" What would wash away the stain of this black, blistering blot? Blood! Alas! she might perhaps be pitied; but she had no right to plunge him into the pit of infamy-to drag him down spotless to her own degraded level. 
               "Liar!" he exclaimed at last, springing upon Rufels; "this is but one more of your falsehoods. Say so, and I will pardon you. Relieve me of this choking horror, and I will forgive you. Say that it is a falsehood, a lie forged from spite and malice, created by the impulses of your own black heart. Tell me so, and on my knees I will bless you." 
               Rufels might be touched by this appeal. He saw the bold, defiant man, trembling before him, and if he had desired to triumph, he did so now. He might not care, for he was as still and impassive as ever. He even repeated the words, adding; "You courted this; you brought it all upon yourself." 
               At this moment Maria, looking like a Pythoness, with flashing eyes, in which the fire of madness shone-with lips on which a furious foam was clinging, with dishevelled hair, and a face terrible, in its unspeaking beauty, to witness, entered the room and the door closed behind her. She looked a moment from one to the other. She put her hands up to her head as people do in pain or in distraction. She saw one crushed and the other armed in his diabolic wickedness. It was an awful moment for her. 
               "I have heard him," she said at last, with terrible calmness. "The last words alone, brought me forth; till then I stifled my heart's throbbings-I could not hold out any longer and live." 
               "And is it true?" gasped out Gervase,-"true that you are a--Oh! my God! I-I shall go mad! Speak, woman, speak!" 
               A pin might have been heard to fall, as they awaited her answer. Her whisper came like a hiss; "it-is-true!" 
               "Have you never looked on her shoulder for the damning brand-the felon's mark?" said Rufels. 
               Gervase sprang towards her, tore off like a maniac a portion of her dress, and bared her white shoulder. Of a verity, though it blinded his eyes to behold, there was the mark of the hangman's searing-iron. It had been burned into her tender flesh deeply enough. 
               "Oh, my God-my God!" groaned Gervase, "this is too much-this is frightful, hideous!" and sinking into a chair, he covered his face with his hands, sobbing in uncontrollable agony. It was fearful to behold him, turned into a child, stricken, bowed down in the very throne of his pride-where he had believed himself enviable, happy, even lifted above his fellow men. 
               "Did I not tell you that you would loathe me?" said Maria, piteously wringing her hands, and bending towards him, as her eyes streamed with tears. "Alas! alas! why did you not believe me? When you saw my agony, and was told of my oath-why did you not pause, oh! my husband! for I would have died loving you, and I should have died happy. It is his hour of joy new;" and she turned to Rufels, who gazed on without visible emotion. 
               "At last," sneered Rufels, "you acknowledge it." 
               "You frighten me," groaned Gervase, also to him. 
               "As to that," was the response, "lay it to your own account. I have avoided it till it became to me a necessity; and in truth," he added in a strange tone, "if it frighten, you, I cannot well be surprised. Only the devil himself could have so tremendous a conclusion; and if I were anything of a cynic," he said, "which I won't insist upon that I am not, I should rejoice, at beholding others as miserable as myself-otherwise I might pity you." 
               "There is no pity in you," said Maria, who had calmed herself down, as people do whose anguish is profound, whose situation is desperate, and for whom there exists no hope. "If I had believed that there was a particle in your heart of stone, I would have prayed for it as I have often done before-and ineffectually. You have for years been to me an agent of such evil as few poor women have ever gone through and lived. It was left for this hour to consummate the task. If there be more left for you to do, let it be finished at once." 
               "But-but," began Gervase, starting up, "there must be another end than this to it. What! am I to lie tranquilly under this odium-to bear this intolerable weight of horror-and am I then to confound myself more than twenty times a day with twenty varied passions-to endure a wrong and to endure it tamely? Oh, no, Herr Rufels-there must be to this another ending;" and Gervase deliberately locked the door and put the key in his pocket. 
               "As you please," observed Rufels, coolly. "What will be, will be; and that's the extent of my philosophy. I have but to say, that this was rather of your own seeking, than of mine; and Fate is the final cause." 
               "Oh! heaven pity him-pity him," murmured Maria, looking with eyes of anguish and pity on her husband, whom she did not venture to approach. "Pity him, gentle heaven, and support him in his affliction." 
               "Do you pray for me, Maria?" asked Gervase, mournfully. "Pray also for yourself, my poor wife, for, as this man has repeatedly told me, the end of all this is not yet come." 
               "What mean you, Gervase?" asked Maria, in alarm. 
               "I cannot tell. This man, who speaks of Fate, may read it better than I do, who have neither skill nor power left; only this," continued Gervase, "I will stand in the world's eye no mark for its pity or scorn. I am only waiting to hear him," pointing to Rufels, "complete his story." And he sat, or rather sank down into his chair again. 
               "Have you not heard enough then?" asked Rufels, turning to his victim, paralyzed and prostrate before him. 
               "Oh, no," was the answer. "I have to know why I,-I was to be linked in this wretched chain? why I, like a doomed wretch, must also wear the chain-and bear the lash-and submit to the brand-Oh, heaven!" and he stamped his foot on the floor, "why do I not strangle you on the spot! Oh, heaven! that she; so tender, so young, so lovely, should have endured this!" 
               "Others as innocent have endured as much as she," returned Rufels, in a sullen voice. "Be the blame on her own head. She disdained me when I would have crawled in the dust before her. She made me what I was. She stands there the living witness of my wrongs, and also of the truth I have stated to you." 
               "Your wrongs!" exclaimed Maria, indignantly. "But why waste time on you? I am a woman that has suffered grievous persecution," Maria solemnly said, turning to her husband. "And I am no more to be held responsible than the seaman wrecked in a storm, the soldier shot in battle, the murdered victim assassinated in the dead of night, the partisan who dies on the scaffold, or the martyr at the stake. I am, and ever have been, so resistlessly the creature of circumstances, that were myself alone concerned, I would submit to all that was to happen to me without complaint. I cannot be silent however." 
               "Then you are innocent?" cried Gervase, in a half-convinced tone. "You are innocent! Tell me so, Maria, and yet-oh, yet-the brand-the returned felon-the woman convict-" 
               "I am innocent of any crime, but that of defending myself," said Maria, tranquilly. "Can that man or woman be guilty, who seeks to fly from the house where flames are raging, or struggling against the wave?" 
               "Innocent and wronged! Do you hear?" shouted Gervase, in the ears of Rufels.-"Say on, Maria. Let me hear from your lips, what I dare not hear from this man's, for all that he says is tainted." 
               "You shall hear, and judge me yourself, for men can heap obloquy and infamy upon innocent heads, from which nothing can ever free them, though the world be conscious of their innocence. When the brand is laid on, the mark set, the infamy of the punishment, or rather the torture, is over," continued Maria; "nothing can wash that out. What has been done is done, and can no more be annihilated than the memory of the ages dead in the past, which come down to us in books." 
               Rufels, as if in commentary to this, only shrugged his shoulders in a contemptuous manner. 
               "He," she continued, pointing to Rufels, "does not know all. I do not think that he can; and if he does, he is a still viler demon than I deemed him. You-oh, Gervase-my Gervase," she added in accents of tenderness and sorrow, "if you will let me call you so, though even for the last time, you shall from my lips know what I can-what I dare tell-for," and her pale cheeks were suffused with blushes, "there is a portion over which I must draw the veil-" and shuddering at the remembrance of what must have been a vile outrage, she buried her face in her hands, and gave a convulsive sob. 
               Gervase clenched his hand, and glared savagely upon Rufels, who, unmoved hitherto, now gave a start, exclaiming, "Are you quite mad? Have you calculated the consequences?" 
               "Silence!" thundered Gervase. "Listen! but stir not, speak not, or I will not answer for your life. My poor girl, speak on," he added, in accents of kindness, turning to his wife. 
               "Oh, thanks!" she exclaimed, with heartfelt gratitude in her voice and looks. "Thanks for those words and the tone in which they were spoken. And since the time for expiation may come soon, what shame I have brought upon you, I will wash away." 
               Gervase looked vacantly at her for a moment, as if not understanding her, but Rufels cast on her a steady glance, and the angles of his mouth began to twitch slightly. 
               "It is a terrible story," she began, in a low tone, and with her eyes cast on the ground. "When the appearance of this man told me that at Westmore's house I had no longer a home, I fled, and but a day or two before he died, and rumor told me that my absence was strangely connected therewith. I knew him well enough to believe, that if it served his purpose that the world should think so, he would take means not to have it undeceived. Weary, and almost dead with terror, I arrived in London, sought an obscure lodging, and sought to gain my living by my needle, for I had no other earthly source left, and to this was added the daily terror, lest I should meet with him. I hoped, but in vain, to baffle him." 
               Maria paused an instant, and then went on, neither of her hearers interrupting her by look or gesture-Gervase, however, devouring every word. 
               "I fell ill at last-stricken with fear and poverty, both together-and lived for a time, by the sale of the few articles which remained-my trinkets, of so little value-my clothes, all but the poor old dress that I wore, were parted with and when nothing was left, the people of the house turned me out of doors, and once more the world was bare and barren before me." 
               Gervase wrung his hands in the extremity of his anguish, for the quiet intensity, so to speak, with which she delineated the sufferings of this period were, by the aid of an active imagination, rendered so vivid, that he could picture her in her bitter penury and deprivation thus consigned to the tender mercies of the world. 
               "I left the house," continued Maria, "without remonstrance, and without reproach, having paid them to the uttermost, and they dreaded lest I should die there, and they be put to trouble with me." 
               "Yes, I conceive that, Maria," murmured Gervase, half aloud, and as if talking to himself, rather than to her. "Alas! yes, men dread poverty and death." 
               "If there be a living horror greater than that of wandering through the bleak streets, houseless, foodless, shelterless, hopeless and there can be but one-the loss of innocence, and the pangs of remorse for a crime-I have yet to know it," said Maria, with much emphasis. "Oh, the sky like a pall, the clouds like brass, the earth so beneficent to the toiler, and so abounding in the loveliness of nature to human eyes; but to the outcast a huge grave-a pit, whereon whose edges we stumble and fall. Oh! the loneliness and desolation of that hour, when shut out from all communion even. You shrink from your kind as though one were an evil spirit, and dreaded detection. I felt it, endured it for two nights, and could endure it no longer." 
               "What!" murmured Gervase, again in the same tone of half soliloquy, "did the pale shadow, after dogging you, stand by your side, and--But no, God is good, and evil cannot prevail so far." 
               "I sat on a bridge, the second night," Maria resumed, slowly, "and listened to the voice of the hungry waters below. I was weak, ill, hungry, and my soul was dark within me. I meditated suicide, and gave a last look at the sky. I strove to pray, and then stood on the verge--" 
               Gervase uttered an involuntary cry of terror. He would have spoken, but the quick and living fear made his parched tongue cleave to the roof of his mouth. There was a strange, still pause. 
               "Do you hear, man of stone that you are, what you brought her to?" he gasped, at length, as, with shaking hand extended to Maria, he drew the wondering attention of the German to her pale and shrinking form. 
               Rufels did not speak, however, and Maria proceeded. 
               "A man's arm grasped me. A kindly voice spoke to me: I know not what I said: but I was put into a coach, conveyed into a tavern, was fed and lodged, and the next day was taken into neat and even handsome lodgings by my preserver--" 
               "Preserver! repeated Gervase. 
               "It was the Earl of Brent!" she said, as if in reply. 
               Gervase reeled back. The Earl of Brent! What a strange complication of events was here! The whole circle of the terrible fate of Maria-of his, his even-and of the German, which had been acted in the extreme ends of the world, all centered in that room. 
               "I found him young, affable and handsome some," continued Maria, "and full of kindness. I told him my story, and was surprised, on disclosing my real name, to see so unusual an agitation in him. It was joy rather than astonishment, and he explained it by saying that he had seen Mr. Westmore, and had reasons for remembering him. Indeed, he spoke too truly, for this old man had been his money-lender, as you have heard." 
               "Yes-yes-pray proceed," said Gervase, distractedly. 
               "He desired to know how he could serve me, and I told him frankly, that if I could obtain lodgings for a little time, and obtain pupils, I should be placed above the danger of want; I had no fear, if on my exertions alone my future was to depend." 
               "Poor girl!" said her husband, "on what a foundation did you build." 
               "I confided to his generosity, and he took me to lodgings near St. James', where, for the first two days, I remained in tranquillity. He came on the third, and-told me in the most passionate terms that he loved me," and again she grew pale and red by turns. Gervase sprang to his feet, and with a sob of pain, laid his hand upon his breast, as if he would be calm in defiance of all provocation. It was too much, however, for human nature, and he bitterly said:- 
               "So this scheme was the concoction of Herr Rufels, and this nobleman, to whose vile appetite he pandered, was still the Ear! of Brent? Degraded dog!" cried Gervase, turning to the moveless German, "if there were wanting one thing to make the cup run over, it is here--" 
               "Alas!" said Maria, "that is still to come. But let me proceed with my story. I determined to leave the same evening. I permitted him to believe that I pardoned his rudeness, and he left me. That house contained women the shame of their sex-the infamy of their kind. A drugged potion-". 
               "Stop," said Gervase, "a moment-a-Oh, my God! what villainy-" 
               "I had but lost myself in stupor," she went on to say, "when his sudden and unexpected entrance roused me. A few moments showed me the horrible gulf I stood upon. My cries, my entreaties, my shrieks, were of no use. Spare me-spare me-" 
               "My poor girl! It requires no witch-craft to read the rest, I can imagine it;" and he passed his arm around her waist. 
               "With a last effort of consciousness, I caught up a knife from the table, and struck it into his breast. He fell bleeding, and I sank senseless to the ground." 
               "My noble Lucretia-my wife!" said Gervase, proudly. 
               "A moment, Gervase," she said, putting him from her. 
               "What! with hands dabbled in blood!" cried the German, with a hideous grin. "Do you not shun her-dread her!" 
               "Silence! or I may have to answer for yours," was the stern reply; "be you silent, for what you have to say will be heard, and it may be well for you if you can palliate the deeds which are here too plainly evident." 
               "You will, however, listen to this," persisted the German, "that of the nobleman's plans, of the murder, or the attempted murder, I was fully aware; but of the punishment that followed I was entirely innocent, and knew no more her fate than if she had never been born, or I had never crossed her path." 
               "Would that you had not," said Gervase, incredulously, "though I take this to be of a piece with any other of your assertions." 
               "That very same week, for reasons best known to myself, I quitted the country," continued the German; "and if you have any knowledge of what was told me by the seaman, who himself was on board the convict ship when she was carried away, and who was in fact the man that branded her." 
               Gervase, with a shudder, put his hands on his ears as if to shut out the hateful words; but Rufels proceeded: 
               "If you recollected that before my mastery of her secret and his, my power was limited, whereas, that after I discovered it, there was no limit to it, you will at once see the reasons of my procedure, as also that my ignorance was total." 
               "It may be so," returned Gervase, "but the fact is not altered." 
               "With that I have nothing to do," Rufels began, when a gesture of menace from Gervase stopped him. 
               "Stay, my husband," said Maria, humbly, "let me proceed; there is little more to tell. I was seized and tried under my assumed name for murder. His dying declaration-though he did not die-ought to have exonerated me. But his name, his family prevailed, and the animosity of those who found a revengeful zest in persecuting me; and I was sacrificed with a cruelty, the more deliberate, that the indictment was absolved of its malicious force even while the man was living to protest so, but that his friends had taken him away." 
               "He is not dead, then," said Gervase, with a changed look. 
               "No," replied Maria. "I have learned that since, and I learned also that it was through his intercession my punishment, all of which I underwent, was commuted." 
               "God be thanked for that, however," said Gervase. "I own I felt a fierce satisfaction in knowing that you had, with a Roman fortitude of character, resented the base insult offered to you; but am glad to know that the responsibility of a life does not rest on your head; though how he feels," glancing on Rufels, "I can scarcely judge." 
               "My story," said Maria, looking timidly towards Gervase, "is told. My shame, my infamy, my wrongs, and my sufferings; and now, Gervase, Oh! my husband, where shall I rest my head-my weary heart?" 
               "Here! on mine, my wife!" shouted Gervase, opening out his arms, into which she rushed with a cry of gladness. "Here! and do not let the past ever torture you more." 
               "Malediction!" shouted Rufels, springing to his feet. "This is too much. Tame fool!" addressing Gervase; "have you no sense of the tie you have formed. But I will blazen it forth." 
               "Stop!" said Gervase. "Do you go forth, Maria. Send instantly for my men-servants within call, and let a messenger be sent to Mr. Haberfield's, and bid him send to me-he will know what for-send his most dependable man." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed Rufels, suspiciously, as he saw Maria leave the room, her retreat covered by her husband. "Is this your plan! Do you dare then to brave the exposure of this scandalous history to the world?" 
               "To tell you that the scandal belongs to you, is to tell you what you will laugh at," replied Gervase, with strange quietness; "but if you think that the barb has gone home, I disappoint you. It has rankled only, my mind is made up, I shall not feel the pain. My wife is responsible for nothing. She now fears nothing. The worst is done and said, and I fear nothing and dread nothing either. She had but my love to lose, and has won it-" 
               "Not the notoriety-the infamy!" howled the German. "Do you then not care for those?" 
               "Not even that; but let us, Herr Rufels, talk as before, confidently, quietly, and at ease." continued Gervase, resuming his seat. "I have in my turn something to communicate to you." 
               "To me?" exclaimed Rufels, amazed at this strange calmness. 
               "Have you forgotten a former interview here held with me?" asked Gervase, "when you confided to me a grand scheme." 
               "No," answered the other; "but you surely did not know me?" 
               "I need not tell you that I knew you perfectly," was the reply to the half-formed question; "and despite your audacity and your disguise; less a disguise than any man ever wore than a reality. Oh, yes; I remember you very well. I had reason to do so." Rufels appeared puzzled at this, but the other went on. 
               "And the person you represented then as dead is not dead, you hear. It is true you have played a bold game, but this was one of the poorest games you have ever made." 
               "He might have been, for all that," growled the other. 
               "And you might have been at the galleys years ago, and are not," said Gervase. "For this you are liable, however. You are liable, also, to give a fuller account of the death of old Westmore than we have had--" 
               Rufels cast an uneasy glance around him, evidently startled. 
               "Read this letter," and Gervase flung him a packet. "Read this precious document, and see if you must not have put a blind confidence in your false fate with the chances of this coming against you?" 
               No sooner had the eye of the German glanced upon it, than his pallid face darkened with the intense bitterness of an unrepressed hatred. His eyes shot fire. His livid lips worked furiously, and his teeth shone now and again like those of an angry dog. He never appeared more bent on mischief than at that moment. 
               "Lost-lost!" he exclaimed; "but by hell! Not without a struggle-not tamely will I submit!" and Gervase saw that he thrust his hand into his breast, like a man that sought for a hidden weapon, but the quiet look of Gervase cowed him. 
               "I warn you," said Gervase, "and my servants are at the door, that I will have no trifling. Were you trebly armed, you are a lost, a doomed man, and can harm me no more. Therefore do not attempt it." 
               There was a coolness about the speaker, less the bravado, than that of perfect confidence in his own resources, though those resources only tended to avenge him in case the German might hold his life at his disposal. Whether Rufels grew merciful, or saw his fate closing like an iron destiny narrower upon him, cannot be said, but he for the instant became altered. 
               "What, then, do you intend to do with me?" he asked, with an intimidated air, and perfectly humbled manner. 
               "I will tell you categorically," was the calm and direct reply. "In a few minutes I will hand you over to the officers of justice." 
               "Officers of justice!" gasped Rufels. 
               "And they will convey you to prison, where," continued the inexorable Gervase, "you will be tried; and I will prosecute you to the utmost-mercilessly, pitilessly. I will hang you twenty times rather than that you should escape. You have poisoned, you have persecuted, have plotted, robbed, and assassinated! You have had no pity, no truth, for any one creature that has been associated with you. You have been false as the fiend, and acted the Judas to all; but to yourself you have proved the greatest deceiver-have played most falsely with your own soul--" 
               "Mercy! pity!" whined Rufels. 
               "Murderer!" cried Gervase, "none for you that do not know it---" 
               "Ah! you will have paid dearly ere long for your share in the tontine," Rufels now said, bitterly and maliciously. 
               "And you, infatuated madman," returned Gervase, "have not only lost your share, but the whole of the numerous chances which waited but your call. It is now too late--" 
               "Is it?" exclaimed the other, and the same instant the report of a pistol-shot rang in the chamber-a man fell-the door was dashed in, and with a furious howl, in sprang Faithful, rendered madly ferocious by the sound-the cry-and the peril of his master. 
               The scene became sickening an instant or two after the smoke cleared away. Gervase, who had been severely wounded, was lifted up by the servants, while over and over on the floor rolled the man and the wild beast, (for the dog seemed to have become perfectly wolfish,) and the blood and mangled flesh from his victim's throat were dripping from his fangs; but the motion of both was too rapid for any help to be given, and even when the dog had been stunned by a blow, his teeth were so fast in their hold, that it was feared the jaw was locked. The month was wrenched open-the face and neck, bloody and torn, lay upward, but the strong, agile frame was still. The bold heart beat not. The plotter, the murderer, neither breathed nor moved. Rufels was dead! and, as though it had been a retribution, the Australian dog, in the form of an avenger, stood wagging his tail, and composedly licking his sagacious jowl, while his ancient foe lay quiet beneath the white cloth which was flung over him. The creator of the tontine was no more! 
               After the death and funeral of Rufels, which was conducted with as little of the bustle usually attendant on those ceremonies as possible (the circumstance, it is true, created a little stir, and caused many questions, as well as exaggerations, such, for instance, as Gervase keeping so dangerous an animal-though every legal question was satisfied, and the replies were as simple as truth would permit them), our hero and heroine began to enjoy some little repose from the feverish troubles they had undergone. 
               The wound Gervase received was, by a providential chance alone, but a slight one; the ball having struck him slantingly on the side-but it left behind a bruise which proved the force of the shock. Anxiety for his wife brought on a fever; but the strong physique of the man was not to be affected by what might have been fatal, and which only missed his breast by the merest accident and the German's haste, and in a few days he had perfectly recovered. 
               Maria suffered a relapse, however, and her illness was long and severe; but the removal of her old foe, her husband's unvarying tenderness and assiduity, wrought so well with her, that, though slowly, her recovery was sure. It was necessary that rest and quietness should do their work; for the nervous system had been deranged, and it was not,-till the presence of Gervase by her bedside began to assuage the lively alarm she had not the power to quiet. The first medical skill, allied with every precaution, proved sufficient; and having passed through a critical ordeal, she began to advance daily in health and strength; time proved to be of more importance than the skill of the physician. 
               Gervase had put the affairs of old Westmore into the hands of an able and honest lawyer; and while the bulk of the old miser's property came to him, a nominal sum sufficed for the release of all the engagements and liabilities of the Earl of Brent, who evidently turned out a repentant man, but whom, despite every attempt and entreaty, Gervase would never see nor hold converse with; and the latter found himself richer by many thousand pounds; so that, with his prosperous mercantile career, he was in a fair way to become a millionaire, without calculating the chances of the tontine, a matter that now troubled him but little, since he himself had been taught a lesson-that the passion for acquiring gold in immense sums-the rage for making a rapid fortune, through avoiding the ordinary channels of acquiring wealth,-were pregnant with the most serious evils. 
               Roundabout received his appointment as captain with great state, and entertained half the officers of the merchant marine of Bristol, in a princely state, on board of the noble vessel of which he was henceforth the sole ruler. The papers of the day gave a "full account of the festival," where every delicacy of the season was gathered, and where urbanity and good feeling presided. 
               He carried his old friendly prejudices in favor of his respected commander, Leechline, to the proposing for the hand of the old captain's widow, and with an honest bluntness that came the quicker to the point; so that his protest of being solely anxious with respect to the relict and the family of the brave seaman was implicitly believed; and after a decent interval of mourning, Mrs. Captain Leechline that was, became Mrs. Captain Roundabout, and well and worthily did Jack Roundabout fulfil his pledge and perform his vow, and the Lively Sally under his auspices made many a voyage after, and his own conduct proved that he was fully worthy of the trust reposed in him. 
               As for Bob Jackson and his pretty wife Fan (Gervase's favorite sister), they were as happy as any pair in the United Kingdom. That this gave Gervase the most unfeigned satisfaction may be easily imagined, and, in his liberality he gave to his old comrade every means of pushing his fortune the other thought fit to ask for. 
               In the mean time, Gervase and his wife, the moment her health was strong enough to bear the fatigue of travelling, set forth for the continent, and traversed through every part that the custom of visiting has rendered fashionable, that fame has made classical, where beauty has taken up its abode, or that sublimity has stamped with an attribute. 
               In continental cities, Maria was curious to show the theatre that had been the scene of her early triumph, or the locality where her life was a mixture of fear and bitterness; but the reminiscences of the past now brought with them no gloom-the present was too fair and golden-the future was too full of hope; and as she was now a mother, the last charm was added to a life of wedded love, and both acknowledged with gratitude that the compensations of life are capable of balancing all its evils, and of healing those wounds of mind and heart, which men in the course of their existence undergo, to a greater or less extent. 
               In all their peregrinations the attached Faithful followed them: and his uncouth, and now developed form, of the most canine dimensions, struck some with surprise-many with a wholesome dread of his sharp fangs: but Faithful was neither quarrelsome nor ferocious in his manners. He had become polished too by long intercourse with better bred dogs; but he always held it as a principle, that, wherever his master or his mistress were, with one or other or both, if together, there must he be also-only that there were occasions when this privilege became embarrassing, and it required something more than mere remonstrance to convince the burly but affectionate brute that he, too, must submit to circumstances. 
               Gervase had written to his friend, Roger Wattles, a full history of the shocking fate of Rufels, without disclosing in the slightest degree, aught that related to his wife; and over her past life a veil of oblivion was drawn which they never after lifted up, and which it was impossible for any other to know-the secret having perished with him who had made such an abandoned use of it. 
               Roger wrote to say that every thing with him was in the most flourishing condition-that Wattles Villa (for so he had dignified the name of his property, over which he was magnate) was in the most prosperous state, and that there was nothing within the limits of his desire that he was not master of. The growing intercourse between Australia and England now engrossed the attention of Gervase-that, between the tide of emigration setting in and the demand for manufactures of every description, he was induced to devote his vessel, together with others bought or built, to this trade alone, and, by consequence, there is a constant and continual intercourse between him and his respected far away friend, who more than once pressingly invited him to take a "trip" over to see him and his "place," as if 15,000 miles was a matter of little heed, and Gervase has passed his promise to do so. 
               For some time past negotiations have been going on between Gervase and the prosperous and broadly-growing Yorkshireman, relative to the closing of the tontine, and dividing the munificent sum between them, to which both are agreeable, as being the most consonant with the friendly relations of each; and it is quite likely that this partition, which puts them in the possession of princely fortunes, will be the nucleus of new enterprises of equal bulk, magnitude and importance. 
               Roger adds, too, that his wife is the happiest, handsomest, and best woman in the world, and that he is the father of some strapping lads who bid fair to grow into six-footers like their father; and Gervase promises himself great satisfaction in the meeting, more feebly combating his wife's entreaty, that she too may accompany him in his voyage the last time that he will tempt the sea, as on their return they mean to retire to the enjoyment of that comfort and independence so worthily earned; and thus having followed the fortunes of the tontine to its promised termination, we take a cordial leave of our readers, wishing each and all of them may have the same promise of a happy future as waits upon Gervase Murray and his wife. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            LONG'S COMPLETE EDITION, from the advance Sheets. 
            COMPLETE. 
            THE SOLDIER'S WIFE, 
            OR SCENES IN CANTEEN AND ON THE BATTLE-FIELD. 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, AUTHOR OF "KENNETH," "COURT OF LONDON," "MARY PRICE," &c. 
            A glorious writer is G. W. M. Reynolds, and here we have one of the latest and best of his works. In the "Soldier's Wife" he has given free scope to his rich and lively imagination, describing the camp, the barracks, and the battlefield, and woman's singular position when found there, with a graphic fidelity that brings the scenes actually before the mind's eye of the reader. The tale abounds with the olla podrida of wit, humor, and pathos for which all the works of Reynolds are remarkable.-Critic.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN STREET. 
            CINCINNATI: H. B. PEARSON & CO., 17 EAST FOURTH-ST. 
            
               
             
          
          
             
            COUNT CHRISTOVAL, 
            OR A SEQUEL TO LORD SAXONDALE. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, AUTHOR OF "COURT OF LONDON," "KENNETH," "COURT OF NAPLES," "MARY PRICE," "RYE-HOUSE PLOT," ETC. 
            THOSE persons who have been interested in the splendid series of Romances by G. W. M. REYNOLDS, commencing with the "Mysteries of the Court of London," and continuing with unabated interest through several volumes, will read COUNT CHRISTOVAL with eager delight. It is a sequel to the thrilling romance entitled "LORD SAXONDALE" and possesses all the attractive features of that delightful work. 
          
          
             
            BEN BRACE: 
            A NAUTICAL ROMANCE. 
            
                
             
            BY CAPTAIN CHAMIER, AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF A SAILOR," ETC. 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
            We do not hesitate to rank "BEN BRACE" with the best nautical tales of Cooper and Marryatt. It is indeed, a most brilliant romance of the sea, full of the most exciting incidents of ocean life, vividly described and abounding with the raciness of sailor dialogue and adventure, that delineates in a masterly manner the peculiarities of sailor character. There is a extensive and vigor about the whole work that irresistibly charms the reader, and cannot fail to secure for it an extensive popularity.-Athenum. 
            A glowing and truthful portraiture of the sailor on the ocean and on the land, in his action and his "yarns." We have never read a more interesting and spirited book. The author is perfectly at home and in his element and with a  of graphic inventiveness makes the reader also delightfully at home with the sailor and the sea. Critic.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 42 ANN-STREET. 
            Just Published-"THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE." Beautifully illustrated. Price 50 cents. 
          
          
             
            THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE. 
            
                
             
             
               NOTICES OF THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               ONE of the most sparkling books of the season. For vivid pictures of bold and reckless daring and dashing adventure, it has never been excelled. The author has unrolled a glorious panorama, in which the palace and the hovel, the prison and the home of virtue, are all presented in striking colors.-Critic.
                
               A spirited and piquant romance irresistibly enchaining the attention of the reader by a series of the wildest and most exciting adventures, in which tragedy struggles with comedy, and the extremes of life are graphically depicted.-Spectator.
                
               This is an intensely interesting narrative of the career of a gay youth. Once taken up, the reader will not be apt to lay it down until he has followed the "Fortunes and Misfortunes of Harry Racket Scapegrace" to the end. The chase after the Scapegrace, that the author gives to the reader, is on exciting and lively one.-Disp.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 42 ANN-STREET. 
               Just Published-"KENNETH: A Romance of the Highlands." By G.W.M. Reynolds. Illustrated. In one volume-paper. Price, 75 cents. 
             
          
          
             
            A REVOLUTIONARY TALE! 
            OLD PUT 
            OR THE DAYS OF '76. 
            
                
             
            A brilliant narrative of some of the most stirring incidents of the Revolutionary War, which will be read with absorbing interest. Old Put's, or Major General Putnam's name, has become a household word in the United States, in consequence of the dashing, reckless bravery, and the many successful exploits of the hero. The author has related many new incidents, in a style at once truthful and amusing. Every American who admires the heroism displayed by our forefathers, in the days "which tried men's souls," should read this story. 
          
          
             
            A COMPANION TO "VANITY FAIR." 
            TOM RACEQUET AND HIS THREE MAIDEN AUNTS. 
            
                
                  TOM CATCHES SIGHT OF MR. BLINK.
                   
               
             
            WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS. 
             
               NOTICES FROM THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               For wit and humor, we have seldom met any production which exceeds "Tom Racquet, and his Three Maiden Aunts." That peculiar vein of fun, drollery, and pathos, which is so difficult of attainment, and so fascinating when attained, has been developed by our author with rare perfection.-Athenum.
                
               .... This is a most delightful and amusing book; something in the mingled style of Thackeray and Hood-a work both to laugh, and cry over. We predict an unprecedented run for it.-London Examiner.
                
               .... A lively and interesting novel. Full of humor and pathos, and as well calculated to drive away a dull hour as any book we have read in months. The author has achieved a rare and difficult style and we augur brilliant success in his behalf.-Spectator.
                
             
          
          
             
            A New Book by the Author of "Frank Fairlegh," "Lewis Arundel," "Colville Family," etc. 
            HARRY COVERDALE'S COURTSHIP, AND WHAT CAME OF IT. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "FRANK FAIRLEGH," "LEWIS ARUNDEL," "COLVILLE FAMILY," "MARRYING MAN," ETC. 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
             
               NOTICE OF THE PRESS. 
               The author of "Frank Fairlegh," and "Lewis Arundel," two of the most interesting books of the day, has excelled even himself in his new work of "Harry Coverdale's Courtship." It is full of the most exquisite drawings of the human character and replace with scenes of wit, pathos, and intense interest.-Athenum.
                
               Racy, sparkling, and marked by the touches of true genius. The author has sounded the depths of the human heart observed society with a keen eye, and laid both bare with a vividness of coloring and accuracy of dissection, which strike forcibly, and retain firm hold of the attention of the reader.-London Literary Gazette.
                
               Equal and in many respects superior, to the best efforts of Dickens-a charming story of a lover's wooing, and a speaking daguerreotype of life and manners.-Critic.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 42 ANN STREET. 
               CINCINNATI: H. B. PEARSON & CO., 17 EAST FOURTH ST. 
                
                  New Works by the Author of Harry Coverdale's Courtship. 
                  FRANK FAIRLEGH, or Scenes in the Life of a Private Pupil, 1 vol., illus. Pr. 50 cts. 
                  LEWIS ARUNDEL, or The Railroad of Life, 1 vol., illus. 50 cts. 
                  THE FORTUNES OF THE COLVILLE FAMILY, 1 vol., paper, 50 cts. 
                
             
          
          
             
            A New Original Nautical Romance. 
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            THE THREE PIRATES. 
            OR THE CRUISE OF THE TORNADO. 
            
                
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL, AUTHOR OF "YANKEE JACK," "THE BURGLARS," "ADVENTURES OF A SAILOR BOY," ETC. 
            This is a startling portraiture of pirate life, and carries the reader back to the days of the ferocious Blackbeard and the Buccaneers. The character and exploits of those roving demons of the sea are depicted, if we may so speak, with an awful power by the author which, although it thrills the soul with horror rivets the interest to a degree of intensity that we have not seen equalled in any work of a similar kind. The work also contains many scenes of pathos and humor, and in every point of view is one of the best romances of the sea that has been produced in a long time. 
             
               Just published the following Sea Tales:- 
               BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor. Illustrated. Price 50 cts. 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated. 50 cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman. 50 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean. 25 cts. 
               THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Mysterious Tale of the Sea. Illust. 25 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            REYNOLDS' NEW ROMANCE. 
            MARY PRICE; 
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT-MAID. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, AUTHOR OF 'THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON,' 'ROSE FOSTER,' 'KENNETH,' &c. 
            Although the brilliant style of Reynolds must necessarily attract attention to all that comes from his pen, yet the present work has intrinsic merits which invest it with peculiar interest, and must make it popular beyond precident.-Spectator.
             
            This little work, besides the charm of its style and composition, with as Reynolds alone can give, has the mosts of opening new and highly interesting scenes. It lifts the veil of social life, and gives us a glimpse at the sanctuary-the inner temple-which by no means increases our feelings of reverence for human conduct-Critic.
             
            This book holds up a "mirror to nature," where in many a mistress of the family, whose placid temper and sweet-ness of disposition the world never doubted, would do well to regard her own features.-Dispatch.
             
            Though but the memoirs of an bumble servant-girl, this novel is an exceedingly interesting picture of society by a master hand.-Athenum.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
            -"THE LIFE OF ALEXANDER TARDY," THE FAMOUS PIRATE OF THE WEST INDIES, who was the scourge of those seas during the years 1824 to 1827. 
          
          
             
            A ROMANCE OF THE OCEAN. 
            VALDEZ THE PIRATE, 
            OR SCENES OFF LONG ISLAND. 
            
                
             
            BY JACK BRACE. 
            THIS is a well-sustained narrative, interspersed with thrilling and truthful sea-scenes. The author is not only a ready and agreeable writer, but a thorough sailor: and, unlike many who pretend to write Romances of the Ocean, he fully understands his subject. Many of the incidents referred to are facts, especially those connected with that nefarious band, the Fire-island Wreckers. Upon the whole, the publishers offer this book as one of the best and most faithful Sea Stories which has appeared for a long time. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
            
               
             
          
       
   
