
    ----CITATION----
        Giles, Daphne S. (b. 1812). Half-past Ten .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6889
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Half-past ten
             
                 HALF-PAST TEN:   BY  S. G. JENKINS PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR.  1860.     DEDICATION.   THS VOLUME IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED   TO THE FRIENDS OF THE AUTHOR; AND ESPECIALLY TO TH6E WHO ARE GOVERNED BY THE MOTTO OF THS WORK, "DO UNTO OTHERS A8 YE WOULD THAT OTHERS SHOULD DO UNTO YOU."     INTRODUCTION. IT has not been the object of the author of these pages  to lead the readers into the labyrinths of highly wrought  fiction, but to lead them by the side of still waters, where the irradiating face of Truth, the twin-sister of Love, is reflected with all her celestial beauty-elevating man's in- tellectual nature-diffusing through every avenue of the soul those high moral principles which are alone the off-  spring of the "GOLDEN RULE."   CONTENTS. CHAPTER L         PAGE. UE SVIMER-HOUBE, .......... .... .......7. ....  CHAPTER IL OINING INCIENTS, ................ ...............*................ 16 CHAPTER IIL UlI MS31ONARY'B FAMLY, ..    ....... .............. .... CHAPTER IV. N APPROVING CONSCIENCE, .............7.................... ......... 87 CHAPTER V. nE MYSTERIOUS STRANGE, ..................... ... 52 \CHAPTER VL Vk  E PARTY, O .............. .................... ....... . .... a. 70H H 64 CHAPTER VIL ERVERTED PRIPL,.     ........  ...    . 0 CHAPTER VII L HSRABBATEH, . ....... .......7....................      '8 CHAPTER IX IE S ABBATH,................................  9$5 CHAPTER X. CHAPTER XL  CHAPTER IIXL CHAPTER XIV. uP RECOGNITION . .... ..........N.... ........ 1 ORBEAABtNO, ....... ...     ... ..............4... .  141 HE DECIION,........  .............. ... .. ..... ....... ... ,... .. ..      CONTENTS. CHAPTER XVIL          PAG  ' ................................ . ... ........ 168 CHAPTER XVIIL .......................................... . 178 CHAPTER XIX. ...... ..  ............. 186 CHAPTER XX.\ ' .............................    19 CHAPTER XXL  .. . ... ......... . ........................ 218 CHAPTER XXIL     ' ..............................  .. ........... 25 CHAPTER XXIII. HLNGTON, .....2......................... ....... 288 CHAPTER XXIV.  CHAPTER XXV..  ..*  . ... .................    22 ................ .. * \ . CHAPTER XXVL  rIOB, ........................................ . 268 CHAPTER XXVII.    ..... . ......  ...... ....  .............. . 274 CHAPTER XXVIIL. ...8................ ...................... 4 CHAPTER XXIX. ..... . . .. .. ......... .........oe. *.....e eeo e * le e * 4e CHAPTER XXX. ... ................. . . ................. . ,....... 810 CHAPTER XXXI.                         IT was ONs,  .   ..................................... ........ 819  T w as CHAPTER XXXII.                       tumnal n CHAPTER XXXIII.    1                   the sunb ..................................... ............ the slopir CHAPTE        the slopir CHAPTER XXXIV.                       t o0. . ....................... ...................... 88    ture's owr CHAPTER XXXV. ..................... . ............................. 861   their  bro: CHAPTER XXXVL                        stood a 8 'HERE Z BUT A STEP BETWEXN THEE AND DATH," .... 869 CHAPTER XXXVIL                       land's no I WAIT FO  TuEI ......7............................. 876   HALF-PAST TEN. CHAPTER I. THE SUMMER-HOUSE. Now press the spring with thy little hand, And open the casket flies; Enough-look, look ye, my gentle one, And feast thy wondering eyes. Gramercy, child! I marvel not To mark thy glad surprise. Aye, touch them all with thy fingers small, Thou mayest, an. thou list; The brilliant sheen of the emerald, And the purpfe amethyst, And the flashing ray of the diamond, which A rainbow light hath kissed. MARY N. Mos. IT was autumnn-and the mellow light of an au- tumnal morning wreathed the lofty mountains with the sunbeam's golden rays, reflecting their glory on the sloping hill, where the warbling myriads of na- ture's own songsters made vocal the forests that waved their broad branches over the valley beneath, where stood a superb edifice, owned by one of New Eng- land's noblest sons. The avenue leading to Ernest      8 *       HALF-PAST TEN. Marsden's residence, was thickly shaded by native firs, which mingled their healthy perfume with thia atmosphere of unbroken happiness; where love, peace, and prosperity had long held their undis- turbed reign; where the metry laugh of little Lucy Marsden-the heroine of our story-gladdened the hearts of her parents, who fondly gazed upon her fairy form. Gladly would they have thrown back the veil which hid her future from their view. Yet, they had early learned to commit their all to the care of Him whose  ways are unsearchable, and whose paths are past finding out." Lucy loved flowers, and her mother was not sur- prised to find her weeping bitterly, one cold, frosty morning, over the withered branches and blighted buds of a luxuriant Michigan rose, whose tendrils she had so carefully wound round the lattice of their pleasant summer-house. "Look, dear mamma; this beautiful rose which Charilaus Lorrain gave me, is so frozen that I fear it will not bloom next year. If the slip he took to Nottingham only lives, how glad I shall be. He said he should always think of me when he saw it, and I told him that I should never gather a bouquet from mine, without thinking how many happy hours we had spent together.' Here she cast a despairing look at the withered branches, thenjuried her head in her mother's lap, and wept   THE SUMM3ER-HOUSE.      9 convulsively. Lucy's mother listened in silence, ruminating in her own mind how many real troubles might yet sadden the heart of her child. She tid not think best to disturb her till the paroxysm of grief had in a measure subsided. Then, gently raising her head and resting it upon her bosom, she said, in the kindest manner, "This incident, my child, will formn an anchorage-ground for your thoughts in. coming years. Hopes fondly cherished will wither and de- cay ; and you have yet to learn that man appoints, but God disappoints. And may you early learn to ' trust :in Him, whose infallible example was one of meek submission. Can you 'tell me, daing, whose example was infallible?" "It was Jesus', was it not, mamma? Charilaus, the day he left, told me much about Christ's mission to the earth. I do not think I quite understood it all." "What did he say cthat you did not understand?"' "He read to me where Christ took a little child and set it in their midst, telling his disciples uhless they became as this little child, they should in no wise K I  enter the kingdom of heaven." "How did your young friend explain this to you- " said Mrs. Marsden. "'He said we must possess the innocence of a child, and have the same confidence in our. Heavenly  Father, and even more, than we have in our earthly A*      HALF-PAST TEN. parents; as 'God is more willing to give the Holy Spirit to those who ask, than earthly parents are to give good gifts to their children.'" "Spiritual things, my child, are spiritually dis- cerned." Lucy looked confidently into her mother's face, and said, "A few days ago, while bowed here in prayer, I felt ain assurance that the eyes of my understand- ing were opened, insomuch that Christ appeared to be the one altogether 'lovely, and the chief among ten thousand; and not until this morning have I had one feeling of rebellion. I felt very bad at Chari- laus' leaving, and tried all the time to say, 'Thy will be done;' but I knew that I did not always feel it. When I came out and saw our cherished plant with its leaves and tendrils all drooping, my heart rose in opposition to Him who is too wise to err; I could not offer my morning prayer in this chosen spot, as I have been accustomed. I want to be good, but I do not find it as easy as I thought I should at first. Charilaus told me, as you have often, 'That the ways of religion are the ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."' "He told you rightly, for the path of the right- eous groweth brighter and brighter up to the perfect day. My child, you now see as through a glass, darkly. There is a highway thrown up for the ran-   THE SUMMER-HOUSE.     . " x  somed,of the Lord to walk in. Will you,'my dar- ling, walk in this highway?"- "What is meant mamma, by this highway? i "It is the way of holiness, yielding the peaceable fruits of obedience; having your own will swallowed up in the will of your Heavenly Father; seeking the spiritual and temporal good of others." "How can I do this, mamma " "Visit the widow and the fatherless in their dis- tresses; do not shrink from human suffering, but be X instant in season and out of season. You are now a stranger to personal adversity, but it may not always be so. The brightest morning does notralways indi- cate the most tranquil eve; but our lives are .very much what we make them ourselves. The material sun may be enshrouded in darkness, and adverse winds may drive us mid quicksands and shoals, and the helm on which we have for years .rested may be wrenched from our. grasp. But the christian can smile at the storm, and bid the ocean roll; his infalli- ble chart will direct him to the haven of eternal rest." "Your last remark, dear mamma, reminds me of what dear Mrs. Merrit said tl day previous to h3r death. - As I entered her sick-room, she exclaimed, 'I am longing for the rest that remaineth for the children of God.' She requested me to sit down by her side, as she would like to tell me something of     tAt1F-PAST TEN. her former history. 'Lucy,' she -aid, youn will t clearly understand me, when I -say riches make to themselves winga and fly away; but this is so. I was once young, but now I am old. I have not. seen the riglteous forsaken, nor his seed beging bread. Not even the supply which you daily bring mo have I beggdd aC your hands; but I have gone to Him wlho holds the keys of that inexhanstible store-house, and He, has made your kind parents the instruments of supplying my daily wants." Here Mrs, Marsden' interrupted Lucy, by remind-  ing her of her entgagement with her brother Hirome. ' O, yes! I renmeimber!  I agreed to go hunting  with him to-dayy and I have heard his hounds bayitg for the last ten minutes. I wonder lie has not been on our track, hounds and ally before this time. Thi& evening I will tell you more of MrA. Merrit's history, if I am not too tired.' Lucy and her mother returned to the housey both happier than when they left it. There comes Pobert," exelaimed Lucy, leading my pony. Is she not a beautiful ieast She is as whiite as milk."  i "Where is Hirome r inquired Mrs. Marsdeh of Robert. "I suppose he is in the drawing-room, ma'am, read- ing letters, as I have just brought a whole package   is   THE -SUMMSER-OSE.   of them from the office. I think scm* -of -the'm are from Mr. Marsden, as they were miailed at Wash- ingtoln." Mrs. Marsden hastened th join her son. She foundl lifm busily engaged in reading his letters, as she had anticipated. "News from Washington," exclaimed Hirome, -as hisi mother entered., "Is your father well,' inquired Us. Miarsdety as she received her sealed package. "Yes, -twell and happy ; or would be if te wore all therewith him. DonJ t look so-o6ber, Lucy;- here is one for you-yes, two of them, one from Washington and the other from New York*"- Lucy was about to break the seal of her New York'letter, but noticing her brother's tisehievous eyes were reading every emotion of her heart, she broke the seal of the one- from her father, and read  as follows:  "DEAR LUCY: I am glad you found time to write on your birth-day. The incident of your sewitvg-ir- cle of that day interested me. I only regret that I was notable to be -at home. Yet I can faney -how - fifteen little girls would look, all seated round,- se*- Ing on pinafores, pantalitts, and dresses, with i1 the little extra- that are calculated to -1make- little -lil-     HALF-PAST TEN.  dren comfortable. I think your dear mamma and Aunt Lucy, lnust have been very busy that afternoon. "So, you have at last succeeded in teaching little Leoretta three tunes on the piano, which she played for the amusement of your little guests. This, you say, paid you for all the pains you have taken in teaching her; then she is no longer your debtor. But who first suggested the sewing society for the benefit of the poor? The class you proposed teacll- ing this winter you had better defer till spring. The idea is a good one, but our winters are cold, and the children, most of them, would have to walk a long distance. So I think you had better give it up till spring, as your aunt's health is not as good in tlhe winter as in the summer. She will be better able to superintend it then. It is your duty to be useful, and I hope you will not be weary in well-doing. There need be no idlers in the vineyard of the Lord.- If your life is one of usefulness, my fondest hopes will be realized. To see you a drone in society would well-nigh break my heart. Pay the strictest attention to your mother's and aunt's teaching, for your education will be superintended by then. Your mother and myself have resolved to dispense with French teachers, and you are too young to en- ter a boarding-school. Be kind to Leoretta; read to her such books as will be useful to you both. Teach   her all that she is able to learn. I was pleased with the drawing you sent me; it was well executed. I am glad Hirome is to spend a few weeks with you, and also that you like your pony. You will hear from-me again very soon. Be a good girl and write me often.           t 'From your affectionate father."     CHAPTER II. MORNING   INCIDENTS. Seest thou shadows sailing by, As the dove with startled eye, Sees the falcon's shadow fly I O, thou child of many prayers I Life hath quicksands-Life hath snares I Care and age come unawares! "ONGFELLOW. Lch sighed as she folded her letter, and said, "I wish we could all go to Washington this winter." "That's very strange," replied Hirome. "I thought you were for teaching school, a little while ago. I was about making application for admission, as I live in the district. I suppose I might be admitted to the juvenile department, as the teacher will be juvenile. I think that would be interesting-a juvenile school, juvenile teacher, and juvenile scholars." "And you the most ju tvenile of the whole," replied Lucy, rather tartly. "But you are not a resident of Wilmington. You have been two years in Connecti- cut, a student at Yale." "Yes, two years at Yale, and I have got to go back in two weeks more. Home! Home! there is   MORNiaN INCIDEN 'S.     17 i6 place like- Home" he said, looking up. "There comes Aunt Lucy leading little Leoreta." Aitnt lucy siiled asi she entered the room, and said, "I did not know that I was coming to a post- offiCee." ' And a distributing office toc," replied Hirome. "There are three for you, Aunt L -Boston, Phila- delphia, and New York.  Oh I here is one for Leoretta?" 'Hirome, you would make a good post-master," said Lucy. Mrs. Marsden replied, "He acts more like an auc- tioteer.". "Call me what you have a mind to, Lucy, only give me the privilege of reading your New York letter." '"I am sure IVhad as lief yon jwould read it as not, or I can read it to youn.. But, Hirome, you ogliht to be ashamed of yonuself. Ma ha 5waited full five min- utes to read her letters," said-La y. "Lucy, you are mistaken; her eyes have been rivet- ed on me during that time, and she has read me through to page twenty-five, and has come to the sage conclusion that I would make a rst class auctioneer.' "Give us a specimen of your new field of labor," said Lucy. "Here it is, then: Three-anrid-sixpence--just ago- ing-first-rate article-goingLgoing-gone 1" At     HALF-PAST TEN.                      M this he sprang from his chair, caught Leoretta in his arms, and ran out of the room, most unceremoniously tossing her up as though she had been a bundle of newspapers. "There, exclaimed the little girl, you have made me drop my letter; will you please pick it up?" Hirome soon found the lost property, then sat down in the hall with Leoretta on his knee. "'Nowdarling, what shall I do for you, to pay for shaking you so." "You did not hurt me," she replied; "you only made me laugh till I saw stars, as I have heard some folks say." At this, Hirome's eyes filled with tears, and he fold- ed the child close to his heart. "Oh! would that you could see the stars," thought he, as he kissed the outstretched hand that still held the unopened letter. Is it p .osible that this pure spirit must be locked up in impenetrable darkness. HTe looked at the rayless orbs as they were turned toward him, and sighed, as he thought they must forever remain expressionless, and a tear-drop fell from his eyes on the little girl's face, for his heart was kind, and he had more than once wept that the sister of his adoption was blind. The little girl started and said, "Where did that water come from, that fell on my face." "Never mind, darling. Shall I read your letter to you r  "   e If you please." "DEAR LITTLE RETr " (for this was the pet name of the little girD: "My heart; always grows warm when I think of you, my dear child. I long very much to hear you play upon the piano, and was delighted with the bead card-rack that you sent me. Go and kiss Aunt Lucy, and tell her that I am very much obliged to her for teaching my dear little Retta to make so beautiful an article. The colors were beau- tifully arranged; I sat it upon my writing-table by the side of Lucy's drawing, which I have just put in a gilt frame. I send you, in return for it, 'The Child's First School-Book,' in embossed print. Out of this book I hope you will soon learn to read. As soon as you succeed in learniig, I will get you the Bible. You have often wished. that you could read the news- papers to papa, as Lucy does, but I hope you will be able to read something far better than newspapers. ' Holy Bible I Book Divine / Precious Treasure, thou art mine.' "It was this treasure that taught me to love you, and I hope it will teach you to love everybody that is good, and pity those who are not, insomuch, that you will strive to enable them to be good. Did you ever think, darling, that you could become a teacher? Well, you can. Every kind word and act has its influence."    20       r4t-P3AST Trj. "What does influence mean " inquired the little listener. "Well, Retta, if you speak kindly to Jane, the chamber-maid, it makes her feel kind, and do kitd things for you." "I know that is so, for the other day when she broke my china doll, I was so vexed that I did not know what to do, and then she said I was a cross little girl, and that she did not care. Jane has always been kind to me, and when I thought of this, I was very sorry that I had been cross and unkind; then I went immediately to her and put my arms around her neck, and kissed her, and told her I was very sorry that I had been a naughty girl; that I did not care much about my doll, for Lucyecould cement it and make it as good as ever. She kissed me, and said I was an ahgel, and that she was very sorry she had broken my doll; and this morning, don't you think, I fotad a great deal nicer one in my play-house. I showed it to mamma, and asked her if I might make Jane a bead basket, but I shall not tell her what it is for." "Ah! you are a sly puss, but where is your book?" O, my book I my book I will go and get it," and sliding from her brother's knee, she ran to get it, while he sprang just in time to save her from hurt- ing herself against the banister. Hirome opened the door to see if the hunting par-   MORsINa INMDRMEDf . ty was in sigjt o As he did not sm tlhem, he ele th. 4dor, aud jnaed the ladie in the drawing-rom,. The package bentaintng Itt'S book had bee^ opejed, a4 they had all gathered rond, eagerly gazing upon iA awoloed letters, Retta .ppeaing to ook o .r  gerly s any of them, She paed her tiny h nd over itc rough pages, ighing -d eply as e s4aid, "I do not ee anytlin.". At this, evey eye of the little group filled with tears, but tho little girl saw not the tender looks that were cast upon. her. It was evident that she had formed a wroog idea of the blind's readiig, and she had yet to learn that it was through the me- \ dium of the touch that she was to read. MNrs. Mars- den drew the child near he, and turning to the alpha- bet, placed her tfiger lightly on each letter, awd ex- plained to her, a simply a possible, the wanner in  whioh blind ehildren learn to read. The kindness and asurance with which Mrs, Mairsden spok9e to thev child, drove away the ahades of disappointrent, .and the sn shing of hope again lighted up tho eonntenawn of her litle pupil, Au idea suggested itself to the fruitful mind of Aun t Liey, wehich 0oonrelieved pu- pil and teacher A piec of smo oth sheet le4 wa s. brought, on which she soon marked out the three first letter of the alphabet, ming the- egectly like  those iw the book, only a little larg. and more promi-  nent. I;Foretta eimined tfhem, ad with a bopeful     HALF-PAST TEN. exclamation, said, "I can see them now! I can see them now!"Mrs. Marsden asked her if she could find any on the page that were like them. This she instantly did, convincing them that one obstacle was surmounted. The child was much elated, and said she should not be lonesome if Lucy and Hi- rome did go away. "Robert told me I might go ri- ding to-day, on papa's black Prince; but I think I shall not have time. I will go now and show him my new book, and ask him to excuse me." At this, she took the book and ran in search of her old friend. Lucy looked up at her mother and said, "You do not know, mamma, how much I love her." "Who does not love her " replied Hirome. "She is a prodigy, and the world will know it yet." Mrs. Marsden and her sister smiled. "I think she is very pretty, too," said Lucy; "and it makes me so angry if anybody does anything to her that is not right. Yesterday, when the little Miss Oakleys were here, they changed the cup in which her beads were placed, on purpose to have her make a mistake in the colors. I replaced them as quickly as possible, so that she would not know how naughty they were to her." "Was that Bell Oakley?" inquired Hirome, impa- tiently. "The little minx! if I had seen her, I would have shaken her till her teeth chattered. She is older   MORNING INCIDEN   than Retta, and don't know enough to tie her own sun- bonnet  That is so, for I was there a few days ago, and she, came squalling and bawling into the parlor, and said Bridget would not tie her bonnet for her, and Mrs.?Oakley said she would be glad when she was old enough to do such things for herself. 'I really hoped,' said she ' that when I engaged Bridget, I had somebody to take such little jobs off my hands; but she is going to be like all the rest of my servants; keeping the house in an uproar all the time, and not giving me a moment's peace.' - She turned tojme and said, ' Mister Marsden, I wish in my heart I could do with as few servants as your mother does; but this would be impossible,' she rather complacently con- tinued: ' I move in an entire different circle. Over- run as I am with fashionable visitors from the city, I have to keep in constant preparation for company. I suppose if your mother was calculated to move in such a sphere, your aunt-Miss Baldwin-would not enjoy it.'"  At this, Aunt Lucy colored a little, observed only by wMrs. Iaarsden, who always avoided any allusion to her .sister's retired life. Young Marsden talked on: "I tell you, mother- ifyouhad aeon her parl6r that morning, you would not have thought she was always prepared for company. The childreps' hats, caps, and cloaks were scattered     HALF-PAST TEN. in every direction; umbrellas and riding whips had strayed from the umbrella-stand, and seemed to stand sentinels to guard Mr. Oakley's and Bill's smoking caps and gowns, that were spread over a rich satin divan which stood in the corner of the room." "My son, you certainly exaggerate.' "Beg your pardon, mother, I do not; and more than this, Mr. Oakley's overcoat was thrown over the piano-forte, and a pair of hunting-boots stood just outside in the hall. And now, mother, don't you and Aunt Lucy wish you were calculated to move in such a sphere? I came away prouder of you than ever, and I always stand two inches higher in my boots when I compare you and Aunt Lucy with others. I am never happier, than when--" ( You are pinching my ears," said Lucy. "Well, Lucy, it may as well be that as any- thing. It is evident that our mother is not fond of flattery." Marsden looked at his watch. "Here it is half- past eleven o'clock, and they agreed to be here at half-past ten. Here comes Jane with a note for you, Lucy. It looks rather overgrown, for a note, does it not " "Hush, Hirome, it is from Julia Oakley," said Lucy. Lucy ran it over to herself, and then read it aloud:   "DEAR Lucr: Our day for amusement is over, or at least, mine is. Mother has driven me, out and out, to tell you that I must spend the day at home, and who do you think with'? I am so vexed and angry that I can scarcely hold my pen still. I am glad, heartily glad, dear Lucy, that you are not tormented as I am. Don't you think, last night, just after dark -fortunate enough that it was dark--a whole cara- van of uncles, aunts, and country cousins poured in upon us; and what made it still more intolerable for mamma, Colonel Shaw and his lady were with us, and mamma, of course, had to introduce aunt and the whole tribe as her sister and family, from the coun- try,: and they, don't you think, received them just as politely as though they had been dressed in silk and satin. But this was out of respect to mamma. Mrs. Shaw did not seem to notice Aunt Sarah's shilling delaine traveling egress four inches shorter than the fashion. We have got them stowed away in the nursery. Grace had to be said at the table this morn- ing, which made Brother Bill and papa fidget not a little. Cadets, you know, are not generally very re- ligious. Then we had to be marched out right and left, to the drawing-room, where Uncle Goodrich read and prayed a full half hour, uncle looked at the melodian, and asked if we could not sing a few verses. Ma said she thought we would not be able to. You B     HALF-PAST TEN. know that fam a very sweet singer, and could have sung just as well as not, if I would. Bill looked dag- gers at uncle all the while he was praying. "And here comes Bill now with his smoking-gown on, calling it his clerical robe."  Lucy's eyes by this time, were running over with tears. "It is so wicked that I cannot bear to read it. "Read on," said Hirome, " that we may more fully appreciate the teachings of christian parents." Lucy continued:  "I have a Cousin Emma, whom I shall have to be tied to for the next fortnight. She looks well enough, but if you could see how mean and unfashionable she is dressed! I have one thing to comfort me, Brother Bill has got to entertain Cousin Frank. He is about twenty years old, and looks as somber as night-fall; but Bill says he will bring him over. Cadets, mam- ma says, are up to all kinds of mischief. I suppose you will think that I amma very wicked girl, but I cannot help it. The' thought of having our house turned into a Methodist chapel, is more than I can put up with. If Emma understood music, painting, and drawing, it would be a different thing; but, of course, she does not. I presume all she knows, is reading, praying, ;nd singing Methodist hymns. I saw  IORNING INCIDENTS.     27 her looking over my music this morning, and I sup- pose that is all she knows about it. I am glad that they do not belong to the same church we attend, as I should be ashamed enough to go to church with them next Sabbath, for I calculate to christen my brocade silk and silk velvet cape, which was ten dol- lars a yard. One thing more, Lucy, and then I have done. Ma told me last night to tell Bridget to see that there was water in aunt's room, which I of course forgot; and what should aunt do this morning but put on her double-gown and go down to the kitchen with her wash-pitcher for water, instead of ringing the bell, as a lady should do. So Bridget-the de- ceitful thing-took the pitcher and ran up stairs with it. She never does a chore for ma or myself without scolding about it. "There is company down stairs--who in the world can they be? It must be those French ladies who promised to call. They are playing most exquisitely on my five hundred dollar melopean, and here I am with my hair all in papers. I must go and dress, and wreathe my face in smiles, to see them, though I told mamma that I would not dress for company to-day. So good-by. "From your friend, "JULrA OAXLEXt.     TCHAPTER H. THE MSSIONARY'S FAMLY. The path of sorrow, and that path alone     " Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown: No traveler ever reach'd that blest abode, Who found not thorns and briers in the roadl The world may dance along the flow'ry plain, Cheered as they go by many a sprightly strain, Where nature has her mossy velvet spread, With unshod feet they yet securely tread; Admonished-scorn the caution and the friend- Bent all on pleasure, heedless of its end I But He who knew what human hearts would prove, How slow to learn the dictates of his love, That, hard by nature, and of stubborn will, A life of ease would make them harder still- In pity to the souls his grace design'd To rescue from the ruins of mankind, Call'd for a cloud to darken all their years, And said "Go, spend them in the vale of tears." O, balmy gales of soul-reviving air  O, salutary streams, that murmur there  These flowing from the fount of grace above, Those breath'd from lips of everlasting love. CowPrs. As Lucy finished reading her friend's unceremoni- ous letter, dismay and disgust were depicted on each countenance. They were aroused from their nnuleas- ant reverie by a sudden ringing of the bell.     Mr. Marsden answered the sound by opening the      oor,   where he found Bill Oakley, equipped for the day's excursion.  "Come at last; .better late -than never," ex- claimed his young friend. "An unexpected rein- forcement," he continued, " though not a very desira- ble one," casting a significant glance at his cousin, who was seated on his horse outside the yard. ", your cousin Frank; I did not know that he was in town till this morning I " said Hirome, run- ning down the steps at the same time, and givinghis college friend a most cordial greeting. c'T  They mounted their horses, and were soon gallop- ink over hill and dale to the mountains, where they hoped to be rewarded for their day's toil. It was a clear November morning, and nature had wrapped her coat of many colors closely around her, and a cloudless sun varnished the rich hues with which she was beautifully'tinged. The towering Tine gently waved his verdant branches amid the golden leaves of his weaker neighbors, while the gigantic oak, with his brighter hues, stood upon his rocky base like a strong man, armed for a more severe conflict. The earth was thickly carpeted with the smitten of sum- mer's ripened foliage. In the distance, on either hand, a long range of the Green Mountains stood as a strong barricade, bidding defiance to autumn's de- vastations, and the- ruder blasts of winter. The      HALF-PAST TEN. young hunters had reached the spot where the as- cent was too steep for their horses. They dismount- ed and tied them, swung their knapsacks, hunter-like, and took the footpath up the mountains, firing occa- sionally at the tardy robin as she hopped from branch to branch, saying in her native tongue, "I must be off," or the busy squirel as he ran with'his winter's store chirped "Good-by," and snugly burrowed him- self beyond their reach. The partridge beat her pro- voking "rat-tat-too," upon the moss-grown logs that were strewn along their pathway. They at length reached a ledge of rocks, where they, with some difficulty, clambered up and seated themselves. Marsden took from his knapsack a bountiful " luneh," which Aunt Lucy had thoughtfully provided. Oak- ley, as he saw it, exclaimed, "Well, well, Marsden, none but a christian would have thought of that." "Then you do admit that a christian thinks of some good things," replied Marsden. "Yes, yes; there is a little good mixed with every evil; but as a whole, I consider it a humbug. If its principles were carried into effect, the sword would be sheathed in its scabbard and the music of the bat- tle-field would be hushed." At this last expression, the two listeners were as- tonished. But the speaker continued:   THE MSSIONARY'S FAMLY.    31 What would become of our military schQos, the war department, and our naval forces? The atars and stripes of our country are more precious to me than a girdle of pearls; for them I will fight, for them I will die! Where will you find beauty if it is not in a well disciplined army, drawn up in battle array I A man is not a man, unless he is acquainted with military tactics. I am willing to unsheathe my sword which now sleeps restlessly in its scabbard, to defend my country's rights at the cannon'a mouth or the bayonet's point. I ask for no greater honor, no greater glory, than to have my name inscribed in the world's history, as a hero and a conqur- These would be laurels unfading, a diadem imper- ishable!" The young cadet resumed his seat. In his cor- rupted imagination he had already fought battles and gained victories, and a halo of glory encircled his name. "Unfading laurels!" repeated Goodrich, as the speaker ceased4 "Laurels kept fresh and green by the countless tear-drops of widows and orphans, tinged with the blood of fathers, brothers, and sons, bound together with the broken heart-strings of mothers and widows; is it possible that man was made for no higher purpose than this? I tink, Cousin Bill, if the spirit of Washington could spewk,    HALF-PAST TEN. proclaims the rou that man was foe for a far          r may occasiont He would tell you if man con-        may occasion i .  ,  of human pas ae gains a victory more worthy of        of human pas -lory that will be imperishable; that      the attaime i, 1' *contact with aid be made kings and priests unto       contact with ,you would th myself, engaged in a war, but my  ,y ,  Tthat Roman ritual, not carnal. I have' sworn al- the field and  King, and solemnly vowed before        t   an looks above tl to restore man, as far as possible, to nocence. 'Love to God and love to       for the pure a brotherly lov( ,tchword; that love, the attribute of  of peace, un it of heaven, and the food of angels.       peace,  staining battery, and the Holy Spirit      peace virtue )nveying . t        in fertile soil )nveying its pure principles to every its pure' . evr f ibut, as the au its neighbor's good. You spoke of ment and military schools. Should       fragrant and f a universal brotherhood prevailed. So,  pated by peas riend, that seeks military glory alone,     ate y plea military glor: t hasteth to be rich; is greedy forty  writhes in the : elements for its commission; chides nature. - heavens for their impracticability;  heavens for        "Who woi as on human souls in its stormy pas- mine, to brin Lan and nature, and calls itself-the while it giste and place upJ y admire the spirit of bold enterprise       place ug p the gems of ^ its harvest from the land and ocean.  roes who haw imity in the thought and act which         who  *          .  { .   E MSSIONARY'S FAMLY.    33 itrength of human endeavor. We, y give so much to the force and ardor I nm and enthusiasm, as is necessary to .           -. of its object, if it does not come in e Golden Rule-' Do unto -others as  others should do unto you.' Not :tue, whose essencp was bravery in  or in the fight, but that virtue which animality of our nature, and reaches I the lofty; that virtue whose soul is  md whose prayer is for the triumph i, and happiness among men.  In  is flourished like the flower plantf            a:  nd refreshed by the morning dews/ ;, mn- comes and congeals that dew, the  eautiful flower dies in its frosty em- .f en the charms of peace are dissi- 3of victory sung, and eulogiums of declaimed before the people, virtue mbrace of the base sentiments of our^, I dive down into te damps of the up the shining ore which only blinds   '  ,when he might reach up to heaven    .  : his brow a diadem all sparkling with  tue Look at the great military he-  uilt up and overthrown nations, deso- S ao     HALF-PAST TEN. lated empires, and carried indiscriminate slaughter among all ages, sexes, and conditions of people. What. mental faculties were predominant in their minds I Did they possess that charity and brotherly love, which the more they are made to govern our actions the more divine we become? On the contra- ry, were they not excessively ambitious and destruc- tive? Would they not peril the lives of thousands of their fellow men, whenever there was a prospect of increasing their military famnie by some achieve- ment? Could they sympathize ardently with the Suffering, and did they revolt at the thought of being instrumental in destroying the happiness of their fel- low-men? Did they possess that enlarged philan- thropy which compasses the world, and folds within its warm embrace the whole family of man? I take it that the same sentiments which have actuated mili- tary heroes in past times, still continue to charaterize them; that the same influences which have inspired an unconquerable thirst for the glory of the field, still operate with those who are induced to become lead- ers of armies, as well as those who are induced to engage, in any way, in this work of death.. No man of purely exalted feelings can countenance war in any form. No truly good man would shoulder his musket with the intent of shooting his fellow, unless it were to defend his family and fireside from the in-   THE MSSIONARY'S FAMLY.     35 vasion of the foe. Our country, to-be-sare, must be defended; but goodness is its surest defense, its most  impregnable bulwark. The question arising here is, whether peace or-war be the natural state of man; whether the one or the other be more favorable to the general happiness of the human race. I apprehend there are, at this day, few disciples of Hobbes, who ought that hostility was the natural state of man- kind. There is no one so blind to the purposes of Jehovah in the creation of intelligent beings, as not revolt at this unfeeling doctrine. It is granted, then, universally, that peace is the true state of man, and that everything opposed to peace is hostile to the well-being of the human family. It is granted, also, that the spirit of peace is more emphatically the spirit of the nineteenth century than of any prece- ding age. With it the best minds of the times are imbued, and for its universal prevalence they are la- boring. Their holiest desire and most earnest pray- er is, that all mankind may enjoy the earth in qui- etude and love, and unite heart and hand in promo- ting its elevation. "There is, in the souls of our noblest men and wo- men, an earnest reaching forward to the better, and in encouraging hopefulness for the triumph' of good- ness and happiness. Poets are singing their most eloquent strains to the step of progress, and the      HALF-PAST TEN dianthropist lifts up a countenance ;he spirit of Jesus, and throws around is fellows the genial spirit of his AN  A Love .God, Who me And pine I And stai Love God, Had grit But life is And hea Love God, No smile Coldness - The hop Love God, Whk, wl Turn, trust And lov, THE young to his cousin'  to have made to begin; e, "Frank's mai   re God I ye hapless sons of clay, o'er dreams too beautiful to last; flowers that live beyond a day, hat fade not ere the night be past. Love Godl I  re Godl the dreams thy spirit nursed  nd tears and death upon their shrine; His name who loved thee first, is in the love that pleads for thine.  Love God! re God I 'you find no change in Him,  -day that ere to-morrow flies; wither not, nor shadow dim                        ' that flourish far above the skies. Love God. re God I with such a shrine above, rwould pour their worship on the dust I Vi  spirit, to the GOD or Lovz, amortal will repay thy trust. Love God. 4det had listened in profound silence                  : We rgument.- He would have been glad ,me objections, but he knew not where ry point had- been well guarded.  ,r has been kind and persuasive, and 5        - .         5     HAIF-PAST TEN. this makes my defense still more difficult," thought he. "I am unwilling to strike my colors and beat a retreat, so I will laugh it off, and let it go at that." "You are more of a Demosthenes," said Oakley, "than I thought you were; I am unwilling to beat a retreat, but I will for the present leave the field to you." It was evident that the better feelings of the young man's heart had been touched, but his cousin took no notice of it. Being determined to make himself as useful as possible, during his stay at Wilmington, he resolved that the morning's conversation should not interfere with the pleasures of the day; and they re- sumed their sports, selecting such subjects as were calculated to interest each other. Mr. Goodrich was acquainted with the various sciences of nature, and' to this volume determined to direct the mind of his cousin, knowing that all truth which illustrates the Divine character or government, and which tends to produce affections toward God, would remove .the strong barriers which existed be- tween his cousin's opinion and his own. He had suc- ceeded in arresting hia attention, and he knew that there was philosophy enough in religion to convince every reflecting mind that there is a divine reality in it. He meant to convince him, if possible, that the love of God, and the law of God, was one with God; both   working together to elevate man to a sphere of holi- ness, while love to God and love to his neighbor would be the supreme incentive to usefulness. At first this seemed an easy task, but on reflection, ob. stacles insurmountable presented themselves to his mind. But a " still small voie " whispered, "Is there anything too hard for the Lord? I will be a sun and a shield to thee."  He knew that these prom-i.- ses were immutable, and he said in his heart, "I will do what I can." The young men had walked some distance sie by side in silence, each holding undisturbed commune with his own heart. As they emerged from the the rays of the setting sun seemed to spread over na- ture a net-work of purple and gold. As they de- scended the hill, the shadows lengthened along their pathway, till the gorgeous rays of sunset were ex- changed for the sober evening. They mounted their horses and soon reached the highway which led to Wilmington. The silver lamps were lighted up, one by one,each seeming to vie with its neighbor, to imi- tate the blushing moon in the distant east, cheering the hearts of the weary hunters as they bade each other " good night." Mr. Marsden had invited Mr. Goodrich to spend the night with him, but William Oakley objectedto     40       HALF-PAST TEN. this, saying "that he believed that there was some affinity between his cousin and himself." "As matter attracts matter, so mind attracts mind," thought Mr. Marsden, as he dismounted and walked leisurely up the avenue that led to his house. "O, that the truths which have been so faithfully spoken to the friend of my childhood, would form an attrac- tion which would turn the channel of his thoughts to a higher and nobler purpose." Mr. Marsden had of- ten conversed with his friend, but had never suc- ceeded in arresting his attention. He leaned against one of the firs which stood near the door, musing upon the past, and speculating upon the future, not as one withl no purpose in view. From a child he had shown a strong love for the sciences, especially for geology. Being early taught the principles of religion, he had already associated that science with the science of religion; and though he had only attained the first principles of the former, he believed that their union was inseparable. He determined to study the earth's surface, and its various stratas, and prove to the infi- del world the authenticity of the scriptures. How long he would have held this ideal reverie is uncer- tain, if he had not been disturbed by Miss Baldwin, whohad just returned from a visit to a sick friend. "Why, good evening, Hirome. What are you doing here? you look as grave as a philosopher."   AN APPROVING CONSCIENCE.     41 "If I do, Aunt Lucy, you in this fine moonlight look as pure as an angel of mercy, as you are." "Thank you for your compliment; but it is more blessed to give than to receive. If kindnesses are bestowed from a pure motive, both are blest." "Aunt Lucy, the question which troubles me to- night is,. Shall I ever be useful " "You now see as through a glass, darkly, Hirome; the hill of science is looming up before you. I con- fess your path is a rugged one; unmitigated perse- verance will alone enable you to overcome those ob- stacles which now seem so formidable. There are comparatively few, among the masses, who have at- tempted the ascent, and have been crowned upon its summit. There are those who have laid their hands upon the topmost round, and then by some misstep, have fallen to its base, a useless wreck of mind; but I trust in you the fondest hopes of your parents will be realized." "They shall be, dear Aunt Lucy, God being my helper P" "Hirome, we must not stand here any longer; it is too cold. We must finish our pleasant trte-a-tte in the supper-room." Mrs. Marsden said, as they entered, that theyihad "waited till Margaret declared the biscuit would all spoil, and the tea was already as black as soot."     42       HALF-PAST TEN. Hirome, divested of his hunting equipage, seated himself by the side of Lucy. He soon decided that Margaret's biscuit, which she had declared spoiled, would shame any of the popular pastries of New York. "I think you find the tea bad enough, Mr. Mars-  den," said Margaret. It is all decidedly nice; your alimentiveness is too fastidious." Lucy interrupted him by asking, "Where did you find Aunt Lucy?" "I did not find her; she found me. Was not that so, Aunt Lucy?" "Did she tell you how we had spent the day "  "No, she did not. I am anxious to know, and who shall be narrator of events " said Hirome. Miss Baldwin proposed Mrs. Marsden, as she was acquainted with the facts of the case. "I will propose first, then, an adjournment to the parlor," said Mrs. Marsden. They were soon seated in their little parlor around the sewing table. "Now, mother, we are all waiting for an introduc- tion to chapter first." "Well, my son, after you left, this morning, your aunt and myself resolved to call on Mrs. Goodrich and family, with the hope of rescuing them from the nursery. Leoretta, your aunt, and myself, took the   AN APPROVING CONSCIENCE.     43 rockaway, and Lucy went on her white pony. The children enjoyed the ride very jnich. We found Mrs. Oakley with two French ladies in the parlor. Mrs. Oakley was richly dressed. We were intro- duced to Mam'selle Des Barreaux and Madame d'Es- pange. They greeted us with the ease characteristic -of the French, although their English was imperfect. I inquired for Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich, and Emma. Mrs. Oakley appeared somewhat confused, but said she would go and announce my arrival. Sister and myself conversed in French with the ladies, which pleased them very much. They asked me if Madam Oakley's daughter could speak French? Madam d'Espange said there was a beautiful young lady in the parlor when they entered, who conversed with them in French with the utmlost ease, and favored them with several French airs on the melopean, but retired when Madanr Oakley entered. She made no reference to her, therefore they made no inquiry who she was. Mam'selle Des Barreaux said, 'She talks and sings admirably, and I am determined to find out who she is before I leave.' Mrs. Oakley returned, wishing us. to walk up stairs to her sister's rooms; so she accompanied us to her nursery, and we were introduced to Mrs. Goodrich and her daughter.. Her company in the parlor of course demanded her atten-  tion, and we were soon left alone. We were not    4 c:     HALF-PAST TEN. strangers, though we had not met before. I had been acquainted with Mr. Goodrich while he was a student. I had not met him for many years, but had often heard of his labors, with Mrs. Goodrich, among the Indians. "Mrs. Goodrich has every appearance of a lady and a christian. She looks pale and care-worn, though this is not surprising, for she has had the whole charge of a mission boarding-school for the last twelve years, and her labors have been crowned with success. This is the first visit she has made her friends during' that time. Her children have been away most of the time. Emma was with her fathers sister in New York, a student at Rutgers' Institute; and Franklin -you know about him. Mr. Goodrich was a very thorough -student, and graduated with the highest honors from one of New England's colleges. He was qualified to occupy any position in the religious or political world, but he chose the humble and self-de- nying life of a missionary, seeking not the reward of men, but has looked steadily forward toward the mark of the prize of his high calling in Christ Jesus. There are thousands to rise up and call him blessed; and this, my son, I consider a richer diadem, than' ever rested upon the brow of the proudest monarch. When we are crowned kings and priests unto God, our royalty will not be taken from us. Others may   be crowned, and the jewels which adorn their dia- dems may be more numerous, but will not eclipse ours. If the christian, while pursuing his labors, had no higher incentive than the applause of this world, his compensation would be a meager one. His mo- tives are often spoken of as evil, and he is considered sordid and selfish in those acts which have caused him wearisome days and sleepless nights. .This at first surprises us; but when we consider that the world has called the Master of the House 'Beelzebub,' we cannot expect they will treat his humble followers with more respect. The amount of good Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich have done, eternity will reveal." "Mother, did you see Mr. Goodrich?" "No; he had gone out with the Rev. Dr. McNeil. Mrs. McNeil sent her regards to Mrs. Goodrich, and will call to-morrow morning upon her. They will both be here to tea to-morrow, with the Rev. Mr. El- liot and lady, and if the afternoon is fine, I will pro- pose a drive to the lake shore after tea." "Will not Emma be here?" inquired Hirome. "Certainly." "What do you think of her?" "She is modest and unassuming." "What. do you think of her, Lucy?" "I think she is decidedly the most beautiful crea- ture I ever saw. I am sure you will think so when    "      lHALF-PAST TEN. you come to see her. We will leave you, Hirome, to give a description of her to-morrow evening." "Will Mr. Goodrich return to his mission labors?" inquired Hirome. "As soon as his health will permit. Mrs. Good- rich's health is very delicate." "Now, brother Hirome, I want to tell you some- thing, which made me laugh heartily. I will tell it just as Julia told it to me. While we were in the nursery, she sent Bridget to call me to the veranda. As soon as she saw me she hugged and kissed me, and told me that I was the only person in the world that she could talk to just as she had a mind to. 'Now, don't you think,' she said, 'that Dr. McNeil has called here and taken uncle out walking. I pre- sume he would not have done it, if he had not known that ma was of Scotch descent, and I heard him tell uncle that Mrs. McNeil would call to-morrow; so, of course, they will all have to be in the parlor. You know I told you that some one was at the piano, and I must go and dress, so I went and took down my hair. It curled beautifully when I first unrolled it. I knew it would all be straight before night, but I thought I 4  must take it down, and that is the cause of its looking  so now. I then-put on this beautiful green satin and all my jewelry; then I called Bridget, and asked her if the French ladies were in the parlor. She said   AN APPROVING CONSCIENCE.    47 "Yes, an faith ma'am, they have been waiting there this hour, and yer had bether be after going down." So I hurried down stairs. The door was closed, and I stopped a moment to fix my ringlets. Bridget looked over the balustrade, and said, "Go in, honey, an sure ye look just like a goddess "-the first time she ever praised me in )er life. Well, I opened the door, and had almost dropped my curtesy before I discovered L the trick. Lo, and behold! there was no one but Em- ma Goodrich, hammering away on my melopean. I was so angry that I could not speak. I slammed the door, and went up stairs, where I have' been ever since. Now, Lucy, I would like to know what busi- ness she had in the parlor without being invited; and thatisn't the worstof it either. Mamma just told me that when, she first went into the parlor, after Madam Des Barreaux and Mam'selle d'Espange came, who should she find pretending to talk French with them but Miss Em. Goodrich. Mamma said she gave her one such look as sent her from the parlor at once. They have not said a word about her.' Now, what business had she in the parlor, I should like to know? Do't you think she is real saucy? '- "' No, I do not. If I should go to New York or Washington, to my aunt's, I should not think it im- proper to be found in the parlor. I should think it was my place.'     48       HALF-PAST TEN.  "' It is quite different with you. I suppose she was never in a parlor before. She was brought up in n Indian wigwam; that is evident enough, too. Mam- ma has always been ashamed of them. I think brother Bill and Frank will have a nice time to-day. Bill is such an awful tempered fellow, I should not be at all surprised if he challenged him before night. If he does I will be his second.' "' You are a very wicked girl, Julia. I should not think you would dare talk so. I think I shall like your cousins very much. Mamma was acquainted with your uncle when he was a young man. She says he was loved by all who knew him.' "' Well, Lucy, I do not see anything lovely in any of them.' "'Julia, it is because you are so unlovely yourself. I was told by a very dear friend, a few days ago, that my life would be very much what I made it myself; I could be happy or miserable. I feel, Julia, that it is so. The choice is left to ourselves. You have made yourself very miserable to-day, and I fear you have made your friends so. How happy you might have been with4;your Cousin Emma, if you would. How many pleasant things she could have told you i about the Indians. I anticipate so much from her visit to-morrow; and dear little ,Leoretta, how happy she rill be.'   AN APPROVING CONSCIENCE.    49 "'Lucy, I have often wondered how your mother, with all her pretensions to goodness, could be so un- just to you, as to bring into your family a poor little blind girl. I wonder of what use she expects she will be to the world. You never can go riding or walking without she must be along, and she is taught to think that she is just as good as anybody. -Mamma says it is the .most ridiculous thing in the world, your  trying to teach her music, and that you will- never be thought anything of as long as you have to lead her about. I should get so angry at your mother and the child.' "'Angry, Julia, with my mother and dear little sister ' "'Don't go to crying here, Lucy, unless you cry as I do sometimes, because I am angry.'  "'Believe me, Julia, I am never happier than when teaching Leoretta those things which my moth- er thinks will be of use to her. I love her as I do myself. She was once a fatherless and motherless child, but she has found both in my dear father and liother. In this God has verified his promise to te orphan. My dear mamma says that Retta's literal pathway will be a dark one, but she has determined to make light her mental vision. Julia, you might  earn a useful lesson of patience from hIer. I shall eever consider you a friend to me as long as you O           4     HALF-PAST TEN.                     AN tuously of those I love. I think, of       My story,  e the one that is blind. My dear       not know where spiritual blindness is more to be de-      I have beei ,ral blindness. Your mind is set       ly glad that j Lng that would make you happy;        which our parel joynent in those things which bite      our infancy." Id sting like an adder.'            Mrs. Marsdei I Lucy Marsden. Don't you go to        was half-past ni snakes and serpents. If you have      and read the fir thodist preacher, you had better go      around the fan i pulpit and harangue the people as      and an humble r my part I had rather have one Tur-     fered in behalf all the sermons that you or he could 1 would read the bible less and novels d think very much as I do.' ,ver read a novel in my life. I love than all other books; it teaches me to Ys that will not perish with their using. also, that God so loved the world that ybegotten son to die that whosoever on Rim might have eternal life. Let Julia, before we part, as a dear friend e-"Oh that your spiritual eyes might see Jesus as he really is, the Chief usand, and the one altogether lovely'. her, and joined the ladies.'   PPROVING CONSCIENCE.     51  ome, has been rather long, but I d id o stop."                  I nterested, dear sister, and am heart-  1 were able to defend those truths'  ihave so faithfully taught us from  ooked at her watch and saw that it ,. Miss Baldwin opened the bible, Psalm; they then bowed together y altar, and after a thank-offering  onfession, a fervent prayer was of- 'the Oakley family. , '  '  '   i"     CHAPTER V.   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.   Come to thy lonely bower, thou who dost love The hour of musing. Come before the brow Of twilight darkens, or the solemn stars Look fro their casement. Mid that hush of soul 1. Musicfrom ewles' harps shall visit thee, Such as thou never heard'st amid the din Of earth's course enginery, by toil and care Urged on, without reprieve. Ah kneel and catch That tuneful cadence. It shall wing thy thought Above the jarrings of this time-worn world, And give the key-tone of that victor-song Which plucks the sting from death. MRS. SIGOURNEY.   TmE next morning found the Marsdens busily en- gaged, as usual. By the precept and example of Miss Baldwin and Mrs. Marsden, the principles of indus- try were taught to each member of the family. Their house was not filled up with Irish servants, spreading discord and confusion through every de- partment; an American chamber-maid, a dining- room girl, and a cook, together with a gardener, made up the number of their servants. The latter was an aged man, who with his invalid wife had for many years been a member of Mr. Marsden's family. They had patiently borne with all the caprices inci-    dent to her disease, and her life seemed fast ebbing away. Her mind had now become more clear and tranquil than usual. Her faithful husband read, prayed, and conversed with her, while she looked for- ward to the time when the doors of her prison-house should be unlocked, and her spirit be numbered among those who have passed through great tribula- tion, and washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb. One morning she said t&er husband, "Dear Robert, I shall soon leave -you. I have been troub- ling myself a long time for fear I should be a hin- drance to Mrs. Marsden's going to Washington to spend the winter. I know that she will not leave me as long as I live. God alone can reward you and her for your kindness, and my old heart overflows with ' love to you both." The old man buried his face in hishands and wept. She continued: "The time is near at hand, even at the door, when all tears shall be wiped from our eyes. Our frames, which have long tottered and trembled under the weight of many years, will be exchanged for that in- corruptible body which will know no decay. Then we shall possess those mansions which ouradorab Redeemer has gone to prep. for us."       - 54        HALF-PAST TEN. ' Ah I who would live alway, away from his God- Away from yon heaven that blissful abode, Where the noontide of glory unceasingly rolls And the smile of the Lord is the feast of the soul."' Miss Baldwin had been a silent listener to the in- terview of Susan and her husband. She had waited in the fiall till Susan ceased speaking. Then, in a low and gentle voice, she said: "In that day when I make up my jewels, ye shall be mine saith the Lord!" "Dear Miss Baldwin, the Lord reward you for all your kindness. If the cup of cold water which is given loses not its reward, how great is yours." "Speak not of it, Susan; I have ever found it more ' blessed to give than to receive,' but in your case, both are blessed."  Miss Baldwin told her that Mr. Elliot would be there in the afternoon, and asked her if she would not like to see him. "I should, and I have been thinking that I would like to have the Lord's supper administered." Miss Baldwin assured her that her wish should be gratified. The room was put in order for the solemn ordinance. It was a large upper room, neatly fur- nished; a stand filled with the choicest plants in full bloom, stood opposite Susan's bed. A passion vine nearly covered the east window, and a luxuriant myr- tle shaded the window opposite. Robert used to say   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.     55 his poor old wife could/not go into the garden and green-house, so he would bring what he could of them up there to her. These were his especial care, only when Lucy begged the privilege of trimming them. The afternoon brought Mrs. Marsden's company. Mrs. Oakley had been invited, but declined accom- panying them, saying that she would drive round in the evening. Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich were solicited to give their friends a history of their mission labors. They gave an interesting account of the various tribes with whom they had become acquainted, together with their manners, customs, and traditions, with which they were familiar. Mr. Goodrich was a botanist, and had selected many rare and valuable- specimens from the north-west. Mr. Elliot informed the gentlemen of Susan's re- quest, and invited them to participate in the services. They cheerfully consented, and quietly repaired to the sick-chamber. A small table stood in the center of the room, covered with a white cloth, on which the sacramental plate was placed. Mr. Elliot ap- proached the table, and in a solemn and most impres- sive manner explained the nature and object of the ordinance about to be commemorated. A portion of  scripture was read by Dr. McNiel, and Mr. Goodrich     i     BB-;HALF-PAST TEN. offered up a humble and devout prayer. Every eye as suffused with tears as they arose. We cannot ty every eye, for Susan's was radiant with hope; er whole countenance expressive of joy, that joy nly known to those whose hands have loosed their old on earth, and rest on the portals of glory. He 7ho walked amid the golden candlesticks was there, ,nd his August Presence was felt by all. The bread vas blessed and broken, and each partook in remem- )rance of Him, who said, "As oft as ye eat of this )read and drink of this cup, do it in remembrance of ne;" and when the sacramental wine was poured, wery heart seemed overwhelmed with the sense. )f the price which was paid for their redemption. When they had finished, they sang a hymn and went uot. Miss Baldwin and Mrs. Goodrich alone remained with the sufferer, if she could be called such. Leoretta was locked in Lucy's arms during the ceremony, and appeared to see and realize it all. Lucy and Emma took her by the hand and led her to the parlor; where they sang and played the "Dying Christian.? The gentlemen were much interested in examining Hirome's cabinet of minerals. After tea Mrs. Mars- den prposed a drive to the lake. The company were soon seated in the carriages which stood before the large gate. The reverend gentlemen with their wives, together with Mrs. Mars- I.   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.    57 n, chose the carryall, and the young people occu- ed the rockaway. They had driven but a short dis- ace when the sky, which had been clear during the afternoon, became suddenly overcast. D ark clouds tted across the horizon, and the winds howled in the atant forest, causing the giant-oaks to rock to and , and the tall pines, that had long stood as senti- Is, to tremble from their solid base. The blast wled in its course, while the large drops of sleet d rain fell among the seared leaves of autumn. Tlihe ght bird shrieked as it was driven from branch to anch, seeking in vain a safe retreat. Amid the storm e party reached the lake. It was a sceneff singular andeur; the waters were lashed to a white foam; sops and schooners were tossed and driven in every rection, and every moment threatened to be dashed ainst each other. Two beautiful steamboats had ddenly cast anchor, and were dashed ever and anon ainst the pier; and passengers and crew"were alike rror-stricken at the gale which had so suddenly over- ken them. The ladies of the party hurried into, the  tel, while the gentlemen hastened to the scene of nsternation and confusion. As they reached the er, a cry was heard which always causes a sudden ilsation of the heart-"A man overboard I a man erboard!" A heavy swell brought the boat against the pier. . C*                 :      HALF-PAST TEN. Three young men at the same instant leaped upon the deck and darted to the opposite side; the next mo. ment a heavy plunge was heard, and all was still. Oakley and Marsden stood pale as marble, while they peered into the abyss beneath. "He has him! he has him?" echoed many voices; ropes were thrown to him; and as soon as possible, the life-boat was sent to their relief. Franklin Goodrich was brought on deck, bearing in his arms a little boy of six years, whom he had just rescued from a watery grave; and he had the pleasure of restoring him to the bosom of bis almost frantic parents. The father and mother looked those thanks which words had no power to express, and the young man left the deck amid the wondering thanks of the spectators. As the young men walked toward the hotel, Wil- liam Oakley offered his cousin his arm, saying, as he did so, "Cousin Frank, I believe I was led here by some invisible spirit, that I might witness this mani- festation of your courage. You have periled your own life, and by doing so, have showed yourself a a hero, while I, a poor coward, stood trembling upon the deck for your safety." "' Cousin William, you do yourself injustice by call- ing yourself a coward; it was not necessary for but one of us to act. I have done only my duty, and my   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.    59 Heavenly Father was pleased to crown my efforts with success." They had now reached the hotel, where the wet clothes of Mr. Goodrich were exchanged. As the younger members of the party were being handed into their carriage, the attention of the young men was arrested by a tall, finely-dressed gentleman passing hastily by them. His pale and anxious coun- tenance did not escape their notice. Hirome turned to his friends, and said, "That same gentleman passed us when we were going down to the pier. His whole countenance beamed with hope and animation; but now disappointment and despair are written upon every feature." "What can it all mean a " said Oakley. - "There is his large trunk and valise, both marked 'Wilming- ton' "-pointing to his baggage, which Sam, the colored porter, was straggling to load ujpon the dray, saying, as he saw that he was observed by the young men, v I should tink dat ar trunk dar was tram chuck full of cannon balls; it's jis presactly as heaby as tunder. But dat dar shentman down dar, dat jus jump on de steamboat, ji8 gib me, not a half an hour ago, fifty cents to fotch it up, and now, jes a minit ago, he gub me seventy-five cents to tote it back agin. i When I fus seed him, he look presactly like dis niggar, when he fus went to see his snowhall; now, shentmen, you     60        HALF-PAST TEN. jes see, dar he stan on de deck, look jes like de night- mare. God bress his libul soul." At this he started with his heavy burden for the steamboat. The gentlemen resumed their seats in the carriage, accompanied by Mr. Oakley. Hirome gave up his seat by the side of Emma, to her cousin. Emma modestly welcomed him, as he seated himself by her side. "I am very glad, too," exclaimed Lucy; " for your mother and sister are to spend the evening with us, and I think there is nothing to hinder our having a very pleasant time." "Did my mother promise to spend the evening with you, Miss Lucy "  "Most assuredly," replied Lucy. The young man looked perplexed, for he knew that  it was far from his mother's intentions to spend the evening at Mrs. Marsden's, as she had invited a large and fashionable party to her house, and no ex- pense had been spared for their entertainment ; but he forebore mentioning it. The young people conversed upon the incidents of their ride. Hirome told the girls of his friend's rescu- ing the drowning boy. Emma's eyes filled with tears, as she heard of her brother's narrow escape from death. No words of applause passed her lips, but in the silent recesses of her soul she returned devout   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.     61 thanks to her Heavenly Father, for that protection which had been thus manifested. Leoretta wept heartily as her brother told the story. She threw her arms around the neck of her new friend, imprint- ing a warm kiss upon his cheek. What would your mother, siste ousin William, and all of us have done, if youabeen drowned?' Franklin folded the child to his bosom, for he had already learned to love her, and said, "Dear Leoretta, did not our precious Savior say, 'there should not a sparrow fall to the ground without His Father's notice V ' "Yes, Mr. Goodrich, and it says, somewhere in the bible, that ' the waters shall not overflow thee;' and it also says, 'In six troubles I will be with thee, and in the seventh I will not forsake thee? I heard dear Mrs. Merrit tell Lucy so, just before she died." The child looked, or seemed to look, into the face of her friend, and said, "Mr. Goodrich, when you jumped into the water after the little boy, did not God verify his promise to you .? "Yes, darling, every promise for protection has been verified to me. Do you love the bible, Leoretta-? '"                      - "Yes, sir, I love the bible, and dear papa loves it too. He said in his letter to me,  i     HALF-PAST TEN. ther that th ly bible, book divine              her that th ious treasure; thou art mine;'          them over, b s have rung in my head ever since.          I  n mething else that has rung in my head      thought they ,; and what do you guess it is, Mr.        Mr. Goodi any of then w, Retta; what is it?"              rather give awith raised I less, Mr. Oakley, what it is           with raied  Yankee as I am, I do not think I can       "You are "me first what it is, then I will tell     what I thoun The little Led and said, "That would be great        barrassment rome and Lucy both know what it is,        "That is i what do you guess pa promised to give v, Retta, what it was, but I'll tell you Iher give you than anything else. You Sore I tell you."  8 Emma, I guess it would be a pair of Dins, worked so pretty with beads, like ved me the other day." ey laughed heartily. Hirome thought polite way of selecting a present. Leo- and hid her face. She had been de- the Indian specimens, and especially the Lt had not thought, till that moment, that eted her neighbor's goods. Emma told   E MYSTERIOUS STRANGER.    63  were already hers; she had brought  had neglected to present them. rish you to give them to me; I only            . rere very pretty."                    4 h said he was more of a Yankee than  -         R he could guess what his sister had            A 3oretta. "I think it would be a bible,          !  ters." e Yankee, Brother Frank; that is just I would like to give her." h: 1, recovering somewhat from her em- aid timidly, at papa proposed giving me."      CHAPTER VI.   THE PARTY.   If love estranged should once again Her genial smile display, When shall we kiss her proffered lips-- To-day, my love, to-day. But if she should indulge regret, Or dwell with by-gone sorrow, When shall we weep, if weep we must H To-morrow, love, to-morrow.   The virtuous acts and harmless joys, The minutes will not stay; We've always time to welcome them, To-day, my love, to-day, But care, resentment, angry words, And unavailing sorrow, Come far too soon, if they appear, To-morrow, love, to-morrow. CHARLES MACKAY.   THEY had now reached home. With that elasticity and buoyancy of spirit, which is characteristic of the youthful heart, they alighted, and went in. Jane and Margaret assisted the girls in taking off their heavy shawls, which had been of such unexpected ser- vice to them. William Oakley, as he entered the parlor, cast a hasty glance around the room, and said in his heart, "Neatness and good taste are personified in the   65   arrangement of this room; I never saw a room in our house look as well as this." The warm fire and hot chocolate were acceptable to all, especially to young Goodrich, who was very much chilled from his exposure. No one of the com- pany looked like a somber nightfall, for all was cheer- fill and happy. The young ladies sang and played by turns. Emma favored them with several French and Italian pieces, accompanying-the instrument with her sweet and bird-like voice. Her variations were faultless. The rich cadence of every intonation was so unlike what her cousin William had ever heard, that he seemed not only charmed, but spell-bound. Her whole countenance beamed with animation, while modesty gave ease and grace to every motion. All but herself knew that she was beautiful; her dark hazel eyes were brilliant with intelligence; her brow, p re as alabaster, was unstained by the blush of false prde. The rose of health bloomed upon her cheek, unmingled with an artificial tinge; her dark chestnut hair hung in. graceful ringlets over her well propor- tioned neck and shoulders. Fmma's character was a rich combination of virtues, and those virtues she de- signed should make her useful. Her mind was so highly cultivated that she heard with indifference the expressions of flattery from those who were indiscreet enough to call her beautiful. There was one in that    "       HALF-PAST TEN. little company who looked his admiration, but spoke it not; yet he was not so much attracted by her beauty as by her well-balanced mind. He had heard her converse freely upon different subjects, with the ease and grace which never fail to attract. It was evi- dent that Emma's natural abilities were above-me- diocrity. This gem to the unobtrusive admirer was more precious than rubies. The company broke up at an early hour. Mr. Oak- ley took leave of his friends, and walked home, com- muning with his own heart as he had never com- muned before. Dark and misty clouds settled down upon his spirits, and he shed tears of penitence over his misspent life. His step became slower and still more slow, until he at length leaned against the trunk of a large willow which stood near the carriage gate. He looked into the clear November sky, and said in his heart, the moon and the stars, even, mock my folly." He took from his pocket a small bible, which Emma slipped into his hand as he bade her " good- night," and opening it, read' as follows: "When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and stars which thou hast ordained; what is man, that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man, that thou visitest him? for thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor." He read and intellectually   THE PARTY.        67 admired its poetry, but the dark veil which obscured his spiritual sight prevented his comprehending its full meaning. Hie turned to different portions of scripture. The law seemed to thunder such fearful threatenings, that his whole frame trembled with emotion. His eyes filled with tears as he closed the book and placed it again in his pocket, for to him it was a sealed volume. He heeded not the strains of music proceeding from the drawing-room, nor the merry laugh that echoed from the balcony. He had mechanically moved into the shadow of the willow, and sat undiscovered upon the ground. How long he would have remained there is uncertain, had he not been aroused by the sudden cry of "fire" He sprang to his feet, and saw the flames issuing from the east wing of the house! Seizing a ladder which stood against the tree where he had-sat, in an instant he was upon the roof; others followed his example, 2 and in less than ten minutes a few buckets of water had checked the progress of the flames. At the first alarm Mrs. Oakley had fainted. Julia ran shrieking for help from one to another, hindering those who might have been of service, had she been composed. Mr. Oakley had all that he could attend to, for his wife was now in strong convulsions. The family had lost their self-possession, William alone remaining unagitated. He was in every place where he was     HALF-PAST TEN.           . ded, knowing just what to do, and how to act n he reached the spot.                  t] 'he company dispersed in confusion, till the fami- vas at length left alone. The fire had done but     tc e damage, compared to that which had been doney some of the injudicious actors. Damask curtains     he been torn from their hangings; expensive draw-     co ;, together with two large mirrors, had been un-     of ,moniously thrown out of the windows; carpets been torn up; rosewood divans, mahogany sofas chairs, together with stoves, stools, and tables, been thrown into one promiscuous pile in the i. The tables in the dining-room had been upset, iking the .china, and marring and bruising the er plate. Champagne bottles were broken and wn in every part of the room; silent witnesses r were, too, that they had been the cause of all Well might Mr. Oakley's heart sicken as he :ed upon the scene. Turning to William, he Two thousand dollars will not make up my loss." That is so, father," replied William. "I am sor- very sorry." So am I sorry, but your mother would have it she wonld give me no peace, until this party, has bu nt my house and destroyed my furniture, ipv:'/ '(   THE PARTy.        69 :Have we not found, father, that the way of the lsgressor is hard," replied William. The way of the devil I "-accidents will happen he best of folks; but I would like to know where have kept yourself this evening. If you had been , rob)iy this would not have happened; the pany were dissatisfied, and uneasy for the want me one to amuse them."     CHAPTER VII.   PEIVE RT ED PRINCIPLE.   WHO would not shun a cheerless heart With selfishness o'ergrown, In which no kind emotions start, Nor sympathy is known  'Twere better never life to know, Than sow for self and reap but woe! Who would not quell a brother's fears, Or smile on other's weal- Apply the balm. though steeped in tears, Another's woe to heal; When he that cheers where anguish burne Shall feel a four-fold bliss returned   Shall man in selfishness persist 'Mid blessings hourly strown? Shall he for whom e'en worlds subsist, Live for himself alone  No, let us fling our joys abroad, And thus be like our father-Godl    "FATHER, if I have been the means of this, directly or indirectly, I will restore the loss as far as possible," said William. Restore it!" angrily retorted the father; "IteU you, two thousand dollars will not restore it." "Then let us call the servants and bing in the fur- niture that has been thrown into the front yard."   "It is not worth bringing in." "Perhaps some of it is, father." "No, no! not an article of it is worth picking up. I'd like to know what business those bacchanalians had to move anything, till I gave them orders! They have drank twenty-five dollars worth of cham- pagne. I wonder the house didn't burn down over our heads, with such a set of rioters-just your moth- er's choice; her selet party!" William saw his father's trage, and strove in vain to soothe him, by assuring him that it was not the company that set the house on fire. "There's no doubt that it originated in the attic. I saw Joseph carry a small furnace up there, this morn- ing. He said that he was going to use his bullet- moulds. I told him that he would burn the house, but he paid no attention to it. Then I went to mother and told her. She said, 'The boy must have some amusement-for there was no school.' I told her that I thought a boy of his age ought to-be more careful. She talked very hard to me, and said that she should be glad wherr my vacation expired. I thought if my presence annoyed her so, I would seek other company, so I spent the evening at Mrs. Mars- den's, with uncle, aunt, and cousins." '"Confound them all," said Mr. Oakley. "Your mother, out of spite to them, got up this party."     HALF-PAST TEN. William called the servants, and as far as possible they replaced the furniture. They found that it was not marred and bruised as much as they expected, but everything was in a sad plight. Bridget was in her element, tugging away with all her might at a large sofa. She said, as she brushed back her disor- dered hair, "An faith, Mr. Oakley, if ye had sed yer prayers to the holy Virgin' Mary, to-night, all would have been well wid ye. It's my devotion to the most Blessed Virgin that kapes in bloom the rose of my shamrock." Mr. Oakley laughed heartily, but Bridget took no notice, and talked on, declaring that if she had so much nice furniture, she would pray the priest to give her an "Agn2 Dei" for each article. "What the deuced good would that do, Bridget " said Mr. Oakley. "Och, bliss yer sowl, honey, 'twould kape them from falling acc'dunts." -Patrick could not hear such profanity. He broke his long silence by saying; "Rebel that ye are, Bridget, I this night swear by the most holy virgin, if ye die, ye shall not have a wax candle to yer head, to light ye through pur- gatory."   "Hush, yer noise, Patrick! if ye are but there wid yer two eyes, it will answer ivery purpose." Bridget always had an object in view when she gave scope to her Irish wit. She saw that Mr. Oak- ley was out of temper, and was determined to re- store him. She always wanted a friend in every emergency, and as Mr. Oakley had several times screened her, she now determined to repay him. By her wit and tact she kept all at work. Joseph came moping into the room where all were busy, and stood looking idly on, when Bridget discovered him. "Don't stand there, sinner, that ye are," she ex- claimed. "By me sowl! ye are the. lad that will bring the gray hairs of yer father to the grave." "What matters that, Bridget, if he is only safe?" replied Joe. "If I am the lucky one to send his gray hairs to the grave, he will not have to spend half of a day once a month, at the barber's, to have his hair dyed to please mother." "Ye ate an infidel, or ye would not expose family sacrets. -Where will ye find a leddy that does not want her honey to look ypung and blithe; just ye be looking at Patrick's sorrel-top, how like an oven-broom on fire it looks. If he had been after marrying me when I told him I was dying in love, it would have made a deal of difference. I would have skimmed every pot and kettle in the kitchen, but what I would D    HALF-PAST TEN. raise grase enough to make shine his graceful locks. But ah! he is not after thinking how well I love. I, would lose me life for him; more than that, I would ate mate on Fridays. Bliss yer sowl, Patrick! if ye heerd the wail of yer swateheart, help me back with this beautiful divan." Amid the rallies of Bridget they worked to a late hour. William went to his mother's room, as soon as an opportunity presented itself, and found her sleep- ing quietly under the influence of a powerful narcotic which had been administered to her. He then sought his own room, and seating himself by his table, took again from his pocket his bible. He held it long in his hand, unopened. "How can this volume," thought he, "be what Emma said it would-' a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path, and that path grow brighter and brighter, unto the perfect day.'- There is a difference between Emma and myself; she is religiously constituted, while I am a skeptic. If my cousins are better than myself, I am not to blame --their parents and family have watched every ave- nue of their characters; the good and the virtuous have been cherished, and everything that was cal- culated to corrupt or render them unlovely, has been removed; while I have fallen a victim to all the pas- sions of my evil nature, and my heart has become more corrupt then Pandora's gifts." He at length   laid down his bible, and threw himself on his bed, and being weary in body and mind, he soon fell asleep. The' morning brought the news of Susan's death. Soon after William left Mrs. Marsden's, she had re- qeted the family to be called to her room. She "I wanted to see you all together once more, before we part," she said; and turning to Mrs. larsden, added, "I have one request to make." She hesita- ted. Mrs. Marsden noticed this, andin the st ten- der manner said, "Let me know what it is; it shall be granted." Encouraged by this, she continued: "Will you extend the same care to my husband, if it should be necessary, that you have extended to me ' Mrs. aresden answered her that everything should be done to make him comfortable and happy. She grared Mrs. Marsden's hand, in token of grat- itude, remained in silence a few moments, antd then has no terror." ier voice lowering to almost a his per, she repeated, "iCome Lord esus, come quick- move, and the spirit passed so quietly from its time-     worn tenement, that one might have asked, Can this be death?" Robert wept not alone over his deceased wife. Su- san while in health, had been faithful to her employ- e, and when this failed, she was not set aside as one unfit for use and unworthy of notice. Their kind at- tentions had been unmitigated through a series of years; being impressed with the words of our a- vior-"Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of these, my disciples, ye have done it unto me." Susan's remains were borne to Mr. Elliot' s church, where he preached an appropriate sermon from these words: "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, for they rest from their labors, and their works do folloW them." Mrs Marsden walked with Robert, as one of the first mourners. The family was arranged with as much care as it would have been if one of their own kindred had died. Mr. Elliot addressed Robert in the most kind and sympathetic manner. Rbert and Susan had long been faithful members of his church, andhe had often found itprofitable to advise with im, when he needed counsel from those more experienced than himself. Robert possessed a mind above the station he occupied, and it was appreciated by those who knew him. When Mr. Marsden was at home, he treated him more like a companion than a ser- t   vant; while every member of the family paid him as much deference as they would if he had been their grandsire. The family returned home after paying the last sad tribute of respect to the dead. They' conversed upon such subjects as were calculated to console their afflicted friend. ! "    the old creature was dead; How you have endured her so long, in your house, I cannot imagine. It would not have been mamma nor me that would have waited on her as you have; but you have such strange notions of things that nobody can compre- hend you. I should not wonder if old Robert was allowed to sit in the parlor with you now; perhaps lhe is already there. The idea makes me laugh, it is so ridiculous. "Dear Lucy, do not get angry with me; I do not mean-any harm; but if I were you, I would not gratify my mother in all her pious whims. I think she is well enough about some things. It was very good of her to invite Uncle and Aunt Goodrich to spend the rest of their time with her; mamma says her invitation was very timely. I think so, too, for we could not accommodate them, our house is in such confusion. Mamma has not left her room since the night of the fire. She was almost frightened out of her senses; but I don't think she was any more frightened than I was. We have just found out the cause of her sickness. We do not wish the circum- stance mentioned out of the family, but I'll tell you. & I kno. thi you will not mention it. Mamma lost her three hundred dollar gold watch that night, and as soon as she discovered it, went into spasms. The company all supposed that it was caused by the fire,   CHAPTER VIII. CAPRICE. And like a dying lady, lean and pale, Who totters forth, wrapt in a gauzy veil, Out of her chamber, led by the insane And feeble wanderings of her fading brain. Much pains must one expend on one alone, And even then attain it not-but you Have the presumption to assert, that you, Know many without study. SHELLBY. SOON after the return of the family from the funer- al, Jane cautiously opened the door and slipped a let- ter into Lucy's hand. Lucy glanced at the super- scription, and recognized the hand writing to be Ju- lia Oakley's. She begged to be excused, and with- drew to the front parlor, where she broke the seal, and read as follows:  WImINOTON, NOV * 9. "DEAR LucY: I do not know but you will get tired of my letters, but I cannot help it if you do. When I get brim full, I must have somebody to talk to. I heard yesterday morning of old Susan's death. I don't know but you will be silly enough to cry about it-but for my part, I should be glad    so       HALF-PAST TEN. but that was not it; she was afraid that papa would find it out.' This afternoon the mystery was all un. raveled. Bill went down town a little while ago, and happened to drop into the new broker's, and there he discovered mamma's new watch. He made inquiries relative to it. The pawn-broker in describing the'lad that brought it there, gave a full description of Brother Joe. Bill came immediately back, and called Joseph into his room, where he questioned him closely as to how he came by it, or rather, tried to, but he could not get a word out of him. He is the slyest fellow, Lucy, you ever saw. This trait pa and ma have both admired very much. They have often told me that they wished I had half as much secretive- ness as he has; but never mind this. Bill succeeded in getting the money out of his pocket that he got from the pawn-broker. Papa made him go down to the broker's with him, where he was recognized at once. We have got the watch, and pa gave the man ten dollars if he would say nothing about it.- Papa told me that Bill cried like a child, but Joe did not seem to care. I shouldn't wonder if Bill had stolen one and was afraid of being detected, for he has looked as sober as a deacon these three days. I went  into his room this morning, and on his table lay a beautiful silk velvet covered bible, fastened with a heavy gold clasp. On opening it, what name should   CAPRICEa        81 I find there but' Emma Goodrich--presented: to her cousin, William Oakley.' I took it right to mam- ma's room, and showed it to her. She seemed very much surprised, and said, 'I don't see how a- poor girl like Emma Goodrich can afford to make such rich presents.' She gave me a gold thimble-and we have both come to the conclusion that she cannot be a girl of good character. One thing is certain; she did not come honestly by them. As a friend, I warn you not to be too intimate with her. "Dear Lucy, I now rejoice more than ever that she will not attend the same church to-morrow that I shall. "From your friend and well-wisher, ( JUIA OAKLET.."  Lucy laid down the letter. At first her heart was  filled with indignation. She asked herself, "Why does she take such liberties with me? I have never encou ded- her, by answering a single letter. But this I w11 answer." Lucytook her pen and wrote as follows: "SATUmDAY EVENING, November 9. "DEAR JULA: I have just finished reading your letter. The duty I owe to God, to you, and to my friends, induces me to write. I have always been taught that letters from a friend were too sacred for D*    .'     6     82       HALF-PAST TEN. criticism. The reckless manner in which you assail those whom I most dearly love, makes me doubt your friendship for me. If you :write to me simply be- cause you must have some one to talk to, regardless of those principles which I count as sacred, I feel at liberty to lay your letters aside as not worthy of a place among those epistles whose authors have been prompted by friendship to communicate with me. The disrespectful manner in which you spoke of Robert and Susan, I consider originated, in part, from the manper in which you have been educated. We regard our servants as household friends, and es- pecially Robert and his wife.' They were members of my grandfather's family, and were married under his roof, and by himself. Robert was an associate of my father. His advantages have been above what you term his humble ing. Your remarks relatii Oyour cousin filled me with indignation. You    e Emma great ifjstice. If you had treated hei indly, it would have given her an opportunity of telling you, as frankly as she told me, of her aunt's kindness when she left New York to visit you. On the morning of her departure for Wilmington, she gave her the articles you have mentioned, to present to her cousins. Mamma and Aunt Lucy consider Emma a very excellent young   CAPRICE         83 lady. We have invited her to accompany us to Washington. this winter. Relative to the 'notions'- as you are pleased to call them-of my mother, you must never refer to them again in the same spirit that you have beenin the habit of doing; if you do, our friendship is at an end. The pious instructions I have received from one of the best of mothers, is too sa- cred-yes, Julia, altogether too sacred-to be handled with unwashed hands. I hope my gratituae to my Heavenly Father will be commensurate with her pa- tient instructions to me. I would, dear Julia, that you might become the happy recipient of that reli- gion which she teaches by precept and example. How much happier you would be; your mind which is now harassed, by every trifle, would become peaceful and tranquil. Though I am now only four- teen years of age, I have found the way of the transgressor hard. Now, through the merits of my crucified Saviour,I hope my sins have been forgiven, and I:made 'an heir of God, and a joint heir with Jesus Christ.' Oh! that we might both be heirs to that inheritance which is 'incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away.' Then could we say as Susan did,'Death is robbed of its sting, and the grave hath no victory; come Lord Jesus, come quickly!' 'Oh I that we might die the death of the righteous, that our last days might be like theirs.'     84        HALF-PAST TEN. And we must live the life of the righteous if we would die triumphantly, or fall sweetly asleep in the arms of our adorable Redeemer. "From your affectionate friend, "UCY NMARSDEN." l1   OHAPTER IX. THE  SABBATH. Voyager on life's troubled sea, Sailing to eternity! Turn from earthly things away- Vain they are, and brief their stay; Chaining down to earth the heart, Nothing lasting they impart- Voyager I what are they to thee t Leave them all and " follow me."     ' Traveler on the road of-life I Seeking pleasure-finding strife- Know the world can never give Aught on which the. soul can live: Grasp not riches-seek not fame- Shining dust and sounding name! Traveler, what are they to thee I Leave them all and "follow me." Wanderer from the Father's throne, Hasten back-thy errings own: Turn-thy path leads not to heaven I Turn-thy faults shall be forgiven; " Turn-and let songs of praise Mingle with angelic lays; Wanderer I. they have charms for thee I I know they have-then " follow me." \      , C P. ILSLET. THE Sabbath came, and within the walls of Lucy's  happy home peace and tranquillity reigned.     Each member of the family knew that it was the Lord's day, and they all devoted themselves to his service.  They     86 ,      HALF-PAST 'EN. moved quietly about, or sat reading such works as were calculated to inspire them with a devotional frame of mind. Not one looked sad because the Sabbath day had come again, for to them it was the best of all the seven. When the bell announced the hour for public wor- ship, all were ready. Servants were not sent from room to room to look for lost gloves, pocket-hand- kerchiefs, and displaced shawls, for there was a place for everything and everything in its place. This rule being always acted upon in M1s. Marsden's family, kept back those disagreeable frowns that al- ways render the possessor so unlovely. Even Leo- retta scarcely needed assistance in making her toilet. Jane and Lucy sometimes offered to aid her, but she would pleasantly say, "I know right where it is; I can get it." How many unpleasant words and unhappy feelings might be avoided if the principle of order was only acted upon; how many families are thrown into con- fusion through the carelessness of its members; where discord now reigns, harmony might pervade. Little reader, put your gloves in your box, and then put on its cover; fold your pocket handkerchief smoothly and put it in its place, and be sure you have a place for it; do not leave your dress upon the floor, or thrown over the back of a chair, but hang it up. If   TEE SABBATH.        87 your room is in disorder when you are young, your house and your family will be out of order when you are old. Do as Mrs. Marsden does-get ready on Saturday for the Sabbath; thenIyou can go quietly to church and enjoy the services of the sanctuary, as Lucy and her parents did on the day mentioned above. The Rev. Mr. Goodrich had been invited to preach in the morning at Mr. Elliot's church. The Marsden family went to hear him, though this was not their usual place of worship. William Oakley accompanied them, and listened attentively to the truth. In the afternoon Mr. Goodrich preached in Dr. McNiel's pulpit. Julia Oakley fidgeted not a little, when she saw her uncle ascend the pulpit stairs, and directly  before them were seated her aunt and cousins. She scrutinized their dress, but in her heart could not find an- fault with it, only it was too plain. Her broth William came in, and to her -chagrin, passed his own pew, and took his seat beside Franklin. In consequence of Mr. Goodrich's ill health, Dr, McNiel performed the introductory services. Julia whispered to Joseph, "He is not going to preach, after all; I thought Dr. McNiel would not in- yite him." "Mr. Goodrich arose and opening the bibie, said, "I have selected as a foundation for a few remarks,     kLF-PAST TEN. these words: ' I am the first, I am the last, and beside me there is no God."' Isaiah xliv. 6. At first; the voice of the speaker was low and tremulous, but as he proceeded, it became clear and musical. Inspired by the lofty theme upon which he dwelt, he at once gained the attention of his audience, and both speaker and hearer seemed awed by the presence of Him whc was held forth as the "First and the Last." With earnest pathos he dwelt upon the beatitudes of Jeho- vah's omniscience and omnipresence, together with the eternity of his existence. With that solemnity pecu- liar only to himself, he gave full scope to his voice, and exclaimed, "'The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament sheweth his handiwork.' ' Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth know- ledge.' There is no speech nor language where this voice is not heard. 'Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I go from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.' The august presence of Jehovah caused the hearts of primeval in- nocence to break forth in hymns of praise to Him whose presence was life to them, and whose loving   'ITE SABB1ATH.   89   kindness made death a stranger. They were gently fanned by the evening zephyrs as they gathered the rich garlands that knew no blush, till the hand that plucked them had transgressed. As they wandered through Eden's odorous bowers, they held 1apt com- munion with their God. The birds of paradise caroled their hymns of praise among the luxuriant branches of the tree of knowledge. As the happy pair reclined upon the velvet turf, the shft lute of angels lulled to sleep our ancient sire. The deceiver changed him- self to an angel of light, and poured into the ears-of his restless companion those arguments which in- spired her with an unlawful ambition. She hastily arose, plucked the fruit, ate, and gave to her com- panion; broke the law--the only law that was given them to keep; they fell, down, down, the towering heights of innocence. Infinite wisdom, as quick as thought, placed the flaming sword upon the tree of life. The gate of paradise was now closed against them. See! yonder they stand, exposed to death, hell, and the grave. 'Is there no Balm in Gilead, is there no physician there?' Yes; help was laid upon one who was able to save all that would come unto God, through the merits of his Son, who joyfully laid aside the glory he had with his Father, to redeem a fallen race. 'Though thy sins be as scarlet, they can be made as wool; though they be as crimson they    HALF PAST TEN.  ican be made as white as snow! ' None but an omnis- cient and omnipresent God could have conceived -of such a plan. "The great volume of nature bears apon every page of its the declaration of the existence of a God. Whether we survey the complicated machinery of our own beautiful planet, and see the variety, har- mony, and arrangement of all its parts, or whether we contemplate the infinitude of worlds that roll above us in such harmonious regularity and precision, and behold millions upon millions of the heavenly host marshaled out in bright array in the star-lit firma- inent, we find in them all infallible evidences of the infinite wisdom, power, and goodness of the Divine Architect, by whose almighty fiat they were molded from nothing into being. Well may the sweet singer of Israel, breaking forth into the sublimest strains of poetry, exclaim 'Oh Lord! how manifold are all thy works; in wisdom has thou made them all.' "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork.' The radiant im- press of Deity is everywhere, and upon everything we see in this world of beauty and order. There is not an atom or particle of matter in the universe, that does not proclaim the being and divinity of its great Author. Wherever we look-whether at the heavens   above, or the earth beneath--we behold the majes- ty of that all-pervading, omnipresent spirit, which   *Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze Glows in the stars, and blossoms in the trees; Lives in all life, extends through all extent, Spreads undivided, operates unspent' "The unfolding flower, the foliaged tree, the flow- ery mead, the velvet lawn, the verdant hilland dale, the cloud-capped mountain, the illuminated cloud, the murmuring brook, the majestic river, the placid lake, the foaming sea, the blue and boundless ocean the many-colored rainbow, the rising and setting sun the moon and stars, are all faithful representatives of the existence, divinity, and perfection of the. Deity. There's nothing bright, above, below, From flowers that bloom to stars that glow, But in its light, my soul can see Some feature of the Deity, 'There's nothing dark, below, above. But in its gloom I trace his love, - And meekly wait that moment when His touch shall make all light again.'" Mr. Goodrich then exhorted    his hearers to live in obedience to Him who is the "First and the Last," and beside whom there is no God. The speaker then resumed his seat. McNeil offered the concluding prayer and read the hymn- "All hail I the power of Jesus' name,"     HALF-PAST TEN. ito which the choir struck the familiar air of "Cor- onation." The congregation arose; old men and matrons stood up. Their voices for years had not been tuned to hymns of praise within those sacred walls, but now their tongues broke forth in unknown strains,             . "A nA aonffl surprising grace."  The benediction was pronounced, and the congre- gation moved quietly out. But there was one that seemed transfixed "Pon the spot. William Oakley stood unconscious of his position, until his cousin drew his arm gently through his own, and they. walked in silence down the deserted aisle. The car- riage was waiting at the door, and Julia appeared a little vexedat their delay. The young men took their seats, and during their short drive home, a few pass- in, remarks were made by Mr. Oakley to his nephew. They soon drove p to their own door. The company alighted, and Mr. Oakley and Franklin went into the parlor, while William sought his own room, that he might alone indulge his mental agony. Tea was soon announced-William did not answer its call. -Mr. Oakley inquired for him, and Mrs. Oakley indifferently said, "Ithink he is not well; he has not looked well for several days." Julia thought ill health became him very much. "I have seen him several times when he might have    THE SABBATH.       93 been provoked, but he has taken it all very patiently. I tried yesterday to make him angry, by talking as provoking as I could, and all he said was, ' Sister, don't talk so,' and he looked as grave as Uncle Good- rich did to-day when he was preaching.'" Mr. Oakley said to his wife, "( Kate, I think you would have been proud of your brother-in-law, if you had been at church to-day. The best sermon I ever heard Dr. McNeil preach, would sink into pompous nothing compared to Brother Goodrich's -sermon. The house was as full as it could be crowded; yet it was so still that you could have heard a pin drop." "Dear me, papa, that was just because they were so frightened. Why, he frightened me almost to death. A great many of them were as paleoas a corpse. I'm sure mamma would have had spasms if she had been there." Mrs. Oakley said, "Yon know, husband, that Julia and myself are very nervous." "Women are always nervous when- they have an object in view," said Mr. Oakley. "You'll find it so too, Frank, when you have them to deal with as much as I have. I wonder if your mother is as nervous as your aunt?" "I do not know," replied Frank ' I never heard her complain of nervousness. Her health is very poor most of the time; but her physician thinks it-is     "F-PAST TEN. in consequence of hard labor and close confinement, and that, no d4ubt, is the case, as her health has im- proved by traveling." "I am very glad that Sister Sarah's health improves by traveling said Mrs. Oakley. "I ha v told hus- band for the last year that I had no doubt a tour to Europe would improve my own and J0lia's health. New scenes and new acquaintances work miracles, sometimes. Colonel Leveret told Julia, on the eve- ning of the party, that he hoped he should have the pleasure of accompanying her to Europe." Julia tried in vain to blush, saying, "Why, main- ma, you should not have told of it,"' but it was evi- dent that th9 communication gratified her. Mr. Oakley rather sharply replied, "I am willing Colonel Leveret should take you and Julia to Europe if he will only foot the bill; I have as many home de- mands as I tknow lhow to meet." Franklin saw that clouds were gathering in their do- mestic horizon, and in a very happy manner changed the subject, by asking his uncle if he had read the , Comprom ise Bill." Not that he believed in talking politics on the Sabbath, but of two evils he preferred the least. He knew that his uncle would not be able to talk long upon the subject he had introduced, as he was not one who was well posted in politics. The cloth was soon removed, and Franklin sought   William's room. He opened the door gently-Wil- liam lay upon the sofa, with his face buried in his hands. He did not raise his eyes when his cousin knelt by his side, and kindly asked, "Cousin William, what can I do for you?" His long pent-up grief seemed to burst forth, and his whole frame trembled with emotion. He attempt- ed to speak, but his utterance was choked. His cousin leaned over him, and mingled his tears with those of the sufferer. William, in an agony border- ing on despair, threw his arms around Franklin's neck and said, Can you forgive me? can you forgive me?" "Forgive you, William! you have never injured me." "Cui  rnlni   o  a  nontehte    "Cousin Franklin, if you had known the hatred I cherished in my heart when you first came here, you would not say so." "I knew nothing of that; 8o, William, you injured yourself, not me. Seek pardon of God, who is able and willing to pardon you." "I cannot; I have long been a willful transgressor, and there is no pardon for me. I never, no, never, offered up one prayer." Franklin could only imprint one kiss upon the wet cheek of his cousin, as a token of his love; he found    H96ALF-PAST TEN. no words to express the pity he felt for his heart-bro- ken friend. At length he repeated, "Show pity Lord-O Lord forgive." "O that there was pity for me!"William ex- claimed! Franklin agonized before God for the salvation of his friend. He strove to point him to the Lamb of God, and to convince him that he was the sinner's shield. He read to him such scriptures as he thought would inspire him with confidence, for he was con- vinced that he was truly penitent, and only needed that faith which is so hard for the convicted sinner to exercise. Franklin now thought it best that his cousin should be alone, that he might have an opportunity to exam- ine the word of God, which would be to him an in- fallible guide. Hle knew that the Word would be a lamp to hit feet and a light to his path. He there- fore took leave of him for the night.   i.         Ci BCIIAPTER X. THE COV:AIt   LT. Message from heaven I I joy to receive thee; Word of the Lord! I will ever believe thee; Star of Redemption I I seek for thy ray: Mandate of Mercy thy words I obey. Tidings of peace thou hast brought from above, And thy pages unfold unlimited love; - Thy story and precept, thy promise and song, Shall live in my heart and burn on my tongue. Companion and guide, instructor and friend, Illumine my pathway till error shall end, Till thy radiance fade 'mid eternity's blaze, And thy song shall be lost in the seraphim's praise O spirit of truth' eternall-- I render thee thanks that this message is mine. As Franklin walked to the house of Mr. Marsden, his thoughts were busily occupied with the scene he had just witnessed. He was unmindful of the rude winds that howled amid the leafless branches; nei- ther did he observe the clouds which gathered like mountains piled upon mountains, and he saw them notj as they parted from right to left, advancing and again retreating, like two mighty armies contending valiantly for the field; 'the moon, one moment hiding behind a sable cloud, the next shedding a. sickly light E    , '        7     IIALF-PAST TEN. over the yellow foliage with which his path was strewn. His attention was at length arrested by the gurgling of the little brook that ran in front of Mr. Marsden's door. He entered the house, and found the family quietly seated in the sitting-room . Mr. Goodrich at once inquired after his nephew, for he had observed his emotion during the services of the sanctuary. When Franklin told what had transpired, they were affected to tears , and as they knelt before the altar, fervent and importunate were the prayers they offered for ailliam. They held the enp of bless- with trembling. That evening, they solemnly ing w    I enlngnx dysould be de-voted to covenanted that the next day should be devoted to fasting and prayer for his salvation. lt Wiliam spent a restless night, and slept not til naturewas exhausted.- He atrose early in the monng but did not go down to breakfast. Mr. Oakleesent Bridget to see if he wished anything She obeyed her mistress, and said, as she entered te breakfast- rooln, Ithink yerleddyship had better be after gong up yerself; and sure he is looking very ill. Mrs. Oakley made no reply. As she passed the toast to Julia, she said, "William will not be able to go to-morrow; I am afraid he is going to be sick." Ic 11 tell you, mamma, just what I think ails him. I think he is in love with Emma Goodrich . "    THE COVENANT.       99 'I have the same disagreeable thoughts myselfj Julia; but I cannot think your brother will lower him- self enough to give such an idea a thought." "Lower himself I " angrily repeated Mr. Oakleyr. - She is as good as he is; yes, and a great deal bet- ter! ' Both mother and daughter were much offended. A few angry words were exchanged, when Joseph in- terrupted them by saying that he knew all about it. "I think he is becoming a Millerite. He walked the floor all last night, groaning and praying, as he found it most convenient, I suppose; and for the last two or three days, every time I have found him alone he has been reading the bible." "I think he is not becoming a Millerite it is more probable he is becoming a Methodist, and last night was his first watch-meeting." 1Mrs. Oakley laughed and said, "I think he had better wait a few weeks longer; -then he could sing the old year out and pray the new year in. But it is not very likely that a young man of his pride of character will .keep religious very long, I will go and see him." She left the table and went to her son's apartment. William answered her rap. As she opened the door, her son-her eldestwn--stood before her, unlike what she had ever seen him before. He was pale, and his     100       HALF-PAST TEN. eyes swollen with weeping. He led her to the sofa and sat down by her side. ",Mother, I am glad to see you this morning. I was just trying to rally cour- age enough to go and seek you. I think you were very kind to come to me." "My son, I have always been to you one of the best of mothers, and all the compensation I ask of you is,to be a man and not a novice." "Mother, I do not think I quite understand you." "Then let me explain myself, by asking one or two questions; but first, promise me that you will not get angry with me as you usually do when I talk to you." William, scarely able to keep from bursting into tears, said in a voice choked with emotion, "Forgive me for the past, and trust me for the future. I know that I have been a disobedient son; but will you for- give me?" "Of course I shall forgive you. It is evident that you are becoming a religionist; is it because you are in love with Emma Goodrich, you, being aware that her parents would not allow her to marry one who was not a professor? I think as I have always taught you, that a moral ife is all the passport we need to heaven-all the one you need to her heart. As soon as you graduate, you will have a lieutenant's commis- sion; and this, together with a good 'character, will   TIE COVENANT.       101 introduce you to the most fashionable families of our country. Do not play the part of a monk any lon- ger by making your room a cloister." They were interrupted by Bridget's entering the room, bearing in her hands a large tea-board filled with chocolate, rice-cakes, a bit of sirloin, nicely broiled, with crackers and other little delicacies that she thought were calculated to tempt the palate of William. "This is for ye, Master Oakley. I saw that ye was after looking very ill, and not to yer breakfast; so I went'to the kitchen and told Jemmy, the cook, that he was my honey, and that I would marry him on next St. Patrick's day, if he would let me get yer breakfast without broom-sticking me out. of the kitchen." Thank you, Bridget; you are very kind; set it on the table." "God bliss yer dear sowl, it's the first thanks I have resaved since I came to live with yer infidel mother, and may the good Lord. cause the rose of yer sham- rock to bloom, and give ye success when ye goes to bom-shot the British; for they have set the hale of their fut upon the neck of poor Ireland, and they'll do the same, if they ca toAmeriky-the divil will have thrm all yet, for their wickedness." Mrs. Oakley seemed evidently much vexed, but she had found that it was better to' have Bridget's     102       HALF-PAST TEN. good will than her ill will; so she simply requested her to leave the room. "There is another of my trials. I would not keep her in the house a day longer if it was not for your father, and still I do not know as I could do without her. She does more work than all the other servants; and then I should not like the name of discharging her. She has lived in 'Squire Larabee's family five years, and Mrs. Larabee expects to have her again, when she returns from Europe. She often has the impudence to tell me that I am not the lady Mrs. Larabee is. If she continues her impudence, I cer- tainly shall have to discharge her, for I am not one that will humble myself to servants. I have always been so unfortunate with my help; I never kept one over six months. There is Mrs. Marsden-she keeps the few that she has year after year. I am sure she would not have borne from Jane or Margaret what I have from Bridget this morning. I am always care- ful to get those that are well recommended, and they generally do well for a week; but after that, they are so disobliging that it seems as if one could not live with them. Now, how I shall get along this winter, I am sure I don't know. Julia is going to New York to spend the winter. Colonel Leveret in- vited me with her. I hoped, when I got Bridget, I could leave the charge of my family with her. I   THE COVENANT.    .   103 want you to get a short furlough this winter, as there will be more fashionable life in the city than usual; and I have all the anxieties of a mother that you should be benefited by it. Now eat your breakfast, my son, and cheer up; drive away all your sadness; look upon the bright path before you, and the un- fading laurels that will crown your profession." Mrs. Oakley then left the room. As she. closed the door, the young man groaned in spirit. How different this interview had been from what he de- sired it. He had not seen, until then, the chaos of his mother's heart. Scarcely conscious/ of what lie did, he took his hat and went out. He wandered over the distant fields, and from thence to a far-off wood, with apparently no object but to bury himself from the world. Without raising his eyes he seated himself upon the trunk of a fallen oak. Until tlen his mind had wandered in a labyrinth of thought, without 'a landmark or a guiding star. His whole soul seemed paralyzed. He mechanically took his bible from his pocket, and as he opened it, his eyes fell upon these words: "If the righteous scarce l be. saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner ap- pear." The book fell from his hands, and a conscious- ness of his own guilt again rolled over his soul like molten waves. In an agony of despair he clasped his hands, and exclaimed, "Where, where shall I ap- ;:r     104 -    LHALF-PAST TEN. pear, O God? Even now thy presence is too terrible for me. O, that the rocks and these mountains would fall upon me and hide me from thee; but this is im- possible. Even now thou art sitting in judgment against my soul" e                      .   CHAPTER XI. ALONE, YET NOT ALONE, . I love the vine that gently twines Around my little bower; Which here and there a cluster bears And many a fragrant flower. It shades me from the noontide heat- With fragrance fills the air; It is a sweet, a. lone retreat- "It is the bower of prayer." It teaches me that Christ, the vine, Doth his true branches prove, By showing here the fruit they bear, With richest flowers of love. MBs. CATHEINE WALKB.  WILLIAM fell upon the ground and buried his face  in the fallen leaves. He supposed that there was no ear to hear him nor eye to see him, but His who had "declared the heavens to be unclean in his sight, and charged the angels with folly."  But there was one that sought that lonely retreat, who had long endured the storms of life; whose form was trembling under the weight of years; and whose head was blossom- ing for the grave. That retreat was a consecrated spot to him; to his soul it had long bqen the vesti- bule of heaven.  On this morning he sought it, that he might hold converse with God, and fill his mouth E*     F-PAST TEN.                       AL( with arguments for the salvation of him who now lay prostrate before him. He moved gently forward, and knelt unobserved beside the stricken penitent. He bowed his head so low that the November winds lift- ed his silver locks and mingled them with the dark brown, wavy tresses of the youth, and whispered, "Why art thou cast down O, my soul; and why art thou disquieted within me. Hope thoh in God, for thou shalt yet praise him. His mercies are not clean gone forever." These last words roused the young man, and he raised himself up; they fell upon his ears, yea, upon his heart, like the mellow tones of an angel's lute. He looked upon the pale features of his aged friend, but in his bewildered astonishment he scarcely re- cognized him. No words escaped his lips. The old gentleman took his hand within his own, and said, "Jesus hath said, ' Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. My yoke is easy and my burden is light."' The lips of William were now unsealed, and he said, "My burden is greater than I can bear!" With a face beaming with celestial hope, the old man said, "If you are convinced of this, go, my son, and cast your burden upon the Lord, and he will sus- tain you. This precious promise was especially for you."   'Amazing grace and boundless love That has borne me up from hell."'   "Do you think so?" "Yes, I know it. Jesus died that you might live; if you will break off your sins by ighteousness, and your wickedness by turning unto God, your salvation is sure." The young man's bosom heaved with emotion, while he replied, "The sWord of Justice has justly been unsheathed against me." With a voice of paternal kindness the old man an- swered, "That is even so, my son, but Mercy, bleed- ing Mercy, has returned it to its scabbard, and now it is wreathed with the ambrosial flowers of Calvary." Hope lighted up the countenance of the young man, as he exclaimed, "Lord, I believe; help thou my unbelief." They arose from the ground on which they sat. William turned to his aged friend and remarked, I have lived twenty years, and God has not been in all my thoughts, while I have been the partaker of his bounties; and never, until the last few days, have I thought seriously from Whence they came. All this time I have been paying my devotions to the shrine of worldly pleasure, seeking alone for those honors which bite like a serpent and sting like ah adder; and now I am convinced that it has been      ALF-PAST TEN.       " "We can all say that my son; but I hope and sin- cerely believe, that you feel that There is a fountain filled with blood, Drawn from Immanuel's veins, And-sinners plunged beneath this flood, Lose all their guilty stains.'  "Yes, thanks be to God who hath given me the victory, I now believe that the blood of Christ cleans- eth from all sin; and now my soul rejoiceth, though it is with trembling, that I have been taught by the Spirit to seek an interest in his pardoning mercies." Tears ran down the cheeks of the aged man while he exclaimed, "My soul rejoiceth with exceeding great jqy, 'that the lost is found and the dead is alive.' When I came up to this place I little expected to meet you here-the object of my prayers. For sixteen long years I have almost daily sought this lonely retreat, that I might better hold communion with my God, though sometimes, when the snow was too deep or the weather too inclement, I have been obliged to stay away." "It is a long walk for a man of your age to take daily." "I come a nearer way than you think of; Icross the brook and come up the ledge. Follow me just out here a little way, and I will show you my temple and my altar." William smiled, and followed him.   THE BOWER.   I was a stricken deer, that left the herd Long since; with many an arrow, deep infixed, My panting side was charged, when I withdrew To seek a tranquil death in distant shades. There was, I found, One whohad himself Been hurt by archers. In his side he bore, And in his hands and feet, the cruel sears With gentle force soliciting the darts, He drew them forth, and healed, and bade me live.    IT is natural for the christian, if he is a lover of na- ture to seek some rural retreat where he can undis- turbed look from nature up to nature's God. With the blue dome as his canopy, the ever-varying clouds tinged with the purple morn, or burnished with the golden rays of the setting sun, as his drapery, he gazes in ilent admiration, while an unseen hand gath- era them up into rich festoons, and fastens them with a sunbeam, or while that same unseen hand rolls them together as a scroll, or gently lays them aside and throws over nature the sable clouds of night, that man, wearied with the toils of the day, may take his seeta undisturbed by the busy throng. If he looks upon the lofty forests or the verdant fields and cloud-     F PAST TEN. the broad expanse of wa- capped mountains, or upon the broad expanse of - ters--Ocean, sea, rivers, lake, and rill-he lifts up his heart to God, adores the Divine Architect, and ex- hclairts, toIn isd om hast Thou made them all!" Such were the feelings of our aged fiend as he and William turned to the path, or rather trail, almost hid from view by the falleneave Thy  alked a few yards; then ascended a smal1 hillock which brought them within the precincts of one ofthe love- to branh; the  woodhe old liest alcves that William had ever seen  o lhne  through, liothr d  of gol d v in it n stleman smi led as his comnagion looked admovndly ly ta   fogentley wavn  te sle  the wall and aroundupon the evergreens .that forin roof. The wild eglantine had eli f r  om bran to branch; the woodbine, no less amubitious, had woven o thick a netork that thte sun's ras tonl shone through like threadsof gold, givig iet fan- reti lppearaoce as the strong branhes moved seow- tanevr ro,  tig lt     e slender tendrils as the droo end fro m the paret stem. The old gentle- man p ointed to a large poplar, aroUn  hi  gan rose haaa entwined i uttattee   t was then ago, I set out that tree. t I MY wrist, and in my own heart t are Volumes of interest associated with that rose. never look at it without thinking of other days and other scenes. Yes; I ever think of m y cherub boy, and almost fancy that I look again upon his golden   THE BOWER.    Ill   ringlets, tossing them back as in days of yore, when he wa wont to greet me on my return. Yes, even now IJseem to look upon him as he nestled in the boso of my. sainted Alma." William turned to his friend and remarked,' I was not aware that you had been married but once." "You know as yet but little of my history," said the old man. "But sit 'down upon this bunch of moss; you will find it as comfortable as a velvet otto- man, and I will take my old seat beside my altar," at the same time laying his hand upon an elevation of earth, covered with a thick green moss. Looking pleasantly at William, he continued: "I told you I would show you my altar.  Here it is. My chair, you see, is rather rural; it is woven of roots and vines; the trunk of this large pine, that waves above us, forms its back. The only inconvenience I experience from this seat, is in this mischievous myr- tle by my side, which sometimes stoops so low as to brush the top of my head. Do not those snow-drops blend sweetly with the deep green leaves of my con- stant myrtle " "William bowed his affirmation to the question, and remarked, "I am waiting anxiously for your story." "Strange, that you should rather listen to the long,     "2        HALF-PAST TEN. tedious story of an old man, than to look upon this beautiful bower!"  ' It is beautiful, very beautiful," replied William. "If you think it so, I will sing you a few  she- fore I begin my story." In a voice clear and musical as that of a youth, he sang, "Dear bower where the pine and the poplar have spread, And woven their branches, a roof o'er my head; How oft have I knelt on the evergreen there, And poured out my soul to my Savior in prayer. "How sweet were the zephyrs perfumed with the Pine, The Ivy, the Balsam, the wild Eglantine, But sweeter, O sweeter superlative were The joys that I tasted in answer to prayer. "'Twas there my dear Savior oft deigned me to meet, And bless with his presence my lonely retreat; Oft filled me with raptures and blessedness there, Inditing with heaven's own language my prayer I " William's eyes filled with tears as he thought how soon that voice would be tuned to the melodies of heaven., He seemed to see him standing among the blood-washed throng who had come up through great tribulation, apd whose robes were made white in the blood of the Lamb, while his heart inwardly rejoiced that the eyes of his understanding had been opened to view spiritual things, and anticipate that reward which is laid up for the righteous, even " that inheri- tance which  is incorruptible, undefiled, and that    THE BOWERS       13 riiEowr.        113 fadeth not away." lHe rejoiced that he had at length found the pearl of great price. As the echo died away in the distance, their devo- tions were mutual. Within those rural walls this aged servant of the Lord had often mused upon the past, while chanting to himself--," Lift up your heads ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and let -the King of Glory in. The King of Glory, who  TheLord of osts." In referring to these words on this occasion, he re- marked that they were particularly dear, as they were taught him by his venerable father. I cannot remember when Iwas not able to repeat most of the chantsused in the Episcopal service. My father was an Episcopal clergyman; I therefore was early taught the doctrines of that church. At the age of fourteen I was confirmed and made a participant of its ordinan ces, but my religion was wholly theoretical. Year after year I went through with the external discharge of these duties without realizing their spiritual bear- ing. My education was Superintended by my par. ents till I was sixteen; then I entered college, where I remained two years. "My health failed, and I was obliged to return home. Soon after this my dear mother was taken * sick. I was at once convinced that I was to be de- prived of her guardian care. She lingered but a few 8     "4       HALF-PAST TEN. ,days. Her death was triumphant. A few moments before she expired, as I was kneeling beside her bed, she laid her hands already cold in death, upon my head. Lifting her eyes toward heaven, radiant with hope, she committed me to a covenant-keeping God. Taking my hands in hers, with her dying breath she exclaimed, 'My Father! my Father! the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof,' and then fell asleep in the arms of her Savior. "I sought my room, and tried to pray that the man- tle of her faith and love might fall upon me. But alas! my obdurate heart was unmoved, save by a sordid love. Love to my mother made me ask for a better good, unconscious of the priceless offering that had been made on Calvary for my salvation. "A year after, my mother's death, I again entered college, with a determination to excel in my literary career. I was proud, as well as ambitious. A few months after my return I met, at an evening party, the eldest daughter of my professor, a beautiful young lady of sixteen years, who had just returned from a boarding-school. She was highly accomplished, and our friendship soon ripened into love. My frequent visits to her house soon awakened the jealousies of h er father. His remonstrances with her were in vain. He sought an interview with me, and forbade me his house, and all intercourse with my dear Alma; ac-   TaE BOWE 1R.  cusing me of resorting to dishonorable means in gain- ilg her affections. I at first tried to reason with him; it was in vain. His accusations were as unreasonable as they were unfounded. At length I Jst my tern- per, and threw back his retorts with the same spirit in which I was assailed. I had not yetlearned that it was better to suffer wrong than to do rong. is excitement was so intense that he flourished his cane over my head. ,As quick as thought I laid him pros- trate at my feet. ie had accused me of base and dishonorable acts, but that blow was the first dishoz.- orable act I had ever committed. I was horror- stricken at what I had done, and Iraised him as soon as possible. Th noise of his fall had brought the students, with several of the professors, to my om; I Was h:foI the i   e professors, to my room- I  was before them in disgrace. I offered no apology, though I knew that I had been provoked, and accused unjustly, and by one for whom I had cherished a liigh regard. I was expelled without ceremony, and left the place immediately, with a crushed spirit, blighted hope, and wounded pride. I   did not seek an interview with her whom I would have given worlds to have seen, but for one moment. I hoped, i" my father, to ind one sympathizing friend; ut he was convinced that justice had been done me. His manner was stern, and his pity-if he had any-.-was tY if he had anwas     116 HALF-PAST TEN. cold beyond endurance, and I resolved at once to leave home. "The morning previous to my departure, I received a letter from Alma. I anticipated its contents, yet dreaded to know the reality. -It was in substance like this: "'MR. RAm)OLPH: Sir-Your cruel and dishonora- ble conduct has made it my duty to break my en- gagement with you. I consider myself fortunate in discovering your character at so early a period. It would be madness in me to connect my fate with one who has lost his self-respect, and brought an indeli- ble stain upon his character. My heart is now as destitute of love to you, as the iceberg that floats in the polar sea is of warmth. "ALMA WINEsoTT.' "The last sentence seemed to sever my heart-strings. I crushed the letter in my hands and threw it upon the floor; and as I paced the room, my brain seemed on fire. I said to myself repeatedly, 'False, unnat- ural girl! if you have been fortunate in discovering my true character, I am more so in discovering yours.' The thought of forgery came to my distracted mind. I picked up the crushed letter and recognized her own hand, and crueLas were its contents, I pressed it to my lips. 'These sentiments cannot be her own; a will more powerful than hers has coerced one who,   THE BOWER.        " but a short time since; confessed her love with all the innocence and frankness of a true heart, to one whom she now considers unworthy of a polite rejection.' "I needed now the syppathy of a kind friend, but my father's coolness forbade my approaching him. I found in the Hon. C. C. Burer, that sympathy that I needed. 4sought him alone in his library. He was well acquainted with Alma's penmanship. It was evident to him that it was written under the 'most in- tense excitement. Laying his hand upon my shoul- der, he said, "' Believe me, my dear friend, the hand with which these words were written, was stronger than the heart that ddictated them; these are the sentiments of her cruel father, but not hers. Does your father accom- pany you to Montreal, to-morrow?' "I told him that he would not. "'Then I will, and see you safely on board the Britannia. Nowgo home, my dear boy, and remem- ber that envy punisheth itself.' "I told him that I suffered too much mehtal agony to wish evil to befall my bitterest enemy. Early next morning I bade adieu to my father, and the grave of my mother. As the stage rattled along the high- way, I cast one long look upon the village of Ran- dolph, where I had been loved and respected. It really seemed as if the long ranges of mountains.     HALF-PAST TEN. looked frowningly upon me; the gray rocks, and even the hills, and tall pines, refused to cheer my drooping spirits. I did not desire them to beckon me back, for I had resolved never to revisit my native village. "My friend did not allow me to indulge long in moody silence. He questioned me reltive to my outfit, and make several suggestions relative to my tour, which afterward proved of great value. "'We shall see you again in five years?' said he. "I told him that I should spend that length of time in Europe, and should then return to the United States, but never to Randolph. He bent forward, and in a low whisper said, 'Remember my friend, it is not in man that walketh, to direct his steps.' You will yet revisit Randolph, and thank God for the opportunity.' "Our drive was through a wild, mountainous re- gion. We were several times obliged to alight and walk up the hills, that looked almost perpendicular in their ascent; then with chained wheels we de. scended into the valleys, where the mountain streams flow in undisturbed quietude. The old stage-coach, crowded to its utmost capacity, never ceased to be an object of curiosity to the rustic tenants of the vale. The farmer leaned upon his hoe as we passed, peer- ing at us from under his broad-brimmed straw, or   I   shading his eyes with his callous hand, that he might take a closer view. One of o"ur company, who was a sailor, Possessing more wit than refineent, often rallied the buxom'lass, as she filled her polished pail with the sparkling contents of 'The old oaken bucket-the iron bound bucket-- The moss-covered bucket, which hung in the well.' Her saucy irony made him draw back his head into the coach, as a mud-turtle shields himself from his antagonist.' "We did not travel in those days at railroad speed, and it was dark when we reached the city. As the carriage rolled along the almost deserted streets, the lamps shed a pale, sickly light upon the dingy walls. "The stage presently stopped, and the steps being let down, Mr. Bumer alighted, tapping me with his cane, and at the samle -time remarking, 'This is our home for the night.' On looking up, -I saw we were in front of a beautiful mansion. I asked if it was a hotel. "'This is our hotel--the house of Mr. Rawson, my brother-in-law, he replied. "Our ring was soon answered by a servant. e were announced, and most cordially received by the gentleman and lady of the house. We remained there two days. My friend was much pleased with.     IALF-PAST TEN. the ship and the accommodation it afforded. In one of my tete-a-tetes with him, he told me that my father felt less unkind than I anticipated. 'He expressed much gratitude when I told him that I  should see you embark.' He staid on board with  me till the last bell rang, and then took an affectionate Hark to the voices of the Sea! leave, and leaped upon the wharf.  It rolls its billows round; On rocky strand and summer shore, ,Its,3LOUP belrges break nd roar, With wild triumphant sond.' There-rise its walls of snowy white, Like avalanches in the light Of Heaven's serenest day. There in its gulf of deepest gloom Lies many a 'one, unfathomed tomb  H*- I              "orm  the halloos of nchor-weighing, ranging of tackle, unfurling of psairs, and the scampering to and fro, I sought the cabin. To my joy I foInd it vacated, the other p gseugers being on deck, waving their adieus to friends on shore. Ithr ew myselfinto corner, andflound relief in tears, for my feelings had become as sens/t/vs a child's, past pleasures and past sorrows eah causing them to flow more copiously The Cation of the vesselin my excited state so on made me sick . Ith obliged to seek the number of my hor t f Which I tookipos session, and was unable to sit up  fr tw  eek   F-PAST TEN. "At length I found myself convalescent. On opening my trunk one Sabbath morning, I found a letter directed to myself. I recognized my father's hand and broke the seal. It breathed the spirit of kindness, assuring me that he cherished no unkind feelings, but felt a deep solicitude for my spiritual and temporal welfare; and he begged me to keep him informed of every incident worthy of note. tle wished me to visit Oxford, Westminster, Edinburgh, and Glasgow; directing me to different points of in- terest in Ireland, France, and Germany. To each of these places he had given me letters of introduction to men of distinction. This last act of kindness gave me new spirits and invigorated health. "After ten weeks rolling and tossing on the rest- less ocean, we cast our anchor at Liverpool-that grave looking old town, with turrets and towers, whose endless docks, and quays, and warehouses are among the wonders of the world. Ships from almost every nation were to be found in her port. "I spent but two days there and then hastened to Nottingham, to visit a friend of Judge Buner's, to whom I had a letter of introduction. He received me to his home and his heart. Mr. Page, my new friend, was over seventy years of age. He was a na- tive of that place. He sometimes displayed a little vanity in speaking of his ancestors, but I found, on   becoming acquainted with the English, that this was a peculiar habit of theirs. The old gentleman and myself were never tired of visiting Nottingham cas- tle, and talking of its national history. "William, I would give you a history of that place, but it would take too much time," said the old man. "Are you not gettin4 tired of my story " "I am too much interested to think of weariness," replied William a Pray proceed, Mr. Randolph." ('Not until you promise not to call me Mr. Ran- dolph again." "I cannot promise that." "Well, I know. that children and old people :are- alike stubborn, sometimes. f "After a few weeks I proceeded to the great me- tropolis, with my aged friend, Mr. Page. We were entertained by a wholesale lace merchant, the eldest son of my host. While there, I became acquainted with several gentlemen and ladies who were to start in a few days for southern Europe. 'I was invited to make one of their party, and I resolved at once to avail myself of this opportunity to visit that interest- ing part of the world. One of their company was a young man from Scotland, about my own age. He possessed great buoyancy of spirit, with strong and ardent attachments. He had a large fortune entirely at his own control. At first, I received his friendship       F-PAST TEN. with caution; but his kindness and liberality soon made me lay aside that reserve which I at first mani- fested toward him. He had a strong love for the fine arts, and was, in fact, a natural genius. "We visited Florence and Rome. He spoke Italian with great ease, and insisted upon my- becoming his pupil in the study of that laguage. In order to facilitate my study, we conversed in Italian. It seems but yesterday that I was with him in the great cathedral at Rome, examining the statuary, measur- ing its colossal pillars, and looking upon its spacious domes. For the first time, w were impressed with the faith and devotion of the Romish church. The Ceitones of the vesper-bell often called us from our beds at midnight, to witness the long procession, all bearing in their hands a taper to light them to the vestibule of devotion. The deep stillness of the mid- night hour was scarcely broken by the rustle of a gar- ment, or the low, monotonous tones of the holy func- tionaries, who read or repeated, in an unknown tongue, the prayers of their devoted followers. Our  curiosity led us several times to witness this ceremo- ny. It was often impressively solemn. I spent a few months in that city with a friend of Mr. Lind's. "We went from there to Florence, where we staid with a relative of Mr. Lind's; and from thence we visited St. Petersburg. I learned more of Czari8m,   THE VOYAGE.      125   there than I had ever known before. At first, we were surprised on witnessing the strong attachments of that people to a government which seemed so en- tirely despotic to us; but on a more intimate ac- quaintance, we found that it was more a misguided zeal for their religion, than for their politics. The question was more than once impressed upon my mind, 'What will a man give in exchange for his soul?' I traveled with my friend through many parts of Rus- sia, meeting Czarism at every point. I had thbn been absent two years from home.  "We visited Austria and spent a few days in Vi- enna. Mr, Lind's business at that time called him to Germany. Our leisure moments were never wasted. Mr. Lind was a laborious student; he did not travel for the sake of killing time or spending money, but he was, generous, insomuch that he seldom allowed me topay a bill. , "We visited Paris on ourreturn. For the firsttime, when we arrived there, I felt as if I was homeward bound. There we spent a month, and then started for Edinghurgh, the home of my friend. He told me that his mother was entertaining foreign visitors, but evaded all questions, direct indirect, relative to them. I had made him my cnlidant; and he had also confided in me. From our first acquaintance he had manifested a great solicitude for my welfare.     126       HALF-PAST TEN. His experience was more than mine. Possessing great powers of discrimination, he was never at fault to understand what others would be obliged to take time to investigate. I had found him to be a faithful friend, and a traveling companion of intrinsic worth. A strong predilection for home and country, made his joy almost unbounded as we neared his native hills. We did not allow ourselves to be detained, but hastened to Edinburgh. As the carriage rolled along the pavement, my friend was busily engaged with his own thoughts. Mother, sister, and friends were anxiously waiting to greet him, and his mind was evidently filled with reminiscences of the past. As his eyes met familiar scenes and familiar objects, his countenance was expressive of the deepest feeling of his magnanimous heart. Comparing his situation with mine, caused me an involuntary sigh, which roused him from his reverie. He seized my hand with unwonted fervor, saying, as he did so, "Cheer up, my Yankee bby, there is good in store for you. Your heart which has so suddenly become frigid, will soon grow warm." "We soon stopped on a large square in front of a beautiful edifice, and my friend bounded from the carriage. I recognized the place from his description -it was his home, his own happy home! Believe me, William, the recollection, even now, causes. this   TaE VOYQAG.       127 old heart to palpitate. A more cordial welcome never was given than we received. Mr. Lind, as soon as he could, inquired for their visitors, and was informed that part of them had gone to England, and the oth- ers were spending a few days at their summer resi- dene. "My friend and his mother proposed a drive to Willborro', teir country seat. I puposed remaining in the city, as my time must be short; but Mr. Lind said there would then be two less to go, for he would not go without me. I therefore reluctantly cosent- ed., Our drive was through a beautiful portion of country. Many of the residences were superbly grand; ever and anon we passed neat white cottages, almost hid from view by the surrounding shrubbery. Every portion of tillable ground was in a high state of cultivation, and hill and valley were covered with the grazing herds. "Mrs. Lind possessed a mind far above medioc- rity; there was a lady-like frankness in her cordi- nality. A strangercould not feel himself as such long, in her society. In the history of her country she was well informed, and familiar with its various changes of government, "Our road lay along the foot of a high promonto ry; at length rounding its point, my eyes rested upon a summer residence, surpassing in beauty and taste     128       HALF-PAST TEN. anything I had seen during our drive. There was at- tached to it an extensive park. The sound of our vehicle scarcely disturbed the timid deer and wild gazelle, as they grazed upon the green sward. We drove up the embowered avenue and stopped at the carriage gate. On the countenances of the two ser- vants who met us, was depicted marked joy at meet- ing their master. Mr. Lind returned their cordial shake of the hand, and Mrs. Lind led the way to the house, where we w-e' received by her eldest daughter.   CHAPTER XIV. THE RECOGNITION. Swiftly our pleasures glide away, Our hearts recall the distant day, With many sighs; The moments that are speeding fast We heed not; but the past--the past- More highly prize. -These are the records, half effaced, Which, with the hand of youtl, he traced. On history's page; But with fresh pictures there he drew Each fading character anew, In his old age. "ONGsFLLOW. "MR. LIND inquired for the other ladies, and was informed that they had gone out with an equestrian party, and would not return until sundown, as we were not expected till the next day. After a lunch, Mr. Lind proposed going in search of them. We took a few turns on the veranda, then mounted our steeds and were soon galloping over hill and dale, after what he called 'The fugitive party.' On com- ing to the fork, he proposed taking one road and I the other. On finding myself alone, I was at once buried in a reverie of thought. The past came up before me, so abstracting my mind that I knew not F*            9     130       HALF-PAST TEN. whither I went. My attention was at length aroused by the distant sound of what I thought approaching horsemen; and on looking around I found myself in a thick wood. In an instant, a horse, saddled and bridled, dashed by me. I knew by his appearance that his rider had been dismounted. I put spurs to my own beast and sought the unfortunate rider. I had gone, however, but a few rods, when'I found a lady prostrate upon the ground. I sprang from my saddle, and on raising her up, I found her insensible. I carried her in my arms to a small pool of water, and soon succeeded in restoring her to consciousness. On opening her eyes she looked me full in the face, and instantly fainted. I was much alarmed, but suc- ceeded in restoring her a second time. She trem- bled violently. I wiped the dust from her face with the handkerchief which I had dipped into the pool. She did not again raise her eyes to mine. I gazed upon her pallid features, for they were as familiar to me as my own. At that moment I would have given worlds to have had her again look at me. I ventured, at length, to speak to her. At the sound of my voice she again raised her eyes. I could not long be at a loss-it was Alma, my own dear Alma! "Words have no power to express the surprise and joy we both experienced. Our interview was soon interrupted by the arrival of the rest of the comr   THE RECOGNITION.      " pany. Alma had only time to tell me that her father was in England, and was expected at Mrs. Lind's in a few day'." I   was expected at Jffrg stin a few days."  "Mr. Randolph," said William, "you have not told me whether Alma was injured by her fall." That is so, William; but I will tell you now that her side was seriously hurt, and that circumstance gave me frequent opportunities of being in her soci- oty. Mr. Lind was much gratified in being the means of bringing about our meeting. I think his surprise on that day was equal to my own; for he had long been separated from one whom be held dear as his own life, and had unexpectedly met her. -Lady Orlean, his betrothed, was one of the equestrian party. She was a lady of rank but without fortune. His mother, being influenced by his sister, had ob- jected to his marriage; but had now become recon- ciled, and even strongly attached to her, insomuch that she waited anxiously for her son's return, that his wishes might be consummated. "We were again seated in her spacious parlor- Alma lying pale and languid upon the sofa, with Lady Orlean sitting by her side, and, of course, Mr. Lind and myself not far off. I had learned from Alma that her father, Professor Winescott, found it neces- sary to procure a withdrawal of his professorship to save himself from being formally removed. I dread-     F-PAST TEN. ed to ask her how I stood with him; yet she knew that I felt anxious to know, and told me that he had never mentioned my name since the day he obliged her to write the letter before referred to, while in a state of partial insanity. I proposed leaving Will- borro' before he returned, but Mr. and Mrs. Lind would not hear to this. They resolved on going to Edinburgh, accompanied by Lady Orlean and Al- ma, if she was able to ride. In less than a week she had so far recovered that no danger was anticipated in her going to meet her father, from whom she had been separated several months. In relating to him her narrow escape from death, and her being restored to consciousness by a stranger, he asked, "'Did you not find out, my daughter, the name of the stranger?  "Mr. Lind anwered this question by informing him that it was an American friend of his. 'He is the noblest young man I have ever met. I hope to- morrow I shall have the pleasure of presenting him to you. I am proud of him as a friend, and you, no doubt, will be, as he is your countryman.' "' Mr. Lind, if I am to meet my illustrious coun- tryman to-morrow, I would like to know his name and address ' "'He is the only son of the Rev. R. Randolph, Rec- tor of St. Paul's Church of Randolph, - State.'   Alma sat trembling by her father's side, expect- ing the dark waters of his soul would gush forth, and in her weak state she thought they would overwhelm her; but how happily was she disappointed, and how fully convinced that she had a prayer-hearing and a prayer-answering God, when she saw a smile light up his dark, mournful eyes, and felt his arm encirclingher waist, drawing her closer to his heart. With perfect composure he said, "'I have the honor of his father's acquaintance, and am not a stranger to him. Mr. Randolph's grand- father was several years governor of the state in which he resided, while my father was his lieutenant. If Alma is able to ride, we will go to Willborro' this afternoon.' "I was sitting upon the veranda when they drove up the avenue, and was unobserved by them. Aided by my opera-glass, I was able to scan their features. I saw no cause of alarm, and therefore ran down the steps, and met them as though there never had any- thing happened. Professor Winescott advanced, ex- tended his hand, and took mine cordially, saying, "'I trust, Mr. Randolph, we meet as friends. I confess myself to be the aggressor. Shall the past be forgotten?  "'I acknowledge my imprudence, and deplore the     ?-PAST TEN. act which caused me to be expelled from your in- stitution.' "'I repeat to you, Mr. Randolph, that I wag the first aggressor, and by that rash act I have blighted your hopes for life. If I could recall that, or compen- sate you, I would, most gladly.' "' Compensate me ' I repeated. "Alma was leaning upon the arm of her father; he placed her hand in mine, and said, "'Will this hand, and the heart which you have long possessed, atone for the past? "I folded her to my bosom, while both of us wept tears of joy, as we leisurely talked over the past. I think that friendship never was more fully restored, than it was between me and my teacher. He had been induced to visit Europe for his health, but be- ing convinced that he had but a short time to live, he had thought it necessary that hi should return as soon as possible. "I Mr. Lind resolved, for his wedding tour, to visit the United States, and he was anxious that I should qccompany them; but I had an offer unexpectedly oi a situation in a large wholesale mercantile estab- lishment, which I thought would be of advantage tu me at some future period, and I therefore resolved to accept the offer. Mr. Lind and his bride, together with Professor Winescott and Alma, set sail, and had   been but a few weeks at sea, when it became evident to all that Professor W. could not survive the voy- age. His physical suffering became very great, but his mind was calm and collected. He gave, Alma such advice as was necessary relative to his business, and then requested Lady Orlean-now Mrs. Lind- to administer to his daughter's necessities during the remainder of the voyage. 'He seemed conscious of the suffering that his death and burial at sea would cause his daughter. Her affectionate kindness to him during the trials through which he had been called to pass, had so gained his heart that he was willing to make any sacrifice that would promote her happi- ness in any degree. At the death of his wife, Alma, notwithstanding her lacerated spirits, poured those healing balms upon the bleeding heart of her father; and when the literary world frowned upon him, shef threw around him the broad mantle of charity, shield- ing him from the arrows of deep-seated prejudice. This she could do with ease, for the law of kindness was written upon her heart. "On the night of her father's death, he requested her to make the house of Judge Burer her home, assuring her that in him and his excellent wife she would have all that sympathy and kindness that friends could bestow. "His last hours were not accompanied with that         136       HALF-PAST TEN. suffering which his friends anticipated; without a struggle or a groan, his spirit took its flight to the spirit-world. Th6 burial service of the Episcopal church was read, and with all the solemnities of a burial at sea, his body was consigned to a watery grave, there to rest till the morning of the first res- urrection; for he, no doubt, will have a part in that auspicious day, as he left this world with a well grounded hope in the pardoning blood of the adorable Redeemer." "I should have thought you would have married Alma, and returned with her," said William. "William, my pecuniary circumstances would not admit of this. I spent over a year in London, and then went to Charleston, South Carolina, where I took charge of a large school, with a salary of one thousand dollars a year. I there received news of my father's death. I was then making preparations as fast as possible to again visit him; but his sudden death deprived me of the privilege of our ever meeting. I hastened to Randolph, settled up my father's es- tate, was married to my dear Alma, and returned to Charleston. I found her a valuable aid in my school. I had a delightful home just out of the city. To us it was the Eden of love. "In less than a year we had a cherub boy to share our felicity, who grew to be all that we could expect   THE RECOGNITION.     137 a child of his age to be. We mutually atched the development of his intellect, and dwelt with doating fondness upon his riper years. "When he was two years old, business calledme to New York. At that time the yellow fever prevailed to some extent at the south. I tookleave of my para- disaical home with the fond hope of returning in a few weeks. But alas I I did not see the dark cloud that was about to burst upon me. I retued, but all was gone--Alma and my baby-boy were gone!" The old gentleman wept as- though he had Irank the bitter draught but yesterday; but soon re ver- ing himself, he went on with his story "I could not endure the place where I had drank such large draughts of domestic happiness, Fnd I left the south immediately. Like a mariner without a chart, I was cast upon the dark waters of fortune. Yes, without any purpose in view, I wandered I knew not whither. "About that time the war of 1812, between Great Britain and the United States, was declared. Not- withstanding my aversion to what I had always con- sidered a barbarous practice of settling national dif- ferences, I joined the army and ,was engaged in the memorable battle that was fought on Lake Erie by Commodore Perry. I stood by his side when a grape- shot from the British took off the thumb of my left     138       HA LF-PST TEN. hand. My comrades fellvarolmd me. My wicked heart often asked me why it was that I the most wretched of them all, was spared. Many there were made widows and orphans that day; and Ihave some- times thought, were all the tears that were shed in consequence of that war gathered, they would float the fleet that so prodly sailed on the blue waters of Lake Erie. "I left the army a soon as possible, and engaged to teach a country school in one of the villages of New England. I early become acquainted with Es- quire Marsden, the father of our friend Ernest. I was his first tetacher in mathematics. My ambition for life seemed buried with my dear Alma, and I was content to teach school in a district or in some pri- vate family. "' y home for many years was in the family of my friend, Esquire Marsden, and his children grew up, in part, under my tuition. I then was married to Susan Lester, with whom you have had some ac- quaintance. I have been employed as a gardener, and ny aversion to society has been so great, that I would gladly have been considered as a servant. Through all the various changes of my life, I have found the religion of Jesus Christ sufficient to sustain me; and when the dark waters of affliction gathered about me, and its billows seemed to have passed over, I   THE RECOGNITION.        139 have found His Everlasting Arm  able to uphold me. Jesus, to whom you have this day given your heart, has power to keep that which you commit to his charge. My story has been a long one, much longer than I expected. Let me tell you before we leave this bower, this beautiful bower, probably never to meet in it again, that tIe rash act of my youth, though deeply repented of, changed the whole cur- rent of my fortune.  It gave me for years an unsta- ble mind, and caused me to act without a purpose. Take warning by my history, my young friend, and commit your way to One who is able to direct you aright. You have trials to encounter; you need a Divine Teacher to keep you in the path of duty. I have but a little while to remain in this world, and I often apply the words of another to myself. "'Only waiting till the shadows Are a little longer grown, Only waiting. till the glimmer, Of the last day's beam is flown; Till the night of earth is faded From the heartC once full of day; Till the stars of Heaven are breaking Through the twilight dim and gray. "'Only waiting till the reapers Have the last sheaf gathered home; For the summer time is faded, And the autumn winds have come. Quickly, reaper, gather quickly The last ripe hours of my heart, Forthe bloom of life is withered And I hasten to depart.     ,F-PAST TEN. "'Only waiting till the angels, Open wide the mystic gate, At whose portals I have lingered, Weary, poor, and desolate. Even now I hear their footsteps, And their voices far away; If they call me, I am waiting, Only waiting. to obey I ",'Only waiting till We shadows Are a little longer grown, Only waiting till the glimmer Of the day's last beam is flown;- Then from out the gathering darkness, Holy, deathless stars shall rise, By whose light my soul shall gladly Tread its pathway to the skies."' - I    CHAPTER XV.   What's in the warlike waving plume, And in the gorgeous standard's fold, That beckon on to envied doom, Or glorious victory, the bold? What's in the brazen trumpet's bray, Or in the spirit-stirring fife, And thundering drum, that call away The generous to the deadly strife? Compared with all the certain guilt On murder stamped by righteous law, The countless tears, the rivers spilt Of blood, the crimes and woes of war! Compared with that impetuous tide Of sin, which flows in dreadful wrath; The hatred, scorn, and poisonous pride That surely follow the battle's path I   TAPPAN.   THE old gentleman and his young friend, William Oakley, walked leisurely down the descent, each busy with his own thoughts. They were scarcely con- cious where they were, when their attention was ar- rested by the lor, mellow tones of distant voices. They listened in silence one moment, and the old gen- tleman's countenance lighted as the familiar words fell upon his ear,    "2       HALF-PAST TEN. He pressed the hand of his friend and said, Bright in that happy land Beams every eye." "Do you know that voice, William? It is Leoretta singing."  "( Is it possible? ( How sweet her voice sounds. Is Leoretta a christian, Mr. Randolph?" "I have no doubt of it, William. Lucy has been very faithful with her, even before she indulged a hope for herself. Shall we not go and join the children?" They followed the narrow path which led them out of the wood, and found Lucy, Leoretta, and Emma at the foot of the very tree where a few hours before Robert found William suffering all the anguish of an awakened sinner, and where the dark cloud had rolled away from his horizon. The girls seemed not a little surprised on discovering their friends. As they ap- proached, Robert stooped and folded Leorotta to his bosom. Lucy picked up the hat that Leoretta's bon- net had knocked off, and with her slender fingers she gently smoothed the gray locks, as she carefully placed it upon Robert's head. "I think, children, that you have wandered a long way from home; were you in search of me " "O no!"Lucy replied; " we had been in the house all the forenoon, and we thought a ramble would do   FORBEARANCE.        143 uS good, and Emma proposed going to the woods-; but when we got here she was afraid to go in among the trees, for fear we could not find our way out. This large stump and that long tree afforded us such a-nice place to rest, that we have been here for a long ^time, reding and singing. We little thought we were waiting for you, all this time." While the children were chatting familiarly, Wil- liam was relating the glad tidings of great joy ttat had been borne by angels to the upper sanctuary, where the Celestial Recorder had, in letters of indeli- ble glory, inscribed his name in the Lamb's Book of Life. Emma mingled her tears of joy with her cousin's, as she listened in prayerful sileceto the tidings her sol had so deeply longed to hear. That spot had become consecrated to all, and before leav- ing it they sang together--making melody in their own hearts-the doxology, so familiar to the christian: "Praise God! from whom all blessings flow, Praise him ye creatures here below, Praise him above ye heavenly host, Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost." R obetraised his hands toward heaven and invoked the blessingof his covenant-keeping God upon the young group Around him. The conversation during the walk home was befitting the circumstances that had brought them together. Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich     "4       HALF-PAST TEN. met their nephew, and offered those congratulations with which the experienced christian meets the young convert. Franklin and Hirome, hearing nothing from Wil- liam, had gone to Mr. Oakley's to inquire for him. Mrs. Oakley received them with coldness, and said that she had not seen her. son since morning, but it was probable that he had gone out into the field to practice the tactics of his school, as the time of his vacation had nearly expired. "He is exceedingly anxious to excel, and to become all that I desire him. to be." "Mrs. Oakley, what is that," inquired Hirome. "A military hero," she proudly replied; "not a sordid religionist, understand me. If the man is what the mother makes him, I have raised the stand- ard of his honor so high that my infliPnce and teach- ings will be crowned with success. My daughter is all that I could wish her to be, and my son is pro- spectively such." Here Franklin asked his aunt if she intended to spend the winter in New York  I think I shall not, myself, but Julia has accepted Colonel Leveret's invitation, and I shall do all in my power to make her the reigning belle in the fashion- able circles in which she will move. Her father will do doubt complain of the expense of her outfit, but I   ?      'FORDEARANSCE.  can bear that better than to see my children drones in society. We hav  but one life to live, and I ad n eterined to have that devoted to my children' best interest." "My dear aunt, pardon me while I say to you, It i not all of life to live, nor all of death to die.' It is in this life alone that we are able to form our characters for a noble sphere beyond the grave. My. own dear mother has ever felt as she has often kx- Pressed herself, while, f I  le has often ex pressed herself, while forming her children's charac. chter, anhe many that have been committed to her charge, that 'ices  t i charge, that 'esherwas training them for two worlds.' Our short probation here may be called a Prepar'8tory state for a higher and nobler sphere. These bodies, which are the tenements-for the immortal of man to dwell in, will soon become untenanted, and the un shackled mindjwill seek its kindred spirit. Unnim- peded, our vices or virtues will develop themselves. I therefore, my dear aunt, consider the formation of the character of the utmost importance. We are not only accountable for what we do know, but for that which we have the oportunity to acquire. Th moral and physical, together with the intellectual laws, we are bound to cultivate and obey. Qurgreat Law-Giver is not a hard Master, reaping where he has not sown or requiring of us those ten which     "6       HALF-PAST TEN. he has not intrusted to our care. He has freely of- fered us the Pearl of Great Price-the key-stone to all substantial happiness. He has pointed us to the narrow path that leads to glories that perish not; seraphic fingers have woven for us diadems of im- perishable honor. Shall man, formed a little lower than the angels, accept of corroded pleasures which are calculated in their nature to rob men of the pow- er of becoming Kings and Priests unto God. Be patient with me, my dear aunt, while I entreat you to lay aside those pleasures that dazzle only to blind, leading you away from the true source of hap- piness!" Mrs. Oakley was restless while her nephew was speaking. It was evident that she was dissatisfied with the freedom with which he addressed her, and she impatiently said, "Times are not as they were fornierly-the elder must be taught by the younger. But my sister ha thus trammeled the minds of her children, teaching them that there is true merit in-sectarian prejudices. We have always moved in different spheres, and probably always shall. I am not afraid to let time show the wisdom of our choice. Your mother al- ways thought that she was formed for the sole pur- pose of lording it over my heritage; and your con- versation, Franklin, convinces me that the same self-'   FORBEARANOi.       147 righteous principle which she has:always manifested, has been taught you. I am too much of a lady to quarrel with her or with you. This evening I de- signed to have ordered my carriage, and to have gone for your mother and sister, but I have changed my mind. I think it is best for you to stay where you are, for the present; my nervous system cannot endure so much opposition. I have enough at home to unstring the strongest nerves." Franklin was exceedingly grieved with the cruel sarcasm of his aunt. He devotedly loved his mother, and could not endure that injustice should be done her. He knew that he had not been educated in the school of prejudice; his mind had been left free to investigate all creeds, and his magnanimous heart acted upon this broad platform of unbiased charity. When he was convinced that it was his duty to unite with a church which differed in faith and practice from that to which his parents adhered, he was left to act as a free moral agent, accountable to Him only who searcheth the hearts and trieth the reins of the children of men. He knew that his parents, and himself, had been unjustly accused. He made no retaliation, however, but with that meek forbear- ance which should characterize the christian, he. had tried to lead the mind of his aunt to that con-     HiALF-PAST TEN. "8 secrated shrine where the true worshiper finds a ten-fold reward. ainful as his interview had been, he regretted it not; for he felt that it was an impor- taut page in his religious experience.   CHAPTER XVI. THE DECISION. Nay, look within-read not the sacred sorrow Of those for whom thou canst not feel, but wait:-: Visions will fade-the swift approaching morrow, Will bring the strife-the sacrifce-the FATI  Then dream no longer--oh awake to duty Heaven can alone be gained by constant strife; Be thou victorious, and all ideal beauty Shall meet thy faithful soul in endless life. RAPHAEL, FRANKLIm took as affectionate a leave of his aunt as her cool indifference would admit. As they stood upon the veranda, William unexpectedly joined them, his countenance radiant with heavenly hope. He pressed his cousin's hand, and said, We meet not only as cousins, this evening, but as brothers, made such by the pardoning blood of our common Lord " Tears of joy ran down the cheeks of the young men, words being too meager to express the gratitude of their hearts. "I shall see you again to-morrow, and then I will tell you more. I shall stay one day longer in Wil- mington than I expected," remarked William.     HALF-PAST TEN. Franklin observed as they took leave of him, "You have a powerful antagonist to encounter; will you be valiant for the bloodless conflict, William?" "God being my helper, I will," he fervently re- plied. "Pray for me, as you have never prayed. This night I must tell my parents my purposes." The young men advised him to wait until morning, as the mind has generally less harassing'cares, and hoping that there might be an atmospheric influence lightening his task. They had witnessed the ner- vous state of Mrs. Oakley's mind, and this made them dread the rebuff he would meet from his mother. Mr. Oakley possessed a stern and unyielding will; what course he would take, they could not divine. The caprices of Julia werenot without their influence over both her parents. A William took leave of his friends, and joined his mother and sister in the parlor. Julia was seated at her melopeagthrumming imperfectly a complicated piece of music which they had just received from New York. William was scarcely noticed by either of them, as lie entered. Julia struck the instrument violently and exclaimed, "I do declare, this is the most bothersome thing I ever got hold of. Mr. Rife must have thought I had the patience of a saint, or he never would have given me such a piece of music as this. I do declare,    THE DECISION.       151  mother, I hate a German teacher, any way. If papa does not furnish me with a French or Italian instruc- tor, I will give up music."  Joseph, seeing his sister's ill-temper, thought it was a good time to have a general conflagration as he termed it; so in the most provoking manner possible, Ie6 asked her if Colonel ILeveret would not like to see her in one of her amiable moods. I would just like to see you try to look up lovingly into his face, as you did the night our house burned down; yes, that niglht our hero, Bill, put out the flames with two empty pails. Probably he would not have been able to have done all that if he had not read his bible so long by moonlight; the very bible our cousin Emma gave him-a very sacred memento of love: Julia, I think there is no need of your having French or Ital- ian teachers; the pure German will answer you as long as we have so many renowned relations. I saw Dr. lMcNiel, the Rev. Mr. Elliot, and Judge Graves, together with Colonel Armstrong, bowing most gra-- ciously to Uncle Goodridh as he went down street this afternoon. The Colonel has invited them all to dine at his house next Tuesday. I have got a good store of information to-day. I have been out cruising and taking nautical observations; and I know a little about you, Bill, More- than you think for. ' Nothing, very -good, Joseph, I think."     HALF-PAST TEN. "Well, I don't know; I think you ain't the worst fellow in the world; but if you are not what you ought to be, the fault will be your own, for I'm sure Mr. Marsden's old servant, Bob, has faithfully taught you. "Will you-explain yourself, Joseph 2" "No, Bill, I'll have a little mercy on you; I'll1 not explain myself farther than this: I have not been asleep to-day. I'll tell you as I told you before, that I have been cruising." Joseph discovered his mother's nervous irritability, and always ready to fan the spark into a flame, pro- vokingly asked her how much she designed to pay the old gardener for teaching theology in her family. "Yon are a provoking child-too intolerably so to he endured. I believe the Marsdens will prove the ruin of my family, yet." Her whole frame was trembling from excitement. William approached her, and in a very gentle tone said, i Be calm my dear mother; the Marsdens will not ruin us; neither will we ruin ourselves. Joseph has used words that I think he does not know the mean- ing of himself; do not pay any attention to what he says."  "Bill, I've not used a word to-night but what I know the definition of, for everything I have heard to-day which I did not know the meaning of, I set it  THE DECISION.      153 down upon a piece of paper, and looked in Webster's Dictionary and Crabb's Synonyms; till I can define every word and give practical illustrations, even to theology."  \ "William cod not refrain from laughing heartily at the wit of his wicked brother, and the angry feel- ings of Mrs. Oakley and Julia were changed to ad- miration. Mrs. Oakley threw her arms around him, declaring that he was the boy for her, after all - "Well, I may be the boy for you now, but when I put on my tarpaulin cap and round jacket, four or five years hence, I shall not be the Joe for you then; you'll be madder at me than you are at Bill.) 4 I am not mad at Bill,"' replied the mothler. "Well, you will be, when he leaves the military school, and takes up the study of theology." a What do you mean, Joseph!" "Mother, I mean just what I say; but never mind- if he does leave West Point-I will take his place." "You just said that you were going to be a sailor " ' Well, I am; I calculate to be bommander-in-chief of a naval fleet." Mrs. Oakley patted her son, and with one of her most approving smiles, said, i you will yet be the pride of your mother's heart; but I heard your brother say that our naval fleets were very small." "I heard Bill say when the allied powers of Eu- G*   HALF-PAST TEN. rope declared war with us, that the United States would reinforce and enlarge it; and if they don't, I will turn pirate and see what victories I can achieve in that sphere." "What do you know about pirates, inquired Wil- liam, somewhat anxiously?" "I've got a book that tells all about them. If I was only old enough I could command a pirate clip- per now." William told him that would be very wrong, in- deed. "You cannot do that without becoming an outlaw," said he. "You fly in the face of national law, and what is more tha-nall, you violate the laws of God. We should respect both; and we are espe- cially under the most solemn obligations to obey the latter. I therefore entreat you, as a brother, to give up the reading of your pirate books, and read such works as will inspire you with that love which is cal- culated to elevate your moral character, and make such impressions upon your young mind that you will look with disgust and even abhorrence upon the picture you have drawn." Mrs. Oakley impatiently told William that she did not wish him to make a coward of his brother, and furthermore, that she could superintend his reading without any of his assistance. "I do not wish him to   become a pirate," said she, "and I do not expect that   TrHE DECISION.      155 reading piratical books will make him one. He has got to become acquainted with all classes of men." "I hope, my dear mother, that he will not come in contact with pirates." "If he does, William, he will no doubt be a hero and a conqueror." "Mother, we must first conquer ourselves, and this probably will be the greatest victory we shall ever achieve." "That depends entirely upon the strength of our antagonist. You are getting the strangest notions of valor of any cadet I ever saw," replied Mrs. Oakley. "I think the prospect is that my whole life will be a continual warfare; but I shall endeavor by the grace of God to follow my Commander whithersoever he shall lead me." Joseph here interrupted him by saying, "Look out, Bill; you will tell your own story before you are aware; but I think as those reverend youths thought that you had better wait till morning. Don'tyou, Julia?" "I'm sure, Joe, I do not know what you are talk- ing about, and I do not thinkyou do yourself. I don't think you know the meaning of reverend." "I do know just what it means. I heard it used twice to-day, and I sat it down and came home and      "56    H1ALF-PAST TEN. looked in the Synonyms, and that told me exactly its definition." "I am sure I don't know myself what Synonyms' mean!" "Well, I know what it means." "Then tell me if you know " "It gives a full definition, even a nicer distinction than Webster." "You are becoming very wise all at once." "I am becoming very careful, you might have said. I had too many lectures when our house burned down, not to learn to be careful; and I have got a new book that I am going toread more carefully than ever I have studied before-that is if motlher is willing." "What is your book," inquired Julia? "It is the history of all the pirates that have ever been executed in Europe or America." "I am willing you should read it, my son. You have not been very fond of your books, till of late, and I am glad to see you engaged in reading." William looked sad at his mother's remark, but he knew that it was in vain for him to remonstrate. He bade theln "Good night," and sought his own room. His slumbers were disturbed by dark foreboding dreams; he saw himself an exile from home, wan- dering upon foreign strands, penniless and alone. In his fevered dreams he saw a commissioned angel bear-   THE DECISION.      157 ing in his hand an olive branch, accompanying him in all of his promiscuous wanderings, his Celestial Guide whispering words of cheer, till at length he sat down upon the banks of a crystal stream. Then the angel filled a golden goblet from that pure foun- tain, and gave him to drink, saying as he passed it to him, "This is the River of Life, and it shall be in you a well of water springing up into everlasting life; and your Father in heaven hath said, 'Lo! I will be with you even unto the end of the world.' You this day have been made an heir of God and a joint heir with Jesus Christ; and when thy father and mother forsake thee, the Lord will take thee up." As he spread his celestial wings he touched the forehead of the dreamer with his signet, and he awoke. William Oakley was not a believer in dreams or visions, but he mused long upon what he had just dreamed, and it afforded him comfort; and he seemed inspired with a holy confidence. The morning brought with it trials for the young christian. As he returned from his morning ramble, he found his parents at the breakfast table. His heart was glad as he looked upon their countenances, and saw there no Mark forebodings. Mr. Oakley inquired of his son if he was to leave that day for West Point. William replied that he had made his calculations     HALF-PAST TEN. to do so. "But I have been thinking of late, that I should prefer some other profession." At these words the eyes of both his parents flashed with indignation. But William appeared not to no- tice the effect his words had, and with a calm and steady voice he kindly and respectfully told them that his heart revolted at the life he should -be obliged to lead if he completed his profession. Mr. Oakley at once, in a very angry tone, told his son that he might consider himself a disinherited out- cast from his home and family, if he persisted in the course that he proposed; and, rising hastily from the table, he paced up and down the breakfast-room in the greatest agitation. William assured his parents that he did not desire to be hasty in coming to a conclusion so deeply fraught with his family's happiness. "I feel as if I had hith- erto been a stranger to that love and respect which is due to parents," said he. "I have not made this pro- posal from motives of selfishness. As deeply as I love you and as profound as my respect for you is, my dear father and mother, a higher law than yours points me to a different field of action; and if I fol- low in the footsteps of my Divine Master, itwill lead me away from the din of war, to the unbounded fields of a universal brotherhood, where each one seeks his neighbor's good, and love glories in the cross of Jesus   THE DECISION.   Christ. IfI steadily obey the higher law, the laurels. that I gain, and the crown that I shall at length wear, will not be stained with the blood of my fellow-man I am willing to pledge myself to obey the laws of my parents, till they come in contact with the law of God. My home, and you my dear parents, have been and are still as dear as my life. You can ban- ish me from home, but I shall not banish you from my heart, which was never more moved with filial love than at present." Mrs. Oakley had seen the rage of her husband and had remained silent, till the present. "Filial love " she angrily repeated; "a son that will fly in the face of his parents' commands, talk of love and obe- dience William Oakley, you are a stranger to them both." She-approached her husband as he leaned against the mantel, and laying her hand upon his shouldel she said, "If our hopes are blighted in our eldest son, I have no doubt that they will be realized in our youngest. I have recently discovered in Joseph's character that which will prove him worthy of the Scotch blood that flows in his veins." Mr. Oakley made no reply, but ground his teeth in rage, and pushing away the hand of his wife,. ap- proached his son. Looking him full in the face, he asked him if he was determined to leave the profes-     'AST TEN.                         T sion that he had chosen for him.. "Weigh well your answer, sir, for your inheritance depends upon it." William's eyes filled with tears, but he calmly rose and took the hand of his enraged parent. With a steady voice, yet with deep feeling, he told him that as he then viewed the path of duty, it led him in another direction. "Mr. Oakley's frame shook with emotion. At length he was able so to command his voice as to say, "In two days from this, if your purposes are not changed, you must leave my house, and consider your- self no longer a member of the Oakley family." Bridget had been standing in the passage-way leading to the dining-hall, and had overheard the conversation between the parents and their child. Her Irish heart filled almost to bursting with indig- nation and sympathy. She rushed into the room as Mr. Oakley and his wife were about to leave, placing herself between them and the door, and exclaimed, "Stop, ye infidels! stop till I fell ye there will be a time when ye cannot fly-monsters that ye are to cast the child of yer bosoms into the world penniless. Belave me, if ye will, or may the rose of yer sham- rock never bloom again. The curse of the most holy Virgin be upon ye; the door of yer prosperity shall be shut by a stronger hand than that of Bridget   I   'ut; DECISION.      161 O'Connell. The childer that ye have. nursed shall be vampires in yer bosom. Joe already shows the fiery tongue of a serpent, and yer other childer will be wormwood in the cup which ye drink." Mr. Oakley pushed her awayfrom the door where she stood, and said, "Begone, Meg Merrilies! I have heard enough of your Irish harangue. I care not for your shamrock, nor your most holy Virgin."' William was left alone with the warm-hearted Irish servant. As he raised his head from the table upon which he had leaned it, he saw her as she took a small cross from her bosom, and devoutly kissed it. She then extended it and approached him. He shook his head, for he had no power of utterance. "God bless ye, poor lad," said she; "may the Virgin protect ye, and the cross on which her incar- nate Son died support ye." Her full heart then gave way to passionate weep- ing; praying one moment for curses to rest upon the heads of parents who could be so cruel, and the next for blessings upon her injured friend; assuring him that the rose of the shamrock would spontaneously spring up along his path, and shed forth its delicious odors. William assured his Irish friend that it would be very wrong for him to cherish feelings of enmity to. ward his parents.!He told her that they were more "    HALF-PAST TEN. lim than they ever were before, and begged )rgive them. "I forgive them most heart- d he, " for that which causes you so to curse 1 lov wol YeE thei hea thel its] the the the   CHAPTER XVII.                     THE GOLDEN RULE. Life's little lines, how short, how faint, How fast they fade away;  Its highest hopes, its brightest joys, Are compassed in a day. Yet though so changing and so brief,  Our life's eventful page, -  It has its charms for every grief, Its joys for every age; Be ours, then, virtue's deathless charm,  And faith's untiring flight;            '   i Then shall we rise from death's dark sleep, To worlds of cloudless light. G. W. DOANE. IRE is a love to which the world is a stranger, a ;hat looks with tearful eyes upon those who rob them  of all that renders life most dear. ie would fly in the face of danger to rescue from  impending evil.  Every avenue of hisi is accessible, for the law of kindness is written That principle sheds a halo of light around ssessor, putting in chains the baser feelings of iman heart. The principle of love had become fling passion of William Oakley, insomuch that irses of an ignorant Irish servant wounded him.      J HALF-PAST TEN. He looked in pity upon her, superstitious, penniless, and alone, as she was. She was more to be envied than his parents, who had forsaken him. He mused for a few moments upon his situation, then arose, took his hat and went out. His mind was absorbed in deep thought, and he wandered, he scarcely knew wlhither. The morning was clear and beautiful; not a sound broke the stillness of his walk' save the smitten leaves that crumpled under his feet. No dark forebodings of the future settled upon his spir- its, for the angel of love had whispered peace to his troubled soul. He felt that he was heir to an inex- llaustible inheritance, and the arm on which he leaned was strong to save; but this happy frame of mind was not long to remain without being severely tested by the enemy of all righteousness. Weary of his walk, he seated himself upon an album rock overshadowed by a tall pine, whose branches had beckoned him hither. He thought of the home of his childhood, and the days when he enjoyed the con- fidence of his parents; and for the first time le felt himself an exile. He cast about for an anchorage- ground, but dark, portentous clouds overshadowed his pathway. Again and again he asked himself, "What shall I do I If I leave West Point, my father will be incor- rigible; if I persist in my purpose, I have no friends   on whose bounty I can depend." He bowed his head and exclaimed, "O, God! O, .God,pity me; I give up all for thee." At this moment a hand was rgently laid upon his shoulder, and in a low, tender voice these words were repeated: "If thy father and mother forsake thee, the Lord will take thee up. "olI I will be with thee even unto the end of the world.'"A light as from the upper sanctuary dis- persed the dark clonds that had shadowed his hori- zon. For a moment he raised not his eyes from the ground. He thought of his dream, and the promise of the angel. cMr. Oakley, pardon my intrusion," said Lucy. "You are a welcome visitor, Lucy. Your visit was never more opportune." "But you are in trouble; can I do anything to re- lieve you?" "No, Lucy, my trouble is beyond your reach." Tears of deep sympathy might have been seen upon the face of the little girl. Her heart always being moved at the trouble of others, was now full to overflowing. 'If I have not the power to assist you, perhaps I have friends that can do so. There is one thing that I was never more sure of; I have one Friend that is more faithful than a brother; yes, even more so than our earthly parents. In six troubles he has    HALF-PAST TEN. promised to be with you, and in the seventh he will not forsake. The bruised reed will not be broken, the smoking flax will not be quenched. Lean upon Christ, your elder brother." "Lucy, I believe it is so, but if I leave the military school, my father and mother will disinherit me. But I cannot conscientiously return to West Point." "Mr. Oakley, what do you purpose to do?" "I scarcely know, but I would like to take up the study of medicine. In that sphere I think I could be useful; but my father will not assist me in the least, and I cannot expect a miracle will be wrought for so unworthy a creature as myself." "But the Lord has said that 'the cattle on a thou- sand hills are his,' and all the gold and silver, and he is able to bring good out of evil. Do not look so dis- turbed, for I know that God will take care of you. He will be better to you than all your fears." Her voice as she spoke was full of confidence, and her 'countenance beamed with hope. With such a comforter the young man could not be distrustful. "I believe, Lucy, that a good spirit ent' you -here to comfort me. Did you walk all the way?" "No; my pony is down here at the foot of the hill. I often come up this way, especially in the fall and spring. Leoretta generally comes with me, but to- day I came alone, and am glad that I did so."   I   THE GOLDEN RULE.   "I shold have once asked what object you had in visiting such a lonely spdt, but tow I know it is to commune with God and riature." "That is true, but I never enjoyed it so richly as I have this fall. Those hills that are looming up be- fore us, crowned, as you see,lkere and there with for- est trees, with that range of mountains for a back- ground, awake in my heart lofty views of the great Architect. The ever-varying scenery of this place often draws me here at an earlier hour than this. Emma, Leoretta, and myself came here a few morn- ings since, to witness a sunnise. Your cousin thought she had never witnessed anything more grand; the forest looked as if it had hung out its patch-work of many colors. It was a cloudless morning, and the sun mounted the horizon in his golden chariot, shed- ding its rich halo of light, and bidding defiance to storm and cloud. Emma involuntarily exclaimed, as she looked upon the scene, 'Clear as the morning, fair as the moon, and terrible as an army with ban- ners.' I asked her what the scriptures would illus- trate by the figure. She said the metaphor scarcely needed an illustration; the power and strength of truth are both taught in this, and it is clear to every mind that it is taught by the spirit." "Lucy, I am coniviced of this, but I feel as if I saw as through a glass, darkly. My education has     HALF-PAST TEN. been such that my ideas of truth have been exceed- ingly limited. I have been taught by worldly par- ents, while you have been taught by pious parents from your infancy. You are comparatively strong in Christ, while I am a babe; but alas' alas! for my dear parents." The young man bowed his head in deep sorrow. "Could I see them in possession of those riches that take not to themselves wings, how rejoiced would be my heart; but, alas! alas I who is sufficient for these things?" "Mr. Oakley, do not be desponding; you perhaps may be the means of pointing them to the field where lies buried the Pearl of Great Price." "This is impossible, Lucy; I am disinherited." "God sometimes makes the wrath of man to praise him, and the remainder he will not restrain." " They are so strongly and deeply rooted in infidel- ity, that I doubt very much, if I had access to them, of being successful." "Sometimes God chooses the weak things of this world to confound the mighty, and out of the mouths of babes his praise is perfected." "Lucy, I believe all thing  are possible with the Lord, yet I cannot unfold the scriptures as you do. How vague my ideas of religion have hitherto been. I have always looked upon it until of late, as un-   THE QOLDEN RULE. DV R ibl4, a the iateflwc as haig liUtt to do' But now I leok upon it as a S ieace coi. . ha elements of true knoowledge. Wh i6 it,  iat the candid reader and sober thiker neg-  vestigate a sciene which is so practial in acter? It cannot be a want of interest in its  ?"'           - Oakly, til hnliaa heart i .at enmity with     f teaetintyr as I bav oit illt r ,i yin       J y ad la th. li^ ^!wJ R dwant, Ihve never  eronas iunportapgee unti eayhr. Th faet  nhishexe. I!(Sidcr tiFc t ith *i a swer to   j iat the eye of y nud rdestading have even iopened. I Faerefor entreat you to pray for year' prwents."  ilia, Juha!" mnjlured the young mni wnmtinied: ' The* arm of the L o ias not that he oanatwsave, nar is ear B ay that ihar. hi oe e bring jigh outof darne s your patJ pain beBft you.             X '0 for this love let roecks and  '^li -Who!Ltin H  itWob bweak  And allan^niou., human tongue  Tlhe SviO'g pisBesi an s ."  faith, Lucy, is stronger thal mine;- hile I h, ve cy a^ti ,   el thqou my ipn- H               ,  ..       .     HALF-PAST TEN. "There is, perhaps, not so much difference in our faith as there is in our circumstances. Yours is test- ed; mine is yet to be tried. Nov I am goidg home, ind you must go with me." "Home! home!" he repeated, "alas, I have no home!  "O do not say so; you shall share Hirqme's and mine. Oome, Mr. Oakley, you must go with me."' He could not withstand the tearful entreaties of his young friend. They slowly descended the hill to where her pony was tied. He assisted her in mount- ing, and walked by her side. But their thoughts were in different channels; from one, the staff on which he had long leaned was wrenched from his grasp. He scarcely dared to dwell upon the uncer- tain future. A consciousness that he had given up all for Christ, and truth, afforded him that consola- tion which nothing else could give. Lucy had al- ready devised a plan in her own heart for her friend's benefit, but resolved not to mention it to any one un- til she saw Emma. Mr. Oakley was probably never more cordially welcomed than he was by Mrs. Marsden and Miss Baldwin. Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich were spending the day at Dr. McNeis. Lucy embraced the first opportunity to inform Eth-r ma of her cousin's situation, and told her of the plan   she had devised in her own mind. Emlm took her pen and wrote the circumstances to her auntiin -New York. She was so well acquainted with the philan- thropy of her aunt, that she had no doubt as to the  course she would pursue. Their hearts were buoy- ant with hope, but they thought it prudent not to mention what they had done until they knew the re- sult, Emma being confident that her letter would- be promptly answered. They then rejoined the familycircle. Everymeans was taken to divert the mind of the yonng man from his-trouble, - but they found this not so easy a task. Still yonth is too hopeful to be long shrouded in sad- ness; so that day was not spent in gloomy forebo- dings. Franklin and Hirome were mutially en- -gaged to cheer the heart of their yonug friend; and even Leoretta seemed conscious that she had a labor of love to perform. Her arms were often- entwined around his neek, and a warm ,iss was imprinted up- on his cheek, the little girl saying as she did So, I am so glad that you have, ome to spend the day with us." In return for her kindness William end to- her for- a long time. -This .*was the-4ffrest pledge, of his love. After reading Beveral ehapterein the bible to her, she said, "Mr. Oakley, do you like to read the biblef ' "I do now, Retta, but I did not use to."     HA&L-PAST TM.. g" shola have thought you fathbr and zDot -r woold hbavfelt very bad; did they noti " , rPerhapnt o       they e bibl. A well e yoru father and mother do," was his hositadig an- 4Thon they otght to read 'Nelson oa lnelity "' said L   - et 'What does a little girl like. you lkow of' Belsn on Infidelity "' "I know a god dedl about it tor Robert lha been  readingitto melately. Whe Dr.. t Xen a wae young he blieved in the ,videnees of ehietinity. Aftr this he did not beiv the bible for eighteen yea; then he became a believer und preasehr of the goo- pel. I heard Robert ay that he wished every ae that did tot believe the bible would aA this book. MriL aiit told Iwy that the bible wa her asp- port I belive this, for she was alwy so happy." "Thea yo used to ge asd see, Mr. Meroit "$ "Ye  Luy and I wo14. ent ao veryday. ' one- times thb baskt would be so hevy that we could sdareely tug: itt long -Whea we gotf there, Lcy would wauh Mr- Mertit and mn*e har bed; then I wul etand by her and keep the ie off while L4- cy fixed up the room. When she wass ae to keep the Aie off heself, I would hep la0.y W  .the dishes."   ". ya mad tm er wentont dLrgkite wwotk ' "Whyg, nio- dont knew-.-we only called it go- ivg to ee Mra. Merrit. Why4 Mr. Oakley, yo do not kn ow hOW beaatifal she d to t alk to .s Aunt Ircy used to go some days, ana eay all day with hr; adith hen eb w. ult able, them amnoa ad to go; di yinr not, am i' .?inq red Leoemst "a6 B, cyh i ild; aud talwaysf iet thht Iwas M1a. MertVs d4b tor Her meek Mub aissioamnd lUwneV- ing faith biuhiyPR paid tme fralH I evir did for ler';. "Mr .Oatey, I wonld like to havse lad yoa rhear thbe it  y  gave of her, the day ti whnit yomt oWin ae lth boy mfroubym bwlng& iShega. it i Mr. MiwW ;t w words. It bepgil^d the .tim e whie We wetX witiing f-r the wiast of the o0mpsny. As r worha w?*M eOppOsite t- two geln "PA  rlW w  i  ret b y tle** gwtJw'tr   to koWsp b  X  deeply moved, even to tears, at I*ye:lo- q.1Tb 'ip .d aI s *^ e I n ted -t: PB. O p^ him Praw0          y -, wal 4k rdif ttriu  bre rF yr I #  iW   -   /*W      ; t-; U  .     HALF-PAST TEN. Yes, even to affluence. Her husband was once a merchant in one of our eastern cities. Even after her death we found some relics of her former gran- deur. She had two children, a son and a daughter, who were thoroughly educated. Mr. Merrit had acquired the habit of intemperance. After many reverses he hoped to retrieve his fortune by his fdaughter's advantageous marriage, with a wealthy gentleman for whom she had no respect. She re- monstrated with her father, but to no effect, He told her that if she continued her remonstrances, she must leave his house forever. She at last consented, and connected her fate with one for whom she had no sympathy. Their son being disgusted with the con- duct of his father, and the unhappy marriage of his sister, left home for England, and enlisted on board of a man-of-war. He came back just before the death of his father, staid a few days, and then-left for parts unknown. " r. Merrit and his son-in-law failed in business several years before the return of Cyrenus; and Car- oline had moved with her husband to the -far west.' Mrs. Merrit bore with unusual fortitude her reerses of fortune, always maintaining the dignity of a lady. Combined with this, was the meek submission and humble, confiding faith that always render the char- acter of the christian so beautiful. She claimed the   THE GOLSEN RULE.      175 promises of God as if they were given epecially for herself." "I should have thought Mrs. Merrit would have gone to her daughter," remarked William. "When I first became acquainted with her she was making preparaions to do so. She had written to her daughter to that effect, but received no an- swer. She waited a considerable legth of time, and then wrote to the post-master. She was informed through him that they had left a year before, and. he knew not whither they had gone, Mrs. Merrithore this disappointment with her usual composure and fortitude. She had been teaching a small school for a long time." "I am well aware of that, for Julia and myself went to school to her for a shorttime, and we loved her very much. But my mother thought her not competent to take charge of ourt education; and I now very well remember how distisfied, Jlia was with the teacher my mother procured for our fam- ily, and that I was,obliged to attend chool in the village. pi, she commence school after her disap- pointment!?' askedWili, . "She did, but weremonstrated with her for doing so. We were convinced that her health -.wod not ,admit of her eontuinihg it, and her labor t, ngh that long, cold winter was her last The sprihg     KALFPABT TN. cainm, but brught aot t heriBngoratedEtiath. We urged her to become a member of our family, and take up her abode with us; but she declined, hoping that she should eoon be abe to resume her former occupation. It wae evident tat she hose to lead in pat  deiitwent life; thoghi we feared that the effeet vmtd prove injurios to her bealth. My sis- ter took grat plemre in her soeiety, end pant much of-her tim with her. I think p to the time of her death there was aot a day bat whrt toie member of our fimily was there. She bad a rich store of inovedge, and her corverationa preers were un- surpassed. bTe high behest, 'Keep the heart With all diligence,' was implicitly obeyed by her. Her ides flowed in .o eal"te a ch unel, I amui confess that I fiuedte  vied tr. Her intelleet continued unimpaired to the lst. Her reliion was not a theo- ry, but prtiea, and she ws my incefe eeIelrw. The debt of gtr  e owa or her sofitr y tIa nevi be repqid."- "Did *he eWir esak of-hbr thifet  "Yes, veryx fte*e o me .  The ast tia e I conr aed with her about them, she Aberved that the *^r  tf -G4od hd been mrysties, fit *hwere se eoald not trace Him, ie coald truit im with implieit cooa- dece; ansd I hope yme, my der tnd, will hare  like fith, Believe e, William,   THE GOLDEN RULE.   ' The World eam never give the bliss for which we sigh; Tis not the whole of life to live, nor all of death to die.'" "Have you spt *ad ovsv with- Robert to- day " "I have nothttt I tope to"- He will be .i   *"sle A rei5,.ai& make one of our family circle . "Will uncle   Vti m*t r to  t" "They witl prafablyj sjpend the i"fit with Dr. McNiel.". H*          - M      CHAPTER XVII. THE  TRANQUIL    EVE. O, tell me not that earth is dark- That joy may not be here; That human-kind are but a mark, For blight and pain and fear;-  That joy like sunshine fades in night, And then leaves man to sigh; For there are joys like mid-day's light- Yes, joys-that pass not by. Ohl tell me not there is no eye Undimmed by sorrow's tear; For every gale that passes by, Bears strains of gladness here. Flowers there are that never fade, Within the heart's own bower; And many stars that love has made, Their light of goodness pour. Say not there is no heart on earth That grief has not bereft; That sorrow reigneth from our birth, Until in death we're left! Oh! tell me not no true hearts are Found in this " vale of tears," There's one, to me a guiding star, That ever bright appears.   J. L MoCCoua   IN the evening above referred to there were two fami- ly circles where the star of domestic happiness shed its benign rays upon every heart. Could you have looked into Mrs. Marsden's parlor and read the countenances   THR TRANQUIL VE.       179 of its occupants, you would have said at once, " the God of Peace reigns here;" and a close observer might have seen upon the back-ground lines of for- mer anxiety, as if the ocean upon which they had once sailed had been tumultuous. Then they had heard a voice full of heavenly melody say to the troubled waves, "Peace, be still," and Faith had dropped her anchor within the harbor of domestic love. Lucy's face, bright as it always was, looked confi- dently up to the face of her aunt and mother, as they listened with interest to Robert's history of his visit to Russia, and seeming to forget for a moment, the open letters which she had just begged leave to rad. Turning her eyes to her brother, he gave her one of his roguish glances, which brought the blood instant. ly to her cheeks; but he spared her, for there was a stranger present and he forebore to mention Oharilaus' name. This was the second letter she had received from her young friend. He told her that they were to sail from New York the next day. He also gave her an interesting account of the various places of interest which he had visited, and promised to write again as soon as they arrived at Liverpool. The young ladies were soon invited to the pjbno. Emma played with her usual ease and grace. Miss        
                HALF-PAST TEN. many times her midnight lamp had burned dim, and how often her brain had whirled as she pursued her studies; not for the sake of excelling, but impelled forward by a thirst for knowledge which had made her days days of labor, and her nights nights of toil. She thought, too, how often she had thrown herself wearied upon her bed, where her mind, even in sleep, was unwilling to let go its favorite themes; busy in the arranging of sentences and the solving of problems; reciting or committing to memory her Latin, Greek, or Italian. She awoke to take up the reality of her troubled dreams. Her tears flowed unbidden as she looked upon the little face before her, beaming with intelligence and thought-of that little heart already sighing for that knowledge which, if ever attained by her,must be byHerculeanefforts. To-hide heremotion she left the group, and strolled to a distant window, where she could secrete jerself behind the rich dam- ask hangings. As she gazed upon the clear sky and read the stat, each one of which was as familiar to her as the initials of her own name, she was soon lost in admiration, in the contemplation of the power and wisdom of the Great Architect; and when she consid- ered that the same hand which had so bountifully ar- ranged the ethereal worlds, causing each planet to  roll in harmony, and kindling myriads of suns to shed forth their light and heat-concentrating their   THE TRANQUIL EVE.   numerous rsys and bringing them to a focus, even to that minuteness that the smallest insect that floats in air is warmed, invigorated, and enabled to perform its own office. And the same hand had painted the lilies of the field, and had arranged the floral cabinet of earth. Artists renowned and skilled had failed in their attempts to imitate, and in disgust of them- selves had thrown aside the pencil and the brush. Floy asked, in her own heart, "why it was that one formed in the image of God, and endowed with a mind susceptible of the highest cultivation, was shut out of those glories, and consigned for life, and per- haps for a long one, to a world of impenetrable dark- ness." But the faithful monitor of Floy's heart made her reflect upon the powers with which she was con- tending. Her own heart told her that God, whose at- tribute was love, knew in what way Leoretta, for whom she had shed such bitter tears, could best glo- rify him. She felt assured that "not a sparrow should fall to the ground without her Heavenly Father's notice." This train of thought restored Floy's spirits, and she againjoined the company that had now assem- bled, young and old, around the table. If there was one face sadder than another, it was her own. Rob- ert had not yet got through with his history of Czar- ism, when she noiselessly seated herself by the side    of lacy m4toettO,  s her aiitia dbew esa r in the interestig eoIvesfioa htied oatflfh, who seemed never weary of -talkig Tf ksi a. Lucy asked Robert if %e oil( tell AMm m i Czarism was first ;toianiaed ta sRiieai 1 do not inow as I can tell 3ust the yea, fr-ng memory, I fid, ails me in dates. Ici give lhe it- tory, if one of yott tudefnt i1tt give ame'hte 4abe. About the year 1584, featfit dissesions elidted among the people of Russia, insomnuh, *at 't hr sufferings were unparalleled. At the dose f 4isf fearful period of anarchy, w-hieh was boutt *he year 1613, the outsirts of the empire of the -Ruriks were in the possession of Swedes, Poles, Turks,?er- sians, and Cossacks." Robert here asked Lucy to go and get her "Ts- tory of Russia," and turn to the account of Czarism. "Lucy, you may commence reading where I left off; these hard names I could not remember. I do not know as you can read them, darling, but do your best." Aunt Lucy looked a little anxious, for lher niece had not been used to reading i company. Lucy glanced her eye over the page aId then commenced reading: Several important provinces had already thrown off their allegiance to Moscow; the soldiers were un-   paid; the treasury was empty; the court was a scene of perpetual bloody intrigues; the whole civil ser- vice was disorganized. In their misery a large num- ber of Russian nobles offered the throne to the king of Poland; but while negotiations were pending, a butcher-of Novogorod coeeded in arousing a senti- ment of nationality amtn his otymen, and a vigorous effort was made to shake off thePolish yoke. Prince Pojasky led the Bssians; and the Poles were driven from Mmeew. The victorious army were determined to elect a Czar"      CHAPTER XIX. THE ESOAPE. The tumult of each sacked and burning village; The shout that every prayer for mercy drowns; The soldiers' revels in the midst of pillage-; The wail of famine in the beleaguered towns; The bursting shell, the gate-way wrenched asunder, The rattling musketry, the clashing blade; And ever and anon, in tones of thunder, The diapason of the cannonade. "ONOFELLOW. ( NOTIE was sent to every province in the empire; and the nobility, the clergy, and the burgesses were summoned to send deputies to Moscow to the elec- tion. The whole transaction appears to have been conducted with the utmost fairness. For many years the Romanoffs had been one of the leading families of Muscovy-sprung from an adventurer, Andrew Kobyla, who was a foreign emigrant. Not the least conspicuous of his house, was Feodor, whose patriot- ism was deemed so formidable by the usurper Godo- noff, that he persecuted his family with unrelenting rancor, and forced both himself and wife to become ecclesiastics. Public opinion compelled his prede- cessor to elevate the illustrious victim of tyranny to the dignity of Metropolitan of Rostoff; he was sub-   THE ESCAPE.   sequently sent to Poland in the capacity of embassa- dor, which office he filled when the Russians, urged by the butcher of Novogorod, determined to elect a native ruler. The council was composed of nobles, clergy, and burgesses, or citizens proper, and assemi- bled in tents. "Three army officers were the most prominent candidates for the suffrages of the electors. All three had taken an active part in the troubles of the last twenty years, and were on many accounts obnoxious to the nation. It is probable that some glimmering of the dangers of military rule penetrated the coun- cil; for, after several days of stormy debate, their choice fell at last on Michael Romanoff, son of the embassador to Polaud, whose family had suffered much for the country, and whose father, though ab- sent, was the most respected citizen of Russia. ? "Michael, or Mikhail Romanoff, was at this time at the convent of Kastroma with his mother. Though but seventeen years of age, he had spent many years in exile and in prison. His brothers had languished and died under the cruelty of Boris. His father, though clothed with the sacred quality of embassa- dor, had been thrown into a Polish dungeon the mo- ment the news of the Russian movement h]ad reached Warsaw. Misfortune had saddened the nind of both Michael and his mother. They declined/the offer of 8/      HALF-PAST TEN. onal council, and begged the deptaion -that      to re4 apon them at Kastroma to select some wor-       was t reon to fill the office of the Czar. But Arch-    lattei Theodorete and the deputies of the council      thoun )lved to hear of no refusal. They skillfully     ing]  t upon the religious feelings of the- young      that Af and his mother; reminding them that         gibe orth they were answerable to God for the wel-ace a Russia; employing all the awe-inspiring       respe f the Greek church to shake their reolutioi;      and  ily succeeded in extorting from boh a prom-      Czar ubmit ltemsel-ve to 'te will of Heavenas        disco d by the voice of the Russian people.'        seem April of the same year, lMchael, of the o-      light dynasty, was crowned at Moscow, and reigned      tion ;wo years over Russia Materials for his bi-     temi y are wanting. We know that he contrived  e peace with the Poles and the Swades, at the     ham of pwroinces which Peter the GQ t and his       bear oM, spent much blood in regaining. us pro-       in hi the se of tobacco as injurious to te human He recalled his father from his dungeon is      in UE l,and asscited himself wit h in the gov-       have it of the iangdom; id finally, acquired ex-      tice  poilarity asmog his ucos.-               A s fierswisd m, combined with his own rod-        irt inspied a policy which was well aee lted       men 1      '       .    '  . e   THa ESCAPE        189 1 cile the BRussns to the dynasty of whieh he  be the root His marriages-especialy the t are the only events which historians have  it worth while to record. His first wife dy-  bli notice was given throughout the empire e Czar intended to .marry agin; and all eli- ong ladies were invited to attend at the pal-  fixed time. The assembled cadites were  filly received by an officer of tha household,  tertained for several days, during which, the    " ingled with them in disguise, endeavoring to r their eharacters and qualities. It would  iat his inspection was not confined to the day- a tranquit sleep being aa essential a qualifica- r his Czahip, as a sweet disposition or a docile I examination resulted in the choice of a lady.  Streekner, whose father was surprised by the  of the welcome news, in the act of digging Reld. is singnlar method of choosing a wife wa long  in Russia; and as a general rule, it appears to  Uswered quiteas well as the more refined prac- later year s." r reading the above, Lucy paused, for the      ' dnesa of her auditors, epecially the gentle- ras not a little excited. HirQme suggsted     HALF-PAST TEN. sending in a petition to the next legislature to adopt the oriental mode of choosing a wife. "Michael's mode of choosing a wife is not so ab- surd, Lucy, as your looks seem to say it is." Floy turned to Lucy and said, "If your brother is so partial to Michael, we have a right to indulge in out preferences-we will have our private tribunal." "What! Miss Floy," said William, "you do not intend to have us court-martialed privately " "1No, we will make an investigation that will be more appalling to you than a court-martial." "What tribunal," inquired Franklin, " have you reference to?" "The one instituted by Alexis, the son of Michael." "Yes, Floy, I now recollect it; but that was no less than a private inquisition. "That is very true, Mr. Goodrich, and the plan that commended itself so powerfully to Hirome par- takes of the same spirit. This private inquisition in- vestigated men's characters while awake; but Mi- chael investigated character while his victims were in unconscious sleep." Robert observed that many of the-absurd practices of Russia, in those days, were now laid aside. "But I think, Robert," continued Floy, "that this secret tribunal, now in question, is continued to some extent to the present time."   I   THE ESCAPE.   191   "You are correct, Miss McNeil; but can we ex- pect a universal brotherhood to prevail where the doc- trines of Christ are neither taught nor tolerated Men who seek alone self-aggrandizement, eagerly grasp at the most astonishing absurdities to accomplish their selfish purposes. You will see it especially in the character of Alexi, Shortly before his death, his physician advised him to be bled; He capriciously ordered that all his courtiers should be bled likewise. One old man, a faithful general, whose brow bore many a scar, and whose blood had been freely,shed on the battle-field, demurred to this preposterous re- quest. Alexis heaped the most violent abuse on his head, and was with difficulty restrained from beating him on the spot."        - Leoretta was seated upon the knee of her old friend. Looking up into his face inquiringly, she asked: R' obert, what do you mean when you say ' universal. brotherhood '" He drew the child gently to his bosom and inquired of her, "Is that the only thing in -our reading and conversation which you do not understand, darling?" "O, no, Robert, not half; but I often hear you re- peat those words, and they make my heart grow warm, as Lucy says." "And yet, child, you do not know the meaning of them. To give you a summary explanation of them     192       HALF-PAST TEN.  -it is simply acting upon the Golden Rule; and will you tell me, darling, what that is J" "It is ' To do to others as I would, That they should do to me, Will make me honest, kind snd good, As children ought to be.'" "Now can you repeat it as it is in the scriptures " "As ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise." Robert looked at William and said, "Mr. Oak- ley, these words constitute the whole christian duty; let them be acted upon, and we shall not have to in- quire of our neighbor, know ye the Lord,' for all would know him from the least to the greatest." Lucy asked if it wouldkbe before Christ should come and reign King of Saints                 I "We cannot tell, my child, to what extent these principles shall triumph. But this should not make us any the less anxious to promote the doctrines of truth; it should b universal with us; and every act of our lives should tell the v ctories we havm achieved over our own fallen natures; and amid-the moral darkness thatsurrounds us, we must be as a 'city set on a hill,' whose light cannot be hid." Mrs. Marsden said, "Th, :inciple of doing unto others #s we would that they should do to us, is the brightest pearl in the chriaa's diadem. These pur- *               I I   THE ESCAPE.       193 chased, and free are the chains of gold which make up the wreaths for the tops of the pillars in the temple of God. It was dear to Christ, but free to us. When Christ was to buy, silver and gold were noth- ing worth; prayers and tears could not suffice, nor anything below his blood; but our buying, is receiv- ing. -A want of this heaven-born principle has caused oceans of blood and rivers of tears to be shed; the orphan's cry and the widow's wail have fallen upon listless ears; and the human heart, which should have been the temple, of affection, has been adamant, as is invariably the case when we allow selfishness to become the chief cause of action. In the-character of the Princess Sophia, we see the ruinous effects of supreme selfishness. Her barbarous unnatural treatment to Peter the Great and his un- protected mother, shows clearly to my own mind the depravity of the human heart." "That was dreadful, -was it not, mamma I have just turned to a short account of it;, may I not read it?" "If it is not too long, Lucy." All were anxious to hear, and Lucy read as follows: After the death of Feodor, the quarrels of the Narishkins with the Princess Sophia, broke out afresh. The latter, with undilminished energy, urged the claims of her idiot brother Ivan, and offered to I*          13     HALF-PAST TEN. accept the regency herself; the former, with a strong show of right this time, put fqrward Peter, a fine boy of ten years old. The sense of the nation, so far as it was manifested, was on the side of Peter; but won by the burgesses, and also, it is said, by the beauty and eloquence of Sophia, were ready togo any lengths in favor of their own mistress. Peter's party becom- ing formidable, the princess resolved to st ise a blow which should be final. A report was spread that the Narishkins intended to murder Ivaa; money and brandy were freely distributed to the troops; tne- quivocal hints of plunder were thrown out to the bandit-strelitz; and when all was prepared for the explosion, the signal was given by Sophia herself The strelitz were let loose, and rushed like wolves to the palace of the Narishkins. It was sacked. 'The brothers of Natalie, Peter's mother, were massacred, with sixty of their friends and kinsmen. Sophia rode furiously to and fro among trie riotous soldiery, urg- ing them to complete their work. Her angelic fea- tures wore a demoniac expression; she was not satis- fied the prey had escaped her; while the strelitz were tearing down the door of the palace. "Natahe had escaped on foot, with her son Peter in her arms. The city was overrun by drunken, brutal soldiers., She flew with the wings of fear through the narrowest streets and the suburbs, to the country.      It was winter-, the snow was falling .thik. -Natalie took to thb-fields, and quickened her pace to reach shelter.- S i her strength began to fail. The cold began to tell upon her ill-clad form. She hardly knew whither She was going. Still she struggled on- ward, praying earnestly that God, whohad saved her son from the swordq f the atrelitz, would shield him from the blasts of the north wind and the terrors of the cold. Eer lhnbs were nearly failing, when she heard. behind her the footsteps of horsemen. She was pursued. They had tracked her. The horrible truth gave her new energy. Clasping her child closer. to her breast, and uttering a mental prayer, she runs through the snow with a speed which still leaves some distance between her and her pursuers. The race,. however, cannot last long. Well-mounted soldiers, thirsting for blood, are sure to overtake a poor, bro- ken-hearted woman, overburdened with a child. They are at her heels, shouting and menacing, when the Convent of the Trinty--a refuge for the worst male- factors-opens its doors to the fugitive. She had just strength to enter the aisle,' hasten to the altar, and deposit her precious burden upon its steps. Here at length, she thinks, is safety. Murder they would commit, but sacrilege! Absurd to suppose that a soldier of the strelitz knew yyicisci f -Ithey rush, scarce a moment after NataI thefr swords     HALF-PAST TEN. drawn, their eyes flashing, their mouths vomiting menace and imprecation. A single bound and the foremost stands on the steps of the altar; his weapon is raised; Peter's life is not worth a moment's pur- chase. Natalie springs forward, seizes the soldier's arm, and asks him, with fioble indignation, how he dares kill his Czar. The soldier turns fiercely from the child to the mother-quails a moment under her piercing eye-hesitates-a sound is heard outside-- 't is the tramp of horsemen. Possibly a rescue. A fierce band of Narishkins eager for vengeance. So the strelitz think, for they hurriedly retreat from the altar to the church door, mount their horses and es- cape, smitten with a sudden panic. The lives of Pe- ter and his heroic mother are safe," Lucy sighed as she closed her book. At length she said, "The account which is given of the Princess Sophia is so unlike anything that I have ever seen, that I think I do not fully realize or comprehend the motives so devoted to selfishness." Mrs. Marsden turned to Mr. Oakley, and asked if he thought that the heart of the Princess Sophia could have been brought to see its depravity to that extent that she would have loathed her own existence. With a subdued voice he, replied, "I think her heart naturally was no more at enmity with God than   7   THE ESCAPE.   197   mine. And I know not why the' same power and the same spirit could not have wrought the same change in her that has been wrought in myself. The blood of Christ cleanseth from all sin."      r!   I  ; CHAPTER XX. "ETTERS.                         1 There is a bird, of silvery wings And breasts soft swell,                  ] Seemeth above all other things,                  i Of peace to tell:- Which bears that calmness in its form, All pure and sweet We seek so oft amid life's storm,            But never meet.  Oh! that the quiet of thy breast  Might touch my own-  Thou angel of a dream of rest,                  I To earth unknown.  A. Y. A. ieautiful is that love which exists beyond the            ( es of self, making broad the mantle of charity,           ! nay come under its ample folds. The heart  vith the love of God cannot easily conceive  epravity which is calculated to blot from the :of man the image of his Creator, and rob  hose high and exalted principles that ren-  an object of admiration. ve that pervaded Mr. Oakley's heart was as  beautiful as the flowers of spring, when the 3 its vivifying rays upon the new-born sea- ' '  '       I   "FTTERS        199    son; bringing into life and activity the beauties of creation; adorning hill and valley with nature's bounteous stores; shedding alike its benignant rays; cheering the heart and elevating the soul to the Au- thor of every good and perfect gift. Divested of self, Mr. Oakley sought alone his neighbor's good i he loved his enemies, and prayed for those who despite- fully used him. He trusted in God, and watched with a subdued heart the movings of Providence, But his Heavenly Father did not tarry long, A few days after the evening's ttea-tfte, a package of letters was handed to Emma, among which was one acknowledging the reception of hers, containing the petition in behalf of her cousin. Emma was delight- ed on discovering that her Aunt Breckenridge had not only thought favorably and liberally in behalf of her friend, but told her that she had been informed by Colonel Armstrong of Mr. Oakley's disinheriting his son; and wished William to come immediately to. the city, saying, "I am pleased with his choice of a profession, and think he had better enter soon upon his studies. I should wish him to board in my fam- ily. I think you had better accompany him. This week, I believe, terminates your father's stay at Wilmington." Emma first communicated her aunt's wishes to Lu-  cy, who was delighted with the provisions that had    HALF-PAST TEN. been made for her friend; but the thoughts of being separated from Emma whom she so dearly loved, was painful; however, she would very soon go to her, and spend a whole winter with her. "But, Emma," said Lucy, " how lonely I shall be. To-moirow your brother and Hirome will both leave; I wish your aunt would let you stay until next week." "Well, Lucy, I shall want a little time to make preparations for our journey south." Lucy looked very sad as Emma left the room to communicate the good news to her cousin, whom she found walking alone upon the balcony. She placed her arm gently through his. With tearful eyes he said, "Dear Emma, the Lord has been better to me than my fears. I have just re- ceived a letter from your aunt, and in it was enclosed a check for one hundred dollars. There has been a strange mingling of pride and gratitude in my heart. It is no less than private charity that I receive. What shall I do, Emma? Shall I return it with my sincere thanks, and struggle on through the world alone?" Emma smiled as she told her cousin that it would be impossible for him to do that. "If you wish to loan the money of her, do it, and pay her when fortune smiles. As the ancients held sacred the oak riven and scathed by the fhunderbolts of heaven, so the delicate mind shall look upon you,   "ETTERS.        201 my cousin, as one on whom the afflicting hand of God has been laid;. and would it be right in you not to accept, but turn proudly away from the verifying of one of our H/eavenly Father's promises? He has said, 'When thy father and mother forsake thee, the Lord will take thee up.' Has he not thrown around  you his protecting arm, in the provision that he has so opportunely made for you? This morning has been to us as the wings of the carrier dove, covered with sil- ver, and her feathers with yellow gold, made radiant by the Sun of Righteousness. Go now, dear cousin, and seek once more your father and .mother. Let that forbearance which so beautifully adorns the christian, triumphantly reign in your heart; though disinherited, you are no less their child." He pressed the hand of his adviser, and saying, "I will do as you request. It is early; I shall find my father at home. Pray for me; I will hasten." William again turned his face toward what was once his home. The morning sun was shedding its clear autumnal light upon mountain and hill-top, and heaven's blue dome reminded him of that rest for which the weary pilgrim sighs. While rapt in holy contemplation for a moment, he forgot the disagreea- ble errand upon which he had started. His heart grew warm with those -emotions which the christian alone can exercise, as he pleaded earnestly for the       HALF-PAST TEN. salvation of those whom he felt he had never be- lore really loved. As he neared the home of his brothers and sisters, an overwhelming sense of his condition as an outcast caused his brain to reel, and he leaned against the willow that had screened him from observation the night he had taken from his pocket Emma's precious gift, and sought from its sa- cred pages for that lamp which would guide his feet to the path which groweth brighter and brighter up to the perfect day. He gladly would have mused longer, but he would soon be observed from the house. Rallying himself, he walked leisurely up the veranda. His ring was answered by Bridget. "God bless ye," she exclaimed on discovering him. "I call all the saints to witness if I aint glad to see ye; but," she said in a low voice, "I fear yer father and mother will not welcome ye; they have been so mad since ye have been gone, that the house has been a purgatory." "Then, Bridget, perhaps they will be glad to see me." "No, unless ye will go back to the fighting school; but walk into the parlor, and I will tell them that ye have come home again."  "That would not be the best way, Bridget. Where are they? I will go to them." Bridget told him that they were up stairs, in the       I, W1 4 ,-   family sitting-soom. He rapped at the door; it was opened by Joseph, who put on one of his wonderoiu faces on seeing his brother; after which he bowed very low, and turning to his father, who was about leaving the room by another door, he said, with much complacency, Father, do not be in so much haste; let me pre- sent you and my mother to Mr. Oakley, second mate to the old ship Zion. She shipped her cargo a week ago, down here at Marsden bay; she weighs anchor to-morrow, and is bound to parts unknown." Mr. Oakley slammed the door, and said, "I do not like her colors, and I shall not take the trouble to hail her." William recovered himself in a moment, and ex- tended his hand to his mother, saying, "Good morn- - ing, mother; I hope I find you well." With an air of indifference she disregarded the hand that was proffered. She at length looked him steadily in the eye, and remarked, "Whenever you come back to the wishes of your parents, you shall be recognized as a son." William fell at her feet on his knees, and with a voice of tender entreaty, begged her forgiveness for every real offense he had ever been guilty of. Mrs. Oakley seemed a little moved, and requested him to rise and be seated, saying,    HALF-PAST TEN. "I have but little time to devote to you this morn- ing. If you can comply with our wishes, all will be well. Give up your religious notions and return to West Point. Tell me- at once whether you will do it or not." "Dear mother, ask me to give up anything but the religion of Jesus Christ." "That is all you have to say? good morning;" and in much agitation she left the room. William sat with his head bowed in his hands, scarcely conscious where he was, or what position he occupied. He repeatedly asked himself-"- Is it my mother that has so hastily left me?" He would have talked to and reasoned with her, if she had only given him an opportunity. But he knew that her. nerves were weak, and her ideas of truth so widely differing from his own, that reason and entreaty would be alike unavailing. He bowed his head upon the arm of the sofa, and prayed that Ieaven's choicest blessings might rest upon his father and mother. He was thus engaged when Julia came into the room. She seemed a little surprised at his presence, as well as his attitude. She received him with a kindness which was entirely unusual with her. "I am glad you have come back," said she,'4 and I   hope you have come to stay. fow pale you look; have you been ill!"  "No, dear sister, I have not been ill. But tell me, sister, if you love me as a brother-have you ban- ished me?" "No, no," she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck, and weeping as he had niver seen her weep before. As soon as she was able to speak, she told him that she had always cherished in her heart a secret regard for the religious instructions which Lucy had so often given her. "I know that I am a stranger to happi- ness, but I have not the courage to brave the dis- pleasure of my parents, and risk being disinherited as you have been. I see the change it has made in your character, and it only makes me more desirous of possessing those virtues which are so beautifully ex- emplified in you. Oh! that I had a religious mother, as Lucy has. I long to see Cousin Emma, that I may tell her that I have done her injustice; but our mother has forbidden my seeing her. Mother told me that I must hurry and dress; so I must leave you. When you think of me, remember that I love you." "The brother and sister tenderly embraced each other, and parted. The day was spent at Mr. Mars- den's in busy preparations. Early the next morning Mr. and Mrs, Goodrich and family, with William and     HALF-PAST TEN. Hirome, started for New York. The two students were to spend a few days in the city, before returning to Yale. Mr. Marsden had written to have Robert ac- company the: family to Washington, as his presence would aid materially in securing his pension. The old gentleman thought it would be impossible for him to go; but at length he yielded to the persuasions of Mrs. Marsden and her sister. Lucy was'very glad when she heard him consent, and Leoretta was in ex- stacies. In two weeks all were ready for the journey. The weather had become by this time excessively cold. There were two who had favorite spots to visit. Rob- ert must visit his bower in the distant wood, where a few days before he had held a long conference with his young friend. With feelings of intense interest he buttoned up his overcoat, while Lucy stepped upon a stool to wrap about his neck a warm muffler. "Why do you go out this cold morning " inquired Lucy. "Only-because I have a favorite spot to visit, dar- ling, before I leave; but you seem to have on extra furs, for one that is going to stay in the house." "I am going out, too. I have 'a place very dear to me, which I wish to visit before we go." The old gentleman stooped down and kissed her as they parted upon the veranda. Lucy cast one sober   look upon the trees that were nearly stripped of their foliage. While their naked branches iwung to and fro, they seemed to her to beckon back to their na- tive stems the fallen leaves that were restlessly nest- ling upon the frozen bosom of their mother earth, as if to hide themselves from the eye and footstep of the unconscious wanderer. While she gazed, she soliloquized: "Passing away is written upon everything on which the eye rests. Nature tells me that I am mor- tal-that the places which now know me, will soon know me no more forever. As these leaves fall to the earth, so shall I, and be buried from all I hold dear. No, not from all that is dear) to me, for that which is sacred to me now, will be more sacred when I am absent from the body. I am sure, through the merits of Christ, to be present with God." She thought of Robert. "He has almost reached his three- score years, and the doctrines of Christ have been ex- emplified in all his life; will it be so with me " she inquired. She had reached the summer-house, and sitting down upon one of its benches, she bowed her head in her hands and wept. Her eye had rested upon the Michigan rose, which was the favorite of one whom she never expected to meet again. It was withered, and its beauty gone to every eye but hers. Thehand    208       HALF-PAST TEN. that had aided her in training its tendrils she had taken for the last time. "Why do my tears flow " she asked herself. "I loved him as a brother and a friend." The morning previous to his leaving came to her mind, and her tears flowed afresh. They were the tributes of love, pure and undefiled. He was a few years her senior, but in his tender sympathies with her he was a child. His literary attainments were far beyond his years. Charilaus' heart was as tender and feminine as a girl's. His love of books made him have but few youthful companions in his own country. In his visit to America he had found but one, and that was Lucy. If she had known how often he had thought of her on his voyage home, and how much he thought he would need her on his arri- val to aid him in his studies, or rather to be his com- panion to cheer him when weary in body and mind from the heavy tasks he charged himself with-for he never needed a tutor to task him, as histhirst for knowl- edge was sufficient-Lucy's tears would not have flowed so freely as they did that morning. She lifted her head, and looked again upon nature, and thought of the returning spring-the green leaves-the buds and the flowers-and the autumnal gloom that had settled down upon her heart vanished in a moment, as she compared nature springing into life with the resurrec- tion morning, when these bodies would be clothed   "ETTERS.        209 anew, and the mind burst from its'narrow sphere and drinke those draughts of knowledge for which her soul so earnestly longed. Then she bowed before God, and sdlemnly renewed the consecration that a few weeks before had been so fully made, to live for Christ and his service. To do whateveriher hinds found to do, with an eye single to the glory of God, was her firm resolve. Wrapped in profound meditation, she held that communion with the spirit that aids so fully in making up the christiana armor, and forming an impenetrable shield in which he is secure, proving that those who trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion.                     - The child, as well as the aged veteran, scarcely dif- fer in their views of truth. Their reasons and anfal- ogies are the same. As the eye of the experienced mariner looks steadily far in the distance through, the lens of the telescope, and brings distant objects near, so the veteran of the Cross, as he nears the ha- ven of rest, looks with a steady eye upon the tower- ing heights of the new Jerusalem. They loom up before him, one by one, as his time-worn barque floats fearlessly over the billows of life. I The babe in Christ has the same assurance, and looks for the same an- chorage-ground; the same star that guides the one, directs the other. Robert that morning looked on nature with no more ,) 14     )    IHALF-PAST TEN. intensity of feeling than did Lucy. His views might have been more expanded; his conclusions were no more correct than hers. He knew that he stood upon the boundaries of time; and she knew that the life of man was as grass. He had seen hope bud and blossom, and his Heavenly Father had unexpectedly garnered the fruit. Lucy, with a living faith, seized the promise, that whatsoever she committed into the hands of the Lord would be kept until the day when He should come to make up his jewels. The word of God was to each a telescope, and his promises the lens through which they looked. Robert took his way up the ledge, that he might visit the grotto where he often stopped to muse and rest. There was an offset in the rocks which formed a rustic veranda in front of the entrance. It was sur- rounded by tall forest trees, and the path was so nar- row leading to it, and so entirely shut out from view by the wild grape-vines woven so thickly over and around the- rocks, that no one would think of looking there for human foot-prints. Robert ascended the ledge with slow and cautious footsteps, feeling an un- usual consciousness that his visits were numbered. The rattling of the naked branches over his head sounded like the falling earth upon his last resting place. Unbidden tears filled his eyes and rolled down his    "ETTERS.        2" furrowed cheeks. They were not' tears of remorse or sadness, but the overflowing of a grateful heart. Goodness and mercy have followed me all the days of my life," he slowly repeated, as he entered the grotto, and took up his bible which had laid there for years, and read, "Thou art my sun and my shield, and no good thing will I withhold from those that walk uprightly." As the old man sang his song of praise, the echoes from that deep cavern sounded like the choirs of ac- companying angels j In that peculiar position, the fine modulations of his voice were like the seraphic notes of celestial minstrels, and in that place Robert had rather sing than in any other. The wild solitude, the  echo and the reverberation of the sound, made him conscious that there was no eye to see him, but that of Him whose omnipresence is eternal. Robert looked upon the honeysuckles that were in bloom, and the passion-vine, with the others which he had removed from Susan's room, arranging them so that the frost would not injure them during the winter, for he considered them too sacred for the hand of a stranger to prune; he then hastened to the spot- where he had other arrangements to make. A short walk brought him beneath the ever restless poplar, where the autumn winds sang their low lullaby, while the evergreens bid defiance, saying, "Nature has     212    HHALF-PAST TEN. provided us with a self-sustaining battery, that au- tumn or winter has no power to exhaust." He moral- ized as he saw in the range of his own vision the di- versity with which every thing was marked. The tall pine and the unfading firs waved their still ver- dant branches, while the maple blushed its crimson, and the beech cast upon the ground its yellow foliage. "So it is," he soliloquized; " the same affliction that brings one to the ground, another will bear with the same apparent fortitude with which yonder pine withstands the chilling blasts that bring prostrate to the earth its weaker neighbors." *      .   CHAPTER XXI. THE  ANGEL OF MERCY. She walks in beauty, like the night Of cloudless climes and starry skies; And all that's best of dark and bright Meet in her aspect and her eyes: Thus mellow'd to that tender light Which heaven to gaudy day denies. One shade the more, one ray the less, Had half impair'd the nameless grace' Which waves in every raven tress, Or softly lightens o'er her face; Where thoughts serenely sweet express How pure, how dear their dwelling-place. And on that cheek, and o'er that brow, So soft, so calm, yet eloquent, The smiles that win, the tints that glow, But tell of days in goodness spent, A mind at peace with all below, A heart whose love is innocent! BYBON. THE sun had reached its meridian before Robert re- turned.  He found Michael Stockbridge already wait- ing for orders in and about the green-house. Michael fad considerable experience.   Robert, though incred- ulous at first, was soon convinced that Michael was capable of filling his place. But there was Prince, and Lucy's pony, and a thousand little things which he thought no one else could see to as well as him-     HALF-PAST TEN. self. And then he was afraid that Margaret and Jane would not be waited upon to wood and water, and Michael could not read and talk to them as he had been accustomed to. He thought it would be a greater pleasure to him to keep everything in order during the absence of the family, than to obtain his pension; and as for the land he would receive, he had rather some poor man, who had a family, should have it. Upon the whole, he was unreconciled to leaving Wilmington; and he well knew that Miss Baldwin and Mrs. Marsden would be very much missed. Who would be there to administer to the sick? And Lucy, child-woman that she was, was needed among the children and young people. Her influence was silent, but salutary; for the law of kindness was written upon her heart. By example and precept she had done honor to the teachings of her christian mother. Lucy and Leoretta were both as b'usy as bees. Lucy's morning's devotions had given her strength for the duties of the day. One more tribute of love must be given to the poor of Wilmington'before she left. She had been trying to think what she should put up her packages in, which she was to distribute that afternoon, when Leoretta came tugging into the room a very large pair of old-fashioned saddle-bags, saying,   "O, Lucy, these are just the things, are they not"t  "Yes indeed; but where in the world did you get them?"  "I was up in -the attic last summer, and I found these and hung them up. I happened to think they would be just the things you wanted." The saddle-bags were unbuckled, and the girls set about packing them. Many of the bundles had to be unrolled, packed tighter, and pinned closer, for the bags, large as they were, were almost full, and Leoretta's things were not yet put up. "O, Lucy," said Leoretta, "here are the little stockings which I knit for Mrs. Brown's baby; do not leave them out. And here, too, are Jimmy Clark's mittens, and the socks Aunt Lucy gave me to give to just who I had a mind to; and who shall I give them to?" "Let old Mr. Markham have them; he needs them the most of anybody that I know of." Leoretta on feeling about the floor, found under the edge of the bed a large roll of flannels. '"Can we get these in?" she asked; " the saddle-bag are almost full now." "I wonder what they are?" inquired Lucy. "Why, they are the flannels which mamma gave us a long time ago, to give to somebody; and now they     HALF-PAST TEN. are going to old Mrs. Markham. She las the rheu- matism very bad, and the doctor says she must wear flannel. I guess we can get them in, Lucy, if we try hard." "But, dear 'Retta, do put your hand in, and feel how full it is." Leoretta did as she was bid, laughing heartily as she made the examination. "Why, Lucy," said she, "they are as fat as they can stand; but we will di- vide the bundle, and put in part on this side and part on that." "But I am afraid, Leoretta, that we cannot strap them down." "O, yes we can; you know that I am real stout." After a great deal of crowding and pushing, the divided bundle was at last packed in, but it required all the strength of the girls to buckle them down. "There, Leoretta, perseverance has accomplished what a slight effort could not." "That is so, Lucy; I mean always to be perse- vering." "But, 'Retta, I do not know what perseverance will do with those boots Hirome gave us." "What, those handsome calf-skin boots that were too small for him, Lucy?" "One thing is sure-we cannot crowd them into the saddle-bags."   THE ANGEL OF MERCY.   B217   I, S-S   I   "No, for they now look as if they would burst, every minute." "Do you know where the boots are, Leoretta " "Yes, they are in the shoe-closet, and I will run and get them." The next moment Leoretta's little feet were heard patting across the hall, ahd the boots were soon brought into the room, where they whre tied togeth- er; and Leoretta placed within them a pair of gaiters which she had outgrown. "Now I must put on my bonnet and shawl, and be off," said Lucy. "Put onr your blue hood, Lucy-it is real cold; and then it looks so nice. I love to see you look pretty, Lucy." Lucy stooped down and kissed her, and she would have given worlds if Leoretta could have seen her. "Lucy, I will call one of the girls to help us down -with the bags," said Leoretta. "No, 'Retta, the girls are both busy; we can take them down ourselves." The girls took hold of the saddle-bags, and tugged them to the top of the stairs, and with a little effort succeeded in getting them down. Leoretta, fall of glee, gave them a good hearty slapping as they land- ed in the lower hall-laughing as children only laugh,    HALF-PAST TEN. and shaking them up, saying that they were "fat and big enough to walk." "And quite old enough, too," said Lucy. They at length reached a side door, where Robert held the pony, saddled, bridled, and ready for his mission. The girls again laughed heartily, as Rob- ert looked wonderingly at the old saddle-bags. "Where in the world did you find thes a " inquired the old man. "  O,1 found them a great while ago, and thought they would be just the things for Lucy to-day," re- plied Leoretta. "Where shall I put them, Lucy?" asked Robert. "Just hang them across the saddle, and I will get on and be off." "But, child, you might just as well ride on a pill- ion as to ride on those." "Pillion it is, then; put them on, and let me be off;" and the next moment she was on her saddle. "O dear, Lucy," said Leoretta, "there are those boots--Ill run and get them ;" and in a moment she returned with the missing articles. "And what shall I do with these, Lucy?" inquired Robert. "Let me hang them on the horn of my saddle- they will hang nicely there." The old man's eyes were full of fun, as he surveyed   his little prodigy. Mrs. Marsden caught a glimpse of the little pony, and as she passed through the hall, a look-out was perfectly natural. Her eyes met those of Robert, and his pent-up mirth could be no longer restrained. "Whither are you going, my child?" inquired the mother. "I am going down to the settlement, to carry those things you gave us a long time ago; it is the only afternoon I shall have." During the interrogation Leoretta was lifted up by Robert, and was carefully examining bags and boots, as they dangled by the pony's side. "O, Robert," said she, "don't she look funny?" But Lucy had no time to lose. She rened off iito the lane, and pony soon racked away, as if conscious of the mission on which he had started, leaving Leoretta to enjoy her childish sports with her aged friend. "Robert," said she, "I believe just what Lucy told me." "What did she tell you, darling?"  "She said that it was more blessed to give than to receive." "That is true, my child; but I think in this case that the giver and&receiver are both blessed. ^There are many who, though destitute, have a heart to give."    HALF-L'Asr ira-f. "How bad they must feel," said the child, sorrow "Yes, 'etta, they sometimes feel very bad; but if they ate good people, their Heavenly Fatler re- wards then according to the desire of their hearts. As Abraham's faith was accounted for riteoUsnes , so every benevolent desire of the christian's heart is counted to him." 'c There, Bobert,I am so glad our Hfeavenly Father knows all that is in our hearts, for this afternoon I wanted very much to go with Lucy, and help her give the things. I thought I could take some of them and go to one place, while she  as going to another, and that would have made it a great deal easier for her. Then I would have seen them smile, and heard them thank mamma and Aunt Lucy for letting us give them the nice things that we put up in the saddle-bags." Robert pressed the child closer to his heart, and prayed that God would temper the winds to the shorn of his flock.          a Miss Baldwin returned home soon after LEGS left. Mrs. Marsden looked anxiously at her diater'8 pale and sorrowful face, saying, "Sister, you are unusually tired; are there any new cases of sickness I " "Yes, there are several iu the Irish neighborhood,   and poverty, extreme poverty, meets you at every door. Father Mercy is doing all that is in his powerto relieve their wants; but the steam-bhovel has taken from the hands of many the means of obtaining their livelihood. The large excavation which was to be mnade at Snow HillU the Irish expected to have done, but the steanl-shovel has done the work. It is heart- rending to see how sad and wo-begope they look; and their shanties are a miserable substitute for shel- ter. Father Mercy in some cases is physician and nurse; and it is evident to my mind that he enters their hovels to do the inmates good; The druggist told me this afternoon that the priest bad paid for most of the medicine which had been carried into the neighborhood. I was in one of the shanties when lie entered. He had in his hands several packages, which he laid upon a rough shelf beside the wall. He did not observe me at first. His countenance was  marked with unfeigned sympathy. He seemed, on observing me, a little confused, but he soon recov- ered himself, extended his hand, and said, "Madam, your name is Baldwin, if I am not mis- taken. I have heard of you as one who seeks the spiritual as well as the temporal good of the unfortu- nate. In this, Miss Baldwin, I hope we are one. My parishioners regard you as an angel of mercy. Widely differing as we do in many things, there are    HALF-PAST TEN. thngs in which we certainly must agree. Love to God and love to our neighbor, is to each of us a guiding star.' "I made inquiries relative to the sick. He told me that it was ten days since the epidemic broke out; and that he had watched by the sick six nights out of the ten, from sundown to sunrise-those who had employ- ment needing rest. I told him of our Expecting to leave in a few days; but promised to aid him all that was in our power during our stay. There has been already four deaths in the settlement, one woman and three men. I really feel as if I could not leave Wil- mington. If I had health and strength, I would not give the journey a thought; I would stay and labor for the suffering poor of our town." "Does Mrs. McNeil and Floy know anything of this?" asked Mrs. Marsden. "They knew nothing of the sickness at the Irish settlement until told I them, on my way home. Their time and labor have been upon the river; but they told me that the people were better, and they will now have more time to devote to other calls. Mr. Elliot was in the Irish settlement yesterday, and is going again. Mr. Elliot and Mr. McNeil are to mention it in the social meetings this evening. They are both to make a statement of the facts to their people." There are many that were wealthy, who were not   THE ANGEL OF MERCY.   223   only rich in the things of this world, but were im- bued with the spirit of their Master, who went about doing good. Watchmen upon the walls of Zion con- sidered it no condescension to go into the highways and hedges in search of the poor 'and needy. - They did not enjoy the ample support which they liberally received from their people alone, but cheerfully helped to bear the burdens of others. The appeals which they made to their parishioners in behalf of others, were promptly answered. Two committees, at the time above referred to, were immediately appointed to visit the sick at the Irish settlement. One hundred and fifty dollars was contributed to their relief, with directions to call for more when that was expended. The epidemic had assumed a malignant form, and the prospect was that help would be scarce from any other source. And how valiantly did those upon whom the burden rested attend upon the numerous calls made upon their kindness. Night and day, and day and night, for a succession of weeks, they were seen going from house to house, administering in eve- ry possible way to the necessities of those dependent upon their charities. When one set was exhausted, another was ready to take theirplace. Father Mercy walked hand-in-hand with them. There were a few Protestant families living in the vicinity, who soon fell victims to the disease. Children      224       HALF-PAST TEN. and adults were taken sick, one after another, till the settlement was prostrated. It did not prove as fatal with children as with adults. Some of the people of Wilmington were panic-struck, insomuch that they could not be induced to enter the settlement. But there was a valiant army, who marched forward un- daunted, feeling an assurance that the promise of God extended not only to the sixth but to the seventh trouble. "Lo, I am with you," encouraged and cheered them on their errands of mercy.   ,CHAPTER XXII. THE EPIDEMC. All hope on earth forever fled,  A higher hope remaineth; E'en while his wrath is o'er me shed, I know my Savior reigneth. ThA worm may waste this withering clay-- When flesh and spirit sever, My soul shall see eternal day, And dwell with God forever. DALEL IT was indeed a pleasant sight to see Dr. McNiel Mr. Elliot, and Father Mercy mingling together their tears of sympathy around the couches of the sick and dying.  Denominational differences were entirely laid aside; each was about his Mas- ter's business; each feeling the great command, "Love thy neighbor as thyself"Did Father Mer- cy have less confidencein the organization of the Roman Catholic church thanhe formerly had    If he gave it a thought it was the same. And were the others less Protestant in their views, than they were before?-they were alike faithful to their different churches and people. Though the candle blazed at the head of the lifeless remains of one over whom they had watched and administered to, it did not J-     HALF-PAST TEN. break the cord which bound them to the standard of truth. They had often seen the crucifix raised to the lips, when the hand was almost palsied with death, and from their own hearts a silent prayer went up to Almighty God. No proud scorn curled the lips of Father Mercy because the Great Eternal was not ad- dressed through the immaculate mother of the son of God. They often knelt together, each offering his petition in his own peculiar way; the root of bitter- ness was evidently extracted from their hearts, for the love of God made naught but his glory an object. Weeks rolled on, and the epidemic was still un- checked. Then a day of fasting and prayer was ap- pointed, and prayer not only by the churches of Wil- mington, but by the inhabitants generally; prayer fervent and importunate entered the ears of Him whose arm was not shortened that it could not save, nor his ear heavy that he could not hear. The destroying angel was checked in its onward march-the epidemic gradually subsided from that day; but not until some of the rich jewels of Wilming7 ton were removed to the upper sanctuary. Mr. Elliot was one of its last victims. He had la- bored for many weeks in succession with unmitiga- ting zeal and christian kindness. Fdr the alleviation of those sufferers he had entered into the infected cabins and shanties of the destitute sick, until his   I   THE EPIDEMC.   227   delicate constitution gave way. His illness was of short duration, but his bodily suffering was intense. Yet he bore it withthe fortitude of one who'was con- vinced that his Heavenly Father was too wise to err, and too just to be unkind. His mind was clear and tranquil to the last; he was able to conveise but lit- tle. But the words which he spake to his weeping friends, were like "apples of gold in pictures of sil- ver." He was convinced from the irst that his work was done; his Master and his people knew that it was well done. Father Mercy visited him often, and always re- ceived from the sufferer a smile of hearty wel- come; words of christian encouragement fell from the lips of the Romish Priest, or as he was more prop- erly called by his people, the faithful missionary; each feeling that the hand of brotherly love had been cemented in that hour which "tries men's souls," a time above all others that makes men honest. The day of Mr. Elliot's death was one of unairereal mourning. 'He left the world in the triumphs of a living faith. A few moments before his departure he requested Dr. MeNiel and Father Mercy to once more bow before the throne. While one addressed the Father through the merits of the Son, the other, with no less power and sincerity, offered up his petition through the merits of the immaculate Virgin; each    HALF-PAST TEN. petitioning the great I Am to let his blessing descend and accompany the deep affliction that was soon to overwhelm them. The afflicted wife and mother was duly remembered, and the weeping parishoners were not forgotten. They felt as if the judgments of God had been abroad in the land, and that His people, espe- cially those in Wilmington, had more fully learned the lesson of righteousness. The survivors of the epidemic were convinced that God had been near. Many of them had drank deeply of the " wormwood and the gall," and as they looked upon the emaciated form of their pastor, they felt that the dregs were about to be poured out to them. Many took the cup of affliction with a trembling hand, being convinced that their Heavenly Father had poured it out. None possessed that serenity of mind which pervaded the heart of Mr. Elliot. As the two petitioners arose from their knees, he took each by the hand, and with a countenance radiant with celes- tial hope, he said, "My brethren, we have for many weeks been fel- low-laborers in a field of human suffering; we have seen the strong man bowed, withered by a breath; we have each administered to their spiritual and tem- poral wants, to the best of our abilities; and the re- cording angel has made record of the motive which prompted us. Brother McNiel and Brother Mercy,   t4   THE EPIDEMC.   229   will you in this solemn hour promise, in full view of that eye that never slumbers nor sleeps, that you will preach to the people of your charge, Christ and him crucified? Will you point them to the Lamb of God, who can alone forgive sins " The speaker ceased, and the affirmative answer was heartily given. With a faltering voice the dying man said, "Then our separation is only temporary. I go now to my Father." Again all was still. Angels bore the spirit of the faithful pastor to that mansion which Christ had gone to prepare for him. The silence was'only broken by the subdued sobs of the widowed mother and her fatherless children.' The grief which had long been re- strained must now be indulged in. "Jesus wept at the tomb of Lazarus; and may I not weep? ' said Mrs. Elliot. She murmured not at the dispensations of Provi- dence; while she kissed the afflicting rod, and bathed the hand which held it with her tears, that flowed from humble contrition. The counsels of one in whom she had so long confided, had ceased; but their memory and their influence would never be forgot- ten. They were treasured up in hearts that were capa- ble of appreciating them. Her fatherless children she had given up to Him who had promised to be a Father to the fatherless.    HALF-PAST TEN. The bereaved widow drank large draughts of conso- lation from those wells whose waters vivify and make glad the heart of thef mourner. The billows of afflic- tion had passed over one who was not only devoted to her husband, but to heie Master, whose everlasting arm is outstretched in the' day of trial. The funeral of Mr. Elliot was attended by a large concourse of people;,- ho eme: to pay their last tri- bute of respect to one who had been instant "in season and out of season," and whose reputation as a chris- tian and a friend, was widely known. Dr. ceNiel officiated on this-solemn odceasion. Every part of the church was filled to overflowiiig. The man of God Arose before that mnutitude, as one whose lipswere touched by a coal from off the altar. He told them of Christ and him crucified; and held up the sacred oracles of God as the only light that could guide them to those blissful regions where his beloved brother and mutual friend had gone to receive that rich re- ward that was laid up for those who were faithful in Christ. His- manner was so impressive and solemn, that all were made to feel that God: was even there. The services closed; and the weeping multitude followed their friend and brother to his last resting- place, where Father Mercy pointed to the grave that had just received its new tenant-its sacred trust- and thus spoke in tremulous emotions: Fellow citi-   THE EPIDEMC.'      2gIt zens, allow me to say one word to you: follow in the footsteps of our mutual brother and friend, as he has followed Christ whom you profess to adore as your Lord and Master; and when this grave in the morning of the first resurrection shall give up its faithful tenant- you with him will be caught up to meet Christ, who shall appear surrounded with cherubim and seraphim, who now veil their faces before the throne of Him whose presence is life, and whose loving kindness is better than life." The speaker ceased. Amen; even so Father, let it be," responded the multitude. The weepingfriends returned, impressed with the faithful message they had received; convinced that the breath of man was only in His nostrils, and the places which now know them, would soon know them no more. The evening after the funeral Floy McNiel wrote a long letter to Lucy, giving her all the particulars of Mr. Elliot's,sickness, death, and burial; saying to her that she sometimes felt as if she could not be reconciled to her absence, and that it seemed as if they never needed her so much. Mr. Marsden's family left two days after Miss Baldwin's visit to the settlement. Lucy on her re- turn home learned from her aunt the particulars of the sickness there. While her aunt was communi-     HALF-PAST TEN. eating the facts to her, Julia Oakley was announced. Lucy arose to meet her friend. "Dear me, Lucy I was so afraid that I should not find you at home, I did not know what to do " "What made you feel so, Julia?" "Why Joe said he saw you way down by the river settlement, on your pony, with a great pair of saddle- bags stuffed just as full as they could be stuffed; and from the horn of your saddle dangled a pair of boots. But, Lucy, if I had believed all that he said, I should have thought that you had got angry, and was going to elope under the excitement; but he is such a queer fellow to tell a story. Now, Lucy I would like to see you alone for a moment."  I    CHAPTER XXIIL PREPARATIONS FOR     WASHNGTON. "My life!" with tenderest tone, you cry; Dear words on which my heart had doted, If youth could neither fade nor die. To death, even hours like these must roll, Ahl then repeat those accents never; Or change "my life!" into " my soul I " Which, like myalove, exists forever. BYRON.   Lucy led the way to a private room. "Now, dear Lucy, we must talk fast, for mother don't know that I am here." "Suppose she did, Julia, what difference would that make." "Well, dear Lucy, itwould make a great deal of difference, she is so angry that she has. forbidden my seeing you." Lucy's eyes filled with tears, as she said, "I am very sorry; what have I done? Let me know at once, that I may go and make reparation." "Pshaw! Lucy, don't cry and feel bad. I would not have told you if I had thought it was going to make you feel bad. It is only one of mother's ner- vous freaks. She gets angry with me every day, and  HALF-PAST TEN. I don't cry about it. Now cheer up. But I must not waste my time, for I have come to tell you that I have felt very bad about what I have said relative to Cousin Emma. I knew better when I told you, but mother was the cause of all my unpleasant feelings and rude treatment to my cousins. If she had been glad to have seen them and treated them kindly, I should have treated them very differently.' But I sup- pose you do not believe one word I say, I am such a wicked girl; but I have often felt very sorry when I have'treated you unkindly." Lucy's unsophisticated heart could bear no more. She threw her arms around the neck of her friend and burst into tears. "Dear, dear Julia," she sobbed, "if you will con- fess with as much frankness your sins of omission and commission, to your Heavenly Father, you will be much happier than you are. Now let deep repent- snce accompany your acknowledgements to him, and you will find pardon through the merits of Christ. You will not then be a stranger to happiness as you now are; and the path in which you walk will grow brighter and brighter up to the perfect day. I long to have you partake of these joys, that have made me so happy." "Dear Lucy,"replied Julia, in a subdued voice,     PREPARATIONS FOR WASHNGTON.   235 "I have not a pious mother to show me that path of whicii you speak." "But, Julia, you have a bible and a Savior." "I have a bible, Lucy; I have no Savibr." "Do not say so, Julia; you will break my heart if you do." "What I say is true; he is only a Savior to those who come unto him, and I have resolved a thousand times to go to him, but I never have courage enough to take the first step. The thoughts of losing all my friends, and the pleasures my mother says shall be mine, divert my attention, and destroy eveiy good purpose of. my heart. And then the idea of being disinherited, as William has been, is too much for me to think of." "Julia, you would not-be disinherited; your parents would be convinced that there is a reality in religion." "Lucy, they believe it now. They cannot but see the change it has made in William; and what does it do  It only exasperates them, and makes them still more bitter. Mother has already told me that I would become religious before spring, if she did not hurry me off to New York as soon as possible." But I think it is very doubtful whether I go or not, for Colonel Leveret promised to 7rrite me as soon as he arrived in New Yor4; and it is now three weeks since he left here, and I have not heard one word from     HA L-PAST TEN. hint I would be glad of it, if you were only going to stay." "I think, dear Julia, you do your mother injustice - to speak of her as lightly as you do. Let her once see by your daily walk and conversation that you de- sire that better good which alone brings peace and happiness to its votaries, and the false lights which yoU accuse her of holding out to yourview would gradually disappear, one by one, and you would be left to walk unmolested in the light of God's counte- nance. When facts are brought constantly to bear upon the mind, it is impossible for them to pass away withoutleaving their impress. Julia, Igreatlyfearfor you. Your mother's impiety you seem to make your refuge.  But the time will come when this false refuge will be swept away; and it will not avail you then to say 'my- mother was not a Christian.' Your choice ofreadingis calculated to divert your at- tention from religious subjects. You and 1, Julia, are to be separated, and perhaps forever, and I have often felt that I have not done my duty to you as a friend; but I hope you will forgive me, and promise one thing before we part." aWhat is that Lucy V" '( Simply to read your bible." "I find but little pleasure in reading the bible, and dare not promise."   "Do not say -so; you can learn from it many im- portant lessons. You might be very useful this win- ter, even in New York, if you would become acquant- ed with your Cousin Emma and her Aunt Brecken- ridge, and visit with them the poor and eiek." "Dearme, I could not endure it; my nerves are not strong enough. I would not be obliged to followt lthem around this winter? for all California. They X }ive so many days out of a wetk which they devote to thie poor; and do you think, Lucy, I could endure that. They would have to carry me to the lunatic asylum before January." Luey', heart grew sad as she saw the careless air with which her friend answered her. Julia took out her watch, saying, as she- looked at it, 'It is seven o'clock, and I must go. Shall I see you again, dear  Lucy, before you leave town " "I think not," was Lncy's reply. 4 We leave the day after to-morrow. Will yot not go in and bid mamma and Aunt Baldwin good-by? I Julia excused herself, and left her good-by for LU- ey to give. Lucy sighed as she closed the door. She could not fully comprehend Julia's character. When she returned to the drawing-room, to her joy she found Floy McNiel, and her arms were soon thrown around her neck. In the joy of the moment      HALF-PAST TEN. she forgot but what the world was filled with just such kindred spirits. How easy it is for a child to forget .the clouds which obscure only for a moment the brightest rays. If the heart becomes sad, a smile will chase it away; if their eyes are bedimmed with tears, one smile or one glance from a face radiant with hope obliterates every trace of sorrow, and the merry-hearted child laughs on. In Lucy there seemed to be a combina- tion of qualities: while she possessed the simplicity of a child, she seemed to have the judgment of a woman. * This Floy saw, and she loved her, though Lucy was some years younger than herself. She felt that in Lucy she had found a companion and a kindred spirit. This made the prospect of her leaving much harder to be borne. Floy told Lucy that she had several friends in the city of Washington. T There are the Miss Emersons, with whom I became ac- quainted while I was there. -They are good girls, and I hope that they will be of service to you." She told Lucy that she had letters already written to send to them, and had come over that evening, that she might ascertain what day they were to start. "I am sure that they will call on you, as soo80011 as you get settled," said she. Your father is too well known, and too highly esteemed, for you to want for society.   PREPARATIONS FOR WASHNGTON.   239 And I think in Miss Goodrich you will have a very pleasant companion." 'She is a dear, good girl, is she not?" inquired Lucy, warmly. "She seems naturally to have a good heart," an- swered Floy, and religion has richly beautified her native graces." "And is she not very beautiful?" inquired Lucy. "Yes; enough to attract all the attention she will need this winter in Washington." The clock struck nine, and Floy took her bonnet to go home. Robert rose, took his hat, and offered to accompany her, but she assured her aged friend that she was not afraid, and that the wind was blow- ing very cold. But he said that if she had no objec- tion to an old man's seeingh-ber home, he would pre- fer going with her. \ Floy laughed, and told him she was only afraid it was too cold for him-and they started off. The next morning brought letters frolm Mr. Mars- clen, urging them to start as soon as possible, for Robert's presence was much needed.- Everytlhilg was made ready that day to start the following morn- ing, without that confusion which usually attends those who go on a journey. The morning duties were performed-the family bible was read-a hymn of praise sung, and a fervent prayer was offered to     240       HALF-PAST TEN. Him who has promised to be with those who trust in him. The Lord's prayer was repeated in concert, aloud. Margaret and Jane, particularly, felt that their prospect for the winter was lonely. Leave- taking was made as short as possible. Nothing of particular interest transpired on their journey to New York, where they were to stop for Emma They had previously calculated to spend a few days in the city. With them, business always had precedence of pleasure; so they were con- tent with spending one night with Mrs. Breckenridge. There they met William Oakley. He had already entered upon his studies; and Dr. Wilson, his teach- er, was very much interested in him. Emma and William had already,become as brother and sister, and the latter felt that in her absence he should sus- tain a great loss, but March would soon come, and then she would be home again.  Mrs. Breckenridge was active and cheerful. Emma had already taken him with her on her visits to the poor and destitute, and had found great pleasure in administering to the temporal and spiritual wants of those on whom the hand of affliction was laid. He thought, at first, that he should feel some delicacy in going alone; but he resolved to go. Lucy almost envied Emma, when she saw her give a list of the poor to William. With a face sober and thoughtful, she asked herself if she could   PREPARATIONS FOR WASHNGTON.   241 be an angel of mercy to such a district, forgetting that she had ever been one around the couch of the sick and dying in her own native town. She was too simple-hearted to know her own worth. One of the important lessons which she had been taught, was to do unto others as she would that they would do unto her. She possessed a retiring spirit, and this would have kept her much at home, if it had not been for the principles of benevolence which characterized her childhood, as well as her after years; and her physi- cal strength proved insufficient to carry out all her plans of benevolence. But the generous heart of her mother and Miss Baldwin always came to her aid at those times; and had it not been for this, she would have missed her brother very much, for he possessed a large share of his sister's kindness of heart. K*           16  ,      ' * o ,                 -. e *     CHAPTER XXIV. THE WESTERN    SENATOR. He had one beloved friend, An old, old man, with hair of silver, And lips where heavenly smiles would hang and blend With his wise words; and eyes whose arrowy light Shone like the reflex of a thousand minds.  *   *   *    *   * Tearless he was, and scorning all disguise  And what he dare do or think, though men might start, He spake with mild yet unaverted eyes. SHELLY. ON their arrival at Washington, they found Mr. Marsden anxiously awaiting them. The girlswere delighted with  their rooms, for they were large, and the prospect was pleasant. From the windows they had a full view of the government buildings and the grounds surrounding them, which Lucy was never tire'd of describing to Leoretta. The city was crowded with strangers from  all parts of the United States. Foreigners from distant countries, in their peculiar costumes, attracted and amused the girls not a little. Cards and visitors were received every day. It was something of a task for Mrs. Marsden and her sister to arrange the girls' hours of study, but this was at length done. Lucy's German teacher was hired, and Miss Baldwin took charge of her French   THE WESTERN SENATOR.     243 lessons. Her music and drawing was taught by Em- ma and Aunt Lucy, both being competent. Mrs. Marsden did not tax herself and sister to save ex- pense; but she was conscious of the responsibility that rested upon her as a mother, and resolved that the foundation of Lucy's character should be laid by her- self, and those equally interested. She knew that there were teachers who felt the responsibility of their calling, and at some future time she intended to place Lucy under their tuition. One of her greatest cares was the character of her children's reading. The popular works of the day were too exciting for her to consider it judicious for the young mind, whose powers were not sufficiently developed, to look with disgust upon the Deistical errors which are held up to the unsophisticated mind, and looked upon them as  so many snares laid along the flowery path of inno- cent childhood. She thought that'the realities of life should be held up in their true light, to those over whom she had charge. She wished, her children to be lights in the world, and that the light which they should reflect should not be that which dazzles only to blind. She had walked in the path of righteous- ness, and that joy and peace which the world canilot  give had been bountifully poured out upon her. Hei husband felt no less the responsibility of a pa- rent and a christian than herself; and he did not hesitate     HALF-PAST TEN. to let it be known wherever he went, and in the cir- cles in which he moved, that he was a follower of Christ. i The infidel and the skeptic were often con- vinced that it was more than his meat to do his Mas- ter's will. He was known in the senate-chather and in the halls of legislation, as a man that feared God and walked humbly with him. He was not afraid his opponents would rise up and say with a sneer, "( Lo these are the gods ye worship." If he was too pathetic in his appeals to their consciences, it arose from the earnest solicitation he felt for truth. The senator, abroad and at home, was the same, seeking not his own aggrandizement alone, but he acted for the welfare of his country and countrymen, for these lay near his heart, and for these he faithfully labored. Every bill that was presented before the body of  which he had long been a member, he investigated with an unbiased mind, for the sole purpose of ascer- taining the justice of its claim. When every eye flashed with excitement, he remained self-possessed, as one who had studied its merits in a purer atmos- phere than the senate-chamber. He threw not jus- tice into the seething cauldron of political excitement, but the crucible of republicanism was alone allowed to test its value. While others railed at the consti- ) tution, he calmly but boldly defended it; convincing -his bitter opponents of the great fact that it was alone   THE WESTERN SENATOR.     245 the only organ that could bind together our great republic. In a toast he gave before a political meet- ing, he fully expressed the sentiments of his heart. He arose and said: "Fellow-citizens: The United States of America, has become the world's engine; the voice of her people its propelling power; her republicanism its safety-valve. She will circumgirt the-zones and fold to her bosom earth's millionis." The cheers for the senator were thud and long; each listener impressed that a strong man had spoken. Ie returned to his home-the place he most desired -and kindred spirits awaited him, each anxious to ex- press their hearty welcome. Leoretta was the first to catch the sound of his footsteps, so she generally enjoyed the first kiss, and Lucy with frankness gave her father an account of the day. One evening soon after their arrival at Washing- ton, Mr. Marsden had the pleasure of telling Robert that his pension was granted, and that the selection of the land was left to him. "I do not know what I want of land," was his calm reply; "it may as well be in one place as another." Turning to Lucy he said, "I'll leave the selection to you, Lucy." "Well, Robert, if I were to locate land, I know just where it would be."     HALF-PAST TEN.  "Where is that, darling?"' asked Robert. "It would be in the upper peninsula of Michigan, for I have just been reading a long account of the Lake Superior country, and I think I would like to live there very much." "Why are you so partial to Lake Superior?" asked Mr. Marsden.  "Why, papa, because there are so many Indians there, and I thought if one wanted to be useful, there was the place where one might do good." Robert put his arm around Lucy and drew her close to him. With his eyes moist with tear he looked toward Mr. Marsden, and remarked, "Here is a great heart and a kind one in a little body." Lucy laid her face on his shoulder and repeated, "Do not say so, Robert; my heart is prone to wan- der from the God I desire to love." Robert drew her still closer to him and said, "It is prone to wander, darling, but I hope it is sealed for the courts above." Mr. Marsden looked gratefully upon his aged friend and his child, and rejoined, "The fact, Robert, that she is wedded to Truth, gives me more pleasure than to see her the empress of the world; for those who are made heirs of heaven, are kings and priests unto God, and blessed with ' an inheritance which is in- corruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away.'   And could we seek a higher honor for those we love?"  "No, sir; there is no higher honor conferred upon man. 'There we shall be crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality. The din and strife of this mortal life will have ceased, and the palm of victory we shall wave over the absolvilig chaos of the human heart. Glory, and honor, andimmortality await us," again repeated the old man, his mind apparently swallowed up in the prospect that awaited him. He rallied himself, and again addressed Mr. Maisden: "Sir, it has long been our united' payers, that this treasure which I now hold to my heart might be- come the child of God, and when the blessing came, my old heart seemed to drink fresh draughts from those wells which shall be in us like living fountains, springing up into everlasting life. You; I see, par- take of the same joy; and Leoretta is not a straiger to grace and to God. She. has given to in convinc- ing proofs that she is one of those living branches that will bring forth fruit to the glory of God." With a voice choked with emotion, Mr. Marsden said, "To God be all the glory; these are priceless gems in the diadem of our adorable Redeemer." "Yes," repeated Robert, "they shall shine as stars in the firmament of heaven; and is there notmore joy in heaven over one sinner which repentethl than    HALF-PAST TEN. over ninety and nine just persons? Mr. Marsden, I was never xnore deeply impressed with the affinity existing between the just made perfect and the 6hurch militant, than I was at the conversion of William Oakley. Though their presence was invisible to the mortal eye, yet it seemed to radiate the inner Aanc- tuary of the believer's soul. The eye,of faith could easily penetrate the almost transparent veil which separated the prisoner of hope from the ransomed spirits that had gone up from the church militant to  join the church triumphant. Inmylastletter toyou, I think I related the incidents connected with his conversion." "Yes, Robert, and I was interested with the ac- count you gave of it. At that time my mind was very much occupied with the business of the senate. The Missouri boundary line was then agitating every mind, and many there were who seemed wild with excite- ment, and the strong-minded were obliged to make an unusual effort to maintain that equilibrium of character which is so necessary, where petitions fraught with such momentous consequences are laid before us. Sacred as my country's rights are to me, the higher law must govern my actions. Your let- ters were always looked for and read with the deep- est interest, and they often tranquilized mny spirits and made me feel the great responsibilities of my sta-   THE WESTERN SENATOR,.    249 tion. I well remember the fear you expressed whey I was first elected to this office, and I resolved, God being my helper, that your fears shouild never be re- alized. The motto of our immortal Washington I adopted as my own." -  "My God and my country," replied Robert. "This, Mr. Marsden, led him on from conquest to glory, and this, amid political strife and excitement, will lead you * into green pastures, and beside the still waters;. and when your work is done, you can say, with one of old, it ig well done." Mr. Marsden was now summoned into the parlor, where hle met several gentlemen who had -called to pay their respects to his family. Eke was not a little pleased with the ease and grace with which the la- dies received the strangers. Mrs, Marsden's dignity -and self-possession convinced them that they bad called on one who was worthy of their attention. She conversed with deep interest upon those high and moral topics to which ladies of fashion are too often strangers; Miss Baldwin and Emma sang and played in concert several-national airs, much to the satisfac- tion of their visitors. Emma's heart beat quicker than usual, as she was conscious that she was under the eye of criticism. She saw at it glance that they were familiar with the higher walks of life, and were capable of appreciating real worth. Among them     HALF-PAST TEN. was an aged man from the west, who had long held a high and honorable seat in the senate. She had heard her father speak of him, and knew that he cher- ishee for him a profound respect; and many of the north-western tribes sought for his counsel whenever they had business to transact with the government. Party politics had no bearing upon his mind. She respected him for his high moral worth, and was not a stranger to the confidence which had long been re- posed in him by the state which he had long rep- resented. His appearance was venerable, and his countenance bespoke that integrity which had led him to so many deeds of honor. She was conscious that the law of kindness was written upon his heart. When Emma remembered the timely aid that this venerable senator had given her father on his visit to the United States senate, In the sale of the reserved lands belonging to the tribes where he labored, she asked herself how party politics would dare calum- niate the name belonging to one who had for many years devoted his time and talents to his nation's best interests. Her unsophisticated heart could not so] ve the mystery. She had yet to learn that when a poli- tician is thrown into the political scales, his moral principles are unsought for-the majority being the only ballast; therefore, much that she heard and read was a mystery to her. The pure principles of  republicanism she loved, and supposed all in powdr were governed by them; and that this pure fountain sent forth streams clear as crystal, uneontaminated by false ambition, and all-who gazed into its pure depths, sacw unblushingly their own image beautifully reflect- ed, unmoved by the party corruptions of our modern aspirants, and their names remained unpolluted by political demagogues. Could Emma have seen the devastating changes which time has -made, she would have exclaimed in an agony of grief, as every true republican does, "O, Zerrubbabel, Zerrubbabel, thou art fallen; and our strong men and our mighty men where are they? Who, who, shall redeem us from the political chaos into which we have fallen? who is sufficient for these things?2"But Emma knew but little of the whited sepulchres with which she was surrounded. Her nearest and dearest friends were models worthy of imitation, carrying into every department of life those rich combinations of virtues which were worthy of their religious and political character, fitting them for the high stations which they occupied. She was gratified when the venerable senator told her that his daughter was in the city, and that with the consent of Mrs. Marsden, he should embrace the earliest oppor- tunity to have lhem become acquainted.  -     CHAPTER XXV. T H E s ENATOR. The mnan who, In the senate-house, Watchful, unhired, and uncorrupt, And party only to the common weal, In virtue's asful rage pleaded for right Examlple to the meanest-of-the fear Of God, and all integrity of life And manners.      POLLOK. As the gentlemen rose to take leave, Senator Wes- tern turned to Mr. Marsden and said, "TThe friend- ship which has long existed between us has become more sacred than ever. Our families mnust no longer be strangers. If I mistake not, there are two of your family whom I have not yet seen, but I hope on my next visit I shall be introduced to the younger mem- bers of your household." Mrs. Marsden smiled at the simplicity of Mr. Wes- tern's remark, but appreciated the spirit which prompted it, and assured him that Lucy and Leoretta should not be engaged when he next called. A few days only elapsed bfefore Mr. Western and his daughter again called upon their new friends. Mrs. Marsden was much pleased with Miss Westerns appearance. She possessed a highly cultivated mind, and it was evident that she had mingled in the society    THE SENATOR.       253 of those whose intellects were not inferior to her ofH No one could be otherwise than at ease in her pres- ence. She had long before passed the age of " sweet sixteen," and was still uncontaminated by the latter- ies which had been lavished upon her. Lucy seemed to gain a place in her affections at once, and Leoretta's buoyant spirits cheered and delighted her, notwith- standing tears of sympathy glistened in her eyes, as she touched her lips to the upturned brow of her lit- tle firiend. In a voice of tenderness she asked Leo- retta if she would not go with her some day to the museum. "To the museum I "-she repeated, thoughtfully- "O Miss Western, that is not the theater; yes, I will go with you." "Then you would not have gone if it had been the theater " "O no, Miss Western, I could not have gone; my mamma thidks it not a good place; and you do not go, either, do you, Miss Western?" s No, I do not. I think I can spend my time to much better advantage. My mamma would not be willing that I should go. Though I am away from her very often, I never think of going contrary to her wishes. My mamma is an old lady, and is in very poor health." "Then I should think that you would stay with     HALF-PAST TEN. Or all the time," Leoretta replied, somewhat re- proachfully. "My father, dear child, is very lonely here, and I often some to spend the winter with him." "Who stays with your mother, then?" Miss Western smiled upon her interrogator. "I see, dear, that you are rather doubtful of my being in the path of duty, but I have two sisters who are older than myself, who devote their time to my dear mother. I receive letters from them every week, and sometimes when I get very uneasy, I telegraph a 'How do you do,' or a ' Good morning,' to them." "O, Miss Western, I do think that is the funniest way of talking to folks. Sometimes papa telegraphs to us; then we are so happy. Are you acquainted with my papa, Miss Western " "Yes, Retta, I have long been acquainted with him." "But you have never been to see us at Wil- mington?" At this she caught the sound of Mr. Marsden's foot- steps, and ran to meet him. He received her with open arms, as usual, imprinting a kiss of welcome, although his brow was thoughtful, fTr he had been obliged that afternoon to witness the perverseness of the human heart, even of those from whom he ought to have expected a manifestation of those high moral   principles which shquld govern those in whose hasds the destiny of so great a nation was intrusted. But it could be said of Mr. Marsden, as it was of one of his predecessors: "Nature seemed to have stamped the impress of greatness upon him. A states- man--who equaled him in knowledge of government, history and pIblic law? The patriot, whose manly virtues never accommodated itself to circumstances and firm in principles amidst the tides of party; like the ocean rock he remained unshaken whilst surround- ed by storms and tempests, whose talents were al- ways devoted to righteousness; and his voice before the bar ofjustice, or in the councils of the nation, was heard on the side of virtue. How long and arduous in the national assembly did he struggle for the LB- ERTY OF SPEECH, and the inaienale RIGHT OF PE- TIrrON But he finally triumphed in his vindication of these great privileges of our common constitution." The countenance of Mr. Marsden told at that time, as it often did, how deeply he felt the responsibility of -a statesman. Senator Western observed this, as his friend entered the room. Turning from Lucy, with whonihe had just been conversing, he addressed Mr. Marsden: "I see the debates of this morning have stirred the pure fountain of your soul, and still the elements re- main clear as crystal. I watched you intently du-     ;16    HALF-PAST TEN. ring the argument on both sides, and asked myself repeatedly, 'How long will my friend maintain that equilibrium of character which has distinguished him in debate for so many years P' Conscious as I was that the irony and sarcasm of our antagonist was be- neath your notice, I trembled for your safety." "Mr. Western, when I look within my own heart, and rest upon humnan wisdom, I am shorn of nmy strength; bMt when I look to the Great Counselor of nations, I feel like a strong man armed. The effort for the dissolution of the Union is indeed like a paint- ed bauble, or a grain of dust in the balance; but when I see men endowed with reason and intellect, capable of becoming useful, and able to lead men in the paths of rectitude and honor, I say, when I see those men wasting the talents with which they are endowed merely for worldly aggrandizement, then my soul loathes the false ambition of the human heart; when I can see those in the senate and in the legisla- tive halls labor for the maintenance of the republic. on which the pillars of our government stands, shed- ding those effulgencies of light, and radiating every civilized government, causing principalities and pow- ers to pay that respect to us, which many of our legis- lators and senators disdain, by their misguided am- bition, to support. But what -can we expect more from demagogues, governed by sordid selfishness?   Mr. Western, I am often led to exclaim from the depths of my heart, How long, how long, O Lord God Almighty, will thy chariot wheels delay a ' When will our senate-chamber cease to be the place of angry strife If this is an age of improvement, it is a period when the higher law is only regarded by ex- ternal appearances. It is evident to the reflecting mind that its precepts have become as -sounding brass and tinkling cymbals.' Even the right of pe- tition is trampled upon and the freedom of speech would gladly be denied,if those who petition hap- pen to be the minority.. If the spirits of the illustrious dead could weep, they would shed tears of commis- eration over the misanthropy of the present age." These facts had often brought tears into the eyes of the venerable senator, yet he rejoiced that there was still one kindred spirit with whom -he could take sweet counsel. "Well, Mr. Marsden," said he, " we have labored side by side in the senate-chamber, with the same motto-' God and our country'-inscribed upon our helmets, and thus far we have been enaded to keep our armor bright; and as there is no shield for the back, we will press on from conquering to conquer, till one shall chase a thousand, and two put ten thou- sand to flight.' Then from our nation's escutcheon      258       HALF-PAST TEN. shall be wiped those stains which make the true- hearted republican blush." "Mr. Western, not until the dark spots on the ma- terial sun be blotted out, will the dark lines inter- woven with every national history be erased. When the officers of our nation honorably sustain its gov- ernment, my highest hopes will be realized. From finite beings I do not expect infinite wisdom. I sim- ply expect and ask of those in whose hands the destiny of our nation is intrusted, to honorably sustain its rights from principle, and not for party. If the voice of the people build the platform upon which we stand, ought we not to examine its foundation, and see of what material it is formed If every stone is found in its proper place, there will be butlittle danger from the weighty masses which our constituents send here to try its strength. Then all strife will vanish like vapor, and equity will triumph. This year has cer- tainly formed an epoch in our national history, and an era in our political life. Though the great heart of our nation seems at times to increase its pulsations, believe its organization will still perform its func- tions. Then harmony will be restored, and the voice of dissension cease its clamor. I think there is not a man who is worthy the name of man, who honestly desires any change in the constitution of the United States. No, sir, that cannot be. It would pinion the   THE SENATOR.       259 wings of the American eagle, and around our stars and stripes cast a drapery of gloom; and our national sun would set in blood. Every true-hearted Ameri- can is proud of his nation, and tenacious of its honors, though we have been exceedingly harassed by those who have talked loid and long of nullification. I be- lieve there is not one out of five who would not shrink with disgust from it, if one step was taken for its ac- complishment. "The north and south differ no more than we could expect, yet in the fundamental principles of republi- canism we, as a majority, are one; and this is one of the great principles we are sent here to sustain. There is not always so much difference in the princi- ples of politicians as there is in their words. There are those in every organized body whose hearts are nearer right than their heads. They hear the argu- ments of others, and are anxious to distinguish them- selves in some way; so they select the topics on which they can converse with the greatest rapidity, and these more frequently coming from the head rather than the heart. Their ardor excites not only them- selves, but their kindred spirits, until national princi- ples are for the .moment forgotten. They lose sight of themselves as real men, and become the dema- gogues of some infected party. These are they who first sowed the seeds of discord among us; but while     HALF-PAST TEN. they talk of the dissolution of our Union, I know, from sounding some of them, that it is far from their wishes. But they must make a stir and sound some- where, and about something. If every man had not an influence, they would give me no anxiety; but as it is, they are like the little foxes which destroy the tender grapes."  Mr. Western rather musingly replied, "We have a few Samsons among us. Yet there are those pos- sessing skill enough to arrest the influence of these little foxes you refer to, which so much annoy us. I do not apprehend any immediate danger. The great battery that they assail will remain impregnable to their puny assaults. They are like sky-rockets, which go up in splendor and come down in ashes, leaving their admirers to follow another ignis fatuufs, until they are swallowed up in some political quag- mire. Mr. Marsden, my experience with them is more than yours, and when I see them vaunting them- selves in our halls of legislation, and in our senate, I feel for them a ludicrous pity. And while I listen- not always patiently-I sometimes involuntarily re- peat, IO, their end, their dreadful end!' I have ceased to feel as deeply as yourself relative to their- influence, for that I consider Wvill die with them. And when they talk of dissolving the Union, changing the constitution, or removing boundary lines, it has but    THE SENATO&        261 little weight upon my mind. It is a strange exhibit tion ofthehumvan heart destitute of wisdom, soIsome- times follow the command of scripture, by answering. the fool according to his folly,' and sometimes I an- swer him not at all. I have not always the charity which you seem to have, for I do not think their hearts are better than their heads.  We shall always have this class of men to deal with; and we will have to deal with them according to their acts Party spirit and party demagogues will always be on hand to test the republican principles of our states- men. This has been the case ever since the forma- tion of our Union. The veterans of the revolution had to contend not only with foreign powers, but with the tories of our own conutry; their nearest neigh- i bors -were often their most inveterate enemies, and more assiduous in their schemes of anti-republican- ism than the demagogues of the present age. I do not know why we should be surprised at the inon- sistencies of oar antagonists. I feel a strong confi- dene that those who are for us are more than those who are against us . YOu remarked that the present session had formed an epoch in our nation's history and a eta in our political life. In every session of congress for the last twelve years, I have felt the ule; still those marked incidents have vanished into thin air. I have no doubt But that the present      HALF-PAST TEN. legislation will be the same. I may be one of those who cry peace, peace, when Peace has folded her golden wings and has already said, ' Let them alone, for they are joined to their idols; I yet I consider that we are a nation chosen of God, and have been, and are still, his peculiar people. Our mountains and our  valleys are covered with chariots and horses; the scales will soon fall from the eyes of our young men, and they will see our true position." "I hope, Mr. Western, that they will see their own position, which I believe will be the harbinger of a brighter day. Though we wait wearily and some- times impatiently, let us honestly inquire till the darkness flee away, 'Watchman, what of the night 1 "    wonder not the stars are out, to see thee riding by A snd not a breath to break the blue of all that blessed pky: There 'atjla one loud in awnthat dome of God's owl starry thought s One little cloud of Zephyres fleet, left floating there, forgot. Though .evenings sun did gild it, with glories rich and rare; Yet, well might Zephyr sigh again, that left that lowdaet there; For like a banner weirdly wove in wild Campania's loom, That cloudlets volunme swells aloft, as dark and deep as doom Not all thy glory, gentle Moon, ean turn that gloom to gold, NTor all thy silver lure a star to light a single fold. Good night fair Moon I good night again, pale captive of the cloud I've seen a dearer light than thou extinguished by the shroud.  That cloud is edged with silver now; ita gloomeis  webbed with go ld; The stars shine through it everywhere-a pearl in every ford I B  F. TAYo. IF Mr. Marsden sometimes manifested a spirit of impatience, it was because his righteous soul Was vexed at the perverseness of those whose hearts seemed 9 steeped in selfishness; reckless of those high and en- nobling principles which so beautifully characterized his public and private life. He held in the highest esteem all men who were worthy the name of man; but for the sordid and selfish h e had n xo fqlowship. If he held them  in contempt, he pitied and- deplored their misanthropy, and desired most earnestly their      264       HALF-PAST TEN. welfare. His country was dear, and all her rights sacred to him; he could better bear to have his own name calumniated than to have his nation's rights dis- regarded, for those he considered were founded upon the immutable Word upon which he rested. He was indeed like a strong man, armed when he stood up in her defense, and his antagonists, clamorous as they might be, were awed when his clarion voice was heard in his clear and elucidated debates. He courted not the favor of his constituents, but was bold in the defense of what he considered national rights. He earnestly desired to see the American eagle soar away to those etherial regions where she could fold her golden wings far beyond the reach of those who would trammel her in her upward flight, and cause a national requiem to be chanted over what was once his na- tion's pride. Lucy sat quietly ensconced. on the corner of the sofa, listening attentively to the conversation of her father and her friend, her eyes often moistening as she observed the anxious expression of her father's countenance, weighing and appreciating his words as they were uttered. Child as she was, she possessed much of her father's spirit of republicanism. She had already read and comprehended many of the questions which had been agitated in the senate, and her little heart had sometimes swollen with indigna-   VISIT TO THE PATENT OFFICE.  tion, and sometimes with pride, as she read the re- ports that were almost daily received. So the con- versation she had just listened to was notan enig to her.                 e have suspected. Mr. Western had watched her close- the ruce thae nremas reared entirely iathen and hi  osphere  ss but re i thought that she didtl at "Well, dear Lucy, allow me to ask you what you "I do not know that I can tell you; but one thing I can tell--I did otn  reby both w ere so many un- prind th en holdig such re fsponsible station tile saw and heard than th at th ose wou ld be elect haved to ofie uspected     ou c' c onstitutione or seekto dissolve tent, aion I think if those intncould be the fhere whose prie les erea by her fathee nbible then t She woul d be scarcely a dissenting oice" did not "YesL, L ear cy, that is te standard; ad  m en were directed byi the wo r d of God, each one men were dected  by the word ofod  each on L     266       HALF-PAST TEN. would seek his neighbor's good, and ' do only to oth- ers, as he would that others would do unto him.' M1r Western, it seems as if we were hardly worthy to be called a christian nation, when we are not governed by christian principles." Mr. Western was surprised at the force of the child's remarks, coming as they did from one of her years. He was thoughtful for a moment, and then said, "We are only able to discover the depravity of the human heart as circumstances develop its character." Lucy timidly asked if all were alike depraved. "There certainly seems to be a constitutional dif- ference in individuals," replied he. "Education and combined influences have much to do in laying the basis and forming the character of individuals. As the intellect of the child develops itself, the responsi- bility of the guardian increases; but it is too often left in its plastic state to be molded by those whose minds have never been cultivated. Therefore arises the necessity of the most assiduous attention to the education of mothers, for the man is generally what the mother makes him." "Mr. Western, all are not-able to educate their daughters. I have seen children in our own neigl- borhood, who, mamma says, possess minds suscepti- ble of the highest cultivation, and that their parents are not able to furnish them clothing to send them to   VISIT TO THE PATENT OFFICE.   261 the district school; and there are a few mothers among  them who have received a tolerable educon, yet still they seem to deplore, most of all, the lack of these little necessities, scarcely giving their education a thought.". "I do not doubt, Lucy, that such cases are numer- ous, but circumstances have often crushed the spirits and blighted the hopes of those who would have once thought it impossible for them to be indifferent to the cultivation of minds intrusted to their care. But there are angels of mercy, whose untiring attentions are aiding our free schools, insomuch that all classes may receive an education sufficient for the stations  they will be called to fill. I hope you are of those  who will assist these care-worn mothers to bear these heavy burdens to which you have referred. There are hundreds in the city who need your aid. I have found it a delightful employment to devote part of my leisure in searching out the indigent families who have been overlooked by others; and I have esteemed  their tears of gratitude and their prayers a greater  honor than the proudest monument which could be  erected to my memory; for one has been bottled up by Him who has sai, 'The-hairs of our head are numbered,' while the other has bebn recorded by the archangel in the Lamb's Book of Life. Every truly benevolent person finds it more blessed to give than -   :ha  .     HALF-PAST TEN. to receive; and it is not  unfreq uent that both are blessed." Lucy's tears told her venerable friend that she had proved his last remark to be true. Mr. Western and Lucy's attention was arrested by Leoretta singing a favorite piece, called "The Moth- er's Hymn."   Mr. Western listened- with  attonish- ment, while her sweet voice accompanied with un- varied exactness the instrument on which she was playing. The venerable senator and Lucy moved to the side of the piano, and listened attentively to the -following words: "There sitteth a dove so white and fair, All on the lily spray, And she listens how to Jesus Christ The little children pray. Lightly she spreads her friendly wings, And to Heaven's gate hath sped, And unto the Father in Heaven she bears The prayers the chidren said. "Andback she comes from Heaven's gate, And brings-that dove so mild--. From the Father in Heaven who hears her speak, A blessing on every child. Then, children, lift up apious prayer, It hears whatever you say, That Heavenly dove, so white and fair, All on the lily spray." Mr. Western stood motionless with downcast eyes, and he seemed, involuntarily, to repeat-- beautiful, beautiful."   Miss Western laid her hand gently upon her father's shoulder and inquired, "Is it not a combination of beauties? It was taught Leoretta by Lucy, together with the many pieces she has favored us with this morning. They will bear the criticism of the most fastidious. I see no obstacle to her becoming a scien- tific musician. Her ear is exceedingly sensitive to the slighest discord, and now I must fulfill the promise I made, to take her to the museum, where she has en- gaged to accompany me if Lucy will go with us." The girls were soon on their way. The day was warm and bright, ,and they chatted merrily along, scarcely able to make themselves realize that it was winter. Miss Western and Lucy described everything that fell under their observation. On entering the building containing the ancient and modern curiosi- ties, Lucy's face grew thoughtful. Her mind evi- dently had turned back to the time and circumstances under which each article had been placed there. She read the names with care, -and described each relic. with such ininuteness that Leoretta often exclaimed, "I see it! I understand it!-and I know just how-it looks!"-convincing them by some appropriate com- parison that she did understand and appreciate their efforts to interest her, and enlarge her ideas of those objects which they had come to examine. A num- ber of the cases were opened, where the most select      270       HALF-PAST TEN. articles were deposited, so that Leoretta could exam- ine them more minutely; and that which was not tangible was adroitly described by Lucy, so that everything which she saw through the medium of the optic, was seen mentally by Leoretta. As her ray- less orbs filled with tears her heart swelled with grate- ful emotion to her Heavenly Father, for giving her so many kind friends, and especially for Lucy, who never seemed weary of administering to her tempo- ral, spiritual, and intellectual wants. The strong affinity which existed between the two girls was re- markable; their tastes, desires, and aspirations were the same. Lucy's fruitful mind often suggested ideas which enabled her sister to surmount obstacles that at first seemed too formidable for the most hopeful to think of removing. Lucy proposed to Miss Western a visit to the Patent-Office, for her sister's especial benefit. Miss Western smiled at the proposal, but consented at once to gratify her. Lucy seemed not a little sur- prised as she looked around on the medley of inven; tions which met her eye in every direction. "How can I describe these things to my sister; the utility of half I see I do not understand." Machinery and agricultural implements in miniature were on every hand. After standing a moment in mute surprise, she turned to Miss Western and observed,   VISIT TO THE PATENT OFFICE.   27- "Here are a 'thousand and one-articles of which I neither know the name nor use, and I am afraid dear Leoretta will have little enjoyment here. I wish Emma had been able to come with us; she knows a great deal more about such things than I do. Were you ever here befbre, Miss Western?"  "Yes, I have been here a great many times." ".Then, if you please, tell us all you know of what we see; if you will we shall be so glad." "I will do my best, and there is an intelligent look- ing gentleman who I think willaid me." The gentleman's services were soon obtained, and he cheerfilly told, them he would describe the arti- cle in which he was most interested, first-laying his hand upon a steam engine. "I understand the philosophy of this model the best of any that are deposited here," said he. "It is one that I built myself." le soon discovered by Lucy's movements that Leo- retta was blind, but it did not discourage him; he saw at once that she was capable of comprehending everything which was tangible, and often noticed those things, by inquiries respecting their utility, to which the other visitors would not have given a thought. As he was describing the safety-v'alves to her, and the effect the steam had upon them, she replied,     272       HALF-PAST TEN. "I think, sir, 1 understand it; they have the same effect upon this part of the machine that air has upon the lungs." "Or the will over the body," rejoined Lucy. The gentleman smiled at their remarks, and re- sumed his description, until, the model was complete- ly dissected. The girls were delighted. Thegentlemanproved himself as familiar with other models, as with the previous one, insomuch that Leoretta's ideas of ma- chinery were very much enlarged, so that things which before were enigmas to her, she now fully under- stood. They spent several hours profitably here- hours that were never to be forgotten by either of the party.                   , Lucy, on her return home, told her parents of their interview, and the opportune assistance they had re- ceived from the stranger. Mr. Marsden drew Lucy to his side, and told her that her new friend, Miss Western, was to leave the city that evening. "Why, dear father, how you surprise me!" "Yet her surprise, dear Lucy, is a sorrowful one; her father has just received a telegraphic dispatch, in- forming him that Mrs. Western can survive but a few days." Lucy sighed, because she could not visit her friend   VISIT TO THE PATENT OFFICE.   273 before she set out on her mournful journey. Shehad heard her say several times during the day that  God was love," and she was anxious to know wheth. er her friend in her affliction would acknowledge Him as such. She inquired more anxiously of her own heart, "how it would feel under similar trials." It is easy for the christian, in the day of prosperi- ty, to say " thy will be done;" but when the dark clouds of sorrow gather around him, and the gloom of the grave opens to his view, it requires the exer- cise of a living faith to look serenely-up and say, "Even so, Father, for so itseemeth good in thy sight;" "not my will but thine, O God, be done." Every christian grace must be tried in the crucible, until ihe image of the refiner isrefleeted. W lknow but little of the graces which are to form the christian character. I*         -18     CHAPTER XXVII. THE  OLIVE   BRANCH. All stainless in the holy white  Of her broad mantle-lo I the maiden cometh; Lip, cheek, and brow serenely bright, With that calm look of deep delight- Beautiful, on mountain-top she roameth. The soft gray of the brooding dove, With melting radiance, in her eye she weareth; Her heart is full of trust and love; For an angel mission from above, In tranquil beauty, o'er the earth she beareth. The music of Humanity, Flows from her tuneful lips in sweetest numbers; Of all life's pleasant ministries- Of universal. harmonies-- She sings; no care her mind encumbers/ Glad tidings doth she ever sound; Good will to man throughout the world is sending; Blessings and gifts she scatters round; Peaceto her name with whom is foundl The olive branch, in holy beauty bonding. MM XL F. EAMES Luoy had often looked tearfully upon the dark clouds in other skies, wondering how long her own would remain cloudless. At the family altar that night, as her father pleaded earnestly that sustaining grace might be imparted to his venerable friend, her   THE OLIVE BRANCH.      275  desires went up in unison, that the affliction might be sanctified, and that the bright rays of her Redeemer's face might shine through -and irradiate the dark drapery of gloom which encircled those she loved. In a few days they received a dispatch informing tlemln of Mrs. Western's death! Mr. Western was obliged to return as soon as possible to his post of duty, his countenance bearing those marks of sorrow, with which a stranger mueddletlh not. The Christmas holidays at length came. Mr. and Mrs. Marsden resolved to make them as pleasant as possible to their family, adopting, in part, the Ger- man method of keeping them. They had not to teach their children what it was to commemorate, as that had already been taught them. Presents, such as they thought would please and interest them, were selected. A Christmas-tree was purchased and set upon a thick board weighted with lead, on which was made a garden, containing a couple of shepherds, a few sheep, and a dog. An angel with golden wings hovered over the top of the tree, as if proclaiming the glad tidings. After they had returned home from the chapel, the doors of the long-closed room was thrown open, and a scene of fairy-land splendor burst upon the delight- ed gaze of the children whom they had invited. The room was brilliantly lighted; tables covered with     9276      HALF-PAST TEN. beautiful presents stood on either side of the apart- ment; while the Christmas-tree was crowded with little wax tapers and hung all over with glittering bonbons and showy toys.  The children walked around it, too much charmed even to speak their admiration. Miss Baldwin and Emma were delightfully em- ployed in the distributing of gifts. Leoretta's face beamed with pleasure, seeming to know from instinct all that was around her; for in a shorter time than a stranger could have imagined, Lucy had given her a description of the room; after which, she led her to a side table upon which lay several large volumes, beau- tifully bound. Laying Leoretta's hand upon them, she asked her if s]e knew what they were. "Yes, here are six big books, the largest ones I ever saw." "Open them, Leoretta, and see what they are." She complied with her sister's request, and with a voice and countenance expressive of more real sor- row than Lucy had ever seen her manifest, answered, "These volumes comprise the bible." "Why, Leoretta, are you so sad?" inquired Lucy, "I thought you would be pleased with them." Leoretta's bosom heaved with emotion, but she was unable to speak. Lucy placed her arm around .her, and gently leading her to an adjoining room, seated her   THE OLIVE BRANCH.      2" by her side-neither of them being able to speak. Leoretta leaned her head upon her sister's shoulder, and the tears fell fast from her rayless orbs. Luce at length asked her to tell the cause of her grief. Af- ter a deep struggle with her feelings, she said, in a voice scarcely audible, "Forgive me, dear sister, forgive me, for causing you so much pain; but I never realized before that I was blind." "What makes you realize it so fully now?" "I do not know as I ought to tell; perhaps she did not mean anything." "Who have you reference to, Leoretta " "Why, Miss Emerson-just before you came to lead me to the table where my bible lay-asked me for the bouquet of violets which Emma had given me; and I told her that I did not like to let them go, as they were a present. She said she did not see what a blind person wanted of flowers, as they could not see their beauty; and more than that, she would be ashamed to be seen carrying them. She should think I would not want to be in a place where there were so many beautiful things, not being able to see any of them. She should think I would be a great deal happier in my roomy alone, than I would be there, pretending that I could see everything." Leoretta's head again drooped upon Lucy's shoul- ;                 En     2T8u 3   HALF-PAST TEN. der, and again they mingled their tears. Lucy drew her sister closer to her, and begged her to dry her eyes. "It was very cruel, dear Retta," said she, "for her to talk so, and spoil your happiness for the evening;" and she might have said, for days. "I am  convinced, Leorettal that Mjiss Emerson's blindness is more to be deplored, than yours," she continued; "for it is but a short time, at most, that we shall need the light of the literal sun to illumine the path of our earthly pilgrimage. I would not have you think that I do not appreciate the gift of sight-it is of great value to those who enjoy it; but I would rather be temporally blind than spiritually, for spiritual things are spiritually discerned. Our Heavenly Father sees the end from the beginning, and knows in what way we can best glorify Him; and I hope, my dear sister, that you will lie passively in the arms of Him who is too wise to err, and too just to be unkind. He will lay no burden upon you which he will not assist you to bear. He has prom- ised to temper the winds to the shorn of his flock, and he has also promised not to break the bruised reed; and he is able to make it an instrument of praise, on which is inscribed, in letters of indelible glory--' Hal- lelujah to the Lamb which was slain to redeem us and bring us up out of great tribulation; ' and put a InI   \       1  THE OLIVE BRANCH.    279 new song in our mouths, 'even praise to the Most High.' When you and I, through the merits of Christ, reach the celestial city, there will be no In' moon, or stars; and yet there is no night there-it is one eternal day. Yes, dear sister, happy thought it is: 'There God, the Son forever reigns, And scatters. night away.' How often I have heard our dear mamma sing, 'When shall I reach that happy place, And be forever blest; When shall X see my Father's face And in his bosom rest.-  We only see here through a glass, darkly, but there we shall see as we are seen; our light afflictions are but for a moment, and they will work out for us a far more exceeding weight of glory. You know that I read to you to-day, 'Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man to con- ceive of the glory which awaits the faithful of God.' The true child of God will cheerfully submit to the  will of our Heavenly Father, and say,' Even so, for it seemeth good in thy sight.'  "I do not weep, dear sister, because Ifeel as if God was not good; but because my heart feels so sad. I do not know why it is; there was something so un- kind in Miss Emerson's voice. She is not at all like her cousins who weil with her the other day. I          ,' .*             i     1HALf-PAST TEN. loved them very much; they talked beautifully to me." "I hope, dear Leorettw, that you will not cherish hard feelings toward Miss Margaret." "I shall rot." "Now let us go back into the room, for our absence will be noticed."          I The girls joined their company, but Lucy did not suffer her sister to leave her for a moment. She saw with pleasure the effort Leoretta made to subdue every emotion that might betray her feelings, and was not a little gratified when she saw Leoretta pre- sent Margaret with her violets. Sober her little face loobedj but it bespoke the kindness of her heart. Miss Baldwin noticed that Lucy's and Leoretti's spirits were not as buoyant as usual, but they exhibited a subdued heerfulness which rendered them  still more lovely than before. At an early hour the invited guests went home, and the domestic circle quietly enjoyed -the hymn  of PDrai , and the voice of prayer bespake the gratitude of every heart. Robert led the devotions of the eve- ning, and as usual, he had remembered indiidnally every member of the family, whether present or ab- sent, with all the fervor of fraternal love. Lucy had often, through the day and evening, thought of her brother; and Robert's earnest prayer was for the   preservation of the honor which should adorn the Christian, making him one of the strong pillars in the spiritual temple, and a living member of that church which " is as a city set upon a hill, whose light can- not be hid," and one of those faithful votaries who stand upon the walls of Zion, weeping over the deso- lation of the human heart, as Christ wept on Mount Olivet over the devoted city, and cried '"O Jerusa- lem! Jerusalem! how oft would I have gathered you, even as a hen gathereth her brood under her wings; but ye would not."' Robert knew .and realized the dangers of a college life; he had shed bitter tears over his own fall, while he trembled for the safety of Hirome. He knew that hidden snares were laid for his, feet, and that the siren's song had power to lure the unsophisticated mind from the!' highway which is thrown up for the redeemed of the Lord to walk in." He also knew that in the exercise of a living faith the weak became strong, and the strong man of sin was shorn of his strength. He often wrote to Hirome, for whom he. felt so much solicitude; and his letters were never unwelcome messages, but assisted him materially, as he had often said, to form that strong barricade which proved impenetrable to the assaults of those who en- vied the high position of Hirome Marsden. Mr, Goodrich's unwavering piety was of intrinsic     HALF-PAST TEN. value to him. During Lucy's stay in Washington her brother's letters were of more value to her than they had ever been before; they were more spiritual, and bore strong evidences that the science of religion was interwoven with his highest ambition. As he advanced in his intellectual pursuits, his desire for a life of usefulness increased. The time he devoted to his correspondents in Washington he considered well spent. Lucy's and Emma's letters were to him like angel's visits-though "not few nor far between." Lucy's time was all occupied, as she had her routine of duties to perform; and much-time which would have been leisure to others, she spent with her aunt in visiting those families that Mr. Western had spo- ken of as being overlooked by others-her venerable friend often accompanying them to those scenes of suffering where lessons of patient endurance could be learned. Miss Baldwin one day, after a long walk with her niece, gently hinted her intention of leaving the United States, and taking up her residence in England. Lucy was silent for a moment, and then burst into tears. It was some time before her aunt could console her. She was obliged to refer to cir- cumstances which she had never mentioned before. Lucy saw the pain it caused her, and reproached her- self for not being able to command her emotion. She knew that her aunt had been beloved and her society   courted by those of another hemisphere, but she-had not thought she would yield to their earnest entreaties till then, though she had been long urged to become the guardian and protector of those who were bowed down by the weight of years and the afflicting hand of Providence. Miss Baldwin had designed for many years, if duty called her, to devote the remainder of her life to the parents of him to whom her early love had been de- voted. After the death of her intended husband- Mr. Blavette-she had been cherished and loved by his parents as their own child, who had often urged her to become one of their family; but not feeling  herself able to endure the associations of the past, she had put them off from time to time, until they were left childless and alone. The path of duty was now made plain before her, and she informed them that she would comply with their request early in the spring.    CHAPTER XXVIII. FASHONABLE LIFE. Wasted moments I wasted moments I Golden sands, From Life's hour-glass often dropping, Thrown by reckless hands away, How ye're scattered day by day, On the way-side, lost for aye. Search and labor, all is vain, None can gather ye again. Precious moments I precious moments! How ye go I Bartered oft for sinful pleasures, In whose fleeting smiles we find Ceaseless anguish for the mind, Sorrow only left behind- What shall be the depth of pain-- Wasted moments, claimed again I Precious moments! precious moments! Deathless soul I Look upward far beyond the skies, Life is there without its close--- Climes where no rude tempest blows-. Founts whence living water flows-- Crowns where dimless glories shine- If thou wilt, these all are thine I E. W. CAswEU IT is with cheerfulness that the christian searches for the path of duty, and how    eagerly he seeks the providences of God, though they sometimes sever the   FASHONABLE LIFE.    285   tenderest tie of the human heart. But then, willing obedience proves their love to be invincible, making them bright and shining lights il the world, dispers- ing the moral darkness with which so great a portion X our earth is enshrouded. How inconceivably gret the contrast between the christian and the vo. taries of fashion, who go the giddy rounds of pleasure, seeking happiness in those things whose sting diffuses poison through the moral life, more deadly to inhale than the breath of the' upas tree. The winter that Lucy devoted to intellectual and moral improvement, beautifully developing her na- tive talents, was' spent by Julia Oakley in New York, in pursuit of that happiness which her ambitious mother had prepared her for. Julia joined her friends in New York early in De- cember. Her outfit was thought to be a' splendid one, at least by Mrs. Oakley; but on Julia's arrival at the great metropolis, she found there were a great many things wanting to enable her to compete with her associates, and that made her wretched; She found the Leveret family, with whom she was to spend her time, fastidious in their taste of dress, and ex- pecting more of her than was possible for them to re-' alize. She fancied herself acquainted with city life, and familiar with fashionable circles. How often did she shed vexatious tears when she saw others tak-      286       HALF-PAST TEN. ing the preference, and receiving those attentions which she so much coveted. Her heart was at once filled with jealousy. Envy robbed her'even of the little enjoyment she might have had; If Colonel Leveret bestowed his attentions upon auother, was sure to make herself as wretched aspos e. She longed for the Christmas holidays to come, for she thought their society would be less select, and she would appear to a better advantage. Yet she was disappointed in that, for they brought with themi their trials. In public assemblies she felt more secure than in private 'tete-a-tltes. Near the close of the holidays Julia was invited to Mrs. Stanley's, and she certainly needed a new party dress. After troubling herself for several hours to find out what it should be, she put on her bonnet and cloak and started for Bleecker street, where she had a friend whom she thought would be able to make a proper selection. She had a long, cold walk before her, but that made no difference to her, as she resolved not to let her plan be known at Mrs. Leveret's, but surprise them on the evening of the party. Her ring on Bleecker street was answered, and she was shown into a spacious parlor, where she found Mrs. Wykoff and her daughter Anna. "I am surprised to see you, Julia, this boisterous day. Why did you not ride?"   FASHONABLE LIFE.      287 "O dear Anna, I am on important business; I want to consult you on my dress to-morrow evening; and I wish you to go with me and select it." "Pardon my interference, Miss Oakley'; I do not Anna to enter into any engagements without owing the particulars. Why did you not con- sult the Misses Leveret in regard to your dress? Theirjudgment and good taste are just what you need. I never allow Anna to trade to any amount unless I am with her."  "I often think, dear Mrs. Wykoff, that the Misses Leveret feel that I' sometimes drq, too largely upon their judgment and taste, so I thought that this course would give them rather a pleasant/surprise. It is not from a want of confidence in my friends that I wished to consult Anna. I hope you will pardon me for do- ing as I have." Miss Oakley's honesty was admired by her new friends, but they thought-that she had acted unwisely. "' I would willingly order my carriage and take you shopping this afternoon, but I think you had better at least consult Mrs. Leveret before you make your purchase." Julia started out somewhat crest-fallen; but she was determined to have her dress 'before she went home. After a long walk down Broadway, she found the store which she was in search of. Silks and satins,     288       HALF-PAST TEN. striped, figured, and plain, were examined; but there were none of them sufficiently rich to suit her taste. Her eye at length caught sight of a splendid piece of rose-colored satin. Finding that it was only thj dollars and a half per yard, she resolved to t And now that she had got her a dress, she m her dress-maker before she went home; but at would take her out of her way. The day was already well-nigh spent. She thought by taking a carriage that she would accomplish her business, and as she seated herself in a hackney coach, she felt relieved, and was soon on her way to her dress-maker's. But now she was in a dilemma, for she had forgotten the number; but after a long search she found the place. As she alighted, the footman told her she must be quick, as they could not wait for her. But her dress-maker was very busy with another lady, and it was a long time before she could receive any attention; and when she went out to enter her car- tiage it was quite dark, and it was a long drive to Mr. Leveret's. She did not know what apology to make for her long absence. She found the family at tea on her arrival. There were no questions asked her, but she knew from Mrs. Leveret's looks that she was not pleased. As soon as the cloth was removed, Julia sought an interview with Mrs. Leveret; for she resolved to tell her all,   FASHONABLE LIFE.      289 and run the risk of her displeasure. She had often thought of Lucy that afternoon, and the many lessons of integrity taught her by precept and example had en her strength to ask her friend into the library. losed the door, and turning to Mrs. Leveret she "' My dear Mrs. Leveret, I want to tell you of the  siy project that I took into my head this afternoon, and beg your forgiveness for it ;" then she frankly told her what she had done. Mrs. Leveret smiled at the frankness and simplicity of her confession; then placing her arm around her waist, she drew her close to her, saying," I hope, miy dear girl, that I shall prove myself worthy of your confidence. I was once young and silly, like you?- self. It is a good many years ago, but I haye not for- gotten it. Be guided by one whose experience has taught her that 'honesty is the bestpolicy.' Iwill go as you request me, to-morrow morning, to your dress- maker, see the dress, and select the trimmings." "Do, dear Mrs. Leveret, it will give me more pleas- uro han surprising you with a dozen satin dresses." ' From that time Julia was the favorite of Mrs. Lev- eret. 'Her dress was made and exquisitely trimmed) and for the first time Mrs. Leveret was proud of presenting her. Julia had not become quite acoustomed to brilliant party rooms. Mrs. Leveret was constantly by her 1M          19.     HALF-PAST TEN. side, and she felt less awkward than at any previous gathering  If Julia waslikelyto become bewildlered in her conversation, Mrs. Leveret came to her aid. Colonel Leveret saw with pleasure the attention^ his mother, but could not define the cause ofJ change. Julia's prospects were brighter for se eC ks, when, unfortunately, her mother joined her. Mrs. Oakley was not to spend her time with Mrs3. Leveret, but with a relative. It was evident that she-was bound to cause a sensation, if monoiey .could purchase it. Theaters, parties, and balls were at- tended by her. Thinking that Julia did not have as good an opportunity of enjoying the fashionableI sea- son with Mrs. Leveret as she would witlh her, sale resolved to have her becolle an inmate of lher rela- tive's family. She called on Mrs. Leveret, and pleaded her ill-health and nervous inability to live without her daeghter. Mrs. Leveret had already become attached to Julia, but was obliged, b)y the entreaties of her mother, to yield. Julia ventured to ask of her mother the privilege of visiting William, but Mrs. Oalkley almost fainted at the suggestion. She at length told her that her absurdity was'almost intolerable. "Look at the trouble and expense I have been to, to make you what you are-beloved and respected; shining as a particular star in every circle in which X   FASHONABLE LIFE.      291 ; your attractions riveting every eye, and the admiration of all. After I have made  s, you will madly throw yourself away by   t:a e society of one who has justly been disin- id has been obliged to accept the charities      !? and instead of becoming a medical student, 'come an errand-boy for some mercantile     ' ' :ened with astonishment. "Dear mother,"          : you can prevent my seeing him, but I shall        : itil he proves himself unworthy of my love.  ie, mother, if you have seen him since you  ;he city."  have passed him twice as I was riding out   '? fWoodbury; only day before yesterday, wn, I saw him with both hands full of pa- ;ckages. He looked as though he was an, for some grocer or dry-goods man. Fortu-  tght it was that the gentleman did not   '- muld you pass him, dear mother, without          E and wish you to do the same." ") I certainly have called upon him before  ,re, if I had known Mrs. Breckenridge's saw William's name once in the papers." name in the papers!-what do you mean,     HALF-PAST TEN. Julia I hope he has not been getting into any trouble, to disgrace us more than he has . "Do not be alarmed, mother; he will not be sent to Blackwell's Island for accepting the office of treW, urer, to which he has been elected by the YE Men's Relief Society."           e "I should like to know where he could get funds to join such a society." "Probably, mother, Lucy's words have proved true-' when his father and mother forsook him, the Lord took him up."'  "Julia, I wish you would stop talking to me in that strain; the Marsdens will prove the ruin of all my 9 children." t I wish in my heart, mother, they would ruin me  as they have themselves. Then I should be happier than I now am." These are the thanks I receive for what I have done for you, and am still doing, ungrateful girl that you are." Here imrs. Oakley burst into a fit of hysterical weep- ing Julia had too often witnessed such paroxysms to have it cause her any great amount of uneasiness. She loved her mother, though she contrasted her sometimes with others; and as she became more ac- quainted with the world, she sighed for the more sub-   stantial precepts and examples which were given by mothers possessing well-balanced minds.' Her last interview with Lucy made a strong im- pression upon her mind; and she had striven against damning her mother, and was careful not to charge with her own imperfections. These, with many other hints which she had received from her friend, had been like hidden diamonds, too brilliant to be long obscure. Home influences sometimes dimmed their luster; but their purity could never be oblit- erated. Tlhey often, that winter, came up before Ju- lia, and under ordinary circumstances would have been effectual in renovating her character; but balls and parties must be the watch-word of the day,- or she would incur the displeasure of her friends. Mrs. Oakley discovered, soon aftek her arrival in the city, that Colonel Leveret's attentions to her daughter were simply those of friendship, which ex- ceedingly annoyed and wounded her pride. Yet she was not to be thwarted in making a conquest for- her daughter that winter and when she discovered Mr. Woodbury's partiality for Julia, she cherished the most sanguine hopes of her daughter's future hap- piness.     CHAPTER XXIX. TIE  SELECT   PARTY. When Friendship or Love Our sympathies move, When Truth in a glance should appear, The lips may beguile With a dimple or smile, But the test of affection's a Tear. Too oft is a smile But the hypocrite's wile, To mask detestation or fear; Give me the soft sigh, Whilst the soul-telling eye Is dimm'd for a while with a Tear. Mild Charity's glow, To us mortals below, Shows the soul from barbarity clear; Compassionwill melt Where this virtue is felt, And its dew is diffused in a Tear. BYRON. MiI. WOODBURY'S dress was in exquisite taste, and his manners quite captivating. To the class of minds to which Mrs. Oakley belonged, he was the embodi- ment of perfection. But Julia could not discover in his character any of those excellences which so charmed and interested others. She constantly an- noyed her mother by mincing and mimicking him.   THE SELECT PARTY.      295 As soon as he left the room, she would often try to raise her chin to the level of her forehead, and with her hand pushing back her hair as far as possible, then arching her eyebrows in the most ludicrous man- ner, would beg to know if she did not look almost as intellectual as Mr. Woodbury. Seating herself by the side of her mother, in the greatest agitation she would sieze her mother's hand and beg the priv- ilege of making love to her--"as your favorite, Mr. Woodbury, did to me." Sometimes Mrs. Oakley would leave Julia in a rage, threatening to send her home by the next train of cars; at another time she would laugh herself al- mo:.A into convulsions, fretting at, and scolding her in the same breath. Julia knew that reasoning with her mother was in vain; therefore she resolved t9 disgust her, if possi- ble. She was obliged to treat Mr. Woodbury with apparent respect in the presence of her mother, not however, because she considered him worthy of any- thing more than common civility. She had learned more of real life during her stay in New York than she had ever known before. Colonel Leveret and his mother, and the society in which they moved, had been of great benefit to her. The change which Mrs. Oakley had made in Julia's position was far from be- ing an advantageous one, and Julia was already con-     296       HALF-PAST TEN. vinced of this. Though Colonel Leveret often called, he was prompted by no other motive than that of friendship. He managed the caprices of her mother with skill. Her ambition made her respect his position, and Julia sometimes upbraided herself for feeling that her mother could not appreciate real worth. As she mingled in the society of the intellectual, she sighed for an opportunity to improve her own in- tellect. One evening, after having dressed for a bril- liant party, and while waiting for the carriage, she asked her mother to let her attend a celebrated school, telling her she felt herself unfit for society with her present education. With more persuasion and gen- tleness than usual in her manner, she said, "Dear mother, I think my gay attire has little to, do in making the character of a lady, it is impossibte  for me to appear unermbarrassed. Give me the ad- vantage of a thorough education, and your highest hopes shall be realized. -I will be all to you that it is possible for a child to be to a parent. It will not cost you half as mich as our present mode of living."' "Julia, your proposal is absurd; your hand is al- ready sought by one who is worth his thousands.' "Yes, mother, but in reality he is a bankrupt. He may possess riches, but he is destitute of mind and, I doubt not, of principle." * ^  'i   THE SELECT PARTY.      207 At this the servant announced the carriage. The coach soon drew up befora an illuminated edifice, where many of the gay votaries of fashion had al- ready assembled. The ladies were shown to the dressing-room, where several were arranging their jewels. Julia finished her toilet with a grave face and thoughtful countenance, and then watched in- tently the frivolities of others. She heard with dis- gust the flatteries bestowed one upon another, and thought how Lucy's heart would be pained if she  could see those who were eternity-bound thus wast- ing their time and money; "and I am forced to be one of their Lumber," said she. "A short time ago I could see no harm in it, but now I have no relish for it, and wish myself away. One hour with Lucy would be of more value than a whole winter of fashionable life." While in this reverie, her mother took her arm, saying, "We are now, be presented to Mr. and Mrs. Rief."  They were politely received by the lady and gen- tlemen of the house, who led the way to a spacious drawing-room. The colored lights from the costly chandeliers almost blinded them as they glided over the velvet carpet, burying their satin slippers at every step in the plush-that displayed the rich bouquets of tropical climes. The furniture looked like the varied M* &s,     298       HALF-PAST TEN. paintings of a picture gallery; in beauty and taste it surpassed anything she had ever seen. The splendor bewildered her so, that she was even glad when she saw Mr. Woodbury approaching her. There was a look of triumph on his countenance as he made his graceful bow. Julia thought his very countenance asked if she had even seen anything like it. It was his sister's residence, and his heart swelled with pride, knowing that with his fortune he could eclipse even that. He had been careful not to have the party too large nor too small, but just enough to have every- thing appear to the best advantage. Mrs. Rief was very attentive to Mrs. and Miss Oakley. Julia thought she, took unusual pains to display her diamond necklace, and as one of the ladies was ad- miring it, she turned to Julia, and with an air of great satisfaction told her that her brother gave it as a birth-day present. Julia had learned to have her words few on every occasion. She had wisheeseveral times that Mr. Leveret was present to relieve her. She was stand- ing almost alone, admiring a beautiful peice of statu- ary, when Colonel Leveret approached. Her coun- tenance bespoke the sentiments of her heart. "I am so glad you have come," was her involunta- ry expression. "Well, Julia, are you as glad as Ruth the Gleaner l a1   *TUB M;LEUT rA1 KY.      VU    was, when the handsfull of wheat was left for her to gather?"  "I do not, comprehend you. fully," was her simple answer, "but are there not sometimes golden sheaves that possess no grain?" Mr. Leveret smiled, and continued: "I have seen large fields of wheat where almost every head stood upright; they looked as bright as those that were bowed with their rich treasure." "But, Mr. Leveret, I suppose that their sheaves looked'as bright and golden as if every cell was well filled."  "To an inexperienced eye they have that appear- ance; but the husbandman will discover at a glance their real value." "Is not this statue of Ruth the Gleaner beautiful  I think her attitude is decidedly graceful "It is so, Miss Julia. The expression of her coun- tenance particularly interests me; patient endurance is delineated in every feature." "I wish my friend Lucy was. here to admire this piece of art." "I thought you were not partial to her " "I am sorry, Colonel Leveret, that you have that impression. I might have had freaks of dislike to her, but it arose from being unable to appreciate her real worth." )  ',     HALF-PAST TEN. "She is younger than you, is she not .?" "( She is a little nmy junior in years, but my senior in knowledge and goodness." "( Do you often liear'fi'om her " "(I have had only two letters from her this winter, and I ain sometimes surprised that she ever writes me at all, for I have often been very unkind to her; but she always returns good for evil, and nmakes me love her better than ever, whether I will or not. I long to have spring come, so that I can enjoy her society again. My cousin spends the winter in Washington -with M3Jr. Marsden's family." Colonel Leveret and Julia had sauntered to the falrther part of the room, and were leaning against an open casenlent whch led to the balcony. Mr. Leveret was giving Julia a brief sketch of his visit to the Academy of Arts, at Florence, when Julia's attention was arrested by hearing the name of William Oakley mentioned in a conversation on the balcony. "Are you acquainted with him?" inquired the ltdy of the person with whom she was conversing. iTlhe first time I met him was at theYounig Men's Relief Meeting. He is treasurer of the society, and is one of the most active we have on committees. He is almnost a stranger in our city. It is a mystery to mne how he finds as much time as he does, to search out the poor and needy."   THE SELECT PARTY.      801 "What are his circumstances " inquired Miss Lawrence. "I cannot say, but -I should judge he was poor. There are two ladies present this evening bearing his name, but they cannot be relatives of his, or at least I should think not by their dress and appearance." "I know nothing of his family," answered the young man, thoughtfully, "excepting that I have heard him refer to his sister; and the occasion was one of deep interest to us all. Mr. Oakley was called upon to open one of our meetings by prayer. After -offering his petition in behalf of our society, his whole soul seemed drawn out in, prayer for the salvation of his dear sister. His petition was so fervent and so fraught with a brother's love, that every eye was filled with tears. There were young men there whose tears flowed unbidden, whom I had never seen weep before. Many of them, no doubt had sisters in as imminent danger as our brother's, but they had con- fined their prayers for them to the closet. There was one before us whose feelings were too deep to be re- stricted by custom, and I doubt not there was more than one present on that occasion, whose prayers went up with his in behalf of her for whom he so earnestly struggled." As Julia heard this, her whole frame shook with emotion. - Colonel Leveret had listened with interest      802       HALF-PAST TEN. to the conversation, though he had at first tried to divert her attention. As he saw her deep emotion, he placed his arm around her, and gently drew her to a sofa and seated her, being unwilling that her feelings should be exposed; and to prevent it, he handed her a splendid volume of steel engravings, at the same time trying to keep up a brisk conversa- tion, until she was able to recover herself. She un- derstood his object, and deeply appreciated it. They were soon joined by a party of ladies, and the conversation became general. Miss Lawrence formed one of the group. She possessed great dignity of manners, and her conversational powers were superior to any of the party. Julia listened with interest and coveted similar gifts. A slight tremor passed through her nerves as she thought of the conversation she had heard upon the balcony, which ColonelLeveret alone discovered, and very happily managed to disperse the group, to the great relief of Julia, who prized the kindness of her friend, for such, alone, she now con- sidered him; and she was often vexed with herself for ever indulging in such wild fancies as to think he ever was in love with her. She often wondered how he could take any interest in one who was so entirely uninteresting as she had learned to consider herself. She was more and more convinced that it proceeded   THE SELECT PARTY.      303 more from an innate spirit of kindness, tlan fromany worth that she possessed. Colonel Leveret asked her in the course of the eve- ning if she would like to visit Mrs. Breckdnridge? She answered that she would be very glad to go, but frankly told him that her moither would not allow it. "You shall go, then, and your mother will give her consent," was his reply. Julia was gratified beyond expression. Mr. Woodbury had noticed Colonel Leveret's at- tention to Julia, and allowed ,those evil surmises which arise from a jealous heart, to come to the very yworst conclusions relative to his motives. Mr Wood- bury was far from possessing disinterested friendship for any one; he was, therefore, incapable of appre- ciating it in others. He loved Julia, but he lkew not for what; he had seen thousands, he said to him- self, much more beautiful than Miss Oakley. He admired her quiet reserve while in his presence, more than anything else. He knew that she was a splendid dancer, and he doubted not that. she could sing and 'play beautifully, if her modesty would allow her to do so. He thought she had not as many high notions as city belles, and therefore would be much easier managed; then she was not always'harping on tem- perance and religion, as some country ladies were. He would be left to drink his wine and chanpagne in     304       HALF-PAST TEN. peace; and upon the whole he thought she possessed all the qualifications that he wanted in a wife, and he resolved to remove every obstacle; either by fair or foul me'ans. A man with two hundred and fifty thou- sand dollars was not to be thwarted by one who did not possess half that amount. He watched them closely during the evening, and made his calculations accordingly. He looked complacently upon the gor- geous parlor, and saw that Mrs. Oakley was delighted with its splendor, and he said to himself "she will in- fluence her daughter in my behalf." He cast his eyes across the parlor, and saw Miss Lawrence and Julia quietly seated in front of the drawing stand, carefully examining its contents. Miss Lawrence drew from among them an expensive en- graving, and handing it to Julia, remarked, It is from Raphael's master-piece, and it is one of the most perfect imitations I ever saw." "Have you ever seen the original?" inquired Julia, modestly. "Yes, Miss Oakley, I saw it in the great cathedral at Rome. You can see in the engraving all the beau: tiful features of the infant Savior. The more I looked at it, the more I was led to admire it. An artist may draw the form and face, and present symmetry and beauty, to the eye, and we can appreciate the art and skill of the designer; but, Miss Oakley, it is impossible   THE SELECT PARTY.      305 for thehuman heart to conceive of the love of our common Lord when he laid aside the glgry he had with the Father, taking upon himself a body, even a corporeal body, that was susceptible of pain, suffer- ing, and the agonies of death, all for the sake of re- deeming a people who were living in open violation of the most consistent law that was ever given mortals to obey. The love he manifested was infinite, bound- less, and unparalleled. When I see with what indiffer- cnce it is looked upon by some, and the efforts that e made by others to overthrow the most magnani- mous system, and yet the most humble that ever was conceived, my heart looks up to the topmost branches, where the rich clusters are ripened, and still ripening, as perfected proofs of that truth which will yet cover the earth as the waters cover the sea." Julia, as she listened in silence to Miss Lawrence's re- marks, was convinced that she was a stranger to such truths. How they reminded her of her dear Lucy. She knew if she had listened, they would have been understoodand appreciated. These thoughts caused an involuntary sigh, and she was led to ask, Who has made us to differ "--unwilling now to charge her folly to God or her mother. They were interrupted by a voice from behind them, saying, "Ladies, you look very serious. I am sure I did i     220     HALF-PAST TEN.  not expect to see two such sober faces. I fear you are not satisfied with my sister's entertainment." Miss Lawrence readily replied, "Serious things mnust be seriously considered. This engraving from Raphael never ceases to awaken a train of thought which carries me far away from those things which I nmust acknowledge sink into insignificance, compared to the more substantial. Notthat I am indifferent to wealth, beauty, and taste; but I must be allowed to hold them as secondary." Mr. Woodbury stammered an unintelligible answer, and then proposed a promenade. They complied with his request, but both felt relieved when he was called to entertain another group. Mrs. Oakley managed to keep near Mrs. Reif, pas- sionately admiring everything in her person or dress. Julia was more quiet and retiring than usual. There was a thoughtful expression on her countenance which made her more attractive to Colonel Leveret than he had ever seen her. His first acquaintance with Julia was when she was a child; his business often took him to Wilmington, and his acquaintance with Mr. Oakley frequently brought him to their house. He was not aware that Miss Oakley ever thought of him in any other light than a friend. He was conscious thllat Julia's education had been deplo- rably neglected, and his objectin inviting her to New .   THE SELECT PARTY.      307 York to spend the winter, was not to introduce her into the fashionable circles of the great metropolis- for he knew that she was not qualified for suchll a po- sition-but he hoped that the influence of his mother and sisters would have a tendency to regulate a char- acter which had been so imperfectly formed. Could he have knowp the views the Oakley family had taken of his invitation, and heard the insinuations that were passed upon Julia by her mother, and oth- er members of the family, representing her as his la- dy-love, suggesting to Julia those ideas which could never be realized, and which he had never thought of himsel;f, he would have been astonished at their absurdity, and left them to enjoy the false light they had kindled; but to this he was a stranger. He had enjoyed his bachelorship long, and did not think of resigningit. Heknewhutlittle ofCupidorhiswell- directed arrows. He knew that there were maneuver- ing mothers, and he sometimes pitied the folly of the daughters. He was himself a stranger to coquetry, and looked contemptuously upon it in others; and he was too honorable to take advantage of those who were weak enough to practice it. He looked upon it as a vice basely practiced by thousands, and shunned it as he would any other evil calculated to misguide and deceive. Therefore, his friendship was to be depended upon. His mind that evening was of-     HALF-PAST TEN. ten much occupied with the account of William's anxiety for his sister, and he resolved that Julia should visit him as soon as possible. Mr. Woodbury's deportment to Colonel Leveret was unusually polite, and as frigid as coldness could make it. There was no vitality in it. Colonel Lev- eret understood the cause. j1is mind was cast in a higher mould. While others might have been dis- turbed at his supercilious attention, he let it pass- without giving it a thought. He left the company at an early hour, much to the relief of Mr. Wood- bury. Julia was glad when her mother ordered their car- riage. Miss Lawrence promised to call upon them, expressing a strong desire thlat their acquaintance should continue. Julia was surprised that one pos- sessing so much intellect should wish an acquaint- ance with one so ignorant as she considered herself to be. Her mother talked nervously and fast, ex- pressing her unbounded delight at what she had seen, and hinting to Julia that the like pleasures could be hers, if she chose. Julia had long remained silent, her thoughts busily engaged with other things. Her mother losing all patience at what she called her stupidity, at length asked,   "Julia, what in the world are you thinking of " Well, mother, I was thinking of several things. One was, whether you would let me-go to school-I feel as if I could not give up the idea."      CHAPTER XXX. FLORAL BEAUTIEB. "Bring flowers-they are springing in wood and vale- Their breath floats out on the southern gale,- And the touch of the sunbeam hath waked the rose. Bring flowers to the captive's lonely cell; They have tales of the joyous woods to tell, Of the free blue streams and the glowing sky, And the bright world shut from his languid eye; They will bear him a thought of the sunny hours, And a dream of his youth-Bring flowers, sweet flowers." Mas. HEMANS. Bur a few days elapsed before Colonel Leveret's carriage stood before Mrs. Oakley's door. His rea- soning was not to be withstood.    Mrs. Oakley gave her consent for Julia to visit her brother, al- though it was reluctantly done. Julia was kindly   received by  Mrs. Brecken- ridge. William was immediately sent for, and Julia was left by herself, for which she felt truly grateful. William was none the less so, in finding her alone. Their meeting was tender and affectionate; a brother and sister never more fully opened their minds to each other. A  new  confidence had sprung up in each of their, hearts. She deplored her depravity, and earnestly desired that for which he had made so   FLORAL BEAUTIES.    -  3" great a sacrifice. She had long been convinced that there was a reality iti the religion of Jesus Christ, and she wished to lay aside the vanities of this life, and become the humble follower of the mneek and lowly Jesus.  Her brother gave her such advice as he thought ould be most useful. He saw that her air of pride wasexchanged'for one of meekness, and was convinced that naught butthe Holy Spirit could have caused the change. Julia expressed a strong wish, for Lucy's return. William told her it would be but a few weeks be- fore they would- leave Washington; they were al- ready making preparations for their journey. Their interview was short, but long to be remembered by both. Mrs. Oakley's health failed her, and she was obliged to return home.. Her extravagance while she was in New York had involved her husband.  He was mo- rose, and sometimes unkind. The family -was far from bling more happy by Mrs. Oakley's return. Julia sometimes Tried to restore quiet, but did not al- ways succeed. She was more attentive to hereparents' wishes, and nore orbgaring with her mother than she had ever been  before. Bridget was still in their family, and notice I the eh6uge in Julia more than any other one. She embraced the first opportunity     HALF-PAST TEN.  to inquire after William. When informed of his suc- cess in his studies, she declared that s the rose. of his shamrock would bloom in spite of any of them." Julia made her bible her companion, and endeav- ored to follow out theoretically its precepts, cherish- ing the advice of her brother and the bright example of her then dear Lucy.      , Soon after her return, while confined in her mother's sick-room, she wrote a long letter to Lucy. How dif- ferent in style and spirit from her former ones; and as Lucy read it to Miss Baldwin, she remarked, "How multiplied are the evidences of Christianity. I am convinced more and more thats we have a prayer- hearing and a prayer-answering God." "I feel, my dear aunt, my present resignation in regard to your leaving us has been given me by my Heavenly Father. Since you told me that it was your purpose to go to England, I thought it was impossible for me to give you up; but now I am willing you should be guided by your own sense of duty; and I shall endeavor to improve every opportunity that presents itself, to cultivate my mind, that I may be more fully prepared to labor in the vineyard of the Lord.' ' I am glad, dear Lucy, that you have thus resolved; for the fields are already white for the harvest, and the laborers are few. Do not forget the injunctions   of your precious Savior. 'Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel, for lo, I am with you, even unto the ends of the earth.' You may sometimes ask what can one so young as I, do?' Remember his praise is sometimes perfected by those in extreme youth. Your field of labor will not be confined to Wilmington; you will soon be sent away from home to school. There your influence will be for or against the cause of truth. You will be, in a meas- unre, away from the guardianship of your parents; and your leisure moments cannot be devoted to Leoretta." "That thought; dear Aunt Lucy, causes me more pain than any other; but I know that I cannot always be with her. I heard papa say that when she was old enough, he would send her to the Institution for the Blind, to complete her education. If I could only go and take care of her, how glad I should be. She has of late seemed tto realize, more than ever, that she was blind, and I thilnk sometimes that her spirits sad- den at the reflection." "I have observed it, Lucy, and I know that she tlinks mnore of the future 'than children generally do. tier thirst for knowledge istruly surprising, and when she enters school, her proficiency will be rapid." "Aunt Lucy, did you kno  w that Mr. and Mrs.      HALF-PAST TEN. Goodrich are to return to their missionary labors this spring I "Yes, Ermma just read me her mothers letter. We are to return by Kentucky, and shall meet them there. I think we shall all enjoy a visit to the Mammoth Cave. Your father and Mr; Goodrich understand mineralogy so well, that they will enjoy the excur- sion." "Mamma told Emma and myself that we might go and call on the Misses Emerson this afternoon. We have several other calls to make before we leave. I already begin to count the hours that we are going to spend at Washington, although we slall Aism very much the Emersons." Emma and Lucy found the young ladies at hlome, and were agreeably entertained. Viola, the young- est of them, had become passionately attached to Leoretta. She did as she had often done; she se- lected a beautiful bouquet of roses, and gave it to Lucy for her. This, Viola knew, would please her more than anything else she could have sent. Could she have seen with what triumphant joy she carried it to Robert, to have him analyze and describe them, she would have said the giver and .receiver were alike blessed. "Now, Robert, please tell me the name of every one of these roses."   His eye grew - bright as he looked upon the beauti- fil selections. "It is so beautifully arranged, dear Retta, that I cannot bear to takeit to pieces. Where shall I begin-at the top or the bottom " "I don't care where, only let me know what they are n  "Well, here is the Xltiltiora, to commence with, -now you must keep count how many there are-and here is the Blush rose, the Rose Josepiine, Chinese, Noisette, Banksia, Boursaul, Provence, Oentiflora, Musk-rose, Damask, Macartneys, French, Yellow, and Scotch rose, and at the top, the little Tea roses." "O, Robert was there ever so many roses put into a bouquet before?-sixsteen different kinds, with all the Tea roses. If we could only have roses at the north so early, bow glad I should be. I took dear Mrs. Merrit a bunch of white roses, for she loved those better than any others; and what do you think made her." "I do not know, Leoretta, unless they were the emblem of purity." "I suppose that was it, for she slid that she once read in a book that all the roses in the garden of Eden were white, until Eve plucked the forbidden fruit, then she said they blushed with shame at her folly; and she taught me this little verse-I will tell it to you."     HALF-PAST TEN. , Let me hear it, darling." i    " 'The rose was once a spotless white, - When it in Eden grew; But when our parents broke the law, It blushed a crimson hue.'"   "I think, Leoretta, the little verse has more beauty than reality; but I am not convinced that the rich hues with which the rose is tinged is given as an em- blem of shame; they are often BO exquisitely shaded that it looks more like the work of an unsurpassed artist. But let this be as it may, you certainly have a beautiful bunch of flowers." "I wish, Robert, I could keep them until we go home." "I wish you could, darling, but it will be more than a week before we start." "Do you not wish we could go to-morrow. I think Mrs. Elliot will be glad to see us, and the dear lit- tle children must be-so' lonely without their papa. I know, Robert, they must want to see you very much." "Yes, Leoretta, I often think of them, and pray for them every day. There were many at Wilming- ton whom we left in good health, who have gone to try the realities of an unseen future." "Robert, do you think that Father-Mercy is a good man I "  FLORAL BEAUTIES.      317 so I think him sincere and kind, and I hope heiQ will be convinced of the truth of Protestantism, and be led to embrace it; for he is one that might be emi- nently useful as a minister of the gospel.. "Well, Robert, I hope he will be at Wilmington when we get home and I think if you 'will talk to him, as you did to William Oakley, he will be con- verted."              m "Leoretta, -I was not the honored instrument; it was Franklin Goodrich who first arrested his atten- tion. Paul may plant and Apollos water, but God must give the increase. Without the interposition of the Holy Spirit, we become as brokenr reeds; our wisdom is but folly, and our strength weakness. Unless we are sustained by the principles of truth, and that truth received and acted upon, we are as those who beat the air-laboring in vain, and spend- ing their strength for naugrht., Is it uot so, Mr. Marsden?," inquired the old gentleman as Mr. M. entered the room. "Yes, Robert; if mea in the religious and politi- cal world were governed by the principles of truth, this would be the vestibule of IIcaven."5 Robert saw the pale an4 anxious face of Mr. Marsden, and inquired when the senate was to adjourn. He told him they would be able to close up their business in a few days.   HALF-PAST TITN.      318      HALF-PAST TEN. And then we shall be homeward-bound," said Robert. "Yes, I hope we shall be able to leave Washington within three days after the adjournment." I   CHAPTER XXXI.- SUBTERRANEAN     EXCURSIONS. Fit throne for such a power I Magnificent -!  How glorious art thou, Earth! And if thou be The shadow of some spirit lovelier still, Though evil stain its work, and it should be Weak, yet beautiful, like its creation, I could fall down and worship that and thee. Even now my heart adoreth: Wonderful I Look, sister, ere the vapor dim thy brain: Beneath is a wide plain of billowy mist. As a lake, paring in the morning sky, With azure waves which burst in silvery light Some Indian vale. THE last week in Washington sped rapidly away. Early in the afternoon of a bright spring day, Mr. Marsden's family bade adieu to the din of the city, and emerged into the country.    Every pulsation seemed to beat free, and the tide of joy flowed from heart to heart of the happy family. The air was al- ready laden with the perfume of early flowers; the singing and chirping of the birds charmed and de- lighted Lucy and Leoretta.  Lucy's spirits were sad- dened only by the recollection that her dear Aunt Lucy was soon to leave them.  She looked into the 4 An      HALF-PAST TEN.  face of her mother and aunt, and saw nothing but se- renity and peace. At Cincinnati Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich joined them. They spent several days in the city, occasionally going out into the country to visit the extensive vineyards that were in the neighborhood. On one of these visits Lucy remarked to her mother tl\at she should enjoy visiting the vintage-ground, if their produc- tions were not the stepping-stones to intemperance. "It is so, my child," said Mrs. Marsden. The fashionable wine-drinker often becomes the patron of the lowest rum-cellar, and is hurled from the fashiona- ble circles to the degrading haunts of vice, and from thence to fill a drunkard's grave; and our own sex, my dear child, are sometimes numbered with its un- fortunate victims." "Do you not think, dear mamma, that there is more wine drank at the south than at the north ." "T1lere may be more wine drank there, but I do not think there is more real intemperance." Lucy was particularly anxious to leave Cincinnati, for she anticipated much from her visit to the world- renowned cave of Kentucky. Lucy's happiness was marred when she thought that her dear Leoretta could not visit Nature's great curiosity, and she was afraid that it would be impossible for her to give an accu- rate description of it.   I   I   SUBTERRANEAN EXCURSIONS.   The party set out, and the journey was a pleasant one. Lucy described everything of note to her sister, as usual. Leoretta looked thoughtful, and at length remarked, "Lucy, I am glad that there are no large plan- tations of cotton, together with sugar cane and rice fields, such as we saw when we went south two years ago-it will be so much easier for the slaves here, for it used to make my heart ache so when you told me about them. I used often to think when there, of that little verse you taught me." "You know so many, Leoretta, that I do not re- collect which one you refer to:" "It is that one which says:   'I thank the goodness and the grace, That o'er my birth has smiled, And made me in my early days, A happy Christian child.'f Then I thought of that other little verse, too:   'I was not born a little slave, To labor in the sun, To wish I was but in my grave And all my labor done.'" "Those lines, dear Leoretta, are very pretty; but I presume that there are hundreds of slave children who are unconscious of their bondage, until that dreadful hour comes when they are torn from father, mother, brothers and sisters, and all that rendered their lives N*           21    322       HALF-PAST TEN. dear, and sold into the hands of strangers-introdu- cing them to all the horrors of slavery. We have rea- son to be thankful to our Heavenly Father that we are not subject to such cruel changes. Are you wil- ling-but we are almost to our stopping place-are you willing to stay with Mrs. Goodrich and Robert, while we visit the cave?" "Yes, I am willing to stay, for I know that you can get along a great deal better without me; but, Lucy, in a few years I mean to come here and go all over it. Be sure to take a good &al of dinner with you, Lucy, for when you go to the bacon-room, and see all those great hams hanging up there, I expect the sight of them will make you hungry." The party had now reached the place where prep- arations for the day's excursion were to be made. As the day wore away, Leoretta inquired first of Robert, and then of Mrs. Goodrich, "Will they not be here soon? Emma and Lucy told me that they would be back before sundown;" she repeatedly went to the door to listen attentively to every sound, and at length sought her old place- Robert's knee-laying her head upon his shoulder, and saying as she did so, "I am afraid they are lost." He saw the tears roll down her cheeks in spite of the efforts which she made to control herself. He suc-   SUBTERRANEAN EXCURSIONS.    823 ceeded in quieting her, by relating the story of a fatherless boy, called Algenon. "Now, darling, don't cry; this little boy, Algenon, felt worse than you do. He and his mother lived in Scotland, in a neat little white cottage, with roses, woodbines, and honey-suckles climbing up on every side of it. They had lived there foralongtinie. Al- genon's papa had died when he was a baby. Mrs. Garland had taught her little boy to love God and to pray to his Heavenly Father. Every night and morn- ing he would kneel by his mother's knee, and putting up his little hands, he would ask God to bless his mother and everybody that he knew. One morning as he was saying his little prayer, he saw that his mother looked pale and sick. His little eyes filled with tears; so his mother stooped down and kissed him, asking what made him cry. "'I am afraid you will die, and be buried up in the ground, as dear papa was,' he replied: ' then I shall have nobody to love me.' "Algenon was unhappy all day. He saw his mother lie down, and at night he was obliged to kneel by her bed to say his prayer; then he climbed upon the bed and lay down by the side of hi, mother, where he fell asleep, and dreamed that a bri angel came and touched his mother, saying in a low voice that her Heavenly Father had need of her. 'And     HALF-PAST TEN. what will become of my darling boy?' he thought he heard her say; and the angel answered that there were millions of infant children around the Throne who are beckoning him to them.  Then he thought that twoN beautiful cherubs stood by the bed, and played so sweetly upon a golden harp. The rich melody of the cherub harpers awoke him. He laid his tiny hand upon the fevered celek of his moth- er, and told her his dream .  "She caressed him, as mothersnonly do, and said, 'Our time has come-it has fully come; our work is done, and well done.' "In a few days Mrs. Garland and Algenon died, and the kind neighbors buried them by the side of the husband and father. Now, darling, I hope when you and I are called to leave this world, we can say as Mrs. Garland did, 'Our work is done, and well done;' but while we do live, we'll not let our hearts be troubled about the things that are beyond our con- trol, for the bible says ' Hope thou in God, for thou shall yet praise Him.'"           r Leoretta sat quietly musing upon Robert's story, whlen her sensitive ear caught the sound of approach ing carriages. "'There they come, Robert!" she exclaimed. In a imoment the weary party was with them. "Now, Lucy, when you get rested I want you to   tell me all about what you have seen; if you will, I'll tell you the beautiful story that Robert has just been telling me." Leoretta waited anxiously till after supper; then Emma and Lucy found a quiet place where they could talk to Leoretta, and not disturb the rest of the dompany. Lucy commenced: "Well, Leoretta, we have seen so much that I do not know where to begin first; but the Steamboat Rock was the first place we halted at." "What makes them callit a Steamboat Rock-does it look like a steamboat?" "Well, Leoretta, it has not a very striking resem- blance to one, but it must be called by some name; so they thought they would call it that. Directly be- hind this we found an avenue with a narrow mouth or entrance. It was so low that we were obliged to walk half bent, for seeral rods." "Did you have to bend, Lucy?" "Yes, you know that I am almost as tall as mamma." "Then I should have thought that papa and Mr. Goodrich must have crept on their knees, if it is as narrow as you tell of. I suppose you had to go one after another, as chickens go to drink." The girls laughed heartily at the comparison, and Lucy was obliged to tell her that if she made so     HALF-PAST TEN. many comments she would not be able to get through. "Well, you tai, then, and I will listen." "After we crawled along the narrow entrance," continued Lucy, " we came to an avenue two miles in length; then we passed alone a narrow, slippery path, stopping occasionally to throw stdnes down what is called 'the Bottomless Pit.' Near this is what is called the 'Dead Sea;' here we went down several feet, and walked along a narrow zig-zag path, which looks as if it had once been a water channel. It is very narrow at the bottom, widening out so that you can use your arms. This is not more than four and a half feet high. I cannot tell you about all the nar- row patlis we found; for in some places we had to climb up, in others, we had to go down. We crossed two or three rivers. The first was the River Styx." "1And were these actually rivers?" inquired Leo- retta. "Yes, they were, and we crossed them in a skiff. We then came to the River 'Jordan,' which is five miles from the mouth of the cave, it is three-fourths of a mile long, and about twenty-five feet broad, and is said to be about three hundred feet beneath the sur- face of the earth." "Why, Lucy, I should think they had better call it the Mammoth Sepulchre, than a mammoth cave. i         e  z b         A   326   HALF-PAST TEN.   SUBTERRANEAN EXCURSIONS.   327   How frightened I should have been if I had known that you were so far under ground." "The roof is of solid rock, forming a regular arch from the water; now rising to a height of twenty or thirty feet, then falling so low that all must stoop or have broken heads. In thatriverthere arefish about six inches long which have no eyes, and are usually called the ' blind fish.' " "Poor things," said Leoretta, mischievously, "I think fishdom had better build an Institution for them." 'lnstitutions are generally built for the ameliora- tion of those who are to occupy them, but the fish seemed formed for a -subterranean life. Passing through ISilliman's Avenue,' we went up  to the 'Vineyard,' by the aid of a ladder. Here we were surrounded by rocks encrusted with a formation re. sembling clusters of grapes, of a purple color. For a hundred feet or more the walls are covered in this way. Near this, tothis, toright, is the I Holy Sepulchre,'  where we climbed up the almost perpendicular sides of the cave, through a beautiful gateway of stalactite A just large enough toidmit a person, where one of the most beautiful sights that eyes ever beheld, greet- ed us. The room is about thirty-five feet long, with a low, arched roof. The entrance was hung with the most beautiful stalactites. Art could not have arranged     them in such exquisite taste. In the center of the room is a cavity having every appearance of a new- made grave in the solid rock. Emula said it was a gem among all the curiosities, and it certainly re- minded me of Joseph's new tomb. It gave & solem- nity to the whole apartment. The next place. was 'Cleveland's Cabinet,' in beauty and magnificence surpassing anything we had yet seen. It is encrusted from end to end with the most beautiful formations of dazzling whiteness, and perfectly smooth, and in other places, crystalized so as to glisten like diamonds iln the light. There are a great many little grottos, where one or two persons can step in and be perfectly  hid from those'outside. Emma and I stepped into one of these, while papa and Mr, Goodrich were an- alyzing one of the spars. We commenced singing this verse:  ' Majestic sweetness sits enthrone On the Redeemer's brow, His head with radiant glories crowned His lips with grace o'erflow.'   They listened a moment, and then began singing the bass. Our voices echoed and reechoed, until the re- verberations sounded like hundreds of voices. We could scarcely make ourselves believe that there was not an extensive orchestra waiting for ua to pitch the tune."    v A1%JiU&nA1AN EXCURSIONS.  329 an"shold think, Lcy it was as much like that as anything. How I wish I could have been with you. Where did you go after you left what I shall call the Emerald Orchestra.' "After Emma and I had picked up a great many speciuens-which I shall show you at some future time-we next visited the 'Snow-ball Room,' the sids and roof of which are completely covered with whatresembles snow-balls. Emma says 'it looks as if the ghosts of ages had had a great frolic in snow- balling.' Here we gathered more specimens, and then took up our line of march to the 4 Rocky Moun tain'. We clambered up them, and entered another cavern. After going througllseveral halls and pick- ing up curiosities as we passed, we reached the most distant part in that direction, and were told by our guide that we were nine miles from the entrance. We returned in another direction, and stopped at the Floral Chamber.' In beauty it surpassed anything we had yet seen. Here tulips in almost perfect form could be seen. They were much more perfect than the roses we had found in another part of the cave- . But I had forgotten to mention our visit to the bacon- room, where we lunched, after which we visited 'Sereno's Arbor.' It was thought by some of our party to be the most exquisite spot we had found. As for my own opinion, I could scarcely tell what it was,    330       HALF-PAST T. I had seen so much to admire. I sketched hasty notes as I passed for your benefit; and when we are alone, sometime, I will describe what I have seen. We were obliged to throw away a great many of our specimens, for we had been so greedy in gathering them that it was impossible for us to make the as- cents and descents with such a load.. I think I have more specimens than any other one of the party. The large pocket you all laughed at me so for carrying, I found very useful." "Where in the world did you carry it?" "I put the strap-which you know is quite wide- over my head, and took some large pins and pinned it to each shoulder, and one in front.", "Did you let it hang in front, or behind?"  "I let it hang from my back and shoulders. Mr. Goodrich said I looked like a squaw, with a pappoose on her back. In this way I was able to bring some very choice pieces. I have a tulip which is almost as perfect as any there are in our garden, besides a good many other things. I do not think I broke one of them while in the cave. You know, Leoretta, that it was necessary for me to bring more than any of the rest, for the more that I could bring you of the Mam- moth Cave, the better you could understand it. "Dear Lucy, I wonder your great heart did not try to carry away part of the Rocky Mountains."   SUBTERRANEAN EXCURSIONS.    331 tLeoretta, I am very weary, and it is late; we must go to bed. Our HeavenlyFather has been very kind to-day in keeping us from dangers, seen and unseen. Mr. Goodrich said, while examining the wonders-of Mammoth Cave, that he was overwhelmed with shame at the meager views he had entertained of God as a Supreme Architect. Good night, sister; some other time we will talk this all over."  22     CHAPTER XXXII. THE RETURN. Linger not long! Home is not homne without thee, Its dearest tokens only make me mourn; Oh! let its memory, like a chain about thee, Gently compel and hasten the return. Linger not long; Linger not long I Though crowds should woo thy sayings, Bethink thee can the mirth of friends, though dear, Compensate for the grief thy long delaying Causes the heart that sighs to have the here I Linger not long I ANon. EARLY the next morning the party were on their way. When they arrived at New York, their hearts were gladdened with the progress of William Oakley. They met Miss Lawrence, and it was evident that she was not indifferent to the welfare of Mr. Oakley. His active piety arrested the attention of those who formed his acquaintance. He read to Lucy several of Julia's letters, which made her feel as if she could hardly wait till she got to Wilmington to see her. It was evident that a change had taken place in her young friend's character, and she resolved to make herself as useful as possible to her. Hirome arrived in New York the morning they were to leave. He was to spend two weeks at home;   THE RETURN. .   and with glad hearts the party started for Wilmling- ton. Winter had laid aside her mantle of white, and Spring seemed hurrying to make her toilet. The spring birds were hastening back to fit up and take possession of their summer residences. Lucy told Leoretta that everything seemed to move and act as if it had an object to attain. "Lucy, Robert says we must always have an ob- ject in view."  "And that great object, Leoretta, should be to glorify God in all that we do. I have had this im- pressed upon my mind ever since mamma made up her {mind to send me to a boarding-school." "Dear Lucy, how lonely, how very lonely I shall be when you are gone. Aunt Lucy is going to Eng- land, and papa talks of going to the Upper Penin- sula of Michigan." "Papa does not think of going to the Upper Pe- ninsula this year, Leoretta." "Dear Lucy, I hope he will not; but how lonely we shall be. Before you get back from school I shall be gone to some Institution for the-Blind. It seems as ifmwe should never be togetherany more. It was only last fall that papa thought you were too young to go away to school." "Yoti know, Leoretta, that papa only thinks of us as little girls."      334       HALF-PAST TEN. "Well, Lucy, I hope he will always think so." "And always keep us at home, and never let us go to school " "O, no, Lucy, I do not wish so, for that would not be for ourinterest; but I wish we could always be together. It seems as if I could not live a day without you." The girlshad talked themselves tired, and Leoretta's head was resting upon her sister's shoulder. Mrs. Marsden and her sister had listened with countenances. expressive of the mutual interest they both felt in the girls' welfare. Mr. Marsden and Hirome were talk- ing of the past, and laying plans for the future. Rob- ert was having a long conversation with a young man dressed in the extreme of fashion, endeavoring to convince him of the infallible truths of the bible. The careless air of the young man was laid aside, and he listened attentively to the instructions of his aged teacher. Robert was one of those faithful and fearless christians who consider it their duty to be instant in season and out of season, always maintain- ing that dignity of character which seldom fails to command respect. Wilmington was already in sight, and familiar scenes and familiar faces met the eye and gladdened the hearts of the Marsdens. "Home, sweet home," repeated Robert, as he con- ducted Leoretta from the cars.   THE RETURN.       335 Michael and Jane were awaiting their arrival; and Lucy's pony stood saddled and bridled, waiting for her. Lucy laughed heartily when she saw her, and said, "I think, Michael, you must have thought I had grown very delicate; the distance is so short that it will hardly pay for mounting my pony." "You have so often written about her, that I thought I would let you know that pony was well.. Margaret said you would laugh when you saw her." Lucy sprang into the saddle, leaving Leoretta to walk with Jane. Mrs. Marsden and Miss Baldwin said they should think, by the looks of the house, that they had not been gone more than a day. In the family-room the fire was burning brightly in the grate; the dormeuse was drawn up in its old famil- iar place, looking as if it was waiting for its occupant. The tea was a joyous meal, each feeling thabt there is no place like home. Hirome, though unusual for him, ap- peared more thoughtful than the others. The fact that his aunt was soon to leave them depressed his spirits. "One by one, hie thought, " will be taken from our family circle, until these social gatherings will be numbered withl the past. Aunt Lucy is to sail in two weeks for .England, and, Lucy in four weeks will leave home. Father, mother, Leoretta, and Robert, will make up the family circle; but those of us .lho     836       HALF-PAST TEN.  are separated from home will have this to comfort us -that on the family altar, around which we have all knelt, thd devotional fire burns bright and clear, and our spiritual and temporal interests are remembered at that sacred shrine." Mrs. Marsden and her husband, with Hlirome, ac- companied Miss Baldwin to New York, and saw her safe on board the steamer that was to take her to Eng- land. Before Miss Baldwin left Wilmington, she visited Mrs. Elliot in her lonely widowhood, admin- istering to her those consolations that the stricken heart needed. She learned from her that the ac- quaintance which was formed between Dr. McNiel and Father Mercy,amid the scenes of suffering and death, had ripened into coifidential friendship. She told her that she thought him one of the most con- sistent Catholics she had ever known. "lie never meets my children without giving them some to- ken of the sacred memory which he cherishes for their rfather." The parting of Miss Baldwin with her numerous friends at Wilmington, proved how inseparable is that love which binds heart to heart, beautifully existing between those whose aims and desires are one. Lucy bore the parting with that fortitude which is alone characteristic of the christian. She could be   THE RETURN.       337 wsen going morning and evening to the favorite sum- mer-house where her Michigan rose, over which she wept, was putting forth its young tendrils, saying si- lently, "I have endured the rude blasts of autumn, and the iron armns of winter have not crushed me; I have come again to cheer and gladden your heart." There had she often knelt and dedicated herself- to God, who bade her labor in his vineyard. She knew that the change she was about to make would se- verely test her Christian principles. The interviews between Julia Oakley and Lucy would have melted the heart of a stoic; but at length Julia gave evidence that she had indeed passed from death unto life. The things that sheonce hated she now loved, and her heart was filled with anxiety for the spiritual welfare of her parents; and the recklessness of Joseph' character filled her with painful appre- hensions. She was modestly firm with her parents. Mrs. Oakley declared to her husband that her chil- dren would be the means of making her a lunatic. 'Ilt is a -pity, then, that Julia was not converted six months ago, for it is evident that my expenses would have been much less. It would not have- cost me half as much to have supported you in some lu- natic asylum as it did you and Julia in New York; and upon the whole, I think the garb of piety sits very well upon' her. I am beginning to think that      HALF-PAST TEN. we had better, all of us, become Christians. It would not cost me half as much to live." " Yes, Mr. Oakley, this shows how much interest you take in your family. You are willing that they should be drones in society, while I am crushed with anxiety for their interests, sacrificing my own happi- ness that they may prove themselves worthy of the ness that they :may Prov thi e.   Yoar 03 Scotch blood that runs in their veins. You are con- stantly harassing me by talking of expenditures; Iut what does a mother care for expenses if her children can adorn the fashionable circles in which they move a Julia's hand has already been sought by Mdr. Wood- bury,and I am determined she shall marry him at all hazards. He is sealthy and handsome ." hazrds   He i    :  - Two very important considerations, Irs Oakley, but I presume that Julia will make closer investiga- and if she should happen to tions than you have; a     iebbe   n  make up her mind that he was a wine bibuer and a friend to publicang and sinners I do not think yo, will find it so easy- to carry out your iuercenary in- tentions. I shall leave her to select whom she ple"Forthis one, Mr. Oakley, it will be for your in- terest to acquiesce in my wishes. You have told me repeatedly, of late, that it would be impossible to keep up our present style of living, unless your busi- ness took a favorable turn; and I know that Mr.   THE RETURN.        339 Woodbury is generous to a fault, and he would be willing to do anything to obtain Julia's hand." "Depend upon it, Mrs. Oakley,. I shall leave Julia to choose for herself. With all the indifference you charge me with relative to my children, I would beg before I would see her fate connected with one she could not love." "You are as you always have been, a cruel, un- sympathizing husband.' At this, Mrs. Oakley burst into a fit of hysterical weeping, and Mr. Oakley, as usual, took his hat and went leisurely out. When Julia returned from Mrs. Marsden's, she found her mother in a state of great excitement. On learning the cause, she tried to soothe and quiet her. Mrs. Oakley used the same arguments she had often used before, and endeavored to convince her of the advantages which would accrue from such a union. Julia listened in tearful silence to her mother. At length she told her that as much as she desired her happiness, she could not comply with her wishes, and begged to be left to choose for herself. ' Between Mr. Woodbury and myself there is no congeniality," said she. "In the first place,he is infidelrin principle, and he is now numbered among fashionable drinkers; and I have, from good author- ity, reason to believe that he- will yet fill a drunkard's    HALF-PAST TEN. grave. With these facts before me relative to his character, I think it would be the height of folly to give his offer even a thought. My bible and my con- science forbid it." Mrs. Oakley had thrown herself upon the dormeuse in a state of great excitement, where she lay nearly prostrated, suffering intensely from the reaction of her nervous system. Julia kindly bathed her face and temples, silently praying her Heavenly Father for the operations of the Holy Spirit on her mother's heart. Knowing that her mother would not recover from the shock for several days, she resolved to turn her thoughts into another channel, if possible. A, week passed, and Mrs. Oakley was able to leave her room. During this time Julia kindly ministered to her. Fervently and importunate were the prayers she offered for her mother, and how glad was Julia's heart when, in compliance with her mother's request, she read Christ's beautiful sermon on the mount. She told Julia that if she was able to ride she would like to call on Mrs. Marsden, in the afternoon, as she had not called there since her return. The afternoon was fine. Nature seemed to rejoice with Julia, as they drove quietly along. Julia broke silence by asking her mother if there was not a pleasure'in look- ing from nature up to nature's God. "If that God is a reconciled one," replied MBra    THE RETURN        4 Oakley, " it is no doubt a pleasure in looking up to Him ; but to one who has lived all their life willfully violating his laws, there is no pleasure." Julia's tears flowed too fast for her to answer read- ily, but at length she said, i"Christ alone, my dear mother, is the sinner's shield, and he. is not a hard mas- ter; he does not reap where he has not sown, nordoes he require any duty that we are unable to perform," "But, Julia, I have so many duties to portrm that I do not know where to begin." "Dearr mother, the first and great duty of man is to glorify God, and he has very mercifully said to us, that the broken and contrite heart is of great price in his sight." "I know, my dear child, that God has done all things well. I know that I have a great work to do, and I feel as if I had no Strength to perform it." The bible say ;s that if we lackwisdom we must ask of God," replied Julia, " and I know that he will- give Itherally and upbraid not. He has done great things foryou, and his hands are still full of blessings*" The carriage stopped. at Kfrs. ]arsden's.  lfrs. Oakley was met in the hall by Lucy and her motler, ach giving acordial welcom'T - Mrs. Mars den's eyes filled with tears, as she looked upon the pale and emaciated features of  Mrs. Oaklley, whose low and t   eulos voice told thate wa   s  at wor cosience was at work,    HALF-PAST TEN. There was a s&uduedness in her manner which was indeed affecting to those who had formerly known her. Mrs. Marsden knew the object of her call, and ad- ministered such instructions to her as a true penitent needed. Her confessions of a misspent life, and the unkind feelings she had cherished toward her best friends were almost overwhelming to those who lis- tened to her. In the course of the afternoon she in- quired for Robert, saying that she felt as if she must confess to hm, as she had entertained bitter and un- kind feelings toward him. But Robert was not at home-le had gone to visit his grotto and bower in the distant wood. Mrs. Oakley staid till near sundown. On taking leave of Mrs. Marsden she requested an interest in her prayers. Mr. Oakley was affected even to tears, on learning the state of Mrs. Oakley's mind, saying to himself, "There is something in this religion. No human agency could have humbled Kate's spirits like- this." Mrs. Oakley had several times attempted to speak of William, but became each time so much agitated that she was unable to proceed. Mr. Oakley antici- pating what her wishes were, asked her if she would like to have William come home, and telling her thgt she had better write him to that effect. Her tean    THE RETURN.       343 bespoke the gratitude that words had no power to express. As soon as her health and state of mind would per- mit, she wrote: "MY DEAR BUT mJURRED Sow: Agreeable to the re- quest of your father, and the desire of my heart, we invite you, cordially and affectionately, to comne home. I have only strength to ask your forgiveness, and im- mediate comnpliance with our request. May the blessings of God, whose ways are not as our ways, rest upon you. "From your mother, "O. CAbLE."  We will not attempt any description of William's emotion on the reception of the letter. We can sim- ply say that they were those of gratitude ard prayer In a few days he was with his parents. Mrs. Oakley was unable to leave her room on her son's arrival. Julia met him at the -depot, and accompanied him home. It was evident from Mr. Oakley's absence at that hour, that he preferred meeting him alone. Mrs Oakley bore the interview with unusual composure. As soon as William could be excused from his moth- er, he went down to the parlor, and as He expected, found his father. Without any ceremony Mr. Oak-    344       HALF-PAST TEBN. ley approached William, extending his hand and saying, "Well, my son, you are welcome home again. I have come to the conclusion that this religion, which your mother and myself made so much trouble about, does not make its votaries so bad, after all. We knew it then, but our wills were up, ahd we did not intend to have them broken down. But some Invisi- ble Power has wrought the change you see in your mother." "Yes, father, it is indeed an Invisible Power ; but is not its effect surpassingly beautiful As a plant springs out of the earth and unfolds its leaves to the genial rays of the sun, we are unable to analyze the power which caused it to vegetate; we can but watch with interest the bud of imprisoned odors, and wait for its prison to be unlocked, that its fragrance and beauty may pay us for the toil that we have bestowed upon it. So it is with the Holy Spirit, which oper- ates secretly upon the human heart, but yields the peaceable fruits of righteousness, and its beauties sur- pass the paradisiacal scene which was first opened to primeval innocence."   CHAPTER XXXIII. AUNT LUCY'S HOME. It was a lovely scene, That cottage 'mid the trees, And peerless England's shaven green, Peep'd their interstices between, While in each sweet recess, and grotto wild, Nature convers'd with art, or on her labors stil'd. It seem'd a parting hour, And she whose hand had made That spot'so beautiful with woven shade, And aromatic shrub and flower, Turn'd her from those haunts away, Though spring return'd each charm, and fondly wooed her stay. MisB. SIGOUBNEY. THE tim3 had come for Lucy to leave home for the first time without the special care of some one of her family. Many prayers were offered in her behalf. Lucy cherished the counsels of her mother with the fondness of a dutiful child. With father and mother she could part with a degree of resignation; but Leo- retta, dear Leoretta, how could she leave her, over whom  she had watched with all the solicitude of' a loving heart. But duty called her and she must go, for Lucy had an object in completing her education. She had long sighed for usefulness, and the time had O*     HALF-PAST TEN. come for her to make the first sacrifice, that she might be better prepared to labor in the Lord's vineyard. She spent several days in taking Leoretta from one favorite place to another, giving a graphic description of everything which she saw. Among these wasthe favorite ledge where she found William Oakley, on the morning that he was disinherited. There she lin- gered long, mnusing upon the chain of providences which had wrought such- a change in that family. When she compared the present with the past, she knelt down by the very same stone upon which Wil- liam sat, and there offered her oblation of praise and thanksgiving, and resolved that the same grace which had enabled them to break off their sins by righteous- ness, and their wickedness by turning unto God should be her trust and support; and that she would be guided by the Son of Righteousness, whose heal- ing beams could alone disperse the moral darkness of the human heart. Lucy's mother and Leoretta accompanied her to Mount Hope, where she was to enter upon her stCdent duties. Mrs. Marsden spent several days with her - daughter, and then returned home, to devote herself more particularly to Leoretta. Each anniversary of Lucy's school, crowned her with new honors. Her home-advantages had been so       AUNT LUCY'S HOME.      347  thorough that she was able to enter the advanced classes. Her Christian deportment, togetherwith her refined manners, won for her the esteem of her teach- ers. Though some of her classmates envied her, still she was treated with that respect which was due her uprightness. The second year her heart was cheered by Julia Oakley's becoming one of its inmates, and she at once attached herself to her, rendering her every assistance in her power. Julia had buried her mother only a few months be- fore. Lucy and her friends did all in th r power to assuage her grief, for Julia had lost istian moth- er, and her heart was bleeding at every pore. After Mrs. Oakley's conversion to truth, her home, which had so often been the place of confusion, had be- come the place of domestic happiness.  Her last hours were hours of rejoicing; her only anxiety was for those of her family who were out of Christ. Among the last requests which she made to her husband, was that Julia should be sent to school for two years. Mr. Oakley, anxious to fulfill every promise he had made his wife, as soon as he thought- he could endu're the loneliness of his home, sent Jnlia to school at Mount Hope, where she remained two years; at the expiration of which time Lucy graduated. The young ladies returned to Wilmington      48       HALF-PAST TEN'.- Mrs. Marsden had received many letters from Miss 3aldwin, desiring Lucyto come to England. Mrs. darsden knew that it would be an advantage to her laughter, and resolved to let her go. Hirome had al- 'eady finished his studies, and was going out as a geologist. Leoretta had, a few months previous, en- tered an Institution for the Blind. In September Lucy and Hirome were to sail for Liverpool. Julia and her husband-Colonel Leveret -was to accompany them to New York. They were to spend a few days in the city, as William Oakley was to be married to Miss Lawrence, and William was unwilling that his friends should leave the United States without seeing him settled with his young wife in his beautiful residence on the banks of the Hudson. Miss Lawrence  ad embellished this with the luxuries of wealth and taste. On the morning of her marriage she sent to William's fath- er a check of sufficient amount to clear his place of the heavy mortgage with which it was encum- bered. Lucy and Hirome bade adieu to Mrs. Leveret and Mrs. Oakley, with those sacred feelings of friendship which religion alone inspires. Nothing worthy of note transpired on the voyage. Hirome's heart was buoyant with hope, for his profession held out to him the incentives of perseverance and research, which   AUNT LUCYS OME.      83.9 vould lead him to distinction and usefulness. Lucy bought too much of mother, Leoretta, and home, to nter very heartily into her brother's joyous flow of pirits, and was glad when her aunt joined them at Liverpool. She found her the same Aunt Lucy there hat she had been in America. Lucywas pleased vith English scenery, but the sorber brown of au-s umn did not charm her, as it lacked the variegated olors of her native country to render it beautiful. 3njoying as she had from her infancy the grand sub- imity of mountain scenery, it was not to be wondered lt if blooming hedges and landscape gardens failed o inspire her with those lofty views of nature which he was wont to realize.  Everything about Miss Baldwin's English home gas delightful to Hirome and Lucy. If gardens, ,roves, and parks, with all their embellishments of muntains and arbors had been removed, it would still tave been delightful to them, because it was dear kunt Lucy's home. Hirome did not design to spend but a short time in England, and there were many persons and many ilaces to visit before he left. The Oxford colleges veree among the first. Charilaus Lorain and Lucy ere to accompany him to that place so renowned in istory. Charilaus had graduated at Oxford, and was herefore a suitable guide. He gave them no descrip-     HALF-PAST TEN. tion of the city nor of its institutions; being conscious that the reality would leave a deeper impression than any description which he could give. He first con- ducted them to the Magdalen College. The build- ings of this department cover eleven acres of ground, attached to which are highly decorated gardens. Evidently, the most rfined taste had been brought to bear upon them. Mr. Lorain then conducted them to Christ Church College. Hirome and his sister, were overwhelmed with the architectural beauty of these edifices. The extensive walls and battlements, together with the turrets and towers, first impressed them with the fact that they were indeed at Oxford- shire. The libraries in the different colleges deeply inter- ested Hirome and Lucy. Paintings and sculpture by the most renowned artists were found there. They had not time to visit the twenty different col- leges scattered through the city. Hirome and Lucy were anxious to visit London; so they drove hastily from one part of Oxford to another, taking in at a glance castles and palaces, many of them antique in style, which carried them .back in mind to the ancient Britons, when barbarism held its giant sway over the very spot which had since become the irradiating point of literature and learning. Weary with their day's excursion, they returned to   /   Aunt Lucy's, at Mulberry Grove, not to spend the evening at the plain summer-house where Lucy. had wept over her Michigan rose, but in one of the most tasteful arbors that England afforded; there to talk of the past, and speculate upon the bright future. The next morning being bright and beautiful, the trio set out on their journey to the great metropolis On arriving there, they stopped with an uncle of Mr. Lorain's, whose residence was in the west end of the city. There Lucy would look out of her window, dazzled and bewildered with the ealth and show of the aristocracy by which she was surrounded. She often proposed to her friends a visit to other portions f the city, where the most abject poverty meets the eye. She more than once visited the Ragged School and gladly would her benevolent heart have left home to become one of its teachers. They visited the Fire IMonument, and when Lucy was looking down from this tower upon the multitude below, she involuntarily sighed. "Why, Lucy, do you sigh," inquired Charilaus. "Because sorrowful thoughts crowd thick and fast upon my mind. While I compare the wealth of thou- sands, with the loathsome poverty and want of hun- dreds of thousands, and the crime and sin which fol. low in their train, my heart sickens at the thought."     HALF-PAST TEN.  "It is indeed sad to dwell upon, LcyS, but:you must remember that philanthropists have done-mRch, and are still doing all in their power to relieve suff^ ing humanity ; but there will always be in this great metropolis those whose crimes willrob themselves of everything in this life, so it may be truly said of them, that they possess naught of life but the, power of en- durance, and all of death save the quiet of the arave." grave." Has not the Charilaus, are they alone to blame? Haa not the hand of oppression riveted their chains, making their captivity, if possible, more revolting than our Ameri- can slavery. The English are loud and clamorous against this system in America, but I cannot con- ceive how they have confidence to raise their voice, while they are guilty of a crime of no less magnitude. If your national laws forbid the buying and selling of your fellow-men, it supports an aristocracy, forbids the rights of suffrage, and enslaves the laboring classes; while others unable, to labor, are driven from the haunts of what should be civilization, to the dens of misery and crime." "In part, Lucy, I think your views are correct. But the sins of our nation cannot be charged to. our government. According to the number of inhabi- tants in London and New York, I think you will find i     It is true, our goOq- crilne and degradation the same. It is true o gov   AUNT LUCY'S HOME.      353 ernment sustains an aristocracy, and draws a line of distinction between them and the laboring classes; but there are stars in our hemisphere shedding their halo of benevolence upon a portion of our- country, over which you sigh. Many of the poor are fed from the palaces of the rich, and in all of our cities there are vigilant committees, appointed by societies which are organizedfor the purpose of sending out suitable persons to go into the highways and hedges, to bring in the poor, the maimed, the halt, and the blind, and freely contribute to their wants and necessities. Still there are many who wear chains of their own forging, and in your own cities you will find the same grade of character. There has always been, in every age and in every country, the rich and the poor, the noble and the ignoble." "I think, Charilaus, if the principles of the gos- pel were acted upon, the heart would not be so often wrung at the sight of human suffering, as it is now; for doing unto others as we would that they should do unto us would become a living principle, and out of this would flow the principles of a universal brotherhood, and we should seek our neighbor's good as we would our own. Selfishness would be anni- hilated, and human suffering assuaged. The Priest and the Levite would no longer pass by on the other side. Queens would becomns nursing mothers, and     HALF-PAST TEN. kings would cherish their subjects with parental love; the prison doors of the innocent would be un- locked, and the down-trodden would no longer writhe beneath the iron heel of power." CHAPTER   XXXIV. HE  RESTS FROM    HS LABORS. See yon wrinkled brow, Where care and grief for many a year have trac'd Alternate furrows-bow'd so near those lips, Which but the honey and the dew of love, Have nourish'd. And, for each, eternal health Descendeth here. -Look! look I as yon deep veil Is swept aside, what an overwhelming page Disease hath written with its pen of pain I Ah t suffering sister, thou art hastning where No treacherous hectic plants its funeral rose: Drink thou the wine-cup of thy risen Lord, And it shall nerve thee for thy toilsome path, Through the dark valley of the shade of death. Ms. SIGouSRNY. HRowE had been silent. Taking out his watch, he told Charilaus and Lucy that they had no more time to discuss national subjects. "If I leave London to-morrow, I have no -time to lose. While you and Charilaus visit Madam Tassaud's Exhibition of Wax Work, I will call on Sir Charles Napier and Ebenezer Elliot, as I have business to transact with them for a gentleman in New York. It is now half-past three." Saying this, he hurried down the long stair-case, 23     356       HALF-PAST TEN. while Charilaus and Lucy made their descent at leisure.  Hirome took leave of his sister and friend early the next day, for France and Germany, for the purpose of examining their ancient lore. He was to spend several months in Italy, and Asia and Africa were both to be visited before his return. The various dan- gers to which he was liable depressed Lucy's spirits, though she had committed all his interests to her cove- nant-keeping God, feeling that assurance which the christian only realizes, that he would keep that which she had committed to his charge. After spending four weeks in London, she returned to Mulberry Grove. She found, as she expected, let- ters from the Ufited States. The one from Leoretta she read with peculiar interest. Leoretta told her that she had just returned from Mrs. Leveret's, where she had been spending two weeks. Leoretta said, "I can scarcely make myself believe that she is the same Julia that I used to be acquainted with when I was a little girl. She is one of the most kind and af- fectionate ladies I ever knew. She maintains the same christian character in adversity as in prosperity. While I was there she received a letter informing her that Joseph had been expelled from the military school. On receiving the tidings, she uttered no ex- pression of complaint, but went directly to her room.   HE RESTS FROM -HS LABORS.   357 When she returned to the parlor there was such a subdued tenderness in her voice, that my tears flowed unbidden. Dr. Oakley went immediately to West Point, for the purpose of restoring him or bringing him home; but Joseph. haq sailed, three days before he arrived, for South America. Dr. Oakley and his wife have visited me once since, at the Institution, and I am to spend the next vacation with them. Robert's health is failing." Lucy received several letters from home during the winter, each telling her of Robert's gradual decline. Early in the spring Robert made his last visit to his bower and grotto in the distant wood. He was con- fined to the house but a short time. His business was arranged with as much calmness as though he had been going ajourney. He never spoke of dying, but often talked of going home. He requested Leoretta to be sentfor. The day before she arrived he seemed restless and anxious. Looking up to Mrs. Marsden - he said, "I fear she will be too late, but I have asked my Heavenly Father to let me once more look upon her. She has been a great comfort to me. While I have endeavored to assist you in teaching her, I have been taught, by her example, the great principles of pa- tience; pid when I have felt desolate and alone, she has twined her arms arouneFi neck, and her inno-     HALF-PAST TEN. cent caresses have dispersed the gloom, and made me realize that I had something to live for. I used to read to her, but now I want her to read to me." Leoretta came the next morning. It was affecting to those who witnessed their meeting. After Rob- ert was able to speak, he said, "Now, darling, read to me the precious Word; then I shall be able to say with good old Simeon, 'Now lettest thy servant depart in peace.") Leoretta took her bible and seated herself by the side of the bed. In a low, pathetic voice, she read the twelfth chapter of Hebrews. A few hours later, and Leoretta could be seen- kneeling by the side of the bed, with the hand of the dying saint upon her head, and in a few moments more the spirit was disem- bodied, and angels bore it triumphantly to that rest which remaineth to the childrenof God. Robert's remains were laid in the village church-yard by the side of Susan's, and apure white marble marks his resting-place. Leoretta returned to her school, where she was be- loved and esteemed. She had already made rapid proficiency in her studies, and in her music she erx- celled all that had been there the same length of time. As a composer she was superior to any of her fellow- students. Mr. and Mrs. Marsden often visited her, and duty alone induced them to allow her to be ab- sent from her home-a home that had become deso- late.     HE RESTS FROM HS LABORS.    359 Mr. Marsden's business at length called him to the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Mrs. Marsden being unwilling that her husband should go alone, resolved to accompany him. Though they were to leave Wil- mington only for a year or two, there were many ex- pressions of regret made by their Wilmington friends. Dr. McNeil and his wife would probably miss them as much as any one. Mrs. Elliot knew that she was to be separated from those whom God had chosen as instruments to verify his promises to the widow and the orphan. Leoretta was to remain at school two years more, and at the expiration of that time Lucy would re- turn. Then ir. Marsden and his family would -be at Wilmington again. After an affectionate visit to New York. they started for the IGreat West,' im- pressed with the fact that it was not in man that walk- eth to direct his steps. On the second day they stopped at the village of T--,in Western New   t York, to spend the Sabbath with Franklin Goodrich,. and Floy, his wife. Mr. Goodrich had the pastoral charge of a large church, by whom he was greatly be- loved and  esteemed.  Brs. Goodrich was delighted with hearing directly from her Parents; and it was late before Wilmington was forgotten by the friends. (^-     HALF-PAST TEN. Dr. McNeil at first objected to his daughter's going so far from home, but Floy told him that she was willing to make a greater sacrifice than she was called to make for the cause of her Master. "If du    called my husband to Asia or Africa," said she, Cthere I would cheerfully go, and labor for him who laid aside the glory he had with the Father, to enter upon a mission which rtone but him was considered worthy to accomplish. It is the wil- ling and the obedient who eat the fruit of the land. If my faith in Christ is tried by no other ordeal, I shall consider my christian graces untested." lMr. Goodrich and his faithful wife visited from hbuse to house, administering to the spiritual and tem- poral wants of their parishioners, and to establish the truth of the gospel which he so faithfully preached; and many were added to his church, who will be found in that day when the Lord shall come to make up his jewels.   CHAPTER XXXV.   THE FOREST HOME. True hearted woman, with her smiles Of pure and holy love, In meek devotion bent to implore Protection from above. Aye, worship hbre, ye huLble souls, Pure as an angel's breath; Accepted by his holy name, Who loved you unto death. MRS. M. A. HowLAND. MR. AND MR. MABSDEm spent a week at the Sault Ste. Marie, which was a place of interest to them, and their thoughts went back to the time when the abo- rigines held an undisputed claim to the wavingforests, and those puresdeep waters, which they worshipped as their divinity.  Mr. Marsden said, as he stood on the margin of the lake, ' There are even now thousands who are blest with the gospel, who are more gross in their idolatry than the rightful owners of this soil were, when they paid their devotions to this vast body of water; and God forbid that I should count them sinners above all others." Mr. and Mrs. Marsden, after a  tedious passage up P     362       rHALF-PAST TEN. the lake, at length reached their place of destination. They had but little to inspire them with home feel- ings. Mrs. Marsden's health was such that her phy- sicians thought the pure air of that country would prove beneficial. They settled in one of the mining districts, and were surrounded by miners and their families; many of whom seemed more degraded than the Indians, who often visited their house. Mrs. Marsden was particularly impressed that she was on missionary ground. As soon as it was practicable she established an evening school, for she found it im- possible to collect the children in the day time, as every child that was large enough was expected to labor in some capacity about the mines. Her kind heart was often pained when she saw the dear little creatures handling the rough ore with unmittened hands, when it was so cold that the blood would start through every pore. Many were the pairs of mittens which she knit or made, and distributed among them. By this and other acts of kindness she gained their' confidence, and they soon learned to hail her as an angel of mercy. Her school became so large that it was impossible to do justice to it. In one of her letters to Lucy she gave a full description of her em- ployment, together with her school, half divining the effect it would have on Lucy's mind. Lucy showed the letter to her aunt, and told her at   TAIE FOREST HOME.     363 the amie' fime, tiat her stay in Englaud must be short. Her tint's benevolent heart could not object to the holy impulse; therefore preparations were made for Lucy toreturn to the United States. On arriving at New York she went immediately to Mrs. Leveret. She foutd Julia cast down, but not destroyed, and from her she learned the fate of poor Joseph. A. short time previots he had been killed in a duel by Mr. Woodbury. He had fallen in corm- pany with him alt the south, and the old grudge that - Mr. Woodbury held toward the Oakley family made him select Joseph as the victim upon whom he could wreak his vengeance. He lost no time in picking a quarrel with him, and at length sent him a challenge, and Joseph was killed or rather murdered by the vin- dictive scoundrel who had cherished his wrath till an opportunity should present itself to pour it out upon one who had never inj ured hm. But Mr. Woodbury's race was short. His baccha- nalan revels prepared for him a drunkard's grave- deepiS7ib men and rejeeted of God. The only leg- acy he left his relatives was his ignominious name. Lucy mingled her tears, with her friend, while she heard her story. Emma Goodrich was among the first to Administer to Mrs. Leveret's comfort, and her gentle spirit did much to soothe and alleviate her suf- ferings. In company with Etnma, Lucy visited the     364       HALF-PAST TEN. Institution for the Blind, where they found a box of clothing collected, which was to be sent to the west, with orders to dispose of them as Lucy and her moth- er should think proper. On examining the articles Emma and Lucy were delighted. When they in- quired of Leoretta how she obtained so many things, her simple answer was, O, Lucy, do you not know that I have a great many friends in the city? And whenever they come to see me, or I go to see them, I show them mamma's letter; and it is such a good letter, the same angel which moved the waters of Siloamor some other one--moved their benevolent hearts, and they were obliged to contribute something."  "But, Leoretta, did they not know that the children and their parents in the mines were both earning money X" "Why, Lucy, they know that, of course; but they know, too, that there is policy in war, even if it is a bloodless one. You must first gain the confidence and friendship of those you wish to benefit. The ar- ticles in this box will make them feel as if you cared for their temporal as well as their spiritual interests; and it will convince them that you are not selfish. Before these things are worn out, they will buy for themselves, and then they will be comfortable and happy. Youcansee that there are a great many more   THE FOREST HOME.      365 garments for the children than for the parents. As soon ,as I get through school, I mean-if you do not go back to Wilmington-to go up there to teach." The girls smiled through their tears, and Lucy said, "Then sister, you do not care about going back to Wilmington?" "Dear Lucy, 7 would like to visit that dear old spot, e'  -but if I could be useful, I would be willing to forego that pleasure. But have you heard from Hirome lately? Emma received a letter from him, last week. He was then at Alexandria " '  "I long to have him get back to Palestine, for his A descriptions are so graphic. His letters are public y property here, and they are read in the school-room / before all the students. They appear to be just as wli' acquainted with him as I am. We intend to have a festival when he returns. You, Miss Emma, of course will be invited. "Am I to be passed over uninvited, inquired Lucy?' "O, no, you shall be remembered in all our thoughts, and we will give you some testimony of our remenm - brance, too, on that occasion." "Now, Leoretta, it is time we were on our way home, and you must accompany us." "Dear Lucy, how glad I should be to go with you;       366       HALF-PAST TEN. but it is prayer-meeting night, and I never go out those nights. We must let our example accompany the precepts we give. You will not leave the city before to-morrow evening, and I will spend to-mor- row with you and Emma." According to the rhles of the Institution Leoretta. obtained leave of the superintendant to spend the day with her friends. It was a day long to be re- membered by the young ladies; each feeling that they had been benefited. Leoretta's joyous spirit shed a bright influence upon those with whom she mingled. Lucy ventured to ask her what she intended to do with the property that Robert had willed her." "Why, Lucy, I mean, as soon as I come in posses- sion of it, to purchase the mortgage that is on Mrs. Elliot's house and lot, in Wilmington. She told me, the last time I was there, that it would be impossible for her ever to pay it. Henry's salary is too small for him to do it. He has his mother and two brothers to support, and the boys, you know, must be sent to school." Lucy knew that if the mineral lands which Robert had willed to Leoretta should prove as valuable as the prospect was that they would, she could easily carry into effect her benevolent plans, and she knew of no one more worthy than dear Mrs. Elliot. In the evening Lucy again bade adieu to New   THE FOREST HOME.      367 York, and started alone on her western mission. Em- ma and Leoretta prayed that journeying mercies might attend her. Lucy, most of the time, was so charmed with western scenery, that she scarcely felt that she was alone. Her mind sometimes returned to one whom she knew was capable of appreciating' that which so much interested her. After a quick and prosperous voyage, she joinedher parents in their forest home, where she found her mother in better health than she had anticipated. During the early autumn she devoted much time to visiting and distribuing tracts and books among the inhabitants. Mrs. M sder found Lucy an efficient assistant. She therefore enlarged her school, and gave lessons twice a week to adults. At their usual prayer-meeting one Thursday evening, while Mr. Marsden was engaged in prayer, the door was noise- lessly opened, and Father Mercy entered unobserved and knelt near the door. When the petitioners ceased speaking, a solemn voice, once familiar to them, was heard. His thank-offering was fervent, as was his petition, when he invoked the descent of the holy spirit upon the truth which was so faithfully taught. The listeners observed that he did not address the Father through her whom he once considered the im- maculate Mother of Christ. He seemed Awed by the divine presence of Jehovah, conscious "that his ear     HALF-PAST TEN.  was not heavy that it could not hear, nor his arm shortened that it could not save." In the exercise 'of a living faith he pleaded the promises of a cruci- fied Savior, as one who expected and waited their fulfillment. Mr. Marsden closed the services by re- turning thanks to the Author and Giver of all their blessings. Two years had elapsed since they had heard any- thing of Father Mercy. He told his friends that on leaving Wilmington he commenced searching im- partially for truth, and through the divine blessings of God, and the operations of the holy spirit, he had been enabled to lay aside his former creed and em- brace the Protestant faith; but, he added, "I still love every truth that is embodied in the Ro- mish church, but its errors I have been obliged to re- ject. Still, for the people of my former choice I would cheerfully labor, and for. the truth I would gladly teach them. I am willing to die. I never loved them more sincerely than now." Father Mercy left his friends the day following, for the next settlement, where he designed to labor through the winter. Mrs. Marsden continued her evening school, together with the Sabbath school and bible class, which was taught by Mr. Marsden.   CHAPTER XXXVI. "AS THY SOUL LIVEtH THERE Is BUT A STEP BETWEEN THE AND DEATH!" How beautiful, upon t e mountain, are the feet of those who bring us glad tidings; p ecious in the sight of the Lord, is the death of his saints. Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken t the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern.  Then shall the dust ret urn to the earth, as it was; and the spirit shall return unto God w 1o gave it.          s   DtIBLE. IN June Lucy visited the Ross Settlement, where she found the daughter of Mrs. Merrit. She was then a widow in indigent circumstances. The labors of Father Mercy had been blessed in that vicinity, and among the happy converts was this lonely widow, who looked and appeared so much like her mother, that Lucy was at once interested in her behalf. Lucy found. upon inquiry that she had heard nothing from her brother.  After spending two weeks in that settlement, she started for home, taking with her one of Mrs. Walk- er's boys. She performed the journey on horseback, as they were obliged to follow an Indian trail. On arriving at home, she found letters from her aunt and 24   I     HALF-PAST TEN. brother, and was delighted to find that H rome was orneward-bound, though two years would elapse be fore she could see him. Miss Baldwin spoke of the declining health of Mr. and Mrs. Blavette, and that she should not consider England her home after their death. A   few weeks later she received a letter from Mrs. Walker, bearing the glad tidings of her brother Cy- renus return; also, informing them of his succes in business, and that he had, from his ample fortune), made arrangements for the education of her children, and had purchased for her and her family, in one of New England's quiet villages, a pleasant cottage, sur- rounded with all the beauties that wealth could pro- cure; adding, "My cup of blessing is full, for which I thank ay Heavenly Father.  CTrenus had not "heard of or mother's death, until he heard you, dear Lucy, relate the history to some ladies at the hotel-landng, at Wilmington, where he had just left the steamboat, with the sanguine hopes of cheering the heart of his devoted mother with his presence. ,Overwhelmed with disappointment, he immediately reembarked, and has been a lonely wanderer ever nce. Two days after you left our settlement he visited this place and through Father Mercy he found me out. Indeed, the Lord has been better to me than all my fears."   tA STEP BETWEEN THEE AND DEATH."   371'          ] Mr. Marsden, at this time, was making arrange- ments to erect a house of worship, after hi return from eew York and Philadelphia, where  usiness called him. Liberal donations were made to aid him in his benevolent enterprise. Soon after his return home, hle hlad the pleasure of seeing a commodious house erected, which answered the two-fold purpose of school-house and chapel; but he did not long en- joy its privileges, for he was removed to that upper sanctuary where  "Congregations ne'er break up, And Sabbaths never end."   The circumstances accompanying his death were painful, but they were not without their solace. Mr. Marsden left home in good health, saying to Lucy as he gave her his good-by kiss, "I shall probably re- turn before sundown. I wish you would visit Mr. and Mrs. Williams, for they are both sick. They have temporal wants to be supplied as well as, spiritu- al; they have long been searching for the hidden treasures, which can alone be found in Christ. Tell them of the love of Jesus, and that he died for them." Lucy's eyes filled with tears as he closed the door. Looking out at the window, she saw the fishing-party as they stepped into their small boats and rowed out into the lake. Mrs. Marsden observed Lucy's sad countenance, and inquired the cause. /  372       HALF-PAST TEN. "I cannot 411, dear mamma, what it is that de- presses my spirits so, but I wish papa had staid at homne." "I think you ought not to wish so-it is so seldom that he allows himself a day of recreation.. When flis time is not occupied with his businessz he is visit- ing the sick or giving advice to some one, for many of the inhabitants depend upon him for counsel." "I know it, dear mamma, and it seems as if I loved him more and more." "That, Lucy, is probably because you are more capable of appreciating his worth. He has been as you see him now for many years. But it is time, my dear, that you were putting on your things to go to Mr. Williams'. I have put such things into the basket as I thought they would need. It is so full that you will have to take this paper of rice in your hand." "Mamma, I wish dear Leoretta was here to go with me. All these dark clouds that have come over my mind would be chased away." '4 Well, Lucy, we shall either go to her in another year, or she shall come to us. I feel as if the separa- tion had been already too long." "Well, good-by, and with the anticipation I will try and cheer my spirits." Lucy found the invalids as her father told her,   'A STEP BETWEEN THEE AND DEATH." 7fS3 needing the bread, "whereof, if one eats, he will no more hunger;" and that she endeavored to adminis- ter, pointing them to that fountain which would be in their soul "like a well of water, springing up into everlasting life." Lucy returned home, con- scious that she had done her duty, leaving the results with One who she knew often "chose the meek things' of this world to confound the mighty." It was sundown when shearrived, and the wind was- blowing hard from the north. She watcWed, as long as there was a ray of light, with undefined anxiety the heavy swells as they dashed like molten waves against the shore. Mrs. Marsden and Lucy looked anxiously at each other, but neither spoke of the dark forebodings which were already causing involuntary sighs, that told more than words could possibly have expressed. The clock struck twelve, and the father and hus- band had not yet come. The mother and daughter spent a sleepless night and as soon as the purple morn gilded the eastern rizon, Lucy put on her bonnet and shawl, and went to the nearest neighbor, to in- quire if the gentlefan of the house had returned. The door was opened by the lady. Lucy's agitation was too great for her to notice her swollen eyes, or the deep emotion that almost choked her utterance.     374       IALF-PAST TEN. She hastily inquired if Mr. Roberts came home last night? When told that he did, she asked, "Where is my father?" "Doforgive us, dear Lucy, but we did not dare tell you last night." As white as Parian marble, Lucy stood, vainly striving to speck. Mrs. Roberts put her arm around her, and told her, "One of the boats was upset, and two of the men were drowned ' "And my father " "Yes, dear Lucy, your father was one!" Lucy sank insensible into the arms of her weeping friend. When conciousness was again restored, her first words were, "I must go to my mother." She endeavored to quiet the tumult of her heart, and accompanied by Mrs. Roberts, returned home; but Mr. Roberts had preceded them, preferring to communicate the sad news to Mrs. Marsden, and spare Lucy the painful task. Mrs. Marsden received the tidings with unusual calmness. She met Lucy at the door, and putting her arms around her, drew her close to her bosom, saying, "The Lord has given, and the Lord has taken away, and cannot we say, my child, 'even so Father,   'A STEP BETWEEN THEE AND DEATH."  375 for so it seemeth good in thy sight.'"The Widow and fatherless sought comfort from Him who has promised to be "a father to the fatherless, -and the widow's God." The inhabitants sought in vain to obtain the body of their friend and benefactor; but the equinoctial storm being more *vere than usual that season, they failed in their noble efforts. It was too late in the season for Mrs. Marsden to settle her husband's business and return to Wilming- ton, before navigation should close. At times they shrank from the loneliness of the long winter that was before them, yet they were convinced that there was still work for them to do, and they resolved, with the grace of God assisting them, to continue their labors as they had planned them before Mr. Marsden's death. Lucy therefore, continued her school, and her recent bereavement seemed to invigorate all her christian energies, making her, if possible, more active than before. They received but few letters from their eastern friends during that inclement season. J      CIAPTER XXXVII. THE BRAVE HEART, OR I WAIT FOR THEE. No towering marble fane, Nor ivied walls were there; It stood beneath the shadowing hills A simple place of prayer. MRs. M. A. HOWLAND. And then I think of one, who in her youtlful beauty died, The fair, meek blossom that grew up and faded by my side: In the cold moist earth we laid her when the fir cast her leaf, And we wept that one so lovely should have had a life so brief; Yet not unmeet it was, that one like that young friend of ours, So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers. W. C. BRYANT. IF Lucy's eastern friends could have seen her dur- ing the holiday week, busily engaged with fifteen or twenty children, decorating their little chapel with the choicest evergreens, forming a net-work that reached nearly from ceiling to ceiling, carefully festooned and fastened at every loop with mountain moss, they would have rejoiced at the cheerful resignation of her young heart.  The pulpit where her father had often read service, was trimmed with the same deli- cate care.  More than once Lucy went into the woods with the children to select what she thought would be the most appropriate. The work of dec6ra-   THE BRAVE HEART.      3" tion was at last completed? and upon the first day of the year a festival, long to be remembered by those who enjoyed it, was held. Mrs. Marsden took an active part in entertaining the children; but the weather being severe, she con- tracted a cold which brought on a fever. In three weeks she had partially recovered. Lucy wrote to her friends all that had transpired, but her long, in- teresting letters were not received till spring. er dear Leoretta, to whom many of them were addr ssed,  had bid a joyful adieu to earth before they grived. While Lucy had been toiling in the foist of the west, Leoretta's no less ambitious spirit had done all \ that she could, through the assistance of others, to re- lieve suffering humanity. The last of January she  returned to Mrs. Elliot's at Wilmington, where she was joined in a few days by Emma. ,Each heart swelled with anticipation as they talked of the past and laid plans for the future. Aunt Lucy, Hirome, and Mr. Lorrain, were daily expected. Leoretta, in her vivid imagination, saw the old homestead fitted up, and the family to whom she was so much in- debted, enjoying all the quiet that religion could be- stow; but she was soon convinced that "man ap- points but God disappoints." One evening, after a  visit to the home of her childhood, she complained of unusual weariness, and early' retired to her room. '                ^      378 .     HALF-PAST TEN. Day after day elapsed, and the fever with which she was prostrated abated not. Emma and Mrs. Elliot watched night and day. 'Consciousness returned, and sanguine hopes were cherished that she would recover. She was too weak to converse much, but she seemed conscious that her earthly pilgrimage was drawing to a close. One morning after a sleepless night, she called Mrs. Elliot to her bed and requested her to send for Esquire Cleveland. Mrs. Elliot was deeply moved at this, but complied with her wish. After being alone with him a short time, Emma and another friend was called to witness her will. Every eye but hers was suffused with tears. She lay with her hands clasped, and her countenance expressive of that peace which the world cannot give. Just before the sun sank below the western horizon, three travelers arrived at the house of Mrs. Elliot. Leoretta had fallen into a quiet sleep, while Emma carefully watched each beating pulse. The doorwas quietly opened and she was beckoned to the hall. She cautiously left the room, and as she closed the door, she heard the well-known voice of Miss Baldwin. She was told that Hirome and Mr. Lorrain were with pher. "Will it answer to tell Leoretta " inquired Henry. Emma returned to Leoretta, and found her awake,   THE BRAVE HART.       79 and apparently much refreshed. As her quick ear caught a sigh she extended her hand and said, "Do not sigh, dear Emma, for I want to talk to you a little. 'Tell dear mamma and Lucy that death has been robbed of its sting, and the grave of its vic- tory. Tell Aunt Lucy and Hirome that I love them. I had hoped that they would get here before this." "Did you know, dear Leoretta, that they had arrived in America " asked Emma. "No, dear Emma; perhaps they will be here to-  night; let me know as soon as they come." They are down stairs now, waiting for you to send for them." With a sweet smile she requested Emma to call them immediately. Siss Baldwin, with her usual tenderness, folded to her hbosm one over whose child- hood she had carefully watched. Hirome's manly form shook with emotion, as he took the hand of his dying sister. Miss Baldwin watched her during the night. She failed fast, and it was evident to the family that a few hours would close the scene; and it was so. Her pure spirit took its flight, leaving the lifeless tene- ment, around which many wept. A stranger officiated at the funeral, and Leoretta was buried in the old church-yard at Wilmington. Miss Baldwin was to     HALF-PAST TEN. / remain with Mrs. Elliot, while Hirome returned to New York. Lucy did not hear of Leoretta's death till late in the spring, and if was well that she did not; for her heart and hands were full. She had watched with intense anxiety the waning strength of her dear mother, hoping that the returning spring would ef fect a favorable change in her health. But alas, each day told that the .silver cord of life was being loosed, until at length the wheels of nature ceased their motion, and "death was swallowed up in victory." Friends and neiglhbors did all that was in their power to lighten the heavy burden that their dear Lucy had to bear. The birds were already making vocal the air with their rich melodies, while the soft winds of spring sighed through the forest, as it held up its tiny leaves laden with the odors of spring. On this day labor was suspended, and every heart in the settlement, and every countenance, wore an expression of sadness; for another had been taken from their circle, that had long sought their temporal and spiritual good. The little chapel which had been so recently erect- ed, was the second time opened to pay the last tri- bute of respect to one who had been so anxious for its erection. Lucy, though deeply conscious that the prayers and counsels of her mother had ceased, felt   THE BRAVE HEART.   381   that deep serenity of soul which is experienced only by those whose will is swallowed up in His-" who bade the troubled waters be still." Lucy had but a short time to endure the loneliness of her western home; she was joined by her brother and his lovely bride, Eima, and also Mr. Lorain, bringing the sad news of Leoretta's death. Lucy returned to her old home in Wilmington, which Miss Baldwin had spared no pains in fitting up. Mr. Lorain succeeded Dr. McNiel, and became rector of the church at Wilmington, here with Lucy, his devoted wife, he labored for the salvation of those who were committed to his charge; and as the seasons for flowers returns, fresh garlands are placed upon Leoretta's grave by one who bears her name, and whose devoted parents have taught her the princi- ples of "doing unto others as ye would that others would do unto you."   THE END.     
         
      
   
