
    ----CITATION----
        Dupuy, Eliza A. (1814-1881). Annie Selden, or, The Concealed Treasure .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6336
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ANNIE SELDEN, OR THE CONCEALED TREASURE. 
             
            BY ELIZA A. DUPUY. AUTHOR OF "THE CONSPIRATOR," "CELESTE, OR THE PIRATE'S DAUGHTER," "FLORENCE, OR THE FATAL VOW," "THE SEPARATION," "DIVORCE," ETC., ETC. 
            
               CINCINNATI: 
               H. M. RULISON, QUEEN CITY PUBLISHING HOUSE, 115 MAIN STREET. 
               NEW YORK: 
               A. RANNEY, 195 BROADWAY.
             
            1854. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by H. M. RULISON. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court, for the District of Ohio. 
            
               E. MORGAN & CO., STEREOTYPERS, PRINTERS, AND BINDERS, 111 MAIN STREET.
             
          
       
      
         
            Annie Selden, or, The concealed treasure 
             
            THE CONCEALED TREASURE. 
             
               
                  
                     CHAPER
                     CHAPTER
                   I. 
               A SOLITARY house stood alone, surrounded by uncultivated fields, which had evidently long been lying fallow. The old mansion was grim, gray, and desolate in its outward appearance: the storms of winter had battled over it, shaking the crazy walls to their foundation, and the summer's sunshine had played upon it, without seeming to impart any portion of its warmth and vivifying brightness to the old structure. The lawn, which once spread around in green beauty, was now a wilderness of weeds, and the unpruned trees rattled their shaggy branches against the dilapidated casements. 
               In the rear was an orchard, which shared the neglect every thing around indicated, though it was evident that this desolate spot had once been a large and flourishing plantation. On the hill-side, about half a mile from the dwelling, the ruins of a small village of single cottages were still visible, and the clinging vines and autumn foliage, which clustered over and around them, imparted an air of romantic interest to what had been the homes of the happy and contented slaves who once tilled the soil for an indulgent master, and found beneath his just rule more than the ordinary share of enjoyment afforded to the "hewers of wood and drawers of water" in any portion of the world. 
               The land lay in sunny slopes and shadowy dells, girdled by gently swelling hills; and the forlorn mansion seemed a blot upon its sylvan beauty. Its dark and sombre appearance, its dilapidated, moss-grown walls, had gradually inspired the thinly settled neighborhood with a vague terror; and for years it had been known as the "haunted house" why, no one could tell, unless the attenuated figure which might sometimes be seen gazing from the windows with an abstracted expression, were mistaken for the phantom of the owner; though no man had heard that he had actually thrown off this "mortal coil," and joined the spirits of the disembodied. 
               Clifford Manor had in its palmy days been a fine country residence, built in the primitive Gothic style, which was favored in England in the reign of Elizabeth, and of which a few specimens still exist in the States of Maryland and Virginia. The first Clifford who had emigrated to America with Sir Walter Raleigh, had obtained a grant of land in the northeastern part of the State; had built him a residence thereon, in imitation of the paternal mansion in the mother country, and founded a family, which now had dwindled down to two representatives; a lonely and slightly deranged man, with one child, a son. 
                
               The old house abounded in intricate corridors, and doors opening from unexpected places into rooms with heavily carved ceilings of walnut; the deep gloom thus produced being scarcely relieved by the narrow casements, with the light of day feebly struggling through the small panes of glass, incrusted with the accumulated dust of years. 
               But one apartment in this vast rambling mansion was occupied. This was situated in a wing on the eastern side, and opened upon a terrace-walk, on which vases of antique and graceful forms were placed; but the flowers which once had graced them, had long since perished for want of care. This wing was evidently of more modern origin than the main body of the building; it contained a room of fair proportions, but moldering to decay like the remainder of the structure. In place of the heavy pannelings, the walls were plastered, and ornamented with gilt moldings, tarnished by time and damp, but still imparting an air of elegance to what had once been the home of youth, hope, and happiness. Several large mirrors covered with dust occupied the spaces between the windows, and the heavily carved old-fashioned furniture bore the same evidences of want of care. A faded carpet covered the floor, and a small fire burned in the neglected grate, for the evening was chilly, though it was yet early autumn. In front of this was placed a cushioned chair of comfortable appearance, which was occupied by a tall, thin figure, so gaunt and cadaverous, that one who suddenly entered the apartment might be pardoned for mistaking it for a phantom. This personage wore a suit of rusty black, and his thin hand, as it rested on the arm of the chair, seemed almost transparent. His features where white and wasted, but delicately cut, and in the gleaming of the dark eyes alone could be traced a slight wildness, which indicated something like alienation of mind. Brightly spiritual was the expression of those burning orbs, as they seemed to look into far vistas opening before the imagination of the solitary dreamer. 
               A book lay open before him, and from its ponderous size, one might have mistaken it for the holy volume; but a nearer view would have proved it to be "Clairvoyant Revelations," by Andrew Jackson Davis. The recluse had been reading that portion of this singular production which professes to describe the condition of disembodied spirits; and, like all imaginative persons, he was struck with its beauty, with its conformity to the benevolence of the All-Father. According to this, the better portion of each human being, however debased-and none are altogether vile-is received into a sphere in which that germ of good will be cherished, matured, and expanded, until that soul is fitted for a higher region of happiness, whence it passes from grade to grade, gradually purified and exalted, until it is prepared to enter the highest realm, over which infinite Goodness casts the radiance of his presence. Beautiful theory! Consoling belief for the hapless heir of ignorance, poverty, and crime! 
               Such were the thoughts that filled the mind of the lonely reader, as twilight darkened around him, and cast its dim shadows upon the pages he read with such absorbing interest. 
               "Yet," he murmured, "why should I grasp at such a belief? Alas! it must be ages before I, with all my imperfections, can reach the sphere into which my lost Ida was long since received. She was pure and lovely when she entered the portals of the unseen world, and many dark and dreary years have rolled away since she left me a lonely wanderer upon the earth. Ah, long since has she been received into the highest heaven, which may be barred to me for ages. O, Ida! sweet spirit of love! bright angel of beauty, who once made my life a heaven on earth, come to me again in the radiant form you once wore! Thrice have you stood beside me and whispered hope, courage to my stricken soul! Come to me again, my lost love! fill the dreary waste around me with the magic of your presence, and give me courage to drag on this wretched, lonely, purposeless existence!" 
               As he uttered these words, his voice gradually arose from lowly breathed sounds to a pitch af wild anguish; he started up, and throwing his book aside, strode to and fro the room, tossing his arms above his head, while his eyes-glanced wildly around, as if seeking in the dusky twilight the approach of the being he had invoked. 
               While his excitement was at its hight, the door leading into the body of the house partly unclosed, and for a brief moment a young girl stood looking on the wild figure that flitted before her with maniac strides, and gestures that struck terror to her soul. But she soon overcame this emotion; and as he turned from it, she again softly unclosed the door and looked eagerly into the room. 
               By the feeble light that still lingered, a fair face could be seen peeping from a dark hood, which covered her head, and a few bands of raven hair lay upon a cheek as fair and colorless as marble. A large shawl enveloped a figure above the medium hight, and fell in graceful folds nearly to her feet. She listened with breathless interest to the words of the excited man, and the expression of fear passed away almost immediately, while a smile of strangely mingled meaning flitted over her features. She stepped quietly back, and drew the door toward her, so as to secure her person from observation, while she listened to the wild mutterings of the recluse with an intensity of interest, the source of which it was difficult to comprehend. 
               He continued to invoke the spirit of his lost Ida-he recalled hours of happiness passed beside her; and from his ravings, the listener gathered enough to furnish a clue to at least a portion of his history. Perhaps it was a girlish freak which led to what followed, or perhaps the listener had deeper meaning in her actions; but be it as it might, at a sudden turn in his agitated walk, when the door was in full view, it slowly unclosed, and she stood before Mr. Clifford with her shawl draped around her head in such a manner as partially to conceal her features. 
               Twilight had nearly faded away, and the faint glimmer from the fire was all that gave light to the large room, while the white figure, which seemed to arise before him in answer to his summons, loomed distinctly against the dark back-ground of the corridor beyond. The recluse stopped suddenly, and in a sharp, excited tone, exclaimed- 
               "Who-who art thou?" 
               A low, sweet voice responded, 
               "You have called me, and I come." 
               Clifford attempted to rush forward, with his arms outstretched as if to clasp her in their embrace, but she imperatively said, 
               "No nearer, or you scorch and wither as the dried leaf thrown on the blazing hearth. Know you not that the children of men can not come in contact with those purified by the heavenly flames of divine love, without risking the destruction of their earthly vestiture of clay?" 
               As she thus spoke, she raised her hand, and made several mysterious signs upon the air; these seemed to possess the power to arrest him, for he stood rooted to the spot as if incapable of moving. 
               "Ida-my Ida!" he exclaimed in heartrending tones, "let me approach thee! let me touch thee, even if I perish in the attempt!" 
               "Know you not that I should pass from you as a shadow?" asked the same carefully modulated voice. "Your hand would only be scathed by the atmosphere of flame which my presence would leave behind it. I will come at your bidding-I will commune with you many times in future, if you will promise to abide by the conditions I shall impose." 
               "Angel of my wasted life! I will promise any thing to behold you as I now do! To hear the liquid tones of your sweet voice, which have a softer tone than even in days of yore." 
               "Adhere to your plighted word, and I will not fail in mine. Your anguish, your sufferings, have been conveyed to the world of spirits by those privileged ones who are permitted to visit earth on errands of benevolence; and after long wrestling, I have once again been permitted to approach you, to brighten your solitude, to bring joy to your desolation." 
               "Thanks-thanks, my adorable Ida. And now tell me how it fares with you in the world of beatified spirits? Are you happy, separated from me, knowing, too, how weary are all the days of my life?" 
               "I can see the reward, while you only suffer the anguish. I am permitted to know that the struggles you undergo purify and exalt your nature; and when the solemn hour arrives in which the spirit is severed from the body, the sphere into which yours will be received approximates so nearly to mine, that we shall not long be parted. Know, too, that there I shall be the appointed minister of good to you; through my influence shall your spirit more nearly claim kindred with the infinite perfection to which we both aspire." 
               "O, glorious thought! ineffable reality of bliss!" exclaimed the listener, sinking on his knees with clasped hands. "Ruler of the infinite, hasten the hour in which my spirit may throw aside this clogging frame of clay! Tell me, holy, one, dare I hasten that hour?" 
               "I warn you, that if such violence be committed, you will enter the first sphere, in which the lowest development of humanity is received. There, amid the outcasts of the human race, you will slowly regain what you have sacrificed by your rash act. God permits not violence to be offered to the temple in which he has enshrined a portion of his own immortal spirit, without long and bitter expiation of the sin." 
               "But suffering does not end with death. Yonder book teaches that even the vilest shall be purified and exalted." 
               "True; such faith is in consonance with the benevolence of God. But with him who has hurled himself from a higher earthly condition, will be the ever-present consciousness of his self-debasement, until he shall progress to that sphere he might at once have attained by diligent cultivation of the capacities bestowed on him by a beneficent Maker, and the constant observance of his word." 
               "Beautiful faith, which gives to struggling, tempted humanity, the power to emulate the virtues of the angels of heaven! To seek by self-cultivation to draw nearer to the God-head!" exclaimed the still kneeling man, in an ecstasy of adoration. "I will bear my burden cheerfully; I will seek after that which is pure and holy, and praise the Creator of all, even though he slay me." 
               "Do this, and great shall be your reward," replied the visitor, raising her hand, and by a few mystic motions removing the spell under which the recluse had apparently been placed during the interview. As she did this, she rapidly receded, closed the door, and fled along the darkened passage with light steps. 
               She heard the door open-heard a voice entreating her to return, but this only lent wings to her footsteps, as she threaded her way through the intricate windings of the rambling house; until she found herself near a half open door which led into the yard. She passed out, taking the precaution to close it after her, that no clue to her means of ingress should be afforded to the lonely tenant. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               IN the increasing obscurity, well-known as all the windings of the house were to the pursuer, he very nearly lost his way. After the first exaltation of feeling had subsided, he became aware of the necessity of return-in to his own apartment as speedily as possible; for extreme chilliness began to pervade his attenuated frame in those vault-like chambers, and spite of his efforts to control them, his teeth chattered with cold alone, for no emotion of terror had passed over his soul. All there was calm, and he was happy beyond expression in the belief that he had indeed stood face to face with the loved and lost of early days. Her promise to return he fully trusted in, and he rejoiced in the belief that henceforth his solitude would be brightened by the beloved presence, and even when invisible, the sweet spell would still be around him. 
               These were certainly the visions and reveries of a diseased mind, which in solitude had preyed upon itself; but for the present, at least, he was happy-ineffably happy; for he cherished not a doubt of the reality of the presence which so lately had stood visibly before him, and uttered words so consoling to his over-wrought mind. 
               The spiritual visitant was not the only one Mr. Clifford was destined to receive that evening. On reaching the apartment he had so lately left, he found the fire replenished from a basket of coals which stood in one corner, and by the bright light it emitted, he beheld a young man of pleasing exterior seated composedly in front of it, in a large chair which he had dragged forward from its place against the wall. From his air of complete tranquility, it was evident he was no stranger there; neither did the owner of the place manifest any surprise at his appearance. 
               At the noise made by the closing door, the new-comer raised his eyes, and fixed them on the pale shadow that advanced toward the genial heat of the fire. He was a prepossessing looking person. His frame was well knit, combining both strength and grace; his features were pleasing, and a quantity of light waving hair fell away from a high brow on which intellect was stamped with that divine seal which can not be mistaken. Yet about the well-formed mouth was an expression of indecision which seemed also to stamp upon him the curse pronounced against him of old to whom it was said-"Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel." 
               To an observant eye there were also evidences of freedom of life, if not of actual dissipation. His dress was of the finest materials, and made in the extreme of fashion; and his air was that of one accustomed to find his will the controlling power over those around him. He arose from his chair, and with a frank smile, which was extremely captivating, advanced to meet Mr. Clifford, as he said: 
               "Why, father, I found your den even gloomier than usual; and what is rare, you absent from it. I took the liberty to brighten it up a little, in expectation of your speedy return; and by my faith you seem to need it more than ever. Why, your hand is cold as that of the dead." 
               'Marvel not at that, when the dead have been with me," said Mr. Clifford, with an expression of intense excitement, which lighted up his wan features, and imparted vivid brilliancy to his singularly dark and gleaming eyes. There was solemn and earnest joy in the intonations of his voice, and his son gazed on him with sorrowful earnestness, while he unconsciously muttered: 
               "What hallucination is this? Ah, can the old disease be returning? It is long since he has spoken of such a delusion." 
               "It was no delusion," said the elder Clifford, with the solemnity of deep conviction. "She stood there, in that doorway, and spoke such words of love and consolation as will never be forgotten by me." 
               "She. Who do you mean, poor father?" 
               "There is but one I can mean, impious scoffer at my dreams and visions, as you have so often called them. Your mother stood before me in the fadeless beauty of her early youth, and communed with me in words such as mortals utter." 
               "My mother!" repeated the young man, growing slightly pale. "Her memory is to me so sacred, that even from you I can not hear unmoved the assertion that her disembodied spirit suffers from such unrest as to leave the home of the blessed to wander around the scenes which were once familiar to her." 
               "It is nevertheless true. I beheld her with these eyes-I knelt within a few feet of her, and had not some invisible power withheld me, I could have touched the hem of her garment." 
               "If this is no delusion, you have been cruelly deceived. Some unprincipled person has played a trick upon you, which should be severely punished." 
               "It was no trick. I saw her; I knew her, and even the tones of her voice were familiar to me. But enough. I shall not permit you to argue me out of the conviction of my own senses. Reginald Clifford, what brings you hither so soon again?" he abruptly asked. 
               "The wish to see after you," replied the young man. "You have grown so wan and thin of late, that I am uneasy about your health. This confounded old den is enough to kill you, and yet you will persist in remaining in it." 
               "I cling to it, my son, because this old ruin is better suited to my blighted manhood and studious habits than a less lonely home would be. Have I not once trusted to the mercy of my fellow man, and my harmless eccentricities were branded as madness, and years of my life were spent in the ignominy of chains? I was at length dismissed as incurable, but harmless. Ha! ha! I can laugh at the stupidity of those wiseacres now, though then it goaded me to the soul; it nearly verified their words. But I have outlived it. No one says I am mad now." 
               "Poor father," said Reginald, compassionately ately. "Do not refer to that. Do not recal that bitter past." 
               "Yes, my son, I will recal it, and with it the fact that you believed not the tale. That you restored to me the right of doing as I pleased with my own, so soon as you were of an age to act legally. I have not forgotten that, Reginald. I have not been a niggardly father to you, nor will I ever be such." 
               These words changed the sombre current of the young man's thoughts, and he replied: 
               "I am glad to hear that, sir, for my errand here was twofold. First, to see if you were comfortable, and secondly, to prefer a request for a new supply, for I am quite broke-completely cleaned out." 
               Mr. Clifford regarded him fixedly, and after a pause, he said, with extreme gravity: 
               "Reginald, it is time that your follies were buried, and better fruit germinating from them. I have not desired to check you in your career, because I wished you to prove for yourself the hollowness of the world and its pleasures; but of late, so constant is your demand for money, that I am constrained to believe you have found a new excitement in the gaming table. Say, is it not so?" 
               The young man blushed, and then grew pale. His lips unclosed, as if to reply, but no sound issued from them. 
               "I am answered sufficiently," said the father, sorrowfully. "I can plainly see this great and devouring curse has laid its fatal blight upon you; unless it is resisted, the fine talents with which you are gifted; the noble aspirations which once filled your youthful soul, will be buried in the excitement, the ignominy of the gambler's career. Pause; reflect while there is yet time, and save yourself from so dark a fate." 
               "At least I can find in it the excitement my soul revels in," replied the young man. "Like every thing else, it will exhaust itself; and the money I can well afford to lose. Beyond a certain point I shall not go." 
               "Aye; so reason all tyros who have wealth at command. The passion grows on him who indulges it. Wait until you have hazarded your last chance, and then see what the excitement becomes. A burning and earnest desire to regain what you have lost will consume you, until reckless and despairing at repeated disappointments, you will-but I shrink from the completion of the picture. O, Reginald, think of her who breathed a mother's blessing upon your youthful head with the last accents of expiring existence, and turn not from the path of rectitude she prayed you might ever walk in." 
               The young man appeared deeply moved. He arose, and paced the floor in silence, while his father regarded him with serious attention. Mr. Clifford at length said: 
               "Listen to my history, Reginald; bear the fearful ordeal through which I have passed. It may be received as a warning, or, like others of your age, you may still wish to purchase experience for yourself, however fearful may be the price at which it is attained." 
               Reginald paused at these words, and again threw himself on his seat. 
               "Go on, sir," he said. "I listen, and I am willing to be warned; though God knows what I may not do under the influence of strong temptation." 
               "Ay; there is your fault; infirmity of purpose. It is the heirloom of my family." 
               Mr. Clifford pressed his hand to his forehead, and seemed to be recalling the long past years of his youth. He at length began in a subdued voice: 
               "You know that I commenced life the heir to prosperous fortunes. I was liberally educated; possessed popular manners, and found myself of considerable importance in the circle I frequented. Men older than myself, listened with attention to my opinions, and women smiled on me. For a time, I was completely intoxicated with this species of success; but the inevitable fate of the mere pleasure-seeker at length overtook me. I became wearied and disgusted, and pined for some new excitement. I sought to fall in love, but the divine passion would not come at my bidding, and as a last resource, I fell into the snare which a party of gay young men had long been preparing for me. 
               "I was enticed to the gaming table, and at first, as always happens, was successful. Then came the inevitable reaction, and night after night I lost large sums, until I stood a beggar where so lately I had entered as a man of independent fortune. But few weeks had been necessary to consummate my ruin. 
                
               "Downcast, degraded, despairing, I rushed from the house, uncertain in my bewilderment what course I was pursuing. I had no distinct object in view; to exhaust the surging billows of self-condemnation by violent motion, seemed my instinctive feeling. I had walked until I was faint from fatigue, when a hand was suddenly laid on my own, and a voice spoke close beside me, which I recognized as belonging to my late antagonist. 
               "'I have found you at last,' he said. 
               "I drew back, and raised my hand menacingly. 
               "'Leave me-your aim is accomplished, and I am a beggar. Since nothing more is to be gained from me, let me go on my way in peace.' 
               "'Not so,' he replied in a tone that controlled me in spite of my bitter feelings toward him. 'Come with me to yonder public house, and while you rest your wearied limbs, I will show you that it rests with yourself to regain the fortune you have lost.' 
               "I followed him mechanically, unable to believe in the reality of his assertion. I was willing, however, to hear what he had to say, and together we entered a private room in a neighboring hotel. Munroe, then to my amazement, proposed to restore to me the whole of my fortune on the condition that I should marry his only sister before another month rolled away. 
               "Amazed at the singularity of his course, I naturally asked if the young girl were hideous, or defective in mind? 
               "'Neither,' he replied. 'On the contrary, she is a refined, elegant looking creature, though not strictly beautiful, and gifted with a fair portion of intellect.' 
               "'Then why,' I demanded, 'this precipitation in bestowing her upon a man she has never seen?' 
               "'Pardon me-she has seen you more than once when she was quite a little girl,' he said. 'The impression then made was, I know, a favorable one. While on a visit to Mrs. Emmerson, four years since, you may remember assisting a young girl to understand a difficult French lesson. That child was my sister, Ida Munroe.' 
               "A vague recollection of the girl referred to, came back to me, but I could not yet understand the anxiety manifested by Munroe to obtain a husband for his sister. In reply to my inquiries, he explained his reasons. He and Ida were alone in the world, and by his extravagance he had squandered the small independence they inherited. Just as he discovered their utter ruin, and was looking around for some means of gaining a support for his young sister and himself, he unfortunately became entangled in an affair of honor, which he had a firm conviction would end fatally to himself. 
               "With this belief, he demanded of the opposite party two months, in which to settle his worldly affairs. The helpless condition of his orphan sister weighed on his mind, and he resorted to the gaming table, with the hope that the use to which he would put his gains in providing for her, would take the reproach from the means by which they were acquired. 
               "I became the victim of his superior skill, and then the idea of gaining a protector for Ida, and at the same time saving me from ruin, occurred to him. He followed me, and gave me the alternative of marriage with a young girl I scarcely remembered, or destitution. I acquiesced with a degree of indifference which now moves my surprise, but at that time I was too reckless to care what became of me. To save myself from the grim giants, want and hardship, I would have accepted almost any terms that did not involve dishonor. 
               "I accompanied Munroe to the retreat in which his sister had been educated, and was introduced to a fair, delicate girl of sixteen, whom I felt it not impossible to love. She submitted to the wishes of her brother, and in three weeks we were married. I voluntarily pledged myself to Munroe never again to gamble, and the last act of his life was to restore to me the fortune I had lost. He fought, and lost his life as he had predicted. 
               "I was not long in discovering the treasure of sweetness, purity, and refinement I had so singularly become possessed of; I soon lived only in the presence of my Ida, and an affection as true and lasting as the children of earth may know, united us. Twelve years she was the angel of my life, and then her sister spirits claimed her as an inmate of heaven. Then the darkness of woe fell upon me, and I refused to be comforted. Taking advantage of my condition, a man I had loved and trusted, insisted that I was insane, and to get the management of my estate, thrust me into a mad-house. The two years I spent amid the shrieks and ravings of those unfortunates, is now remembered as a horrible nightmare. My lost Ida had been wont to visit me before I was there imprisoned, but amid them her pure spirit never ventured. The melancholy that preyed on me at this deprivation, was pronounced incurable, and to this I owe my escape from my merciless tormentors. 
               "But when I again stood in this room, which had witnessed many of our happiest hours, I felt that her spirit was around me. To-night is the third time she has appeared before me, but never before did she speak." 
               Reginald appeared deeply interested in his father's recital, and at its close he said: 
               "My dear father, tell no one else that you have seen and spoken with the shade of my mother, lest the world should again say that you are not, as other men are. I will take your history to heart, and endeavor to profit by its lesson; but, in the meantime, I must have the means to pay what I owe, and keep up my position among my set." 
               "The money is yours, Reginald, for it has been hoarded by me with a view to this very contingency. It may go lightly, but I warn you not to squander much more in this heedless manner. The lands I regained in so unusual a manner, I have taken care to settle in such a way that they can not be alienated. Therefore, I warn you not to encumber yourself with a burden of debt which a lifetime will only enable you to struggle through. I do not choose to play the tyrant, nor the dictator toward you. Your impulses are good; your talents I estimate highly, therefore I simply place the truth before you, and leave you to strike out for yourself that path which you believe will lead to happiness." 
               "Thank you, sir, I will endeavor not to abuse your confidence." 
               Mr. Clifford arose, and unclosed an old-fashioned escritoire which stood in a recess between two windows. He drew from a concealed drawer a small bag filled with gold, and placed it in the hands of his son. Reginald said: 
               "Living the lonely life you lead here, I think it is hazardous to keep money near you. Some night your life might be taken to secure the gold in that old receptacle." 
               "The reputation of the house sufficiently secures me; for those who see me flitting from window to window, often mistake me for the evil spirit of the place. Beside, living as I do, no one would suspect me of having money concealed on the premises." 
               "Still I do not think it safe; and moreover, sir, you lose the interest on the considerable sums you annually receive." 
               Mr. Clifford smiled. 
               "If they were thus invested, from what source would you supply your necessities, my son? Are you aware that your expenses for the two last years have far exceeded my income, ample as it is?" 
               The young man looked conscience-stricken; he said: 
               "And while I thus scatter your wealth to the winds, you here live the life of a hermit, with the fare of an anchorite. Come with me, father, I again entreat you, and share with me the luxurious splendor with which I have surrounded myself at your expense." 
               The recluse shook his head. 
               "The world and its ways are distasteful to me. I have chosen my own mode of life, and intend to abide by it. Why, what should I do now, amid the great Babel of life? I, the persecuted and down-trodden of other days, because of some harmless peculiarities which made me unlike other men. No, Reginald, my solitude, my dreams are more to me than all the unmeaning bustle of existence. This little room is my world, for it is filled with memories that come as sunbeams to my soul." 
               Clifford said no more. He knew that his father, a clear-minded man on all other subjects, was on this one a monomaniac. He believed firmly that the presence of his departed wife encircled him with an atmosphere of love, and although invisible, her spirit ever hovered around him. Twice, while in a state of morbid excitement, brought on by long watching, he had fancied her palpable to his sight, and as we have seen, it was useless to attempt to argue him out of this conviction. 
               Clifford bade his father good night, after promising to visit him again before many days had passed away, and left the house. His horse was fastened to a tree not far from the door, and mounting him, he rode rapidly away. Well was it for him that his steed was fleet, and sure of foot, for he had scarcely cleared the thick shadows cast by the unpruned trees, when a man started up from a cluster of underwood near the window, and with long leaps pursued him for more than a hundred yards, grasping as he ran a pistol, which he did not wish to fire until the sound would be too far distant to alarm the father. 
               Fortunately, the horse was a high-spirited creature, and noted for his speed; therefore, the rider was soon beyond the range of the deadly weapon. Foiled in his deadly intentions, the ruffian dropped the muzzle of the pistol, and, muttering, "The old one is left yet, and he will be worth plucking!" he retraced his steps, and was soon lost amid the shadows of the trees. 
               Until after the departure of his son, Mr. Clifford did not observe that the lower half of the wooden shutters, which closed on the inside, had remained open throughout the recent interview. 
               For a moment, a fear thrilled through him that the transfer of the money might have been witnessed from without; but he dismissed it immediately, as extremely impossible. He hastened to bolt the shutters securely, and soon after retired to his couch. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE girl who had played so singular a part went forth from the old mansion with a slow step and meditative air, and dreamily pursued her way over the long-neglected pathway, which was overgrown with weeds, and frequently rendered almost impassable by the interlacing boughs that arched above it. Twilight yet lingered upon the landscape, and, when she emerged from the shades of the neglected orchard, a clear view was obtained of a tall, well-proportioned figure, in which flexible grace and native dignity were conspicuous, in spite of her shabby dress. The face which belonged to this form was interesting, not alone for its beauty-though there was much of that-but for the expression of thought, premature suffering, and something very like acuteness, which characterized it. It was evident that the dreams of youth, the romantic fancies of girlhood, had found but little room in her heart. The hard realities of life had quenched them, if the germs had ever existed there; yet the large black eyes were soft and lustrous, though the latent sparkle of fire and power was also in their depths. The lips were thin, and brilliantly colored, and the slightly aquiline nose, with its flexible nostrils, gave a clue to the impatient yet self-controlled spirit of their possessor. Her complexion was of that soft, creamy white, so rarely seen in perfection, with scarcely a vestige of the rose upon her cheek, and in singular combination with this was hair of a bright chestnut-brown, of that peculiar hue which is "dark in the shade and light in the sun;" while the clearly-defined eyebrows and long lashes were many shades deeper in their color. 
               There was an air of cultivation about her, widely at variance with the rusty black dress and old crape shawl that draped her commanding form, evidently a relic of brighter days. As she slowly walked and pondered, the lips unconsciously moved, and the eyes brightened with some scheme which promised advantage to herself; for she was one who had been reared amid the most reckless profusion, to find herself, and all dear to her, plunged in the deepest poverty, at an age when the pleasures of life are most eagerly desired-when slights are most keenly felt. All these things had sunk into her heart-had rankled there-and verily they had produced their fruits. Not alone had poverty become her heritage, but disgrace had thrown its blight upon her name; for, when ruin came upon her father, the discovery was made that by fraud alone had the glittering fabric of prosperity been sustained. From the position of a wealthy merchant, Mr. Osborne sunk at once into the branded and dishonored bankrupt, who only escaped the utmost penalty of the law through the mercy of his creditors. 
               Excessive pride and strong will had early developed themselves in the breast of this young girl; and the training she had received at a fashionable boarding-school did not tend to repress her faults, or develop the better traits which might have lain beneath the surface. Her father's fall was to her a crushing blow, and for many days she was prostrated by it; but gradually arose over this great agony a sense of calmness, and a superiority to the fate the world was ready to thrust upon her 
               She could not remove the stain from her tarnished name, but she could regain the wealth which had been lost, provided she was not scrupulous as to the means employed. She lothed the mean and comfortless abode her parents now inhabited-her dainty habits recoiled from the wretched fare and coarse clothing which was now all they could command-and to regain the means of purchasing the material enjoyments of life, was her firm resolve. But let me do her justice. Not for herself alone did she desire this, but also for her' family, for, amid all her faults, one virtue shone conspicuously-and this was sincere and ardent love for those connected with her by the ties of blood. 
               A naturally acute intellect had been carefully cultivated, and Barbara Osborne felt within herself the capacity to win from the chilling world, which now so darkly frowned upon her, the means of gratifying her love of splendor and affluent ease. She possessed a vivid imagination, strongly tinctured by superstition; and stories of ghost-raisers, phantasms, etc., had, from early childhood, possessed a singular attraction for her. She eagerly read every thing of the kind, and pondered earnestly upon them; her strong nerves had never known fear, and, in the solitude of her own room, with the fading light of day around her, she had often asked to have the wonders of the spiritual world revealed to her. 
               The singular effects of magnetism were familiar to her, and had often been used by her to bend others to her will, even in her school days. The first experiment had been made, after witnessing the effect produced by a celebrated lecturer on the science, more in the spirit of girlish frolic than with any belief that she should succeed. The effect produced astonished, and, at first, awed her; but this feeling soon changed to a triumphant sense of a power as mysterious as it was irresistible. The steady glance of that full black eye, and a few magical motions of her hand, seemed to crush opposition to the dust. 
               Before the downfall of Mr. Osborne, he had resided in the city of Alexandria; but he could not bear to remain in the place which had witnessed his disgrace, and he removed, with his family, to the country, carrying with him such fragments of their former fortunes as they had been able to save from the general wreck. The reproach of his conduct followed him, and no one would give employment to him; the slender resources of the hapless family were soon exhausted, and the day came when his rent could no longer be paid; the inexorable landlord refused to permit him to remain longer, and seized upon the few articles of furniture that were of any value. 
               The destitute family went forth to seek a home, and found one in the forsaken and dilapidated "quarter" of the Clifford plantation. The ruined man had accidentally passed by this spot, and, finding the overseer's house in a tolerable state of preservation, he resolved to take possession of it. It was not without a twinge of remorse that Mr. Osborne felt himself, as by some fatality, compelled to become the debtor of Clifford for a shelter for his helpless family; for to his cupidity and misrepresentations, the bereaved husband owed his incarceration in the madman's home. No other shelter was to be obtained, and Osborne flattered himself that the extreme seclusion in which the owner lived would prevent him from becoming aware of the vicinity of his family. 
               With the few household goods left him, he wended his way thither, followed by his wife-a pale, unhappy-looking woman, evidently in very bad health-his daughter, a son some two years her senior, and a young lad of eight. The broken windows were repaired with paper pasted over the shattered glass; the fragments of an old carpet, once brilliant from the looms of Brussels, but now faded and worn, partially covered the floor, and the few articles of furniture left them were disposed around the room. 
               What a contrast was this wretched abode to the palace-like halls in which their former days had been spent! where marble, gilding, and painting, had vied with each other in adding beauty to the home of the reputed millionaire. 
               A man sits beside the nearly fireless hearth, with his face buried in his hands, and his whole form expressive of the most abject and cowering despair. He was scarcely past middle age, but his hair was white as if the snows of seventy winters had blanched it, and his once large and florid person had dwindled away until his clothing hung in loose folds upon his frame. 
               His wife-suffering from an attack of violent nervous headache-lay upon the miserable bed, looking more like a pale spectre than a living woman; while a lad, on whose young features was reflected the grief of his parents, sat on a broken chair beside her, and held her cold hand clasped in both his own. 
               The silence was broken by a heavy footstep, and immediately there entered a young man of about two and twenty years of age, dressed in the coarse garb of a day-laborer. His features were handsome, but darkened by an expression of moroseness amounting almost to ferocity. He dashed a few silver coins on the bed, beside his mother, and, regardless of her pallid looks and imploring manner, said: 
               "Here is the amount of my day's labor. Use it carefully, for I swear it shall be the last earned by me in such degrading toil. Here are my hands blistered with helping that horrid old barbarian to load his wagons." 
               At the mention of money, the haggard face of the gray-haired man was suddenly raised, and stretching forth his hand, eagerly, he said: 
               "Give me one coin. I must have one to purchase the means of stilling this gnawing pain that tears my heart-strings." 
               The pale hand of the wife closed on the pittance, and she pleadingly said: 
               "No more opium, my husband, I entreat you. Buy no more; it robs us of food-it destroys you." 
               "The sooner the better," was the savage response. "I tell you I will have it. Did I not keep you all in plenty-ay, in splendor-for years, at the expense of my very heart's blood? And now you grudge me a pitiful sum to buy the only thing that gives me courage to live. Give it to me, I say-I must have it." 
               "Father," said the young man, sullenly, "I labored for this money, that we might eat-not to minister to your selfish gratification." 
               The father glared on him with an ominous and threatening aspect. He hoarsely asked: 
               "Who ministered to your extravagance for years? Who paid your bills to the last penny, that the dishonor of the father should not also blast the good name of the son? Shameless boy! to deny me now a few pence from your miserable earnings." 
               "They are for my mother," replied the sulky youth. "Only for her would I have degraded myself by laboring like a common hind." 
               "Degraded yourself! ha! ha! I did not believe that one of my household could sink themselves lower by any means, much less by honest labor. Does your dainty breeding shrink from hard-handed toil, boy? Go, then, into the city, amid the men who are scarce a shade better than I am, though more successful in concealing their villany, and demand such employment as suits your breeding. Tell them you are the son of Osborne, the swindler, and see what their answer will be. The men who ate at my board-drank of my cup-borrowed my money-used my credit-would see you starve before they would extend a finger to assist you. The brand is on you all, and yet you refuse me the means of forgetting who it was that stamped it there. I tell you I will not live, unless I stupefy myself to the point of forgetfulness." 
               His voice gradually arose to a hoarse roar, his eyes grew red, and his white hair seemed to vibrate with the passion that shook his frame. 
               Appalled by his fury, his wife held the money toward him, while the young man frowned, stamped, and clenched his hands, as if ready to battle with the world for its injustice, in condemning him for the fault of another. Osborne grasped the largest coin among those held toward him by the attenuated hand of his wife, and, taking down a rusty hat, went out in the darkening twilight, and walked rapidly toward a neighboring village, which lay about a mile from their present home. 
               "Where is Barbara?" asked the young man, so soon as the sound of the retreating footsteps had died away. 
               "She has nursed me all day," replied Mrs. Osborne, "and I sent her out to walk. She has been gone some time, and I expect her back every moment." 
               "I wish she would come and prepare my supper, for I am famishing." 
               "My son, why did you not eat at farmer H.'s? You would there, at least, have obtained a comfortable supper. Poor Barbara's cooking has little to recommend it, for she has not yet had sufficient experience to attain much skill; and then our materials are very poor." 
               "Mother, you will think me absurdly proud, but I could not bear to sit at the table with those rude farm-laborers-I who have been so delicately, so fastidiously reared." 
               "My son-my son-many of those men, though rough in appearance, would probably have shamed you by the simple probity of their lives. We surely have fallen too low to scorn the meanest of God's creatures." 
               "My training has shown me only the refinements of life, and I can not suddenly learn to tolerate its asperities. I know that the difference in the positions of men is made by education and money. The first I possess-the last I must have, that I may go far away from the contempt, the humiliation, that follows me here. I shall become desperate, if my present life continues much longer." 
               At these words, his mother wept bitterly. 
               "If you abandon us, Edward, who will take care of your sister and myself? of this helpless child by my side? You know well that your father is rapidly becoming imbecile beneath the constant influence of distress of mind, and the deadly drug he yearns incessantly after." 
               The young man remained plunged in gloomy thought for some moments. He then abruptly said: 
               "Yet it must be so, mother. I can do nothing for you here. I will gain money, and go to some new country to prepare a home for you. When I am settled, I will send for you all to come to me." 
               "But how is the money to be first acquired, Edward? You are too young, and too ignorant of life, to understand all the difficulties in the way to success in what you propose." 
               "I will make a path for myself," he fiercely replied. "To leave this horrible poverty. stricken den, I am resolved; nor do I much care how I obtain the means. I can not well fall lower than I am, let me act as I will." 
               "O, Edward! Edward! must I listen to such words from you, who are now my sole dependence?" murmured the wretched mother. "Is it not enough that I bear scorn and sorrow for your father's sake? but must you, also, threaten to act without regard to principle? O, hapless woman that I am!" 
               "What principles have you ever endeavored to instill into my mind, madam, that you should reproach me thus?" asked Osborne, savagely. "To see me an exquisite in dress, manner, and language, was your highest ambition for me. No code but fashionable expediency have I ever seen rule your actions, and yet you expect me to act as if the strictest integrity had been instilled into me from my birth. I am what you have made me, and I would sooner risk death by the hands of the hangman than remain here a month longer." 
               The wretched mother made no reply to these brutal taunts; she clasped her hands over her pallid face, and wept; while the child, though scarcely comprehending the scene, shed tears with her. 
               Until the reverses in his father's fortunes, Edward Osborne had lived in an extravagant, self-indulgent manner. He had been sent to a college of high standing, where he was the ringleader in all mischief, and the torment of the professors. From this institution 
                   
                  
                   tution he was finally dismissed as incorrigible, and, at eighteen, had commenced the life of a fast young man. His parents, proud of his fine person and dashing manner, allowed him unlimited command of money, until the ruin of his father came as a thunder-stroke to him. 
               What better fruit could be expected from such training? Too late the hapless mother felt the results of her own criminal neglect of the charge committed to her. 
             
             
               CHAPER IV. 
               IT was quite dark when Barbara came in The lagging footsteps had a spring in it as she ascended the creaking steps, which seemed to indicate new hope, and her mother half arose to greet her. Edward had replenished the fire, and the ruddy glare fell on her fair face as she removed her hood and shawl. Its expression was almost cheerful, and Mrs. Osborne said: 
               "Your walk has been of service to you, my child. Your smile is almost as pleasant as before our misfortunes." 
               "Because I have a bright thought, mother, which may be the herald of good fortune to us." 
               Edward turned his gloomy face toward her and said: 
               "It is not thinking, but acting that is to benefit us, Barbara. I have thought until my brain is nearly turned, and I can see no light amid the darkness that environs us." 
               "'The darkest hour of the night is just before the dawn,' says the adage," replied Barbara, cheerfully. "I have a plan, but never mind it now; let us get some supper, and close the tired eyes of poor Harry in sleep before I develop it. Where is my father?" 
               "He has gone on his usual errand," said the mother, sadly. 
               Barbara went to the door and looked out on the darkening pathway. She said: 
               "I trust he will not tarry until a late hour, for the night threatens to be stormy before many hours have passed away, and he is scarcely competent to take care of himself." 
               She turned away, and busied herself in preparing supper. Edward had put the kettle on the fire before her arrival, and she soon made tea, if the wretched compound sold as such in the village grocery deserved the name. A few cold potatoes, and a fragment of meat, composed the repast of those who, a few brief months since, would have deemed it impossible to sustain life on such fare. 
               Barbara's persuasions induced her mother to swallow a small portion of the tea, but her delicate appetite rejected the unpalatable food; and the determination ripening in the mind of the daughter, was confirmed by the suffering depicted on the pale features of her mother. 
               "Edward," she said, "you earned money to-day. Take it, go to --- and buy fresh bread, and some wine, that I may prepare such nourishment for mother as she can swallow." 
               "And what will buy food for us all tomorrow, if this pittance is thus spent? You told me this morning that the potatoes are nearly out, and the meal quite gone." 
               "Never mind to-morrow; let it take care of itself. Mother needs something now, and she must have it." 
               "But first tell me what scheme you have in your head, that I may judge of its feasibility." 
               Barbara looked mysterious. 
               "Suppose I should tell you that it is to play the ghost to a poor, half-crazed old man." 
               "Pray be serious, Barbara. This is no time for childish nonsense." 
               "I never was half so serious in my life, I assure you. But first let me give you the history of my walk this evening. The appearance of the desolate old manor that rises above the trees, attracted me, and I concluded to visit it. I had no idea that it was inhabited, and after forcing my way through the weeds, I reached a door which, with a few efforts, opened before me, and I entered the old house. It was interesting to me to wander through the deserted rooms, and I was speculating on the possibility of removing thither before the cold winter months set in, when it occurred to me that perhaps some others had already availed themselves of its shelter. There was sufficient daylight left by which to visit every portion of the old ruin, and I wandered from room to room, finding all alike desolate and empty. At length, I reached a long corridor leading to the last wing, and as I drew near the door which opened into it, I heard a voice speaking quite loud, accompanied by the rapid steps of a person walking under strong excitement. The door was not perfectly closed; I drew near, and looked through an crevice; by the light that fell through the open window, I saw a tall man gesticulating, and talking to some invisible being. 
               "I listened, and gathered the sense of his ravings; and, like a flash of light, the thought came to me that I might benefit our fortunes by personating the deceased wife he invoked. I remembered hearing that the owner of this property is an eccentric man, who, at one time, had been in a state of derangement on account of the loss of his wife. Suffice it, that I did personate the deceased Mrs. Clifford." 
               At the name, Mrs. Osborne started, and half arose, but she subdued her agitation, and sunk back, looking even paler than before. Barbara continued: 
               "In the fading twilight, and with the previous exaltation of his mind, it was easy of accomplishment." 
               "But I can not see of what use this can be to us," said Edward, impatiently. 
               "I will show you. Mr. Clifford is rich and benevolent. I will see him again as his lost Ida; point out to him the suffering almost at his door, and urge him to relieve it. Once known to him in my own character, leave me to wind my spells around this lonely man. This is but the beginning, however, for I intend to become a spiritual rapper, and that old castle shall be the scene of my exploits." 
               "A spiritual rapper!" exclaimed Osborne, incredulously. 
               "Pray, how have you ascertained that you are a medium? And how do you know that it is not all a humbug?" 
               "It is then a most extraordinary one, for I have seen and conversed with several, and they have uniformly declared that they are entirely ignorant of the source of their own power." 
               "But what necessity will there be for taking such a character on yourself, if you can cozen this old man out of a portion of his fortune by personating his deceased wife?" 
               "All his wealth, to my dreams of splendor, would seem but a pittance. No; if I stoop to defraud this old man, I must have other victims to pay me adequately for the degradation I must undergo. The whole system of society seems to me a stupendous fraud, and why shall I not take my share of the spoils? At all events, I am determined to make a desperate struggle for them." 
               "I say bravo, if you can succeed; but unless you are really a medium, I don't see how you are to manage it." 
               "I am an excellent ventriloquist, as you have long known, which, perhaps, is quite as well. Besides, I believe that Harry is the medium in our household, for the rappers say that there is one in every family. With tact and management, I see the way open before me to fortune again." 
               "Well, may Heaven speed you; and now I must go on my errand." 
               Harry had been asleep some time before this conversation took place, and after the departure of her brother, Barbara approached the bedside and attentively regarded him. He was a delicate, spiritual-looking child, with large clear eyes, and flaxen hair that hung in natural curls over a beautiful brow. Barbara loved him with a peculiar affection, and as she now took his small hand in her's, she muttered: 
               "If ministering spirits are around us, my precious darling, yours is the only intelligence in our blighted household innocent enough to hold intercourse with them. Ah if I thought it would injure you, or prematurely sadden your young life, my own darling, I would bear hunger, and cold, and misery, before I would subject you to such an ordeal." 
               The boy half unclosed his eyes as she bent over him, and murmuring a few words of affectionate endearment to his beloved sister he again slumbered. The young girl took him in her arms, and carefully preparing him for bed, carried him into the adjoining apartment, and placed him on her own lowly couch. Then returning, she threw on more wood, and made a cheerful blaze. The extreme treme quietness of her mother at length struck Barbara as singular, and she remembered that she had taken no part in the recent conversation between herself and her brother. She quickly approached the bed, and found Mrs. Osborne nearly insensible from the exhaustion of extreme suffering, and want of nourishment. She used every means to revive her, known to her inexperience, and soon they were partially successful; but she was evidently extremely ill, and the forlorn girl awaited the return of her brother in an agony of impatience it is impossible to depict. 
               In the meantime, Edward Osborne pursued his way toward the village at which he expected to obtain the articles he desired to purchase. The manor house lay in his path, and by making a slight detour, he could pass close beside the east wing, which he was now aware was occupied by Mr. Clifford. He seemed to be drawn toward it by some mysterious and irresistible attraction, the source of which he would hardly have been able to analyze. 
               The night was sharp and chilly, and there was a premonition of rain in the damp air. Its cool breath was grateful to the solitary youth, as he strode rapidly over the broken ground, which had once been a cornfield, but for many years had been permitted to grow up in grass and stunted blackberry bushes. The young moon was shining faintly through a haze of clouds, which were momentarily trooping over the heavens in denser and darker array, threatening a heavy storm before the witching hour of night should arrive. 
               Gloomy and restless as the clouds above him, were the thoughts that careered through the undisciplined soul of the unhappy young man. To possess whatever his most capricious fancy might desire-to enjoy all the world offers to its votaries, had, until of late, been the history of his life; and he had but now left his mother fainting, nearly dying for want of the necessaries of life. Osborne was an undutiful son; he could use harsh words to his parents, but he was not without affection for them, and he was willing to do any thing but labor for them. He had not been bred to it, and he had irrevocably made up his mind that by his wits he would live, or not at all. This, with him, simply meant, "stand and deliver" to the first man he met who possessed the money he so much neded. 
               As he drew near the old house, a gleam of red light from the fire in Mr. Clifford's room streamed through the unclosed shutter, and he paused and peered within. Unfortunately, it was at the moment Mr. Clifford drew from the escrutoire the bag of gold which he handed to his son. Osborne closed his teeth, and his breath came hard and hissingly through them as he muttered: 
               "It shall go hard with me, but I will have that gold, Reginald Clifford," for the person of the younger gentleman was not unknown to him. "To me and mine it will bring life, hope, and perhaps future prosperity, while you will squander it without giving a thought to its destination." 
               Something whispered him to ask assistance, and it would not be refused; but pride prevented him from assuming the attitude of a beggar. 
               "Better act the part of the highwayman," he scornfully thought, "than ask charity of any man who breathes." 
               He felt in his bosom for a pistol he always carried there, and as Reginald arose to bid his father good night, Edward Osborne placed himself behind the shelter of a group of bushes until he had mounted his horse. He was the baffled pursuer, and by the intervention of Providence alone, he did not return to his destitute family branded with the double crime of murder and robbery. 
               Foiled in his attempt, he moodily pursued his way to the place of his destination, revolving in his dark mind the most feasible plan for getting possession of the treasure he fancied concealed in the escrutoire. All the money he owned in the world did not amount to a dollar, and the greater portion of that must go to supply the pressing necessities of his mother. He remembered, with a sudden emotion of joy, that a ring hung suspended from his neck; it was a plain golden circlet, given to him in his boyhood by a fairy girl he had loved as sincerely as such natures are capable of loving. Hitherto he had shrunk from parting from it, but now he no longer hesitated; a wide gulf already severed them, and he could scarcely render it more impassable by any act he might now commit. Yet 
                  her ring should purchase food for his mother; its errand should be a hallowed one; he would not reflect that by its sacrifice he retained the means of preparing himself for the crime which was dimly shadowed forth in his own mind. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               OSBORNE found the small shop at which they were in the habit of dealing, still open, and the master, a ruddy, good-humored looking man, came forward to wait on him. He laid the ring upon the counter, and with a deep flush on his dark cheek, said: 
               "My mother is in nearly a dying condition, Mr. Thompson, and I have brought the last valuable I possess to offer in exchange for wine and bread for her. Will you take it in place of money?" 
               The dealer took the massive circlet of gold and weighed it in his hand. After a pause, he said: 
               "It is not in my way to do such things, Mr. Osborne, but if your mother is as bad as you say, one must not be hard-hearted. What value do you put on this article of vanity, now?" 
               "My valuation and yours would be very different, I expect. The weight of the gold is all you will consider; ascertain that, and we can come to terms." 
               The grocer looked around at his heavy scales with their leaden weights, and with a half smile, said: 
               "Such gimcracks as this must have a nicer balance to weigh them in, than sugar and coffee require; but I am not particular about it; my daughter Sally has been wanting a ring for a long time, and this will suit her as well as any other. I am willing to give you a bottle of wine and a loaf of bread for it." 
               The idea of Sally Thompson coming into possession of this ring, was more than the philosophy of Osborne could bear. He stretched forth his hand to reclaim it, but a sudden thought struck him. 
               "Mr. Thompson, I merely wish you to hold the ring as a pledge of payment for the articles I require. If I do not redeem it in a week, it may pass into the possession of your daughter." 
               "O, very well; money is money, and I would rather have it than a piece of useless finery. What kind o' wine, young man? Port, I suppose, for a sick person." 
               "Certainly-and also a few candles." 
               With a feeling of secret triumph, young Osborne took the parcels and left the shop. He passed with rapid steps to the apothecaries, which was a few doors below. There he purchased a box of matches, a bottle of chloroform, and a piece of sponge. As he was about to leave the house, the young man who waited on him, said: 
               "The old gentleman was in here, a while ago, and he seems to me to be in a queer way. You had better look after him, as you go back, and take him along with you." 
               Osborne nodded, and replied: 
               "I shall find him as I go back. Worthless goods are not easily lost." 
               The clerk looked shocked at this speech, but he made no reply to him who had so recklessly uttered it. Osborne cared not for his judgment, for he was in that state of mind in which ordinary occurrences make no impression. He hurried back to the desolate house, scarcely noting objects as he passed them, with his head bent down, and the consciousness of meditated crime darkening over his spirit. 
               The wind had risen, and blew in fitful gusts; the occasional glimpses of the moon, which the drifting clouds permitted, only served to reveal the entire solitude of the path over which he rushed with headlong speed. His mind was so intensely occupied, that he did not once think of his father; and, even if he had done so, he would have taken it for granted that he was safely sheltered beneath their humble roof. 
               As he drew near the door of the cottage, it suddenly opened, and he recognized the figure of Barbara, who, with her hand raised to shelter her eyes from the light within, peered eagerly into the darkness. An exclamation of joy escaped her, as she heard his step-she exclaimed: 
               "At last, you have returned, Edward! O I have suffered so terribly since you left. You have the things? Be quick-bring them, in-for mother is in a very exhausted condition." 
               Osborne ascended the steps, and entered the room. His mother lay, white and motionless, upon the bed, with her eyes half closed-but she was quite sensible. As he drew near, she feebly said: 
               "Where is your father?" 
               "Is he not here? I have not seen him. He left -- some time before I reached there." 
               "Go, then, and seek him, for he is feeble and will perish in the storm I hear uttering its first wails around the house. Hasten, my son, for no time is to be lost." 
               With a thrill of joy, Osborne heard this command, for it furnished the excuse, he so much desired, for leaving the house again. A few more moments, and he was running swiftly toward the haunted house, with the intention of seeking his father as he returned from his criminal enterprise. 
               By this time, the rain had commenced falling, and it was blown in sharp dashes upon his face. The inclemency of the weather only added strength to the purpose which filled his mind. Upon the outlaw of social life, even the elements must do their worst, he bitterly thought; but he would soon possess the means of purchasing shelter, by relieving an old man of the superfluous wealth he had no need of. Then, perchance, the world would turn a kinder face toward him, for it mattered not, to that great public, how the money was obtained, provided it was liberally dispensed, and a decent vail thrown over the means by which it had been grasped. 
               Such were the thoughts that filled his mind as he laid his hand on the lock of the door through which Barbara had obtained ingress. It readily unclosed, and, when safe within the house, he drew forth his matches with one of the candles he had purchased. 
               A faint but steady light soon revealed to him the proportions of a small vestibule, from which there were several outlets. Choosing what appeared to be the main one, he found himself in a wide passage, in some places obstructed by fallen plaster, but he had no difficulty in finding his way to the room occupied by the lonely and helpless old man. 
               As he cautiously drew near it, a faint gleam of light beneath the door showed that the fire still burned in the grate. He peered through the keyhole, and saw that the arm chair was vacant; then, listening attentively, he heard the deep and regular breathing of a heavy sleeper. 
               Softly turning the bolt, to his great joy the door yielded to his touch, and swung open sufficiently to permit him to reconnoiter the room. In the excitement of his interview with the supposed shade of his wife, Mr. Clifford had apparently forgotten his usual precautions, and he now lay at the mercy of the intruder. 
               Gaining courage as he looked, Osborne entered the room, and stood beside the bed, taking care to screen the light he carried in such a manner as to prevent its glare from falling upon the face of the sleeper. Mr. Clifford's white hair streamed over the pillow, and his wan features looked yet more emaciated, as he lay buried in a deep and tranquil slumber; unconscious of the guilty purposes-the bitter passions surging so wildly above him. 
               "How easily I could kill him as he sleeps!' was the thought of the young desperado, and, for a moment, he was strangely tempted to commit the crime. This feeling, however, rapidly passed away, and, carefully depositing his candle in a half boot which stood conveniently by the bedside, he drew forth his chloroform, saturated the sponge with it, and held it over the lips of the sleeping man. 
               There were several deep inspirations, and the hand was suddenly thrown up, but it dropped as if paralyzed, and Mr. Clifford lay calm and motionless as the dead. Carefully placing the sponge upon the pillow, so near his face that, with every breath, he must inhale a portion of the gas, Osborne proceeded at once to work. 
               The clothes of the old gentleman were lying across the back of a chair, and in the vest pocket he found the key of the escrutoire. Unlocking this, with a steadiness worthy of an old hand at such business, he proceeded to investigate the interior. A roll of bank notes rewarded his search, amounting to several hundred dollars; but he could not, with all his efforts, discover the secret spring which, he felt convinced, concealed the depository of a larger amount of treasure. 
               In his search, he unclosed a drawer, in which only a square leathern case rested. Hastily tearing this open, an exquisitely-finished painting, of cabinet size, was revealed to him. It was the picture of a young and fair woman, between whom and his sister he at once recognized a singular resemblance. 
               "No wonder the old gent took Bab for her ghost," thought he; "for the features are like enough, though the expression is confoundedly different. The owner of this dreaming face never had the hard realities of my sister's life to struggle with." 
               He thrust it back, and, finding further search unavailing, he seized a bundle of papers, which, from a cursory glance, he found to be valuable, and closed his quest. Re-locking the cabinet, he returned the keys to the pocket from which he had taken them, and replaced the clothes exactly as they had lain on his entrance. He then removed the sponge from the pillow, and quickly retired, carrying his spoils in safety. 
               By the time Osborne reached the door, which opened on the yard, the storm had reached its highest point of violence. A gust of wind blew out the candle he carried, and all his efforts were unavailing to close the door; leaving the old pile behind, he scrambled through the underwood, holding his hat upon his head to prevent the wind from blowing it away, and, with much difficulty, finding his way in the darkness. He at length reached the open fields, and, congratulating himself on his clever management, and his complete success in his first attempt at robbery, he slipped and stumbled over the muddy pathway leading to the hovel occupied by his parents. 
               Osborne came, at last, within sight of the faint light that trembled from the cottage-window, and paused to ascertain if his booty was in safety. Satisfied as to this, he stepped quickly forward, and, striking his foot against some object in the pathway, he fell across what seemed to be the body of a man, for a cold hand came in contact with his face. 
               His hair bristled, and his teeth chattered, as the conviction flashed upon his mind that, while he had been so terribly employed, his father had perished in the storm, for want of assistance. He raised himself upon his knee, passed his shaking hand over the form, and found that he had fallen with his face in a pool of water. 
               Exerting all his strength, Osborne turned him over, just as the clouds partially broke away, and a faint gleam of moonlight fell upon the white and rigid features. It was, indeed, his father, who had perished within sight of his own door, in the darkness of night, with the pitiless floodgates of Heaven pouring their torrents upon him. Returning home, stupefied with the quantity of opium he had taken, together with the additional stimulus of a glass of spirits, Mr. Osborne must have fallen on his face, and been suffocated before he could extricate himself. 
               Hard as he was, the young man was horror-struck. If he had sought him when his mother requested him to do so, this calamity would not have happened. While he was committing that which, if known, would render him an outcast from society, an outlaw against the institutions of all civilized lands, and a violator of the commands of God, his father was perishing for want of aid. Then the distress of those so suddenly and terribly bereaved arose before him, and he trembled at the thought of confronting them, with this tale of horror on his lips. 
               While these thoughts passed through his mind, the rain slightly slackened, and the violence of the storm sensibly abated. Again the door of the cottage was thrown open, and Barbara stood before him in an attitude of intense solicitude, as if endeavoring to penetrate the darkness which stretched before her, and vailed every object. Presently, her voice arose, with an imploring accent, calling on his name. 
               Osborne arose, replied to her, and staggered toward the door; as he entered, pale, dripping with the rain, which saturated his garments, with staring eyes, and faltering steps, Barbara grasped his arm, and inquired, in a tremulous whisper: 
               "Where, where is our father? Have you found him?" 
               "I have; but he is past coming in without help," he replied, in the same low tone. 
               "Mother sleeps, at last," said Barbara. "I persuaded her to go in my room, and lie down with Harry, while I watched for your return. Why did you leave my father in the rain? Let us bring him in. He must need the warmth of the fire sadly." 
               Barbara drew near the door, and her brother followed her on the creaking steps. There, grasping her hand, he said: 
               "Barbara, I have seen you tried before now, and your courage did not fail. Summon it all now, girl, for you have a severe shock to meet." 
               "What is it?" she asked, with pale lips; but her voice did not falter. "Has our father committed suicide? I have often feared it." 
               "No, not so bad as that; but he has died, like a dog, by the roadside, with no human being near him." 
               "And you-where were you, who went forth to seek him?" she asked, repressing the strong emotion that shook her frame, lest a loud word or cry should reach her mother, and arouse her fears. 
               "I-I-what could I do in the darkness, and the storm?" asked the conscience-stricken youth. "I found him, at last, close beside the door here." 
               "Let us go to him." 
               Edward led the way, and the young girl followed him. Her eyes became accustomed to the gloom by the time she reached the body, and she beheld it lying there in the silence, the darkness, and the storm. 
               Then the pent-up suffering of that night burst forth, and a wail of sorrow arose over the stark form of him who had, indeed, sinned greatly, but whose punishment had also been fearful. When this first burst was over, Barbara exerted the wonderful self-control she possessed, and, turning to her brother, she said: 
               "We must take him in. The clouds are gathering again, and the rain will soon fall with renewed violence. I will help you, Edward; let us remove him." 
               "We can not, without assistance," he gloomily replied. 
               "We can try, my brother. I am stronger than you think; let us make the effort-we can but fail, at the worst." 
               Thus urged, Osborne lifted the lifeless head, and placed it upon his breast; Barbara assisted him bravely; and, by almost superhuman exertions, they succeeded in reaching the house, and placing the corpse upon the bed. The noise they unavoidably made awoke Mrs. Osborne, and she called from the inner room to inquire if her husband had returned. Steadying her voice, Barbara went in, and replied to her inquiries in such a manner as to satisfy her, and her mother again slept. 
               The brother and sister passed the remainder of the night beside the lifeless body of their father. Overcome with fatigue, Edward's head soon dropped upon the bedside, and he slept heavily; but Barbara's wild eyes never closed. At moments, she grasped her throat to stifle the hysteric cries that arose to her lips, and threatened to burst forth, in spite of all her efforts to control them; for she had borne so much, within the few past hours, that it seemed almost impossible to forbear giving some outward demonstration of the anguish that wrung her heart. 
               She struggled with the heroism of a martyr, for those she loved, with the wild passion of the tigress for her young, slept within the sound of her voice, and she would not wake them from the slumbers they so much needed. 
               That lonely night-watch accomplished more toward hardening the soul of the lonely watcher than all the bitter struggles, the debasing hardships, that had gone before. She parted the gray hair from the brow of her father, and wiped the night-rain from his furrowed features with reverent tenderness, while she recalled him to her mind as she had seen him in the days of his prosperity, as the center of a brilliant circle-the oracle of his own particular set-and now he was dead, forsaken of all his summer friends, and without even the means of purchasing a decent coffin in which to lay him in his mother earth! The only watcher beside his corse, the daughter who had been reared in the very hotbed of luxury, to fall into an abyss of poverty and shame, from which she felt that her own energies alone would rescue her. 
               The reflections of that awful night only tended to give consistency to her previous plans. Her subtle spirit, her quick wit, pointed out to her the easiest path to affluence, and she was not one to falter in her determination to walk therein. 
               Her eye often glanced upon her sleeping brother, and, at times, an expression of contemptuous pity crossed her features, at the though that he could sleep amid such desolation as surrounded him. Then she remembered his day of toil, his journeys to the village, and she forgave him, as she parted the hair from his flushed features, and tenderly kissed him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE morning dawned clear and brilliant. The purified atmosphere seemed radiant with the glittering sunlight, and the birds, that had not already winged their flight to a more genial clime, sang gaily among the fading autumn leaves that still lent their varied garniture to the forest. 
               Sustained by the unnatural excitement which burned in her veins, Barbara seemed unconscious of fatigue. As the first ray of sunshine penetrated into the room, she arose, prepared toast and wine for her mother's breakfast, and then, arousing her brother from his heavy slumbers, she requested him to watch until she returned, as it was necessary for her to attend to some business abroad. 
               Osborne rubbed his eyes, and, after an effort, awoke his faculties to the comprehension of all that had recently befallen them. He found his sister equipped for going out, looking as pallid as a spirit, but with an expression of firmness around the compressed lips which spoke of unfaltering purpose. 
               "Remain within, Edward," she said; "and if my mother awakes before my return, carry what I have prepared for her breakfast to her: there is sufficient for both her and Harry. On no account do you permit either of them to suspect what has taken place. I must break it to them myself." 
               "I'm sure you're quite welcome to that er rand," replied the young man, with a degree of roughness he was sorry for the moment afterward, when he beheld the quivering lips and the struggle to repress the tears that rushed to her eyes. "Pardon me, Barbara; but these misfortunes, following so closely on each other, make me brutal," he more gently added. 
               "Edward, I do not believe you to be destitute of feeling, but you certainly have a singular way of showing it," she calmly replied; for she had again mastered the rush of emotions, and they sank back upon her heart, to harden it to her purpose. 
               "Watch over those helpless ones till I return; it will not be very long before you are released." 
               "But where are you going, Barbara?" 
               "To seek assistance in burying our dead," she quietly replied. 
               "But suppose it is not necessary to ask-" He paused suddenly, fearing that he might betray himself. 
               "It is necessary," was the brief response; and she passed from the house before he could utter any further remonstrance. 
               The ground was saturated with the heavy rain which had so lately fallen, and with some difficulty Barbara made her way over the path we have so often traveled within the past twelve hours. She reached the haunted house, and found the door open: this occasioned a momentary surprise, until she remembered the violence of the storm, and concluded that the wind had torn it from its rusty fastenings. 
               With light steps she threaded her way to the door of Mr. Clifford's apartment, and then paused to gather breath and courage for her attempt. She found the door ajar, and ventured to push it partly open. The old gentlemen still slept, and after a hasty glance around, Barbara threw her flexible voice close to the ear of the slumberer, and said, in a distinct, piercing tone- 
               "Awake-arise, Clifford! I, your lost Ida, summon you to the work of benevolence." 
               The old man stirred, put forth his arms as if to clasp the shadow he fancied near him, and muttered, 
               "I come-I come, angel spirit! Lead me away to the land of the blessed." 
               "It is not for that I have now sought thee, Clifford, though the blessed hour of reunion draws near. I would arouse you to the duties of life, O man of idleness and dreams." 
               "What would you have me do?" he asked, in the tone of a person still struggling with heavy drowsiness. 
               "Seek the cottages on your own neglected estate; in one of them are want, and death and sorrow. I entreat you to assist those unfortunates-to rescue them from destitution, as you cherish the memory of her who, even in the home of the blessed, is not forgetful of your welfare." 
               As these clearly, though softly breathed words entered the portals of his brain, Clifford gradually shook off the stupor which so heavily enchained his senses. He listened as one entranced, and an effulgent ray of happiness lit up his careworn features. 
               "I obey your madate, best beloved!" he exclaimed. "Yet speak once more: let me hear the sound of those heavenly tones once again." 
               "I will speak, to hurry you on your errand of mercy. Carry consolation to the bereaved and destitute, and the angels of Heaven shall tune their harps to a joyful strain in honor of the good deed accomplished by your means." 
               "I go, sweet spirit, angel minister of hope and mercy!" He sprang up in the bed, and Barbara softly closed the door through which her voice had gained admittance, and hurriedly sped toward the cottage. 
               When Mr. Clifford was thoroughly aroused from the deep sleep which had steeped his senses, he was surprised at the feeling of lassitude that oppressed his limbs, and the unusual sensation of fullness in his head. Flashes of light passed over his vision, and a faintness as of death nearly overcame him. On unclosing a window, and inhaling the exhilarating air of the morning, he was partially relieved, and by the time he had partaken of his frugal breakfast of crackers and a glass of water, he felt quite restored, and ready to seek the objects of benevolence toward whom he had been so singularly directed. 
               To doubt the reality of the vision, never once entered his mind; for he had firm faith in the truth of spiritual revelations, and he would have felt himself criminal if he had neglected the summons he believed he had received. 
               Several years had elapsed since he had wandered toward the spot to which he now slowly wended his way. The desolation of the place was painful to him, for he could remember it as a cheerful home of contented laborers, whose wants were cared for; whose wrongs were redressed by the owners of the sod. It had long since been suffered to fall to decay; the slaves that once tilled the soil had many of them left for a free State, when the kind master who had once protected their interests, was declared incompetent to manage his own property; others passed into the possession of strangers; and, on his recovery, the small number left had been freed by Mr. Clifford, and sent to Liberia; thus leaving a large and flourishing plantation a desert of weeds and wild bushes. 
               The recluse rarely left the house, and when he did, he carefully avoided the walk leading to the quarter; for with it were associated some of his dearest recollections, now become too painful to his morbidly sensitive mind, to be recalled without severe mental suffering. 
               With her arm linked in his own, his fair wife had so often flitted over that pathway, to carry the light of her sweet presence and soothing voice to some poor dependent; over it, she had frolicked with her cherub boy, in the bright summer evenings; and he recalled fragments of her conversation, when in a more pensive mood, that were associated indelibly with portions of the scene. Especially did he remember the last walk they had taken there, when the angel of death hung invisible over her, and threw a vague sadness over her spirit. Though in apparent health, she spoke of early death; of her sincere faith in the hopes of the Christian, and then playfully said, "When I leave you, dearest, you shall not be all desolate; the breath of the flowers I have tended, the sigh of the evening breeze, shall waft to you a blessing from your lost one. And, O! my husband, if God permits the spirits of the departed to hover around those they loved in life, often will I bend toward you, and whisper thoughts of consolation to your weary soul; for I know you will find no one to replace me. The tie that unites us is of too tender a nature to be renewed with another. Mine you are, and mine you will remain, until the hour comes in which angels shall smile and say, 'Faithful one, rejoin your lost Ida, and in a union that shall know no end, find the reward of your constancy.'" 
               Then those clear eyes, in which incipient fever already burned, were turned to his with an expression that haunted his memory, until he grew wild amid the desolation that so soon fell upon him. 
               There are some persons whose impressions are so vivid, that time fails to dim them; and of such was Mr. Clifford. As he walked the neglected pathway, though outwardly it was so changed, the dews of anguish stood in large drops upon his brow, and again he lived over that last scene, as vividly as if scarcely a day had passed since it was enacted. 
               O! divine power of memory! May it not be that when we thus recall the image of a departed friend clearly to the mind, that the spirit, by some electrical sympathy, is drawn toward us, even from the abodes of Paradise! 
               When Mr. Clifford came in sight of the group of ruined cottages, he paused to recover himself before appearing in the presence of the afflicted family he came to succor. The sounds of weeping guided him to the one occupied by Mrs. Osborne and her children, and he softly ascended the short flight of steps leading to the door. 
               It stood open, and revealed a scene which must have touched the coldest heart. The hapless father lay stretched upon the bed, deaf to the sobs which wrung the breast of his nearly lifeless wife, who was supported in the arms of her daughter; while the boy clung to his sister's dress and wept, half in sorrow, half in terror, for death was as yet an incomprehensible mystery to his soul. Edward Osborne sat in the farthest corner of the cheerless room, with his hat drawn over his lowering brow. 
               At a glance, the visitor took in the whole scene; but his eye was riveted by the pale face of Barbara, as she bent over her mother. He saw at once the resemblance which had struck her brother when looking on the picture of the deceased Mrs. Clifford; and Barbara, at this moment subdued by suffering and affliction, resembled his lost wife far more than with her ordinary self-reliant and rather haughty expression. For an instant this likeness seemed to him inexplicable, but a glance at the attenuated features of the mother appeared to throw a gleam of light upon his mind. Mr. Clifford evidently recognized them, changed as they were from the brilliant bloom of youth and health in which he had last beheld them. He approached the weeping widow, and taking her passive hand in his own, said- 
               "Mary Osborne, how is it that I find you thus? In misfortune, had I not a right to know that you suffered?" 
               Mrs. Osborne raised her eyes as if bewildered at this address; for, in the emaciated and worn person before her, she did not recognize the man she had last seen in the early flush of youth and happiness. She muttered- 
               "Why speak to me thus? Who are you, that would recognize the claims of the forsaken and outcast mother and children?" 
               "I was once the husband of your cousin Ida; I am now what you see-a wreck of my former self, but still not deaf to the call of mercy. Had I known, had I dreamed of the destitution every thing around me indicates, you should long since have been relieved." 
               "And would you-you, the injured, the persecuted, indeed have given to the widow and children of him who-" 
               She paused, overwhelmed by her emotion. Her visitor gently replied, as he waved his hand toward the bed with its ghastly burden- 
               "He is gone: let us think that he believed me incapable of managing my own affairs, when he wrested them from me. I have been commanded by a voice I never disregard, to assist those he left behind him, and it is that purpose which brings me hither." 
               Barbara listened to their words in surprise. She had never known the connection that existed between her family and that of Clifford; for his name had never been mentioned before her; but she rejoiced to find that she had other claims on her intended victim, beside those of compassion. When he turned to her, and taking her hand, said, "You are strangely like one I loved better that my own existence," a thrill of conscious power over this weak and still partially deranged man, filled her with exultation. 
               During this scene, Edward remained crouched in his corner, afraid to face the man he had so recently robbed, lest he might read the history of his crime in his blanching cheek and quailing eye; and it was not until his mother had finished giving a brief outline of their downfall, that he summoned courage to speak to their visitor. 
               Mr. Clifford regarded him benignantly, as he said, "You will accompany me to the village, Mr. Osborne, and there I will order such things as are necessary for the present. I will see what can be done toward providing the family a more suitable home in the future." 
               The arrangements for a respectable burial were soon made; for Mr. Clifford was well known in the village, although he appeared there at rare intervals. With his mind full of his new protegees, he returned to the Manor, and examined the deserted rooms with an interest they had not inspired for many years. 
               In the wing farthest from that occupied by himself, he found three apartments in tolerable preservation, which could be converted into a sitting and sleeping rooms for the destitute family; and, for the first time, it occurred to him that it was a shame to permit them to fall to decay, useless alike to their possessor and all others, when they could be converted into a refuge for the homeless at a trifling expense. 
               In truth, the face of Barbara haunted him; and to see her every day beneath his lonely roof, would be like grasping the pale shadow of his former happiness. With his mind full of these thoughts, Mr. Clifford tore himself from his beloved seclusion; employed workmen to repair the dilapidated rooms, and roamed through the old mansion, seeking the most available pieces of dust-covered furniture, wherewith to make them wear a habitable appearance. Even many things which had once been sacred to the use of his lost wife, he could bear to transfer to her who so strikingly resembled her. He wrote to an upholsterer in Alexandria to supply the deficiences, with such articles as were suited rather to the former station of his expected inmates, than their present condition. A respectable servant woman was also employed to arrange every thing in the neatest order for their reception; and within two weeks frum the death of Mr. Osborne, in the twilight of a bright autumn evening, the widow and her children came to take possession of the home they had gratefully accepted. 
               In this arrangement, however, Edward was not included. On the morning after his father's burial he had disappeared, no one knew whither, leaving his mother and sister to the care of the friend so singularly raised up for them. 
               Barbara entered the handsome rooms with the step of a queen coming into possession of her realm, and her eyes flashed brilliantly upon her old friend, while words of eager pleasure fell from her red lips. It was wonderful, indeed, how much had been accomplished in so short a time by a man so long buried to the world as Mr. Clifford had been. The interior of the house was thoroughly cleaned, and the apartments designed for his new inmates were comfortably carpeted and curtained, and provided with the means of enjoyment within doors, in the shape of music and books. 
               Barbara rejoiced to find an old-fashioned, but sweet-toned organ in their sitting room; for she was a brilliant musician, and extremely fond of the art. She opened a collection of music lying near it, and found a number of sacred melodies with the name of Mrs. Clifford inscribed on them. The old gentleman stood beside her as she examined them. He said: 
               "I placed these here that you may play them for me, Barbara. I can bear to hear your voice chanting her hymns of praise; for there is a tone in it that vibrates to my soul as her's once did." 
                
               "Thank you, dear sir; I will do my best to deserve all your kindness to me and mine," she replied, pressing his hand to her lips. 
               Mr. Clifford withdrew it with an air of embarrassment. He said: 
               "We will enter into a compact, my young friend, not to speak of obligations; for I assure you they are mutual. I have gained an interest in my solitary home, which I never expected it again to possess. I know not how it is, Barbara; but I can bear to think of abandoning my recluse habits and joining your little circle, without repugnance-nay, with actual pleasure. I, who for so many years have shunned the society of all, now actually seek yours. My dear girl, you have acquired a strange power over me." 
               "Be assured, dear sir, it shall only be used for your happiness," replied Barbara, with her most captivating smile. 
               Strange as it may seem, Mr. Clifford had not yet discovered the robbery which had been perpetrated. He rarely opened the escrutoire, and the young man had so exactly replaced every thing as he found them, that no suspicion had been excited in his mind. It was not until he needed money to pay the expenses recently incurred, that he ascertained that the funds he calculated on to disburse them had been abstracted. He was confounded at the discovery, but his suspicions never glanced toward the guilty one. Work people had been employed in the old house, and he came to the conclusion that among them the robber was to be found. 
               The loss, though considerable, was not to him irreparable; and as he did not wish it to be suspected that he kept money near him, he considered it best to bear it, without making an effort to recover the sum taken. The papers he did not miss for several weeks: when he did, their loss filled him with dis may; for they were the title deeds to nearly the whole of his landed estate. Then the latent imbecility of his mind came in play: uncertain how to act, to protect himself from further depredations, he concluded to conceal the loss from his son, and contrive a hiding place known only to himself. In this he placed a large sum of money, and other valuable records, with the intention of leaving a clue by which they could be discovered in case of his sudden demise. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               HAVING safely settled Barbara and her mother in the manor house, we must now follow the fortunes of Reginald Clifford. 
               With the fairest gifts of nature and fortune, this young man was in imminent danger of becoming a mere man of pleasure. Had adversity been his portion, already would he have surmounted the obstacles in his path; for he was ambitious, and acknowledged by his most lukewarm friends to possess powers which only needed development to give him a high position among the gifted of the land. But, alas! he was indolent. 
               "Why," he asked himself, "should I toil for an empty bubble, when all that other men seek is already mine? As the road to fortune, fame is to be sought, but I am one of the lucky ones on whom fortune smiled at my birth. I am not reduced to the necessity of courting the fickle goddess." 
               Thus he would soliloquize, after long self-communing, and the pleasant conclusion arrived at was acted on. Reginald was nominally a student with a distinguished lawyer, but much more frequently did he give his attention to the merits of the last new novel or poem than to those of his musty law-books. 
               Wearied of the life he had long led at hotels and boarding-houses, Clifford had taken an elegant cottage in a retired street, where he kept a recherche establishment; gave exquisite little dinners to his bachelor friends; drove a stylish cabriolet, with a small boy, dressed in livery, as his attendant; and, in short, was considered quite a gentleman of elegant leisure, with means at his command. 
               This would certainly be a pleasant state of affairs to most people; and, for a long time, it had been so to Reginald Clifford; but, of late-he could not tell how it was-but he was sated with mere pleasure. Society ceased to excite him; flattery, that once pleased, now disgusted him. He was beginning to feel that nature had designed him for something superior to the life of brilliant frivolity which once contented him; consequently, his soul was filled with discontent. 
                
               Wearied, disgusted with the vapid sameness of his life, he yet shrank from what alone could give him true happiness, the labor which would give full culture to his wasting powers. In this state of mind, innate refinement alone saved him from seeking the delusive happiness of the wine-cup, and he sought for a new excitement in the gaming-table. 
               Inexperienced as he was, he lost considerable sums; but this did not trouble him much. He knew his inheritance to be large, and he could well afford the drain of a few superfluous thousands; but the warning uttered by his father, in their last interview, made him pause in his career. 
               He had not played for two weeks, and believed himself strong enough to resist temptation. A party of gay young men had dined with him; they sat late over their wine, and, when they arose, a game of cards was proposed. In his own house, Clifford could not very well refuse, though he stipulated that the stakes should not be large. 
               They played, at first, with various fortunes, but, as the interest deepened, the stakes were doubled, trebled, until, at twelve o'clock, Clifford arose from the table a heavy loser. He had an engagement to meet some friends at a fashionable party that night, and, hastily giving his note for the amount, he arranged his toilette, and, in a state of feverish excitement, was borne to the door of a brilliantly-lighted mansion. 
               Bright smiles from the queens of the ballroom greeted the appearance of Reginald, and he marvelled that they produced so slight an effect upon himself. The time had been when those flashing glances would have bewildered his senses, and dwelt in his memory for days afterward. Whence came the change? His own heart could very well have answered. 
               He paused many times to return the greetings of his innumerable friends, before he succeeded in reaching the entrance to a smaller apartment, communicating with the ballroom by a sliding door, before which hung folds of heavy crimson drapery. Only the privileged few, who were intimates of the lady of the house, possessed the right to enter this sanctuary. To Reginald it was always accessible. 
               He stood several moments, looking down the brilliant vista the room presented, and moralizing on the scene. 
               "A party-what is it? A collection of human beings assembled together ostensibly for enjoyment, and how many find it? Is it with those weary matrons who follow the footsteps of their giddy daughters in a round of gayety for which they have lost all relish? Is it with those wordly wise men, who look as if the labors of Sysiphus rested on their shoulders-as if no new emotion could find a place in their macadamized hearts? Is it with those girls, yet young in years, but old in all the arts of the coquette-ready to bestow their brightest smiles, to sacrifice the pure truthfulness of woman's nature, in exchange for a brilliant establishment? Is it with those young men who dance so perfectly, and quote poetry so charmingly?" 
               Verily, to none of these is there genuine pleasure in a ball-room. Among the crowd, a few very young girls may be found, whose first season brings to them unalloyed delight. To dance to gay music is heaven to them-to be on the floor every set, is the hight of bliss-and the winged feet never seem to weary. At the last hour, they skim through the mazes of the dance as lightly as the ocean foam plays upon the billows. To these, a party brings happiness unmingled with care. To the rest, it is a mere arena of display, where fine clothes, fine airs, and fine suppers, can not conceal from the actors the real insipidity of the whole affair, brilliant as it may seem, and finely as the description may read in the papers the following morning, should it chance to be given in a house of sufficient distinction to entitle it to such notice. 
               Dancing immediately in front of Reginald was a young girl of the last-named class. She seemed the bright embodiment of youth, and hope, and joy. With the gliding motion of a sylph, was an expression of quiet joyousness, which suggested to the imagination the soft breath of summer air amid the flowers-the undulating motion of the sea-waves-the song of birds in the morning sunshine. You felt that the twinkle of those fairy feet but kept time with the glad music of the happy spirit within. 
                
               Her dress was white, ornamented with flowers; her bright brown tresses were rolled back from the temples, so as to show a broad, clear brow, with the hair growing low at the sides in two beautiful curves, and the tracery of the azure veins was distinctly visible beneath the delicate skin. Her features were finely cut, and her complexion as exquisite a blending of the lily and the rose as ever poet raved about. It was a face to dwell on with delight, from the extreme innocence and bright purity of its expression; but, to one who had thought, felt, and suffered, it was deeply interesting, from what it promised in the future, when the character was fully formed, and the soul of the woman perfected through trials, should look forth from those dark blue orbs, upon the world, which would no longer be to her a fairy land. 
               She was very young-scarcely seventeen-and Reginald knew that this was her first entrance in the vanity fair that surrounded her; for the ball was given by Mrs. Selden, in honor of her daughter's introduction into society. Her eyes fell on Clifford, and a brighter smile parted her lips, as she made a slight motion toward the entrance of the boudoir. 
               "You will find Constance there," said the young Peri, as she flitted past him in the dance. 
               "And you, fair Annie-how are you enjoying your first ball?" he smilingly asked. 
               "O, it is charming! What a pity one can not have a fine ball every night! It would be like living in fairy land." 
               Reginald shrugged his shoulders. 
               "Ah, yes-if the flowers would not lose their perfume-if the lights would not grow dim-if the heart would not weary of the hollowness of mirth," he vaguely said. Then, with a glance at the bright spirit of Hope, that looked up to him with her undimmed eyes and radiant expression, he added: 
               "But I have no right to cast a shadow over your enjoyment, my fair Annie, by suggesting such old fancies-the disenchantment will come soon enough. I will seek your cousin." 
               "Do-for you make a discord in this beautiful scene." 
               And she nodded and smiled, as he disappeared behind the flowing drapery that concealed the open door. 
               The room he now entered was of fair proportions, with an arched recess at the farther end, filled with tropical plants. The walls were dazzlingly white, and smooth as marble, with gilt moldings around the ceiling, and a center-piece, representing roses and lilies knotted together, from which hung a chandelier, glittering with cut glass and silver. 
               Four pictures were upon the walls; they were fine copies of the most interesting series ever painted by an American artist-Cole's Voyage of Life. Infancy, with its budding hopes and sinless aspirations, surrounded by a landscape, fair as blossomed around Eden before the curse of sin fell upon it. Youth, upon its flower-laden bark, gliding through fairy scenes that seem to open on every side into vistas of beauty, each one lovely enough to be the entrance to Paradise; but the voyager sees them not, for mirrored on the translucent atmosphere is an airy castle, whose exquisite proportions, each moment, seem to assume some new and more attractive form. Toward this, the eyes of the enthusiast are turned; and his arms are outstretched, as if to embrace the ideal of his own fancy. 
               Then comes manhood: the seal of suffering, of struggle, is placed upon that noble brow; the chateau en espagne has faded-faded-until not a vestige remains. The morning sun has ceased to gild the landscape, and the shadows of approaching evening are gathering over it, as the frail bark draws near the rapids in the current. But the angel which stood beside the innocent child still lingers near the world-tried man; that angel is his faith in the final victory of good over evil, and in the last one of the series is pictured his reward. 
               The aged pilgrim, with silvery hair and bowed frame, is nearing the final bourne; and, lo! the angel of his life beams on him from the parted clouds, and beckons him to the home his wearied soul is glad to enter, that it may find the rest promised to the heavy laden. 
               The imagination can follow that bowed form into the bright abode of the blessed- can see the load of mortality laid down at the portals, and the freed spirit spring into an eternity of happiness and youth. Touched deeply with the spirit of divinity was that artist-soul which bodied forth the history of all his brotherhood in these exquisite pictures. They possess a poetry, and a moral, which all the efforts of ancient art can never equal; for they mostly represent the fables of a gorgeous mythology, while these come home to the heart of every man as the embodiment of his own spiritual existence-of the Christian's faith in his final reward, when the struggle is ended. 
               Such had often been Reginald's reflections, as he stood before these enchanting pictures; but now he scarcely gave a glance toward them, as he passed toward the farther end of the room, where was gathered a small group around a table, before which stood a young girl, employed in telling fortunes. 
               A small statuette, dressed as a sibyl, was placed upon a dial of flowers, which, at a touch, revolved beneath her feet; she held a wand in her hand, and the flower to which this pointed indicated the reply to the question asked. The girl held before her a collection of sibylline leaves, in which the answer was found. The fair oracle was not beautiful, but there was much to attract in the arch face, with its brilliant complexion, bright smile, and bewitching dark eyes. 
               Her answers were ready and piquant, and were evidently more frequently her own than gleaned from the sybilline leaves; for they, like most other collections of the kind, were not remarkable for their brilliancy or point. 
               As Clifford advanced toward her, a very slight increase of color might have been detected on her cheek, and a bright glance from her black eye greeted him, as he stood amid the seekers into the future. 
               "Ha! Clifford, you have deigned to appear among us at last," said a tall young man, turning indolently toward him. "Miss Grey has undertaken to become the oracle of Fate, and really, 'pon honor, what do you suppose she predicts for me?" 
               "Something very desirable, I hope. As I intend consulting her myself, I shall be sorry to find her addicted to predicting evil." 
               "'Pon honor, she smashes one's day-dreams without mercy. Here have I long been waiting for something extraordinary to happen to me, when I am to be as happy as the people we read of in books; and she disenchants me by telling me I shall be nothing better than a 'professor of life-weariness.' Cruel-isn't it-to deal such a blow at the pleasure of imagination?" 
               "And I," said a young man, whose flushed features betrayed his fondness for wine, "have a curious fortune given me. Miss Grey says I am to live in a state of 'fluid-consciousness,' and meet the fate which befel a brother of a king of England. 'Gad, I'm no historian, and I can not tell what our fair friend really means." 
               "To mystify you, as she does every one else," said a young lady, who leaned on the arm of the votary of Bacchus. "But, a truce to the future! Let us return to the ball-room, Mr. Wilson, and enjoy the present as well as we can." 
               "That is, indeed, the true philosophy of life," replied Wilson; and the two left the room. 
               Clifford smiled, and said to Miss Grey: 
               "Carlyle and Emmerson would scarcely be much flattered at hearing their deep sayings travestied by a gay girl like yourself. And now what sayeth the oracle in regard to my fate? I have faith. I am impatient to learn my future from your lips." 
               The slight emphasis upon the pronoun caused a momentary embarrassment, but she quickly recovered, and, glancing archly at him, said, with quiet gravity: 
               "The gods proclaim that you shall be a failure, because-because-" 
               "Why?" he eagerly asked, seeing that she hesitated. 
               "Because you lack earnestness of purpose, and, without that, no man excels;" and she looked him clearly in the face. 
               "This is your own answer," he said, in a slight tone of pique. 
               "And, if it is?" 
               "Then, I can only say you place a lower estimate than I hoped upon one who deserves better at your hands. To others, I may be unstable as water; but, to you, at least, I have ever been the same unchanging friend." 
               The girl slightly paled, as she felt how much in earnest he now was. She said: 
                
               "Pooh! It was but a jest." 
               "Straws show the course of the wind, and trifles as uncared for often indicate the course of human destiny. The purposeless one bids you adieu, Miss Constance Grey." 
               "But, to return again," she replied, with a smile, full of meaning. "If my badinage can elicit any thing beyond mere pique-if it stimulate you to the efforts you are so capable of making-my object is attained, and I am repaid." 
               Where the conscience is tender, a touch, however gentle, may irritate, and Reginald turned coldly away, unthawed by the smile which had so often bewitched him. Pretending not to see the hand which was held out as a peace-offering, he retired from the table, and took a seat near the fire in a large cozily-cushioned chair, and ruminated alone in all the majesty of offended dignity. 
               Truly he was unreasonable. He quarreled with flattery, and now truth was displeasing. Ay; but blame from her lips was more than he could bear; for young as she was, Clifford had high respect for Constance Grey's judgment. He had seen her almost from a child, occupying her present position in her aunt's family, and ever as the intelligent good fairy of the household hearth. Her's was the guiding spirit that gave an impulse to all above the standard of every-day custom that was known in the family. Mrs. Selden, a weak, common-place person, was elevated into respectability by the quiet influence her niece exerted over her. The wealth which once had only rendered her a conspicuous mark for ridicule, was now used so gracefully, so nobly, that the good lady found herself exalted to the position of a woman of elegant taste and genuine benevolence. 
               Clifford had long seen and comprehended all this; and month after month, year after year, the conviction had grown and deepened, that in Constance Grey he must find the partner of his future life, or ever remain without the ties of home and wedded happiness; and she had as good as told him that he did not come up to her ideal standard! 
               He came there that night with his mind almost made up to hazard a proposal; for her influence alone he now believed would rescue him from the new passion which threatened to enthrall him. His hope of a favorable answer suddenly withered beneath her words; for scrupulously just and truthful as he knew her to be, he feared she would never consent to link her fate, for time and eternity, with that of one she could not implicitly trust. And was he not notoriously infirm of purpose? His many sins arose before his awakened conscience; he resolved to reform his habits at once, and show that he could practice a self-control worthy of a Spartan. 
               While Reginald thus ruminated, various parties strolled into the room, and the sooth saying abilities of Constance were tested by many; but she no longer gave the sparkling responses which had flowed from her lips in the earlier portion of the evening. The sibylline leaves now furnished the replies, and unmeaning enough many of them were. 
               At length the music ceased to flow in from the ball-room; the murmur of voices died away, and the decaying fire sent forth feeble rays of heat and light, yet Reginald still lingered, wrapt in a painful reverie, in which debt, love, and discontent played their play out in his distracted mind. 
               Suddenly a ray of warm sunshine seemed to stream upon him; a fair form stood beside him; a gentle face beamed on him, and a voice of even quiet melody addressed him. 
               "Mr. Clifford-Reginald, have I offended you past forgiveness by my thoughtless words?" 
               "No, Constance, they were not thoughtless. Do not say that, for I feel they were the offspring of conviction in your own mind, and there lies the sting." 
               "Yet they were thoughtless in one sense. I did not dream they would produce so unpleasant an effect, or I might have hesitated to utter them. To point out the faults of a friend is always an invidious task, and I, perhaps, am presumptuous in attempting it with you; but my, my-" 
               She faltered, and seemed uncertain what word to use; interest, she was about to add, when Clifford seized her hand and whispered: 
               "Say your affection, Constance, and I will pardon and bless you as my better angel. Infirm of purpose I may be, Constance Grey, but for years I have at least been true to one image-faithful to one love, and that you have inspired." 
               He dad risen, and now stood before her with his impassioned eyes fixed upon her face, endeavoring to read there the answer he almost feared to hear. She grew so pale, and the hand he held became so cold, he feared she would faint. Her words were lowly breathed, but he lost not a syllable. 
               "O, Reginald, if I only dared to trust you!" 
               "You shall be able to do so, Constance, before I ask the last proof of your love in the bestowal of this dear hand. Hear me vow-" 
               "No-no," she quickly interrupted. "Do not bind yourself by vows. What has but now passed between us is quite sufficient; words can not make the obligation more sacred than it already is. My happiness is in your keeping-let that suffice. The rest I can leave to your own generous impulses and noble heart. A motive is all you need; you have it now." 
               He rapturously uttered his thanks, but Constance withdrew her hand in some confusion, for Mrs. Selden at this moment entered, followed by her young daughter, who looked as cheerful and unwearied as if just attired for the dance. 
               The elder lady was a stout, good-natured looking woman, with very small black eyes, and ruddy complexion. Her dress was very elegant, indeed, rather juvenile for her years, but the influence of her good genius even here, preserved her from overstepping the boundary which trenched on absurdity. She wore a silver gray silk, trimmed with fine lace fastened at the throat with a diamond pin. Bracelets of the same costly gems, confined lace ruffles above her white and jeweled hands, and a cap made of blonde and delicate flowers intermixed, completed her costume. 
               She threw herself into the chair from which Clifford had recently risen, and exclaimed: 
               "Well, I'm glad it's over! for I'm sure I am quite worn out with standing to receive all those people, and listening to the nonsense they talked!" 
               "Thank you, ma," said Annie, laughing. 
               "For what, child?" 
               "As it was my first ball, I think it very probable that the remarks addressed to you were mostly in my praise. Flattery is the breath of society, and there are few who know you, who are not aware that praise of your spoiled child is the surest road to your heart." 
               Mrs. Selden regarded her bright young beauty with an expression of fondest admiration. In that glance was seen that, weak and worldly as the mother might be, there was one deep and hallowed feeling in her soul, with which life itself was entwined. Mrs. Selden had made unto herself an idol, and that idol was her fair and delicate child. Woe unto thy heart, hapless mother, should evil befall this cherished flower; guard her well, for she is a sweet exotic that a harsh breeze may fatally chill. 
               The mother drew the flushed cheek of her darling toward her, and imprinting a kiss upon it, replied: 
               "All the praises ever lavished on you, my precious one, never made you dearer to me than when I first held you in my arms. But you are weary, dearest; go to your room; your cousin will accompany you." 
               Glad to make her escape, Constance passed her arm around the young girl, and would have drawn her away, but Annie resisted. 
               "No; not yet, coz. I am interested in what ma is going to say to Mr. Clifford." 
               "Why, child, what can you mean?" asked Mrs. Selden. 
               "I heard some one mention the Osbornes, and you said, in reply, 'I do not know; I will ask Reginald Clifford.' Now I am dying to know what it is you are going to ask. I remember Edward Osborne with interest; we used to play lovers at dancing school when I was a wee thing, and he was a great tall lad. I gave him a ring once, which I would not wonder if he has yet.' I do not quite under stand how all those terrible changes in their fortunes came about, and I must stay to hear about them." 
               Mrs. Selden looked disturbed. 
               "That childish nonsense must be forgotten now, Annie. Edward Osborne has passed quite out of your sphere. In all probability, you will never again meet. I heard a strange piece of news to-night, concerning this family of Osbornes, which I scarcely know who to believe." 
               "What was it, madam?" inquired the young man. 
               "That after the death of Mr. Osborne, your father accidentally came across them in some of his rambles, and has taken the widow and children under his protection. Is it so? And if true, how was he moved to forgive Mr. Osborne's dreadful treatment of himself in the days of their early manhood?" 
               "The aggressor is dead, madam; and in his grave lies buried all the animosity and bitterness of other years. It is true, that my father found Mrs. Osborne and her children in a very destitute condition in one of the dilapidated cottages on his own estate. He has removed them to the manor, and will endeavor to render them comfortable there." 
               "And you?-what are your feelings in reference to this?" 
               "I can not say that I am particularly moved by so natural a proceeding. My father has a right to do with his own as he chooses; and as Mrs. Osborne is a distant relative of my mother, it seems to me they have some claims on us. I have often thought my father lived too solitary a life, and I am rejoiced that something has at last occurred to force him out of his usual course, and give a new interest to his monotonous existence." 
               "Do you know her; have you seen the daughter?" 
               "I have not. I have been at the manor but once since the family was received there. On that occasion, Mrs. Osborne was too ill to receive strangers; and her daughter was in close attendance on her." 
               "I have seen her. I know her," said Mrs. Selden, emphatically; "and a more perfect incarnation of selfishness it would be hard to find. I believe she has strong natural affections, but they are centered in her own family, and for their interests, for her own aggrandizement, she would be capable of almost any thing. I bid you beware of the influence she may establish over the mind of so great a dreamer as Mr. Clifford." 
               Reginald carelessly replied: 
               "You take this matter too seriously, my dear Mrs. Selden. I believe the property inherited by my father is settled on me irrevocably. He is too liberal to me to permit me to utter a syllable in reference to his charities. I was not before aware that you had any acquaintance with the Osbornes." 
               "It is a very curious history. Mr. Osborne had an eccentric bachelor uncle, from whom he had great expectations, and I believe that many of his wild speculations were based on this hope. I do not very well understand the affair, but he used a large sum of money belonging to Mr. Elbert, without authority from him to do so. This so enraged the old man, that he refused to have any further intercourse with his family. Mr. Selden was then living, and while Mr. Elbert's anger was at its hight, he came to dine with us. Annie was then quite a little girl; I had taught her several childish songs, and she had a winning way of her own, that quite took the old gentleman's heart. After that, he came frequently to see us, and always caressed her with great fondness. He died suddenly of apoplexy, and on opening his will, it was found that he had bequeathed Mr. Osborne the sum of which he had defrauded him; and the bulk of his handsome fortune came to my daughter." 
               The three hearers listened with deep interest. 
               "Since this is so, ma, I think I am the one to assist Mrs. Osborne," said Annie, earnestly. 
               "I have no objection, I am sure, my child; but there is a codicil to the will, which has rendered me weakly anxious to keep you at a distance from the family. I fancied they might cast sinister glances upon you; and I could not bear that one so precious to my heart, should come in contact with those who would be benefited by her removal from their path." 
               "What is the nature of this codicil, mother? 
               "It provides that in case you die unmarried, the bulk of the property reverts to the children of Mr. Osborne." 
               "And you feared they might slyly put me out of the way by a dose of poison, or by casting an evil eye upon me?" said Annie laughing. "No-no, mother, I am not afraid of any arts that could be used against me. have innocently injured these unfortunate people, and I must make reparation, even to sharing my fortune with them." 
               Mrs. Selden coldly replied: 
               "You are yet too young to do any thing of that kind legally; and no inducement will gain my consent for you to hold a personal interview with any of the family. You may send ample assistance to them, either anonymously or by writing in your own name; but you shall not meet one of them, if I can prevent it." 
               "Mother, your tenderness for me makes you almost weak," said Miss Selden, in a tone of chagrin. "Let it be as you will, however, I will send them assistance anonymously, since it would probably be refused if offered as you suggest. Good night. Come, coz, let us to bed, for I verily believe the stars are fading before the light of day." 
               As Constance passed before her lover, she whispered: 
               "Do not speak to my Aunt to-night." 
               He bowed, smiled, and they parted. As he bade Mrs. Selden adieu, she said: 
               "You had better look after Barbara Osborne." 
               "I will visit my father to-morrow evening, my dear madam. You have awakened my curiosity concerning this young lady. It seems to me your imagination is strangely excited in reference to her." 
               "She is her father's true daughter, as you will yet discover," replied Mrs. Selden, with an accent of perfect conviction. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               IT was late in the day when Clifford awoke from his disturbed slumbers; he felt languid and unrefreshed, and was about to close his eyes again to court the drousy god anew, when his servant entered, and informed him that a gentleman, who had already called twice in the course of the morning, was in the parlor waiting to see him. 
               "Who is he? What is his business with me?" he impatiently inquired. 
               The man handed him a card on which was written, "Mr. Hammond, of the firm of Walmer & Hammond, requests an interview with Mr. Clifford on business of importance." 
               Reginald knew this to be a well-known law firm, noted for undertaking the most intricate and apparently hopeless causes, which they often prosecuted to a successful termination. What business they could possibly have with him, puzzled him exceedingly. 
               He arose, made a rapid toilet, and entered the parlor, where he found his visitor engaged in making notes on an old letter-back, and looking intensely interested. He was a tall, grim, iron-looking man, with his gray hair cropped as closely to his head, as if apprehensive that he might chance to get it pulled if he permitted it to grow longer. 
               On our hero's entrance, he arose and said: 
               "Mr. Clifford, junior, I presume: I am happy to make your acquaintance, sir, though under unpleasant circumstances." 
               "Pray be seated, Mr. Hammond," said Reginald, courteously, "and I will hear from you the nature of your business with me." 
               "Exactly. I came to notify you, sir, that a suit is about to be commenced against your father's estate. Mr. Walmer, my partner, a clever man in his way, thought perhaps a compromise might-" 
               "Excuse me, sir, but what does this mean? Pray explain yourself, so that I may comprehend what is really your business," said Clifford, with some appearance of annoyance. 
               "Young, hot-blooded, impatient; get over that in good time," continued the imperturbable visitor, regarding him through his small gray eyes, while he drew a bundle of papers from his capacious pocket. 
               From these he selected one, and handed it to the perplexed young man. To his surprise, it contained a formal notification that a suit was about to be instituted against Reginald Clifford, senior, for a certain square of ground in the city of Alexandria, known as B-- Square, having been improved by the old man, after whom it was named, and subsequently purchased of him by Mr. Clifford. 
               Reginald hastily glanced over it, and then said: 
               "This property has been many years in the possession of my father, Mr. Hammond, and no doubt has ever before been expressed as to the validity of the title. It surprises me that such a claim should now be set up." 
               "All that may be very true, Mr. Clifford, but circumstances shape one's course of action, you know, in reference to all worldly affairs. The heirs of B-- think that a suit may result favorably to them; information has reached them, how obtained, or of what nature, I am not at liberty to say; but certain facts certainly have become known to them, which induce them to believe that a very pretty suit can be made out of it, unless, as I said before, you may be disposed to compromise" 
               "This sounds very strangely to me, sir," said Reginald, haughtily. "I will give the facts a thorough examination, but not with a view of compromising our just rights, I assure you. While justice is to be found in the land, this property will be declared to belong to my father. I answer for him, that he will defend his cause, if so iniquitous a suit is brought, even to the last foot of ground, and the last dollar left to him." 
               "I would advise you, young gentleman, to consult with your father, before you make so decisive a reply," said Mr. Hammond, coolly. "He may be aware of reasons that may induce you to assume a lower tone in this affair. A suit like the present one is not to be lightly undertaken. It may last for years, and, in the end, impoverish you. In what should be the prime of life, it will probably leave you a broken-down man, weary of the protracted struggle, and glad to end it, even with dire poverty staring you in the face." 
               Reginald's lip curled. 
               "You waste your eloquence on me, Mr. Hammond. Save it until your client's cause comes before a jury. I will defend our interests myself, and, by showing ability and industry in the prosecution of my own cause, I shall be able to gain business from others, and thus, I trust, preserve myself from falling into the abyss of misery you so obligingly depict." 
               "No one doubts Mr. Reginald Clifford's talents, but his industry is rather apocryphal," said the lawyer, blandly. "Excuse me-but the life you have hitherto led does not induce me to expect a great amount of exertion from a gay young man like yourself." 
               "That may be true of the past, but not of the future. Byron said he 'woke up one morning, and found himself famous.' I have undergone a yet stranger metamorphosis, for I have waked up this morning, and found myself gifted with energy and will to overcome my indolent self-indulgence. Hitherto, I have been only a man of pleasure, Mr. Hammond, but the resolution is strong within me to become a man of business; this threatened reverse only strengthens the good resolutions I formed before I last slept." 
               Mr. Hammond listened with an incredulous air. 
               "Well, well, we shall see-we shall see. It is easy to make good resolutions, but quite another thing to fulfill them." 
               "True," replied Clifford, tranquilly. "But I do not doubt myself. I have been a rambling student of your profession for several years; but now I shall apply myself in earnest. Be assured that I shall soon be prepared to meet you on your own ground; in the meantime, I will seek my father, and ascertain his views in reference to the defense we shall make." 
               "Very well, sir; then I bid you good morning. Any further communication from you will reach us at our chambers in -- street." 
               Mr. Hammond departed, and Clifford remained buried in unpleasant reflection. He knew that, with the exception of the old and nearly worn out place on which his father lived, the whole of his property was invested in the square in question, and their income was derived from the rents accruing from it. 
               Not only did his love for Constance point out to him the change that must take place in his habits, but fate itself seemed to be conspiring to force reformation upon him. He saw, clearly, the path he must pursue, and he bravely resolved to walk in it. He knew that in himself he had many difficulties to encounter; his pampered love of ease-his fastidious shrinking from the ordinary business of life-his reckless habits of expenditure-must all be resolutely conquered; but, with strong purpose, he believed he could ultimately come off victor, in the struggle with himself. 
                
               This conviction gained strength as the bright image of Constance Grey, with her beaming smile and true womanly heart, arose before his fancy. 
               "She has given me a motive, and I will conquer," he exclaimed, as he arose from his scarcely tasted breakfast. 
               To discharge the gaming debt contracted on the previous night, was his first care; and this admitted of no delay, as the party to whom it was due, intended leaving for New York in the evening. A considerable portion of the sum recently obtained from his father, was yet in his possession, but it did not suffice to discharge the large amount lost on the preceding evening. He went out, and without much difficulty, obtained an advance from a friend, to whom he had before extended similar favors himself. 
               By the time this business had been satisfactorily arranged, the evening sun was declining toward the horizon, and as Clifford mounted his horse to gallop over the seven miles which lay between himself and the manor, he saw that it would be quite dark before he could make much progress toward his destination. 
               Closely buttoning his overcoat, to exclude the chilly air of evening, he put spurs to his steed, and was soon in the open country. Then his hands slackened their grasp on the reins; the rapid canter of his horse subsided into a leisurely pace, and absorbed in the dreams that filled his mind, Reginald scarcely noted the well-known scenes through which he was borne. 
               A brilliant sunset, floating in regal clouds of purple and gold, gleamed before him, but he saw it not; the radiant atmosphere gradually subsided to a tint of sober gray, which was speedily illumined by the bright watchers that peeped from the crystalline depths above; but the mind of the rider was too intensely occupied to note even the beauty of the crescent moon, hanging upon the horizon's verge, with a single bright star almost within her clasp, while other sparkling worlds formed a galaxy of glory around her. 
               Clifford had proceeded but little more than half way, when he was suddenly aroused by the sharp click of rapid hoofs behind him. In another moment, a horse was checked close by his side. The moon had sunk behind the trees, and, by the dim twilight, he could only make out the figure of a middle-sized man, muffled, like himself, in a heavy overcoat, with his hat drawn deeply over his brows. 
               The stranger spoke in a thick voice, which was partly owing to the high collar of his coat, but the tone was, evidently, an assumed one; and Reginald put his hand in his bosom, to ascertain if the pistol he carried there, was within the ready grasp of his hand. 
               "A cool night, and a lonely road you have before you, Reginald Clifford. If it will not be too great an intrusion, I wish to ride a mile or two with you, and confer with you on a matter of interest to yourself." 
               "You seem to know my name, though you are an entire stranger to me," replied Clifford, "and I am quite at a loss to know what business you can have with me." 
               The dark rider coolly replied: 
               "That knowledge is easily gained, as I have sought you with the especial purpose of communicating it." 
               "Be speedy then, for I have matters of deeper interest which occupy my mind, and I care not to be interrupted." 
               "Nothing can be of more importance than the preservation of one's fortune and position in life. Have I read your thoughts correctly?" asked the stranger with a light laugh. 
               Reginald wheeled his horse suddenly, and endeavored to obtain a better view of his companion, but, looming amid the dusky light, was only a crouching figure, so wrapped up as to baffle him completely. 
               "Who are you?" he impatiently asked. "Whence come you?" 
               "Your first question I decline answering; because, I regard my name as my own especial property, and I give it to no man unless I see fit to do so. As to the last, I came from yonder town, which lies behind us, and my object in following you, was to hold an interview with you, where there should be no witnesses, and where you yourself should gain no means of identifying me hereafter." 
                
               "Really! and what may be the object of this important interview?" 
               "Business," was the emphatic reply. "I see you are impatient, so I will not detain you long. I am aware that this morning you received a formal notification that a harassing law-suit, involving nearly the whole of your estate, is about to be commenced against your father. What terms would you offer to gain the means of quashing the proceedings at once? You must bid high, I warn you, for the interests at stake are large." 
               Reginald rapidly reflected, and then said- 
               "I will offer nothing, for I am now convinced that the whole affair is a mere trick to swindle me out of a considerable sum of money. If you possess the means to avert this suit, you have already sold them to the opposite party; or lawyers of respectable standing would not have undertaken the business." 
               "True," replied the other coolly, "I have certainly pledged the papers in my possession to one party, and received a portion of the stipulated price, but they are not yet delivered. Offer me a higher bribe, and they are yours. Money I must have; and I am not scrupulous as to the means by which it may be acquired. You see I am honest in one sense at least-I make no pretensions to a virtue I do not possess." 
               "So it would seem," replied Clifford drily. "But, as I possess no guarantee for your probity in any other respect-and I have strong doubts of the truth of your statements-you will excuse me if I decline further parley with you." 
               "Is this your final decision, Reginald Clifford?" 
               "It is." 
               "You will repent it-ay, in sackcloth and ashes. A few more hours, and the power to serve you will have passed from my hands. Save your inheritance by giving credence to the word of one who confesses himself a villain, but who is a true man in this." 
               "Your anxiety to serve me seems so intense," replied Clifford sarcastically, "that I can only suggest the propriety of retaining the papers you refer to, until I can satisfy myself of the expediency of redeeming them. Then, perhaps, we may come to terms." 
               "Possibly; but my own interests are, of course, of paramount importance to myself; and they do not permit me to follow such a course. I am not a very old beginner in the game I am playing, but once embarked in it, I intend to make it pay magnificently. Once more, will you bid high, or take ruin as your portion?" 
               There was a reckless bravado in the tone in which he spoke, and Clifford replied- 
               "I do not believe that you possess the power to influence my fortunes in any manner, therefore, I again decline your extraordinary proposal. If right is on the side of our adversaries, let them triumph-if on ours, it surely will prevail, for God and Justice are one and indivisible. I bid you good night." 
               "God and Justice!" repeated the other with bitter contempt. "A clap-trap phrase, which sounds well enough, but means nothing. You have to deal, not with these, but rather with the devil and law. With that assurance, I bid you farewell, wishing you joy with your antagonists in the coming struggle." 
               He suddenly wheeled his black steed, put spurs to him, and galloped away as on the wings of the wind. Reginald looked after him, until his flexible figure was lost in the dim obscurity of night, and then proceeded at a rapid pace in the opposite direction, ruminating on the mysterious interview. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX 
               THE space that lay between Clifford and the manor, was passed over at a much more rapid pace, and he soon dismounted at the usual spot, near the door of his father's room. 
               All was quite dark within, and on knocking, no answer came. Making a circuit of the house, he soon gained the main entrance, and without difficulty obtained admittance to the vestibule. The sound of music guided him toward the apartment occupied by Mrs. Osborne, where he concluded he should find his father. 
               As he advanced through the high-arched corridor, the rich deep tones of an organ, skilfully touched, filled it with its solemn melody. The air was one which had been familiar to his childish heart, and he paused, deeply affected by the rush of early associations which came over his soul. 
               It was an evening hymn of his mother's, and even her sweet voice had never given it with more thrilling power, than the flexible tones which now blended with those of the instrument in delicious harmony. 
               Why is not sacred music more extensively cultivated by the fair daughters of our land? Elevating and pure are the feelings to which it gives birth, and the heart rises in greater adoration to heaven, amid the inspiring sounds, than when the voice alone speaks in ordinary words, asking help for our weakness from the beneficent Ruler of all. 
               Clifford advanced slowly toward a half open door, through which the blended light of a bright fire, and a softly shaded lamp, shone. Leaning against the wall, he paused where he had a good view of the interior, and curiously scanned the scene it presented. 
               Found in that old ruin, so long devoted to desolation and silence, it certainly was an extraordinary one. A handsome carpet covered the floor, and heavy curtains draped the window; between two of which, the old-fashioned organ was placed. Before it sat Barbara, with her well-turned head, and fine profile, in strong relief against the crimson folds of the curtain; Clifford started as he beheld in her the shadow of that fairer image shrined in his memory, which once sat upon that same spot, and lifted her white hands from the keys of her instrument, to caress the young head that nestled to her side. 
               After gazing long and earnestly upon her, his eyes wandered toward the other inmates of the apartment. Two large chairs occupied opposite sides of the fireplace, and in them were seated Mrs. Osborne and Mr. Clifford. The former looked pale and depressed, but he scarcely noted her in the deeper interest aroused by the change he at once observed in his father. He leaned back in the chair, with his hands clasped before him, and his eyes closed; the worn features looked sharper, the lines about the mouth deeper, than when he had last seen him; while the lips, and the closed eye-lids had a tremulous motion, which indicated strong emotion with difficulty repressed. 
               It seemed to Reginald, that, within the few past weeks, his father had suddenly grown old and feeble. Delicate in appearance, Mr. Clifford had always been; but Reginald had not before noted that extreme pallor, that great emaciation of person, which were now evident to him; and there was something in the wasted face which filled his heart with alarm. He felt that the shadowy vail was even then quietly descending between that world, wearied man and the transitory things of time-that the portals of eternity were slowly unclosing to admit him to the companionship of her for whose loss so many years of his life had been one long wail of sorrow. 
               Deely affected, as this conviction stole over his mind, Reginald gazed mournfully upon him, until a fourth figure approached a table, which was drawn up in front of the fire, and the young man's eyes were riveted as by some strange spell, upon this frail little form. 
               A boy, with the head of an angel, but with a dreamy-rapt expression on his fair features, stood before him. Long curls of golden hair swept back from his spiritual brow, and his large limpid eyes, of a clear light blue, seemed to gaze afar off, as if the forms, which are believed to hover in the space around us, were visible to him. There was an air of fragile delicacy about him, which seemed to mark him as one doomed early to fall before the scythe of the relentless reaper. 
               His dress was peculiar, and slightly fantastic. A long tunic of black velvet was girded about his slender waist by a crimson scarf, in the folds of which was thrust a small baton, with the carved figure of a serpent coiled around it, and the flat head, with its glittering eyes, were brought out in strong elief by the dark covering of the young bosom against which it pressed. An embroidered collar encircled his fair throat, and ruffles of delicate cambric fell over the small hands which were clasped before him. 
               Beautiful as the boy was, there was a wierd expression about him that recalled the stories of the elfin children, whose existence was so firmly believed by our ancestors. 
               Suddenly Mr. Clifford unclosed his eyes, waved his hand toward the musician, and said- 
               "Cease, Barbara, I can bear it no longer. Come to me, child; tell me if all is prepared for our experiment. O, my soul yearns inexpressibly for the moment of communion with the spirit of my wife! Yet, I am loth to summon her. Can it be right to bring her from the abode of angels, to behold me so broken down-so wretched?" 
               Barbara arose, drew a seat beside him, and in a soothing tone, said- 
               "She beholds you every day. She hovers over you when you know it not, though only of late has the power been attained to overleap the mystic barrier which has debarred you from communion with her. It has truly been said that 'there is a sense of hearing the vulgar know not, and the voices of the dead breathe soft and frequent to those who can unite the memory with the faith.' 
               "I have that faith. I believe earnestly in that mystic truth. Is the boy prepared to act his part? Will no terror fall on him when required to summon the spirits of the dead from the dread realm into which they have passed?" 
               "It is a realm of brightness, of beauty, of glory," softly replied Barbara, "and Harry has no fear of those who dwell in it. He has been with a medium, and ascertained his powers. At first, he was frightened, and I trembled for him; but he soon recovered, and seemed excited and amused by the novelty of his position. The child has already become as familiar with the spirits who come at his call, as you or I are with each other. Fear nothing for him." 
               "Then let him summon the only one I care to hold communion with," commanded Mr. Clifford. 
               Barbara arose, turned to her mother, and asked: 
               "Are you willing to be present, mother, or will you retire to your own room?" 
               Mrs. Osborne languidly signified her consent to remain, and the young girl then placed the table nearer the center of the floor, and drew forward the boy, until he stood beside it. Drawing the baton from the child's girdle, Barbara waved it thrice around his head, and signed to him to open the mystic scene. 
               Harry placed his hands on the table, with the palms pressed firmly upon it. Then his sweet childish voice arose in clear and unfaltering accents. 
               "If the spirit of the departed is present, let it be manifested to our earthly senses." 
               The eyes of the whole party were bent on the table with breathless interest; the child seemed to press with all his force upon it, yet the end slowly arose, at this invocation, and came down with a distinct rap, which echoed through the room, and sent a thrill to every soul that heard its awfully solemn sound. 
               Mr. Clifford started forward, with clasped hands and parted lips. 
               "Ida-adored, lost, lamented one-art thou near?" he asked. 
               Again the response was made in the same mysterious manner. 
               "Come near to me. Touch me, that I may have some tangible proof of the reality of your presence." 
               A thrill, like that produced by an electric shock, passed through his frame; his hand seemed grasped by the cool, soft palm of a delicate female, and he sunk back, overcome by the rush of emotions that struggled in his breast. 
               The boy, at whose bidding the table had risen, stood with parted lips and dilated eyes, rigid and white as if carved of stone. His lips were half parted, and he seemed to shiver with cold. 
               His sister's eye fell on him, and she asked, with sudden fear for him: 
               "Are you alarmed, Harry?" 
               "No," he answered, in a thrilling whisper, "I do not fear, but I see her. I see a white-robed angel floating above us; now there is another, and another! Ah! the room is filled with them-their wings fold over me; they stifle me-I can not breathe!" 
               The boy fell back into the arms that opened to receive his cold and lifeless form, while convulsive movements distorted his body. 
               "How dare you commit such wickedness as this?" asked a stern voice, and Barbara raised her haughty face to the indignant one of Reginald Clifford, who had rushed forward in time to receive the fainting form of the child in his arms. "Do you not see," he asked, "that you are destroying this hapless creature, body and soul? And yonder wreck of what was once a noble God-gifted man, you are hurrying to his doom by practciing your diablerie before him." 
               The fine features of Reginald flushed with disdain, anger, and reproach. Barbara, not at all abashed, calmly replied to him: 
               "If it is God's will that a new revelation shall be made, how can I prevent it?" 
               She took the writhing form of her brother tenderly in her arms, and, wiping the cold dews from his brow, she continued: 
               "Sooner would I shed the last drop of blood in my veins, than suffer a hair of this child's head to be injured. I feel that Heaven has appointed him to a peculiar lot, and I submit to its mandate. But you-who are you, and by what right do you intrude upon the sacred privacy of our domestic circle, in this extraordinary manner?" 
               "I am the son of that unfortunate man who sits yonder, and I was providentially directed hither, that I might behold, with my own eyes, the influences to which he is subjected. You play upon his credulity for some end which I have not yet fathomed; but I warn you that I will do so." 
               The girl smiled disdainfully. She said: 
               "Ask him-ask your father if it was not his earnest wish that I should permit my brother, who is precious and dear to my heart as a child can be to the most devoted mother, to become the medium by which he might more nearly approach the beings of another sphere." 
               "It matters not. It is a cheat, a humbug, nevertheless; and it is shameful to practice on the credulity of a mind that trembles on the verge of insanity." 
               While they thus spoke, Barbara threw water upon Harry's face, chafed his cold hands, and, as the blood again began to circulate, he stood up, and soon seemed quite recovered. She held him forward, and passionately said: 
               "Look at him. Are not innocence and truth stamped upon that face? Do you think I would dare to sully them, by making him an agent in a mere trick? No, no-as there is a Heaven above us, I know not whence nor how this power is obtained, but it is his by the gift of a higher intelligence-not by any earthly magic." 
               "If such a gift be his, be assured it comes not from Heaven, but rather from the author of all evil," replied Reginald; "for God would not permit such power to pass into the hands of those who might grossly abuse it." 
               "God permits many things, the wisdom of which our limited capacities can not comprehend. He who beholdeth the end, knoweth what is best for all," said Mr. Clifford, solemnly, as he arose and laid his hand deprecatingly on the arm of his son. Reginald, I charge you, speak not thus to this young girl, for, through her means, a ray of sunshine has streamed upon my darkened pathway. Daily and hourly, I feel the clogs of mortality loosening their hold, and falling from around me; a little while, and the golden bowl will be broken-long since was the silver chord loosed, and to Barbara I owe it, that the last sands of my life are brightened by love and by hope." 
               "O, my father! how have I deserved this reproach?" impetuously exclaimed the young man. "Would I not have remained with you-have ministered to your wants with filial affection? But you repulsed me-you refused my companionship-and now to a stranger you cling, in place of your own son." 
               "Reginald, you are a man, and the duties of one I wished you to fulfill; therefore, I could not keep you near me. My own existence bas been a wretched wasting of the powers with which I was gifted. I feel it-I know it now. Nature denied me the energy to work out my own delivery from the inexpressible weariness of the idler's life. I have ordered things differently for you, my son, and, in the future, you will thank me for it, however hard the cross may be to bear when you first assume it." 
               "The greater is my sin, that I have failed to appreciate your self-denial-your self-sacrificing affection for me," replied Reginald, deeply affected. "O! my father, forgive my sins of omission toward you, and henceforth I will be more attentive-more considerate for you." 
               "You will not be long taxed, for the end draweth near; the Lord be praised that it is so, for my soul wearies for the rest promised to the heavy-laden," said Mr. Clifford, solemnly. 
               After a pause, he resumed: 
               "And now, Reginald, look upon that face, and see why its owner was received at once by my heart as a daughter. She is of your mother's blood, and bears upon her features the resemblance which should make her dear to you, also, my son." 
               He drew Barbara forward, and attempted to place her hand in that of the young man; but both recoiled. She, from anger and insulted pride, and he from a feeling of repulsion he could not overcome. The appeal to his mother's memory rather increased the feeling; for he was annoyed at the resemblance he could not help acknowledging between this artful girl and the bright being he had so loved and clung to in his childish days. 
               "My dear father," he said, "give me time to know and understand Miss Osborne, before you insist on an instant appreciation of her good qualities. I must say, however, that her method of 'ministering to a mind diseased' is very extraordinary. I should have endeavored to prevent you from dwelling on the one fixed idea of your mind; but she seems to foster the delusion-to minister to your fancies-and even seek to give something like tangibility to them." 
               During this conversation, Harry had stood beside his sister, intently regarding the speakers. As Reginald uttered his last words, Barbara made an imperative sign to him; the boy seemed intuitively to comprehend her meaning; he raised his slender form, waved his serpent wand, and said, in his clear, childish treble: 
               "Spirit, manifest yourself." 
               A succession of quick, distinct raps, seemed to proceed from beneath the table; then shifted to the walls; and the young man, unbeliever as he was, grew pale. He grasped the arm of Barbara, and asked: 
               "By what art is this achieved? For I know it is the offspring of fraud." 
               She released herself, and proudly said: 
               "I have already once answered you, that I know not how it is. The facts must speak for themselves. We read that the visible shade of Samuel arose at the command of the Witch of Endor; then, why shall not the dead manifest themselves in our day?" 
               "Because the days of miracles are long since past." 
               "Not so; for they are here with us. Harry, command the table to arise and move whither you please. Perhaps that manifestation may convince our incredulous guest that 'there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in his philosophy.'" 
               The child waved his baton toward the table, uttered the required command, and, to the amazement of Clifford, it actually arose, moved several paces nearer to the fire, and settled down with a crash, as if offended at the doubts which had been expressed. 
               Reginald looked on in incredulous surprise. He saw a Bible lying on a chair near that occupied by his father, and, pointing to it, he said: 
               "Command yonder book to unclose, at some sentence which can have an application to my present position, and I will no longer express my skepticism, though I may still feel it." 
               In obedience to his request, the wand was bent toward the book, and the necessary words uttered. In spite of his incredulity, Clifford awaited the result with breathless interest. 
               After a brief pause, the lid slowly lifted; the leaves turned of themselves, until the Proverbs of Solomon lay open before him. Casting his eye upon the page, the following words arrested them: 
               "A wise son maketh a glad father, but a foolish man despiseth his mother." 
               He involuntarily read them aloud, and Barbara's fixed features relaxed into something like a smile. She gravely said: 
               "You perceive you are answered." 
               With difficulty repressing the reply that arose to his lips, Clifford turned to his father, and said: 
               "I think you have had sufficient excitement for one evening, sir; and, as I have business with you which does not admit of delay, I beg that you will return with me to your own apartment." 
               Mr. Clifford immediately arose, bade the family an affectionate good-night, and accompanied his son, who made a ceremonious bow, which was as stiffly returned by Miss Osborne. 
               Reginald was shocked to find that his father was so weak as to need the support of his arm, and, even with that, he reached his room with difficulty. A distressing shortness of breath impeded his utterance for many moments after he was seated in his usual place. 
               "My dear father," he asked, in a concerned tone, "why did you not let me know how unwell you are? I am shocked to find you so changed since I last saw you." 
               "It is only the inward decay, which has long been going on, coming to a rapid crisis, my son. Be not grieved, for I rejoice that the hour approaches in which the angel of Death will come to me as a deliverer. Ah! the weariness, the emptiness of existence, to me, who shall understand? Reginald, make unto yourself active interests in life-battle with the sorrows that would prostrate your energies. Work-labor-and remember the words of the Apostle: 'Soon the night cometh, when no man can work.' Ah! the night long since closed on me, even while life lingered in the shattered frame. Do you know, Reginald, that a single line of poetry has haunted me like a demon? Yet it is the most touching embodiment of inconsolable grief that ever was penned: 
                     'One I have loved is debarred of the day.'
                   Does it not say all-all that comes home most thrillingly painful to the human heart? The fair image we so loved-the beauty which was an ever-present delight-has gone down to claim kindred with darkness and decay; and they vainly tell us of the brighter day to which the spirit has awoke. We believe that truth, but we feel the words of the poet. No wonder that the writer pined for the lost one until he was laid beside her." 
               "Yet, my father, we feel assured that a brighter day has dawned on her, who has only gone before you a few brief years," said Reginald, softly, for he feared that his father's mind began to wander. 
               "I have tried to console myself with that thought, Reginald, but then my own desolation lay so heavy on my soul. O, my God! why are human hearts so perilously endowed, but to break beneath the weight laid upon them?" 
               Mr. Clifford's excitement seemed so great that Reginald endeavored to soothe him by every means in his power, before he referred to the business which brought him there. 
               When he at length succeeded in this, the vital powers of the old gentleman seemed nearly exhausted, and he sunk at once into a sleep apparently as deep and dreamless as that of a tired child. 
               Reginald watched beside him, hour after hour, until worn out with fatigue; his head sunk upon the side of the bed, and he, too, slept-little dreaming, as he did so, that life was rapidly ebbing from the worn frame beside him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               ANNIE SELDEN unclosed her violet eyes, after many hours of refreshing slumber, looking as bright and fresh as though the dissipation of the previous night possessed no power to dim the rose upon her cheek, or cast a shade over her brilliant loveliness. 
               She warbled snatches of gay song, while a negro woman, with a face shining with good humor, braided the lengths of her silken hair, and occasionally made some comments on its beauty. 
               "I clar, now, Miss Annie, you is mighty pretty; and dat's what I hearn many genplems say, las' night. Hi-dat was somefin to think on when you gits old an' gray-headed, ef dis silky har ever gwine to turn white. Dat was a party what was wurf callin' one; de gran' music-de fine dancin'! O! my darlin' little missie, I hope de fortune will always be as gran' as de party." 
               "I hope so, Peggy; and then you shall be my housekeeper," replied the young girl, merrily. "I shall need a manager, you know-for I am such a little butterfly, I never expect to be good for any thing in that line." 
               "O, yes, you be good for every thing, missie; but Peggy will be your stan'by, sure 'nuff; den won't we have fine times? Dat 'minds me, Miss Annie: did you find a letter on de table las' night, what was gin me by a colored genplem, a 'ticular frien' o' mine? I put it on de note-basket, dar by de glass." 
               "A declaration you wish me to read for you?" asked her young mistress. 
               "O, de laws a no! What for I dar to put my letters on dat ar fine basket! No; bless you, honey, it is for your own pretty self." 
               "For me? Then why was it sent so mysteriously, and from whom did the 'colored genplem' receive it?" asked Annie. 
               "Dat's what he didn't know heself-caze he said he got a dollar from a strange young man, who wouldn't even let him see his face, to bring it here and put it in my han's." 
               "That was very wrong," said the young lady, gravely, "and I can not read it." 
               The woman looked slyly at her. 
               "Dar, now, I 'spect you think it's a love-letter; but I believe it's some poor creature axin' charity from de rich Miss Selden." 
               Annie blushed at the acuteness with which the negro had fathomed her thoughts. Like all young girls, she was extremely romantic, and this mystery interested her. She held out her hand for the enameled note-holder, made in imitation of a bouquet of rare flowers, and from it drew a delicate white envelop, addressed to herself in a hand that was entirely unknown to her. 
               With a flushed cheek she examined the motto, while she hesitated about the propriety of breaking the seal. "Read, it concerns yourself," seemed to indicate something more than a mere love-letter, but she had a vague idea that it was wrong to receive a communication thus clandestinely sent. Her perplexed expression caused the woman to say: 
               "What for you no break de seal, missie? an' see what's in it. It's no use turnin' it over an' over dat way; you never find nothin' out lookin' at de outside." 
               "That is true, Peggy, but I am afraid it will be wrong to read it. Ma would be displeased if she knew you had received this letter, and given it to me, for you know she is extremely particular." 
               "La sakes! den missie han' it back to me, an' let me car' it back to de nigger what gin it to me. Ole missis ain't so mighty 'ticler, tho', for I's carried her letters many's de time, an' she never thought nothin' of it, but read 'em all de same." 
               Annie laughed. 
               "Letters of business, perhaps; and, beside, ma knows more about life than I do. I am too young to act for myself." 
               "Well, maybe dis a business letter-who knows, Miss Annie? Pshaw, child! open your letter, an' see what's in it. Ef you don't, mebby you'll never find out what it's about. You know, now, somebody may be axin' you for help what needs it mighty bad." 
               Annie's curiosity was rapidly getting the better of her judgment, and at this last suggestion she quickly tore open the envelop, and a sheet of fine note-paper closely written, together with a small gold ring, were drawn forth. Rapidly the thoughts of Annie Selden flew back to the days of her childhood, for at a glance she recognized the ring as one given by herself to Edward Osborne five years before, when she was but a little lass. 
               If a doubt of it's identity had existed, their united initials on the inside of the golden circlet would have speedily banished it; and she held it on her slender finger, and gazed on it with mingled feelings of pleasure and pain. The image of the handsome youth who had been her partner at dancing-school, and at all the children's balls she remembered attending for several years, arose pleasantly before her; then came the singular bequest to herself of the fortune his family expected to inherit; the removal soon after of Mr. Osborne to a neighboring city; their subsequent passage into that sea of oblivion to which broken fortunes are the surest passport among mere worldlings; and her young heart swelled at the thought that she had innocently stepped between the impoverished family and the inheritance to which they were the natural heirs. 
               With unsteady fingers, she unclosed the note, and read the following words: 
               "I was not among your invited guests tonight, fair Annie, sweet vision of purity and youth, but I, nevertheless, beheld you in all your innocent beauty. Yes; to look on the fair child I once so fondly loved in the opening ing spring of maiden loveliness, I entered those doors which would have been closed on me had my name been announced. 
               "I mingled with the crowd around the ballroom door for a few moments, and, like the Israelite of old, who from afar beheld the land of promise, I obtained glimpses of the charming fairy, who, even in childhood, cast her spells around me. 
               "I know that your mother would refuse me admittance within her house, therefore I seek not to visit you until time has softened her prejudices. He who sinned has expiated his crime by dying in destitution, and shall he also bequeath his family to obloquy and desertion? No, my soul indignantly replies, for I feel within myself the power to rise above circumstances. I will regain the station from which we fell, and then--O, Annie! a vision of the possible future arises before me, so tinged with hues of heaven, that I scarcely dare to gaze upon it. With you for my good angel, I can hope for every thing for myself, for I have loved you from my boyhood. 
               "The ring I inclosed is one you will remember. It has fulfilled a holy mission once since it has belonged to me; and, therefore, it is worthy to encircle your finger. In that dire extremity of which you have never dreamed-to which I trust in Heaven's mercy you may never be exposed-it was pawned for the bread that prolonged a mother's life. 
               "I do not tell you this as an appeal to your generosity, for we no longer need assistance. Since the death of my father, my family have found a good friend in a distant relative, and by my own energy I have provided for my individual wants. 
               "I send the ring that it may be a sign and a token between us, that the past is not forgotten by you; that the childish love we bore each other has not passed entirely from your memory. If you would give me courage to struggle onward and upward, wear this ring, Annie; it is a trifling favor, but it is of much importance to me. I shall see you when you know it not, and this little circlet gleaming on your hand will be the beacon-light of joy and happiness to a soul trembling between despair and hope. 
               "You dare not refuse me this request, for a true woman's heart beats in your bosom, looks out from your sweet eyes, and speaks in the tones of your thrilling voice. If you do refuse, Annie Selden, I have greatly mistaken you; and at the last great day the loss of a human soul will be laid heavily to your account." 
               When the young girl finished reading this passionate effusion, she was pale and trembling, for her feelings were deeply touched. With sensibility more strongly developed than intellect, though the latter was by no means deficient, every word of this singular epistle vibrated to her inmost soul. It artfully appealed to both sensibility and memory, while the natural vanity of the youthful beauty was flattered to believe that such influence was her's over any human destiny. 
               "Poor fellow," she thought, "he has been made the victim to his father's want of principle. It is not just; every man should stand on the character acquired by himself. He is plunged in poverty, too, while I-I revel in the wealth that should have been his. Years must pass before I can restore any portion of it, except in one way," and a half smile curved her lip as the dangerous thought occurred. 
               "Why not?" she asked herself. "He loves me-ay, loved me before this money was mine; and I used to like him, too. I wonder if he is as handsome as in our dancing-school days. Ma is prejudiced against the family, because she thinks too much of the opinion of the world. The world! it is a great goblin to some people, but I know that money smooths its opinions wonderfully. It can be no harm to wear his ring, at any rate. That pledges me to nothing." 
               She slipped it on her finger, and removed it several times while she thus reflected, and Peggy, who watched each variation of her expressive face in the mirror before which she sat, with keen interest, at length said: 
               "I clar, missie, I almos' 'spects dat's a love-letter, sure nuff. You looks oncommon serious about it." 
               "Pooh, nonsense," said Annie, with a slight blush. "It is from an old friend that I have not seen since I was a little girl." 
               "Hi! den I wonder you haint forget him," said Peggy. "I didn't know dat Miss Annie had ever give a gemplem a ring befo'." 
                
               "Who told you it was from a gentleman, Peggy?" asked her young lady, with some asperity. "I wish you would finish my hair, and not make so many remarks; and I particularly desire that you will bring me no more letters in this clandestine manner." 
               "Hi! well I won't den; only it don't take much gumption to know dat ladies don't sen' dere letters to each other, as dis one come. Pshaw, missie, you can't 'ceive me, but I ain't gwine to tell nothin' 'bout it, so thar!" 
               Annie knew from experience that it was useless to carry on a skirmish of words with her attendant; she had been about her person from her early childhood, and had established a kind of privileged authority, which is not uncommon between the slave-nurse and the child she has had charge of. She contented herself with saying: 
               "Let it be so, Peggy. It is a matter of trifling importance, at any rate, and my mother will learn as much as is necessary about it from myself." 
               The negro had her own impressions on that subject, but she was discreet enough to say nothing more. She observed, however, that when Constance Grey came into the room a few moments afterward to see if her young cousin was ready to go down to breakfast with her, Annie hastily thrust the letter in a portfolio which lay partly open, and with a bright flush on her cheek, hastily completed her morning toilet. 
               As an apology for Annie Selden, we must remind the reader that she was scarcely seventeen, and had been educated principally at a public boarding-school, where worldly accomplishments were carefully attended to, and things of more importance left to take care of themselves; moreover, she had unfortunately been too much spoiled by her mother, to have much respect for her judgment. 
               How would that fond mother's heart have ached could she have understood the evil influence which had been established over her darling? In the giddiness of youth and high spirits, Annie had deviated from the path of candor and sincerity that lay broad before her, to enter a labyrinth of mystery which charmed her imagination, but must inevitably lead to destruction if persevered in. 
               Hapless girl! could you have seen the writer of that impassioned epistle at the moment you were reading it, how amazed would your unsophisticated soul have been at the discrepancy between them! 
               Edward Osborne at that instant sat in a haunt frequented by gamblers, and dissipated men of broken down character, smoking and drinking with them on terms of perfect equality. One of his companions was relating some personal anecdotes of Munroe Edwards, with whom he professed to have been on terms of intimacy, and the circle listened with deep interest. 
               "I say," said a blear-eyed man in shabby genteel attire, who was evidently a habitual drinker, "that chap was a sort of Nick Biddle in his way. Splendid financiering talents he had, to be sure, but he brought 'em to a bad market at last." 
               "Ah, to be sure! To see the magnificent hand that fellow held once, and how completely he was trumped at last," remarked a noted gambler. 
               "Pooh! he showed his game," said Osborne, contemptuously. "Let a man keep his own counsel, and if he has the brains, he may perform operations which will set the world on his track, and yet defy detection. He who would play such a game successfully, must be a Napoleon in a small way. Ah, Wilson, is that you? Glad to see you at last. Come to my room at once, for I wish to see you particularly." 
               The same young man whose future Miss Grey had foretold on the previous night, followed Osborne up stairs into a luxuriously-furnished but very disorderly apartment. Papers lay scattered on the carpet; boots and shoes were found in the most unexpected places, and nearly every chair was encumbered with articles of apparel. 
               Wilson looked around, and said, with a sneering smile: 
               "It is to be hoped that the genius of order is strongly developed in the little Selden, or it will be a scrambling sort of menage you will keep when our schemes are brought to a happy conclusion." 
                
               "Hang order! that is the woman's business, and my dainty Annie will soon find out that she must keep things straight when I'm master. I don't intend to be cross to her though, for she is a sweet little flower, and I really like her very much. Didn't she look divinely last night?" 
               "She is very pretty, to be sure; and the silly old mother is as proud as a peacock of the admiration she excites. I can tell you, Ed, all your advances must be under the rose there, for I merely mentioned your name to the old lady, and her face grew dark as a thunder-cloud. If she had only known that you were for a moment beneath her roof, I verily believe she would have ordered you out at once. Perhaps it is the instinct of the mother-bird when the hawk hovers over her young, that warns her." 
               Osborne laughed bitterly. 
               "If Mrs. Selden possesses a particle of justice, she would be willing to restore to me my birthright, encumbered by her daughter. That house was once my uncle's, and the splendor that surrounds her, was purchased at the expense of the legal heirs. I will have the girl, and with her the fortune, and the old lady can't help herself. Have you found means to send my letter safely to Annie?" 
               "Yes; I bribed her waiting-woman to place it where Miss Selden must see it. She thinks the letter was from me, but that is so much the better, as no suspicion must glance toward you yet awhile. I know Annie will read it, for like all her sex, the little thing has a natural taste for whatever is mysterious." 
               "So much the better," replied Osborne, with a light laugh. "I came the sentimental over her in fine style in that letter. 'Gad! I believe I was almost in earnest when I came toward the conclusion. Such a stake to play for, is enough to make a fellow in earnest, you know." 
               "It seems to have been a laborious affair," said Wilson, pointing to the fragments of torn paper. "How many times did you copy it over, now, before it reached the point of intensity necessary to touch the inexperienced heart you addressed?" 
               "O! only once, for I am strong on the passionate. I have been writing a piece of poetry to her this morning, and the first attempt was not as successful as I wished. I made it out at last, though, and if this don't touch her heart, there is no romance in her verdant little soul. To-night I intend to serenade her; I have just now dispatched to her a bouquet, with a copy of my stanzas in it; and with music, flowers, and poetry, addressed to her lovely self, she would not have the heart of sweet sixteen, if I can not charm it out of her keeping." 
               "Bravo, Ned; you are on the right road. Your handsome face and winning tongue will soon finish the conquest, if you can only gain an interview with the little darling." 
               "Leave me alone for that. I would wager that I will elope with her in less than a month; then mamma may be on her good behavior, or she may emigrate, and leave her darling to my care. I intend to keep open house, Wilson, for my friends-a French cook-the best of wines-and we'll have jolly times, old fellow." 
               "And then that little bill of mine will be cashed," suggested Wilson. 
               "That shall be the first thing attended to, old boy; beside, I never mean to be shabby to the friends who stood by me in my need." 
               "All right. I knew you were a trump." 
               Thus these two unprincipled men conversed, while the contemplated victim sat absorbed in emotion over the touching epistle the heartless young scapegrace had addressed to her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE three ladies sat over their late break fast, and discussed the party of the preceding evening with much animation. Mrs. Selden finally wound up her comment by saying, with a kind of self-gratulating triumph- 
               "It was decidedly the most brilliant party of the season. As it was Annie's debut, I naturally felt anxious that it should surpass any thing that has been accomplished by our set." 
               "Our set," repeated Constance, with a smile. "After all, how small a segment of the great bustling world is that all-important set. No doubt, my dear aunt, you have gained the envy of some, the admiration of others, and the censure of not a few, by this brilliant display which affords you so much satisfaction to look back upon. Annie's first reception was certainly as successful as the most exacting vanity could desire, and she herself seemed the happiest little sprite among the assembled crowd." 
               "O, yes!" said Annie, with animation. "I must thank mamma for affording me an evening of such unalloyed pleasure. The music was exquisite, and the recollection of it makes my feet impatient to fly through such another measure. I wonder, coz, if they dance in heaven. The preachers would be shocked, I know, to hear me ask such a question; but still, it seems to me, the joy of a redeemed and rejuvenated spirit would naturally find its most appropriate expression in wreathing through the mazes of space, to the sound of the heavenly harps, of which we read in the Bible. To remain still, and listen to such strains, would seem to me impossible; beside, we see that activty is the soul of nature. Even the animal-cul in a drop of water are forever in motion-joyous motion, we must think, when we look at their rapid movements. Then the leaves of the trees dance to the music of the breeze; the stars wheel through space in accurate measure, while the music of the spheres fills the vast creation. O, yes! God made us to enjoy the bounding motion of the dance, and no one shall persuade me that it is wrong to join in it." 
               "No one here is likely to make the attempt," said Miss Grey, quietly. "You are so eloquent on the subject, that some one must recently have attacked your favorite amusement." 
               O, no-I only happened to remember our grandfather once said it was a sin to permit children to join in such vanities." 
               "He thought so in his latter years, I know; but I believe that vanity will find a stronghold somewhere in poor human nature, and it seems to me better to let it effervesce occasionally in 'tripping on the light fantastic toe,' than to be like the Pharisee, who thanked God that he was better than other men." 
               "That is a dear, sensible cousin, to talk so rationally on the subject. But why did you not join in the dance, yourself? I did not see you on the floor a single set." 
               "You forget that I superintended the preparations, and then assisted your mother to receive her guests. I was too fully occupied to join in the principal amusement of the evening." 
               "And then you took on yourself the character of the priestess of Fate, and uttered oracles as obscure as those of the Pythoness of Delphic fame. By the way, I must tell you of the effect one of your predictions produced. George Canfield came to me and told me you had thrown sunshine on his heart; the oracle promised him success where his feelings were most interested; and thereupon he presumed almost to make love to me. He spoke as if he had only to ask for my hand, and I would be as easily won as some of the love-lorn heroines of whom we read." 
               "And what reply did you make?" asked Mrs. Selden, with a degree of interest she vainly endeavored to conceal. 
               "I pretended not to understand him; but I can tell you, ma, I am not going to accept him-a little pale, weak-eyed man, with nothing distingue about him." 
               "Of what difference is that, my daughter, if he is rich, of high family, and unexceptionable manners?" 
               "His manners do not happen to be to my taste. I do not care for his money, because I have enough of my own; and as to his family-I ask you to look at his pallid, whity-brown face, compare it with my clear complexion and rosy cheeks, and tell me which is of the best blood. No, no, ma, you do not persuade me to marry a man, because his ancestors have been rich for two or three generations, and set themselves up for aristocracy. I should die of the horrors if I were mewed up in that great old mansion his great-grandfather built, which looks and feels more like a mausoleum for departed stiffness, than the habitation of living and breathing beings, carrying warm human hearts in their bosoms." 
               "Why, how you run on, child!" said her mother. "Such nonsense! As if it will not be better to accept a good man of assured position, than to risk marrying a-a-any body." 
               Mrs. Selden felt that this was a bad climax, but she could find no better, so she contented herself with it. 
               "Anybody!" repeated Annie, with a ringing laugh. "Well, anybody is better than a nobody, which Mr. Canfield decidedly is, in spite of his grand family and solemn old castle. But, a truce to him and his affairs. I wish to speak to you on a subject that is far more interesting to me." 
               "Indeed! what may that be? I listen attentively." 
               "You promised me last night that I might send assistance to Mrs. Osborne. I have been thinking of the most feasible plan of doing so, without wounding her pride. It will be best, I think, to send it anonymously, and take such precautions as will prevent her from suspecting the source from which it comes." 
               "You need not be so very particular about that, I fancy," replied Mrs. Selden, drily. "They will be too glad to get the money, to care much where it comes from. I do not know that I can spare much for that purpose just now, for we have been extravagant of late; and then your first season will require great expense; therefore-" 
               "Therefore, charity-nay, actual justice, must wait on my vanity. No, mother, this must not be. I can do without a great deal you fancy necessary for me. This claim must not be slighted, nor grudgingly acknowledged. I must have a sum of money worth the acceptance of the mother and children." 
               "Well, well, child, I don't intend to be mean, or refuse you what you wish; but you must have patience. Mrs. Osborne's family can not be in immediate want, for Mr. Clifford has taken them under his care, and he is amply able to assist them." 
               Annie laid her hand caressingly on her mother's, and, in her sweetest manner, said- 
               "Shall we fail in our duty, mamma, or play the niggard, because another has been found who would not slight the claims of humanity? Let us also do our part, and not leave to Mr. Clifford the whole burden of aiding the helpless and bereaved family." 
               Mrs. Selden was unable to refuse what was so gracefully asked. 
               "Ah, well, my darling, you always manage to come around me in some way. I have two hundred dollars in my purse, with which I intended purchasing a diamond pin for you; you may take it, if you choose to do without the pin." 
               "O, yes; I am too young, at any rate, to wear fine jewels. Mr. Reginald Clifford, whose taste is undeniable, told me that flowers are far more becoming to my style. So, with Flora's treasures I'll content myself, and send this money to those who need it. Thank you, mother dear, for this gratification;" and she kissed Mrs. Selden affectionately." 
               Constance pressed the small hand of the sweet pleader, and said- 
               "May you ever be thus unselfish, my dearest Annie. Cherish those charming impulses, and you will develop into that brightest ornament of your sex, a benevolent, warm-hearted woman." 
               "I declare, Constance, you will encourage this silly child in all her whims, until, between you, I expect I shall soon have no peace, unless I turn Lady Bountiful myself, and supply the wants of every pauper that comes along," said Mrs. Selden, half petulantly. 
               "O, no, dear aunt. I think it quite necessary to live conformably to one's fortune and station in life; but if all is spent in display and self-indulgence, the great Giver will require a fearful account of the misused prosperity which never brought a smile to the lip of the needy-never caused the heart of the destitute to 'sing for joy.' Wealth, like every thing else, has its responsibilities, and is it not almost divine to be able to follow the example of Him who showers continued blessings upon the earth?" 
               The face of Constance was bright with feeling and intelligence; and Annie, who had never considered her cousin handsome, was struck by its expression, and felt attracted toward her, she knew not how nor why. 
               "Cousin" she said, "you look very interesting this morning. Is it the tasteful toilet you have made-for you really are charmingly dressed-or did some body whisper something in your ear last night, that imparts that expression to your face which I never saw there before? Your bright eyes have what the poet calls a 'vailed luster,' and your lips seem ready to part in a happy smile. Tell me, coz, of whom did you dream last night?" 
               "Of those I best love, Annie, and of you among the number. You are a flattering little elf, and I must really take a look in the mirror, to satisfy myself of the existence of this newly developed charm. Pooh! here are the same brunette complexion, wide mouth, and black eyes, that I beheld there yesterday." 
               "Ah!" whispered Annie, the cheek is brightened by the rose of hope, the eyes are softened by love, and the mouth, which you falsely term wide, is made beautiful by the goodness and truth that find expression through it. O! cousin, make me like yourself, and I shall be worthy to call myself a woman!" 
               Constance affectionately pressed her to her heart, and a silent compact was entered into, which neither dreamed would soon be ruptured by other influences. 
               Impressible, easily swayed by others, Annie was like a child playing heedlessly among flowers, of which the homely and useful attracted not, but the brilliantly-colored, and often poisonous ones, were eagerly grasped, without regard to their qualities. All her impulses were good and noble, and her affections unusually warm; but she was the mere creature of impulse, and in a moment of enthusiastic excitement, could be led to do that which might stamp her life with never-ending regret. To watch over her; to guide her, and form her character to illustrate goodness and truth, was the mental vow of Constance Grey, as she looked down on the lovely face that rested on her bosom, and remembered the many temptations that surrounded the steps of one so perilously endowed with beauty, sensibility, and fortune. 
               While they thus stood, a servant entered with several magnificent bouquets on a waiter, with notes of inquiry; complimentary stanzas, etc., addressed to the fair Annie; and this was but the beginning of the world's adulation to the lovely debutante.
                
               Annie, with the delighted eagerness of a child, looked over them, and hastened to answer the notes. Among the flowers, was a beautifully-arranged bouquet of sweet violets and blush roses; this attracted more attention from the young girl than the more magnificent exotics which accompanied them. On a closer examination, she found a coil of paper twisted up with the stems, and drawing it forth, several stanzas of most impassioned poetry met her eve. 
               They were really very pretty, and she was too new to the world of literature to know how largely the author was indebted for his inspiration to Byron and Moore. The writing betrayed the author to be the same who had penned the impassioned letter of the morning; and Annie fell into a reverie as dangerous as it was fascinating. 
               Young dreamer over the world of romance opening before thee, arouse thyself, or terrible will be the realities to which thou wilt awake! Lift the vail from the future, O inexorable Fate, and show to the trusting heart the abyss she ventures to approach with smiling lip and buoyant step! 
               A summons to the drawing room to receive Mr. Canfield, brought back her soaring fancy to the realities of every-day life; and with a curling lip and impatient step she went down to listen to the dull flattery and unmeaning common-place of her aristocratic admirer. 
               Mr. Canfield was emphatically a man of good family, and nothing more. His ancestors for three generations had been unimpeachably respectable. The founder of the family had received large grants of land under the colonial government; and so vast a fortune had accumulated by the settlement of those lands, and their consequent rise in value, that even the subdivisions it had undergone among the various members of a large family, had left still a fine estate belonging to each one. 
               None of the race had ever been remarkable for talent; none of them had distinguished guished themselves in the service of their country, for the original grants had been obtained by money and management not of the most scrupulous kind; yet the Canfield family, from the hight of their supercilious pride, looked down on the millions who struggle with fate, and win or lose the guerdon of their toil with as great a degree of interest as might have been inspired by the examination of a busy hive of bees, or the industry of a nest of laboring ants. 
               To their cold egotism, of what interest were the joys and sorrows of those who labor that they may live? A vast gulf lay between them, which no electric chord of sympathy spanned. The humanity that bound them in one common brotherhood was silently repudiated, and they lived in their pride of station as beings of a different sphere. 
               The scion of this worthy family was a worthy representative of their prejudices and peculiarities. He religiously believed all the traditions of his family, and had unbounded faith in their inviolable respectability. He despised the life-like pictures of Dickens, because they treated of such low people! Read Bulwer because he was a baronet, and a man of good family. A superb edition of Byron also lay upon his table for no better reason, for he eschewed poetry, or if he read it at all interpreted it so literally that the inspiration of the bard was lost on him. 
               How this man came to fancy a little wayside flower like Annie Selden, was a mystery; but she young, exceedingly fair, and passably rich. The trifles which often influence the fate for good or evil, here unfortunately had their full weight. Annie saw that her mother favored Mr. Canfield's pretensions; that a struggle between them must ensue, if her admirer persisted in his pursuit; and she intuitively felt that he was not one to relinquish a purpose he had once determined on. 
               Mrs. Selden was an intensely worldly woman, and she was dazzled by the idea of her daughter becoming the envy of all the ambitious mammas and aspiring daughters of her circle, by captivating the best match to be found in it. 
               Mrs. Canfield, of Canfield House in town and Canfield Park in the country, sounded so magnificent. Her heart was set on the match, and she believed that persuasion must surely conquer the opposition of so young a girl as Annie. 
               Thus reasoned the mother, while the daughter's heart closed more firmly against all the advances of Mr. Canfield, as she marked the attention bestowed on him by Mrs. Selden, and read something of what was passing in her mind. On this particular morning, she thought him more wearisome than ever, and gladly received his parting bow, which restored to her the freedom to dream in the solitude of her own apartment. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               ALL day Constance had vainly watched for the appearance of Reginald. A strong feeling of disappointment which she would scarcely acknowledge to herself, oppressed her heart, as she saw the sun sinking low in the heavens without bringing him. Late in the afternoon she asked Annie to accompany her in a walk; she gladly consented, and the two soon issued from the house. Annie said: 
               "If you have no particular place in view, coz, I wish you would go with me to the jeweler's. My watch is broken, and I wish to leave it to be repaired." 
               Constance consented, and they turned toward that portion of the city devoted to business. Before they reached the place, Constance was certain that they were followed by a well-dressed man, who had crossed from the opposite side of the street soon after they set out. She hurried on, to reach their place of destination as soon as possible, hoping there to get rid of their unwelcome attendant. 
               The ladies had scarcely entered the shop, when a slender young man, wearing a Spanish cloak, gracefully draped around him, and a fur cap placed carelessly on his redundant dark locks, also stepped in. The keen dark eyes which lighted up a handsome face passed from the features of Miss Grey to those of her young companion, and dwelt there as if fascinated by their beauty. 
               The shop-keeper took out some jewels of a new style, which he wished to display; among them was an exquisitely-fashioned ring, set with fine brilliants. They both admired it, and Annie took off her glove to try its effect on her own finger. The stranger glanced rapidly at the dimpled hand, and a flush of joyful triumph gleamed over his features. The young girl looked up at the moment, caught his eye, and a confused impression of having met him before, though she could not remember where, caused her to blush. He gazed steadily on her for a second, then with a low how, turned and went out. 
               Annie scarcely heard the voluble words of the jeweler in praise of his wares, so absorbed was she in endeavoring to remember when and where she had before encountered those dark piercing eyes, which seemed to look into her very soul during their brief gaze. 
               She abstractedly followed Constance from the door, and walked nearly a square in utter silence. Suddenly she exclaimed: 
               "I have it now! Cousin, did you remark the gentleman who followed us into Mr. T--'s shop?" 
               "Yes," briefly replied Miss Grey; "and I think his doing so decidedly impertinent." 
               "If he were an entire stranger, it would be so, undoubtedly. I now remember who he is, though I was greatly puzzled for awhile to place him." 
               "Who is he, then, Annie? And if he knew you, why did he not speak?" 
               "O, because it has been so long since we met, he probably thought I had forgotten him. I am certain that it must have been Edward Osborne, though he is handsomer than ever." 
               "I scarcely remarked him. I trust he has no intention of endeavoring to thrust his acquaintance on you, my dear, for your mother would be terribly scandalized at such an attempt. Nay, it would render her seriously unhappy." 
               "I should be sorry to cause ma uneasiness, but then she is so terribly prejudiced against this unfortunate family," said Annie, in a tone of vexation. "I can not bear to know that I am the possessor of what they regard as justly their own, and yet be unable to make reparation to them in any manner." 
               "Only do not think of giving yourself to the son by way of reparation, my love, and your mother will permit you to have your own way pretty much in assisting them." 
               Annie half smiled, and her cousin earnestly added: 
               "Your position, my dear Annie, is peculiarly exposed to temptations. You are attractive, very young, and possessed of sufficient fortune to tempt many to feign a passion which even your charms may fail to inspire. With no father, no brother, a mother who indulges you in every fancy, there is no one to stand between you and the deluge of flattery that awaits you but myself; and I have only the power which your affection for me bestows." 
               "I know it, dear Constance. I feel all this, and I mean to act rightly, if I can. No doubt you will often find me a troublesome charge, but I will try and not lose my head, as the French say. I trust I shall never be so lost as to refuse to listen to the voice of my best friend. But really, now, do you think ma is right about the Osbornes? It seems to me, now the father is dead, those who feel kindly toward the widow and her children, should rally around them, and sustain them. I know-that is, I have reason to believe that the son earnestly wishes to regain his former station by his own exertions." 
               "How did you ascertain this, Annie?" asked Constance, turning toward her, but the thick vail that covered her face, baffled her desire to read its expression. 
               While Annie hesitated for a reply, a diversion in her favor occurred by suddenly meeting two of her young lady friends as they turned a corner of the street. They paused a moment to tell her they were charmed with her appearance on the previous night, and would call to-morrow, etc. 
               They were now within a few steps of their own door, and the previous conversation was not renewed. 
               The night was remarkably mild and clear for the season, and toward midnight, Annie was aroused from her slumbers by a strain of sweet music, floating upward from beneath her window. She raised her head, rested her cheek upon her hand, and listened to it with emotion. She intuitively divined the performer, and again the dark eyes of Edward Osborne seemed gazing into her own. 
               Had she only known that to fortify himself against the chill air of night, he had taken what he elegantly called a "stunner" before he left the convivial party, with whom the evening had been spent, how would she have been disenchanted! 
               As it was, the music entered her soul. In her dreams, the strain was echoed long after it had ceased, and Edward Osborne, as the handsome, noble, and persecuted hero, forsaken of Fortune, and buffeted by Fate, flitted through scenes in which she upheld his courage, and pointed him to the goal he strove to attain. 
               When she awoke on the following morning, she found a bouquet exactly similar to the one she had received from him the preceding day, lying on her dressing-table. 
               On questioning Peggy, she said it had been left a few moments before by a messenger who was an entire stranger to her. Annie soon completed her toilet, and dismissed the woman. Then she took the before neglected flowers, and examining them carefully, found, as she anticipated, a scroll concealed among them, which she hastened to read with a bright smile and a crimsoning cheek. 
               "Thanks, beautiful Annie, for the encouragement you have deigned to give me. Upon your fair hand I beheld the symbol of hope, and with difficulty I restrained myself from kneeling before you, and thanking you for your angelic goodness. 
               "Did no voice whisper to your soul the identity of him who walked in the footprints of an angel yesterday afternoon? and who afterward found his reward in gaining a view of her enchanting face-a glance from her beaming eyes. 
               "Exquisite girl, I adore you! You loved me as a child, Annie, and I appeal to the tender memory of that innocent affection, to regain a place in your heart. Give me the right to struggle for you, peerless Annie, and I can dare any thing-hope for every thing! 
               "I am aware that your mother is violently prejudiced against me and mine, yet is it just? I also know that the darling wish of her heart is to give you, in all your tender beauty, to that cold image of humanity, George Canfield. Shall this be, rose of my destiny! pearl among fair women! while I offer you the love of a glowing heart? 
               "Annie, visit my mother, I implore you. In her present desolation, a visit from one she loved as a child, will be as a bright stream of sunshine upon her crushed heart. My sister will welcome you with sincere affection, for no bitterness has ever mingled with her early fondness for you on account of the singular tenor of my uncle's will, and the consequent disappointment to herself of being deprived of the fortune she once anticipated inheriting from him. 
               "Excuse me for touching on such delicate ground, but this assurance seems rendered necessary by the aversion your mother has shown to permit you to associate with any member of my unhappy family. Is it not enough that the ban of society is placed upon us, but must the glance of friendship also grow cold? 
               "If you are the creature of feeling and sensibility I deem you, this appeal will not be in vain. See those who are dear to me, and I will only ask permission to worship you as some bright star set far in the heavens above me, whose sweet light will enter my soul to purify, to elevate, to encourage. 
               "I shall see you again, angel spirit of my darkened life, and in your eyes I will seek permission to address you, or I shall behold in them the doom of the despairing soul, when the solemn words, 'lost, lost, lost,' boom over the surging waves of eternity's vast ocean." 
               Annie read these words with tremulous eagerness, and every generous impulse of her nature was aroused in favor of their author. Alas! in that inexperienced heart was already excited a deep and tender interest in the eloquent, fatally gifted writer. She beheld him in fancy, rescued through her means from the bitter evils of poverty and pride which are so acutely felt by the children of luxury, suddenly cast down from their high estate, to toil for their daily bread. 
               Conscience whispered that this clandestine correspondence was wrong, and she half resolved to reveal it to her cousin. Then she reflected that Constance was rigid in her notions of duty; she might consider it necessary to inform her mother; and she shrunk from the scene that must ensue if Mrs. Selden learned that Edward Osborne had dared to address her. 
               It was Sunday, and according to her invariable variable custom, Annie prepared to attend church. As the carriage drove up to the door of the sacred edifice, the same cloaked figure which had followed her on the preceding evening, stood leaning against a pillar, apparently absorbed in deep thought. She thought he looked subdued and melancholy, and as she ascended the steps, his features brightened with a smile, and he vanished within. 
               When the bustle of seating themselves was over, Annie looked around, and placed in one of the most conspicuous pews on the left side of the pulpit, was Osborne, in such a position as to command a perfect view of the seat she occupied. Once their eyes met, and she was painfully conscious of blushing deeply; but when the beautiful ritual of the Episcopal service commenced, Osborne opened a prayer-book, and seemed completely absorbed in his devotions. 
               It is to be feared that the exercises of that day were not of much benefit to the young heiress. Her thoughts wandered often, in spite of her efforts to confine them to the words of the speaker. The text was unfortunately appropriate to the subject of her reflections. It was, "Render unto Caesar the things which are Csar's;" and the manner of treating it by the reverend expounder, only deepened the conviction in her own mind, that she wronged those who had better claims upon her fortune than she possessed. 
               With this feeling strong in her mind, she arose to leave the house. As she turned toward the pew door, Osborne stood within a few feet of her, earnestly regarding her. She smiled faintly, half extended her hand in the impulse of the moment, then withdrew it, crimsoning deeply, and passed out. 
               Mr. Canfield met her at the entrance, and escorted her to the carriage. She scarcely replied to his polite inquiries after her health, so intent was she in endeavoring to obtain another glimpse of the face which had so intensely interested her. As the carriage was driven away, she looked back, and again met those dark, melancholy eyes fixed upon her, with an emotion which sent the blood in a deep blush to her cheek. 
               "I wonder who that handsome young man is, who sat in the Seymours' pew," said Mrs. Selden. "He seemed deeply interested in the service, which is rather uncommon for young men of his appearance." 
               "I remarked him," replied Constance, drily. "I wonder if he was really absorbed in the glories of heaven, or secretly thinking of the beauties of earth? Many things are done for effect, even in church." 
               "You have no right to judge him so harshly, I am sure," said Annie, with animation; then, fearing that her cousin might gain a clue to her feelings if she said more, she relapsed into silence; but her busy fancy was weaving a tissue of romance as brilliant as ever deluded the heart of a dreaming mortal. 
               The following morning brought the usual bouquet, with a copy of beautiful verses entitled "Devotion." This continued for many days, with a note and poem alternately, both breathing the most impassioned love, until the imprudent dreamer began to fear that she had compromised herself, by this passive encouragement, too far to retract with honor. 
               During this time, she never left the house without finding Osborne on her path-sometimes looking as if existence were a burden to him; again seeming to gain new life from a glance of her eyes. 
               It is not strange that, although they had not yet spoken together, the voice of the young girl's heart began to be loudly heard. Predisposed in his favor by the memory of the past; by the belief that he adored her; annoyed by her mother's injudicious efforts to thrust the attentions of Mr. Canfield upon her, Annie Selden stood on the brink of a precipice, the darkness of which who shall fathom? 
               Many a young and trusting heart has been as sadly wrecked by too great self-reliance; by withholding confidence where it was due, and failing to seek the guidance of that experience which might have pointed out the breakers that threaten the bark of the young and heedless. Alas! when shattered and broken in the conflict, can consolation be found in that repentance which ever comes too late? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE morning broke chill and cold in the old Manor, and as the dim, gray light struggled into the room, Reginald started up, and looked confusedly around him. Gradually the recollection of the strange scene of the preceding night came vividly before him, and he turned to his father with a feeling of self-reproach, that he had permitted himself to sleep, while he might have needed his attention. 
               Mr. Clifford lay so still, and looked so pale, that for a moment he fancied the last great change had passed over him; but in bending down close to his face, he found that a faint and irregular respiration still gave assurance that the mysterious and subtile tenant yet lingered in the worn frame. Reginald had witnessed death many times, and he knew that its impress was upon that calm brow-its sublime change gradually settling over those beloved features. 
               He yearned inexpressibly for a word, a last look, from the dimming eyes, before they were forever closed; and he placed his hand gently upon that of the dying man, and called on him to speak to him once more. 
               By this time the sun was rising, and a few bright rays streamed into the gloomy room, through the crevices in the shutters. Exactly opposite the bed was a large window, in the eastern wall of the apartment, and through a round hole in the closed blind a long line of brilliant light passed into the room, traversed the bed, and fell upon the white wall beyond. As if aroused to life by the warm gleam, Mr. Clifford slowly unclosed his eyes, fixed them upon the lighted wall, and with difficulty raising his hand, said in feeble tones- 
               "See! she comes-she fails me not! My love-my lost one! Ah! it is for the last time; my summons has at last arrived." 
               Reginald's eyes followed the motion of that feeble hand, and there, upon the space a moment before blank, was distinctly mirrored the well-remembered form of his mother! 
               For an instant he thought his fancy played him a trick-that this was a mere optical illusion. He rubbed his eyes, and looked again. There it still was, in all the serene beauty which once invested her with a charm which had appeared to his childish heart as something holy. In the bewilderment of the moment, he had no time for thought: he could only gaze upon the fair image, and see the effect it produced upon his father. 
               Mr. Clifford started up, raised his arms toward the phantom, and as it seemed gradually to fade away, he exclaimed- 
               "I come! I come!" and fell back a corpse. 
               Shocked, stunned by the suddenness of the catastrophe, Reginald stood for an instant like one paralyzed: then he applied himself with desperate energy to bring back life to that form, which might never more awake to the dreariness of his sorrowful existence. 
               Away, away from the darkened room, and worn-out frame, the ransomed spirit soared through bright fields of ether, ministered to, sustained by angel messengers, sent to welcome it to the homes of the blessed. Seek not to bring it back, O son of earth, for beyond all power of language to depict, is the glorious change! 
               At length, convinced that his efforts were vain, Reginald desisted. Then, with unnatural composure, he straightened the limbs, and prepared to perform the last sad duties to the beloved clay. 
               While thus employed, a strain of music, solemn and beautiful, rolled through the old building, and a morning hymn arose in majestic tones upon the clear autumn air. It powerfully affected him; for the well-remembered melody seemed the glad paean of his mother's spirit over the reunion of long severed souls. He knew it was Barbara Osborne playing the old music which had once been hers, and he almost forgave her the arts he believed she had practiced on his father, as he listened to the tones of her clear voice, and remembered that she bore upon her features the living likeness of the departed Ida, 
               The hymn ceased, and a few moments afterward, a light tap upon the door was heard. Reginald arose and unclosed it; Barbara stood before him with an expression of startled surprise upon her features. She hurriedly said: 
               "I-I did not know that you remained last night, Mr. Clifford, or I should not have intruded. May I inquire how your father seems this morning?" 
               "Come in and see," said the young man, with such stern emphasis, that she involuntarily obeyed him. She advanced close to the bedside, and took the chill and rapidly stiffening hand in her own, before she seemed to comprehend what had occurred. Then her cheek grew pale as that of the dead, and for a brief moment she seemed to recoil from the evidence of mortality before her. Overcoming this emotion, she calmly said- 
               "I did not think the summons would arrive so soon." 
               "Nor would it, but for your ministrations," replied Reginald, with bitterness. "You have played upon his excited imagination, and kept the feeble mind in such continued agitation and expectation, since you have been with him, that the worn-out frame could not bear the unnatural tension. Barbara Osborne, do you feel no remorse, as this conviction comes to your heart?" 
               Barbara's usual fire seemeed to have deserted her. She thoughtfully replied, as she steadily gazed on the composed features of the dead- 
               "Remorse? Why should I feel it, even if your accusation be true? Look at the expression upon that face: it is almost as clear and beautiful as that of childhood. Is it not an earnest of the joy with which the soul departed from its house of clay? I saw, when we came hither, that your father was not long for this world; but, unlike you, my judgment told me that the brief remnant of his existence could be rendered more endurable, by indulging the harmless hallucination under which he labored. I have only done this; then wherefore attach blame to me?" 
               "Had you been satisfied with doing that alone, I might have refused to censure you; but you strove to increase this delusion-for what purpose is best known to yourself. Only this morning, in the last moment of his existence, the image of my departed mother flitted as a shadow over yonder wall, and vanished even as life passed from his frame. This I now know was a delusion contrived by you; but at the moment, I was too much bewildered to comprehend how the effect was produced." 
               Barbara listened with a disdainful smile; and her countenance assumed its haughtiest and most defiant expression. She coldly asked- 
               "Have you then fathomed the mystery?" 
               In reply, Clifford opened the escrutoire, took from a drawer the picture of his mother, which had been sacredly concealed from the eye of the careless gazer, and unclosing the frame in which it was kept, he held it toward his companion. 
               "You have borrowed this picture, Miss Osborne, and obtained a copy of it. Am I not right?" 
               Reginald regarded her scrutinizingly, and he detected a slight change in her expression, which confirmed him in his conjecture. 
               She merely asked, "For what purpose should I do this?" 
               "I will show you. See," he continued, approaching the shutter through which the sunbeams still gleamed, lighting up the tiny particles floating in the atmosphere with red and violet rays-"I am familiar with the anecdote of West, who, when a boy, lay upon a sick bed, haunted by phantoms which at certain hours passed across the wall of his room. He discovered a knot-hole in the shutter similar to the one you have contrived here, and a species of magic lantern was formed by the figures in the street passing before it, when the sun shone in that direction. See how easily I have detected the trick that imposed on the poor old man who so readily became the dupe of one he loved." 
               Barbara's face scarcely changed as he made this revelation. She simply asked- 
               "Why should I have done this?" 
               "That is best known to yourself; when I look into my father's affairs, perhaps I may gain some enlightenment on the subject. But know, true daughter of Eve, that all your maneuvering might have been spared, and in an honorable and straightforward manner you might have gained as much from the noble generosity of him who regarded you almost as his daughter. Nor would I have refused ample assistance to those who are of my mother's blood; and this poor clay might have been permitted to claim a few more days or months of existence." 
                
               These words seemed to arouse the dormant spirit of the girl. 
               "What matters it?" she bitterly asked, while a spot of crimson glowed on her usually pale cheek. "He prayed for death as the deliverer, and it came-but not by my agency, as you would insinuate. Ay-look into your father's affairs, Reginald Clifford, and learn that I have not been willing to be a dependent on your bounty. From him, I was willing to receive what will suffice to save me and mine from want; and you dare not blame me for the efforts which enabled me to preserve yonder helpless woman and child from such suffering as you in your pampered pride never dreamed of. I have known it-have endured it with them, and felt how helpless I was to gain even bread for them honestly." 
               There was a degree of earnestness and passion in her tones that touched Reginald, in spite of his efforts to view her as a mere scheming adventurer. He felt that there was at least reality and truth in her love for her family. He gently said- 
               "I ratify the gift, Miss Osborne, let it be what it may. I will never dispute a bequest made by my father, however fraudulently it may have been obtained." 
               "Fraud!" repeated Barbara, now pale with anger. "How dare you accuse me of such guilt? Did I not make myself dear to your father's lonely heart-necessary to his last hours? And yet the bequest his affection bestowed, you stamp as the wages of iniquity. Even this phantom, whose origin you think you have so cleverly discovered, was simply a device of my own to give him pleasure. The day was joyful to him when he fancied that his departed wife blessed his waking hour by her presence. What harm could there be in that?" 
               If that was your only object, perhaps it was excusable: but you grow excited. By the bed of death, let us not use words we may hereafter bitterly regret. If you have wronged him, I forgive you; and now, I wish to be alone." 
               Barbara approached the door. She paused when she reached it, and said, in a calmer tone- 
               "And I also forgive you for your bitter words and unkind suspicions. I will walk to the village, and send you such assistance as you need. Yes, I can pardon your hard feelings, for the sake of him who lies there." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE funeral of Mr. Clifford was quiet, and no one attended it but the bereaved son, Mrs. Osborne's family, and a few persons from the neighboring village, who were attracted more by curiosity than any other feeling. 
               The family vault was situated in a romantic dell, about half a mile from the house, and there, beside the wife he had so long mourned, the mortal remains of Mr. Clifford at last reposed in peace. 
               A painful duty yet remained to Reginald before he could leave the desolate house, and return to his own home. He must examine his father's papers, and take possession of the contents of the escrutoire. It was late in the evening when he returned to the manor, oppressed with a weight of gloom which seemed a presage of deeper sorrow than even the loss of his father occasioned. 
               Declining Mrs. Osborne's invitation to enter her portion of the house, he shut himself up in the eastern room, and paced the floor in darkness for several hours, before he could summon courage to proceed to the business before him. Supper was sent in to him by Barbara, but he declined every thing except a cup of tea; and by his command, the servant took away with her the light she had brought. 
               A few fading embers struggled for life in the rusty grate, and from these he at length lighted a fire; for, as the night waned, the air became uncomfortably cold. 
               As the pleasant glow spread through the apartment, the leaden heaviness that oppressed him seemed to evaporate with the darkness. Death-the lonely horror of the charnel house-passed from his imagination, and in its place stood the image of life beyond the the tomb. The angel of death stood before him no longer as a gloomy phantom, but radiant with the glow of Paradise. The perturbed pulses ceased their rapid beat; the wounded heart felt the warm tide of faith and hope, imparting renewed courage to struggle on to the end, be the path thorny or smooth; and Reginald bent his head and prayed fervently, for the first time since he stood beside his mother's knee, and repeated the childish invocations she had taught him. 
               Lighting the lamp, he then proceeded to the execution of the duty before him. Unclosing the escrutoire, he instituted a thorough examination of all the papers he found there; but to his great annoyance and surprise, there was not a trace of the deeds which were just now so all-important to him. Every secret cranny was explored without success, and morning found the pale watcher, haggard and worn out, with his earnest gaze fastened on the open page of a letter, evidently written by Mr. Clifford only a few days before. He had found it carefully hidden in the deepest recess of the old cabinet, and its revelations were, under present circumstances, of rather a startling character. It ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "My Son: A voice from another sphere has revealed to me that you are in imminent danger of ruin in this world, and also in the one to come, from excessive self-indulgence. I have communed with myself-I have asked guidance from Heaven-to do that which is right, and I have been answered. 
                           "I have been impelled by an unseen but resistless influence to do that which will inflict mortification upon you, and entail the necessity of a conflict with the hard realities of life. O! my son, in the struggle to regain what you now believe your own, blame me not for the course I have pursued, and believe that my regard for your best interests impelled me to it. 
                           "We are commanded not to let our talents lie buried-imperative is that command to one endowed as you are. No longer must you be the slothful son of Fortune, but a toiler after that fame which brings with it the reward of wealth and influence. At the command of a voice I dare not disobey, I have placed your inheritance beyond your reach, until Heaven, in its own hour and time, shall reveal to you where the secret lies hidden, which will enable you to reclaim it. 
                           "That this will happen, be assured; but not before the purpose of that higher intelligence which commanded it has been fulfilled in rescuing you from the slothfulness which is consuming your youth, and leading you into the syren paths of dissipation, for the purpose of dispelling the ennui which is the offspring of idleness, and want of proper occupation for those faculties which we are assured God has made but a little lower than those of the angels. 
                           "You will find with this letter the documents which will reveal to you that I have drawn the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars from Messrs M--, of Philadelphia, for which I have mortgaged the annual income of my property, situated on B-- square, in Alexandria, for the term of five years. From them you will draw three hundred dollars per annum during that time, and that will amply suffice to supply your actual wants. The luxuries, the vanities of life, you must toil for yourself; and I feel assured that the struggle will be made, the victory over yourself be won, before the term of probation has ceased. 
                           "The property on which I reside is entailed for two generations, and you can not part from it, even if you could find it in your heart to suffer the home of your forefathers, the burial-place of your parents, to pass into the possession of strangers. 
                           "I shall now proceed to inform you of the disposition of the money I have thus obtained. 
                           "On Mrs. Osborne and her children I have settled five thousand dollars, the remaining twenty thousand I have put in a secure place, where thieves are not likely to break in and steal; and where it will not be found before the hour and the time arrive. When it does roll around, the way will be made plain to you for, the spirits of the air, sent on their errands of mercy to men, are not likely to forget the duty delegated to them. 
                           "Blame me not, I again conjure you, my son, for the seeming harshness of this proceeding. It is for your everlasting good; but I have wrestled long with myself before I could resolve to deprive you of the means to pursue the life you have so long reveled in. With yearnings of tenderness which words may never express, I do that which will give you present pain, only to brighten into everlasting happiness in the future. Learn abstinence-endure privations-battle with life, and come forth a true man, with the seal of the Great Master on your brow. Then, purified, strengthened, by the ordeal, you will learn to 'weep with those who weep,' for the crust of pride and selfishness, engendered inevitably by uninterrupted prosperity, will melt from your soul when you enter the great arena of life, and bear the burden equally with your fellow-men. 
                           "And now, to the Father of all mercies, my beloved Reginald, I commend you. Even as I write, the spirit of your angel-mother floats around me, and whispers the assurance that through suffering you will be saved from the evils that menace you. This fiery ordeal I bequeath to you at her command, and that you may pass through it unscathed, is my earnest prayer-my sincere belief. 
                           
                              "REGINALD CLIFFORD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This singular letter was perused many times before Reginald fully comprehended it. It bore upon itself the impress of the writer's shattered intellect, and when all the truth stood clearly before him, the son struggled against the murmurs that arose in his soul. His father believed he was acting for his ultimate advantage, and he would not, even in thought, throw a reproach upon his memory. 
               Ah! if Mr. Clifford could only have known the true position of his son, the means of contesting this important suit would then have been placed within his reach, and the hiding place of this large sum of money revealed. Now, no resource seemed before him but to relinquish his patrimony, or battle for it through years of wearisome and anxious litigation, with no certainty as to the ultimate result. 
               The place in which the money was concealed must be found; and again Reginald sought for some clue, however faint, which could lead him in his search. None such was gained; and exhausted with long watching, he at length threw himself on the bed, and slept heavily for several hours. 
               When he awoke, the broad light of day streamed into the room; the fire had been replenished, and on a small table before it, was placed a neatly served breakfast. A small brass trivet was placed in front of the grate, and on it the coffee-pot rested, awaiting his leisure to quaff the reviving draught it contained. 
               Clifford felt grateful for the refreshment he so much needed, and after partaking of it, he felt nerved to renew the fruitless search of the preceding night. No result followed, save weariness and despair. He sat, absorbed in gloomy reflections, more than an hour; then suddenly arising with a half-defined purpose in his mind, he strode rapidly toward the apartment of Mrs. Osborne, and demanded admittance. Harry opened the door, and looking earnestly in his face, said: 
               "You are no longer angry with us, Mr. Clifford? You come to see us of your own will. O! I am so glad!" 
               Reginald looked down at the frail little figure, with its transparent complexion and limpid eyes, and a strong feeling of compassion filled his heart. He placed his hand upon his waving hair, and gently said: 
               "I never was angry with you, my child. You are but the innocent agent of another, and should, therefore, be held blameless. Christ said, 'Suffer little children to come unto me,' but I am afraid the power you possess is derived from a much more questionable source." 
               The child looked anxiously at him, and there was genuine humility in the tone in which he said: 
               "I say my prayers every night. Barbara taught me; and she says it is because I am good that the spirits come at my call." 
               At that moment Barbara came in. She seated herself gravely and coldly, after saluting Clifford, and seemed to wait for him to inform her of the cause of his visit. 
               Taking several papers from his pocket, he briefly said: 
               "I came, Miss Osborne, to transfer to you the settlement made by my late father, which entitles you and your mother to the sum of five thousand dollars from his estate." 
               Barbara silently held out her hand, while an expression of disappointment, she vainly endeavored to conceal, flitted over her features. In an instant she had recovered her usual composure, but Reginald had seen, and rightly interpreted it. He went on- 
               "You, doubtless, expected a larger bequest, as you are probably aware that my father had recently raised a large sum of money by mortgaging the income from the property he be lieved his own, for the ensuing five years." Barbara proudly replied: 
               "You have no right to infer that I am disappointed in the amount bequeathed to me. It is much more than I had any claim to. Neither do I understand your reference to the property your father believed his own. He surely understood the right of tenure to his own estate." 
               "Until within a few days past, no doubt existed on the subject. When I arrived here on the night of his decease. I came to inform him of the institution of a suit which involves his right to the only valuable property he possessed. I could not communicate it to him, for you know the condition in which I found him. I have vainly sought among his effects for the deeds which would establish our just rights; and the money which might have enabled me to prosecute my claims successfully, has been concealed by my father, and no clue left by which I can recover it." 
               While he was speaking, Barbara averted her face, for she felt the blood retreating to her heart. How bitterly she was disappointed, she alone knew. By the skillful use of her ventriloqual powers, she had kept up her twilight communications with Mr. Clifford; and at her instigations he had been wrought on to bequeath years of poverty to his son. By doing this, she confidently expected to inherit the whole amount obtained by the mortgage, and thus, by a bold stroke, obtain the independence she so earnestly coveted. 
               The only end gained was perplexity and distress to the son of him who had given her shelter and assistance, when she most sorely needed them. She appreciated the generosity of Reginald in bestowing on her the sum he could so easily have withheld in the belief that his father's mind was not in a same condition when the deed was executed. She understood his position fully, yet she could not make up her mind to relinquish the little her arts had gained. Good impulses often swayed the mind of this unhappy girl, but she struggled against them. In the bitterness of her feelings toward that world whose darkest side had been turned toward her, she defied its opinions, and resolved to pursue the course marked out by herself, reckless if the good and pure condemned. She said nothing, and Clifford continued- 
               "I shall leave the manor to-day, Miss Osborne, but I wish you to occupy your present abode as long as you may desire to do so. This property is so situated that I can not part from it, even if I wished it, and I shall be happy if it can afford a home to those who were objects of interest to my father." 
               "Thank you; but now our old friend is gone, the place will be so lonely that I think my mother will wish to remove-whither, I know not. I will let you know when our arrangements are decided on, that you may send some one to take charge of the place." 
               After a slight pause, she asked: 
               "What is your purpose in reference to this concealed treasure? Can no clue to it possibly be found?" 
               "None. I have thoroughly searched every portion of the east room; have sounded the floor and walls in every direction, without success. From the tenor of my father's last letter, a clue must exist somewhere; but it has been so carefully concealed, that I must leave time and chance to develop the mystery, unless"-- 
               He paused as if unwilling to proceed. Barbara understood his embarrassment, and said: 
               "Unless you can obtain information through the supernatural powers of Harry? Are you willing to make such an appeal?" 
               "If there be truth-reality, in a thing so far beyond the limits of earthly comprehension. Tell me, Barbara, on the truth and honor of woman, is not this child a mere tool in your hands? Can there be any thing more than the trick of the necromancer in what I beheld in this room?" 
               "It was not the offspring of fraud, I do most solemnly assure you," replied Barbara, impressively. "As there is a Heaven above us, so surely has this power been bestowed on Harry, by influences no earth-born spirit may comprehend. How, or whence it is, derived I know no more than yourself." 
               There was earnestness and truth in her accent, and in spite of his natural incredulity, Reginald was impressed by it. 
               "Come hither, Harry," he said. "Wave your serpent wand, and summon"-- 
               He stopped pale and cold, with the hair rising upon his head, and a cold dew bursting from his brow. It seemed as if some invisible presence hovered around him, and forbade the utterance of the words that trembled on his lips. He shudderingly exclaimed: 
               "No, no! I dare not summon the freed spirit back to the sordid cares of earth! Shall the companion of angels, at my bidding, return again to the scene of his earthly sufferings? No, no! It seems to me an inexpiable sin to summon the spirit of the departed, under any pretext whatever. No, boy; if there be reality in your pretensions, I abjure their use. God ruleth all things; and if 'tis his will that I shall issue triumphantly from my trials, He will bring it about in his own good time." 
               As he finished speaking, a single rap, loud, startling, and distinct, seemed to rise from beneath his feet. The child laughed merrily, as he looked up into his face, and said: 
               "I have summoned my spirit while you talked. What shall it do for you, Mr. Clifford?" 
               "Nothing, Harry. I refuse such supernatural interposition in my affairs. Yet stay; there lies the Bible; let it again speak to me, and, this time, of hope and consolation, if it can do so." 
               The book was lying open on the table, and at the command of the child, the leaves fluttered over as if fanned by a strong breeze. As they again settled down, Reginald cast his eyes on the page, and read: 
               "'Whoso keepeth the fig tree, shall eat of the fruit thereof; so he that waiteth on his Master shall be honored.'" 
               Clifford bowed his head, as if in submission to the decree; and after a brief pause, arose to take his leave. 
               "If I have spoken harshly to you, Miss Osborne," he gravely said, "I pray you to pardon me. It has been done under strong excitement of feeling, and with impressions that perhaps have done you some wrong. Our paths will probably no more cross each other; but should you need a friend, apply to me, with the assured confidence that I will not forget you are of my mother's blood." 
               "Thank you," replied Barbara, briefly. "It is not likely that I shall trouble you. We possess little in common, and hereafter we will scarcely seek each other out." 
               "Good bye, Mr. Clifford," said the boy, placing his small hand in his. The touch of the slender fingers was so cold, that Reginald almost started as they came in contact with his own. He lifted the child in his arms, regarded him attentively, and as he again placed him on the floor, Reginald impressively said to Barbara: 
               "You are subjecting this fragile creature to an ordeal he has not strength to bear. A few more months of such unnatural excitement, and he will probably join the spirit-choir he now so mysteriously invokes." 
               Clifford left the room, and Barbara tremulously drew Harry toward her. She passionately kissed him; she clasped the chilled hands in her own, until renewed warmth came to them, while she hurriedly asked: 
               "Are you ill, Harry? Do the spirits frighten you, my darling?" 
               "O, no, sister. I lie awake in the night and whisper a summons to them; and do you know, Barbara, they come at my lightest wish? I can feel the flutter of their wings above me, but I do not let them rap, lest they should disturb mother." 
               "My love, you only feel the night wind blowing upon you. You must sleep more soundly, Harry; I will give you a composing draught. You must promise me not to summon the spirits, except when sister wishes yon to do so. It will make me seriously unhappy if you disobey me in this." 
               "O, I will promise that, sister, for they tell me strange things sometimes-things I don't like to hear about. I would much rather sleep when darkness is around me, but sometimes I can't." 
               Barbara regarded him almost with fear, herself. 
               "Why, Harry, what can the spirits reveal to you that you do not like?" she asked. 
               "What I am not permitted to tell you or any living being," replied the boy, mysteriously. "They are not evil things, Barbara, or I would not believe them to be angel spirits." 
               Barbara clasped him in her arms more closely than before, while a sharp pang contracted her heart. 
               "You but dream, my precious one. I have been the means of opening a world to you which I may not enter; whose phantoms I may not exorcise; and if they bring evil to you, I shall never forgive myself. You are well, Harry? You feel strong?" 
               "O, yes," he replied, smiling brightly. "And I am happy, too, dear sister. I no longer feel the want of a playfellow, as I did in the old cottage. I can press my fingers on my eyes and see bright-winded creatures, that talk with me as long as I wish." 
               The girl regarded him with amazement, not unmingled with awe. On his fair features was the angelic repose of a seraph; in his expressive face something akin to the inspiration of the prophet, and her fears for his health were forgotten in her strong conviction that he was one set apart for a peculiar destiny. 
               It may seem strange that Barbara was so completely the controling spirit of her mother's home; but since the death of her husband, Mrs. Osborne had sunk into a state of helplessness, bordering on imbecility. She had never possessed much strength, either of mind or body, and the privations she had endured, completely wrecked the little she claimed. To Barbara, she looked as a helpless child demands the protection of its parents; and deserted by her brother, the young girl felt the heavy responsibility of the charge that devolved on her. In the hope of hearing from Edward, she delayed their removal from the manor week after week, until the last month of autumn arrived, and she began to feel that they must soon leave for the city, or take up their residence there for the winter. 
               One dreary evening she sat beside the window of the old house, and watched the darkness gradually creeping as a vail over the scene without. The cold, gray atmosphere invested every thing with its somber coloring; the early frosts had stripped the trees of their foliage, and their gray branches clashed mournfully together in the sighing wind, which moaned and whistled through the empty chambers of the mansion, as if spirits, indeed, walked at large, and wailed over its desolation. The old negress who had been hired as their attendant, crooned a ditty in the yard, where she was getting wood, the burden of which was, "O, when shall I see Jesus;" Mrs. Osborne sat slumbering in her usual chair, with Harry at her feet, his hands clasped over his eyes, communing with his imaginary visitors. 
               All the dreariness of the scene entered the soul of her who sat there in utter loneliness, with a yearning for suitable companionship natural to her age, and necessary to one of her brilliant intellect and subtile appreciation of character. 
               To dazzle, to astonish, to sway the minds of others, was her firm resolve. To gain a position to which the prestige of wealth should also lend its splendor, she was capable of attempting any thing short of actual crime. The life she now led, since it had no further object, was becoming loathsome to her. She must go forth into the busy world; she would sacrifice the strong pride of her nature, and make the supernatural gifts of her young brother the avenue to wealth. That gained, she believed her upward course secure. 
               The bequest of Mr. Clifford afforded her the means of removal, and there was no one to dispute her will; her brother seemed utterly to have deserted them, and she would wait no longer; to-morrow she would set about her preparations for departure. As she thus mused, darkness nearly vailed the scene without, yet still her eyes were fixed unconsciously upon the swaying branches of the trees. 
               Suddenly she heard the tramp of a horse rapidly ridden. It stopped at the gate, and the rider dismounted and entered the yard. The dim outline of a figure, muffled in a large cloak, was visible, and something in the air of the visitor recalled her brother, though she now scarcely hoped it could be Edward. 
               With a beating heart, Barbara arose, and advanced to the door; before she reached it, it unclosed, and Edward Osborne, indeed, stood before her, strong in health, and seemingly in gay spirits. As if he had seen her only the day before, he said: 
               "How are you, Bab? Thought I had run off, I dare say, but I had no such idea. I have kept an eye on you all the time, though I considered it best to leave you to manage the old fellow yourself; after his death, I was too busy with my own affairs to look after yours much." 
               At the sound of his voice, Mrs. Osborne aroused herself, and feebly welcomed her son, at the same time uttering such a volume of querulous reproaches at his desertion, that his patience was soon exhausted. He suddenly exclaimed: 
               "Stop that, will you, old lady? I didn't come here to be scolded, and I am not going to stand it. I've been working for you as well as myself, as you will soon learn; so just be quiet, will you, while I hold a chat with Barbara? Well, Hal, I am glad to see your puny little white face again. I declare, I believe you are getting as thin as a spirit yourself." 
               "Hush, brother!" said Harry, gravely; "your loud voice has driven them all away." 
               "Glad of it, boy. I don't want any of them here just now. Well, Bab, so the old file is off to the other country, and, after all, only left you a pitiful five thousand. Must say it was a shabby bequest from a man of his means; but it's something gained. Can you lay your hand on the pile at once, or is it tied up with some cursed security?" 
               "It is ours to do as we please with, Edward," replied Barbara. "But I wish you would speak of the dead more respectfully." 
               "Afraid the spirits are listening, ha! and will report us in the heavenly halls? A likely story, truly! Tell me, what is this about Harry having the spirit of divination? I only hope 'tis true, for I wish to put his powers to some use." 
               "In what manner?" asked Barbara, evading a reply to the question. 
               "Come hither, and I will tell you." 
               Osborne led the way to a deep recess before the window furthest from his mother's chair, and in a low voice conversed long and earnestly with Barbara. She seemed to remonstrate faintly, but her objections were finally overruled, for she said- 
               "Since so much is to be gained, I will do it; but I can not think it will be right." 
               "Right!" repeated Osborne, disdainfully. "Our rights have been invaded long enough in all conscience, and I only employ an innocent stratagem to get back our own. I tell you, the girl loves me, and she has scruples about the property herself. She will be glad of the excuse to restore it to me, and at the same time give her own fair self away to the man she prefers." 
               "Then why do you not make your advances in the regular manner, and with the consent of her mother, make her your wife? A daughter so much beloved, can surely influence her only parent to consent to her happiness." 
               An expression of fierce disdain passed over his features. 
               "I have neither time nor inclination to play the courtier to the simpleton of a mother, even if it would avail any thing. But it would not; our very name is a terror to her, and Mrs. Selden has no suspicion that I have ever spoken with her daughter." 
               "You have done so, then?" 
               "O, yes: after weeks of sentimentalizing in love letters and passionate poetry, she permitted me to join her in an evening walk. I pleaded my own cause so successfully, that she has contrived to walk out several times since, unaccompanied by her cousin; and I am always on the watch to avail myself of such occasions, though I'm getting devilishly tired of so much trouble. I can not, with all my eloquence, prevail on her to elope with me, and my affairs are coming to such a crisis that I must make her mine at once, or give up the game. Aid me in this, Barbara, and I will double the old man's five thousand, beside giving you all a home in my house." 
               "I will try," said Barbara, with a half sigh; for she had a girl's sympathy for the infatuated heart that was ready to trust its dearest hopes to such a man as she knew her brother to be. 
               "With you, to try is to succeed," replied Edward, gaily. "In the meantime, I am regularly done up, and must have a few hundreds from you to go on. Write me an order on your man of business, and I will repay you four-fold. Ha! ha! we are actually getting to be people of property again." 
               The order was given, and again wrapping himself in his cloak, Osborne bade them adieu. As he passed out, he said to Barbara- 
               "Remember to-morrow night to have every thing in readiness. If I fail, be prepared every night until I do come; for if success is to be found in strong will, I will gain it before another week passes away." 
               Barbara remained wrapped in painful musing many hours, and she sighed often, but she had not sufficient strength of principle to resist the temptation to do evil to another, that good might result to herself from it. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               REGINALD CLIFFORD returned to Alexandria with a heavy heart, but with energies that were braced to meet the coming conflict with fortune. The latent powers of a strong mind, and piercing intellect, were at last arousing themselves to a consciousness of their true value. 
               The funds arising from the sale of his furniture and horses, would, he knew, meet the debts he had contracted, and after all, he had the means of procuring bread secured to him. By some lucky chance, the hiding place of the money might yet be discovered; and with it, he believed the title deeds of his property would be found. 
               The severest pang to his heart, was the remembrance of Constance. Could he now ask her to share his changed fortunes? Could he expect that she would remain true to him, until he had resolutely struggled to competence by his own exertions? She, who he knew was admired, and sought by more than one lover, whose position was now better than his own. He tried to believe that if she failed him, she would be unworthy of regret; but the heart will not harken to such logic, nor remain convinced by it. In its deepest deep, he felt how dear she was to him, and sophistry could not disguise the fact, that in her hands rested the influence, which was to make or mar his destiny. 
               With constance Grey, for her, he could brave all the frowns of fortune, and overcome every obstacle to success; forever separated from her, and a gulf of desolation, he shuddered to contemplate, seemed lying all dark and rayless at his feet. 
               Clifford first sought the office of the lawyer, who had called on him. Mr. Hammond was out, but he saw the senior partner, Mr. Walmer, a keen, astute man of the world, who looked as if made especially for the position he filled. From him, Reginald learned that the preliminary steps for instituting the suit were already taken. The closest questioning failed to elicit any thing more from the lawyer, than he already knew. 
               The compromise proposed by Mr. Hammond, was at length referred to by the young man; in reply, Mr. Walmer informed him that his client had seen cause to decline any proposal of the kind. The true position of Clifford had already become known, and a struggle with the impoverished heir, who was believed to possess no business tact, was not considered very formidable; therefore, the other party thought fit to assume a higher tone, as if certain of ultimate success. 
               So far from depressing, this interview nerved Regniald to make every effort to defend his rights. In this, he only evinced that dauntless spirit, with which the highest order of mind is ever endowed. He felt that his capacity was underrated; his energy doubted by those he had to deal with, but he would yet show them that, with sufficient motive, he could labor and wait for his reward. 
               From the office of Walmer & Hammond, he proceeded to that of Judge S--, his own instructor in the mysteries of the law. The death of his father was already known there, and he was greeted with sympathetic looks and kindly pressures of the hand, from his fellow students; for he was a great favorite among them. On requesting a private interview with the Judge, it was at once granted, and in a few moments Clifford laid a clear statement of his position before his old friend. He listened attentively, and at the close of his narrative, said: 
               "It is a bad affair, I am afraid, unless the deeds can be found. At all events, you can protract the struggle, until the opposite party will be worried into a compromise. With possession in your favor, and money to carry on the campaign, victory may yet be yours." 
               I can scarcely be said to have possession, and of money, I am certainly destitute," replied Reginald, gloomily. 
               "How! what do you mean?" asked his companion, in surprise. 
               Then followed the singular history of his father's last acts. 
               "He was mad!" ejaculated the Judge. "Decidedly mad to hide away such a sum of money, from an absurd notion that you needed the rough discipline of adversity. Annul the contract; get funds, and when your suit is decided in your favor, make good the loss to the purchasers of the mortgage." 
               "Excuse me sir," said Reginald, decisively. "Even to regain fortune, I can not repudiate any act of my father's. He believed he was promoting my truest interests; he loved me with the tenderest affection, and nothing will tempt me to do that which will bring a reproach on his memory." 
               The old gentleman regarded him with an expression of respect. 
               "You will do yet, Clifford," he kindly said. "I had despaired of seeing your really fine talents of use to yourself or any one else; but the man who refuses to regain fortune on such a scruple, has the metal of which heroes are made. If you fail to come off victor in the suit, you will conquer in the great battle of life, and by your own efforts, regain more than you have lost." 
               "Thank you, dear sir, for your good opinion, which I will make every effort to deserve. And, now what is your advice?" 
               "You have old hands to deal with, who will avail themselves of every chance in their favor. You must have the best legal talent to oppose them; offer Messrs. -- a large contingent fee to defend the cause, and in the meantime resume your own studies with diligence, that you may not have to depend for future independence, on so uncertain and wearisome a thing as a law-suit." 
               "Thank you, sir, your advice tallies with my previous intentions, and from this time forward, I abjure the idle habits which have so much annoyed you." 
               When Clifford left Judge S--, he bent his steps toward the residence of Mrs. Selden, resolved to learn his fate at once. It was yet too early for general visitors, and he felt certain that he could gain a few moments alone with Constance. He sent up his card with a few words penciled on it, and sat down in a small morning room appropriated to the ordinary use of the family. 
               This little nook had a peculiarly home-like aspect. The glowing anthracite fire, the bright-colored carpet and curtains, the half open books, and baskets with their unfinished fancy-work, and gayly-colored worsteds tossed carelessly into them, made a home picture that was pleasant to contemplate. Reginald felt soothed and comforted by the cheerful appearance of every thing around, and he threw himself into a chair, and took up a book, on the open page of which lay an embroidered mark, bearing the name of Annie, and a few half-withered violets. 
               It was that silliest, and yet most fascinating of all love stories, to the young heart just beginning to breathe the atmosphere of passion-Henrietta Temple. 
               "Rather dangerous reading for a young lady just receiving her initiation in the court of Cupid," thought Clifford, as he carelessly turned over the leaves He found it marked in many places, and comments, written in a bold and manly hand, on the margin. "Somebody is making violent love to my little friend, that is certain," he mused, "I wonder how she is affected by it?" 
               At that moment Annie entered, advanced gladly to meet him, and then colored violently, as she saw how he was occupied. She looked in a flurried manner on the floor, and snatched up a half open letter, which he had not before observed, while she exclaimed, as if to herself: 
               "O, how could I have been so careless! If any one-" she paused abruptly-the color died away, and left her pale as marble, as she heard an approaching footstep. She hurriedly said: 
               "Give me the book, if you please, Mr. Clifford; my mother does not wish me to read works of this description, but I did not think there was much harm in this one; and then it is so beautiful. I was called away suddenly, and left it for a moment-it was so early, I did not think any one would be in before I returned." 
               This was uttered so rapidly, and with such evident perturbation, that Reginald placed the volume in her hands at once, without making any reply. 
               "Thank you-O, thank you; and-and I am glad to see you back, and very sorry for your afflictions. I have not time to talk to you now, for Constance comes, and I have no wish to be the one too many here." 
               With a painful attempt at one of her mischievous smiles, Annie flitted through a side door, as Miss Grey entered from the hall; and Reginald had not time to reflect on her singular conduct, before the voice which was dearest to him on earth, pronounced his name, in tones which conveyed as clear an assurance to his heart, of her deep sympathy in his bereavement reavement, as if many words had been uttered. Her dark eyes, divested of all mirth, but bearing in their depths a softness and earnestness of expression, which penetrated to his soul, were lifted serenely to his; and he knew that she felt with him, and for him in his late reverses. 
               He held her offered hand in his, and said: 
               "Constance, you have heard that I am alone in the world, that no tie save my love for you, is now strong enough to give an interest to existence. O, faithful heart of woman, if my appeal to you is now vain, my life will be one barren waste, arid as the sands of the desert, with no oasis imparting courage to the wayfarer to reach its life-giving fountains. Dear Constance, I offered you the hand of a man who believed himself rich in this world's wealth, when we last met. I come to you now, stripped of nearly all I possessed, and ask you if your love can stand the ordeal of time? await the reward of perseverance? for I swear to you that I will win a home worthy of your acceptance. 
               "Be seated, Reginald," said Constance, gently, "and calm this agitation. You have suffered greatly, I know, your letter prepared me for this, but I did not for a moment imagine that you could doubt my faith, though fortune has deserted you." 
               There was a simple sincerity in her manner, which carried the conviction of her truth to his soul, as a warm beam from the ever-living sun of affection. 
               "Mine-mine through years of toil-years of darkness, perhaps! O, Constance, should I be selfish enough to accept this sacrifice of your youth to my happiness?" 
               "Nothing is considered a sacrifice to one who truly and purely loves, Reginald," replied Constance in tones he thought the sweetest music he had ever heard. "When I gave you the hope that I might be yours, I left you to infer that no immediate union could take place; for on your part a pledge was implied, which circumstances only compel you to fulfill. Assume your true station before the world, and I care not for the loss of property. Win the humblest home by your own exertions, and I am ready to share it with you." 
               Clifford gazed on her with eyes radiant with love and joy. 
               "O, Constance! I always knew you were a noble woman, but only now do I comprehend what a jewel I have gained. Vows, promises, avail nothing, as you once said to me; but you shall see what magical effects will spring from your angelic influence upon my character." 
               "Do not tell me I am an angel, Reginald; for I feel that I am only a feeble, earth-born mortal, who endeavors with the blessing of Heaven to do what is right. Speak to me only as a rational woman, more deeply interested in your welfare than any other human being can be, and I shall be quite satisfied." 
               Clifford smiled and quoted Wordsworth's description of a woman. 
               "It is true as beautiful," he said. "I would rather have 
                      
                        "'A creature not too bright or good 
                        For human nature's daily food,' 
                     
                   than all the angels and saints in the catalogue. You shall be my bright mortal spirit. Yes, the poet says- 
                     "'A spirit, yet a woman, too.'"
                  
                
               An earnest discussion of their future plans now followed, and more than an hour passed quickly away, when they were interrupted by visitors. Reginald took his leave; and as he crossed the hall, he met Annie, looking as smiling and self-possessed as usual; but it did not escape him that she was paler than he had ever seen her, and her eyes had in them an expression of perturbed restlessness, very different from the placid serenity which had lately beamed from those blue orbs. 
               She held up her finger, and laughingly said: 
               "No tale-bearing, if you please, Mr. Clifford: I would not let even Cousin Con know how intensely interested I am in so naughty a thing as a love story." 
               "How did you obtain this book, Annie, may I ask?" 
               "O, why should you be curious? It was sent to me by a friend. Is that satisfactory?" 
               "By a lover, rather. Forgive my impertinence, Annie, but be warned-you are too young to trust to your own judgment. Make a confidant of your cousin. She will not put too severe constraint upon your young and ardent fancy." 
               "Constance! Why, she is more rigid in her notions than ma. I should be 'cribbed, cabined, and confined,' I assure you, if I submitted to her straight-laced ideas of what is proper for a young lady in my position. I love her dearly, and have great respect for her, too; but then what is the use of being young and independent, if one is never permitted to do as one pleases? But I can not stand chattering here, while such distinguished fashionables as the Misses Jenkins are awaiting my appearance; so, good morning." 
               She waved her hand, glided away, and was soon uttering those graceful nothings which make up the sum of fashionable conversations in a morning call. At length, one of the young ladies' said: 
               "Do tell me, Annie, who that very distingue man is, who sits every Sunday in Col. Seymour's pew?" 
               Annie felt that she colored, but she calmly replied: 
               "He seems to be a stranger in town, and he has not called on me." 
               "I saw him looking toward your pew so frequently, that I concluded he must be known to you. What beautiful eyes he has! and what an exquisite imperial! I think he has the air of a military man." 
               The calm tones of Miss Grey's voice now said: 
               "The gentleman you allude to is, I believe, Mr. Edward Osborne. He is not an acquaintance of Annie's, nor likely to become one." 
               "By the way," said the elder of the visitors, "I have heard a report that the late Mr. Clifford has disinherited his son in favor of the family of this very young man; and a fine fortune comes to them." 
               Constance smiled. 
               "That is about as near the truth as report usually gets. Mrs. Osborne is a distant relative of Mr. Clifford's wife, and he bequeathed to her a sufficient sum to keep her from want. But, I assure you, he had no idea of disinheriting his son." 
               "If report speaks only half the truth, Miss Grey must be able to give correct information on the affairs of Mr. Reginald Clifford." 
               Constance made no reply. She felt that her visitor had passed the bounds of good-breeding, and she availed herself of a remark made by Annie, to change the subject to something totally foreign to Clifford and his affairs. 
               Soon after the visitors departed, to disseminate the news in their round of calls, that Miss Grey and Reginald Clifford were certainly engaged, and Annie Selden's color fluctuated strangely when the name of Edward Osborne was mentioned. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               HENCEFORWARD, Reginald applied himself diligently to his studies. With a clear-headed precision, which showed what he could do when he was in earnest, he speedily put every thing in train for the life he intended to pursue. 
               Every superfluity was relinquished; the personal property he possessed was sold to advantage, and all his debts paid. The use of Judge S--'s library was offered to him, and arrangements made with a lawyer of eminent abilities to defend the important cause in which his fortune was involved. 
               Clifford withdrew from general society, and was only occasionally to be seen by other visitors at Mrs. Selden's. When he felt the slightest symptom of flagging courage, he sought the presence of Constance, and from her sweet smile, her reasonable words, gained new energy to persevere. 
               At first, the struggle was a severe one; and the mortifications to one of generous habits and luxurious tastes, were many and hard to bear; the pressure of narrow circumstances was severely felt, but gradually he found that he could accommodate himself to his situation; and he rejoiced that he was able to emancipate himself from the slavery of long habit. 
               Days and weeks rolled away, and the lovely season of Indian summer came to shed its misty beauty upon the landscape. Mrs. Selden was confined to her own room with a severe nervous affection, which kept her niece in almost constant attendance upon her, thus unhappily leaving Annie to her own guidance. 
               The manner of the poor child was excited and restless, and her quick movements annoyed, the invalid, much as she loved her. Her visits to the darkened room were, therefore, limited to a few moments in the morning and evening, when she resolutely endeavored to remain quiet, while her mother replied to her affectionate inquiries, and begged that she would amuse herself as well as she could. 
               For a few days after Mrs. Selden's attack, visitors came and went as usual; but the burden of entertaining them in the state Annie's mind was by this time in, was too great to be borne. Under the plea of her mother's illness, admittance was denied to every one save Clifford. 
               Left to herself, Annie spent her time in dreamy reverie, or in reading the most impassioned strains of poetry to be found in her mother's library. The letters of Osborne still continued, and the despairing earnestness with which he urged her to see him, if only for a moment, filled her heart with a tumult of doubt, fear, and happiness. 
               Constance observed that she grew, paler day by day, and her fears for her health were aroused. She urged her to take more exercise in the open air; to walk and drive every day. Mrs. Osborne had purchased a new barouche, and the driver was steady and careful; Annie would be perfectly safe under his care; or, if she preferred it, she could invite some of her young associates to accompany her. 
               Annie preferred going alone. She dared not confide her difficulties to any other person, and her mind was too much absorbed by one image, to render the indifferent conversation of another endurable to her. She was driven out once, and then the walks she took, seemed to possess a greater attraction for her. She declared they benefited her health much more than riding. 
               The secret of this preference is easily explained. In the first walk she took alone, Osborne joined her, and with an elequence which moved her to the depths of her soul, pleaded his own cause. Evening after evening this continued, yet Annie still shrunk from the proposal he at length ventured to make. He urged her to elope with him; and insisted that once united to him, her mother would feel the uselessness of betraying anger. But the young girl's principles were not yet entirely perverted; she felt how great would be the wrong, how overwhelming the shock, to her blindly-affectionate mother, to abandon her thus, without even asking her permission, or making known her lover's pretensions. She urged Osborne to visit her openly, and lay his proposals before Mrs. Selden. Her consent could only be refused, and then she would perhaps listen to his entreaties to fly with him. 
               To those pleadings, Osborne knew he dared not listen; for Mrs. Selden's hostility to him would prompt her to sift his character thoroughly, and he well knew it would not bear the ordeal. The unfortunate child his arts had so deeply entangled, must rush into the snare prepared for her, without consulting a better counselor than her own inexperienced youth and deeply enthralled heart. 
               At length, Mrs. Selden grew better; she was again able to leave her room and receive company; and Constance had leisure to resume her companionship with Annie, which this illness had interrupted. They had commenced a course of reading together, and the authors Constance selected, she trusted would form the taste of her young cousin to a higher standard than a more desultory pursuit of mere literary amusement. 
               Before Mrs. Selden's illness, Annie had seemed deeply interested, but now her weary manner and wandering thoughts betrayed to Constance that some great change had passed over her, and she quietly but sedulously sought a clue to its source. Annie soon became conscious of this, and her manner toward her cousin grew almost petulant. Trifles which once had no influence on a naturally amiable temper, now often rendered her irritable, and her mother marveled at the change, without being able to comprehend its cause. 
               Mr. Canfield continued assiduous in his attentions, which, to Mrs. Selden's displeasure, were received by her daughter almost with disdain. He, however, steamed insensible to the slights he endured, and continued the even tenor of his way, seemingly assured in his own mind that Annie would yet see how inexpedient it must be to refuse so unexceptionable an offer as that of George Canfield, Esq. 
               Annie was indeed very miserable. She had lost her own self-respect, yet she clung with desperate passion to the tempter whose voice had led from the path of openness and sincerity. Since the recovery of her mother, she could no longer meet him without danger of discovery. and her young heart pined for his presence, for the very sound of his voice, with an intensity that at times seemed as if it would shake the very foundations of reason, if the desire to commune with him once more were not speedily gratified. 
               In this state of unnatural excitement, she one evening almost rudely refused the company of her cousin when she was preparing to walk. Constance, as usual, had put on her bonnet to accompany her, when Annie turned to her and said: 
               "I wish to be alone, cousin. Here, I can never escape a moment from the sound of voices, or from the espionage of other's eyes. Do you think it necessary to become a spy on me, that you always insist on bearing me company, even when I go out for a little walk?" 
               "Pardon my anxiety for you, Annie," said Constance, deeply wounded, "and I will not again attempt to thrust my companionship upon you. You once loved me well enough to desire it, and I was not aware that those feelings have passed away." 
               Annie grasped her hand convulsively, and fixed her eyes, dimmed with tears, upon her cousin's face. 
               "Nor have they, dear Constance; but-but-I must seem unkind enough to refuse your company, still. I earnestly wish to take a walk alone. Indulge me this once, and I will be more reasonable in future." 
               She quickly left the room; and impressed with a vague sense of uneasiness on her account, though she was far from suspecting the truth, Constance commanded Peggy to follow her young lady, and not lose sight of her, as she feared she was not quite well. The woman laughed slyly as she prepared to obey, and congratulated herself on the complete ignorance of Miss Grey, concerning the affairs of her fair cousin. This woman was in the pay of Osborne, and thus recklessly periled the happiness of the child she had nursed, simply because it made her of consequence in her own estimation, to have the power of making a match for her nursling, of which the mother would probably disapprove. 
               As Annie expected, she had scarcely turned the corner of the first square, when Osborne, wrapped closely in his cloak, and with his hat drawn down over his forehead, came to her side. After a hurried greeting, he said: 
               "I have watched and prayed for this meeting, Annie, how fervently you can not know, or you would before this have found the means to grant it. Now I have you again with me, I will not suffer you to leave me until you have heard all I have to say. Then, if you remain unmoved, I leave you forever. Do you comprehend me, Annie? Adoringly as I love you, I will depart where the sound of your name shall never come to me; where I will forget the passion you have inspired-or die." 
               The deep tones of his ringing voice vibrated painfully to the agitated heart of the unhappy girl. She turned her pale face imploringly toward him. 
               "Ask my mother's consent, Edward; only let her know what has passed between us; if she refuses to give me to you, and you demand it of me, I will fly with you the next hour. O! so cruel a blow as my desertion, under such circumstances, would kill her! I implore you to have mercy upon me, for I am nearly wild with the conflict between duty and affection." 
               Her agitation was so excessive, that he feared she would faint. 
               "First hear me," he gently replied; and then if you demand it, I will seek your mother." 
               "Thanks! thanks! Then I can see my way clearly; but this concealment, this hourly deception, is killing me." 
               He drew her arm within his, and under the folds of his cloak, held her hand firmly yet tenderly grasped in his own. Annie felt as if that fervent clasp was leading her she knew not, cared not whither, so she was by his side. It is an awful thing thus to love one who is noble and worthy; thus to surrender all control over our own fate into the keeping of another. How much more terrible was it, that this young and innocent being, so completely gave herself into the power of this worldly, scheming sharper, who had just love enough for her to enable him to simulate the most ardent attachment. 
               Woe-woe to thy future, bright bud of promise! Darkly it looms before thy reckless feet, as a phantom on which desolation and despair are written! 
               Osborne drew her rapidly forward through several quiet streets, until they reached the outskirts of the town. Concealed by a cluster of trees and low brushwood, was an open carriage, which a small boy was watching; after much persuasion. Annie entered this, and seated herself beside her lover. He said: 
               "You are too weak and too much excited to walk far, Annie; and, besides, we might be observed. A drive will do you good, and we can quietly discuss our plans. I will bring you back in time to make all straight with the old lady." 
               Annie listened to him submissively, for she felt the power of a strong controlling will, and she was too happy beside him to offer any violent opposition. 
               Osborne drove on, and on, and the charmed heart that listened to his insidious words, forgot that such things as time or space existed. Her world was beside her, and could they have gone on thus forever, she would have been enchanted that the dream remained unbroken. 
               At length the level beams of the sun, as it sunk behind the tree-tops, glanced in her face at a sudden turn in the road; and with a start, and an exclamation, she said: 
               "The sun is setting, and we are far from home! I shall find the whole house in commotion when I return, and my mother will not consent for me to walk alone again. O, Edward, turn quickly, and drive back as rapidly as you can." 
               "Never fear, sweet Annie," he soothingly said. "We have ample time for all that is before us. The road just here is too narrow to turn, but there is a place half a mile ahead where we can manage it. Pardon my thoughtlessness, my beloved. I was so deeply absorbed in our conversation, that I forgot how far we had driven. Fear nothing, love; the horse is spirited, and will take us back much quicker than we came." 
               Thus encouraged, Annie half forgot her apprehensions in the joy of gaining a few more moments in his society. He went on at a quicker pace. 
               "And to-morrow you will see my mother," breathed Annie, with love-lit eyes. "You will tell her how much you love her child! O, happy to-morrow! I wish, yet dread to see it; for between the rising and setting of its sun, my fate will be decided." 
               "It is already decided, Annie," he smilingly replied. "I will brave all the powers on earth to make you mine. If you were at the altar with another, I would snatch you from his side, and proclaim my prior right." 
               "No-no-with no other than you, dear Edward, would I approach the altar. It would be sacrilege to profane the holy sacrament of marriage by uttering a false vow." 
               While they thus conversed, the horse gained the top of a steep and winding hill, washed into deep ruts, and bounded on one hand by a high wall of earth, on the other by a deep ravine, in which brawled a shallow stream, over ledges of rock. Absorbed in the interest of their conversation, Osborne forgot to lock the wheel, and the perilous descent was commenced before he was aware of the danger. The carriage ran against the spirited animal, frightened him, and he commenced rearing and plunging almost over the precipice. Annie shrieked, and would have attempted to jump out, but Osborne put her back with a firm hand, and rising on his seat, endeavored to curb the unruly steed. Though an experienced whip, he saw at a glance the awful fate that menaced them, together with his utter inability to manage the startled horse; but his nerves did not fail him. Perfect self-command alone he felt could now avail to save them, for the restraint of the curb only caused the animal to rear, until he was in imminent danger of falling backward upon the carriage and crushing them, while his frantic struggles brought the outer wheel to the very verge of the beetling precipice, beneath which lay certain destruction. 
                
               Osborne's hat had fallen off in the struggle; livid with fear, and drenched with the cold dew of excitement, he saw that but one chance remained to them, and on his steadiness of hand and eye life depended. Holding the reins firmly with one hand, with the other he drew from his bosom a pistol, and aiming at the spot where he knew the brain lay, he fired. 
               With a hollow neigh, which was frightfully reverberated by the hills, the animal fell in the throes of death, leaving the light carriage trembling on the very verge of the abyss. Osborne jumped out, with a few vigorous efforts drew it back in the road, and hastened to cut the traces. He then turned his attention to Annie. He found her pallid and trembling, but she had not fainted, for the terrible interest of the scene, had been too intense to permit her to lose consciousness. 
               "All is safe now," he cheerfully said, as he lifted her unresistingly from her seat, and carried her like a child, to the bottom of the hill. When she recovered breath enough, she softly said: 
               "And you, by your presence of mind, have saved us both. O, Edward, I promise you that the life you have so gallantly preserved, shall be devoted to you." 
               Annie, like all timid persons, was deeply impressed by a display of the opposite quality in another. 
               "What are we to do now?" she asked, as they stood together, in a deep dell, formed by encircling hills. 
               Osborne replied: 
               "When we ascend yonder pathway, Annie, you will see a lonely house about a quarter of a mile distant. I will now confess to you, that my purpose was to induce you to enter that house before we return to town; for in it are those who are impatient to welcome a daughter, and a sister." 
               Annie listened in apparent surprise, but there was no reproach in the soft glance of her eyes as they met his. She probably remembered the old adage that "all stratagems in love are fair," and forgave him for his deception, in consideration of the passion he professed for her. She said: 
               "It can not now be wrong to visit your mother, for no choice is left me, Edward. There, perhaps, we can obtain the means of returning to town. O, how shall I account to my mother for this strange absence?" 
               "I will account to Mrs. Selden for it, my precious love. Come with me to the Manor, and from there, I return with you to demand your mother's sanction to our union." 
               Annie was far from comprehending his real meaning, and a bright glow of joy suffused her features. She placed her hand confidingly in his, and together they ascended the hill. The fright had made her so weak, that Osborne was compelled to pass his arm around her slender form, and almost carry her on their way. 
               "Thus-thus-forever thus!" murmered the trusting spirit of the happy girl. "Forever on life's sunny track supported and sustained by his strong arm!" 
               Mother, cousin, home, were all forgotten in the serene joy that filled her soul, as she was borne to her fearful doom. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               FOR many evenings Barbara had watched in vain for the arrival of her brother, and his victim. At length her patience was rewarded by seeing him cross the yard in the dimness of twilight, accompanied by a slight figure, which she had no difficulty in identifying as Annie Selden. 
               She knew that the hour had arrived to aid him in his plans, and she went forth to meet them, serene in conscious power over the trembling dreamer, on whom she was to cast her spells. With gentle words of welcome, she drew the agitated girl to the side of her mother, and bade her receive her as her daughter. 
               Mrs. Osborne had been prepared for the part she was to act, and she drew Annie to her bosom, and kissed her as she said: 
               "You have not changed much, my love, since the days of your childhood. There are the same lovely blue eyes, and bright hair; the same innocence of expression. I did not in those days ever expect to claim you as my daughter; but since you come to me in that character, of your own free will, I gladly welcome you." 
               "Not yet your daughter," replied Annie tremulously, "but I hope soon to claim that title." 
               "Yes, before the night wanes, my love. Coming to this roof clandestinely, as you have done, you can not with propriety leave it, except as the wife of Edward." 
               Annie grew even paler than before. She earnestly said: 
               "That is impossible, madam. My mother has not yet been consulted, and I dare not wed even him I love, without at least asking her consent." 
               "That is a mere form, and one which, in this case, may be dispensed with; for your other parent has signified his consent to your union with my son." 
               Annie looked at her with dilating eyes. 
               "What can you mean, madam? I do not comprehend you." 
               "I mean simply what I say. Have you never heard of those strangely endowed beings, who have the mysterious power conferred on them, of communicating with the world of spirits?" 
               "I have; but have been taught to consider them as only clever impostors." 
               "Not so," said the clear and impressive voice of Barbara; "reality and truth are in their revelations. Moved by the decree of Fate, made known to me by this medium; I have acquiesced in the stratagem which brought you hither to-night. Annie Selden, will you hear the command yourself, which gives you to my brother for his wife?" 
               Annie's mind was deeply tinctured by superstition, as are those of all persons in-trusted to the care of negroes during those tender years, when goblin stories have their deepest influence; but she was too innocent to be afraid of the inhabitants of another sphere. Beside, she had intense curiosity on the subject of spiritual rappings; and would long since have sought an interview with the mediums, had not the influence of her mother and cousin prevented her. They knew her to be of a nervous, excitable temperament, and they feared the influence of the scene upon her impressible imagination. She faintly replied: 
               "If such things are, let them be demonstrated to me." 
               Osborne drew her toward himself, and asked in eager tones: 
               "If the spirits bid you marry me, dearest Annie, will you leave this house as my wife?" 
               Annie hesitated. Her mother forsaken of her only child, arose before; her cousin reproaching her for her want of confidence in those who had so tenderly watched over her; and she raised her eyes to utter a negative. They encountered the dark orbs of her lover, fixed upon her with the power of a spell which she was incapable of resisting. 
               Her pale lips unclosed, and a whisper so faint as scarcely to be audible, issued from them: 
               "I will," and her fate was sealed. 
               Well might her good angel bow his head and weep, as the decree went forth. 
               With the glow of successful villainy upon his cheek, Osborne signed to his sister to proceed. 
               Barbara drew forward the table, and placed it before the wildly excited girl, who was seated with her face toward the door leading into the adjoining apartment. Annie followed her movements with feverish interest, and a quick flutter of the heart that almost deprived her of breath. Her courage would at last have failed her, had she not felt her hand clasped by that of her lover, and by his side, her confiding heart felt as if no evil could approach her. 
               The earnest and impressive manner of Barbara, as she moved about making her preparations, caused a thrill of superstitious awe to penetrate the sensitive frame of the deeply interested spectator; and when she paused beside the door, and uttered the word "open," in a commanding tone, the young girl would have fainted, but for a subtile odor which at that instant spread through the room, and acting at once upon her senses, seemed to lull them into a delicions feeling of repose. 
               Her head sank back and rested on the breast of Osborne, and all that followed, seemed as a strange dream. 
               Without any visible agency, the door slowly opened, and a bright yet soft light, illuminated the room beyond, with its mellow radiance. In the center of the floor stood a large frame covered with illusion, and behind it stood a small figure clothed in floating robes of white, girded to his waist with a silver ribbon. The curling hair lay upon his shoulders, and was held back from the broad spiritual brow by a wreath of mistletoe. In his tiny hand was grasped the wand with which he summoned the spirits from their aerial homes, to commune with the children of earth. 
               "Is that indeed an angel messenger?" asked Annie in a faint whisper of Osborne 
               "No, darling; that is only my brother. He is the medium; it is Barbara's fancy to dress him thus." 
               The voice of Barbara here arose with startling distinctness: 
               "Daughter of clay, with whom would you commune? Do you desire to summon the spirit of your father to a conference?" 
               Annie raised her hand, but the power of articulation was destroyed by the overwhelming agitation that seized her at this adjuration. The motion was received as assent, and the child waved his wand, while his voice commanded the spirit to answer. 
               Several loud and distinct raps resounded through the rooms, which seemed to the excited neophyte as if they were struck upon her own heart. 
               "You are incapable of questioning yourself," said Barbara, as she turned toward the pallid creature, whose awe-struck expression assured her that their spells were not in vain. "Shall I speak for you?" 
               "Thank you-yes-yes," she feebly articulated, and Barbara turned her serene face toward the boy. 
               As the raps were again heard, she asked: 
               "Art thou the spirit of Richard Selden?" 
               A loud, distinct response was heard in the usual manner, which she interpreted to mean "Yes." 
               "Do you recognize the presence of your daughter?" 
               A similar reply. 
               "Are you pleased that she shall make this call on you?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Will her happiness be promoted by her union with my brother?" 
               A perfect chorus of raps here resounded from the floor, the walls, and the table, which might have been interpreted to mean violent dissent, but it did not suit the actors in the scene so to interpret them; and the deluded victim was ready to accept the meaning they chose to affix to them; for she was too much frightened and bewildered to have any power of discrimination left. 
               After a pause, Barbara again spoke: 
               "Is it expedient that the union shall take place immediately, and without the consent of her living relatives?" 
               Again arose that wild chorus, and it died away with a wailing sound, as if some mighty sorrow-some indignant grief, were pressing upon the soul of the spirit which had been so impiously summoned to aid in consummating the wretchedness of his only child. 
               Annie did not hear the sound, which caused even the practiced actors in the scene to grow pale, for she had fainted. 
               When she recovered consciousness, the door was closed, Harry, in his ordinary garb, stood beside her, and Barbara was engaged in ministering to her with an appearance of great solicitude. Osborne held her in his arms in front of the open window, through which flowed a current of cool air, while the solemn stars looked down in calm majesty from above. 
               Annie involuntarily asked: 
               "From those radiant orbs, dwelling at measureless distances from earth, can a child of mortality indeed summon the freed spirit, and force it to reply to such questions as he may think fit to ask?" 
               "Thou hast already been answered," said Barbara, solemnly. "Thou hast heard the command; wilt thou obey?" 
               "Since I have dared the ordeal, I will abide by its decision," replied Annie, with sudden energy. "What Heaven wills, can not be wrong." 
               "Then all things are in readiness-come." 
               "O, Annie, life of my life! how shall I thank you for this consent!" murmured her lover, bending down to the white face that lay as a snow-drift upon his dark bosom, and imprinting his first kiss upon her cold lips. "My angel-bride, you have made me unutterably happy!" 
               "Love me-love me ever, Edward, and I too shall be happy," she whispered, as he bore her unresistingly toward the center of the apartment; and he almost vowed within himself to do his best to reward such trusting love, by putting a curb upon his own vicious inclinations. 
               Another actor now appeared upon the scene. A sedate looking man, whom Annie had not before observed, advanced to meet them, holding a prayer-book in his hand. He was dressed in black, and she mistook him for a clergyman-he was only a magistrate from a neighboring village, who had been highly bribed to hold himself in readiness for the present emergency. 
               There, in the silence of night, surrounded only by those so deeply interested in the success of their nefarious schemes, Annie Selden plighted her faith to the unworthy one whom she so purely loved. 
               Barbara was not all evil. She was touched by her youth and innocence, and at the conclusion of the ceremony, she whispered to her brother: 
               "You will love and cherish her truly, Edward?" 
               "I will try, Barbara," he responded; but even at that moment, with those soul-lit eyes, radiant with affection, lifted to his own, he felt that he dared not promise; for the influence of an angel could not long turn him from the evil courses his soul delighted in. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               AS the shadows of twilight gradually closed in night, Constance Grey became extremely uneasy at the lengthened absence of Annie. On inquiry, she ascertained that Peggy had also failed to return, and she knew not what to fear. She sent out messengers in pursuit of the delinquents, and waited their report in a state of feverish anxiety she feared to communicate to her aunt. 
               Mrs. Selden lay dozing upon a sofa, under the influence of morphine, which had been administered to lull the pain she still occasionally suffered. As the lamp was lighted, she aroused herself, and asked- 
               "Has my daughter not yet returned, Constance?" 
               "It is not quite dark yet, Aunt. Stephen is earlier than usual in lighting the room: the glow of sunset still lingers, and before it fades quite away, I think Annie will surely be here." 
               The mother again sunk into a light slumber, and Constance quietly left the room to ascertain if any of the servants had returned. She found quite a commotion in the hall. Peggy had just been dragged in very unwillingly by the carriage driver, who had found her sociably taking tea in the shanty of one of her colored friends. In spite of her opposition, he forced her to return home with him, and she now sat in a large chair, pretending to weep violently as she vociferated her innocence. 
               "I 'clar 'fore de Lord, I'm innocent as a baby of knowin' what's come o' Miss Annie. What for you drag me thro' de street, you onmannerly nigga? I ain't done nothin' I's 'fraid to tell." 
               At this juncture, Constance appeared, and the woman cowered before the penetrating glance she bent upon her. She asked: 
               "For what purpose did I send you out, Peggy, but to follow Miss Annie and see that no harm befell her? She was evidently suffering, and I feared she might be ill in the street. What have you been doing?" 
               "Well, Miss Con, de trufe is, I hain't bin doin' nothing', cos, when I got out myself, Miss Annie was clean out o' sight, and I didn't know no more than nothin' which way she'd gone. So I concluded I'd jes' go to see Betty Shun, de washwoman, who is a cousin o' mine, and spen' de arternoon wid her; and Miss Annie would come back when she got ready, all de same as ef I follered her. Why, she have walked out by herself every evenin' while ole Missis was sick, and dere was no needcessity for my goin' arter her." 
               Constance made no effort to stop this torrent of words. When Peggy ended, she sadly said- 
               "Peggy, you have disobeyed me, and God knows what the consequences may be to the child I thought you loved." 
               In great distress, she went to the front entrance and looked in every direction through the gathering gloom of night, but no light form came tripping through the twilight to the home, so lately brightened by her presence. Such a thing had never before occurred, and Constance was justly alarmed at her protracted absence. 
               She waited half an hour longer in great suspense, and then sent for Clifford, to consult with him on what was best to be done. Mrs. Selden still slumbered, and Constance rejoiced that she was spared the anxiety that filled her own heart. 
               Clifford speedily appeared, and on learning what had occurred, he endeavored to calm her fears by assuring her that Annie had probably called on some of her young friends and been over-persuaded to remain the evening with them. 
               Constance was certain that such could not be the case, for Annie had never before done such a thing, and she would not choose a time like the present, to inflict such anxiety upon her mother. She, however, gave him the names of those families Annie visited socially, and Reginald went forth to inquire of her "whereabouts" among them. 
               Of course, the quest was unsatisfactory, and he began to share the apprehensions of his betrothed, when he returned to Mrs. Selden's, and found Annie's disappearance still a profound mystery. It was yet early in the evening, however, and he would make further efforts to trace her, which he doubted not would end successfully. 
               Clifford suddenly remembered the book, the letter, and Annie's agitation. on the occasion of his call several weeks before. He turned back, and asked of Constance- 
               "Have you any reason for thinking that Annie has a lover her mother would not approve of?" 
               "O, no, cortainly not. She has several admirers, who come openly to the house; but she does not seem to favor any of them." 
               "Have you marked nothing in her manner of late, that would seem to indicate that a struggle was taking place in her mind? Seldom as I have seen her, I have noticed a change, which I thought only one cause could account for." 
               A new light, painful and convincing, dawned on the mind of Constance. She faltered- 
               "You are right, and I have been blind where I should have been most sighted. But Annie is so young, and I thought so fancy free, I never once dreamed of her being in love." 
               "That fact considered as established, who can it be with, is the next consideration? And why should she have concealed it from those most deeply interested in her happiness?" 
               "Those are questions I am quite unable to answer, for I am completely bewildered." 
               "Perhaps I can assist you. The lover is evidently one her mother would never consent to bestow her on, or his advances would not have been made in so clandestine a manner. A gleam of light here falls on the affair, which may lead to something. Do you remember the conversation about the Osborne family which took place here on the night of the party? Annie's reference to her childish love for the son, and the decided language of her mother?" 
               Constance grasped his hand, and with a shudder exclaimed- 
               "Do not-do not tell me that the unhappy child has been lured from her home by that man. O! it will destroy my aunt, if it really should be so!" 
               "I am sadly afraid that Osborne is the man, for he has been in this place since the death of his father; and with him alone, could Annie have so mysteriously disappeared." 
               The terrible conviction of the truth came to the heart of Constance. She grew pale as death, as she replied: 
               "You are right. It is Osborne with whom she has eloped. Cruel, deceitful girl! she has destroyed herself, and brought wretchedness to the heart of her mother!" 
               She then related the adventure in the jeweler's shop; his constant attendance at the same church, and both were convinced that the absence of Annie could be traced to one cause alone. 
               Clifford furnished with this clue, again went out to gain some information concerning the recent movements of Osborne; and Constance, sick at heart, obeyed the call of Mrs. Selden, who was at length aroused to the full knowledge that night had long since fallen, and her daughter was still absent. 
                
               She found her aunt in a pitiable state of agitation. She insisted that her child had been waylaid, possibly murdered-and they must send for the police, summon their friends, and have a thorough search instituted. 
               Constance vainly endeavored to soothe her by the assurance that Clifford had already adopted such measures as must lead to a discovery of Annie's whereabouts. The passage of the moments without bringing her daughter, only aggravated Mrs. Selden's fears. The whole household was dispatched in different directions in pursuit of the fugitive, and Constance alone remained with the disconsolate mother. To calm her anguish concerning the safety of her daughter's life, Constance at length ventured to hint to her what she believed to be the real state of the case. Mrs. Selden listened incredulously, and indignantly refused to believe that one so fondly indulged would thus recklessly trample on the ties of nature, and without a word of explanation, forsake the mother who adored her, for the arms of a stranger. 
               "But if he is not a stranger?" faltered poor Constance, fearful of the effect her words might produce. 
               "What can you possibly mean, Constance?" asked her aunt, in a tone of extreme irritation. "Do you wish to drive me mad, with your idle suggestions?" 
               "I only mean, dear aunt, that Annie may have fled with one-she knew, and unhappily loved even as a child." 
               In her violent excitement, Mrs. Selden had been walking rapidly to and fro; at these words she sunk upon a chair, and turned a face so ghastly, so wild, toward her niece, that she flew to her side in great alarm. She hoarsely asked: 
               "Do you mean that Edward Osborne has persuaded her away?" 
               "I greatly fear it is so." 
               Mrs. Selden passionately clasped her hands above her brow, as if to stifle the great pain that rioted there-her voice was low and broken as she murmured: 
               "My God-my God! how have I merited this calamity? Much as I love her, sooner than that, I would willingly lay her in her grave, and thank the power that removed her from me. O, Constance, unsay those words, they pierce my soul as a two-edged dagger." 
               Constance could not unsay them, for every moment deepened the conviction that with Osborne alone could Annie have eloped; for he was the only one likely to make pretensions to her hand, which would be positively negatived by her mother. Many trifling incidents which had been scarcely noticed at the time, now crowded on her memory, and all tended to strengthen the belief that the hapless girl had thrown herself entirely in the power of Edward Osborne. 
               "You do not answer me-you will not speak, and remove this weight that is breaking my heart!" passionately continued the unhappy mother. "Since you believe this, go and bring me evidence that your suspicions are well founded. Search her room; that man has not visited her openly; there must be letters-seek for them, bring them to me, and let me at least gain some certainty of the fate my wretched child has embraced." 
               In her present state of excitement, Constance dared not disobey her, and with rapid steps she gained the room of Annie. Her portfolio lay on the table, with the key in the lock. She returned with it to Mrs. Selden, who seized it, tore it open, and scattered the contents before her. Among them came forth a package of letters, tied with blue ribbon, and several boquets of withered violets. She snatched the letters with frantic violence, opened one, read a few lines from it, glanced at the signature, and a cry so full of crushed and bleeding affections, arose from the forsaken mother's heart, as might have drawn tears of pity, even from the angels of heaven. Had Annie heard it, she must have been stricken with remorse; for then she would have comprehended all the wrong she had committed against that maternal love which would have shielded her from the approach of evil, even at the sacrifice of life itself. 
               Completely overwhelmed by the discovery of the clandestine correspondence, Mrs. Selden sank down at once, and remained helplessly crying and bewailing the unhappy fate of her daughter, deaf to all the consolation her niece would fain have offered. 
               At length Clifford returned, and from his stern brow and compressed lips, Constance drew no favorable augury. His inquiries had elicited the fact that Osborne had that evening hired a cabriolet, in which he had been met several miles from town, accompanied by a lady so closely vailed that she could not be recognized. No doubt remained in his own mind, that this was Annie Selden; and if she had accompanied him willingly, it would be useless to attempt a pursuit. They would be married before they could be overtaken, and once his wife, the absolute control of Annie and her fortune vested in Osborne, according to the tenor of the will which bequeathed it to her. 
               Constance silently pointed to the letters of Osborne, as she dejectedly said: 
               "There lie the proofs that no abduction has been attempted. Without such evidence, I would not believe that Annie could act with such duplicity." 
               "Judge her not too harshly," replied Clifford, compassionately. "Poor young creature! her artless simplicity has been imposed on by this plausible man. Wait till you hear all, before you utterly condemn her." 
               Mrs. Selden here looked up: 
               "I will not condemn one who so greatly needs pity," she mournfully said. "Although she has outraged every feeling of my heart, I can forgive, and love her still. The unhappy choice she has made, will soon render my affection doubly necessary to her. I remember him as a reckless, selfish, unprincipled youth, who suffered nothing to stand in the way of his own gratification. I have seen him tyrannize over my child, when she was almost an infant, yet she clung to him even then, with a tenacity I could not comprehend. I was glad when Mr. Elbert's will broke up all friendship between the families, and the Osbornes moved away. After all, this man has come back and stolen my child from me." 
               Here the anguish of the mother broke forth in cries and sobs, and summoning some of the servants, who by this time came straggling in, one by one, Constance succeeded in getting her conveyed to her own apartment, where she persuaded her to lie down, and take some composing drops. 
               This accomplished, she glided down stairs again, to see Clifford, a few moments, before he left. As she crossed the hall, a violent ring at the door resounded through the house; hoping to hear some news from the fugitive, Constance hurried to open it herself. A man-muffled to the eyes, stood in the darkness without, who immediately handed her a folded paper, and ran down the steps. 
               She returned to the room where Reginald awaited her, and together they examined the billet. There was no address on it, and Constance finally opened it and read the following words, hastily written with a pencil: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MRS. SELDEN,-I have married your daughter without asking your consent because I knew it would be useless to do so. Do not blame Annie, for I freely confess that I inveigled her away. I deceived her into accompanying me, and an accident I could not foresee, favored my plans. I have used every art to overcome the scruples of your daughter to a clandestine union, for she had many, and until placed in such a position, that to refuse to become mine would have caused an eternal separation between us, if she did not consent. 
                           "You will perhaps say, 'Would that it had been even thus;' but if it had, know that your daughter would have perished of a broken heart, caused by my desertion, for she loves me with a passion that gives me unbounded influence over her. This influence, be it for evil or for good, I shall preserve to the last, so you had best make up your mind to receive me, as the ruler of her earthly destiny should be welcomed, or, perhaps, it may not be so well for either you or her. 
                           "You probably think I assume the tone of the master very soon, but I have well-learned that he who would rule such weak subjects as women, must show, at once, that he is not to be trifled with. 
                           "Through my union with your daughter, I but claim now what should long since have been my own; with the incumbrance of yourself, and Annie to support; but I love Annie, and for her sake I am willing to permit you to remain in my house, provided you always treat me with the respect due to the master of the mansion. 
                           "I am thus plain with you, because I wish our relative positions to be perfectly understood before we meet, and I do not choose to stand any nonsense. Annie has made her choice of a husband, and no one shall blame it with impunity. 
                           
                              EDWARD OSBORNE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               With an indignant heart Constance read the hard and unfeeling words addressed to her afflicted aunt, and then handed the letter, in silence, to Clifford. When he had glanced over it, he exclaimed with flashing eyes: 
               "Would to God there was yet time to rescue Annie from this heartless wretch, and I would risk my life to save her from his tyranny. Poor, unhappy child! she can not dream how galling is the yoke she has imposed on herself. Constance, when this man becomes master here, I can no longer permit you to remain beneath his roof. I shall claim the right to make you mine, without delay." 
               "My dear friend, my aunt most sorely needs me now; even poor Annie may be benefited by my presence, and I can not selfishly shrink from them if such be the case. I will promise you, however, that if my home becomes intolerable to me, I will accept the alternative you offer; though I feel that to marry in our present circumstances would be extremely imprudent. I could not bear to be a burden to you, Reginald." 
               "Nor would you be, dearest Constance. An incentive-a precious trust to struggle for, would you be to me. I shall remember your promise, and be sure I shall be as keen-sighted as a hawk, in regard to the movements of Mr. Edward Osborne. If I detect a single shadow on your brow, I shall, in defiance of poverty, claim the hand you have plighted." 
               After a pause, Constance asked: 
               "Shall I show this precious production to my aunt? It seems to me it will only add to the extreme dislike she already feels toward Mr. Osborne." 
               "True, perhaps it will be best to permit Mrs. Selden to remain in ignorance of its contents. To show it, will be uselessly inflicting another wound upon her heart. And now, good night, dearest Constance; I will will be with you to-morrow as early as possible." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               MRS. SELDEN passed the remainder of the night in tears and lamentations, and Constance sat beside her, with her hands clasped in her own, endeavoring to cheer her with better hopes of Annie's future, than she dare believe herself. 
               All her efforts were powerless to change the preconceived impressions of her aunt, and worn out with suffering as day was dawning, Mrs. Selden fell into a troubled slumber, which was interrupted by sighs and starts, as if the soul took with it, even in the mystic realms of sleep, the consciousness of the anguish that desolated her heart. 
               Constance would not leave her, and at length, overcome by fatigue, her head gradually drooped upon the pillow, and she too, for a brief season, forgot her unhappiness in slumber. 
               She awoke with a start, and found the sun was shining brightly without, and a confused remembrance of the occurrences of the past night dawned on her mind. Gradually they arranged themselves clearly before her, and she turned to her aunt. 
               Mrs. Selden lay in a species of stupor, and the affectionate heart of Constance was touched with grief, as she beheld the ravages one night of suffering had made in her features. Ten years seemed to have been added to her age, since the previous evening, and there was an expression of broken-down helplessness upon them, that went to her heart. 
               Her own apartment joined that of her aunt, and she quietly entered it, to re-arrange her disordered toilet, and prepare her mind for the distressing scenes she foresaw the day must witness. In communion with that Power which strengthens the weakest, she found the support she so much needed; and with a calmer heart, went forth to look after the affairs of the disordered household. 
               After the excitement of the preceeding night, the servants had all overslept themselves; and she encountered no one in her walk through the lower rooms. She rang several times before the bell was answered, and then Stephen, a mulatto boy, who had been owned several years by Mrs. Selden, appeared, looking as much depressed as any of the family. 
               "Excuse me, Miss Constance," he said; "but after all the fuss las' night, I did'nt expect to see you up so soon. Though 'taint soon nuther, an' I 'spose every thing mus' be fixed up to receive Miss Annie." 
               "Yes, Stephen, every thing must be in good order, for I expect your young mistress back this morning." 
               "Ah, Miss Constance, is what Peggy says the truth? That Miss Annie have run off with young Mr. Osborne?" asked the boy with much solicitude. 
               "It is certainly true, Stephen, but how Peggy knew it, is a mystery to me." 
               "Then the Lord above help her, and all on us," said Stephen, dolefully. 
               "Why? what can you mean?" 
               "Only this, Miss Constance. I used to b'long to old Mr. Osborne, and at the sale, Mas'r Selden bought me. I'm younger than Mr. Edward, but I used to wait on him, and he was a cruel, and awful tempered lad-I don't b'lieve he's any better, as a man. O, my sweet Miss Annie had better have trusted herself with a tiger, than with such as him! I forgets my own grief, at comin' under him agin, in what I feels for her." 
               "Well, Stephen, I caution you not to speak thus, before any of the servants. Your new master would only be irritated against you by it. Things may turn out better than we anticipate." 
               "I hope to de Lord dey will, Miss Constance, but I can't help feelin' mighty dub'-ous. However, I'll do the best I can, any how." 
               "That is all that is required of any of us, Stephen. Ah, there is a ring at the door. It can scarcely be Miss Annie so soon." 
               Constance remained standing in the hall, while the boy opened the door. A respectable looking negro handed in a letter, and immediately departed. It was addressed to Mrs. Selden, and on the back was written 'Important.' Constance recognized the writing; it was from Mr. Canfield; and why he should have written to her aunt, at such a time, she could not imagine. 
               She took it up stairs with her, and found Mrs. Selden awake. 
               "Who rang?" she nervously inquired. "I heard the bell. Is there any communication from Annie, yet?" 
               Constance evaded a direct reply by handing her the letter which had just arrived. 
               "This was left for you a few moments since. Will you read it now?" 
               Mrs. Selden snatched the letter, tore open the envelop, and read these words: 
               "Are you aware that your daughter has eloped with a gambler? with a man known as the associate of reprobates and swindlers? Why, then, do you not cause her to be pursued, and torn forcibly from his arms? O, supine mother, tears of blood will be wrung from you, for this passiveness. If it were necessary, I could accumulate proof on proof of the unworthiness of Osborne to touch the hem of that young victim's garment, much less to claim her as the wife of his bosom. It may not be yet too late to reclaim your daughter, and I urge you to make the attempt." 
               There was no signature to these lines, but Mrs. Selden also recognized the writer. With a painful mingling of sorrow and hope upon her features, she held the paper toward her niece, and feebly asked: 
               "Can there be a hope that I may yet save her?" 
               Constance glanced down the page; she remembered Osborne's letter, and gravely said: 
               "I fear it is too late, dear aunt; they were probably married within a few hours after they left the city; and Annie, herself, would not submit to be separated from one she had braved so much to marry." 
               At that moment a light familiar step, which caused both hearts to vibrate painfully, was heard tripping up the stairs, and the next instant Annie came flying into the room, and cast herself upon the breast of her mother. 
               Mrs. Selden's arms instinctively closed around her, and she held her in a clasp, which seemed as if it never would be broken. 
                
               "Mother, you have, you do forgive me!" she murmered. "I meant not so terribly to deceive you. When I left home last evening, I fully intended to return in a few moments; but I was overruled by Destiny, and I willingly submit to its decree. Mother, I am the wife of the man I adore." 
               "Say not so, my hapless child," said Mrs. Selden, hysterically. "The sharper, the gambler, the outlaw of social life, can claim no enduring place in your heart. Come back to me, my darling, and forego this wild dream of love. You are too young-too inexperienced to choose for yourself. I refuse my sanction to this marriage." 
               At the words of her mother, Annie violently released herself from her arms, and raised herself to her full stature, with an expression almost of dignity investing her slight figure. Her pale cheek flushed, and her eyes sparkled, as she repeated: 
               "Sharper! gambler! Are such, indeed, the words you apply to the son I have given you? Edward Osborne is my husband; do you hear, mother? my tenderly loved husband; and not even from you, will I hear such epithets applied to him. I have given myself to him, and I will remain true to my vow, so long as life warms the heart that will never acknowledge any master but him." 
               "My poor deluded child, you are resolved to give yourself over to destruction, I can well see. Read-read the warning I have just received, and see for yourself, the estimate the world puts upon the man you so proudly proclaim your husband." 
               Annie glanced over the lines, and her lip curled disdainfully. 
               "The base slander of a rival," she said. "I know the writer, and he may feel assured that if I could repudiate the sacred tie that binds me to him I love, it would never be to accept the homage of his affections. Mother, be reasonable; you will soon learn to love Edward as your own son." 
               "I never-never will forgive him, for so basely insinuating himself into your confidence, and persuading such a mere child as you are, to deceive all who are most deeply interested in her fate," said Mrs. Selden, violently. "The very facts of the case, show that the accusations brought against him are not groundless, or he would not so have shrouded his advances in mystery." 
               How long Mrs. Selden would have continued, is uncertain; for her excitement was so great, that all discretion was forgotten; but a sudden stop was put to her eloquence, by the appearance in the doorway, of Osborne himself; pale with passion, his dark eyes flashed with a lurid light, that might have withered whatever they fell upon. He had evidently overheard much that had passed; and striding forward, he drew Annie to his side, and confronted Mrs. Selden, who sat as if frozen beneath the stern frown of that youthful brow. He said: 
               "After my letter of last night, madam, I hoped to be spared this scene. Our relative positions were there distinctly defined, and I again reiterate, that I am neither to be trifled with nor abused. Neither will I permit my wife to be brow-beaten in this unseemly manner." 
               Mrs. Selden was complelely quelled. She faintly asked: 
               "What letter? I received none." 
               Constance now spoke. 
               "A paper without an address, was handed in at the door, about midnight. I opened it, and seeing that it contained news of Annie, I read it. That letter, Mr. Osborne, I did not judge fit to meet the eyes of my aunt; and I witheld it. On reflection, I am sure you will acknowledge that I was right. I do not understand how you can expect to conciliate your wife's family by harshness and insult. Some show of respect, is at least due to the wounded heart, from which you have wrenched its most cherished treasure." 
               The scowling glance of Osborne was fixed on Constance, while she thus spoke, but her clear eyes did not fall before it, and he felt that in one inmate of the house, at least, he met a spirit that would not quail before his imperious temper. 
               "She has no right to be here," he thought, "and I will soon get rid of her." He merely said, in a more courteous tone, than he had used to Mrs. Selden: 
               "This scene would have been spared, Miss Grey, had you suffered the letter to reach its destination. What I there said, I adhere to, and there is nothing like understanding the true position of all parties at once. I am not so ambitious of Miss Constance Grey's good opinion, as to sacrifice my own independence to gain it." 
               "O, Edward! do not say any thing to wound cousin Constance," whispered Annie. "She must stay with us, for she is the dearest and kindest of cousins." 
               The sternness melted from his brow, as he looked down at the lovely pleader, and he held out his hand to Constance, as he added: 
               "Pardon me, Miss Grey, I am naturally irritable, and the denunciations I have heard against myself this morning, have not tended to produce a placid state of feeling. It is said, that 'to him who loves much, much shall be forgiven,' and I assure you this little wild flower of mine is very dear to me. I would have practiced any stratagem, to win her, and I declare to you, upon my honor, it was only the knowledge of her mother's invincible dislike to me, that induced me to play the part I have been so successful in." 
               Constance reluctantly placed her hand in his, for a brief moment; for she intuitively felt that, in this violent and unprincipled man, she had made a relentless enemy by daring to speak the truth to him. 
               Osborne then turned to Mrs. Selden, and with affected pleasantry, said: 
               "Come, old lady, give us your hand, and say you don't bear malice. It is of no use, I tell you; for your daughter is mine, with her own free consent; and it is better to submit quietly, to what you can not help. Understand, there is one thing though, that I will not bear with. You are to speak no evil of me to Annie; if you think it, you can keep it to yourself, for she shall believe in me, whatever the rest of the world may think." 
               "I trust that she may," said Mrs. Selden, feebly, as she put forth her hand very slowly. Osborne took it in his, and made a show of pressing it to his lips. She inwardly shuddered, and recoiled from him, as from the touch of an adder; but she was so completely overmastered by him, that she dared not show it. 
               There were circumstances known only to herself, which would place her entirely at the mercy of her son-in-law, when she came to render up the stewardship of her daughter's estate; and with good reason did she shrink from more deeply embittering him against her. Since the marriage was irrevocable, Mrs. Selden felt that she must make the best of it; but the fear of future dependence, on such a man, was terrible. She well knew that when a settlement was demanded, the small independence bequeathed to her by her deceased husband, would be liable for the large inroads she had made on Annie's property, to support a style of living which was far beyond her means. 
               Left the sole guardian of her daughter, until her marriage, Mrs. Selden had appropriated the whole of her income, and even exceeded it frequently, in the sanguine belief, that Annie would make so brilliant a match, that the sums thus spent would be considered of trifling importance. She knew the Osborne family had always regarded themselves as defrauded of this property, and from herself a strict account would be demanded, by her needy and prodigal son-in-law. 
               While these troubled thoughts passed through her mind, Annie had again thrown her arms around her, and was murmuring her thanks for this show of reconciliation-her promises that her future affection should atone for the present grief. 
               Soothed by these assurances, Mrs. Selden gradually became more calm; and utterly exhausted by all she had gone through, she presently fell asleep, with her daughter's hand clasped in her own. 
               Osborne left the room, but in a few moments sent up a message for Annie to come down to him. She quietly withdrew her hand, though her mother stirred, and murmured her name; with scarcely a backward glance, the young bride flitted out of the room, with steps winged by love to obey the summons of her husband, and Constance felt that henceforth hers was more than a divided heart. 
               O, pale mother! who so tenderly loved her-so sedulously watched over her infancy and youth, sleep on if you can, until the last trump shall sound, for the affection that was your best blessing, has already passed to the stranger. To his voice-to his influence, she will now alone be obedient; and the love that is the offspring of nature and habit, must yield before the strong passion that fills every pulse of that young heart; thrills every nerve in her sensitive frame with a powerful, resistless, and delicious emotion. 
               If the happiness of this fair being was destined to be of brief duration, it was at least perfect while it lasted. Even her mother's displeasure and evident indisposition, had no power to dim it; for with the sanguine spirit of youth, she believed both must soon pass away, and her idolized Edward become as dear to her mother as though he were a son of her own. 
               She passed the morning in showing him all her favorite nooks, and prattling to him of the happy life they would lead. The place had been a portion of the property she inherited from his uncle, and Osborne walked with lordly tread over the house, and the small but highly cultivated grounds, with the intense consciousness that they were now his own. Annie had simply given him back his just rights; she was an interloper he would equally have endeavored to win, had she been ugly and unattractive. As it was, she was fair and loveable, and he regarded himself as fortunate that it was so. It rendered the yoke of matrimony easier to bear; and then his self-love was gratified that he had so completely made himself the master of the affections of this beautiful little fairy. 
               Constance excused herself from appearing at dinner, as her aunt needed her attention. Annie came into the room a few moments-caressed the pale inmates, uttered some cheering words, and then flew back to the companionship of her husband, forgetful, in his presence, of every other duty. 
               Clifford had called at an early hour, but on hearing that Mr. and Mrs. Osborne were in the house, he merely left a few lines for Miss Grey, and took his leave. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THUS flowed on the days of the honeymoon. Mrs. Selden kept her room, under the plea of indisposition, but received her son-in-law a few moments every morning, when each one made an effort to tolerate the other; but little progress was made toward that state of feeling Annie had sanguinely anticipated. 
               Annie, in her new position, found too many claims on her time and attention to do much more than pay a brief daily visit to her mother, and the invalid was dependent for companionship and consolation on her niece. These were rendered in full measure by the affectionate heart of Constance, and Mrs. Selden clung to her in her misfortunes with the trusting fondness of a child. 
               The star of the Osbornes seemed once more in the ascendant; and those who remembered them in their early days of prosperity, again gathered around the son and his fair bride. The disastrous fortunes of his father were tacitly cast into oblivion; and the brother and sister were welcomed by a large circle as favored guests. Barbara, on her brother's marriage, obtained an old lady as a companion to her mother, until arrangements could be made for Mrs. Osborne's final removal, and accepted the invitation of Annie to join in the festivities which followed her marriage. 
               Osborne had, indeed, established an open house, as he had promised his friend Wilson. Every day some new scheme of amusement was proposed, and, regardless of expense, each one was followed by the giddy pair, who seemed to think their resources inexhaustible. 
               Even when Mrs. Selden could spare her, Constance rarely participated in these entertainments, for her tastes led her to prefer a more quiet life; and she could not avoid seeing, when she did join them, that many persons were admitted familiarly to the house, who would never have obtained entrance to it under the rule of her aunt. Osborne was coldly polite to her, but for several weeks nothing happened to make her feel that her presence was an intrusion beneath his roof. 
               Barbara Osborne had gladly left the seclusion sion of the manor to enter scenes more congenial to her tastes. Again transplanted to the sphere she had been educated to adorn, her graceful manner and striking style of beauty rendered her an object of great attraction to the clique of gay young men, who had established themselves on a footing of intimacy in the house of her brother. 
               Among them, was one she had formerly known; he came from the same city in which the catastrophe of her father's ruin occurred, and had been a friend of the family in their palmy days of prosperity. The attentions of Mr. Underwood soon became so pointed, and her manner of receiving them was such as to leave no doubt on the minds of those who saw them together, that they were fast verging toward the bourne of matrimony. Yet it was also remarked, that Barbara played on the feelings of her admirer by flirting with the most attractive men in their circle, and seemed to enjoy the annoyance she inflicted on him, very much as a cat delights in the torments of the wretched little victim she tortures before devouring. 
               Mr. Underwood was not a handsome man; he had strongly-marked features, an ever-varying countenance, and a flowing eloquence in conversation, which rendered him deeply interesting to those women who had sufficient spirit and intellect to appreciate his superiority. 
               The singular being to whom he devoted himself, appeared at times deeply charmed by his conversation; but if he presumed on this apparent interest to approach the subject that lay nearest his heart, a chilling hauteur instantly took the place of the earnest interest with which she had so lately listened; and he felt himself baffled, he scarcely knew how. 
               Underwood was a man of impetuous feelings, and this system of tactics on the part of Miss Osborne, had the full effect the wily trifler expected, in increasing the passion she had inspired almost to madness. He was a man of independent fortune and cultivated tastes; his character was unexceptionable, and, therefore, in a worldly point of view, he was regarded as an excellent match for Barbara; but all these considerations had slight weight with her. 
               Confident in her own powers of attraction, she felt assured that her gleaming eyes and fascinating smile could bring to her feet any man she considered worthy the gift of herself. Underwood did not possess that great wealth which now could alone tempt one of her temper to take upon herself the bonds of marriage. What she called the humdrum happiness of domestic life, disgusted her; there was no longer in her chilled heart sufficient enthusiasm to kindle the tender devotion toward another, which she daily saw manifested by her young sister-in-law; and the only substitute she was willing to accept, was that brilliant existence led by a woman of superior intellect and great fortune, who could become the center of a circle of her own-to be a modern Aspasia, protected by her high position and blameless demeanor, from the arrows of defamation launched at the accomplished Greek. 
               Christmas week arrived, and the house was a continued scene of festivity. One evening, wearied by the din of voices, Barbara escaped from a late dinner party, and throwing a furred mantle around her, strolled into the shrubbery. The sun was sinking to his rest behind a pavilion of gorgeously-colored clouds, and the bracing winter air seemed like a revivifying elixir, as she walked through the deserted alleys planted with evergreens, on which lay a slight sprinkling of snow, like pearls in a setting of emerald. 
               Barbara had reached the furthest verge of the inclosure, when she heard a footstep rapidly following her. Glancing backward, she saw that Mr. Underwood had nearly overtaken her. She smiled sneeringly, wickedly, as she turned toward him and said: 
               "I did not think you would leave your wine so soon. I hoped to gain a few moments alone, that I might find the chatter of the parrots my brother fills his house with, more endurable on my return." 
               He did not seem to notice the bitter sarcasm of her tone, but rapidly replied: 
               "You knew that I would follow you, Barbara. You must feel that I will no longer be trifled with. I have reached that point at which no man worthy of the name will pause. I have sought you, I have wooed you in every way for weeks past; and the singular variations in your manner only madden me the more, that they are incomprehensible." 
               Barbara's eye glittered strangely as he thus spoke; and there was triumph in the curl of her haughty lip. There was a sharp ringing distinctness in the tones of her brief reply, which struck to his soul: 
               "Perhaps the past can furnish a clue." 
               A visible shudder passed over the frame of the strong man, and he grew deathly pale. 
               "Ah-is that shadow to come between us now?" he asked, in an altered voice. "Now when I have sought you again? when my heart has become so deeply enthralled by the encouragement you have openly given me? O, Barbara, answer me not thus!" 
               She laughed bitterly; and the wild gleam of her eyes was almost savage in its expression. 
               "Did you think me one to be thus played with, with impunity? Do you dare to estimate me so lowly, as to believe that you could successfully play off and on with me? and by a few passionate asseverations, win me to forget the deadly wrong you, in your base selfishness, committed against me when I was deserted by the rest of the world?" asked the girl, with repressed vehemence, while her frame actually trembled with the strong passion that moved her wild spirit. 
               Underwood ground his teeth, and clenched his hands violently together as she thus spoke; and he seemed to read in her kindling features the disdain the memory she referred to inspired. 
               "Barbara," he said, "why should you blame me for the fault of another? Have I not sought you again, with the first freedom of action I possessed. Listen to me, dearest Barbara, and be reasonable. You know well that the commands of my father sent me far from you, at a crisis when you and yours most needed my assistance. Then I had no power, for I was dependent; I was compelled to render obedience to him on whom my future prospects depended. I did so, that I might in time claim such a position as I could ask you to share. After the failure of your father, your family left home so suddenly, and concealed yourselves from your former friends so sedulously, that no trace of you could be found. When I heard of your brother's marriage, and your residence beneath his roof, I came hither immediately." 
               "O, yes," she tauntingly replied. "When the light of prosperity again dawned on us, it was easy to discover us; but when we were deserted, degraded, almost starving, one who had been loved by me, who had been betrothed to me, enjoyed the luxuries his fortune procured for him, without caring what had become of the young girl, who, in her prosperity, he had considered worthy the offer of his love. His love! a thing of circumstance! a dream that borrowed its luster from the light of prosperity alone! Know that I scorn it, as only a proud and bitter woman can scorn." 
               The lover almost cowered before the lightning glance of her eyes-from the disdainful quiver of her flexible lip. He ventured to say: 
               "And yet you admit that you once loved me, Barbara." 
               A change passed over her features; a tender and regretful feeling seemed to sweep over her mind, and she answered almost mournfully: 
               "It is true; I loved you once as the romantic and passionate dreamer, who has had no experience of the hollowness of life, the deceitfulness of man, may love; but the parched sands of the desert as well may invoke the memory of the refreshing shower which once spread life and vegetation on its surface, as you to recall that bitter and humiliating memory. Yes-I avow it-I did love you; I could with truth have said with the poet: 
                      
                        "'I had been nursed in palaces, 
                        But earth had not a spot so drear, 
                        That had not been a home to me, 
                        A Paradise, had you been near.' 
                     
                   In ruin and desolation I should, woman-like, only have clung to you with deeper affection. But you!-O, I shudder now, when I recall the hour in which I comprehended how dreary was the prospect spread before me, when the man who had seemed to live for me alone, forsook me with the common herd of parasites and flatterers, who had basked in the sunshine of our fortunes" 
               Underwood stood leaning against the trunk of a tree, whose leafless boughs spread over the pathway. He was pale from emotion; it seemed to him that Barbara was deare to him at that moment than ever before. He was deeply touched-strangely humiliated by her words. 
               "Barbara," he at length said, "you wrong me cruelly. I have not acted so base a part as you impute to me. Fearful that I might seek you in your misfortunes, my father sent me out of the country. He needed an agent to visit the West Indies, to attend to his interests there, and he banished me with the promise to seek out Mr. Osborne, and give him such employment as would enable him to make a support for his family. I have only returned within the last few weeks. Shall I then be blamed for the neglect of another to fulfill his promise?" 
               "It matters not, now," replied Barbara. "Admitting the validity of your excuse, what would you have? Do you suppose that a new passion can spring from the ashes of the old? If so, that complex thing, the human heart, must be a sealed mystery to you. A passion once cast into the oblivion of the past, is as completely annihilated as though it had never existed. Nay; the memory of it rather inspires disgust than any tender feeling. Learn, however, for your consolation, that the heart you would reclaim, has become so hardened by the harsh discipline it has undergone, that for no other will the weakness of love ever be felt. I have been bitterly taught of what consequence, in the eyes of the world, are the tangible evidences of prosperity, and I have learned my lesson well. In my turn, I disdain your position, your fortune, for they fall far below the meed of my ambition." 
               Underwood regarded her with amazement. 
               "And yet," he replied, "the world would think them quite worthy of your acceptance." 
               "The world always takes us at our own valuation. I intend to show it how much mistaken its judgments often are." 
               "If you had no intention of accepting me, Barbara, why have you received my attentions? Why endeavored to win me back?" 
               Barbara's hollow laugh rang out on the clear wintry air with a mocking cadence, and the unhappy man gazed on her with the awakening consciousness that beneath that fair exterior was concealed a depth of passion, disdain, and uncompromising resentment, from which he had nothing to hope. She at length said: 
               "I wooed you back, that the anguish of defeated hopes might recoil upon the heart that had crushed mine. I have also laid your pride in the dust; and now you may go, and upon the shattered hopes of the past, build up a future which that world, to whose opinion you once sacrificed truth and honor, may offer its hollow homage. I wish you all the happiness it may bring to you; and now I bid you adieu forever." 
               She waved her hand, passed rapidly before him, and in a moment was concealed from him by the intervening shrubbery. 
               Underwood sat down on a rustic bench near him, and pressing his hands upon his throbbing brow, recalled this singular interview. He felt stunned by the new revelation of character he had witnessed, and more strongly attracted than ever by the waywardness and resentment of Barbara. To rekindle the passion she abjured, would, indeed, be a triumph worth attempting. He felt self-condemned, for he knew that in the general outcry at the discovery of her father's delinquency, he had shrunk from the fulfillment of the engagement which existed between himself and the daughter of the ruined man; and he gladly availed himself of the violent opposition of his father to defer the marriage. He readily accepted the mission which took him far from her, when she most needed the support of his presence; but he had no idea that she so bitterly resented what he regarded as his compelled desertion. 
               He returned from Havana; inquired after the family, and found the brother and sister occupying their present position. The reproach against their father seemed to have been buried in the grave of the offender, and he, too, was ready to forget it. He sought Barbara, and became more deeply enamored than even in days of yore, and the consciousness of her utter disdain filled him with rage and despair. He must-he would make her forget the past. 
               With this determination, he smoothed his brow, and returned to the house. In pursuance of it, he sedulously sought the society of Barbara for many days; but the icy contempt of her manner soon convinced him that all hope was ended. 
                
               He left Alexandria abruptly, and visited Washington. Thither she, too, came before the winter was over, and ere she returned home, it was confidently rumored that the beautiful Miss Osborne would shortly become the bride of a distinguished Senator from the South, who was also a man of immense wealth. General Waldemar had been twice married, and was more than double her age; but Underwood remembered her words to himself, and he doubted not the truth of the rumors But we anticipate. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               NEARLY two months had elapsed since the marriage of Annie, and her warm love for her husband, her perfect trust in him, had not abated. She had, in that time, seen him impatient, and irritable toward others; but to her, he was as the tamed lion beside his keeper. He seemed, as yet, to regard her as a being set apart from the rest of the world, on whom too much love, too much indulgence could not be lavished. Thus Osborne daily acquired a deeper influence over her, and in her innocent heart she believed him incapable of wronging any human being. 
               The continued coldness existing between her mother and her beloved Edward, she attributed to a persevering desire, on her part, not to appreciate his merits. In him, no fault could lie, and, therefore, her unhappy mother must be wrong. 
               The first cloud to her happiness was now arising on the horizon of her home. Osborne was dissatisfied that Mrs. Selden had not yet offered to relinquish the management of her daughter's estate. His funds were getting low; old debts pressed heavily upon him, and he felt the necessity of speedily raising a supply. This he fully expected to obtain from the accumulated income of Annie's property, which must amount to a considerable sum. He knew that an allowance of a thousand dollars a year had been set aside for Annie's support and education, and the annual revenue was more than three thousand. The savings of seven years would be quite acceptable to him just now, and he calculated on them with a degree of certainty, that made his subsequent disappointment only the more difficult to bear. 
               He said to Annie, one morning: 
               "My dear little wife, does not your mother think me capable of understanding accounts, that she has never alluded to a settlement with me? I have not wished to confirm her erroneous belief that I married you for your property, therefore I have submitted thus long to be treated as a child. I wish you would speak to her, and let her know my wishes. I must look into things, and see if I can not find investments that will yield a larger return than we now receive." 
               Annie replied, without any hesitation, for she fully believed what he said: 
               "I have no doubt ma will be quite willing to get rid of the trouble, Edward, for I have often seen her vexed over such matters. I will tell her at once what you wish." 
               "Do," he emphatically replied. "And let her understand that I am in earnest, and do not choose to be put off any longer." 
               Annie scarcely heard the concluding words, for in her eagerness to gratify his slightest wish, she was already out of the room before they were uttered, and on her way to her mother. 
               She found Mrs. Selden languid and pale, but seemingly in tolerable spirits. She greeted her daughter with an affectionate smile, and said: 
               "I hope you have come to sit a little while with me, darling. Of late, it seems to me, I scarcely obtain more than a glimpse of you." 
               Annie blushed, for she felt her words almost as a reproach. 
               "We have had so much company, dear mother, that I had little time to bestow on you; but now that Christmas is over, we will be a little more quiet, I hope, and I shall be able to devote myself more to you. By the way, ma, Edward says that as he has less to occupy him just now, he can receive from you the troublesome trust of my property." 
               Annie paused, abruptly, for her mother became so deathly pale, that she was frightened. She anxiously asked: 
               "What is the matter? Is there any thing wrong about it?" 
               "Nothing that I should fear to reveal to a less interested man than Mr. Osborne," bitterly terly replied Mrs. Selden. "I have used the income of your estate, and he needs the money too much to pardon me for its appropriation." 
               "Mother," said Annie, reproachfully, "you are determined never to do justice to Edward. If you have exceeded the limits of my allowance, he will scarcely reproach you for it. There will be enough left, still; calm this agitation, I entreat you, and do not dread my husband, as if he were some terrible monster, ready to devour you." 
               "Ah, poor child, I pray that your delusion in regard to him may long continue," said her mother, sadly. "Tell Mr. Osborne that my accounts are ready. They have been so for some time, but I had not courage to precipitate the disclosure they will make. I wished some sunshine to fill your wedded home before the storm burst, that in years to come, you might not look upon it all as a cheerless blank." 
               "O, mother, how can you speak so unkindly? You will alienate my affections from you in spite of myself, if you persist in this injustice toward Edward." 
               "In sorrow and desolation they will flow back to me, my child, even with additional strength," mournfully replied Mrs. Selden. "Send Mr. Osborne thither, and if he bears this test as he should, then I will admit that I have been unjust to him." 
               With a vague feeling of discomfort, Annie left the room, and with lingering steps sought the one in which she had left her husband. She would not admit to her own heart that she feared his anger against one so near to her as her mother, but the words of Mrs. Selden had impressed her with a sense of timidity never before felt as she approached his presence. 
               Osborne stood by a window, wrapped in deep thought, and the expression of his dark face, as he turned toward her, was not calculated to give her more courage. He impatiently asked: 
               "What does she say? Is she quite ready?" 
               "I believe so; but-" 
               "But what?" he said, as she paused, uncertain how to proceed. "You seem in a strange flutter." 
               "O, no, love; I am quite composed; but-" 
               Again she hesitated, and he said, in an irritated tone: 
               "I will find out this important 'but,' myself; and, by the way, Annie, since we have begun on family matters, I may as well say something on another subject. My mother is tired of staying in that dismal old manor, and I think, myself, it is quite time she should be with us. There is no apartment that can be appropriated to her use, except the one occupied by your cousin. Miss Grey must, therefore, relinquish the chamber she now has, and share your mother's jointly with her. 
               This proposal surprised and wounded Annie. 
               "My mother has been in possession of her present apartment for many years, and she has so long been mistress here, that I really think she will feel such a proposal as an unkindness," said Annie. "Besides, my cousin might consider it a hint that her presence can be altogether dispensed with. Barbara has a large airy apartment-why can not she and your mother occupy it together?" 
               "I see you are vastly more considerate for your mother than for mine," replied Osborne coldly, and he passed from the room with a heavy and determined step, every echo of which sent a painful thrill to the heart of her who awaited him. 
               Poor Annie sat down and wept bitterly. They were the first tears shed by her since her marriage, and as they fell, a vision of a house, divided against itself, arose before her. She had a bright, loving spirit, and the idea of discord in her home was terrible to her. How could she so arrange it that the two mothers-in-law should be satisfied, and her beloved cousin not be forced to relinquish the sanctum she had so long called her own? She puzzled her little head in vain; the limits of the house could not be enlarged, as by the wand of some enchanter, and she came back to the same point forever: that Mrs. Osborne must take a room with Barbara, or Constance be forced on her mother. 
               Poor child! If she had only known the scene that was taking place between Osborne and Mrs. Selden, she might have spared herself so much thought; for affairs were there verging to such a crisis, that it was by no means likely her roof would long shelter her mother at all. 
               Osborne entered the room of Mrs. Selden with a heavy frown upon his brow, and greeted her with an expression of cold mistrust, which sufficiently revealed the state of his feelings toward her. 
               "I am sorry," he began, "that I was forced to demand this settlement myself. It seems to me, madam, that an estate so long held in trust for the rightful heir, should have been relinquished to him so soon as he was in a position to claim it." 
               "I do not understand you," said Mrs. Selden, regarding him with amazement. 
               "And yet I speak very plain English, I fancy. I have always looked on this property as mine, if justice had been done; and so far from feeling that your daughter has bestowed wealth upon me, I think that I have only reclaimed my own by taking her for my wife." 
               "Your ideas are very singular, I must say," replied Mrs. Selden. "Your uncle certainly had a right to dispose of his fortune as he pleased." 
               "We will waive that discussion just now, if you please, madam, as matters of more importance press upon our attention. I need ready money very much, and the sum that has accumulated during Annie's minority must be large. I wish to invest it in a speculation that promises to pay well." 
               "I am sorry to inform you, then, that no such sum exists," said Mrs. Selden, thinking, in her desperation, that the abrupt announcement of the fact would be quite as well received as if circumlocution were used. Osborne started up, livid with rage and disappointment. 
               "What-what can you mean, madam?" he furiously demanded. "Have you dared to expend what you knew you had no legal claim on?" 
               The sight of his unmanly fury, restored calmness to Mrs. Selden, and she quietly replied: 
               "In all I have done, I have acted for the promotion of what I considered the true interests of my daughter. Before this bequest came to her, we were in limited circumstances, and lived plainly. I knew that if I would secure my child the position to which she was entitled, I must establish one for myself before she was of an age to enter society. To do this, my own resources were not sufficient, I therefore considered it right to spend what was left nearly at my own discretion. I will add, however, that if I could have foreseen how all my anxiety for her welfare was to end, I should not thus have subjected myself to the ill usage I am likely to receive from the man my daughter has so childishly preferred." 
               By the time Mrs. Selden had finished speaking, Osborne recovered a portion of his self-command. He said, with sarcastic emphasis: 
               "You can easily escape it madam, by choosing another home, since peace will no longer be an inmate of mine, if we both continue to inhabit it. 
               This proposal took Mrs. Selden quite by surprise. Such a contingency as being actually turned out of her daughter's house, had never occurred to her. The thought of leaving Annie entirely at the mercy of this cold-hearted and unprincipled man, was so terrible to her, that she was ready to make any concession to him. She faltered out: 
               "I-I have a small settlement from my husband's estate. It will suffice to pay you a handsome remuneration for my board, and supply my other wants beside. I am willing to make this arrangement, to prevent the scandal which leaving your house would occasion." 
               "I do not care for gossip," said Osborne, coolly. "As to this settlement, I could take it from you, in payment of the money you have used; but on the condition that you leave my house, and take your niece with you, I will permit you to retain it." 
               Mrs. Selden burst into a violent passion of tears. 
               "This is worse than I believe even you would be capable of acting," she sobbed. "How will you excuse this treatment of me to my daughter?" 
               "She is my wife, madam, and thinks all I do right. That she may remain in this pleasant delusion, I banish one who loses no opportunity of endeavoring to lower me in her estimation." 
               "I will do so no more," pleaded the unhappy happy mother. "If you will permit me to remain, I will put a restraint upon myself. Let me only stay near my child, and I will forgive all: she is all I have, and you know not how fondly I love her. I shall die if I can not see her-hear her voice-feel the influence of her presence daily about me." 
               Even the convulsive emotion with which this was uttered, did not move him. He cavalierly replied: 
               "All sentimental nonsense. I do not prohibit you from visiting her as often as you may desire it; but go now you must; so you may as well make up your mind to it. And mind, madam, Annie is to believe that it is your own choice to leave, or maybe I shall trouble you yet about the appropriation of that money. Please to hand me over the accounts, and I will examine them in my own room." 
               Mrs. Selden silently pointed to a portfolio which lay open before her; and, taking it up, her hopeful son-in-law departed, closing the door after him with a violent bang. 
               The apartment of Constance joined that of her aunt; she overheard the loud tones of Osborne's voice, and knew that a scene was passing which Mrs. Selden had so intensely dreaded. So soon as she heard the door close after Osborne, she came in to her aunt to offer such consolation as she was able to give. 
               "O! Constance-Constance!" murmured the afflicted mother, as her niece clasped her hand tenderly in her own. "He was more unfeeling than even I expected! He drives me from his house! And Annie-my darling Annie-will be left entirely to his mercy. O! my heart will break!" 
               Constance sat down beside her, and the tender composure of her manner communicated its influence to the agitated mother. 
               "My dear aunt, I have seen for some time that this rupture must occur. For your sake, I have remained where I felt I was not welcome, to be a support to you when you most needed it. Reginald and I have talked over our plans, in view of the present crisis; and your consent is now only needed to put them in execution." 
               "What have you determined on, my child? Such I may now indeed call you, for you have proved truer to me than my own." 
               "Hush, aunt. Do not blame poor Annie. This blow will be scarcely less severe to her than it is to you; but she must acquiesce in the will of her husband." 
               "But the wretch insists that she shall believe it is I who will seek another home! I, who would bear any thing to remain near her!" 
               "It is better thus, than to reveal a truth which must deeply wound her," replied Constance, gently. "Annie's adoring love for her husband is the only sweet drop in the bitter cup I fear she must quaff. Leave him her confidence, dearest aunt, and pray that she may ever remain blind to his great faults." 
               Mrs. Selden sighed heavily. 
               "It is hard to bear a suspicion of unkindness toward my only child; but I feel that you are right, Constance. I will take up this cross, at the bidding of Him who can bring all things right in the end." 
               "Put your trust there, indeed, my beloved aunt, and you will be comforted, even in such grief as this," said Constance, tenderly. 
               After a pause, Mrs. Selden asked: 
               "What are the plans you referred to, my love?" 
               "When Annie was first married, Mr. Clifford exacted from me a promise to give him the right to protect me whenever I found my residence here unpleasant. He has been steadily making his arrangements for this crisis, and there need be no unnecessary delay in giving him my hand. A good farmer has taken the land around the Manor in partnership with him, and this spring will put it under cultivation. The rooms his father furnished for Mrs. Osborne will be immediately vacated by her, and a third one adjoining them Reginald will fit up for your use. Your own furniture can be removed thither, and you will thus be surrounded by objects that are familiar to you. Judge S-will permit Reginald to take down with him such books as he may need, and there, in our own quiet home, he can study to much better advantage than in town. He will keep a cabriolet, and bring you over every week to see Annie; and she can also visit us. Your life will be very different from the one you have led here, dearest aunt; but we will do our best to make you feel the change as little as possible." 
               "No change can now affect me much," was the gloomy reply. "But I will do my best not to cast a shadow over the home that is opened to receive me. I accept your offer, Constance: to you I leave it to express my gratitude to Mr. Clifford for his consideration for me. O! if my poor child had only chosen such a man!" 
               Again she burst into violent sobbing, and Constance thought it best to permit her grief to have its way: she, therefore, persuaded her to lie down, and left her in solitude. 
               Constance returned to her own room, and addressed to Clifford the communication he had been expecting to receive every day for several weeks. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR FRIEND:
                            
                           "The hour we anticipated has arrived, and it has resulted as we feared. My aunt must leave the shelter of this roof, and I comply with the promise I have pledged to you. To-day is Monday; on Wednesday morning at ten o'clock I will meet you in the Episcopal church we usually attend, and there ratify the vows we have made to each other. 
                           
                              CONSTANCE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This note she dispatched to Clifford by Stephen. He speedily returned with a page of such glowing thanks and rapturous happiness, as made even the quiet Constance blush, and feel a blissful thrill playing around her heart, in spite of the unpleasant circumstances which impelled her to this hurried union. 
               At dinner she found Annie very pale and downcast, and she saw evident traces of recent weeping in her heavy and swollen eyes; but Osborne seemed unconscious of her depression. There was no company that day, yet he talked more than usual; he even asked Miss Grey to take wine with him, which was an unusual attention; but as he saw a prospect of soon being relieved of her presence, he could afford to be polite. 
               Osborne had been greatly irritated at the loss of the money; but in his secret soul he felt almost consoled for it, by the consciousness that he would thus be released from the constant observation of the two persons most warmly interested in the happiness of his wife. He was beginning to feel terribly weary of his conjugal tenderness-the honeymoon had lasted long enough, in all conscience; and once rid of those for whom he was forced to show some outward respect, he would suffer his devoted little Annie to comprehend her true position toward himself. 
               Constance felt that it would be unkind to conceal her intended marriage from her cousin, an hour longer than was absolutely necessary; and in the afternoon, when she knew Annie to be alone in her chamber, she went to her. In a few simple words she made the communication which filled Annie with surprise, but at the same time relieved her from her dilemma concerning the arrangements for Mrs. Osborne's reception. 
               "My dear cousin," she said, "I thought Mr. Clifford would not be able to marry until the suit is decided." I hoped to keep you with me a year or two at least." 
               "We think it best to fix our fate at once; and the removal of Mrs. Osborne leaves us a home in the Manor prepared for our reception." 
               "I rejoice sincerely in your happiness, believe me, dearest cousin; but how will my poor mother do without you? I have so many other claims upon me now, that I can not be with her much; and then, you know, you have always been her nurse and companion." 
               "We have thought of all this," replied Constance, gently; and, therefore, your mother thinks it will be best to accompany me." 
               Annie opened her eyes wide with amazement. It was evidently the first time such an idea had been suggested to her. 
               "Leave me!" she exclaimed. "Why, what on earth should she do that for? I never will consent to such a thing." 
               "But, Annie-dear Annie, listen to me, and be influenced by the truths I must tell you. Your mother and husband do not like each other; their residence beneath the same roof seems only to have embittered the original distaste; and you have proved no bond of union between them. It is best that she should go with me; she feels that she is no longer necessary to your happiness; that another influence has superseded hers; and she loves you too much to see this daily manifested, and be happy." 
               "Is it, then, my mother's wish to leave me?" asked Annie, tremulously. 
               "My darling, never doubt your mother's affection for you, one moment," replied Constance, evasively. "Respect her determination, and do not torture her by opposing what is positively decided on." 
               "Decided! and without even consulting me! O, Constance, I feel that I have been treated very-very unkindly. It is hard that my own mother should be jealous of my love for my husband;" and she wept bitterly. 
               "She will be more reasonable in time to come, Annie. Control your emotion, my dear girl, and believe that kindness toward you has been the first consideration with both your mother and myself." 
               "You manifest it in a most extraordinary manner, I must say," rejoined Annie, half petulantly. 
               Poor child! This was the first really dark day in her life's experience, and she felt as if sorrows were acumulating around her steps. She sought her mother, and vehemently remonstrated against her departure; but sustained by the presence of her niece, Mrs. Selden remained firm to her purpose, and yet did not betray that she went at the absolute command of Osborne, 
               At length Annie left her, exhausted by her tears and emotion, and returned to her own apartment; she there found her husband, and leaning her throbbing brow upon his perfidious breast, revealed to him the determination of her mother to desert her home for that of her cousin. 
               She had no suspicion how welcome this news would be to him, and she listened to his soothing words-his specious reasons for thinking her mother had decided rightly, until her sobs ceased, the burden was partially lifted from her heart, and she began to see things in the same light in which he viewed them: 
               O, strange power of love, which can thus pervert truth and nature! Annie was consoled; her mother wished to leave her, therefore it would be best for both that they should part. But while she bathed her eyes and endeavored to assume her usual cheerfulness in the presence of her husband, her mother lay upon her solitary couch, in a paroxysm of anguish, for which there was no consolation. Mrs. Selden could scarcely have felt more deeply, had she been called on to lay her daughter in the grave, than she did at the most cruel mandate which drove her from the roof she had so long regarded as her own; but for this, Osborne cared not. He had too long felt the restraint of her presence, to be scrupulous as to the means of ridding himself of her forever. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               WEDNESDAY morning dawned bright and cold; clear and sparkling was the gleaming sunshine, and not a cloud floated on gossamer wings over the dark blue concave, which arched above the earth, as a solid wall of sapphire, flooded with the effulgence of the orb of day. 
               Two carriages drove to the door of the Episcopal church at an early hour of the morning. One was occupied by four ladies, and the other by as many gentleman. The clergyman was waiting to receive the bridal party, and without any parade, with scarcely the knowledge of their most intimate friends, Reginald Clifford, and Constance Grey were united. 
               From the church door, she accompanied him to the Manor, which had been vacated by Mrs. Osborne on the previous day; and the remainder of the party returned to the residence of Osborne. 
               In a week, Mrs. Selden was to take possession of the apartment which was preparing for her, and from that time, become a permanent resident beneath the roof of Clifford. 
               Constance on her arrival at her future home, found that every portion of the old house had been put in good order, and the wing appropriated to her use had a cheerful home-like aspect that warmed her heart. Her books, music, and a few pictures she loved, had been transferred from her late home, and now greeted her as old familiar friends. 
               Preparations had been made for their reception, by the old woman who was in the service of Mrs. Osborne, aided by Mrs. Selden's attendant, who had been sent out to superintend the arrangement of her mistress's apartment. A neat repast was spread before the newly married pair, for which Annie's forethought had provided even orange flowers, that the bridal table might be properly decorated. 
               But the two who sat beside it, earnestly engaged in conversation, scarcely tasted the delicacies prepared for them. When dinner was over, Clifford proposed to show Constance her new realm; together they explored the vast and empty rooms, where walnut, carved in many quaint devices, gloomed darkly from the lofty walls; and the old-fashioned fireplaces, built more than a century before, had small oval pictures, painted on porcelain, inserted in a half circle over the mantel. Several of these, representing fruit and flowers, were exquisitely colored, and Constance paused to admire them. 
               "It was once my dream," said Clifford, "to restore this old place to its original splendor, whenever the estate came into my possesssion. Now, I see no better fate for the home of my fathers than to suffer it to fall to decay." 
               "Hope on, hope ever," replied Constance, with a bright smile. "The power to do so, may yet be yours; and apropos to that, I may inquire the probable fate of your lawsuit?" 
               Clifford shook his head. 
               "It drags on so slowly, that years must elapse before any certainty can be obtained, It is useless, however to complain of the glorious delays of the law." 
               "And the title-deeds? Do you think they have been lost, or placed by your father with the treasure he so strangely concealed?" 
               "A singular interview I had last fall with a stranger, induced me to think the deeds had been stolen; but on reflection, I abandoned that idea, and I now think that my father, while acting under the singular mad ness which at times obscured his mind, must have placed them with the money." 
               "Tell me what this stranger said, Reginald. Perhaps I may see it in a different light." 
               "A man, so disguised that I could never have recognized him again, followed me from town one night, when I came to visit my father. He offered to restore to me the means of quashing the suit at once, if I would give him a fair equivalent for doing so." 
               "Why did you not accept his offer? Perhaps he really knew something of the lost papers." 
               "I acted from impulse, but I afterward endeavored to gain another interview with him. I caused an advertisement to be inserted in the papers, which he alone could understand; nothing resulted from it, and I concluded the man was some sharper, who had heard of the intended suit, and thought by following me in so mysterious a manner, to induce me to give him all the money I might chance to have about my person, as a retaining fee for the service he offered." 
               "Very likely, as it ended thus. Could we ever afford to restore the old place, this would make a fine drawing-room. The view from the windows would be charming if the trees were only pruned. At all events, dear Reginald, we shall, I trust, be very happy here. I love the country dearly, and have often thought I was really born to love pigs and chickens." 
               "I am glad to hear it," said Clifford, laughing. "I had no suspicion before, that your tastes leaned that way; you may have as many such subjects as you like, provided their charms do not defraud me of my legitimate share in your affections." 
               "I do not know," she saucily replied, "If you are as useful as the chickens, and as harmless as the pigs, perhaps I may continue to think you of as much importance to my happiness as-as you now are." 
               "Ah! the last is a saving clause, fair Constance. Without it we might have chanced to commence our honey-moon with a quarrel. Now let us proceed to the room occupied by my father. When there, I will relate to you some strange scenes, in which Barbara bara Osborne played an important part. I have hitherto withheld them from you, because I knew you would be thrown together, and I did not wish to create a prejudice against her in your mind." 
               Together they entered the dreary-looking apartment, which remained exactly as it had been it left on Mr. Clifford's decease. Constance listened with deep interest to Reginald's revelation. At its close she remarked: 
               "The brother and sister are a singular pair. They have talent and tact, to make their way in life honorably, yet both seem to have inherited the spirit of intrigue, and utter want of principle, which distinguished their unfortunate father. Barbara must have induced your father to act as he did in regard to yourself. I have not a doubt that she fully expected to come in possession of the whole sum obtained by the mortgage." 
               "Such was also my own thought, but we have no right to judge her too harshly." 
               "Have you thoroughly examined every crevice in this room?" inquired Constance, as she stepped lightly from plank to plank in the floor to see if they would yield beneath her weight. 
               "I have, and am certain that the treasure was not concealed here." 
               Constance took from a corner a heavy cane, with a quaintly carved head. As she examined it, she found that it was loosely screwed on, and on removing it, a small roll of paper fell on the floor, which had been carefully concealed in the hollowed head. 
               Her heart beat quickly as she snatched it up, and read these words: 
               
                  "MY SON,-Reginald Clifford, will always keep this cane as a bequest from his affectionate father. In years to come it may prove a staff on which to lean when he most needs it."
                
               "Can this be a covert allusion to the concealed treasure?" asked Constance, pale with emotion, as she handed the paper to Clifford. 
               He examined it carefully, and after pondering on its meaning, said: 
               "If it is, I can make nothing of it. I must, to use my father's words, 'await the hour and the time,' and perhaps the clue may be furnished. The cane I will carefully preerve as a keepsake from him." 
               Together they then returned to the sitting room, and as twilight drew its dusky folds around them, they were still absorbed in earnest conversation. The bright fire glowed more brightly, as if joyful with the joy of the loving hearts now linked together for the pilgrimage of life. And Trust, Faith and Hope, sat beside that glowing hearth, and laid their blessinng upon the pair who sat with clasped hands, and earnest eyes, discussing the best means of rendering another happy; of bringing back peace to the wounded heart of the exiled mother. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               BRIGHT were the days that followed this quiet bridal, and Clifford, on each one, found some new trait of gentleness and womanly affection to admire in his beloved Constance. The weather continued beautiful, and every portion of the old domain was explored; alterations and improvements planned, to be executed when spring opened; and Constance returned from these expeditions with a brilliant glow upon her cheek, and a sparkle of happiness in her bright eyes, that were delightful to behold. A healthy, happy home-spirit she possessed, and Reginald saw, with delight, that the pleasures of city life were not likely to be regretted by her. 
               Mrs. Selden, at the appointed time, came to them. She was accompanied by Annie, who had recovered her spirits, and seemed reconciled to her separation from her mother. This gave Mrs. Selden firmness to conceal her sufferings, and only by her paleness and uncommon quietness, could any one gain a clue to what was passing in her heart. 
               In reply to Clifford's courteous inquiries after her husband, Annie said: 
               "Edward could not accompany us. He had business of importance to attend to, so I ran away from him for the first time since I was married. Aside from your presence here, this old house has a great attraction for me. Edward never would suffer me to tell you that my marriage took place here. Why, I do not know, unless it was because it was attended by such singular circumstances." 
               "What were they?" asked Constance, in surprise. "I have always believed that you were married in the neighboring village, and came here after the ceremony was performed." 
               "Yes-I know that was the impression given you all at home, but on this spot I was commanded to marry Edward, by a messenger from another world, and I fainted from fright. When I recovered, I obeyed the command, for it came to me with the authority of my deceased father." 
               Annie grew pale at the remembrance of that scene, so artfully prepared; and to the earnest questions that assailed her, she gave a graphic description of it in all its details. 
               Her auditors exchanged glances of deep meaning, but neither one dared say a word to shake her faith in the reality of the super-natural interference. The evil was consummated, and her heart and life devoted to the impostor; why, then, should they seek to unmask the delusion? 
               When she had concluded her relation, she added: 
               "You must promise me never to betray what I have told you to Edward. O, he would be so angry, and I know his anger is tearible, for I have seen it fall on others, until I, who never received a frown from him, actually trembled." 
               "Have no fear of our indiscretion, dear Annie," said Constance. "From that source, no harm shall ever reach you, be assured. That you may ever preserve your present influence over your husband, is the earnest prayer of all hearts that love you. But the unfortunate child who possesses this unhappy power, if such a thing can really be? what is to be his fate, subjected in his tender infancy to such injurious excitement?" 
               "His health has suffered from it, and Barbara says she will never again permit him to exercise his spiritual gifts. He is a strange child, and sits for hours moping alone, with his hands clasped over his eyes. I have tried to amuse him since he has been with me, but he neglects the toys I have bought for him, and seems forever dreaming." 
               "Poor boy! it is an unnatural condition for a child to be in," said Constance, compassionately. 
               Annie seemed to be absorbed in a painful reverie for some moments, but she shook it off, and said: 
               "Come, coz, let us run all over this dear old house. It is so romantic to live in such a place; only I am afraid I should soon grow dreadfully tired of the grim shadows and echoing walls. I intend to come out here two or three times a week, and pay you flying visits. Edward has bought a new pair of ponies, that go like the wind, and I can be driven here in little more than an hour." 
               "Your bright face will always be welcome to me, Annie, and doubly so to your mother." 
               Annie flitted through the house, admired the arrangements of her mother's apartment; appreciated the delicate kindness which had selected paper for the walls, as nearly similar to that in her old accustomed room as possible, and came back to the sitting-room to chatter away in her usual lively manner. 
               An early tea was served, and amid smiles and tears, she bade them farewell, reiterating her promise to visit them very, very often. She was perfectly sincere at the moment, but circumstances, over which she had no control, intervened, to prevent her from making more than two hurried visits in as many weeks. The last one was a farewell call, preparatory to leaving her home to spend the remainder of the winter in Washington. Then letters came from her punctually, in which she detailed the gayeties in which she constantly mingled; and the admiration Barbara elicited. Toward the latter part of her stay, Constance thought she could perceive a change in these epistles-they seemed to be written with effort, and the spirits of the writer were obviously jaded by the constant excitement in which she lived. It did not escape those so deeply interested in her happiness, that toward the last, her husband was scarcely alluded to in them, and they drew painful auguries therefrom. 
               At first, Mrs. Selden was gloomy and self-absorbed, but she made an effort to recover her serenity, and the quiet, cheerful influence of Constance, gradually won her to take an interest in the improvements she was making. As the bright spring weather opened, the trees were pruned, the weeds removed from the lawn, the fences repaired, and a thrifty garden planted. 
               Mrs. Selden fortunately had great fondness for flowers, and under her superintendence the embellishment of the yard was placed. The shell of an old hot-house stood on one side of the lawn; this was repaired and painted, and soon a collection of rare and beautiful plants bloomed beneath her fostering care. 
               Exercise in the open air, pleasant and affectionate companionship, had their natural influence; and even the absence of the child from whom she had once hoped never again to be parted, could not entirely shadow her life. She became more warmly attached to Constance every day, and shrunk from the idea of returning to the life of vanity in which she had once delighted. The uses of adversity had indeed been blessed to her, and from suffering sprang the humble spirit of endurance. She felt that the fate of her daughter was in the hands of Him who is "mighty to save as well as to destroy," and she yielded her up to that guiding love, with the confidence of a child looking to her father for help and protection from the evil she felt must surely come. 
               Clifford devoted many hours of the day to intense study, and he confidently hoped in the fall to be able to abide the ordeal of his examination. His evenings he gave to the society of his little family; and music, reading and conversation, occasionally varied by a game of chess, passed away the time agreeably. 
               Many of their friends sought them out in their retirement, and pleasant were the little social groups that gathered beneath the old roof, in which a new spirit of joy was diffused. People forgot the Manor had ever had the reputation of being haunted; for evil spirits could not exist in the atmosphere of sunshine which now pervaded it. 
               Constance, true to her avowed love for pigs and chickens, had a perfect colony of each in a short time; but the former were banished to a respectable distance from the house, and given over to the especial charge of Aunt Dinah, the cook. Her bees, her poultry, and her small dairy, did not occupy her, however, to the exclusion of higher things. An innate perception of order and fitness, enabled her to dispatch the real business of the day in the early hours of the morning, and then she had time to devote to the cultivation of her mind, and the fitting adornment of her person. 
               Clifford's fastidious taste was never shocked by seeing his wife in an untidy or ill-fitting dress, nor her hair hanging carelessly about her face. As purely, delicately neat she always was, as in the days of their courtship. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               IN the meantime, how had things sped with Annie? The departure of her mother from her roof was the signal of a change that amazed her. She had thought their life a gay one before, but now her husband seemed never satisfied to be left a moment alone. 
               A set of very gay young men were his constant companions, and Annie soon made the appalling discovery, that Osborne played deep, and was often so much disguised by wine as to be incapable of conducting himself with propriety. She ventured once to offer a timid remonstrance, but such a storm of anger greeted her, that she fled from him with a heart half broken by his unkindness. 
               After Mrs. Selden's departure, he took no pains to conceal his indifference from his unhappy wife-the vail was rudely torn from before her eyes, through the magic medium of which she had beheld him as a species of demigod; yet her deep affection for him did not waver. The faithful woman's heart within her bosom clung even to the worthless thing around which it had entwined its fervent love. 
               Annie keenly felt that her extreme youth, her inexperience, inspired no respect in her husband; and if her tenderness, her forbearance, failed to win him from the error of his ways, she was powerless; her future life a sad mockery of the devoted affection she had trusted would be the warming light of her wedded home. She made the bitter discovery, that to depend on a man without principle-to build hopes of happiness upon his faith, truth, or honor, is like the want of forethought in a child who makes a flourishing looking garden, by cutting off the most beautiful flowers and sticking them into the earth, without roots to sustain them. 
               Yet Annie had great pride, and a much greater degree of firmness than might have been expected from one of her years. She had bound herself to Osborne, and, come what would, she would endure her fate with the patience of the martyr. Act as he might, her lips should never unclose to complain of the man she had preferred before all others. 
               In this spirit she played the part required of her with outward calmness, but often with a bleeding heart. She sometimes wondered at her own self-command; but this great disenchantment came so suddenly upon her, that she was stunned by the force of the blow. 
               Since the removal of her mother, Osborne no longer took pains to deceive her into the belief that he regarded her in any other light than as a being belonging absolutely to himself, who had no right to complain of his neglect, nor to weep at his often brutal harshness. Her husband was one of those men who are rendered savage by intoxication, and his hapless wife soon learned to avoid his presence when under the influence of wine. Even this often excited his anger; and he taunted her with loss of affection for one she had so madly loved, as to defy warning and parental authority to wed. Annie would not reply to him, but would shrink away, weeping and trembling, with a load of wretchedness at her heart, which must ultimately either crush or embitter it. 
               But we anticipate. Before matters arrived at this unhappy crisis, they visited Washington. In that city, Osborne met with many congenial associates; and it was there his first neglect of his young wife became so conspicuous as to attract remark. Barbara had enticed her brother thither, that among the many distinguished men assembled there from all parts of the Union she might make choice of one on whom to practice her wiles, whose position could fulfill the conditions she required in the man she would bestow her hand upon. 
               Her selection was soon made. General Waldemar, a very wealthy planter from Florida, was considered the best match of the season. He was a portly, ruddy-looking personage, of about fifty years of age, who had already buried two wives. He had but one child, a son, who had long since left the paternal roof for a home of his own. 
               Barbara resolved to escape as soon as possible from what she foresaw must become the discordant home of her brother, to one of her own. She did not overrate her own tact; in two weeks from her introduction to General Waldemar, the wooing was accomplished, and she was the betrothed of the wealthy Southerner. Deeply enamored by her fascinating style of beauty, her lover lavished on her the most magnificent presents; and the trousseau he insisted on presenting to her, was the envy of all the disappointed aspirants to the position she was about to fill. 
               Barbara's triumph was complete; for her brilliant path was often crossed by a proud and disappointed looking man, to whom she rejoiced to show her complete oblivion of the past. Amid the gay crowd that assembled to witness her marriage, she missed that face from which her own had once borrowed the light of a passion that left in her blighted heart no room for a second; and her lip curled with a haughty smile, as she thought that he dared not remain to witness her union with another. She had entered a new and more brilliant sphere, while the unforgotten past still rankled in his heart, and refused to give him back the peace his own worldliness had destroyed. 
               General Waldemar insisted that Mrs. Osborne and her young son should become permanent inmates of his family, and at the adjournment of Congress, they bade adieu to Annie and her husband, and accompanied the newly wedded pair to their Southern home. 
               A magnificent residence, with a train of servants ready to obey every behest of their new mistress, awaited Barbara. Every attention was lavished on her by the friends of her husband, while he himself never wearied of gratifying her slightest whim. She liked General Waldemar; admired the elegant suavity of his manners, and felt that her lot should be a happy one; but amid all her prosperity, there was one grief, for which there was no remedy. 
               Bitter and remorseful were her feelings as she gazed upon the child she had loved from his birth with the native intensity of her character, and felt that she had wickedly tampered with that most mysterious and subtle essence, a human and immortal spirit, to its utter destruction. 
               Since the scenes in which Harry played so conspicuous a part at the manor, he had visibly failed in health, until his wasted form was a mere frame; and the mind which had once been precocious beyond his years, gradually sunk into a species of leaden stupor strongly resembling idiotcy. He would remain for hours perfectly motionless, staring on vacancy, and to the efforts that were made to arouse him from such inactivity, he opposed tears and lamentations, so violent in their character, as to threaten dissolution to his attenuated frame. 
               He would sometimes say, "You have driven my angels away. It is dark-dark-dark-" and the last words were dwelt on so mournfully, as to touch the coldest heart. 
               The most eminent medical skill was consulted, amusement was provided, and change of scene sought, but all in vain. The mind still continued, in his own affecting words, to grow dark, darker with the lapse of time; and the physicians were unanimously of the opinion that some violent and unnatural excitement, had subjected the young faculties to an unhealthy tension; and the mind in consequence was a ruin. 
               Time they said could only deepen the evil, which proved true. Harry under the system adopted, improved in physical health. He could once more run and bound in the playful gambols of childhood, but his painfully vacant face, revealed that the spirit within was vailed forever. 
               This was the punishment of the worldly sister. She knew that this was her work; that the brightening fortunes of her family had alone prevented her from making this young being a spectacle to the world for money, and now the soul she had tampered with so fatally, God had withdrawn from her influence forever, and left her only the casket on which to lavish her love and care. 
               And here we take our final leave of Barbara. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               ANNIE returned with her husband to the house which was now inexpressibly dreary to her. She felt the loneliness of her position, and ventured to ask that her mother might be solicited to return to her, now his own family had departed. Osborne met her request with a stern and peremptory refusal, but it was softened by a partial return of his former fondness for her. 
               For a brief season, she was cheered by the hope, that now they were thrown entirely together, he would turn to her for companionship and sympathy. She did not yet comprehend that his only idea of happiness was unlimited self-indulgence and constant excitement. In the first months of their union, her devotion elicited a faint spark of corresponding emotion, but he was already weary of it, because he felt himself incapable of appreciating or returning it. If he could have found any decent pretext for doing so, he would have rid himself of the burden of her presence long before the first year of their union expired. 
               While his good humor lasted, he one day entered her room with some papers in his hand, and said: 
               "Your signature is wanting here, Annie. Too much of our property is in real estate, that does not yield as much as other investments. I intend selling it, and appropriating the money to other purposes." 
               Annie knew very little of business, but she was by this time fully aware that Osborne was a gambler, and she feared to permit the whole of their estate to pass into his hands, to do with as he pleased. She ventured to say: 
               "The present income, well managed, is much more than we need, dear Edward; and if I may advise, I would say let things remain as they are. You know little of business, and may be defrauded in making the exchange." 
               Osborne gave her one of his dark glances. 
               "Hey day, who taught you the value of money? And who has counselled you to refuse what I ask?" he angrily demanded. 
               "No one, Edward! I only speak as my own judgment dictates. Those who are older and wiser than we are, made the present investments, and I think, in this case, it will be best to 'let well enough alone.'" 
               "You think!" sneered Osborne. "Really, I did not know before that you aspired to the character of a thinker. It matters not, however; it is my will to have entire control of this property, and you will sign the papers without further parley. I do not choose to be thwarted in my wishes by the absurd scruples of such a baby as you are." 
               "Edward, I can both think and feel, though of late, one might suppose that of the latter fact you are ignorant. I am no longer a child. I understand my position as your wife, and much as I love you, I have firmness to withstand your will, where your interests, as well as my own, are at stake. I can not sign away my right in this property, for the time may not be far distant, when that will be all we may have to depend on for a subsistence." 
               Osborne gazed on her with amazement, mingled with fury. He was tempted to strike her, but there was something in the pale face lifted to his that witheld him. 
               "And for a few paltry dollars, you dare to brave me?-to risk the loss of the love you would so lately have sacrificed every thing to secure?" he asked, in a tone that quivered with repressed passion. 
               "Alas!" replied Annie, sorrowfully, "I have too soon learned that the morning mist is not more ephemeral than the passionate love of your sex. You have shown me that yours has already merged almost into indifference. Then wherefore appeal to its shadow? I can not risk the loss of what no longer exists, by my refusal to comply with your demand, and my strong affection for you, counsels me to be firm to my own conviction of what is right." 
               Her cheek was very pale as she thus spoke, and her eye sought his with deprecating tenderness, but he saw that her gentle firmness was unyielding. He savagely said: 
               "Suppose I thrust you from my side for this? Refuse you the shelter of my roof? Many a man has separated from his wife for less cause." 
               "Because the wife submitted to the decree that sent her forth; but that would I not Edward," replied the cruelly agitated creature, endeavoring to repress the tears that welled up from her breaking heart. "I will cling to you to the last, and no earthly power, not even your own, shall sunder the bonds which I believed myself commanded from another world to assume. Does not that solemn recollection come back to you, O, my husband, and speak to you of forbearance toward your poor Annie?" 
               Osborne started as this appeal was made to him, and a scornful smile played on his lips. He was too angry to care for the consequences of the disclosure he made, and he asked: 
               "Was not that scene effectively got up? Upon my word, Barbara is a matchless actress. And you, silly little creature, really believe that farce to have been real." 
               Annie gazed at him with dilating eyes. 
               "Why, what else could I believe? Was there then no reality in the supernatural sounds we heard?" 
               "As to the raps, they were unaccountable unless Bab's ventriloquism enabled her to produce them. Harry really seemed to possess some mysterious power, but so far as you were concerned, it was all an imposition, for my sister put her own interpretation upon the sounds we heard, and you were too much frightened to doubt her words." 
               "And I-I was the victim of a deception arranged beforehand, by the man I so entirely trusted-so fervently loved," said Annie, in a tone, the pathos of which would have touched any other heart, but his was steeled against it. 
               "Cruel Edward! for what purpose have you thus betrayed yourself?" 
               "To show you how unscrupulous I am," he coldly replied. "I am reckless, and I care not. Money I must and will have. Know that I am overwhelmed with debt-that I am threatened with arrest. Now will you sign these papers?" 
               Annie reflected a moment. She then said: 
               "Edward, in the strength of that love you have so cruelly outraged, I can pardon all that has passed; and if you will promise to abstain from your absorbing vice, I will join you in raising the means to clear you of debt. But ruin and despair await us, if you continue the reckless course of the few past months." 
               "O, I will promise any thing, Miss Prudence, if you will listen to reason. Sign half the papers, then, and I will make a settlement on you, to secure your precious little person from want, before I ask your signature to the remainder." 
               "It is for you as much as for myself, that I refuse," said Annie, dejectedly. "If things continue as they have gone on of late, I shall not long be a charge upon your resources. I accept the offer, however, and now give me the pen." 
               "They may not continue as they now are, but I will not answer for their mending much," muttered Osborne, through his closed teeth; but Annie was too wretched to heed him. She mechanically signed what was placed before her, and was then left alone, to ponder over the words of her husband. 
               O, could she then have thrown herself upon her mother's breast, and there breathed forth her anguish and repentance for her undutiful desertion. But no-pride forbade the disclosure; her own folly had consummated her wretched fate, and in silence she would bear her burden to that grave, which her sad heart whispered was the only refuge for her whose most important move in the game of life had closed up every avenue of hope for the future. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               UNFIT as Annie felt herself for the gay excitement of a watering-place, Osborne persisted in going to Saratoga at the commencement of the season, and he laid his positive commands on her to prepare to accompany him. There, she glittered in the mockery of brilliant dress and assumed spirits; an object of admiration to many, of deep sympathy to the few who could penetrate beneath the surface, and see how little real happiness was hers in possession, or in prospect. 
               The capricious changes in Osborne's manner served to keep alive the ardent affection he had inspired in a heart too tender to reassert its own independence; and occasionally, a faint hope would arise, that he might yet return to the quiet of a happy home, with purer tastes, and a better appreciation of her true value. 
               The admiration of others, seemed to give her a new claim on him, and occasionally he was as devoted to her as in the early days of their union. This brief interval of sunshine was invariably followed by harshness and neglect, but the hope of another change, prevented her from becoming alienated from one who seemed to take pleasure in torturing the sensitive heart he knew to be utterly devoted to him. 
               Osborne lost much money at the Springs, and his temper was not improved by it; but his style of living was not changed. Annie returned home to the same unvarying round of company and heartless display, but she keenly felt that a change had taken place in the style of her husband's associates. 
               A coarser and more repulsive set now asembled around his table, drank his wine, and filled his house with their Bacchanalian revels. She possessed no power to stem the tide of reckless dissipation, into which Osborne madly plunged, and often for days, she remained secluded in her own apartment. 
               As the fall advanced, the roads became too bad to permit much intercourse to be kept up between the city and the manor, and Mrs. Selden happily remained in ignorance of much that would have destroyed her newly acquired tranquility. When Annie was seen by any of Clifford's family, she always assumed the appearance of ease and sprightliness, which was once natural to her; and Reginald would not reveal the rumors he heard concerning the conduct of Osborne, to those who were so anxious to believe her happy. 
               Christmas, with its rejoicings, came, and on the same day that gave the Christ-child to the world, a new life came, with its tender appeal, to bind the young mother's heart more strongly to the husband, who felt the new tie but an additional link in the heavy bondage to which he had bound himself. 
               The gush of emotion in the heart of Annie; the renewed interest in life, bestowed by this tiny image of humanity, was unresponded to by Osborne. He only felt annoyed, that as they must have the care of a child, that a son had not been granted. A spirited lad would, in a few years, be a pretty plaything; but a girl-a little delicate creature, shrinking like her mother from every thing rude and repelling, he could barely tolerate the idea of; and when he indifferently passed his hand over the baby face, and made some flippant remark on its extreme insignificance, Annie thought the last drop had been poured into her cup of bitterness. 
               Wounded to the soul, she turned her face to the wall, and wept so silently, that those around thought she was sleeping; but those bitter tears drained life itself from the enfeebled frame, and no after effort of medical skill could restore to her the strength she should have regained. 
               Her mother was permitted to remain with her during the lingering illness that followed; and spring arrived before Annie was sufficiently recovered to leave her room. Osborne neglected her openly, and for days would be absent, no one knew whither, even when her life was considered in imminent danger; and so soon as her daughter was sufficiently recovered to dispense with her attention, Mrs. Selden received the most explicit hint from him that her presence was no longer needed. At her earnest solicitation, he finally consented that Annie should accompany her to the manor, and remain a few weeks for the benefit of change of air. There, she trusted the vernal breath of spring might renovate the weakened frame, and bring back the roses to her pallid cheeks. 
               With a joyful bound of the heart, which the poor child had lately thought she should never feel again, she took her place in the carriage, which was to convey her to the companionship of those who appreciated and loved her. Osborne coldly bade her adieu; but her new treasure lay wrapped up in her mother's arms, and a glance at her sleeping features, consoled her for all. The child's love should make atonement for the coldness of the father, and with this sweet solace, she went on her way, more hopeful of the future. 
               The cordial welcome, the quiet influence of the happy household, and, above all, the tender attention that surrounded the neglected wife, soon acted beneficially, and the appearance of extreme delicacy gave place to renewed bloom. But there was a depth and brilliancy in the glow upon her cheek, which gave a pang to those who so fondly loved her. It seemed the sorrowful herald of that fell disease, which the most careful attention could alone prevent from fastening on her life. Consumption had not yet laid its icy touch upon her, but the least imprudence might develop a rapid decline. 
               Annie was aware of her condition, and the new interest her life had acquired, caused her to obey the directions of her physician with scrupulous exactness. She must live for her child; for her darling little May, who already smiled in her face, and knew her voice. No wonder she so soon recognized them, for never was child so petted; never were sweeter songs, fuller of heart-love, poured over the cradle-bed of infancy. 
               Annie seemed to live alone in the presence of her darling; only now did she comprehend all the tenderness lavished on her by her own mother, and remorse filled her heart for the ungrateful return she had made for it. 
               The time allotted for her stay, too soon rolled away, and with a degree of reluctance for which she bitterly reproached herself, Annie commenced her preparations for her return to her unhappy home. Osborne had not visited her at the manor, and she had rarely heard from him. The spring was unusually warm, and before the end of May, the weather became quite oppressive. Annie knew that Osborne intended spending that season at Cape May, and she was willing to accompany him, in the hope that sea-bathing would be beneficial to her health. 
               On the evening before her intended departure, a letter came from him, in which he informed her that he was about to leave for New York, on business of importance. By the time he had settled this to his satisfaction, the season at Cape May would be commenced, and if she wished it, she could travel thither in company with some of their friends, who proposed going, and join him there. He, however, left her the alternative of remaining at the manor, if she preferred doing so. 
               Had Annie indulged the faintest hope that by joining him, her presence would be the slightest restraint upon his career of dissipation, she would cheerfully have done so; but she knew her influence could effect nothing, and she decided on remaining in the congenial atmosphere that now surrounded her. 
               She wrote to Osborne to this effect, and happy to be rid of the trouble and annoyance of a wife and child to attend to, he came down in unusual good humor, and made a short visit to her before his departure. Annie was shocked to see the alteration a few weeks had made in his once handsome person. His features began to wear the bloated and repulsive appearance of a habitual drinker, and his voice seemed to have grown thicker and harsher in its tones. 
               He was in unusual good humor, and even condescended to take the infant in his arms, and speak a few words of kindness to her. Frightened at his dark face, she did not appreciate the attention, but cried so loudly, that with a strong expression of disgust at the hideous grimaces she made, he tossed her back to her mother, and soon after took his leave, promising to write frequently. 
               The summer passed tranquilly away; and as the time for her departure drew near, Annie felt nerved anew for the trials her own home must bring to her on her return to it. She would make another effort to reclaim the wanderer from the paths of virtue. He was her husband; the father of her precious babe, and she could bear much for him. She would struggle on, and the ear of Heaven would not always be closed to her earnest prayers for his reformation. 
               Osborne came back, elated with the success of his summer tour. He was no longer the victim of sharpers, but had, in his turn, become one of the most successful of the fraternity. He re-furnished his house in a style of splendor unrivaled in the place; bought a new carriage, and insisted on giving fine parties throughout the season. The display of wealth, however obtained, always commands respect from many, and Annie found no lack of guests to grace her elegant mansion. 
               Her husband was not changed in any essential particular, but he seemed more anxious to cultivate the good opinion of the world, and she was not shocked by such glaring violations of propriety as had marked the first year of their marriage. 
               Her infant grew into a blossom of beauty that attracted every one who approached her. She was a rosy, blue-eyed child, with soft golden curls, and an expression of heavenly innocence upon her infant brow; and many looked on the rare loveliness of that seraph face, and gravely shook their heads. This being, so like the inhabitants of a purer world, could not be long destined to remain in this. 
               If the young mother chanced to hear these superstitious forebodings, she clasped her treasure to her heart with passionate fondness, and with pallid cheeks and tearful eyes, would utter a prayer that this crowning anguish might be spared her. 
               "She is my all," was the cry of her heart. "Remove from me the angel messenger sent to me in my darkest hour, and I, too, must leave this world of sorrow behind me." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               TIME, whether it brings joy or sorrow, flies by on ceaseless wing. Three years have elapsed since the close of the last chapter; but in their passage, they have brought only additional happiness to the family at the manor, in the person of an heir to the fallen fortunes of his father. 
               The child was welcomed as joyfully, and as tenderly cared for, as if he had been expected to inherit the accumulated wealth of the Rothschilds; for to him belonged a much more valuable possession-pure and judicious affection from both father and mother. 
               Sidney was now nearly two years old, and could run and romp as sturdily as any little rustic in the country around. The law-suit dragged its slow length along, in spite of Clifford's efforts to expedite the decision. No clue to the lost deeds had been found, but Reginald had reason to believe that they had not passed into the possession of the opposite party, or they would not make efforts to procrastinate the suit as they had done. 
               Clifford had entered into an advantageous partnership in Alexandria, and thither he went every morning, and returned in the evening to the pleasures of his own hearth. His old indolence, his love of luxury, were entirely conquered; and he felt that his present life of useful labor and tender care for the welfare of others, was happier, nobler, and more in accordance with the command of Heaven, than the one he had so long led. The ordeal to him had been an advantageous one; for it had developed resources and excellencies in himself, that he knew not he possessed. 
               It was a calm summer evening, and the little family was assembled in the vestibule, which, together with the handsome portico in front, had been repaired as their means increased, and was now the favorite resort of the household in warm weather. Clifford had not been to town that day. He had been busily employed at home in looking over and arranging papers relative to his own suit, which was to come on at the next term of court. He at length laid them aside, and with a half sigh, said: 
               "Ah, Constance, if we could only find the concealed treasure just now, and with it, that most important document. I am sure the hour and the time referred to by my father has arrived; for if the cause comes on without the lost deeds, I am afraid my chance is small to regain what is justly my own." 
               "Never lose trust, dearest," said Constance, cheerfully. "In my opinion, the best treasure you have already found, concealed in your own newly developed energies. But for this loss, you would never have become what I am now proud to see you." 
               "Thank you, little wife, for your appreciation. But I do not take all the credit to myself, as vain man is so apt to do; for your companionship, your encouragement, have aided much, I assure you, in the self-conquest I have achieved." 
               Constance smiled brightly as he thus spoke, and in the clear glance lifted to her husband's face, was read the assurance that no cloud had dimmed her love, her perfect faith in the partner of her life. 
               Clifford went on: 
               "I can not help clinging to the hope that means may yet be found to prevent my inheritance passing from me and mine. I promise you, that if fortune is regained, our boy shall be so educated as not to need such severe discipline as has been found necessary to me." 
               At that moment, Sidney came trotting through the vestibule, mounted on his grandfather's cane, which he had just dragged from the corner in which it was usually concealed from him. 
               "Precious darling!" said his fond mother, passing her hand over his curls as he rushed past. "What a sad thought it is, that what came so pure and unsullied from the hand of his Creator, should have the sins and sorrows of earth to contend with and overcome, or lose all in the struggle." 
               "Remember the promise to him who conquers in the end, Constance, and be consoled. It is necessary to the development of the highest excellence, that temptation should assail-that sorrow shall teach us our common brotherhood with man." 
               "At all events, 'sufficient for the day is the evil thereof,'" said Mrs. Selden; "and many years of innocence and peace are before Sidney, ere he can enter that world in which temptation lies." 
               "True," replied Constance, "and well is it that it is so; for he will be sure to find it so soon as it comes near him. Listen, now, how he is crying, out in the yard. He is forever in some mischief." 
               She arose, and went out in the portico, to ascertain the cause of the boy's irritation. She found him with the end of the cane accidentally fastened in a crevice beneath one of the pillars that supported the roof, and he was making violent efforts to extricate it. In spite of the warning voice of his mother, before she could reach him, he gave a strong wrench to the cane, and it broke exactly in the center. 
               "O! my Sidney, papa will be so much vexed," she said, as she took up the pieces, while the child stood looking on in sorrow at the effect of his impatience. An exclamation escaped Constance, as she examined the fragments. On one side, the cane had been hollowed inward with extreme care, and the piece that was removed from the surface refitted accurately, and secured with glue, so that no flaw could be detected without a minute examination. Within the cavity ity, evidently formed by labored cutting with a knife, lay a small roll of paper carefully tied with thread. 
               As Constance drew it forth, with the exciting conviction that the clue to the mystery was at length found, Clifford joined her. Hastily severing the threads, the writing of his father met his eye, and he read the following words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY SON:
                            
                           "My reasons for the concealment of the treasure have already been made known to you. I am assured in my own mind, that the hiding-place of this clue will not be revealed to you before your probation is ended; for a voice has whispered it to me which has never yet deceived me. 
                           "A few weeks since, a robbery was perpetrated in my room during my sleep, and the deeds by which I claim the property on B-Square, in the city of Alexandria, together with a considerable sum of money, were abstracted. I have, therefore, sought a hiding-place for the sum I lately received, where few would be likely to seek it. 
                           "Go to the dell in which our family vault is situated; seek a small ravine between two hills on the northern side; walk four paces from its entrance, and you will find a ledge of stone projecting from the hill-side. Beneath this is a cavity, artfully hollowed out, and concealed within it is a cedar casket, containing the gold which will probably be the only legacy left to you by me. Use it worthily, my son; and should the loss of the title deeds cause the loss of your most valuable property, let this become the foundation of a fortune gained by your own honorable exertions." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               The recovery of the money was an event Reginald had taught himself to look upon as too uncertain, to permit him to build any hopes upon; and yet, amid his joy at learning the hiding-place of so large a sum, was mingled deep disappointment that the deeds were not also with it. 
               He lost no time in seeking the place indicated. The sun was setting as he issued from the gate, carrying a small hatchet in his hand, and accompanied by Constance, who with difficulty kept up with his excited pace. A walk of nearly half a mile brought them to the entrance of the dell, which lay in all its green beauty in the slant beams of the sinking sun, with a white vault faced with marble, rising in the center like a miniature temple. It was a solitary, but yet not a gloomy fane, dedicated to the repose of the dead; a small segment of what the Germans call God's Garden, in which repose the earthly portion of the angels of Heaven. 
               Why can we not take this view of the last resting place of those we love? Then would the grave be stripped of its terrors; death be regarded as the opening of that higher world which lies beyond the dim ken of man. 
               Reginald paused reverently before the vault, and bared his head a few moments, while he prayed earnestly. Then with slow steps he walked toward the ravine described in his father's letter. The spot was readily found, and kneeling on the rocks which were scattered over the sod, a few vigorous strokes sent the hatchet in the yielding earth, and the box lay revealed to him. 
               Drawing it forth with considerable exertion, it fell heavily upon the earth, and bursting open, many roleaux of gold, wrapped in leather and carefully sewed, scattered in every direction. On opening one, he found that it contained fifty eagles; there were forty of these, making exactly the sum his father had received on the mortgage, after the amount given to Mrs. Osborne was deducted. 
               The gold was safely conveyed to the house, and Reginald Clifford sat down to his well-earned supper that night with a thankful heart, and the consciousness that independence was at least his own. He now possessed a clue to the cause of the suit which had been instituted against him. The robber had purloined the deeds, and in all probability sold them to his adversary. In that case, he might relinquish hope-the field was already his. But he would make one more effort to regain the lost deeds, should they chance still to remain in possession of the person who had stolen them. He knew not why, but the conviction was on his mind that they had not yet passed into the possession of his opponent. The thief would hold them as long as possible, as a sure means of extorting money from him. 
               In pursuance of this idea, he went in town early on the following morning, and caused a new advertisement to be inserted in all the papers, offering a large reward for the recovery of the important document; at the same time stating that no inquiry should be made into the means by which it had been abstracted. 
               After completing the business of the day, he made a hurried call on Annie, to inform her of the discovery which had been made on the previous evening. She rejoiced in his good fortune, but Clifford was pained to observe how thin and spiritual she had grown. 
               Annie had at last lost all hope of being able to influence the course of her husband. Hers was the painful lot to watch the downward career of him she could no longer respect, but to whom her yearning heart still clung with a depth of tenderness which no outrage on his part could entirely destroy. The gay young heart was utterly subdued, and the sprightly sallies that once rendered her so captivating a companion, were forever hushed. 
               Again the deep hectic of threatened consumption appeared upon her cheek; this time accompanied by a slight cough, which she spoke of as a mere passing cold, but those who had more experience knew that it was the herald of speedy decay, to a being too delicately organized to contend longer against the wretchedness of her lot. 
               The varying fortunes of a gambler and spendthrift, had reduced their means of living to the pittance which had been settled upon herself, in compliance with Osborne's promise to that effect. They still retained their house, but Annie knew not at what moment they might be turned out upon the world, to seek a place whereon to lay their heads. 
               Amid the gloom that surrounded her, but one sunbeam lingered in this wretched mansion. The little May came as a vision of gladness to all who looked on her, save her moody and half savage father. She could speak quite plainly, and her charming prattle beguiled the many lonely hours of her fond mother. Annie scarcely permitted her to leave her presence. She was her daily companion, and at night her arms folded her to her breast with a deep tenderness that had something of foreboding in it. Annie felt that a little while, and they must be separated, but she did not dream that she would be the survivor. That little form, so full of joyous and bounding life, she could not think of as lying in "cold, obstructious apathy." 
               On this day, as Clifford conversed with Annie, he remarked that May looked pale and languid; and as she leaned upon her mother's lap, she gazed upon them alternately with her large blue eyes, in a singularly intense manner. There was an expression of weariness in her attitude that struck him painfully, and he glanced, from the child, toward the fragile mother, with a thrilling fear at his heart. 
               "Come hither, May," he said, "and tell me what I shall say to cousin Sidney, for you, when I return home." 
               "Tell him to send you here again," replied the little one, "for you make ma glad when you come." 
               He snatched her up, and danced her around the room several times, at which she was delighted, but so soon as he replaced her within her mother's arms, her head drooped upon her breast, and the paleness of marble settled on her features. 
               Annie was alarmed, and entreated Clifford to go for Dr. Withers, and bring him to the side of her darling as quickly as possible. He endeavored to reassure her, by insisting that the rapid motion had made her a little sick, and it would soon pass away. He, however considered it best to summon the physician, as he believed he had detected signs of approaching illness, when he first observed the little girl. 
               Clifford returned with Dr. Withers to hear his report before leaving town. On examining the child, the physician declared her to be suffering from the approaches of a severe, and in many instances fatal fever, which was prevailing to a considerable extent among the children in the city. 
               Annie had been aware of its existence, and earnestly petitioned Osborne to permit her to remove her darling from the danger of infection, by spending the remainder of the summer mer in the country. It did not suit him to suffer her to leave town, just then, and he positively refused, at the same time reproaching her with being foolishly anxious about the child. 
               Now the sweet flower was stricken with the fatal disease, and the mother's terrified scrutiny of the physician's features, as he bent over the little sufferer, caused her to grow faint and deathly cold. She read the doom of her idol in his serious brow, in his sympathetic glance toward herself. But she felt that this was no time to give vent to her anguish; she must retain self-control, to do all that might save, when that failed, then-then- 
               She closed her eyes, and, even in imagination, shrank from the awful blank that lay beyond. 
               Annie entreated Clifford to bring her mother to her, as soon as possible, and he was the bearer of these words, addressed to Mrs. Selden: 
               "Come to me, mother; sustain me in the trial which I feel awaits me, that I may not do that which Heaven may never forgive." 
               In a few hours, Mrs. Selden was beside her, but even that short lapse of time had made sad havoc in the helpless sufferer. She lay white and motionless, with deeply-sunken eyes, and lips parched with fever. Annie silently pressed the hand of her mother, but her eyes scarcely moved from the little form, which seemed to breathe with shorter and more hurried respiration, with every passing moment. 
               It was terrible; but a few hours before, May seemed in perfect health, and now there was no hope; the dawn of another day would probably behold her a corpse. Dr. Withers never left her side, he had done all that skill could accomplish, in vain; but he could not abandon the side of that pale mother, while lingering life left the faintest hope of ultimate recovery. 
               Osborne had been sought for in all his usual haunts, but could not be found. At length it was ascertained that he had left town late in the afternoon, with a party of boisterous companions, but no one could tell whither they had gone. 
               In the terrible blow about to fall on her, Annie scarcely noted his absence; she felt that his presence could be no consolation in the agony of despair that flooded her soul. So long as her senses remained, the child clung to the hand of her mother; but soon delirium intervened, and then, O, horror! came those terrible spasms which, with children, are so often the forerunner of death. 
               Every contortion of that exquisite little frame, sent an answering thrill to the heart of the poor mother, and she earnestly prayed that the spirit might be dismissed at once. Let the sinless one escape to the bosom of her Heavenly Father. O, spare her those excruciating pangs, and willingly would she resign her to that God, whose bitter chastisement, for her own disobedience, she believed was now falling on her. 
               At length the convulsions ceased; the form lately racked by them, stretched itself out; the expression of pain left the perfect features, and all that remained of her lost darling was a rigid form, lying in the marble whiteness of death. 
               Then Annie arose from her kneeling posture beside the bed, and threw herself upon the breast of her mother, and, in that hour, the cry of her broken heart was heard for the first time since her fatal marriage. 
               "O, mother, take me back to your bosom! Bitterly has my desertion been punished, I feel that this blow is in requital of my own disobedience, and I submit to its justice." 
               Then placing her hand upon the calm brow of her child, she continued: 
               "Not long-not long, O, my child, will the dark gulf sunder us. Already are my steps on its brink, and when I pass beyond, my angel one will come to meet, and welcome me to the better land." 
               Mrs. Selden took the exhausted sufferer in her arms, and whispered such consolation as words can give. Words! O, mockery! when death is in the heart! She vainly endeavored to induce Annie to retire, and attempt to rest. The bereaved heart refused to be torn from the spot, on which rested all that remained of the being which had been so unutterably precious to her. 
               With her own hands she performed the last sad offices for the dead, refusing all assistance in this holy duty of love. The finest robes were brought forth, and the fairy form as carefully clothed, as in her hour of greatest pride in the surpassing loveliness of her lost one. The long ringlets lay in silken luster on the waxen brow, and a bouquet of the flowers her little May had so dearly loved, were placed in the fair hands. 
               No entreaties could prevail on Annie to leave her side a moment. She would scarcely close her weary and swollen eyes, for the painful consciousness pressed upon her heart, that a few more hours, and her lost darling must be hidden from them forever. Who shall penetrate that stricken heart, and lay bare all that passed within it, during that hopeless watch? Ah! words may never paint the anguish of such weary hours, and we drop a vail over the scene. 
               When the coffin lid was about to vail that sweet face forever from her, Annie took the ringlets, one by one, reverently in her fingers, and severed them from the head they had so gracefully adorned, as a portion of that beloved one, to be cherished while life lingered in her own broken heart. 
               Wrapped in a little handkerchief, which had belonged to her pretty May, nightly they were placed upon her pillow, and their brightness gradually faded beneath the tears of anguish that were wept upon them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               OSBORNE did not return in time to be present at the funeral of his daughter, but he was brought home in a state of delirium, from weeks of excessive drinking, during the absence of his hapless wife at the grave of their child. 
               Annie was aroused from the stupor of grief, to the necessity of watching hourly over a madman, whose strongest wish appeared to be to commit violence upon his own person. Several of his reckless boon companions offered their services to remain with him, but she quietly rejected them, and prepared to attend to his wants herself. 
               Clifford remained with her, and after the first violence of the paroxysm had passed away, at the earnest request of Annie, he stationed himself in the next apartment, to be ready to assist her at any moment that it might become necessary. She refused to permit even so true a friend to watch beside the delirious man; for his wild ravings revealed too much of his unprincipled career, for the still faithful wife to be willing that another should hear them. 
               In the silence and solitude of night, she sat as a pale specter by his bedside, and shuddered as she listened to the terrible phantasms that chased each other through his tortured mind. He fancied that serpents and reptiles of every loathsome kind, were on his bed-were darting their fangs at him, and twining their icy folds around him; and his cries and frantic struggles to escape, brought Clifford many times to his bed-side. 
               The sight of him seemed always to add to his fury, and in his anger at beholding one he so much disliked, the imaginary specters that haunted him were exorcised for a season, but only to return so soon as he was again left alone with Annie. 
               At length the composing draught administered by Dr. Withers, took partial effect; he became quieter, and his excitement assumed another form. He now talked of his past life; spoke earnestly and rapidly, as if confessing his errors to the trembling being who listened with a shudder to his dark revelations. No dream of Heaven, no fear of the future, seemed ever to have acted as a check upon the selfish and headlong spirit she had once believed so noble. 
               She felt now, even more deeply than before, that she had linked herself with that most God-forsaken of all beings, a man utterly destitute of principle; and she buried her head in the bedclothes, and tried not to listen to the appaling words, that came in a fiery torrent from his lips. 
               Suddenly the pale face is raised, a streak of vivid crimson, the offspring of intense excitement, flashes across the white cheeks, and with lips half apart, she harkened to his words, with a heart sickness which mocked all that had gone before. With minute fidelity a lonely house was described, the room occupied by a solitary man was entered, and the whole minutiae of a robbery laid bare. 
               "And the deeds," he muttered, "I have them yet; ha! ha! Clifford shall never recover them. He would reclaim all, and he offers money-money for them. I need it much, but I hate him; he shall not recover wealth, while I grovel in poverty." 
               Here he ground his teeth, and clenched his hands in fury, but gradually becoming more calm he again commenced in a wandering tone, which showed that the powers of nature were nearly exhausted, and he must soon sink into sleep. 
               "Ha! I concealed them well!" 
               "Where?" whispered the white lips of Annie. 
               "Ha! ha!" he wildly laughed, "you would never guess; you pale ghost, that comes to haunt me. But you're a patient creature, and I-I'll reward you by telling this important secret. Would you ever think of looking in the lining of an old coat, for the title deeds to five thousand a year? They can not stay there much longer though, for I have pledged to destroy them before the trial, those harpies shall pay me double what Clifford offers, and then I'll begin anew. That last trick I learned must bring me good for tune." 
               After a few more incoherent mutterings, he fell into a heavy sleep. Annie bent above him, and watched his breathing, until she felt assured that he no longer needed her presence. Then taking the light from the table, she glided noiselessly from the room, and crossing a narrow passage entered a small apartment appropriated by Osborne as a dressing-room. 
               With trembling fingers she opened the wardrobe, and among the variety of garments that hung within, she prosecuted her search. With desperate eagerness she felt within the lining of every coat but none contained the object she sought. One side of the wardrobe was filled with drawers, and on trying these, she found that one was locked. The key was not to be found, and she reflected that that he probably carried it about his person. 
               With light tread she returned to the room in which he was sleeping, and examined his pockets. Nothing rewarded her search, and she was becoming desperate. She must find the purloined deeds, and restore them to their rightful owner, in such a manner as to avert suspicion from her wretched husband. 
               With a heart beating so violently as to threaten suffocation, and hands cold and trembling with excitement, she again examined every portion of the coat he had worn that day. As she was about to relinquish the search in despair, her hand accidentally passed over a hard substance concealed in the lining of the collar. She snatched up a pair of scissors, and cutting an aperture, a small key fell in her hand. 
               Much time had been consumed in the search, and with a terrible fear that Osborne might awake before she accomplished her purpose, she hurrid back to the wardrobe. The key fitted the lock perfectly, and on opening the drawer the garment she expected to find, lay folded neatly before her. Again the scissors were in repuisition, and a long cut across the breast, showed the parchment concealed within. It was, however stitched in so carefully, that it was a work of time to disengage it, and her excitement and terror lest she should be surprized at her employment, by the mad sleeper she had left, were so great as to delay her efforts materially, 
               At length, she drew forth the deed uninjured, and rolled it together. She then restored the drawer to its usual state, locked the wardrobe, and prepared to leave the room. While thus employed, she rapidly debated in her own mind where would be the safest place of concealment for her treasure, until an opportunity could be found to restore it to Clifford, without permitting a suspicion to fall on him it was her hapless lot to claim as her husband. 
               The revelations of this night had severed the last tie that bound her to this wretched being; and she could even return thanks to that Power which had removed the fate of her innocent child from his control, even by death. She felt that within, which eloquently assured her that not long would she be called on to follow her sorrowful pilgrimage. A few more months, and her resting-place would be found beside her darling May, in the peaceful slumbers of the tomb. 
               The brief remnant of her days should now be devoted to that mother she had so fatally deserted; and this was, indeed, the end to the romantic dream of her young life! To find herself, at the age of twenty-one, the wretched broken-hearted wife of a common felon! It was madness to think of it, and she resolutely endeavored to banish the rush of agonized thought that arose in her mind. 
               Overcome by the sudden rush of feeling, she paused a moment to recover composure. She stood with the lamp in one hand, and the roll of paper in the other, within a few paces of the door. Suddenly, a voice that sounded as the trump of doom in her ears, fiercely demanded: 
               "What are you doing here? and what is that you hold in your hand? Ha! treason in my own house!" 
               Osborne, with blood-shot eyes, and furious gestures, sprang toward her with an imprecation, and made an effort to snatch the paper from her hand. Annie dropped the light, which was instantly extinguished, and in the darkness, eluded the frantic clutch he made toward her. She fled through the open door, and no longer mistress of the deep excitement that almost unhinged her reason, she shrieked wildly as she heard his heavy steps in pursuit. 
               Clifford, finding all still in the sick room, had fallen into a partial slumber in his chair. He was aroused by the thrilling cries of Annie, and to rush to her assistance, was the work of a moment. As the door was thrown open, she passed rapidly through it, exclaiming: 
               "Save me! If he touches me I am lost." 
               "I will destroy you for this treachery," was hoarsely muttered by the wild figure that was confronted by Cliffotd. Finding his passage barred, Osborne threw himself upon him with violence, and a brief but decisive struggle took place. Clifford conquered, though it tasked every muscle in his strongly-knit frame to overcome his adversary. Osborne was taken back to his bed in a state of utter exhaustion, in which he lay till daylight. 
               On the following morning, Annie requested a brief interview with him; this he positively refused, and sent her a peremptory command to leave his house without delay. This she was willing, nay anxious to do, for she felt the utter impossibility of ever again being claimed as the wife of a being so lost to every feeling of honor or probity. 
               Amid all her fright, Annie held the papers firmly grasped, and when the excitement of the scene was over, she found them safe in her possession. 
             
             
               CONCLUSION. 
               AT an early hour, Clifford had a carriage at the door, to remove Annie to the manor. Mrs. Selden had already packed all she wished to take with her, and soon the unfortunate one was tenderly welcomed by her beloved cousin in the home which was henceforth to be her own. 
               That night Clifford was surprized to find his long lost deeds lying upon his desk. A scrap of paper was wrapped around them, on which was written: 
               "Do not inquire how they were lost, nor how restored. It is a mystery fraught with crime and suffering, therefore, be contented to regain your own, without seeking a clue to the delinquent." 
               The writing was evidently disguised, but a careful examination of it, convinced him that it bore a strong resemblance to that of his new inmate. A little reflection furnished him with a clue to the whole affair, and deep was his sympathy for the sternly-tried wife. 
               On his return from town on the following day, he publicly announced that his advertisement had at last been successful, and the lost deeds were recovered. Already had an interview taken place with the opposite party in which such arrangements had been made as would result in putting him in possession of the disputed property so soon as the term of his father's mortgage expired. 
               Measures were soon taken to restore the manor to all its early state. The whole house was renovated with the exception of the room occupied by Mr. Clifford. That remained exactly as when he died, and to its seclusion Reginald often retired, to meditate on the vanity of life, and the responsibility of riches. 
               His are worthily used, for the heart of the widow and the orphan are often made glad by the assistance rendered by him, when it is most needed; and in his sunny-hearted wife, Clifford finds a ready coadjutor in all his plans, whether they are for the benefit of others, or the happiness of their own home. 
               On his recovery, Osborne sold the remnant of property left him, and, under an assumed name, embarked for New Orleans; there to pursue his disreputable career under new and, he trusted, more favorable auspices. He alternately figured in the saloons of the wealthy, as a man of distinguished fortune, and in the courts of justice, as the successful wooer of more wives than the law allows. To escape the penalty attached to the latter crime, he fled to Europe. 
               Annie was spared the knowledge of his after career. She lingered only a few months, surrounded by every care that affection could lavish, for which she was sincerely grateful; but she no longer wished to live. She had faith and hope in the future; and when the summons came, it found her prepared. With the opening breath of spring, the freed spirit was wafted to the home of the blessed. 
               She requested that the treasures she most valued should be placed upon her breast when they laid her in her coffin. These were a pair of worn little shoes, the first her darling May had walked in; and a cluster of golden curls, faded and lusterless now, for tears of anguish had dimmed their silken sheen. 
               The blow of her daughter's death fell more lightly on Mrs. Selden than might have been anticipated. Annie, from the time of their separation, had been almost as one dead to her; for Osborne had permitted but little freedom of intercourse between them. It was a great consolation to claim her last days as exclusively her own; and Annie was patient and fondly affectionate to the last, as though she sought to atone for the past. 
               The tears shed above her early grave by those who loved her, were not those of inconsolable grief; for the hope of the sincere and humble believer was theirs. They felt that Annie had only preceded them by a few years to that "home eternal in the heavens, prepared for those who love God and keep his commandments." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
