
    ----CITATION----
        Davies, Theodore.. Losing to Win .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6217 wright2-0687
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Losing to win
            
                LOSING TO WIN. A NOVEL.  BY THEODORE DAVIES. NEW YORK: SHELDON & COMPANY. 1874.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by SHELDON   & COMPANY, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.    CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE High Tide on the Hudson, , .  .          9 CHAPTER II. At the Gate,               .  .  . 12 CHAPTER III. Uncle and Nefphew, .  .          .   21 CHAPTER IV. Lily makes an Im ression, .   .  .  .  .  .29 CHAPTER V. "Birds stuffed by John Snoggles," . . .  .  . 37 CHAPTER VI. The "Globular"Office at Niht, .  .  .   .   44 CHAPTER VII. The Strong-minded in Force, .  .  .  .  .  .  CHAPTER VIII. A  Young Man and a Young Woman, . .. 60 CHAPTER IX. A  Passing Glance,. .     .  .  .  .  . 67     6         CONTENTS. CHAPTER X. PAGIE Ofpenzing an Oyster,    .     . *  74 CHAPTER XI. ,ltaking a "Corne," .. . . .       82 CHAPTER XII. The / arvC Home, . . . ..   **e* 93 CHAPTER XlII. T7"o Tom    .  . .  . .  . .   03 CHAPTER XIV. N p/,LAofihoXkokglZan , . . . . . * . I IO CHAPTER XV. A47n AreJt Refiormer, . . . .   .  . I6 CHAPTER XVI. ilftlf cr/if-,s of a Saorm, . . . .   1 * e - . I25 CHAPTER XVII. 7ake on0 Deck,              1 . . . 35 CHAPTER XVIII. T/e Illouztnd ReopZC , . . . . . ..   144 CHAPTER XIX. A/t the f Thea'treC , . . . . .   . I53 CHAPTER XX. A WFild '\' t, . . . .  . .  . .  I63 CHAPTER XXI. Fran/k's Suzfifier, . . . . . . . . 75   CONTENTS.            7 CHAPTER XXII. PAGE s"Under which King, Bezonian," . . . .    .  85 CHAPTER XXIII. The Great Vindication of Women, .  .    .  . I94 CHAPTER XXIV. Black to Win,  .  .  .  ..      .  .  . 203 CHAPTER XXV. Harriet makes a Call, .   .  .  .  .  .  .214 CHAPTER XXVI. Lz'ly Illusrates Women's Rights, . .  .  .  . 223 CHAPTER XXVII. A Frziend in Need, ..  .  .  .  .    .   233 CHAPTER XXVIII. llinZgton and Mr. Wharton,  .. 24! CHAPTER XXIX. An Old Sin, .                   . 252 CHAPTER XXX. Two Young Ladies, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 266 CHAPTER XXXI. MA Lam figoes out,  .  .  .  .         2" CHAPTER XXXII. A Strong-minded Mother, .  .  .  .  .  .  . 289 CHAPTER XXXIII. A, Tempiestuous Teaot,    .  .  .    .  . 299     8          CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXXIV. PAGE Mr. Snloggles Recants, . . .   .  *  .  .3 CHAPTER XXXV, Lzttle Kay and the Sfpiznter of Glass, .  .  320 CHAPTER XXXVI. Bzack to Steowell, .              . 330 CHAPTER XXXVII. Jrzivate Businzzess, . .            342 CHAPTER XXXVIII. Rl/ohn's Zintg, . .        .      351 CHAPTER XXXIX. "Our Special Corresponden," . .  .  .     36I  CHAPTER XL. NAox el Prceterea Nihil, . . . .  .370 CHAPTER XLI. The Strike,     .              380 CHAPTER XLII. Conclusion, . .  .  .  .      .    403 '-i    LOSING TO WIN. CHAPTER I. HIGH TIDE ON THE HUDSON. EARLY one autumn morning, in the year of Our Lord I868, the tide on the Hudson River was unusually high. Swift and strong, the water came pouring in from the turbid, tossing sea outside the harbor, between Sandy Hook and Long Island, until it swept past the decaying wharves, gaining at every touch of the rotten piers fresh contamination from the blackness of oozing mud; past the long lines of warehouses, and drinking-shops, low-browed and scowling like their proprietors; past the mar- kets whence exhaled the continual savor of unheeded putridity, inviting sickness and death. It gurgled past the huge masses of iron lying on its surface, now emptied of their animate and inani- mate freight, making them to swing leisurely at the confining massive chains; with gentle lisp it glided into the dark and nox- ious places only to rush out again as fast as possible. Away from the city hurried the water, bestowing upon either shore portions of its ill-flavored burdens, as though intent upon purifying itself on reaching the fresher country air. Gradually the steadily up- ward struggling stream became clearer as it went, and flowed on its way in a rhythmical flood. The sun sprang up. Here and there the few faint patches of early snow lying upon the cedars and hemlocks and hard grey rocks, flushed with a tender rosy color that strengthened into spots of dazzling whiteness. The overtopping mountains, that ran down sheer to the shore, their straight lines broken by rugged boulders,     10         LOSING TO WIN. resting upon ragged ranges of stone, glistened at all their numer- ous points with touches of the glinting light. The deep green of the river changed to a softer tone, while near the bank on each side a tinge of blue prevailed. As lifts a veil, the murky morning air thinned and drifted into space, leaving exposed the greyishly blue sky. Some distance above West Point there runs into the river a neck of land curving towards the south. It is covered with large oaks and elms, and though now bare and desolate, presents in summer a tangled mass of waving foliage. The small bay be- twcen this peninsula and the main-land is almost entirely filled with tremulous rushes, exposed at low tide; beneath the water is a thick growth of tangled sea-weed. Into this bay came the rippling tide. Quietly and steadily it flowed, breaking upon the shore in circling lines, rising above the grass-encased stones and brittle water-logged sticks. It crept in amongst the shaking reeds, seeming to draw them down into its chilly grasp as it rose so quietly and steadily. The dancing sun- light, flickering on the heaving, faint green waves, was reflected back, cold and drear. The hard bright atmosphere had a touch e of the distasteful. Still, the water crept on and on, rising ever higher and higher, until at length it seized upon a something ,which had been thrown on land by the preceding tide. It played around this object, washing over it with increasing force; finally, a larger wave flowed under it, and bore it backward into the stream. Then the tide turned. Ever rippling, and heaving wrinkled waves, the water began its backward journey, carrying on its bosom the long, dark object it had so lately discovered and appropriated. The thing floated irregularly; now half-submerged, now nearly sinking; over it con- tinuously washed the water; around it swam numerous fishes- p)erch and horse-mackerel, as if greedy for a feast. Hovering between air and water, slowly it drifted towards the wide-breasted sea that buries its gifts beyond human sight. But not undisturbed. Two men, fishing for bass off the dock at Yonkers, caught sight of this water-tossed object as it floated tranquilly past. One of them uttered a cry, and, calling to his companion, both sprang into a boat and rowed to it. An exclamation of horror broke   HGH TIDE ON THE HUDSON.         II from them as they turned it over and perceived the body of a man, the face gnawed beyond recognition by hungry fishes. The mutilated features, so strangely inscrutable, stared calmly at the, overstretching sky as the corpse sluggishly followed the boat tow- ing it ashore. All day long the body lies under a shed, gazing upward calmly and tranquilly. Information of this discovery is at once made pub- lic. In due course of time comes the coroner with twelve men who agree that the deceased has come to his death by drowning, and that the unpleasant treasure-trove be put out of sight as speedily as may be. The local papers make much of the incident; and, in the dearth of other matter, a city sensation journal sends up an enterprising reporter to "interview " every one in the village, com- mencing with the coroner, who, thereupon, for the first time derives a pure delight from his position. By these means a knowledge of the affair is spread abroad, and after some days a sorrowful eyed old gentleman appears at the coroner's office, asking if any sign of identity had been found upon the body. To him is shown a handkerchief marked "G. D." as the only trace. He listens attentively to the description of the floatsam, and then walks slowly away. So the incident fades into obscurity even as the shell of the secret would have drifted into that sea which hides in eternal forgetfulness all coming to its grasp. An obscure corner of the church-yard holds and withered turf covers the mouldering remains of the unsolved mystery. The rippling river, with death in its depths and the mocking smile upon its face, ebbs and flows, never revealing any clue to the nameless stranger, but hiding in its own dark recesses all threads to knowledge.     CHAPTER    II. AT THE GATE. TEMWELL is a small town situated in Dutchess County, about two hours' ride from New York. Perched on the side of a hill that comes to the river in undulating folds, it looks from the steam-boat as though a handful of houses were flung against the mountain and kept there by some giant attraction. Fertile fields and clumps of trees surround it; through the centre of the vil- lage and past the tall liberty-pole that, surmounted by its Phrygian cap, looks down upon the low shingle-roofed houses and two or three pretentious brick stores, goes the old post road leading to the county town. The village is quite neat, and is spoken of proudly by its inhabitants who already begin to talk with a con- scious air of self-gratulation of "up town" and "down town." Few miles from it, north, south and east, are many country seats belonging to residents of the city and several places which are dwelt upon by their owners throughout the year. To the west, stretches the broad river, here widening into the beautiful expanse of Newhurgh Bay, hemmed in by the dark green mountains, and having its Pillars of Hercules in the shape of Bull Hill and Cro' Nest-home of the Culprit Fay. Hardly any spot on the noble Hudson unites within a sinall area so many diversified specimens of rural beauty: water, mountains, forests, cultivated fields, water- falls, brooks, picturesque retreats and gardens worked to the high- est point of artificial loveliness-nothing is lacking to charm the artistic eye. Fronting the Stemwell Station, stands the "United States Hlotel," the lounging place of those curiously dilapidated speci- mens of humanity which may be found floating about any country bar-room. How or in what manner they obtain their livelihood is a mystery beyond common comprehension. From fragrant morn to dewyv eve, there do they sit in the ill-flavored apartment, lazily   AT THE GATE.            3 discussing any subject which comes within the limited range of their small minds, apparently doing no work yet generally possess- ing sufficient money for a glass of apple-jack or a paper of to- bacco. Most of them are loafers, pure and simple, and some may be farmers waiting until their better halves shall have completed a haggling bargain. One of this class, during a whole day will sit on a porch, his feet elevated higher than his head in that fashion which Laboulaye declares so comfortable, slowly spitting to the right or left, absorbed in a state of lethargy which it would be outrageous flattery to compare to Brahminical abstraction. Lazy, shiftless and dissolute, they are good-natured loafers, and willingly lend a hand towards the accomplishment of any small jobs. If Providence tempers the wind to shorn lambs, these old rams must surely inhabit a climate undisturbed by even a breeze. The desultory conversation -of a group of these individuals was suspended one August day by the arrival of the noon train. The summer sun was blazing brightly, bathing the scene in a flood of dazzling brilliancy, as the cars stopped while the passengers dis- embarked themselves and their baggage. Some went along the plank walk leading to the ferry, others ascended the road that curved sharply up to a bridge -passing over the railway, and one, carrying in his hand a russia leather valise, crossed to the hotel.  He halted for a few moments, contemplating the glassy river, unruffled from its dormant smoothness save by a casual touch of the soft-fingered breeze, and thus gave those sitting on the porch an opportunity to scrutinize him, which they availed themselves of with all- a countryman's curiosity. What they saw was this: a man of about thirty-five or eight years of age, dressed in a loose summer suit of white duck, wearing a broad-brimmed panama hat, the only particle of color in his attire being a light blue neck-tie; of a tall, erect figure, well filled out, and with an easy carriage that showed him to be well assured of his position in the world. His moustache and whiskers were slightly grizzled; whether by expo- sure or work would have been difficult to determine, though so much of the original color remained as to denote that they had for- merly been of a deep black. The hair was also grizzled but less in proportion, being touched only on the temples and immediately in front. Large black eyes looked keenly forth on each side of a nose that would have been perfectly formed but for the breadth at its. base. His lips were full, and, partly open, revealed a row of     "         LOSING TO WIN. shining teeth. All his movements were nervously quick though graceful and self-possessed. What the scrutinizing observers did not see was that the corners of his eyes were marked by innume- rable little crow's-feet, the faint thin lines extending around the jut- ting forehead, and that the whole expression of his face and figure might be summed up by one French word-viveur; a man who lives well, enjoys abundantly all that life can afford, yet shirks no duty-even if it be self-imposed. The stranger turned, entering the narrow low-ceiled bar-room which served also for office, and demanded some of the best cigars. Lighting one of the selected half-dozen, he asked, "Where- abouts does Mr. Denton live?" "( Mr. Denton," repeated the thin-faced, sallow-visaged bar- keeper. "His place is about three miles from here. Wouldn't you like a carriage-take you there in half an hour?"And his narrow lips expanded into a rheumatic smile at the prospect of victimizing the " city feller " by hiring him the rickety buggy and knock-kneed screw which constituted the entire stable resources of the estab- lishment. "No. I prefer walking, if you can give me plain enough direc- tions." "It's very hot," the bar-keeper ventured again. "The heat does not annoy me." ( Well, then," with a sigh of resignation, you just turn to your right after passin' the bridge, and foller the main road, till you come to a gate on the left-hand side that's got two big stone balls on the posts. That's it." Ad Thank you. I suppose I can leave my bag here." 4 Oh, yes. Wouldn't you like a room got ready for you?" was the further question of the combined clerk, bar-tender, book-keeper and proprietor of the United States Hotel as fond visions of a cus- tomer rose before his bleary eye. With the curt rejection of a railway hotel lodging-he probably knew by sad experience what it was like-the stranger paid for his cigars and departed on the designated route, an object of deep interest to those who watched his retreating form. "( Who's he, Phil?" was asked as the proprietor resumed his seat. "Dunno!  He didn't give 'ny name, but his bag's marked "P. A."   AT THE GATE.           15 "'Pear 's if he come from N'York." "Yes, I can allers tell them city chaps. Wy, they're just as different from Boston or Philadelphy fellers as I am from black Pete; kind o' chipper and sassy like, you know." "Well, they just know how to wear store clothes, they do," said a man who was huddled up on a chair tilted back against the wall at an angle of forty-five degrees, meditatively revolving in his mouth a mass of tobacco. "I'll bet they do," said Phil Smith. "Wy now, there's old Goggings' son, Sam, that went down to N'York three years ago come September, an' got in a store there. I see him las' winter wen I went down to sell some apple-jack. He's dressed up just as gay as you ever see. Wy, he tole me that he gave twenty-five dollars for his coat." 'He pronounced this stupendous amount slowly and with emphasis, evidently intending to impress his hearers. "Sho, now, ye don't say so," said a wiry, tanned old fellow whose hard, sharp features looked as though they had been carved out of mahogany; and not very good mahogany at that, judging from the way it was cracked and seamed. "Yes, I do. I tell you them fellers don't care wat they give for things." "I rec'lect the boy," continued old Alvah Stebbins. "He was a mean little runt, al'ays runnin' round where he had no call to be. I ketched him once in my melon-patch and whaled him awful. Well, wat do you suppose he done! Wen he got loose, he ups with a stun and fetched me alongside the head with it-almost knocked me over he did. I run for him, but it 'ud 'a been easier to lay holt on a neel. But wat's he doin' now?" "He's a-goin' around the country, tellin' the paddies that they ought to have just as much pay as they want to, an' oughtn't to work any more'n they feel like. Calls himself a Labor Reformer," and the speaker spat on the ground to show his contempt for the enlightened patriot whom he had been describing. "I'll reform him if I catch him 'round my place again," said the old man. "Come, boys, let's have some apple-jack." While they were imbibing the indigenous tipple of the county, the stranger in the white duck suit was walking along the way leading to Mr. Denton's. By this time he had passed the cluster of shanties encircling the station, and saw before him nothing but     16         LOSING TO WIN. the blank, dusty road, bordered by rows of cedar and wild-cheny trees with an occasional small clump of locusts. Sudden vistas through the mass of greenery afforded views of the slumbrous river, curling, contracting, expanding in curving lines like some long snake creeping through the valley. In the distance lay the solemn hills, now faintly veiled by a shimmering haze of dim pur- ple. Shadows cast by floating clouds flitted over their surface, making the deepness of the hues more vivid, and then vanishing to let the sunlight give a newer tone. The day was intensly still. Not a sound broke the silence except the low chirp of a bird coming to the pedestrian's ear, or the rasping hum of a concealed locust. The thin blue smoke of his cigar drifted into the air in a steady stream as he went onward, making no deflection to either right or left, not stopping to admire the scenery, but continually marching to his destination the shortest way. "( It looks rather familiar about here," he murmured to himself as he slackened his pace a moment to obtain a fresh light. c"I fancy that I could still name all the old landmarks, though it is nearly eighteen years since I have seen them. By Jove! That seems a long time when one thinks of it, yet it has gone rapidly enough with me-too rapidly, perhaps. I need to rest on my oars, for a while now, and have a little repose.... I wish that I could get this confounded grey out of my hair-" he pulled his whiskers thoughtfully. "Yes, egad, and it wouldn't be bad if I could get it out of my heart, also." This latter reflection brought with it busy memories that for a time stopped his train of thought, but before long it was under way again. A"However," he murmured, slightly shrugging his shoulders as though shaking off an unpleasant clinging burden; "there is no need to bother about what might have been. Thank heaven, I am not coward enough to wish that anyone but myself should be responsible for my acts. What I have done is over and finished with. The problem now is to make seventy dollars a week equal to ten thousand a year--I might as well try to square the circle. If the old gentleman-I'll read his letter again." He took from his pocket an envelope and read the enclosure, walking slowly. It began abruptly.   AT- THE GATE.           17 I am tired of living alone. Now that I commence to feel my years, every day makes me more weary of this solitary life. I wish you would come and see me. Your mother and I quarrelled, but that is no reason why we should not be good friends. Come and make me a visit. There are plenty of people near here, so that you will not be entirely dependent on me for amusement. I should like to see you. GEORGE DENTON." "That's his nature all over," said the reader to himself, re- placing the letter. "His egotism crops out in every line, though at times it seems querulous and peevish. I suppose he has aged rapidly since the loss of his son; it must have been a severe blow to him.-But I ought to be nearly there." He stopped and looked around him. Nothing met his eye but the wall of bordering trees, and a glimpse of the distant river. Going some twenty rods further, the road made a sharp turn, and there on his left hand he saw the two stone pillars surmounted by balls which indicated the entrance to Mr. Denton's place. A cottage, built in the Italian style, standing to one side of the gate, was evidently the' gardener's lodge; to this the stranger was turning when his attention was caught by the sound of an angry voice. "Eh, ye lazy deevil, why have ye no' raked over this bit o' road? Here ye have been pothering half the day, and nothing done as yet. I'se warrant the moment my back is turned, down ye plump on the grass and there stop till I catch ye." "Now that ain't so," expostulated a drawling voice, "an' 'tain't fair to go abusin' a lame man 'cause he ain't quite so spry as a long-legged Scotcher. You needn't talk. Wy didn't you go to the war an' fight for your country like a patriot?" "Weel, Jake, we'll no' dispute the matter, but ye should work faster." "How 'n thunder's a feller goin' ter work when he ain't got more 'n one leg?" "I should know that voice," thought the visitor, walking through the gate and looking for the speakers. He found them a short space inside the grounds. One was a tall, raw-boned, red-bearded, high-cheeked and hearty-colored man, whose appearance even more than his tongue showed him to be a native of Scotland. The other was short and squat, with un     I8         LOSING TO WIN. ungainly frame which looked as though the arms, legs and trunk had originally been intended for different people, but by some un- fortunate conglomeration of atoms had united in a life partnership and set up in business on their own account. The drooping corners of his wide, narrow-lipped mouth combined with the deep creases running down from the long, thick nose to give him an uncon- scious air of sanctimonious hypocrisy, which was still further in- creased by the elaborately greased locks trained over the cheeks in front of the ears. He was dressed in a tattered soldier's blouse, and beneath the left leg of his trowsers peeped the end of a wooden substitute for its more natural filling. "Is Mr. Denton at home?" asked the stranger, coming forward. "Ay," replied the man called Duncan, scanning him from head to foot; " but ye'll no' see him." "And why not?" was the smiling question. "Because he's occupied, and has no time to throw away," said Duncan grimly, seemingly displeased at the caller's summer attire. "I think he will see me." "Ye can ask at the house," and with this the gardener ungra- ciously turned his back. "Wait a moment, Duncan. Do you not remember me?" The one so addressed faced around, and, shading his eyes with his hand, again took a close look, but his scrutiny was interrupted by Jake.         , ( I'll be durned if 'tain't Mister Paul. Gosh! how you have changed, to be sure." "Eh, and-so it is," exclaimed Duncan. "I'm right glad to see you again, sir." "d I knowed you the minute I see you laugh," said Jake. "It's the same Mister Paul that I used to go fishin' with. Sa-ay, do you remember that ten-pound catfish we ketched-" "Go on with your work, Jake," broke in Duncan, stopping his subordinate's reminiscences by virtue of his superior authority. Ye'd gabble all day did I no' put a stop 'til yer tongue." !"He's a slanderin' Scotcher, Mister Paul. Don't you b'lieve  a man that wouldn't fight for his country; nor even do what I told llim an' hire himself out for a flag-pole. Durned if he ain't tall 'nough." "Do as I tell ye," cried Duncan, turning red; " and mind, that ye work by the piece and no' by the day." W"Walk on with me, Duncan. I wish -to ask you some ques-   AT THE GATE.           I9 tions," said Paul, and so, accompanied by the gardener, he Went onward up the curving road, between lines of cedars and hemlocks through which he saw wide expanses of closely cropped turf. "The old place is as beautiful as ever; it is even finer than when I last saw it." "Ye may well say that it is as beautiful as ever, Mister Pole," said Duncan, savoring the praise as a sweet morsel, though, like a true Scotch gardener, wild horses could not have torn from him the admission that it was perfect. "Ye may well say that. The place takes all my time with only that lazy Jake to help me, though it's but little that Mr. Denton cares for it." "He ulsed to have a great interest in all that was doing." "Ay; but ever since the death of Master George--ye know of tat?" "I know only that his body was found in the river. How did it hapren?" "The Lord knows! But I'm sometimes thinking," continued Duncan, lowering his voice, " that he and the father had some high words the night, and that the young man-he was hardly more than a lad, poor fellow-started for the station to go to the city. He must have fallen from the bridge while walking along the railroad track. Ye rack'lact the current there?" "Yes-unusually swift and strong." "And so he'll have been swept out and drowned. Since then, Mr. Denton has been very quiet and still like; rarely looks around the place, and never finds fault. Now, I remember the time we were always clashing, and he'd turn me off the grounds once a month regularly. Why, Mister Pole, if I .was to tell him that the Carya porcina is a pinus Norwegiensis he would not contra- dict me." "Was he much disturbed when he heard the news?" "Disturbed? The Lord save us. Like as if he was out of his mind. Not frantic, but melancholy and moping. And he wouldn't let any one come near him, but just sat on the piazza all day long, looking at the river with tears in his eyes; though he discharged one of the women servants-chattering hussies they are, all of themin--for saying she had seen him crying. He was always proud, ye know." Paul did not care to inquire too particularly into his uncle's present state of mind through the medium of any subordinate; so,     20         LOSING TO WIN. dismissing the gardener, he stepped briskly forward until a few further steps brought him to the door of the house. It was a substantial-looking edifice built for comfortable habi- tation during both summer and winter. The ground floor was raised but two steps above the surrounding level, and led upon a piazza, running from a central porch, which enclosed three of the walls. Immediately over the porch it was topped by a large balcony jutting out from a middle second-story window. All the windows were large, and most of them of the kind called French- opening lengthways and reaching down to the floor, they were adorned with eaves and small balconies. Surmounting the whole was a sloping roof, broken only by chimneys and lightning rods. Around the many supporting pillars of the piazza were trained honeysuckles and Virginia creepers, the former at this time of the year in full bloom and loading the air with their heavy perfume. Some vases and rustic seats were scattered about the circular lawn in front, and others were on the broad reach of bright turf that lay to the westward of the house, between it and the road along which Paul had come. He rang the bell, and, mentioning his name, asked for Mr. Denton. "This way, sir." He followed the servant around a corner of the house, and there, sitting in an easy chair on the piazza, looking at the river, found the writer of his invitation. "Uncle, I am Paul Allington."   CHAPTER III. UNCLE AND NEPHEW. , SIT down, Paul, and let me have a good look at you." The old man who thus spoke was leaning back in his chair with an air of lassitude which required very little observation to show as an expression of chronic dejection. He was spare and meagre in build, though a large frame proved that in his youth he must have possessed great muscular power. The face was thin; his fallen cheeks making more prominent the curved nose and slightly protruding chin. The narrow lips were firmly set; slip- ping from life as he might be, he still retained a large portion of former decision of mind. The dim grey eyes were partially con- cealed by drooping, blue-veined lids, above which were long and bushy eyebrows.- Dressed entirely in black, and wearing an old- fashioned white neckcloth, Mr. George Denton looked not unlike the resuscitated image of some ancient Calvinistic preacher, with his fierce theories of after life and stern repression of all gentle feelings-though now the once brightly imperious eye was dimmed, and the once nervous mouth, despite his endeavors to always hold it in a firm position, occasionally relaxed into a trembling droop. For some time he sat motionless save for the restless eyes that roved over the younger man's person, examining him at every point as if striving to read his character in his appearance. But the im- pervious visage before him seemed. to prove illegible, for he at length turned his head away impatiently and sank it upon his breast in deep thought. Paul Allington was the first to speak. "Have you any objection to a cigar?" "No." His voice Was low and melancholy with a plaintive intonation. The speaker again regarded his nephew striking a match to obtain a light. The silence between this odd pair-the prime of manhood and     22         LOSING TO WIN. the debility of age, effectually represented by the blazing afternoon sun and the shadows lurking upon the barren ground beneath a gigantic neighboring Norway pine-remained unbroken until the elder spoke again. "You received my note?" "Certainly. I should not else be here." "I saw in a paper that you had just returned from Europe, where you had been as special correspondent for the Globular. H-am sorry I quarrelled with your mother; I am-very-lonely nowV.  The words came with a gasping cry as though wrenched from him. They were an involuntary revelation of what he had felt in the dreary solitude to which for so many months he had con- demned his formerly active spirit; they lit up to Paul the intense  weariness of such an existence. "There is no occasion to speak of it, uncle," he said, laying his hand kindly on Mr. Denton's arm. t"It was a wretched affair, and I am only too glad to have the opportunity of relegating it to its well-deserved oblivion. Let us not speak of it again ; rather strive, if possible, to forget that it ever took place. You are my uncle and I your nephew as in the old time--that is all we need re- member."  "You are very good, Paul," said the other slowly. "4 Yes, let the miserable past be buried and rest out of sight." Then he added, by an evidently strong effort, ," You have heard of George's death?" It showed his character, that he refused to use any periphrasis, or even a synonymous word to indicate the event which had so stricken him with sorrow. "Yes, I have heard of it," said Paul briefly, willing to spare him the pain of its recital. "And it was all my fault-all my fault.... O God, forgive me," cried the old man brokenly, clasping together his shrunken hands. "My infernal temper got the mastery of me-I told him to leave the house-never to let me see him again. And I never did see him again-never-never-"His voice died away in a low moan, and his head sank farther upon his contracted breast. There was something almost hideous in this sudden flame of passion flaring up from nearly dead ashes. The nephew said nothing, but waited for the paroxysm of   - *     "*    UNCLE AND NEPHEW. 23 remorseful grief to exhaust itself before he spoke to change the subject. "If you want me to stay here to night I had better send to the station for my valise." "Yes, yes, I do: I do want you to stay here as long as you can--as long as you can, Paul. Do you understand? I cannot live this way any longer. I am too old-I must have some com- panion." "Let me first despatch a messenger, and then we can talk of Jake was summoned from his work, much to the loudly vented disgust of Duncan, and bidden to fetch the bag from the United States Hotel, with injunctions to waste no time. "You know, uncle," said Paul, resuming his seat, " that I am -absolutely dependent upon my pen for a living." "So I had supposed. But-well, Paul, there is no use for false modesty between us two-let me give you an allowance; it shall be as large as you want. You are my nearest relative-all the others are fortune-hunting toadies, and I hate them." He said this with a nearer approach to his old manner of eighteen years ago than Allington had yet seen. "But I like you because you always took your own way, and never troubled me for money." A Curious gleam shone in Paul's eyes as he answered quietly- "I may be too proud to accept any now. At present I earn enough to live in independence, and my position enables me to write only when I please." "No, Paul. Do not say that you will not let me help you. Let me have the satisfaction of thinking that I have made at least one person. comfortable. I want to live here-why should not you? There are plenty of good neighbors-city people. You shall just have so much money as you like. What good is it to me?  Five, six, seven, eight thousand a year. Take eight, and "Well, uncle, give me until to-morrow to think it over." "Certainly, Paul, certainly-as much time as  you choose. I know that you will enjoy yourself here.  Besides, you ought not to bury your talents in the columns of a daily paper. Write a book. a novel, a poem . It shall be published I promise you." The old man's fervid desire to escape the haunting shadows of the past was almost painful to witness-a desire to be cheered     24         LOSING TO WIN. for the remainder of his life by the companionship of a freer, fresher nature; to be invigorated by the contact with youthful health and buoyancy combined with intellectual culture. To Paul the prospect was most inviting. Here was the solu- tion of the very question over which he had been pondering, ready to his grasp; more than that, it was even seeking his hand. Em- barrassed, loaded down with debts which his reckless nature had led him to incur on every side, he knew that he could hardly suc- ceed in the race of life while thus heavily handicapped. He was perfectly ready at once to accept his uncle's generous offer, and held back only because that which is lightly given is sure to be lightly received. Experience had taught him that the greatest possible favor if easily rendered is accepted quite as a matter of course, while the smallest concession from a churlish person is taken with a flood of thanksgivings. "t I should like extremely to live in the country all the year, but there are so many circumstances to be, considered that I need time to decide," he said to close the subject. "However, I might be able to write my editorials here and send them down to the city."9 "Of course you could-  What is it?" he asked as a ser- vant approached. A note, sir." "Just in time," Mr. Denton said, after running over the con- tents. "It is an invitation to dinner this evening at Mr. Whar- ton's. Will you go with me, Paul?" "I shall be very happy." "Bring me a pen and ink and paper." It was plain that Mr. Denton ruled his household strictly, for the materials he had demanded were quickly and quietly placed on a small stand near his elbow. "I have added that I shall take the liberty of bringing you," he said, folding the answer. A"Now, Paul, if you want anything you will find it in the dining-room. Some cigars are there which I procured the other day for your benefit. The housekeeper will show you to your room. You must excuse me, for I have to take my afternoon nap, but will see you again at six." Calling his valet, after shaking hands with his nephew, Mr. Denton walked slowly through a French window opening into a spacious library, while Paul went around to the front door and so entered the house. B)t r'   I. UNCLE AND NEPHEW. 25 The hall, like every apartment in the building, was large and lofty. On each side of the door stood a life-size marble statue, the one facing the other. On the right hand were the dining-room, pantries and kitchen; on the left, parlors and the library that ended in a deeply bayed window. Directly in front, the waxed oaken floor led to a broad flight of low steps that conducted to the upper story. Paul's boot-heels clicked sharply as he opened the dining-room door, and went to the heavy carved sideboard, where- on, after the hospitable fashion of country houses, various flagons and decanters were displayed, tacitly inviting the visitor to help himself. This particular visitor did help himself, and also filled his pocket with cigars from the open box of Rosa Conchas. This done, he was shown the way to his room,where he sat down near- an open window to await the arrival of Jake and his bag. Many were the thoughts running through his brain, set in ing tion by the prospect of a change in his life. This morning he had been but a newspaper writer, moderately well paid it 'is true, but liable to be plunged into an abyss of hardship if by any accident his pen were arrested or his busy mind stilled. Now, he was offered the position of a country gentleman, almost entreated to take it, with the near certainty of becoming his uncle's sole heir. Of course he would take the proffered position. e told himself that he would be a fool did he not. There  rose before him the image of his uncle as he had seen him eighteen years ago; tall, angry and threatening, the stern mouth severing all ties between himself and his sister, and the bright eye looking lowering wrath. He could scarcely bring him- self tp believe that this was the same man whom he now saw bending beneath the burden of his years, with only a few fitful flashes of the old nature shooting across his dull, leaden sky of partial lethargy. As for the quarrel-let it be as he had said; let it be buried forever out of sight. It had  originated in some trivial cause, and the spark had but been fanned into a flame because of the two implacable natures, of w hich neither would yield a jot, preferring a severance of fraternal relations rather than any abatement of what each considered as only proper observance of personal dig- nity. Paul had thoroughly forgotten the origin of the dispute, and his  mother h ad been dead'long enough for him to be able to con- fess, to himself at least, that she might not improbably have 2      26         LOSING TO WIN. been as much to blame as his uncle; for he remembered the imperious domination she had striven to maintain over him after he had long passed the age when even mothers consent to sever leading-strings. Unlike wiser women she had not known when to abdicate the exercise of parental rights, and consequently the two had continually clashed. His meditations were interrupted by the noise of a confused scuffle on the landing and the sound of Jake's voice. "Go 'long now, an' le' me be. You ain't no 'count. You're only a woman, anyhow, an' can't vote. Wy, I voted three times one 'lection day." "The more shame for you," cried the shrill voice of the house- keeper. "\Vhen we do vote there won't be any more idle, disso- lute, shiftless, apple-jack drinkin' lazy Jakes." !"Ah-h-h, you'd like to vote an' wear breeches, wouldn't you?" retorted the husky voice of the dilapidated veteran. "How could you 'a fit into the war, I'd like to know." What further recrimination might have taken place, or with what other ironical questions Jake might have aroused the anger of his antagonist will never be known, for on Allington's opening his door the female combatant scuttled away, and the masculine stumped into the room with the valise. No sooner was Jake inside, than he unceremoniously dropped into a chair, exclaim, ing: ( "Well, if she ain't the cussedest woman I ever did see! Calls herself a housekeeper, too, an' goes in fur wimmin's rights-gaul durn her. Wy, Mister Paul, she's that sassy she writes letters 'bout the tyrant man as she calls us, an' ain't ashamed to put her name to 'em-leastways, her first name. I'd like to catch may wife a-doin' that sort o' thing. I just would," he added deliberately in a manner that promised anything rather'than success for Mrs. Jake should she attempt a revolt against her lord and master. It was quite evident that in addition to the valise, Jake had been getting something else at the hotel with -the money which Paul had incautiously given him before his departure. "So, Jake, you drink as much as you always did," said Paul, proceeding to empty the bag. "a Now, Mister Paul," said the accused one, affected almost to tears; "don't you go a-slanderin' me, like that Scot cher, Duncan. He's a nice fellow. he is, to talk about drinkin' wen he wouldn't   UNCLE AND NEPHEW. fight for his country., You oughter see the way he puts hot Scotch out o' sight. It's a caution."ot Scotc "r'll not slander you, Jake; I remember old times too well for that." "AYou was always a good fren' to me, you was, Mister Paul. Lordy, I reck'lect wen you was a little curly-headed chap, no higher nor that "-and he held his hand about three feet from the floor--,an' how you did use to jump around And then, to see you come back with your side-whiskers and moustache, wen you went away with no more hair on your face than there is on the back of my hand."           ce than there on the back This was hardly the truth, since Hke's hand was as hairy as the average man's head, but Paul took the remark as it was intended. Jake continued. "What be you a-doin' now, Mister Paul, if I can ask ; " "I write for the papers." Whew! write for the papers! Do you write them articles sayin' that one man's a villain and t'other man's a nangel " "Hardly so decided as that, Jake, though I often write about - politics." "Tellin' folks how to vote, eh?  Well, you just let me know wen you want a feller elected, an' I'll vote for him a dozen time-- durned if I don't. It's cur'ous though, to think that the little chap wot used to go a-fishin' with me should be a-writin' in the papers, and tellin' people that they're villains," mused Jake, reverting to the distinguishing characteristic of political articles; "Sa-ay," he resumed after a moment's pause; do you believe in wimm in's votin'               you believe in wimmins "No." "Jus' let me go, an' tell ole Snit-it'll make her mad as thun- der." "Wait; I  wish to ask you some questions about the old neigh- bors." "All right, Mister Paul," said Jake in his free and easy style, resuming his seat;  , ask away." "Is Mr. Pyrott living here still?" Pie-r ot   t "-Jake pronounced the name as if it were spelled ie-rot, w ell, no . You see' he up an' died  one day, an ' then  a Mr. Burd bought the place, an' he has it yet."     28         LOSING TO WIN. "There used to be Mr. Metter on the other side of us." "Well, he made a heap o' money durin' the war, an' went to Newport to live, an' sold out here to Mr. Wharton-he's a good un. "( How so?" inquired Paul, naturally wishing to gain some in- sight into the character of the dinner-giver. "Wy, one day, just after I'd got my discharge it was, I was a-goin' along the road, feelin' mighty poor, wen he come by on horseback, and says he, ' Hullo, my man, wat's the matter?' says he. ( Nothin's the matter,' says I, ' 'cept that I ain't got no money.' I You was in the army, wasn't you?' says he. ' Yes,' says I, ' an' I left a leg in the Wilderness, too.' Then I ups with my breeches and showed him this here stick. Then says he, 'Do you want any work?' 'I've got work enough,' says I, 'but that cussed Duncan pays me by the piece, an' a man with ony one leg can't work fast.' Well, Mr. Wharton he laughed an' give me fi' dollars, an' says, 'You drink my health with that'-an' I did." "You got tipsy, I suppose," said Paul, laughing. "No, Mister Paul, I didn't, an' 'tain't fair for you to say so, either. I didn't drink more'n a dollar of it, an' the rest I give to Elizy Jane. You ask her, if you don't believe me. I'm a good husband, I am; an' if I do lick her sometimes it's for her good, an' she knows it." 1"Has Mr. Wharton any family?" inquired Paul, not caring to enter into the details of Jake's domestic eccentricities. "Yes, he's got two daughters an' a niece. Lordy! how they must fight-three wimmin in one house." A few more questions, and Jake was dismissed while Paul ar- rayed himself in evening costume. When dressed he stood for an instant at the window, before descending to meet his uncle. In front lay the lawn, and the waving trees of the land which might soon be his ; further on ran the river, a narrow silver thread, and beyond that were the purple mountains, rich and shining, glorified in the pure, sweet air. Over all was a streaming luxury of color, flung with lavish hand by the sun now low in the west. "a Yes, this is a place worth owning," muttered Paul as he turned and left the room.   CHAPTER IV. "LY MAKES AN IMPRESSION. IF Paul Allington had deliberately intended to obtain an increase of his uncles' favor by withholding assent to the proposition, he  had certainly succeeded, for the old gentleman leaned upon his arm affectionately while debating upon the beauty of his country-seat and more than hinting that it was destined to pass into the posses- sion of his nephew. He took great pride in regarding Paul, saying more than once that the family would be worthily prolonged. In common with most men of the Anglo-Saxon race, Mr. Denton was swayed by the desire that his proptrty should go almost undivided to his son, who would transmit it unimpaired to his son, and so on for longtime. Death had dispelled his dream; but he hoped that in Paul he had found a relative who would suit his somewhat exaggerated ideas of perpetuating the farily name and position. He talked as though Paul were already his acknowledged heir; already enjoying his liberal allowance. Nor was this unpleasant to the younger man. He was perfectly willin g to be transformed from  a slave of the ink- bottle into a wealthy country gentleman, while the almost panto- mimic rapidity with which the change promised to effect itself was far from disagreeable. It took but a short time for him to begin thinking of his past life as repulsive, and the future one most en- ticing. No more weary waiting until two or three in th e morning for telegraphic, despatches which might require the comment and elucidation of a brilliant leader; no more cudgelling his brains for sparkling phrases and apt quotations, and- -best of all--no more shirking the payment of often-demanded money. No  more of this, but a  life of quiet, peaceful rest, all the dea rer from its contrast with the follies, and sometimes the worse than follies of a city existence. His impressionable natu re w as s oon in flamed by the prospect spread before him. He had not been with his uncle five     30          LOSING TO WIN. minutes before gladdening his heart by an unqualified acceptance of the proposal. "That's right, Paul, that's right," exclaimed Mr. Denton cheer- ily; then, in a more earnest voice: "God bless you, my boy. You little know from what a very slough of despond your coming has saved me. I think that I should have gone melancholy mad had I lived alone much longer." His voice faltered from the excess of earnestness with which he spoke. "Well, uncle," said Paul lightly, more because he wished to relieve the other of his sombre thoughts than from any lack of sympathy with his feelings ; " all that is settled now. I shall live here quietly, and, I trust, prove of some comfort to you." "That you will, indeed. But there is another, thing, Paul. \Would you object to take my name instead of your own?" "( I presume not," said Paul thoughtfully. "But you would not wish me to make the change immediately." "No; not until after I am gone. I shall put in my will, then, that you are to inherit all my property on condition of taking the name with it." "Suit yourself, and you will suit me. And now, tell me something about our host. I always like to know how the land lies." "There is little to tell. Mr. Wharton is a retired merchant of ample means-a widower with two daughters. Besides these, there is living with him an orphan niece-a Miss Vevere." "Vevere? There is a family of that name in Baltimore. Is she any connection?" ("I don't know. All that I do know about her is that she is a very charming girl." Mr. Wharton's place embraced some ten acres. It was thickly studded with trees and shrubbery of various kinds; separated from the road, running on its northern side, by a dense line of evergreens and locusts. The house, standing in the centre of the plot, was of the Italian cottage order of architecture; it was approached by a carriage drive curving from the main road, and by several winding paths-one of which ran between it and that of Mr. Denton, the two places being separated only by a light wire fence merely sufficient to mark out the boundary line. The land was thoroughly worked up; the carefully trimmed trees and   "LY MAKES AN IMPRESSION. velvetyturf testifyingto the constant supervision bestowed upon {'  it by the owner. Mr. Denton and his nephew soon came to their destination, andwere ushered into Mr. Wharton's parlor. This gentleman was a conventional figure of the mercantile type; rather short, well filled out, and adorned by a little round stomach that looked like the half of an orange clapped under his vest. He advanced to mneet them with outstretched hands, his light eyes partially closed by the fat which a jovial smile carried up around them, and his circular face creased by the lines of hospitality.' "Very happy to make your acquaintance, sir," he said heartily shaking Paul's hand with a vigor which the latter would willingly have excused. "Let me present you to my daughters. Eliza, Harriet, this is Mr. Allington." Paul saw before him two young ladies arrayed in complicated ,arments of the latest fashion; the one with grey eyes and full - face like her father, rather stumpy and, prim-looking. ' The other was slender, with light hair standing out around her head in the frizzly manner borrowed from the Feejee islanders, and black eyes which combined with her regularly shaped brunette features to make her very pretty. But where was Miss Vevere-the charming girl? Paul thought that if any young woman could win such an encomium from his uncle she must indeed be charming. He looked about the room. His inquiring glance was soon answered by the eldest sister, Eliza, leaving him, going to a baywindow and returning with the object he desired to see. H  e was introduced, but for the first few moments was too deeply engaged in contemplating her beauty to speak much. Lily Vevere was nineteen years old; just at the right age for her slender figure to have hot yet lost the supple grace of childhood while it had gained the soft roundness of a woman's form. Her face was pure Grecian; short, aquiline nose, curving cheeks round- ing down to a small, pointed chin, small forehead but so shaped as to avoid suggesting the brainlessness of most Grecian models. Her eyes were of a deep, dark, unfathomable blue, so dark that in some lights they seemed almost black. They were fringed by long curling lashes, that now cast a shadow upon the cheek, and surmounted by thin dark eyebrows that ran nearly in a straight line except where they drooped suddenly at the ends. Her hair     32         LOSING TO WIN. was of a ripe, rich brown in color, turned in parts to glistening bronze tints as the sinking sun flung his vivid beams through the open windows. Through the open windows streamed the red rays of the set- ting sun; the glinting gleams cast strange rosy reflections upon the furniture and made the faces of the girls to glow as with an unearthly flush. The scent of nodding flowers, of new-mown hay, the rustle of whispering trees, the monotonous thud of some pass- ing boat upon the river-these summer pleasures and the feeling of tranquil joy in reposing nature, together with the sight of Lily, enwrapped and almost glorified by the fairy trickery of sunset, filled Paul with emotions to which he had long been a stranger. The spell was broken by the prosaic announcement, "Dinner is read(y." Seated opposite Miss Vevere at the table, having Miss Eliza Wharton on one hand and his uncle on the other, Paul Allington somewhat disappointed his fair neighbor by bestowing far more attention upon her cousin than upon the phrases she flung out as bait to catch the fish of conversation. But Miss Eliza was not accustomed to be put off with slight words of assent; Paul pleased her fancy, and she was determined that he should talk whether he felt inclined or not. ( You are quite a stranger to this part of the country, I sup- pose, Mr. Allington." "( No. Some years ago I lived here," Paul replied, at length brought to a sense of his social obligations. "I flatter myself that there is very little for me to learn about Dutchess County." (I think it most beautiful. Of course, you consider the Hud- son superior to the Rhine?" "Certainly; and even did I not think so, I should still uphold it as better than anything that could be produced by an 'effete monarchy.'" Oh! Mr. Allington-that should be telling a falsehood, would it not? We had such a delightful address on that subject last Friday by our priest, Mr. Benly-such a dear man. I wish you could meet him; he does so much good to everyone." Paul smiled at the implied compliment, and mumbled some-  thing about the great pleasure he should have in meeting the gen-  tleman; but Eliza, once started on her favorite topic,-continued H glibly:    "LY -MAKES AN IMPRESSION.        33 "It is charming that, here in the country where one would hardly expect it, we have our beautiful service conducted in the true manner. To be sure, some of the old-fashioned people objected to the antiphonal singing and genuflexions, and have gone over to the Presbyterians, but we are not at all unwilling to be rid of them and their shocking Low Church doctrines. "She's a Ritualist," Allington, dismayed, inwardly exclaimed. Like many girls of the present day, who are seeking they know not what, Eliza turned to religion as a contrast to the winter's life of continual gayety and frivolous fashion. Too careless, not possessing sufficient real interest in the matter to have thoroughly comprehended the doctrines of which ceremonies are but indica- tions, her knowledge extended no farther than a certain superficial ability to discuss what has been scoffingly called 's the petticoat and candle " question; while at the same time she continually-though unintentionally-offended those who think that religious belief is too solemn a subject to be discussed over lobster salad and champagne in the interval between a galop and the German. In common with a large number of othenvise quite worthy people, she per- sisted in dragging her pet ideas into every possible sortof society. and introducing them to acquaintances which would have made the authors of their being stand aghast with horror. After some suffering minutes of her complacent chatter about the reforms she would like to see introduced into the service, ex- pressing with all the egotism of her years her opinion in contra- distinction to that of heads much older, Allington was relieved by the voice of Mr. Wharton interrupting the monologue to ask some question concerning politics. He answered readily, and by keeping up a cuttle-fish cloud of conversation, contrived to escape whatever further disclosure of her belief Miss Eliza might have resolved to visit upon him. When they rose from the table, Paul Allington, by the exer- cise of some small social strategy, contrived to/get Miss Vevere separated from the others and request her to guide him over the place. "With pleasure," she replied, smiling; ": but if you are fond of conversation you had better ask one of my cousins to accompany us-I am not much of a talker." "No, no," said Allington, with more eagerness than the occa- sion warranted. "Spare me, please. Miss Wharton perfectly     "OSING 'U Vw IN. 34 deluged me with a flood of talk about ritualism, and I shall rejoice in a change of subject." They went down the steps to the garden that lay on the south side of the house. Around them played the soft evening air, fragrant with the countless odors of grass and flowers, sweet with the exhalations of the dying day. The sun had sunk behind the purple hills that darkened as they gazed. Above the ridges that undulated in long rolling swells hung light crimson clouds, trans- figured and shot through with lines of glinting gold and sheeny silver, their edges glittering with most intense brilliancy. Shadows stretched beneath the trees in slumbrous quietude, and a faint dusky haze began to creep over the earth. iss Vevere stood regarding the western horizon, her large eyes fixed upon the shifting cloud scenery and the pulsing sombre river, her lips s lightly parted, her small hands clasped before her. How beautiful it is!" she said slowly, as though thinking  aloud. During dinner Paul had noticed that she spoke but seldom, seeming to be rather shy, and enjoying most the position ot an un- heeded listener. He judged that she was given to meditation, and, although conversing fluently enough on ordinary matters, very slow to reveal any of her inner feelings. As they stood there, side by side, she gazing at the sunset, he gazing at her, it appeared as if the rattling life he had led in the city fell from him like a cloak, anid left him fresher, freer, purer than he had been before. She was so entirely different from the hack city belle; it was so incongru- ous to think of her in connection with heated parlors and over- dressed yet undressed women, that she looked the most fitting por- tion of this fair country picture. He waited for her to speak. She drew a long breath, slightly shook herself, winked her eyes as though still somewhat dazzled by the splendor of the falling sun, and said: "You see, Mr. Allington; I told you I was nothing of a talker; and, in fact, I forget all about you while looking at the clouds.  You must excuse me. "Of course. I presume I might take it as a compliment by supposing that nothing less than the sun could eclipse me." "No, indeed. I neither pay compliments nor wish to receive them"    "Then, you know that you are deserving of them. Now, I had a superbly elaborate and highly polished one just on the tip of my tongue, all prepared for your benefit," Thank you, I will take the will for the deed. Is it not curious that while in nature we see the most inharmonious colors-so called-fused together into a mass of exquisite beauty, painters should be obliged to create a thoroughly artificial system of com- bining them? Artists always seem to be afraid of handling them as she does." "But how can they? Take this rose, for instance; here are green and blue. What would you style that combination in a dress?" "Horrid," she said emphatically. "Yet in the flower you admire it. I cannot see what else painters can do than make the most of their colors. If any mixture, or juxtaposition rather, offend' the eye, we may be sure that there is something wrong. But I wanted to speak of something besides the aesthetics of optics. Does not Miss Wharton talk of anything but ritualism?  "Certainly. Why do you ask?" "Because at dinner she consumed at least three-fourths of the time in a dissertation upon the comparative merits of candles. I like women to be religious, but consideration of petty detail to the exclusion of everything else is rather fatiguing." "She is very earnest. I have known her to get up at five o'clock on a winter's morning to go to church." "I suppose that the younger Miss Wharton has a hobby also?" "You must not ask me, Mr. Allington, to tell tales out of school," replied Miss Vevere laughing. "But at all events I may be permitted, I trust, to inquire what you devote your attention to. At the present day, as young ladies scorn housekeeping and all domestic affairs, they usually turn to some special pursuit, and I presume that you are no exception to the rule." "No, indeed, though you are greatly mistaken in supposing that I know nothing of housekeeping. I flatter myself that in the vay of cookery I am quite a cordon bleu; the kitchen has no ter- *ors for me." "Accept my sincerest compliments, Miss Vevere," said Paul,     36         LOSING TO WIN. bowing with mock solemnity. It is truly gratifying to meet a young lady whose soul is not above the prosaic causes whereby we live and move and have our being. I should hardly have imagined it from your appearance, however; you look more like one given to poetry, moonlight walks, and that sort of thing." 4 So I am. I have tried painting, but as I never found any diffi- culty in talking aesthetics during dinner, so I can see nothing incom- patible between poetry and pudding." "Bravo!" exclaimed Allington, continuing the easy familiarity on short acquaintance which is not one of the least astonishing results of our civilization. "Do you often resemble Mr. Wegg in dipping into poetry in a friendly way?" "No. I confine myself mostly to painting-or, perhaps I should say, to attempts at painting." "I wish you would let me see some of your productions." She shook her head merrily. "You must wait until I have known you longer. But we should return to the house." Allington shrugged his shoulders. You wish me to undergo another discourse upon candles." They directed their steps towards the piazza, where were the others, the cool, fragrant shadows closing behind and stretching after them long and dusky arms. i - r ',i I   CHAPTER V. "BIRDS STUFFED BY JOHN SNOGGLES." OME short distance down a small narrow street running from -what'is called Printing-House Square to the East River, stands a brick building so undersized that it looks as if it had not yet attained its full growth, while the bulging front wall and decaying bricks would seem to show that it has passed into the period of decrepit age. The edge of the roof is tattered, hanging down, in ragged shingles, like the scattered hair of second childhood, and the rickety windows bear a faint resemblance to its feebly winking eyes. The door is low and contracted,- though occupying a good half of the building's width; the other half being taken up by a show window. It is this window which constitutes the peculiarity of the shop, a perennial admiration-tempered with awe for the skill displayed-to the dirty-faced boys of the neighborhood." A fly- blown, dusty card in a prominent position announces in rheumatic broken-backed letters "All kinds of stuffing done here." The ap- pearance of the window justifies the assertion; it presents to the' spectator a motley collection of birds, from which if any one were to learn his natural history he would come to the not unjustifiable conclusion that all departments of ornithology were characterized by an immense infliction of subcutaneous distortions. Here were the parrot and the canary, both lopsided; the robin and the blue- bird with more malformations and irregularity of outline than ever delighted the wide-eyed student of an anatomical museum. Each bird presented himself as an object of sympathy for the miserable existence he must have dragged out while in the flesh; many were so indescribably perverted that their death could be easily ac- counted for by the supposition of suicide induced by an accidental sight of their images reflected in a brook. A dilapidated sign over the door gave in faded letter the name of him who owned this zoological purgatory, where animals under-     38         LOSING TO WIN. went the punishment due to their crimes in life: it was John Snoggles. Mr. John Snoggles was a little, lean, bald-headed man, with small red eyes, turned-up nose, shrivelled mouth, and a retiring chin which seemed to attempt retreating into the neck, in which attempt it was nearly successful. Mr. Snoggles' ears were large, -iolating every law of physiological proportion in being at least one-third longer than his nose; with resolute self-assertion they stood out decidedly on each side his head, and had a curious trick of twitching at the lobe whenever their owner became excited or nuch interested. Just at this moment they kept up a constant dance, for Mr. Snoggles Nwas hard at work giving the finishing touches to a re- made chimpanzee which was destined to represent in a travelling shoow the celebrated anthropoidal ancestor. The beast was quite five and a half feet high, and Mr. Snoggles was obliged to stand upon a stool in order to properly adjust the ears; itwas kept in an upright position by means of several wooden rods whose lower ends were fastened to its pedestal. "There," ejaculated Mr. Snoggles, giving his handiwork a sounding slap of satisfaction, and stepping backwards a few paces to admire it more readily. "There, just put a stick in his hands an' I'll be hanged if he won't look as natural as life. Zacha- riah!" Receiving no answer, he called again. "Wat's the matter now?" exclaimed a lachrymose voice from the bowels of the shop : "Wy, carn't you let a feller be?" B"Come here-I want you to look at this?" There shambled forth to where he stood a lanky form, almost exactly resembling that figure which Englishmen have by unani- inous consent declared to be the representative American-six feet high and obtrusively thin. The long arms terminated in big, bony hands, reaching nearly to the knees of the baggy trowsers which concealed the misery of his legs ending in feet so large that the contrast was somewhat as if a beanpole were erected upon a pair of advertising shoes. His long head ran up to a rounded point on the top and was scantily covered by tumbled whitish hair. The nose stood out between his high, protruding cheek-bones like a light-house on a sandy shore, while his goggling, fishily-dim eyes were its dying-out lamps. His peaked chin, inefficient as it   "BIRDS STUFFED BY JOHN SNOGGLES."       39 looked, supported a poor relation in the- shape of a wiry tuft of light-red beard that curled outward, and whose motto was it Excel- sior." His whole appearance was dejected and drooping-he was evidently one of those anomalies so often produced by New Eng- land whose only aim in life is to drift aimlessly. "There," repeated Mr. Snoggles, his small eyes glistening with self-approval; "what do you think of that, Zack?" using an ab- breviation employed only in moments of good humor. "Waal," drawled the other, looking listlessly at the chimpan- zee, " it's pooty good." "Pooty good," retorted his master, indignantly. "You'd oughter know a nanimal better 'n that, before you come a-talkin' about what you don't know nothin' about. I tellyou this here ancestor of ourn is fixed up just as nice as any of them Paris fel- lows what they. talk so much of could do." "Who's it for?" asked Zachariah, sitting down on a stool, only too glad, after the manner of his kind, to knock off work on however slight a pretext. For Mister Burton," replied Snoggles, also sitting so that he could still keep his admiring eyes fastened upon the chimpanzee. "You know he's gitting up a big show for the winter, an' he wants him to illustrate what he calls Darwinism." "Wat's that?"  And Zachariah, seeing every prospect of a lengthy talk, with the ulterior chance of an argument--in which like every New-Englander' of his stamp he thoroughly revelled- drew forth a clay pipe, filled and lit it. "Wat's that," he again asked as Mr. Snoggles failed to reply, lazily puffing out a cloud of smoke. "Well, I dinno exactly," Mr. Snoggles replied, meditatively scratching his head; ,it's somethin' like that our great-grand- fathers, ever so far back you know, were all a kind o' monkeys, Wand some time or ruther what's monkeys now 'll be just as good as we are." Do tell, though. That's cur'ous enough. Do you b'lieve it?" "Kinder. You see when one o' them big fellows says a thing, he's pretty sure tobe about right." "But it's agin Scriptur." "Sho, Zack," said Mr. Snoggles, with an air of intense con- sciousness that his knowledge was vastly superior to that of his workman. "Wy, there's lots o' things every day that's agin the   40         LOSING TO WIN. Bible. Don't it say that the sun rises, when you know it's the earth moving that makes us think so?" Zachariah removed the pipe from his mouth and stared earn- estly at his employer. "Be you a ninfidel, Mr. Snoggles?" O' course I ain't; I'm a philosopher." "Seems to me, it's just about the same thing." "No it ain't. A ninfidel don't believe nothin'; but a philoso- pher says perhaps things is so and perhaps they ain't; anyhow he'll think about 'em a little more before he says positive one way or the other. Now, I ruther guess that we've come down from this feller or somebody like him," laying his hand familiarly on the chimpanzee. "Then I wish we'd stayed like him," broke in a third voice, sullen and moody, as a young man who had just entered caught the last words. As he spoke he approached Snoggles. He was of about twenty-two or three years, well-knit, but with a slouching, slovenly gait which spoke of either despondency or a recklesness far in advance of his years. His hair and eyes were black, the latter dimmed and nearly concealed by the downcast lids. The skin of his face was unreasonably white with the unhealthy pallor which speaks of late hours. His physiognomy was such as may be seen in plenty throughout the city, belonging to boys with whom it is an even chance whether the tyranny of circumstances shall send them to the bad or lead them to the good. "Yes," he continued, flinging himself into a chair, "I wish we'd always stayed monkeys and never developed into men." "What's the matter now, Phil?" asked Snoggles, his expres- sion changing at once to one of kindly interest. "The same old story, Mr. Snoggles-mother's at it again, worse than ever. She's going to have the whole pack at her house to-morrow-curse 'em all!" he yelled in sudden fury, bringing his hand down violently o --the edge of the chair; then in cooler tones, "I tell you, it's pretty rough. I come home late at night, hungry, tired almost to. death, and find the house upside- down and nothing to eat anywher. Mother's out cavoting 'round, and of course the servant clears out too, with none of the beds made up, as likely as not. That don't seem like much, but it's always so. Why, I have not had a meal at home for over two      ?'^,, ,;3   "BIRDS STUFFED BY JOHN SNOGGLES."       41 months. Mother takes what she can get when she can, but I like sitting down to a decent-looking table. I could tell you a good many reasons why I feel bad about it, but there's no use in bothering you. It's infernally uncomfortable." It was hardly from any disinclination to trouble his friend that Philip Bilter refrained from entering into the details of his home- life, but rather on account of that odd instinct common to most men that any display of feeling is puerile. From early childhood he had been left to shift for himself, to scramble up the ladder of life as best he could. He had, naturally enough, soon perceived that while his presence was not very objectionable to his mother, she much preferred that he should not annoy her by asserting his individuality too often. Nor did he. The streets were kinder to him than his home, casual playmates more attractive than the absorbed and busy parent, and the outside attention more agree- able -than the inside neglect. He grew up and passed through the public school, where his neglected appearance often drew the question if he had no mother. The dirty knuckles would rub begrimed cheeks as he heard the sequent remark, ," She ought to take better care of you." Being a posthumous child, he had never known a father, His elder brothers had all left home-if such it could be called--at a premature age; he himself had when very young entered a job printing office and gradually worked his way. up until he was now a first-class compositor. "Well, my boy," said Snoggles, laying his hand on Philip's shoulder, ", we all have our troubles and must grin and bear them." "I know that, but the way mother treats me isn't right. If I am a man, I cant help it; she ought to think as much of me as of any of those voting women." "That's so, Phil; you're just right there," said Mr. Snoggles. "Besides, she's always getting me into trouble. You remem- ber I was on the Cruiser-assistant foreman. It was a first-rate place. Well, what does she do-but come down and make an awful row 'cause they wouldn't print her articles. She lugged me into it somehow, and the result was that I got my walking papers." "It's too bad. What are you going to do now?" 'I don't know," said Philip dejectedly. I suppose I'll have to leave the city. I've been hunting for work ever since yesterday 1^r           ^^^^     42         LOSING TO WIN. morning, but I can't get anything to do even as an ' extra' on the. papers." His head sank forward and he seemed to be absorbed in deep thought. Mr. Snoggles looked at him for a moment, and then, as if sud- denly set in motion by steel springs, rushed to a cupboard in one corner of the room, wrestled with the door, and returned with a plate, knuckle of ham, and knife and fork. These he placed on Philip's knee. He next darted out of the shop, to re-enter an in- stant after with a quart of lager-bier, which he set down by the boy's side, and stood watching him with twitching ears. "There!" he ejaculated, using his customary safety-valve for the escape of emotion. "Tuck it all away, Phil; it will -do you good. Don't be afraid of the bier." From the eagerness with which Philip attacked the food it was plain that Mr. Snoggles' actions had been founded upon a base of divination. "I reckon your mother is one o' them wimmin righters," said Zachariah, testifying to his presence for the first time since Philip's entrance. "Yes," was the brief answer. "Wa-al, there was onct one o' them wimmin down in our parts, an' a sweet thing she was, too. She'd take care o' the house one week an' make her husband take care of it t'other week. One of her sons is in the penitentiary-leastway he was there about two months ago." When Philip had finished the ham and drained the can of bier, Mr. Snoggles spoke. "' I've got something for you, Phil." "What is it?" "Some time ago a reporter of the Globular wrote a description of my shop-I showed it to you, didn't I?"The question scarcely needed Philip's affirmative nod, for Mr. Snoggles had displayed the article to everybody who could be persuaded to look at it. "He was a funny little chap, an' give me a good cigar. His name's Grains. You go to him to-night at the office, 'bout ten o'clock's the best time, an' tell him you come from me. He'll help you if he can, I guess. You can take your supper here. Come along, you lazy Yankee, an' help me shut up-it's near eight o'clock." A lamp was lit, the shutters put in place, and Mr. Snoggles,   J"BIRDS STUFFED BY JOHN SNOGGLES."       43 now that the day's work was over, lit a pipe to enjoy a tranquil smoke sweetened by the reflection that he could bestow assistance upon one in need of it. Not long, however, did his rest continue for Zachariah, having elaborated  in his mind what he considered irresistible boxing-glove-like arguments, speedily entangled him in the mazes of a theological and philosophical discussion on the origin of species. The huge chimpanzee, moved to the background, stood there half in shadow, grotesquely illuminated by playing gleams from the lamp, and with his large paws uplifted seemed to be bestowing upon the trio an ancestral blessing. c . . ...  ,.5 !     CHAPTER VI. THE "GLOBULAR"OFFICE AT NIGHT. R. THOMAS GRAINS was twenty-six years of age, and ot MV  that twenty-six the latter half-dozen had been passed in the service of the Globular. For all his dignified position as a prominent writer upon a prominent paper, and he bore himself in such manner as to show that he was fully aware of his important place, no one dlreanled for an instant of styling him anything but "Tommy pure and simple. Tommy was marked on his face in charactersso legi- ble that acquaintances of only two days' standing made no scruple at usin the familiar designation. He pretended to resent this, blut was internally delighted that people should find him a desira- ble companion. Full to the brim with a dry, quaint humor, he had once much astonished all his friends by having printed a hundred visitinr cards on which his name was spelled "Tommie." When remonstrated with he declared that such terminology was all the fashion, that y is always made ie, and that he was but following the example set by milliners' girls and young ladies. No laughter could cause him to dlestroy these celebrated cards, and though he refrained from using them generally, he kept several on hand with which to astonish those seeking to know him. In figure he was so short as to be undersized, possessing that peculiar kind of stout- ness which makes a man to be called " stocky." His head was large in proportion to his body, bald on top and with a bumpy fore- head. ItHis eyres were small but keen, deep set and twinkling. The fat cheeks running down to a small rounded chin enclosed a large nose, like two parentheses enclosing an exclamation point. He was a vivacious writer, fond of a joke, and extremely addicted to twisting his sentences into elaborate mazes with strange out- of-the-way words for guide-posts. On this August evening it was stiflingly hot in the offices of the Globular, situated as they were at the very top of a high build-    THE "GLOBULAR"OFFICE AT NIGHT.        45 ing, up five flights of stairs. Seated at the various desks ranged along the wall in the reporters' room were men writing in their shirt sleeves: several had unbuttoned their collars, and the ends of their cravats were streaming over their shoulders. From the long room between the reporters' and editors' departments came the occasional sound of a compositor walking to the foreman's desk for another f" take " of copy, the monotonous click-click of types flying to their places, or the refreshing splash of water as the proof-galleys were washed. The inside pages of the paper had been sent down stairs and were now printing. The editorial page had not yet been made up, but the greater part of it was in type; the respec- tive writers thereof had dispersed to their several homes, with the exception of one solitary individual, who, pipe in mouth and green shade over eyes, stalked about waiting to see if any telegram should require a brief leader. In the reporters' room no noise was audible but the scratching of pens or a casual voice asking the location of a street or how to spell an unusual word. The city editor was at the desk nearest the door-the upper part of his face nearly concealed by an inordinate pair of blue spectacles and the lower by a large brown beard-engaged in not- ing down the various occurrences to be attended to on the, mor- row, and revising the reports already handed in. To him entered Philip Bilter. "Can I see Mr. Grains--one of the reporters?" Without stopping the rapid motion of his pencil as it ran over the lines supplying commas and semicolons--for some inscru- table reason one rarely sees colons in a daily paper-Mr. Campion called: "Grains, some one for you." Tommy's ears had already caught the sound of his name. Leaving his desk he came to the table in the centre of the room on which were the dictionary and files of all the papers. A mo- ment's glance showed that the visitor was unknown to him. "Look here, young man," he said in a tone of mock severity. "Do you know the difference between a nonpareil writer and a brevier paragraphist?" "Certainly." "Then don't call me a reporter," was the apparently rather inconsequent rejoinder, for Grains by virtue of rare short editorials ranked himself among the editors.     ".         LOSING TO WIN. Bilter smiled. "You remember Mr. Snoggles, sir?" That bird-stuffing old fellow? Very well indeed." ( He told me that if I mentioned his name to you that you would-perhaps-assist me to get a place here." "As what?" "Compositor." ( Do you belong to the Union?" "Yes : here is my card." "' I can do no more than take you to Mr. Saxton--the man- aging editor. What is your name?" "Philip Bilter." "Any relation to the Mrs. Bilter?" asked Tommy laughingly. I am her son," replied Philip, coloring and clenching his teeth. Grains eyed him curiously, not missing the show of feeling. "I should like to know more about you," he said, after a slight pause. Philip hesitated, but, looking upon the good-humored, kind countenance which amicably returned his gaze, repeated what lihe had already told Mr. Snoggles. "Come along," said Tommy upon its conclusion, jumping off the table where he had been sitting, swinging his legs, and leading the way to Mr. Saxton's apartment on the other side of the com- posing-room. A managing editor, the man who guides a daily paper, attends not only to the large matters of general policy but also the minor details-who organizes correspondence from everywhere as well as describing the manner in which the head-lines to an account of a bond robbery shall be written so as to secure the most attention- seems as if he should be represented after the manner of the statue of Victory on the Brandenburgh Thor in Berlin--driving prancing, rearing horses with steady hand. Mr. Saxton, however, was a very quiet-looking little man, and the only sign of power which his face manifested was in the well-developed muscles around the mouth and chin. Grains presented Bilter to him as an acquaintance, and after a few minutes' talk, Mr. Saxton told him that he might ask the fore- man to set him at work immediately. Philip was assigned a case and a number; and his first proof was so free from errors as to call forth encomiums from an unhappy proof-reader.   THE "GLOBULAR"OFFICE AT NIGHT.       47 ;:!"I shall not forget your kindness, Mr. Grains," said Philip, as he took off his coat preparatory to commencing. Tommy smiled and went back to his work. Some quarter of an hour later the door was again opened and the steady noise of scratching pens broken by the entrance of a young man. "First-rate murder up in the Eighteenth Ward, Mr. Campion," seating himself the best he could near the city editor's desk, on a chair from which the bottom and one leg had long departed, retained in that condition for the discouragement of visitors. "Murder, eh?" said the editor, pausing with uplifted pencil, and turning to face the speaker. " Who and what?" "A crazy woman chopped up her two children with an axe and then cut her throat." "Have you the account?" "No; I was coming down from Police Headquarters with Bates and Green when we heard the news. They went to write it up: Bates will do the outside scenes, and Green will describe the mur- 'I derand appearance of the bodies. They will have at least two columns about it, and will be here about one o'clock." "All right. Two  columns," continued Mr. Campion reflec- tively. A"Let me see-Witters, how about that canoe race?" "Column and a half," replied that individual, stopping to relight his pipe. "All the boats upset, and one of the fellows was nearly drowned." "Can't cut that-it's too good. Grains, how much have you written about the German festival?" "Half a column." "That's enough: I won't have room for any more." Grains' bristly red moustache went up towards his eyes in a remarkable smile as lie drew a long breath of audible satisfaction. For this relief much thanks: what is there new about lager- bier and gymnastics?" With this he handed his report to Mr. Campion, who was already revising the police notes brought him by the new-comer. Have you anything to do, Fred ?"he asked of the one who had just entered. "Not unless Mr. Campion has something for me." No,"said that gentleman.  ":You can go home, boys." Setting his, shirt and cravat in order and pulling on his coat,     48         LOSING TO WIN. Tommy Grains left the room with his companion, Frederick Bay- ner. This latter was a little younger than his friend, with a hand- some oval face ornamented by a narrow black moustache that drooped gracefully towards the firm, sharp-pointed chin. His thick black hair was cut short, curling closely to his round head in light crisp rings. His frame was slight but apparently well knit and vigorous. All his motions were lithe, free and active, distin- guished from the solid steps of Grains by a springy, nervous energy. Before long the two reporters were seated in a lager-bier saloon, the rotund, Bartlett-pear headed proprietor having torn himself away from his domingloving friends to place in front of each a frothing stone mug holding nearly a pint. They both sat silent for a while, it being their custom not to speak unless they had something to say. Both understood that a man is never really friendly with another unless he can remain silent in his presence without any sense of discomfort. Finally Grains spoke, after filling and lighting a brierwood pipe, black as jet with age and use, removing the mug from his lips and breath- ing hard from the exertion of swallowing half its contents at one draught. "Well, Fred, did you see Mr. Saxton this afternoon? He was inquiring for you." A"I met him at the foot of the stairs just as he was going home, and walked up Broadway with him while he told me what he wanted." "' Business, I suppose?" "Yes. It seems that there is talk of a row up the Hudson River at a place called Stemwell. The workmen in the brick-yard there are threatening a strike, and as they are mostly Irish there will probably be some disturbance. Mr. Saxton wishes me to write it up." "When are you going?" "To-morrow morning. That will give 'me the afternoon to look around in, and prepare my letter for the next day." "You're a lucky fellow to be sent out of town when it's so blazing hot. I wish that I were in your shoes." ( And you're a remarkably cool individual. Were you not at Sararoga two weeks for the races? What better could one want?" "Nothing, provided he did not buy French pools on the wrong horse as I did.."               A   ::J{::     THE "GLOBULAR"OFFICE AT NIGHT. A reporter should leave that amusement to gentlemen," said Bayner, laughing with a tinge of bitterness in his voice. "But I would like to have you along with me, Tommy, to assist in case of a row. Why did you bet, though, at the races; I thought:that you were saving with matrimonial prospects in view?" Grains' face clouded.    "Fortunately for me, Fred," he said seriously, "Iwas not hit very severely with Little Silva; if I had been really ill love you might have had to report a murder." "What do you mean?" The mug was lifted to Grains' mouth and emptied before he replaced it on the table. "We will have some more bier, first." When the mugs were refilled, he continued - "You remember when I did the books for the City Wee[,0y? I met Silva then--she was writing poems and articles on a salary. She was a charming little woman, with as pretty and sweet a face as ever an angel dreamed of. Well, she was getting along nicely living confortably on her pay, when she fell in with some of those women's rights people and became infatuated with their doctrines Some scoundrel-I wish to heaven I knew his name!--took advan- tage of the silly ideas about the reorganization of society with which she was inoculated.  I  saw her last Saturday, down stairs at the cashier's desk.  She had a baby in her arms. I tell you, Fred, it made my heart bleed to see how sad was her  countenance wit its" epeso ; and, of mute ;    h   t  ountenance with Its expressio n of mu te melancholy, and the features so pale and - drawn. I anglad she did not notice m e" * "Poor little woman " said Fred, for he too had seen and liked the graceful writer, "She is one of the earthen pots that go to the bottom while :' the brazen ones float u nconcernedly. It's well enough for so me to talk about free-love, but when a pretty girl g e ts to preaching those doctrines it is  not long before night comes." "Can we not save her from this frightful cesspool? She has yet opportunity to withdraw."' "I  asked Cam pion to let me re port the meeting at Mrs. B ilter's to-morrow, on purpose to see Silva and have a talk with her." "Do; and, T(,m m y, if I can assist you, call upon me of course. Could you   not take her to see Frank; a wo man could speak to her 'lmuch better than you or I!"     "OSING TO WIN. so                   I , Let s go home; , Perhaps," replied Grains; adding abruptly, "Let's go home; I am sleepy." Two cigars were Iproduced, and the glowing red stars moved up Broad\ars through the hushed air to Bleecker Street,where the friends parted, to meet again at brealfast for a further discussion of how best to assist "Little Silva."   CHAPTER VII. THE STRONG-MNDED IN FORCE. SOME houses, no less than second-hand clothes, present an as- pect of seediness. There are many such in that portion of the city lying to the west of Washington Park and in its immediate neighborhood. Originally the residences of wealthy citizens, before fashion had flown so far to the upper part of the island, in these latter days they have fallen upon evil times, and are now as pov- erty-stricken as could be any of their former enterprising owners. A house can go down hill like a man. When vacated by him who prefers a brown-stone front on the Avenue with all the modern improvements to the place which has witnessed the birth of his children and to which he brought his young wife, the building will fluctuate between hawk-nosed landladies and milliners with Hiber- nian names announcing themselves as from Paris. From a first- class boarding-house it will slowly but surely sink to one devoted to the reception of waifs and strays. The paint will become fainter and fainter, the shutters more and more dilapidated, and the brick front uneven. Parts of it will return to their condition of primeval chaos. Over it will brood that atmosphere of desertion and ne- glect which marks these buildings as the old bachelors of bricks and mortar. Its last change cannot then be far off, and is soon announced by the white flag elevated as a surrender to destiny, consisting of rags stuffed in to replace broken panes of glass. -  From this moment all is over. The once proud edifice, referred to in its ancient days as a mansion," has descended to the tene- K  ment-house level. Thenceforward its only hope is in demolition, so that it may arise from ruin in the form of a spick and span iron store. Mrs. Bilter's residence in Bank Street belonged to the class of seedy houses. It had- not yet been very greatly reduced in the world, but its pinched appearance, its uncared-for look, showed it     52         LOSING TO WIN. to be on the downward road. It needed washing, painting, re- pairing-in fact, an almost complete rehabilitation, resembling a man with an immense patch on his elbow of which he is painfully conscious. A gentle breeze called forth an appallingly asthmatic death-rattle from the expiring windows; the once even line of white 1mortar b)etw\een the bricks was dingy and ran in irregular curves; the roof seemed cominng down by the head like a foun- dering ship, and even the door tottered on its hinges. It was the clay of the women's rights meeting. In a small front parlor stood Mrs. Bilter in such an exceedingly upright attitude that she looked like a general reviewing a troop of chairs. Real militia they were ; of all sizes and every possible variety, decked in all manner of uniform, the pretentious russia leather elbowing the humble cane. They were short-legged, long- legged, dropsical and consumptive. Hardly a human infliction could be iInagined which was not possessed by one of this collec- tion, from tremulousness down to elephantiasis. This latter had seized upon a low, old-fashioned leather-seated chair whose thick, squat legs showed the progress of the disease. Several seemed suffering' under a severe attack of incipient delirium tremens, evin- cing speedy dissolution. Mrs. Bilrer eyed them severely as though they were sentient and she would for the last time impress upon their minds the duty they owed to themselves and to society; then turned and paced up and down the apartment. She did not walk Nwith that sinuous gliding motion which is one of beauty's chief charms, but moved forward with head erect, chin thrust out, and an even, steady tread learned at a moral West Point. Her filure was tall and thin; the sallow skin was quite yellow on the temples and around the corners of her mouth. Her high nose was sharp and very skinny at the bridge, shining with an almost livid tint. The thin lips met so firmly over her large, outward- bending teeth that the only sign of a mouth was confined to a faint Durplish line. Her projecting chin might have been taken for the cow-catcher of that locomotive of which her nose was the smoke-stack and her hair the smoke, drawing the train of mighty ideas destined to revolutionize the world. Dressed in some sad- colored garment, not quite long enough to cover her large feet' a stranger wouldl have taken her for a woman of the middle class -perhaps an undertaker's wife, accustomed to making shrouds-and looked a second time to study the expression, of   THE STRONG-MNDED IN FORCE.        .53 concentrated earnestness and force common to those who devote themselves intently to one idea. Her eye was of a cold, grey color, hard and flint-like, though occasionally great excitement could hammer fire from it and cause it to flash viciously, when it had a trick of turning sideways like that of a wicked horse. Al- though her dress was of good material an air of neglect was per- ceptible; the collar was soiled and lopsided, the skirt lower on one side than on the other, her shoes down at heel, the extremities of her fingers stubby with nails bitten to the quick and far from clean. Mrs. Bilter paused in her self-asserting walk to look at the clock, which, like the house, was seedily decrepit, ticking with a slow, wearily monotonous sound, as if dolefully conscious of the debt it must pay to time and unpleasantly aware of its very small balance. The attenuated hands--thin as though worn to the bone by hard work, moving with a jerky motion that seemed to imply a hesitation whether it would not be better to stop altogether and give up life as a bad job-pointed to half-past two. This was half-an-hour later than the designated hour, but, somehow, reform ers are always late. The more a man wishes to revolutionize the world, the more time he takes about commencing. Time was made for slaves, and as reformers are determined to be free they begin by demoralizing that estimable old gentleman. Women reformers, by virtue of their sex, enjoy the privilege of never keeping appointments unless a special providence intervene to produce them at the right moment. The first comer was Tommy Grains. He entered with an amused twinkle in his eye, saying, as he bowed slightly in response to Mrs. Bilter's stare. "Reporter from the Globzular." "I am delighted to see you, sir," said Mrs. Bilter, taking his hand and hauling it towards her with the motion one would use in pulling an oar while rowing. "Delighted to see you. We are always happy to receive our friends of the press-that wondrous engine whose throbs are felt from the forests of Maine to the blue waters of the Gulf, and whose advocacy of a cause insures its triumph over bat-like minds which still grope in the Cimmerian darkness of old-world ideas." Tommy thought that he recognized this burst of eloquence as an old friend which he had often met in Mrs. Bilter's public speeches, ^tspbces     54         LOSING TO WIN. but he merely asked if she could not provide him with a table at which to write." ( I can take notes on my hat, you know, but that's' not very comfortable." Mrs. Bilter would be only too pleased to furnish him with whatever Ihe might require. A table was placed in one corner of the room, and there Grains took his seat, waiting for the meeting to begin. The table, like all the other furniture, was. literally- on its last legs and so paralytic that Tomrnmy involuntarily looked for the stains of Congress water upon it. But the only marks were a fenw delusive traces that appeared as if a whirlwind of repairing had at some distant period swept over it with no other result than of leaving the look said to be produced by a patched elbow--that of premeditated poverty. The feeble-minded clock summoned up resolution enough to strike three very rapidly, and sank back into silence as though abashed by its boldness, for at the sound Mrs. Bilter fixed upon it her hard eye, apparently amazed at its temerity. And now the reformers began to arrive. Like all professional reformers they were a very queer-looking set. Faces were no dis- tinction of sex. Most of the women had their hair cut short and parted on one side; most of the men wore their hair long and parted in the middle. One venerable sage had his silvery locks curled in long ringlets that fell below his coat collar. The women were buttoned up in a sort of coat ; the men wrapped themselves in the forlornest of shawls, while the head-coverings looked as though they had been picked indiscriminately out of a miscella- neous heap. Some carried umbrellas of a defiant appearance, with iltrusive ribs and self-asserting bone handles, hardly less rigid than the fingers that clutched them. The greater number of women ,were virgins of an uncertain age, which polite periphrasis is equivalent to declaring that their age was so far certain that the less said about it the better. They possessed eagle eyes, hawk noses, and a curious sparrow-like friskiness in moving around the room exchanging remarks with their friends. Flat-breasted, high- shouldered and spectacled they seemed to regard youth and beauty as personally insulting. About them all there was an air of defiant pugnacity, a manner of courting combat, as if perpetually chal- lenging an imaginary world to knock a metaphorical chip off a logi- cal shoulder. Two or three would have been quite good-looking   THE STRONG-MNDED IN FORCE.        55 were it not for the brazen stare in their countenances and the eyes dead to thoughts of tenderness or home. Indeed, these ladies boasted themselves' far superior to that dictate of conventionalism which forbids the simultaneous ownership of more than one hus- band, and conscientiously acted out their theory. The men were for the greater part mysterious beings, coming none knew whence and disappearing none knew whither. As when in the society of some people a point of honor necessitates not asking any question which involves the production of a watch; with these gentry it was needful to never ask for an address, and an allusion to rent would have been considered in bad taste. How they obtain a living is a problem not to be solved by one of the profane; suffice it him to know that when any meeting on any possible subject is to be held there shall he find the professional reformer, loaded to the muzzle with an idea that is to prove a pan- acea for all human woes. If he have not any remedy on hand, he can at least make a most eloquent speech in favor of destroying every present institution to give place for something else. To-day they mustered in strong force at Mrs. Bilter's.. There was one gentleman of a remarkably benevolent aspect, with a mild blue eye and quavering mouth. His dream   was universal peace, and in order to secure it he proposed having first one great war all over the world in order to extirpate everybody of contrary sentiments. He was elbowed by a gentleman who thought that the only safety of society lay in the immediate demolition and laying waste of all cities. Another mild-mannered man wished to hang every capital- ist to the nearest lamp-post, abolish all banks and divide all land; this done, everyone would be happy forever afterwards. Still another was firmly persuaded that the world would never go right until mankind accepted as valid spiritual communications made in outrageous defiance of all dictionaries; while his neighbor wished to commence operations by tearing down all churches and suppress- ing the Supreme Being by statute. The room being comfortably filled, Mrs. Bilter stationed her- self at one end of the mantel-piece-near which were seated Grains and two other reporters from different papers-and called out in a loud voice: "The meeting will please come to order." A buzz ran through the ranks of those who had been fortunate  enough to secure chairs, while the discomfited ones who were     5 6         LOSING TO WIN. compelled to stand, looked at them savagely, crying "Silence! Hush! Order!" "You know, my friends," continued the president, or presidentess as she Awould have styled herself, " that this assemblage is called merely for the purpose of taking steps concerning our grand dem- onstration, and deciding what addresses shall be delivered there. For such an informal gathering as this it would be useless to elect vicc-presidentesses and secretaries, so we had better proceed at once to the object of our meeting." "I protest in the name of all enlightened wimmin," said an ancient lidamsel, risinlg like a jack-in-the-box, " agin Mrs. Bilter's thinkin' she's a-goin' ter run this meetin' all alone. We're all free an' enlightened, I guess, an' hev just as much to say about it as shel ha,s." Mrs. Bilter frowned, answering acidly: "I propose dispensing Ewith officers merely to facilitate the transaction of business. If Mrs. -no, I beg pardon -Miss Thrugg- Stcr lhas aidy remarks to make, I am sure that we shall be happy to h ear tl}heml." This sly refletion on the preceding speaker's state of vestal freeidom was one of those shots which even reformers are some- time , worldly enough to aim at each other. Only women can properly direct them, and, it might be added, that only women feel tltcir full effect if Miss Thruggser's reply be taken as a criterion. "Oh, yes," she cried sarcastically; "it's very well for you to pride yourself on bein' married, an' try to laugh at me 'cause I ain't. I'd be ashamed of myself to hev had such a husband as yourts, a poor little dried-up weazened anatomy-" tcire thlose ewlho were complacently seated called "Order! OrdlCer t " while the irate standers of course vociferated "Go on." lBut Mrs. Bilter at length succeeded in obtaining sufficient silence to 1nakle iherself heard. "W\e are not assemblled to listen to the venomous outpourings of a disaplpointeld woinax who naturally feels hurt that her chase of menil has b)een unsuccessful. ["( I ain't," shouted Miss Thrugg- ser; "I tlespise 'min. I hate 'emi!" Miss Thruggser," suddenly chan-ing, her tone from one of lofty impersonality to direct attack, "this is my house, and if you don't like our manner of attending to aftfirs \ou can leave it." Miss 'Thrugo-ser arose, jumped up rather; looked Mrs. Bilter    THE STRONG-MNDED IN FORCE.         57 steadily in the eye and snorted defiantly three several times, each vehement sniff throwing her head farther back. Then she delib- erately snapped her fingers at the'worthy president with a crack like that of a wooden pop-gun, and majestically strode towards the door. But her dramatic exit was spoiled by a gush of fury that made her turn and exclaim, her body trembling with excite- ment: "You'll be sorry for this-see if you ain't. I'll expose you in every newspaper in the country. Oh, you'll be sorry. " As the street door banged behind her, Mrs. Bilter remarked calmly, "We are well rid of one who would disturb the harmony of our forward march. Let us, now, consider our great demon- stration. I have inquired a tseveral halls in the city whether we could use them, but the brutal owners all refused to abate one dollar of their regular price. [Murmurs of "Shame," in which both sitters and standers joined.] I told them that we were women, and they said that if we wanted men's rights we must pay like men. [Renewed murmurs of "Shame."] But the glorious case pro- gresses. I entered into a long argument with the proprietor of Star Hall, and after a discussion of one hour and a half, he agreed to let us have it one day for twenty-five dollars-the society to pay for the gas. [A voice, "Your eloquence conquered."] No," she said with an assumption of modesty; {" it was our principles which won the victory, as they will surely triumph in the end if the agita- tion be but kept up. Oh, friends, when shall we see the dawn .of the glorious day that is to witness the downfall of man-behold our emancipation from the bonds riveted upon us by his tyrant hands, and which for so many years have crushed and dwarfed the noble outreachings of our souls?" She paused for breath, and her countenance lengthened con- siderably as she glanced at the reporters and perceived that in- stead of taking down  her ardent words, they'were abstractedly biting the ends of their pencils or drawing diagrams on the yellow paper of their note-books. "Let us pass directly to the question of finances," resumed Mrs. Bilter, recovering from her momentary discomfiture. "I call upon the treasurer to state the amount of funds in her hands." The treasurer. was one of the women mentioned as possessing i quite a fair share of good looks, although there was a curious ex- pression about her mouth and eyes as if life had nothing more to     5S         LOSING TO WIN. reveal. This expression gave to her face a hard, unsympathetic cast, precluding ideas of feminine delicacy. In repose her mouth was firmly closed, but not so firmly as to entirely conceal the voluptuous fullness of the over-ripe lips, nor enough to give an air of decision to the weak chin. She was better dressed than any of the others. "I have succeeded in collecting fifty dollars since our last meeting," she said, " forty of which go into the treasury. I retain ten for my personal expenses in accordance with the arrangement which was decided on when I assumed the office." "Perfectly correct," said Mrs. Bilter. "We have now con- cluded all that is needful to be brought before the society, and our friends here," turning to the reporters, "can announce that our next meeting will be held at Star Hall, where we hope to welcome all who favor the movement. The public are cordially invited to attend." Mrs. Filter-though she had arranged everything herself, al- lowed no other person to have ever so faint a voice in any matter, and i(nominiously expelled Miss Thruggser for daring to raise an expostulatory note-yet believed that she did nothing unless after deliberate consultation with her fellow-members. Her individu- ality was so intense that it overshadowed the others, dwarfing them by its size and reducing them to comparative nullities. As she paused after her last remark, an elderly woman with a narrow chest, flat as a shingle, and shoulders so round that could her head have been turned she would have had a most matronly bust, stood up. Settling her spectacles astride a nose that pro- jected like the jib of a yacht, she said in a shrill voice: "I hope you are going in good and strong for the abolition of all marriage. What we want is that each soul shall be left to seek its mate in native simplicity, untrammelled and unhampered by any of the laws which at present hinder its free working." "You may be sure," replied Mrs. Bilter wincing, "that the subject will receive a due amount of attention. There will proba- bly be some reference to it in the discourse with which Mr. Peleg Smithers will-I hope-favor us before dispersing." Two of the reporters, to whom the redoubtable orator was known, precipitately fled for the door as they saw his lumbering form slowly rising like a puffy Venus from the sea of shawls and hair with which he was surrounded. Mr. Peleg Smithers presented   THE STRONG-MNDED -IN FORCE.         59 the phenomenon of a fat reformer, so clumsily shaped that he seemed to have grown by some monstrous process of accretion, catching every particle of adipose tissue that floated by. His lower jaw was heavy and garnished with pendulous bags of fat that overran his face till they nearly submerged the short, aspiring nose. His eyes were small, and set far back in his head as if frightened and trying to hide. His forehead was narrow, round- ing outwards and running up into a point on the top of his bald head, which was polished and shiny as a billiard-ball. When upon his feet, he rocked himself back and forth for a moment or two, gazing at his audience with a greasily benignant smile; then spoke in an unctuous tone,'wheezing at intervals. "We are met, dear fellow-citizens and citizenesses, to protest against the tyrannical laws which in this age of falsely called civil- ization fetter and shackle our true soul-growth. The world will soon come up to our views, and then will commence the true era of universal happiness. The sooner all now existing is utterly wiped out the better. We who are the pioneers of reform have vouchsafed to us visions of the future which are never revealed to those base members of the herd who are content to grovel in their benighted darkness. We must work on, work ever, to make our principles more widely known, more generally accepted. Many of us, here present, will see the time when peace and true happiness shall everywhere prevail-the glorious time when woman, fireed from the trammels of sex, shall attain her full devel- opment; when soul shall meet soul, apart from the clogging rules of custom, and marriage be wiped out. Then will women be truly happy." h. The murmur of applause following this burst was broken by the sound of a timid footstep in the hall; the door of the parlor was pushed open, and Grains, looking up from his notes, saw standing there, a picture within a frame, the pale and wan figure of"Little Silva." 4, 1-gE6 I7      CHAPTER VIII. A YOUNG MAN AND A YOUNG WOMAN. M UCH to the scandal of the assembled reformers and to the especial disgust of the speaker, Tommy Grains, who had hitheirto been busily engacged in taking copious notes, no sooner p)erceivedd the new-comer than he immlediately put away his pencil and book and crossed the room to her side. As she saw him approaching her eyes lightened for a moment, then she turned her hetad half inmpatiently and steadfastly looked in another direc- tion. I-e 1)aid no attention to this, but took her hand and drew her folrth into the hall, shutting the door behind them. From the interior caine the low, monotonous drone of Mr. Smithers' speech. Comne outside with me, Silva; I have something to say to VOU. "No, no," she replied in the half-impatient manner with which she lad(1 looked away fromn him, adding fretfully, "You had best leave miie here with my friends." "Friends!" he echoed indignantly. "Ay, as friendly to you as pilke arle to minnows. You must not associate with them any more. I)o yoi understan(d; you shall not. Come." He i)laced her unresisting arm within his own and led her from the house, slammingc the front door vindictively: he led her into Greenwich Avenue, through a lager-bier saloon into a garden at the t)acl, dotted with benches and tables and a few trees set out in tuths. Here they sat down in the warm, sensuously sweet air of summler, the city- din coming to them in a muffled roar occasionally btroken by the jangling[ of street-car bells. She had submitted to his dictation in a nerveless, dispassionate mode lwhich caused him great grief: rather would he have pre- ferred some resistance to his imperiously expressed will; some symptom, slight as it nmight be, of personal assertion. This spirit-   :;:       A YOUNG MAN AND A YOUNG WOMAN.         61 less yielding showed him more fully than he had deemed possible, how broken, how thoroughly shattered was ,the once pretty wil- fulness, the childish obstinacy which had formerly manifested itself in every trait. He determined at all hazards to break up this horrible apathy, which pained him more than could have done any flaunting display of recklessness: she was so perfectly cowed and passive. Little Silva was much changed from the bright, fresh girl whom he had seen for the first time a year ago. Her thin brown hair was carelessly gathered into a net from which escaped stray, wandering locks. The large hazel eyes, once softly luminous, were sunken and glassy and surrounded by purple rings. The pure complexion had gone, giving place to a waxen pallor, terribly suggestive of that deep, hollow cough which brings thoughts of clods falinag into a grave. Her hand had become thin, exposing the almost livid blue veins, and trembled slightly when she held it forth. The faded plaid shawl folded over her bosom could not conceal how the plumply rounded figure had wasted away. Grains looked at her earnestly, a choking lump rising in his throat, She waited, in perfect quietude, for him to speak. "What are you doing now, Silva?" he said, abruptly. Very little," she answered in a weak, tremulous voice; " you know I lost my reviewing for the Reader when I was-was ill ;" the quavering tones died faintly away. "I know; but I  applied for the place and got it, meaning to do the,work only until you were able to resume it. You can have it to-morrow, if you wish." A  feeble smile flitted over the listless features. "You are very good." No--I am  not. That's nothing; I  would do the same for any one. But you have not told me what you are writing." "I 'can sometimes sell an article to the women's papers, but -; i not often. It is hard to make both ends meet."  So I   should think. You must recommence y  r reviewing immediately, and never write another line for any of tl ose women's papers.   One or two are good enough, but you mu Sclear ofthelnm entirely.  What were you at Mrs. Bilter's for? You must cut all that crowd. " "If you say so, I  will," she replied submissively. He could     62         LOSING TO WIN. not arouse her into any self-demonstration; she assented to all that he commainded, though he endeavored to make his words sound harsh. Perhaps his vigorous organization, his unconscious nanifestation of the right to interest himself in her affairs had something to do with this. "\hat were you at Mrs. Bilter's for?" he repeated. She had no thought of refusing to answer, and replied simply, "I was very hungry." She leaned her head on her hand, and a few hot tears trickled through the slender fingers. Tommy sprang to his feet. "Hungry! he shouted; then, with a groan, "Poor little woman-and you live this way." He flung himself down on the bench at her side, and putting his arm around her waist, drew her to him. She reclined her head on his shoulder, the tears flowing rapidly, saying in broken tones, Oh, Tommy, I have been so miserable." Their backs being towards the saloon, the fat proprietor looking from his throne behind the counter took them for a pair of lovers, and congratulated himself upon the progress German customs were making in America. He presumed that after the manner of Ger- man lovers generally they would wish to support their sentiment \with bread and cheese, and was so far right that Tommy soon entered to order the best meal which the establishment could produce. Returning to Silva, whom his absence had sufficed to reduce to a state of comparative tranquillity, he resumed his former seat on the opposite bench, having the table between them. He was afraid to trust himself too near her, having determined that the limit he had set to his feelings should not be passed. His heart was so full that it made his eyes moist from the overflow. They sat in silence until the breakfast was brought. When it appeared Tolmmyn said, "I will finish my notes and send them dl,),vn to the office. Then I shall have nothing more to do until night." The fat proprietor thought it very odd that he should leave his sweetheart to eat alone, when Grains came to a table inside and commenced writing. Fifteen minutes sufficed to complete his report, which was duly comic as Mr. Campion had directed-the puffy prophet furnishing a fine opportunity for sport-despatch it   A YOUNG MAN AND A YOUNG WOMAN.         63 down town and leave him free for the remainder of the day. But he waited until Silva should have ended her meal, thinking, not altogether inaccurately, that she might not wish him to notice how much she needed the timely food. Rejoining her, he saw from the appearance of the dishes that she had been indeed very hungry, and felt happy to now conjugate that obnoxious verb in the past tense. He made her empty a small glass of brandy into the coffee, which had not only the effect of rendering drinkable the execrable beverage called by that name in most German saloons, but also brought a faint tinge of color to the faded cheek. "Where are you living, Silva?" asked Tommy, pursuing his course of questions, "I have a room in Fourth Avenue, near Twentieth Street." "You must give it up and go to live with a friend of ours- Frank Sturdy. Do you know her? ' "I do not. But-you say a friend of ours." "Yes; of Fred. Bayner's and of mine; an artist in clay." "But-but-Tommy, I am not alone. I must take my child with me." "Of course. I don't want you to desert it, though your friends over there "-erking his head in the direction of Bank Street- "would undoubtedly recommend you to do so." She remained silent, thoughtfully toying with a spoon. It was strange to see this young man and this girl so c mly sitting there, discussing how to repair the fragments of a shattered life, restraining whatever leaping thoughts might be struggling within their breasts for utterance. Grains did not give himself the trouble to analyze his sentiments; enough for him that he had the power to assist Little Silva. He felt towards her as he would have felt towards a cherished comrade who had fallen by the wayside and whom  he was determined to rehabilitate to the utmost extent of his two pence. For one brief moment, when she had been weeping convulsively upon his shoulder, strange thoughts-strange from   their novelty-had germinated in his rain and sprung into quick life. But he had plucked them out resolutely and flung them afar off. He would treat her as kindly as he would an unfortunate friend; beyond that-nothing. On the other hand, Silva accepted his interference as a matter of course. Before her acquaintance with Mrs. Bilter, she and Grains ,:: :     "         LOSING TO WIN. had been closely associated, meeting upon that neutral ground where sex counts for nothing-common to all engaged in the same pursuits. They were merely two workers who happened to like each other; that was all. Now, when she was in trouble and grief, it appeared quite natural that he should come to her aid. She was so borne down by the great sorrow which had broken her life, that she took any outstretched hand of sympathy readily, without inquiring what motives might prompt the action. "So, then," continued Tommy, "you will go and live in the same building with Frank?" a"Yes-I suppose so-I dont care," said Silva wearily. "Why should you worry yourself about me? It makes no difference what I do. No one cares whether I live or die." Again her head sank forward to rest upon her hand, but Grains' words made her lift it and regard him attentively. He spoke strongly, but his feelings were stronger; he spoke rapidly, but thoughts w\ere running through his mind more rapidly still. "Somebody does care, Silva, and you shall not say that. Fred cares, I care, everyone cares that ever read any of your writings. Do as I tell you; in a short time you will be well and strong and feel like yourself. You will then perceive better than I can tell what a fearfully morbid condition your mind is in. You must wake up. Do not throw away the rest of your life because of the past. You have still plenty of friends-we will all help you to get along, and you shall get along, well. For God's sake, wake up; throw off tis dreadful lethargy. If you cannot be again the merry, cheer- ful girl vou used to be, at least show some sign of animation." "You are right, Tommy-good, kind friend," she said with more vitality than she had yet exhibited. "I should not forget that there is another life dependent upon mine." "But you can never be again the same Little Silva," mused Tom- my . De you remember the first time I saw you? It was at that scientific supper where we had jelly made out of old boots. You \were gay and happy enough then. I have still a small glove you rave me after our dance together. Do you remember?" "Yes." In a quick outhurst of wild anguish that she was unable to repress, she tossed her arms aloft with a cry that seemed wrenched from her heart. "God! that I had never been born!"   A YOUNG MAN AND A YOUNG WOMAN.         65 :a  Again the choking lump came up in Tommy's throat, but he gulped it down manfully, though his eyes moistened. t "' And do you remember that night when we went to see the new burlesque? How you were so pleased with one of the songs that I got it for you, and you used to sing it to me? How you laughed at the umbrella-dance; how you roasted some oysters at your room afterwards, and I went tick for the bottles of bier? Ah, Silva, those were happy days." "Yes, Tommy; " she stretched out her hands to him. "I have forgotten nothing. You are always true-always kind. When I was ill, I had abundant time to think. I know now who sent me hot-house grapes and wine-jelly. Poor fellow; it was a heavy drain on a reporter's salary." She smiled faintly through the tears which were streaming down her face. "Never mind about that," said Grains, as cheerily as he could for the mist hovering before his eyes. "I do mind about it. Let me talk-it relieves me. You are the first to whom I have been able to speak freely since-since he left me. I cannot realize how I was led into the society of those free- lovers --she shuddered at pronouncing the hateful word--" it was some hideous infatuation. When I compare myself now with what I was before-ah, it is dreadful! If ever sin be atoned for by repent- ance and horror, mine should be forgiven. Many a night have I lain awake, praying that God might be pleased to let me die. But he has sentenced me to live. And when my child was born, that was the worst of all. At first I could not bear to look into its pretty lit- the dimpled face and think that it would have no nane; that some day it might even curse me for giving him a heritage of shame. And then I grew to love him ever more and more, as his tiny hands would pat my cheeks and his bright eyes gaze into mine, striving to to see his smile reflected there. Yes; I have suffered, bitterly suf- -i9  fered. I can partially understand how I was beguiled into the morass by lying will-o'-the-wisps that promised all unknown joys. When I was ill none of those people came to see me at the hos- pital; they were too much engaged regenerating the world. I sent word to Mrs. Bilter, and she replied that all women must endure their trials alone, and not count upon people whose time was taken' up with business. It may be harsh to suppose them heartless, but I think them so absorbed by their doctrines that they are dead to all else. To myself I seem to have been dream-     "         LOSING TO WIN. ing for many months past-even now I am hardly awakened. And to what a life must I return-corroded by the gnawing mem- ories which can never be destroyed." The soft tears flowed steadily down her face, but they were of repenting regret and not of despairing anguish. "It is hard, Silva, very hard," said Grains gently, pressing down the words that struggled to his tongue. "We can turn our pictures to the wall and hide their features the best we can. but the painting is always there. Life appears to me much like a kaleido- scope; all depends on the glasses through which we see it. The fact, the real, immovable fact is always the same, but by using dif- ferent colored spectacles we make them dull or bright, leaden with the tinge of gloom or glowing with the gleams of happiness. You have sinned against both your sex and yourself"-he purposely employed strong language, avoiding any sentimental palliatives- "and you have also sincerely repented. Close that volume then; throw it behind the bookcase and open a new one. The pages shall be perfectly blank, and you may write on them whatever char- acters you will." His earnestness stirred her as a fresh breeze does the surface of a slumbrous pool. "You have done me good, Tommy," she said, drawing a long, deep breath. Your words are invigorating as a strong, salt wind. No; life is not yet finished for me. Though my dress be stained by the mud in which I have fallen, I can henceforth walk in the right way. Would that I had always had you by me." You will see plenty of me in the future," was the response. "Now, if you are ready, we will go to Frank's." "I am ready," she said rising, passing her hand over her fore- I head as if brushing away cobwebs. "You are in no hurry to go home?" "No. I left my child at the Kindergarten in Sixteenth Street. They will care for him there until I call." They passed out into the Avenue; Silva seeming a different woman from she who had entered, walking firmer, with a light in her eyes like one who has been awakened from an evil dream. The fat proprietor looked after them with the eyes of drowsi- ness, and that night confessed to his circle of friends that he could not and never would understand American love-making.   CHAPTER IX A PASSING GLANCE. COUNTRY life differs principally from a city existence in that one is obliged to concentrate his attention rather upon indi- viduals than an aggregation of humanity. When surrounded by closely packed houses, hearing on every hand the roar of busy, multifarious life, feeling that one is but a bubble of the general seeth- ing of vitality; it is difficult, if not impossible, to bring thoughts to a focus so that they shall shine upon a single object. Atoms van- ish in the whole, the concrete merges into the abstract, and syn- thesis gives place to generalization. In the country, where one can associate with but comparatively few people, entities are more prominent; each individuality asserts itself, standing out distinctly from the background of semi-isolation. Characteristics, unchanged by continual attrition, unetiolated by an atmosphere breathed and rebreathed by thousands, obtain a fuller life, a more harmonious development. There is no longer the cramping influence of towns, but in its place a richer, larger growth. For this reason, the country comes to the jaded inhabitants of a city with such an indefinable sense of relief; somewhat as though he were released from a Procrustean bed. The total change from turbulent activity to placid repose'is like the contrast between the buzzing fly-wheel of an ever rapid clock to the majestic turn of a slowly sweeping mill-wheel. Whether the foregoing be correct or not, Paul Allington was satisfied of its truth as he sat in his now well-established place upon the piazza of his uncle's house, smoking an after-breakfast cigar, and revolving many things in his mind-lazily in accordance with the tacit invitation of the day. The soft fingers of Indian summer had already lightly touched a few trees, turning the leaves to a delicatelypale yellow; recent rains had washed the sunburnt tint from the grass and it shone in gleaming strength; the wide,     68         LOSINTG TO WIN. glistening river lay tranquil as a dream of peace. A tender, shim- mering mist filled all the distance, melting, near at hand, into the sensuous haze of late summer that is as soothing as the touch of caressing fingers. Muffled and faint came to him the far-off hum of the railroad as the mail-train ran forward, carrying its burden of letters and newspapers. But Allington was in no mood for either newspapers or any- thing which should bring to his mind, however remotely, a remi- niscence of the high-pressure life which he had for the time cast behind him. B efore coming to Stemwell he had been so intensely occupied that this complete mental repose was very refreshing; as refreshing as the delicious ease which follows prolonged muscular effort. He enjoyed the sunshiny light with the keenness of a plan- tation negro, and just at this moment -cared for nothing further than to bask in its dreamy influence. Like one of Tennyson's lotos-eaters he felt inclined to echo the song of longing after un- attainable, eternal quietude; to let all care, or even reflection, drift from him as the light mist drifted from the teeming earth. He had accepted his uncle's offer, and was living with him as his acknowledged heir. The short weeks passed at Stemwell had sufficed to comfortably establish him, and cause him to feel as though he had never quitted the place. Old associations were quickly revived, and old memories flowed forth as fresh and vivid as if new born in this summer of content succeeding the winter of his absence. The blue smoke floated tremblingly away as he flung the fin- ished cigar aside, and rose from the wicker chair, advancing to- wards two young ladies who were coming along the path leading from Mr. Wharton's place. They were Miss Wharton and Miss Vevere. "You are out early for a walk," said Allington after the usual salutations had been exchanged. "Yes," said Miss Wharton. "I have some visiting to' do among the brick-yard laborers, and Lily said that she would accompany me. I prefer going through private grounds as far as possible." "\Will you not let me give myself the pleasure of accompany- ing you also, Miss Wharton?" he asked. "I can't promise to edify your laborers, but I prefer society to communion with myself. You see that I am frank enough to avow my selfishness." .   A PASSING GLANCE.          69 Without further permission being requested or given, Allington went with them, down Mr. Denton's carriage road, past the lodge, and so on to the river. Paul walked by Miss Vevere. Instinctively he had taken that position, as he had sought her society in preference to that of the others since the night when he had first seen her. A subtle mag- netic influence drew him to her side: her fresh beauty, its lustre not yet dimmed by the fiery breath of fashionable campaigns; her artless displays of genuine, unaffected emotion, not yet entirely covered by the cloak of conventionality; -her pure simplicity; her sweet and gracious manner, and, above all, the whiteness of her mind and heart, transparent in its crystal lucidity as the waters of a limpid spring, exercised more of an attraction than he dreamed of shaping into the definiteness of clear-cut thought. Particularly ^was he affected by the latter quality. To one whose associates for many years had been those who had not only eaten but-' made a hearty repast off the tree of knowledge, it was inexpressibly sooth- ing to meet a nature unsullied as newly fallen snow without its repelling frigidity. Like every girl, Lily had consulted her glass sufficiently to be aware of her looks, and though totally devoid of vanity, could not but be conscious that she was beautiful. But her manner was so simple that this consciousness never manifested itself, only occa- sionally peeping forth in some trick of turning the head or carriage of the body. It was very different from that morbid recognition of self which makes its owner to be continually wondering what people are thinking, and whether each motion be prepossessing or not. Lily rarely thought about herself; when she did, it was prin- cipally how  that self could be so directed as to give pleasure. Nothing interferes more with self-consciousness than continued thought for others; and without recognizing this as a principle by which to shape her conduct, Lily was governed by it unwittingly. It led her to read carefully the papers and rmagazines showered upon hel by the younger Miss Wharton, and to attend the elder on her weekly raids among the poor. This young lady, with all her ritualism--perhaps in consequence of it-had at this period a fever for descending upon laborers' houses, reading to the wives and talking exaggerated baby-talk to the children. 'But the Americans put small trust in her, because she preached the obligation of remaining contented in that station   o70         LOSING TO WIN. of life to which we are born. Such an heretical doctrine as this, so opposed to all upward and onward tendencies, was listened to with little relish. Others distrusted her admonitions because they deemed her " popish," and being for the most part Methodists or Presbyterians, considered her well-meant advice as so many snares of evil. With the Irish, she had at first succeeded better, they imagining her a Catholic; but when they found that she qualified that name with the adjective English, they inwardly reviled her as one that would blow neither hot nor cold. Still, Eliza patiently went her rounds; partly from a sincere wish to help the objects of her attention, but more on account of thinking "district visiting " the correct thing to do. Rebuffs or deaf ears she considered a special kind of martyrdom-as she called it-sent for her benefit; laboring under a vague impression that they con- stituted a sort of penance by which she atoned for dress and ball- going. At the distance of about a mile and a half from the entrance to Mr. Denton's, the trio came to a common board gate set in the middle of a rough stone fence. From this the ground fell away rapidly to the river, until its farther side where the steep hill ran into a broad plain bounded by the railroad track, here built out into the water. On the plain were bricks laid out to dry, and at one side a bank from which the clay was dug. The well-worn, deep-rutted road from the gate to the brick-yard was bordered by tall elms, growing in shape not unlike cock's-combs; the grass beneath them was spare and withered; bits of slate and stones sprinkled the ground; the turned-up earth of a few confusedly mingled narrow trenches, ploughed by the nose of a pig, showed the soil to be poor and lean. Scattered miscellaneously among the trees, like a handful of acorns flung abroad that had taken root and sprouted into abnormal shapes, were some half-dozen shanties. Their unpainted boards were stained and weather-beaten; many were held in position only by two or three rusty nails. All built to but one story in height, about a third were more pretentious than their neighbors in having a small attic on top. The sole relief to the general dingy dirt-tint consisted of white-washed clay covering the brick fire-places that bulged out from side-walls. Around each house was a choice collection of garbage, scraps of old food, and, with droll incongruity, several discarded hoop-skirts and bonnet-frames, They were hardly improved by the dirtywater   A PASSING GLANCE.          71 daily poured over them and left to trickle where it would or sink into the ground, where its perturbed spirit would not rest, but rose in ghost-like forms of quivering fever-and-ague. Some clothes- lines stretching from tree to tree were thickly hung with fluttering garments; for it is a curious fact that the inhabitants of such - dwellings invariably do an immense amount of washing, though never, by any chance; are they seen wearing clean linen. ( One would think it almost incredible," said Allington, " that surrounded by such beautiful scenery, people should be satisfied to live in squalid poverty. - I can understand their being poor; but why they should be dirty also, passes my comprehension." "' They will not be neat," said Miss Wharton. "If by a miracle all these shanties could be transformed into pleasant homes, the ground garnished with turf, or themselves scrubbed as was the old Greek's Ethiopian, in a month all traces of the change would be obliterated and the place look not a whit different from what it now does." "I presume you have often enough told them that cleanliness is next to godliness." "Yes, indeed. But I might talk until I were hoarse for all the good I can do-in that way," with a mental reservation in favor of her theological doctrines. "These laborers are very low. They apparently care for nothing but to earn money with which to become intoxicated as often as possible. When they were on a strike some time ago, the howlings and yellings at night were per- fectly frightful." Eliza spoke bitterly, more bitterly than truthfully; her views being influenced by the rejection of her teachings. "They were beating their wives probably," Allington rejoined carelessly; " it is a way these gentry have. But a set of turbulent, riotous laborers so near at hand must be quite detrimental to the property hereabouts." "Papa says it is. He was .telling us only last night that if ever another strike took place, he should send us to the city imme- diately." "Let us be just," said Lily, speaking for the first time in some minutes. , The greater number of these men are, I think, orderly and industrious, but a few noisy ones bring disrepute upon all." "Quite correct, Miss Vevere. Let us be just with all my heart.   72 oLOSING TO WIN. I have no objection to men rioting and fighting all they wish, pro- vided only that they leave unmolested me and mine." "But is not that very selfish, Mr. Allington?"Lily asked. , Certainly it is," said Paul cheerfully, continuing half in jest and half in earnest: "I My ideal world is one in which people will be actuated solely b1y an enlightened selfishness. The perfect man has been defined as one who Is in entire harmony with his environ- ment. This harmony cannot be attained without a consistent, continuous study of selt; and wakeful thought as to how it shall be adapted to the surroundings. The more considerate and careful we are towards others, the more agreeable will be the reaction of those feelings upon ourselves." A thin line appeared between Lily's eyebrows as she thought over this statement. Had she been less timid she might have reminded the speaker that there was something more to be con- sidered than one's own comfort, but she merely said: "And are these your sentiments?" "To the extent of believing that the better a man adapts him- self to his circumstances, the happier he will be. That is, he must live a perfectly healthy life, commit few or no excesses, be - careful not to do anything which would entail distasteful conse- quences, and make himself as agreeable as possible, so that others may in turn be agreeable to him." He concluded with a laugh. It was a fluent strain, but the false note in it jarred painfully upon Lily's ear. "Is there not something far higher and nobler by which to shape your conduct?" demanded Eliza, rushing in where Lily feared to tread. "Really, Miss Wharton," Allington replied, slightly shrugging his shoulders, " you will excuse me, I trust, if I ask you not to entangle me in a theological discussion. That is one of the topics I persistently avoid." "Are you going to enter any of the houses, Eliza?"Lily inquired, to change the subject. "Yes, indeed," said Eliza, with alacrity; "there is a Mrs. O'Flanagan whom I have strong hopes of being able to wean from the errors of Rome to join the Catholic Church. Will you come in?" she added to Paul. "s Thank you, no. With }your permission I will wait foryou here."   A PASSING GLANCE.          73 Turning to leave him, their attention was attracted by a young man coming up the hill, whose passing glance changed, as it rested upon Lily, to an eager, earnest look, as though, once seen, she could never be forgotten. He bowed to Allington, receiving a nod in response "Who is that?" asked Eliza, as he went onward to the gate. "I forget his name; lhe is a reporter for the Globular."     CHAPTER X. OPI'I;,NING AN OYS'TER, THE name )belongin to the reporter of the Globular which Allington had forgotten was Frederick Bayner. Sent to Steinwell by Mr. Saxton to investigate the rumors of a threatened strike, and learn, if possible, what foundation they might have; at the time[ he saw the two girls he was coming from the brick-yard, where he had vainly sought the desired information. Despite his utmost endeavors, notwithstanding his adroit ques- tioning, learned in that keenest of all schools-a newspaper office- the laborers had preserved an unexpected and unusual reticence. Not a single connversational fish rose to his carefully contrived, (delicately thrown flies; hardly could he obtain even a nibble. With sinulartil', orl ratlher plural unanimity, each workman had expressed Jlimselt' perfecLly willing to give what information was in his power, liut-he had none to give. Yes, he belonged to the Amaloganlated Brickmlakers, as did all his fellow-workmen ; he w/ould obey the orders of the society, but hlad no idea what those orders would -be. I-ad he heard anything about a strike? Well, yes; there had been some talk of one, but he didn't know as it would amount to much. Had the society taken action upon the subject? Well, he thought not. \Vould it take any? That he could no more say thanl: the gentlemlan himself. What did he think of it? He didn't think of it at all. He had enougrh to think of in earning his living. Over two hours passed in this kind of " interviewing " was rather discouraging, considering, the meagre results obtained, and Fred- et-ick commienced to seriously doubt whether he would be able to I)ropDrly fill out his columIn and a half-that being the space allotted to his letter 1)y the managring editor. For the first time in his experience he was at a loss, utterly nonplussed at finding men who, havilng the information he desired, were so very reticent. Persist- inl, nevertheless, in his iilquiries-for, however disagreeable the   OPENING AN OYSTER. 75 task may be, a correspondent can never shirk or even slight his work--he was finally told that if he wanted to discover anything about the Amalgamated Brickmakers, he had better see the secre- tary, who was then at the United States Hotel. This put him on the right track at once, and he was walking in that direction when he met Allington and the two girls. The former he knew only slightly, as a reporter may know an editorial writer, or, to give a more definite idea, as a clerk in some large house may know a special partner. His attention was arrested by the sight of Lily's face. Her pure, sweet beauty, so different from the stereotyped city counte- nance, so thoroughly in harmony with the bright, sparkling atmo- sphere, brought emotions both new and strange. It was as if the sky had suddenly opened before his earthward-bending eyes and shown a glimpse of something higher, far superior to the dull plane on which his life had hitherto been passed. More than by her surpassing loveliness was he impressed by the gentle refinement which encircled her as the nimbus encircled Virgil's goddess, ele- vating her above all thoughts of things terrene. It was a mental apocalypse, an unrolling of the clouds that veiled the mountain- tops, showing their white, glistening heights, and making painfully distinct the distance from the valley where he lived., Sentiments like these, confused and ill-formed as they were, ran rapidly through his mind. Unconscious as yet of the powerful hold her image had taken upon him, not acknowledging even in his inmost thought that the view of Lily might be to him as an appearance of the pole-star to weary sailors, he paced onward, and by his side went her image. He seemed to see her form repeated in the slowly waving trees; to see her soft pure eyes shine forth from heaven's scarcely purer sky; to see the simple, dignified carriage of her head in the blue- bells that reared themselves in neighboring fields ; to hear her low, sweet voice-he would have sworn that she had a low, sweet voice-- repeated ever and again in the twinkling murmur of the gurgling brook as it plashed over mossy stones. He felt more of a mat for having looked upon her. 'V   Pacing still onward, along the bare, blank road, past nodding -?' trees, amid the resonant quick chirp of robin or thrush, faint, airy cas- -:?? ties dimly outlined from,the shimmering haze, began to rise before him ; castles glittering with rainbow hues, gleaming with colors vivid     75         LOSING TO WIN. as those reflected from clouds encircling a sinking summer sun; castles most fair, and most inviting, worthy of her who reigned there, white-enthroned. "( Pshaw!" he exclaimed impatiently, half-aloud, " who am I to dream such dreams? My station is fixed-absolute. I have chosen it myself, and cannot now turn back; would not, if I could. She is charming, but I shall probably never see her again; so what good to further think of her?"And he sang many times to him- self the last line of one of the most beautiful of all ballads: "Hearts are broken, heads are turned wi' castles in the air." The road was long, but all too short for his busy thoughts. It at length brought him to the hotel. Here he found the usual loungers in the bar-room, taking their ease in the most ingeniously contrived positions of discomfort; positions, to a looker-on, assumed only to ascertain what abnormal postures the human frame could sustain without incurring actual dislocation. Going by these experi- mentalists in anatomy, Frederick inquired for Mr. Goggings, the secretary of the Amalgamated Brickmakers, and sent up word requesting to see him. "Goggins?" cried a rasping voice from one of the corners where a withered old man was making himself liable to arrest as a vagrant by endeavoring to suspend his body, like Mahomet's coffin, between heaven and earth, without any visible means of sup- port. "That's the son of ole Goggins, the coot that onct stole ny melons an' then heaved a rock at me when I tried to catch him. He's a bad egg, he is. Sa-ay, young feller," he continued, address- ing himself more particularly to Frederick than to miscellaneous space, " wat do you know about him? Ain't come to arrest him, be yer?" he added suddenly, a vindictive hope pulling the rusty wires of his face as though it were a jumping-jack. No," Frederick answered, smiling at the old man's treasured sense of injury. \Vell, I wish yer was," and the jumping-jack wires relaxed. ' I'd 'a had the law on him long ago, ef I could 'a done it. But just you remember wat I tell you-he's a bad egg, an' don't yer have anything more to do with him than yer can help." "Look here, now, Alvah Stebbins," interrupted a new voice, "if you're not a little more careful 'bout what you say of me, I'll sue you for slander and defamation of character. I'm not going to allow every pig-headed old farmer to abuse me; so I give you   OPENING AN OYSTER.          " fair warning; if you slander me any more you'll have to, pay for it. Now, sir," turning to Frederick, "you wanted to see me, I believe. Step out on the piazza where we can sit down." Mr. Samuel Goggings was one of that class of lawyers whose offices are in rickety buildings in Nassau Street, and whose practice is confined almost exclusively to the Tombs and Marine Court. Admitted to the bar only in consequence of the shamefully lax examination which prevailed for many years, he had for a long time subsisted by the constant activity of his wits and the forbear- ance of his creditors. When the semi-social, semi-political ques- tions of the day first came prominently forward, Mr. Goggings' opportunity came with them. Gifted with a certain low order of cunning, native shrewdness quickly led him to perceive in what manner he could draw profit from these subjects. Fairly educated, he had no difficulty in acquiring the smattering of knowledge requisite for his purposes; he was soon able to talk as fluently as the most gifted philosopher of all the new lights. Instantly join- ing the ranks of the reformers, he speedily became one of the lead- ing agitators; and, like most professional reformers who can ob- tain the ear of the public, derived quite a respectable living from the promulgation of his doctrines. Hand and glove with reformers of all kinds, he managed to preach the theories of each different faction without drawing upon himself the vituperation of the others. He was a fervent believer in the Commune; in favor of the aboli- tion of marriage laws, of the issue by Government of an unlimited quantity of paper money which should be loaned to each applicant on the security of his word, of the latest demand of labor--a six- hour law-and an upholder of the theory that employers have no rights which the employed are bound to respect. Very earnest were his denunciations of " capital," and equally strenuous his advocacy of the cause of the working-man-by which he meant the day-laborer. He was an ardent protectionist; he trusted so thoroughly in the dignity and importance of American labor that he would have it confined exclusively to the Irish and Germans, inveighing bitterly against the Chinese. Strikes he relied on as a primal article of the true faith, though he denounced any combi- nation of masters as a villanous exercise of tyrannical power. In person he was short and spare, his suit of rusty black very much worn and shiny at the joints, with that peculiarly disagreeable gloss common to second-rate broadcloth. His closely shaven face showed a long, thin nose, dragging itself down the middle     78         LOSING TO WIN. from small, close-set, twinkling eyes, to a wide mouth, thin lipped as if cut with a knife. His ears were large and heavily lobed; the back of his head was small, but the deficiency was amply atoned for by the larger development at its base. His chin was sharply pointed, and had a trick of occasionally thrusting itself forward to emphasize a remark, or denote approval at the successful rounding of a sentence. "Well, sir?" he said, interrogatively, to Frederick. "I have come up, as special correspondent of the Globular, in ider to discover what truth there may be in the rumors of a strike Dthe brickmakers. You are probably the one best fitted to give me whatever information there is no objection to my making public." "That depends very much upon circumstances, Mr.-" he paused. "IBayner." "a Mr. Bayner, as to whether I would tell you anything. You see, we laborers "-Frederick involuntarily glanced at Mr. Gog- gings' hands; they were delicate and small-" must protect our- selves the best way we can,. and give capital no more advantages than we can help. If employers know our plans in advance, of course they will prepare to resist them and make combinations to cope with us." "But if your demands be just, by making them public you will enlist general sympathy on your side, and when you are prepared to act the masters will be more than half disposed to yield." "Very fine, indeed," said Mr. Goggings superciliously, press- ing up the corners of his mouth so as to make it resemble a tightly drawn bowx. "Very fine, indeed; but suppose, just as a mere pos- sibility you know, that the general public should not possess suf- ficient discrimination to side with us; that it should think our de- mands exorbitant, perhaps unreasonable." "Then I should judge that it was right, for in cases of that kind disinterested bystanders are apt to decide more impartially than either of the contestants." "Sir, the bystanders would not, could not be impartial; they would side with capital, as they invariably do. If we had listened to your bystanders, where would now be the many concessions which we have wrested from employers one by one? Where would be our ten hours' pay for eight hours' labor; our right to dictate to   OPENING AN OYSTER.          79 the bosses whether there shall be any apprentices, and, if so, how many; our right to quit work in a body if but a single non-society man be employed; our right, in short, to impose whatever terms we please and have them obeyed? No; I tell you plainly, that if we want any privileges from capital, our only way to obtain them is to take them, and take them we will whenever it suits us. If the bosses don't like it, they needn't. We are a power in the land; we know our strength, and, having found out what we can accom- plish when united and pulling together, we are determined that the laborer shall lift up his head, and not only feel himself but be the superior of all others. Employers cannot help themselves; they are under our thumbs, and shall dance to our music before long.  "Ha, ha!" thought Frederick; " there shows the cloven foot. He has forgotten his caution, and is too much interested to be afraid of what I may report." Mr. Goggings continued, his pointed chin darting back and forth like the piston-rod of an engine, to punctuate his words. "I tell you, sir, that the glorious day is soon coming when capitalists shall be put in their proper place-where they belong- below the working-men; when the government shall be of and for laborers; when every man shall be provided with work by the public; when railroads, telegraphs and banks shall be managed in the interests of the whole nation, and not in that of a few bloated monopolists; when the use of gold and silver shall be abolished, and their functions fulfilled by an issue of paper money based on the credit of the nation; when we shall invite labor from all parts of the world with open hands, and the Mongolian be forever pro- hibited from approaching our shores, and when all non-producers shall be wiped out." As he concluded this extemporaneous speech, he drew forth a yellow bandanna handkerchief and rubbed his forehead vigorously as though he were one of the non-producers whom he wished wiped out. "Well," said Frederick, not caring much for Mr. Goggings' poli- tico-economical views, which, indeed, he almost knew by heart, having heard them so often at various meetings for reforming everybody and everything; , let us come from the abstract to the concrete. How about this strike?"     80         LOSING TO WIN. Mr. Goggings looked at him keenly for a moment, before an- swering. Mr. Campion is connected with your paper, is he not?" "Yes ; he is the city editor." ' I have met him several times at the Inquisitive Club. He is a clever man, but rather too doubting, I am afraid, to be of much service to us. However, I believe that he thinks substantially as we do, so I'll try to oblige him by telling you what I can. You know that I am secretary of the Amalgamated Brickmakers?" "Because I knew that, I was anxious to see you. How many members have you?" "The branch here numbers nearly one hundred and fifty. men- all there are." "NWould they strike or not according to your directions?" "Yes, sir-r," replied Mr. Goggings proudly, inflating his chest. "I am hapipy to say that they possess such unlimited confidence in me, that were I to send them the word they would knock off work this instant, and not resume it again until I told-advised them to do so." "I see," said Frederick, smiling at his slip of the tongue. "Would all the other branches obey-follow your recommenda- tions as implicitly?" "Yes." "( Not only as regards striking, but as concerns more or fewer hours of work, increase or decrease of wages, and so forth?" "Yes." "It seemns to me then that you can control the brick market entirely." Mr. Goggings shot at him a sharp look, as if to judge what thought might be concealed behind the remark. Apparently sat- isfied with the result, he said: "So I can, and strive to do so for the best interests of the laborers." "Returning then to our original subject: In your opinion would the best interests of the working-men be promoted by a strike? Is the state of the market such that they would be bene- fited were they to cease work?" "That I have not the means of judging just at present. If the supply of brick be small and the demand great, the opportunity is a good one; if not, not."   OPENING AN OYSTER.           I Again and again Frederick returned to the charge, but however ingenious his leading questions, however skilfully he strove to draw from Mr. Goggings some hint of what was to be done, he could obtain, nothing more definite than what had already -been said. Their talk occupied the larer part of an hour, and but little came of it. Finding that it was utterly impossible to obtain the faintest nibble in response to his adroit angling, Frederick bade Mr. Goggings good-day, and went to his room to write what he could of his letter before leaving for the city. ' "There's no help for it," he muttered, spreading out the paper and writing ["From our Special Correspondent "] about the middle of the first page. "I must do the most I can to spin out what the brickmakers said. I can make something out of their poverty and destitution. Hang the fellow! he's as close as an oyster, and not half so good. I'd like to pepper him." 4  i , n * i      CHAPTER XI. MAKING A "CORNER." SLOWLY walking about over the spare, withered grass, Paul Allington had smoked one cigar and got another well under ,way when he noticed AMiss Wharton and Miss Vevere emerging from the shanty which they had left him to enter. "Oh, dearl-!"Eliza sighed, as he joined them and their steps were turned homeward; "it is melancholy how intractable these people are. I have reasoned and argued with that woman until I am fairly tired out, and yet for all the impression produced I might as well have talked to a stone wall." "Perhaps she iwas unable to comprehend the force of your argu- ments," said Allington, inclined to smile as he thought of what character those arguments probably were. "It Imaly be so," she replied, " but it is dreadfully discouraging. They will not listen to my proofs of the vast superiority of the Anglican Church. Try I never so hard, I cannot impress them with a sense of how deeply they are in error; they cling to their convictions the more strongly, apparently, as they are proportion- ally wrong. It is curious how people can be so bigoted." "But they at least listen to you?" "' Not always. Only just now, while I was proving to Mrs. O'Flanagan that the real apostolic succession has always remained in the Church of England, and with the Church only, she kept on washingr. All that I could obtain fromn her was that she would ask her priest about it, and hear what he had to say. I am unable to understand how they can allow themselves to be so priest-ridden; but then, as Father Benly says, we must struggle on under our bur- dens patiently." You often consult him, I presume?" asked Allington, slyly. "Upon every subject," Eliza enthusiastically answered, not seeing the animus of the question, while Paul had the satisfaction   MAKING A "CORNER."           83 of noticing by the dimples at the corners of Lily's mouth that she appreciated Eliza's unconscious comment upon her preceding words. "He is so kind that he advises me continually; he is always ready to guide my feet in the right way." Eliza's warmth was in great danger of making her ridiculous, so Lily with her usual good nature came to the rescue. "You must not suppose, Mr. Allington, that our talk with these people is confined exclusively to theological or even religious topics. Unfortunately there are only too many other matters upon which they need advice, that are equally important." "No, no, Lily," cried Eliza, interrupting, " nothing is so impor- tant as their moral welfare. And that reminds me: it is hardly fair for you, when I am trying to make an impression, to be talking to the children and telling them fairy stories so as to distract their, attention. You were doing that at Mrs. O'Flanagan's, and you gave them some money, too-don't deny it, for I saw you." "I have no intention of denying it, Eliza," said Lily quietly, but with too brilliant patches of rosy color upon her face near the cheek bones. "You are perfectly right to attempt alleviating the misfor- tunes of the poor in your own way, and I am equally right in giving what relief I can after my fashion." Eliza's eyes snapped, and she was on the point of showing that even modern martyrs are not totally devoid of fire, when Allington, with ready tact, interposed himself as a lightning-rod to avert the approaching storm. "That question of giving money to the poor, Miss Vevere, is one which, for all the discussion upon it, has never been satisfac- torily settled in either the affirmative or negative. You probably have heard the stock arguments upon both sides, but- " So he continued for some minutes, until Eliza's ebullition had subsided and' she became so far pacified as to invite him to lunch an invitation which he readily accepted. The time passed at Stemwell, brief as it was, had yet sufficed to establish Allington upon those terms of intimacy with Mr. Wharton's family which are so easily gained in the country, amidst the freedom of little re- strained association. The ordinary social regulations are relaxed as though the rules of a race-course, reserved for thorough-breds, were so far abrogated that horses entered could either run, trot, or canter. Not handicapped by city rules as to the propriety of fre- quent calls, Allington visited Mr. Wharton's almost every day, and     84         LOSING TO WIN. consequently flattered himself that he was making very good running. Reachingr the house, they sat upon the piazza, Paul taking a cane-bottomed easy chair, which by his frequent use of it had come to be associated with him. Here they were joined by Miss Harriet, ewho made her appearance looking slightly frowsy, not- withstandinb the fact that a critical eye would have been puzzled to decide wherein lay the deficiency of her toilet. She was one of those who by some inscrutable means invariably seem as though they had omitted to give the last few finishing touches to their dress and hair. Nothing about them betrays any lack of attention or any special disregard of the exigencies of a neat toilet, but the imnperceptible something is lacking; that curious something which is assumed as a matter of course in a highly-bred handsome woman, and yet which is noticeable only by its absence. It cannot be defined: it is so thin, impalpable, but is felt before consecutive reasoningc puts one's thoughts into form. The strongly marked contrast between her light hair and dark eyes, joined to the calmly perfect regularity of her features, made her a remarkably pretty girl, whom only the loveliness of her cousin could throw into the IlIhadc. The conversation shifted about like a desultory weathercock until, as with most people who are not labial experts, it veered to the most interesting topic-themselves. "I understand, Mr. Allington," said Eliza, "that it is your intention to settle down here with Mr. Denton." "Yes ; the poor old gentleman is fearfully bored at living alone, and lias brought forwnvard such arguments, has shown me so plainly what a lonely life is his, that I have not the heart to leave him. Ever since the death of his son he had been existing on one-sided, morbid recollections; the diet has disagreed with him horribly. Indeel, lihe told me that he was afraid of going melancholy mad should his loneliness be much longer continued." "I never heard that he had lost a son," said Lily. ("It happened nearly two years ago, be-fore Mr. Wharton came here. But do not refer to it in myyuncle's presence, for it is a very sad story. There was a dispute between them, which ended in the young fellow's leaving the house, declaring that he would never enter it again. And he never did, for by some accident he fell into the river and was drowned, his body being picked up a week after-   ;.^:t X        MAKING A A CORNER."          85 wards off Yonkers. Mr. Denton has suffered ever since from the $ Ho  recollection that he parted with his only child in the anger and excitement of an altercation." "Dreadful," said Lily under her breath, adding aloud, " it-was very kind of you to give up the interesting life of New York to bury yourself in the country and rouse him from such a state of mind." A softer, sweeter light shone from her eyes as she turned them upon Paul, than had ever before rested in them when looking in his direction. There was silence for a space; then Paul spoke, drawing a long breath as though to dissipate the faint sombre cloud which his words had brought. "Yes, I expect to live here like a jovial hermit in a sybaritic cave. My summer and fall will no doubt be most charmingly passed, provided you remain in the country," bowing to the girls; "but I must confess that I look askance at the prospect of a dull, cheerless winter." "You will go to the city occasionally?"Harriet asked. "Occasionally is the word, for I shall leave my uncle only sel- dom. When I enter into an engagement I invariably keep it to the utmost extent of my ability. Two days and the intervening night will probably be the limit of whatever liberty I may give myself." "You can visit the poor, and comfort them in their sorrow and affliction," said Eliza didactically. : "Mrs. O'Flanagan, for instance," Allington muttered. "Don't be so absurd, Eliza," exclaimed Harriet. "You cannot imagine Mr. Allington would find any amusement in that." Eliza colored, and thought within. herself that she was perse- cuted by those who were still of the world, worldly. "Or, Lily ventured shyly, "as Mr. Allington is an author, he might write a book." "Yes," chimed in Harriet, "do so, Mr. Allington. Write a book that shall expose some of our innumerable social shams, and teach men to give women larger liberty of action." "But, Miss Harriet, suppose I think that they already enjoy as much liberty as is compatible with their nature? ' "You surely cannot be so narrow-minded?-" "Excuse me, if I say that I cannot perceive how that term' applies to one who believes that each sex has its well-defined     86          LOSING TO WIN. limits, and that the circumferences of the two are as wide as required." "Do you think that women ought not to vote?" "Most decidedly. I am unable to see a single real argument in favor of giving them that privilege-for a privilege it assuredly is, conferred t)by society for its own purposes, and not an inherent rilght as nmany consider it." "I am afraid you are in for an argument, Mr. Allington," said ElizaL. "Harriet is a firm believer in women's rights." "Then, I venture to say, it can be only because she is little acquiaintcd with the doctrines of those styling themselves advanced thinkers." "But," resumed Harriet, (" the moderate ones utterly repudiate those who are-I will admit it-destitute of principle, refusing to lamvtex ali'thingJr to do with them." ti And are themselves repudiated by the others as being timidly colistcrvative, aned, to quote from a recent manifesto,' afraid to follow -whithler their doctrines logically lead.' You may say that such speakers are no exponents of the sentiments entertained by the greater number of thoughtful women; but who is to decide between the jarring leaders? Who invariably attract the largest audiences; whose speeches are greeted with the most applause; whose papers succeed while others die of inanition? There is but one answer to these questions. The most successful agitators are those who go farthest in demanding the abolition of all the laws and customs whch experience has taught us are necessary to guard against social disor(anization." "That may be true, but nevertheless, I think that we require more freelomn. \We are crowded out from trades and refused op- tportunities of earning a living, save by sewing-the worst paid of all occu)pations." "Because the most overcrowded. You must pardon me, Miss Harriet, if I presume to flatly contradict your assertion that women are not allowed a fair chance to secure a livelihood. Provided they can do the work, there is never the slightest difficulty in their ob- taininig all they can accomplish. You may not be aware that the government employs over three thousand women in clerical duty, and several hundred in various post-offices. Throughout the coun- try there are thousands engaged as clerks, telegraph operators, and in light departments of mechanical wolrk, to say nothing of that   MAKING A   CORNER.;"        7 very large class occupied as writers and artists. If women want work and are competent to perform it, sex is hardly consid- ered." "And do they not work as well as men?" asked Harriet, triumphantly. "Some few do, but a few only. Most are impatient of steady, continuous application, of surmounting details one by one; they are apt to hurry over their work and to querulously resent correc- tion. Besides this, they are unable, in legal phrase, to suspend judgment, but must have at once a conclusion of some kind, even though it be mixed with error." "What a bad character you give us!" said Eliza lightly. "I am speaking only, Miss Wharton, of workwomen, and of them as I have found them. One of the city newspapers, several years ago, anxious to give those eager for work a fair trial, em- ployed a number of women as type-setters. In the first place, it was requisite that they should have a room to themselves. Then, they could be trusted with nothing but advertisements." "Why so?"Harriet inquired. "Partly because it was out of the question for them to remain at the office after dark, when copy is' prepared, and partly because the correction of their errors would have involved the loss of much valuable time. By printers' rules, every compositor, while paid for correcting mistakes made by following the manuscript, is obliged to rectify his own -mistakes -for nothing. , Now, about this the women compositors were always complaining; it was almost im- possible for them to perceive the justice of it, and though of course obliged to submit, they did so, with much complaining, and invari- ably made a show of futile resistance whenever occasion offered." "What was the result?" "The result was that their careless work, continual complaints caused so much trouble and annoyance that, after a trial of over a year, the experiment was abandoned as an impracticable scheme, and the women discharged. The attempt was made earn- estly and sincerely; they were given every opportunity and allowed more latitude than would be shown a man under any circum- stances; but, as I said, it was a failure. I followed closely the oper- ation of the plan, for I was concerned in noting whether it would succeed, though I was hardly, surprised at its ending. To work like a man, a woman must possess a man's qualities; she cannot     88         LOSING TO WIN. achieve manly work while retaining the weaknesses and privileges of her sex." "You should make allowance for previous training."   " . "Work can make no allowance; what is to be done will be given to those who can do it quickest, best and most thoroughly. If owomen can come up to these conditions they will obtain work; otherwise they will not." "Did you not say, Mr. Allington," asked Lily, "that if a woman is really desirous of procuring employment she meets with no opposition?" "More than that; every encouragement is given her-But here is an end to the discussion, for I see a carriage coming up the road. The three girls looked at the approaching landau, and Harriet exclainmed : "Why, its the Yearner and Mr. Graynan." "The Yearner?" queried Allington. "Who is she?" "You shall be introduced," said Harriet, " and will then dis- cover for yourself quicker than I can tell." Th}e carriage coming nearer, Allington saw that the enigmatic- ally mentioned person was a middle-aged woman, so very large and so very fat that the little man alongside her was squeezed into one corner, to look not unlike a fig taken from its box and placed on end. His features were sharp and worn; his face corrugated with numerous intersecting deep lines, and his eyes shone with a gleam wHhich might have been reflected from the countless green- backs of which he was the reputed possessor. The little man was Mr. IIomer Graynan, the great railroad owner, banker and speculator; one of the most skilful operators in Wall Street as well as one of the most expert in concocting " corners" and adroitly conducting what the newspapers term "( railroad wars." Jumping from the landau before the horses had well stopped, he assisted his better three-quarters to ponderously alight. Merely noddingl to the young ladies. he inquired where Mr. Wharton was to be found, and hearing that he was probably in the grapery, walked down the path with a quick springy step. Mrs. Graynan slowly ascended to the low piazza, and let her huge nmass of quivering flesh drop into a large chair-fortunately strong, although it creaked dismally under the burden-with that peculiar grunting sigh of satisfaction common to fat people when they deposit themnselves; letting everything go at once with a run, t u r rr  ul   -MAKING A "CORNER."         89 as it were. She smiled affably, ejaculated "Good morning, my dears," in a thick oily voice, and commenced slowly and with diffi- culty removing a pair of purple gloves from her pudgy diamond- ringed hands. To her was Allington presented upon the conclusion of this performance, to be received with a gracious bow and greasy smile. "Do you not find it very stupid here, Mr. Allington?" she inquired, as a cheerful way of opening the conversation. Lily shot a mirthful glance at him, smiling before he replied: "How can you ask that question, Mrs. Graynan, when you find me in such company?" "True, true," fanning herself with a yellow bonnet-string; "but, here in America, you know, I find the country so sadly triste "-another glance of laughing eyes-" that I really quite yearn for the vie Parisianl. I do indeed, I assure you; quite yearn for it." "I should judge that if one be accustomed to 'roses and rap- tures ' of foreign life, the transition to the ' lilies and languors ' of existence here must seem rather tame." "Oh, very much so; particularly for me with my passion for amusement. It was so nice in London, going to St. Albans every day to hear the elegant music and see the beautiful flowers. And then that charming reared-rere-what is it called, my dear; you know all about those things?" turning to Eliza. "I presume you mean the reredos," she said, as indignantly as civility permitted. "Yes-that's it, the reredos. Thanks. I know it gives you pleasure to talk about churches. And then the dear little curates with their hair all parted down the middle and so lovely and smooth. They are just like angels going around in their white -St surplices, so nicely starched, and with such white hands too. One of them used to dine with us very often; he was so good that I quite pitied the poor girls, to think he could never marry. It was really distressing to hear him talk of how they were persecuted by their cruel bishop, who wouldn't let them walk barefooted in the streets-he always wore the most lovely boots- " Her current of reminiscences was broken by Eliza's vanishing into the house under pretext of seeing about luncheon, and it became diverted into a new channel.. "I really yearn to be away from this country again," she con-     90         LOSING .TO WIN. tinued to Allington, who was delighted to have met her, "It is unpleasant that the people should be such can-ale- " "I beg your pardon-such what?" "Can-ale. They don't bow and smile and look so pleased when you speak to them as the lovely peasantry do abroad, you know. Oh, I quite yearn to go there again; but Mr. Graynan, he tlhinks of nothing but business, business all the time. My gracious, I wouldn't care whether there was any business or not, so long as w\e had plenty of money." NWhile this fluent monologue was proceeding to the intense alnusement of the auditors, Mr. Graynan was absorbed in talk %witlh M1r. W\ llrton, walkinig back and forth in the garden. I tull! vou, W\harton," he was saying, gesticulating with a slhort, nervCous mov'ncient of the right arm-"I tell you it's no uItc expcting anythilnrg more fromn that silver-mine. It's bustedl; klnocked higher 'n a kite; bottom dropped clean out." These contradictory statements seemed to sufficiently reconcile thelnselves to carry a deep conviction to Mr. Wharton's mind. His placid features shaded to a look of anguish, and his voice lowered as he spoke slowly: "Are you sure of what you are saying? Quite sure? You ' know how much money I inrvested in that concern. Why, my God!" he cried suddenly, stopping short and the shadows deepen- ed into a gloonm of weary despair. 1" my liability amounts to more than half of all that I am worth." He gazed at Graynan as though partially stupefied. "Don't let that trouDle you," said his friend, coolly. "One niglt, aleld not so very long ago either, I was cleaned out of all but about thirty thousand I ; \ell, I went home feeling pretty bad, I tell you. When I came down town next morning I had a point on Erie, so i just took my luck in my hand and went in for all that I had. That's the day it jumped up fromn forty to a hundred and seven- teen. So you see what being posted will do for a man. Now, stocks are very good, but the best thing for you is a quiet, steady investment, somnetlingo that's sure, and that won't bother you too much with looking after it. I've got a neat little affair on hand, that you can have a share of, if you want to go in." "What is it? Of course I Twish to retrieve what I have lost," said Mr. Wharton, cheering up. I Exactly," said the eminent speculator, dwelling on and empha- lb     LIMAKING A "CORNER."         91 sizing the first syllable of his assenting word. "The thing's just this: did you know that the brick-yard here is for sale?" :"No." "Well, it is, and I want you to take three-quarters of it, while I'll be good for the rest. The property now brings in twelve per cent., but we can arrange matters so as to get twenty per cent. on the price." Mr. Wharton's eye brightened; he rubbed his hands together complacently. "I should be very well satisfied with that. But how will you manage it?" "just leave that to me; it will be all right," responded M1r. Graynan, with a knowing wink. "I should like to see my way clear before making the invest- ment," Mr. Wharton persisted. "My idea, then, is this. There has been some talk of a strike, and that's what makes the present owners anxious to get the property off their hands. When we own the yard, the strike will happen in the fall." "How do you know "  "That's my business. At the same time there will be a gen- eral strike all along the river, stopping production and sending up the price of brick. We will look out to have a large stock on hand ready for the market, and that is how I mean to give you twenty per cent. for your money." "Can you engineer the strike?" "I know  the man who runs the machine. The strike will take place just when we are ready for it, and not a moment be- fore." Mr. Wharton stopped in his walk and pondered, looking upon the ground. Not yet permeated enough with the Wall Street idea of "cleverness" in an operation to be wholly unmindful of the destitution a strike would cause amongst the unfortunate puppets who were to dance for his profit, or to be able to shake from him- self all feeling of moral responsibility; he could not at once accept the proposition, But Mr. Graynan gave him short time in which to hesitate. "Come," he said, impatiently; "which is it? Yes, or no." "I don't like the strike," said Mr. Wharton, thoughtfully. "Pooh, pooh, man; that's nothing. I get up one regularly     92         IOSING TO WIN. every two years down at my coal-mines in Pennsylvania. It don't hurt the men--much," he added after a moment's pause. Mr. Wharton thought a while longer, then recollecting the need, the absolute, imperative need there was for him to make up his recent loss, gave voice to an unwilling "Yes." "' Right you are," said Mr. Graynan. "In a day or two we'll go over the yard, examine the title-deeds and that sort of thing, and settle about the payment. At least one-third can remain on bond and Inortgage." Discussing the money details of their contemplated purchase, they were met by a servant bringing intelligence that the ladies were awaiting their presence at luncheon, and so the promenade came to an abrupt conclusion.    CHAPTER XI, THE HARVEST HOME, THAT evening was to take place a Harvest Festival, gotten up under the joint auspices of Eliza's adviser and friend, Father"Benly, Mrs. Graynan, and two or three ladies of the neighborhood. Admiring intensely all English customs, particu- larly those which were most indigenous to that country and would therefore least bear transplanting to our soil, they had determined to make the Festival, as near as might be, a perfect reproduction of those scenes obtaining where there is a large tenantry presided over by manorial proprietors. Services were to be held in the Episcopal church, after which a tea was to be given the village chil- dren, and the performances were to conclude with a dance in a large barn, whose use had been obtained for the occasion. In the afternoon, Mr. Wharton invited Ailington to accompany them, and leaving the house about five, they were soon at the church. This was a handsome stone edifice, built in the cruci- form style, with the altar towards the east and the font at the door, faintly illumined by large stained-glass windows. The seats were of oak with straight backs, uncushioned ; the floor of tessellated stone, and the organ hid in a crypt to the right of the reading desk-all in the most severely orthodox manner. Everything was correct with the exception of a raw newness, which even the Vir- ginia creeper running over the smooth Outside could not entirely conceal. This same outside of the church had, at the time of its building, been the cause of quite a violent dispute-conducted on both sides, with the acrimony known only to church squabbles-- on account of the stone being dressed instead of being left in its natural condition. The proceeding, entailing a large expense, had aroused the ire of many parishioners, and although Mr. Benly did his best to keep peace between the opposing parties, the feud still smouldered to such an extent that upon every question, how-     "        LOSING TO WIN. ever trivial, there were invariaDly two sides, which fought and dis- cussed the subject as if it were a matter of life and death. The plot of ground surroundcling the church thinly covered its naked- ness with a ra-gged mantle of spare grass; no trees had been set ,out exceDt a few tender saplings, guarded by circular boxes, whose b)ranches might perhaps afford shade to the gYreat-grandchildren c*f the sa-.gacious planters. Like every American church, the build- inZ1 was almost overwhelmed by debt; to the piteous committee appealls foir the redemption of which the parishioners remained dI'aflv o du)(cltrate. B;ut notwithstanding the harsh crudity of its exterior, the inside of the church presented to the large number of visitors a very heautiful sight. The windows, door and chancel arch were fes- toonled \with long' drooping wreaths of wheat, rye, oats and barley, caught up and diversitied with strings of evergreen and smilax. A\bore the chancel were glinting green leaves so arranged as to fornm the words, " lte visited the earth and blessed it." Over the altar Nwindow were similar leaves, reading "i The earth is the Lord's." The deep sills of the recessed windows were filled with ferns, mosses and wild flowers; resting on themn and in every other spot whelre they could be placed were grapes, pears, peaches and applles. The font was drap)ed with evergreens; standing in tlhe centre was a cross of white flowers. Quantities of green wreathl s \v're lhung' upon the walls.- Colored clotlhs decorated the ptIlpit alnd lecturn, and from thlem were suspended baskets of Ifruit. FIloNwe's intermingled with ears of corn and wheat were stre\wn upon the chancel steps and upon the stalls. Baskets of flowers and fr-uit were inside the chancel rail. The centre of the altar was occupied by a large gilt cross surmounted by a floral crown ; on each side was a golden vase and flowers. The soft, mild rays of the sinking sun, streamling through the gorgeous dyes of the stained glass and lighting up the numberless tones of green in a thousand colors of gleaming blazonry, uniting with thie faint flicker of the few wax candles on the pulpit and lec- turn, made a very dream of color which affected Lily keenly. It was so full of deep, rich delight that insensibly tears came into her eyes froIm excess of emotion, so stirred was she by the multiplicate mningling of sights, odors and sounds-for now the deep diapason of the organ b)egan to rumllDle in a singularly weird and effective Illancr. WIheret she sat \as in the shadow; before her fluttered   : ::;:          THE HARVEST HOME.           95 the wavering light of the candles; on every side was the intense glow of deep green relieved by the shimmer of lighter-colored fruit; overhead poured blazing glories from the western window in a broad band of vivid yet sombre tints. Leaning back, Lily aban- doned herself to her impressions, indulging without restraint in that vague, shadowy dreaming which has neither thought nor shape, common to all highly imaginative temperaments. She looked at the dim, drifting. sensations as one looks at the ocean whllen covered with a mist, losing oneself in the greyish tossing mass that bears within it all possibilities of sunset's glow or morn- inlg's brightness, that inspires feelings as imponderable but cling- ing, as ethereal yet real as its own enwrapping and rarefied dif- fuseness, Far different was it with Allington. To him the scene was as a cleverly contrived theatrical presentation. For so many years he had been engaged in training his intellect to consider all from the stand-point of a cold, calm intelligence, that by this time the word sentiment conveyed to him no other impression than-that of a Ineaningless abracadabra. Instead of interrogating the tetragram, he looked at it carelessly as a symbol utterly empty. Excluding from consideration all which could not be squared and measured by the rules of logic, he had come to such a pass -that, while acknowledging in others the existence of emotions to which lie was a stranger, he could in no wise sympathize with them. He could grow no flowers in his mental garden; nothing could exist there merely for the sake of beauty, but must be destined to some recognized, definite use. He was a Positivist, leaving out the wor- ship of humanity. Gleaming sights, delicate, voluptuous perfumes, the propinquity of beautiful women, the sound of music, either poet- ically soft, deliriously gay or inspiritingly martial-all these affected profoundly the sensuous part of him which he -had assiduously cultivated; but beyond that, nothing. The dashing of waves upon a shore, the glimmer of the moon rising from a bank of clouds upon the purple surface of a lake, the tones of music heard by night through dusky shades, instead of suggesting to him unspeak- able longings, mystic and inexplicable leanings of the spirit, brought no emotions which he could not readily analyze and account for on scientific principles. He could tell to a nicety just how he was moved; the cause and the action of vaso-motor nerves. , Nor would he have been different. It was a pleasure, from which even     96 5LOSING TO WIN. more philosophic minds than his are not wholly exempt, to feel him- self superior to those who were so stirred by what were merely various phases of nature uniting in a certain sequence, or mental states brought about by diet and surroundings. It was with no emotional mind that he gazed upon Lily during the service as she rose or sat or knelt, her face suffused with a ten- der, rosy flush, her head slightly thrown back, her nostrils expand- ing and contracting, and her eyes shining with the reflected light of her formless musings. Her beauty thrilled him; her character, her sweet purity of maidenly freshness, as clear and unstained as a shaded spring, he could but salute with bowed head. Past the time of youth's violent and suddenly conceived passions, priding himself upon being thoroughly emancipated from the yoke of feel- ingr, Alling-ton was deliberately becoming in love with Lily. He knew well whither he would be led by the indulgence of such tloughts as he had lately frequently thought, what would be the consequence of seeing her often, to what condition of mind he would finally come, but was perfectly willing to drift with the tide. There seenled no reason why he should not; his future assured, he could indulge long-cherished ambition by leisurely doing work which would bring at least celebrity. In every respect he was entirely eligible--he smiled as the hack society word passed through his brain, thinking how little Lily was likely to be influ- enced b! any such consideration. There was no reason why he could not win her; he was not old, was certainly good-looking-it r-equirled the exercise of small vanity to say that-was cultivated and wNell horn. No; there was no reason why he should not win her. Thse prolonged services came to an end. Eliza had enjoyed them extremely, passing her time between complacent self-reflec- tion and admiration of the taste displayed by Father Benly. This pleasing state of mind had been occasionally interrupted by the sight of Mrs. Graynan, who offered to Eliza's agonized eye a fine view of purple gloves and yellow bonnet. The latter vibrated with a regular oscillatory motion as though it were the pendulum of a clock swinging in time to the rhythmic beats of her sleep. It would rise and fall in painful sequence until a sudden jerk would threaten dislocation of the neck. Mrs. Graynan would then arouse herself with a start and a shake of her mighty shoulders, looking about with a wronged, indignant air, apparently suspecting that lb   THE HARVEST HOME.          97 some one had been laughing at her expense, and wishing to deny that she had given any just provocation. Then, her head would again slowly droop forward, and, made drowsy by the heat, resume the nodding motion. But, notwithstanding this distraction. Eliza did not fail to perform her genuflections in such a marked manner that no one in t, church could fail to notice how rigid she was in the observance ,ofwhat she was pleased to dignify as most solemn duties. The stilted but sensible sermon had been preached, the last anthem nasally chanted, the last hymn sung with falsetto shrill- ness by the females and low-toned grumbling indistinctness by the males-after the manner of most country choirs-and the congre- gation being dismissed, Mr. Wharton's party lingered for the clergyman. They were soon joined by Mr. Benly. Dressed in the extreme -of clerical fashion, the tight-fitting vest, buttoned closely to his throat where it showed only a plain linen band, and the long-skirted coat with its narrow collar, combined to make him appear even more thin than he really was, and any pair of scales could have told that that was thin enough. His lank, sal- low face with high cheek-bones, rendered higher by the falling in of the cheeks, caused by frequent fasting, his bulging weak eyes, his narrow colorless lips, and retreating indecisive chin united to show him one of those clergymen whose most enthusiastic sup- porters and obsequious followers are found amongst young girls. Older people endure them with a good-humored tolerance orlaugh at them satirically. Younger people, with but little to think of, become their devoted admirers, obeying implicitly their guidance in all ecclesiastical vagaries. There is a certain period in the life of all persons when the littleness of earth strikes them with most impressive force; when they realize--as never before or after-how small a thing is our world, and how infinitely smaller is any indi- vidual part; when they feel the necessity of accepting some stand- ard of cdnduct which shall rule their daily life. Happy are those who settle calmly into some broad catholic faith wherein they can indulge the utmost charity and eschew all malice; not so happy those who fly into extravagance only to rebound into a narrower belief, when the current of their life is diverted into new channels and flows through different scenes. r. Benly walked by Eliza's side as one accustomed to take that position by prescriptive right, and the group moved towards I                     m v t  a5     98          LOSING TO WIN. a grove where the children's feast was to occur. Lily had recov- ered firom the influence of the church, and was now laughing and chatting gayly with Allington. He exerted himself to please her as he had dlone from the first moment of their acquaintance; en- deavoring to harmonize with her moods, or, at least, to say nothing lhwich should jar upon them. In this he was moderately success- ful ; o11, 1( and thhen something would unconsciously slip from him at a which slhe would shrink as a sensitive plant shrinks at the touch of a feather, but the momentary impression thus produced was gone as soon as perceived. She had come to like him very much.. H is power of simulating interest in subjects which she affected was too clever for her inexperienced eyes to see the cracks in the \lilelning;l and as he was always on the alert to be careful of his words, disagreeing from her only enough to give their conversation the necessary xvitality, her liking for him strengthened day by day. Constant companionship had much to do with this: it is impossible for two persons-especially when of opposite sexes-to be much together without growing, in a manner, used to each other, and, when separated, experiencing a sense of loss which is easily mistaken for another feeling. Lily admired Allington for giving up his life to his uncle, since, of course, she knew nothing of his pecuniary reasons. \Vhenever he referred to the subject, which lhis tact perrnitted him to do very seldom, he depicted himself as onte who had sacrificed a pleasant existence to an old man's cap- tious wh}ims. Three long, slightly-built wooden tables, set out amidst trees, were destined for the enjoyment of the children ; berries, ice-cream, and that peculiarly abominable mixture, rural sponge-cake, consti- tuting the ldetails of this enjoyment. But children are gifted with the stomachs of ostriches, and, by the way in which the sponge- cake disappeared, would seem to be also gifted with the marvellous digestive apparatus of that animal, fabled to accommodate any- thing from sawdust to ten-penny nails. They all ate voraciously, and the village doctor looked on approvingly, smiling blandly for relasons best known to himself. The next thing on the programme was a harvest dance in the barn, and thither proceeded the spectators. Most of these were ladies and gentlemen of the neighborhood who had come to honor with their presence 'i a real harvest home, such as we read of in English novels." But unfortunately only few farmers could be   THE HARVEST HOME. " persuaded to make an appearance; the larger portion of them having asseverated with many strange bucolic oaths that they wouldn't come and kick up their shins for a lot o' city folks-durn em. If they wanted to dance they would do it at home; and in- quired with much asperity if Thanksgiving wasn't good enough for them that they wanted to set up an opposition. Others de- clared that it was only some 'Piscopal nonsense, and they wouldn't have nothing to do with it. -Some dozen laborers and their wives, however, were on hand, and in addition to these there were many Irish servant-girls ready for a frolic. Men enough and to sparewere assembled in the barn; some lured by a false rumor of surrepti- tious whiskey, a few for the sake of having a good time, they knew not why and cared not how, and the remainder because, in default of anything more exciting, this would while away the evening. An old negro had been procured to play the fiddle; and Mr. Benly, the manager of the affair, entering with Mr. Wharton's party, gave him notice to strike up. He accordingly perched him- self on a heap of cornstalks, rapped smartly with the bow on the back of his instrument, and callied out lustily, , Take yer places, ladies and'gen'lum, for der fust squar dance," and the fun began. Before he had well got through the elaborate introduction with which he deemed it necessary to regale his auditors in order to show his skill, the limited space was filled with those eager ftr a good time. The creaky notes soon turned to cothlon music, nd Ithe floor resounded beneath the tread and energetic jumps of he dancers ofh To those who stood upon the outside, looking into the barn, he scene presented was strikingly picturesque. The harvest moon, big, round and yellow, seemingly magnified to twice its usual diam- eter, was slowly rising above the gloomy eastern hills, its glittering radiance streaming far and  wide in a  flood of wondrous gleam- ing, shining upon the near treetops With  a bluish steely glint that appeared  almost harsh in contrast with the golden haze that swept over the distantfields. The intense brilliancy poured up towards i the zenith, flooding the stars and making them to seem dim arnd f:I feeble; it poured down over the fair country, investing all with a fairy-like glamour, causing it to shine ith a glow rarely seen save in dreams. Off to the west lay the dark purple river, quiet and slumbrous;   its sombre bosom occasionally breaking into long curv- ing ns of phosphorescent sparkle, dotted with flakes of foam as     Ioo         LOSING TO WIN. the muffled thud of a passing steamboat came to the listeners in a monotonous smothered roar. The side of the barn towards the moon glistened with a greyish gleam that reflected the light in a thousand twinkling points, while the opposite side was gloomily suggestive of brooding shade. From the interior came the flimsy flickering of scattered lanterns dangling from the rafters; the high notes of the screeching fiddle, the cracked cries of its performer, the merry ringing laughter of the dancers, and, over all, the regular trampingo of their feet in measured sequence. They stood there conversing: Allington quoting poetry to Lily; 5ir. Benly discussing St. Paul's opinion of women with Harriet, who made his life a burden to him on the subject of that unlucky apos- tle's sentiments, casting appealing glances towards Eliza; Mrs. (;raynan entertaining Mr. Wharton with a circumstantial account of her various yearnings, and the other spectators talking the usual talk. Suddenly a scream loud and shrill echoed from down the road. All started, looking in the direction whence proceeded the strangre sound. It was repeated, and several of the men stepped forward to inquire into the cause of the disturbance. (;azing ilitently, they saw a white-shirted, hatless figure ap- proaching rapidly with a curiously uneven movement. It came swiftly nearer, disclosing itself to be Jake, who burst into the little group, his eyes awide opened, his hair rumpled, and his mouth agape, panting for breath. "I seed him right full in the face-fair and square," he at length ,(gasped, in response to the numerous questions showered upon him, his lungs worling the while like a pair of bellows. You saw awhom?" was the general demand. "Jacob, you have been drinking," said Mr. Benly sternly, as, indeed, he was justified in saying from Jake's omni-dishevelled manner and exceedingly perfumed breath which exhaled an aroma by no means resembling that of Araby the blest. The dancers, their attention excited by the disturbance, came from the barn and crowded around to hear the news, the old fiddlei bringing up the rear. "Well, I might 'a been havin' a little su'thin'," said Jake apolo- getically to 5Ir. Benly-an ancient taskmaster in the way of forcing him to make brick without straw, or work without drinking: "But I wasn't drunk; no, sir, no mor'n you are. Not a bit of it."   THE  HARVEST HOME.        IOI "But whom did you see?" asked Allington, for Jake had now recovered possession of as much sense as persistent apple-jack had left him. "I seed a ghost., That's wot I see-there now!" he exclaimed triumphantly, as who should say ' Match that if you can.' "A ghost? Nonsense." "'Tain't no nonsense. I see him as plain as I see you." Jake's stock of similes was limited. "Where?" "Down here," jerking his head backwards; "just on the road leadin' from the deppo'. He was a-goin' along, lookin' just as natural as life. I see him right in the face, an' I dropped. Then, wen he'd gone by, I kinder come to, an' I jumped up, an' I hol- lered, an' I run. I tell yer I was skeered-wus'n wen I fit inter the army, the fus' time I hear the bullets a-flyin' an' a-hissin'." "Are you sure that it was not a man?" "Sure? Why, Lordy, the man's dead-been dead more'n two years." "How do you know?" "'Cause I see his body-ain't that enough? No, I know a ghost, an' I tell yer I saw one ter-night, sure's I'm alive." "But whose ghost was it?" "Well, never mind 'bout that; there ain't no use in scarin' other folks, too. If he wants ter see 'em, he knows how to find 'em." "You were drunk," said Allington contemptuously. "Tell ye, I wasn't; hadn't had more'n six or seven glasses of apple-jack. Like to see that make me drunk! Pooh! Wish it would," wistfully. Mr. Benly led Jake aside and tried to persuade him that there were no ghosts; a proposition to which Jake was ready to give assent with a reservation in favor of his particular visitor. It There' ain't no use in talkin'," he said finally, by way of closing the argument. ," I see him, an' I know he's dead. If 'twasn't a ghost, I'd like ter know what 'twas.'" The answer to this question was easily given-; it was agreed that he had been intoxicated and had probably had a nightmare. Dancing was resumed; all went on as before, though the ghost still lingered awhile in Lily's mind.     I02         LOSING TO WIN. D"Do you think that he could really have seen anything?" she asked Allington. "Certainly not," was the prompt response. ",He is most likely suffering from incipient delirium tremens." Had those w-ords been true the course of Allington's life would have been vastly different.   CHAPTER     XIII. Two WOM-EN. ON the block above the largest retail dry-good store in the city, which is as noticeable for its size as for its total lack of all architectural pretension, there were recently two or three buildings whose interior presented a bewildering maze of winding passages and tortuous staircases. Narrow halls, with uneven floors, led from one structure to the other, bending in mysterious curves and very apt to end in a no-thoroughfare by bringing the adventurous explorer face to face with a blank wall. Stairs rose in every place but that in which one would expect to find them; these conducted to other stairs which, in turn, were as involved and difficult to thread as those'already passed. The walls were smooth, and the plaster in fairly good condition, though it was much like a palimp- sest. Any one endowed with sufficient patience could occupy a good hour in deciphering the various layers of paper, numerous traces of each being visible. Daylight rarely penetrated into the recesses; at the utmost there was but a faint, yellowish sort of gleam, as if the rays of the sun were afflicted with a bad liver- complaint. The boarding creaked and gave beneath the feet, and the balustrade yielded to the motion of a hand in a fashion which was the decided reverse of reassuring. Divided and cut up into an infinitude of small apartments, with the exception of one good-sized room sometimes used for lectures or concerts, the numerous rooms were occupied almost exclusively by three classes of beings-quack doctors, dress-makers and art- ists: the latter, as becomes soaring genius, taking possession of the highest and consequently the cheapest. For a large proportion of the tenants rent-day was synonymous with the First of May, for when that important period approached many of them endeavored as best they might to emulate the symbolical Arabs and steal away as quietly as possible. One room at the back of the building was     104        LOSING TO WIN.  exclusively devoted to the reception of effects confiscated for rent, and of these it was full. It contained a motley collection of easels, dentists' chairs, picture frames -their destined contents being given free passage as not worth the trouble of detention-lay figures, and several huge rolls of dirty canvas, which had formerly won open- moutlhed admiration from country people as panoramas of the war or of Europe. Each side of the door was thickly inlaid with tin signs, bearing in gilt letters more or less fresh a quantity of names. One of the oldest of these signs had upon it the words, "Frank Sturdy, Artist." It was this which caught the eye of Silva, as she came thither with Tommy Grains after his taking her from the unsavory atmo- sphere of Mrs. Bitter's meeting. She had promised him to see the wolnan of whom he spoke so familiarly by her first name, but when on the threshold her courage failed. She faltered and hung back. (I do not like to go there. H-am afraid." You have not the least cause, Silva," said Tommy encour- agingly. lraw\ing her into the vestibule, out of the crowd surging up and clown Broadway. "I can appreciate if I can not fully under- ' stand why you should shrink from meeting another woman, but vou need have no dread of Frank; she is as open and generous as a man, besides possessing all a woman's delicacy and native refine- ment. Colle." As she had hitherto yielded to his stronger will in obeying him, so she now again yielded, and ascended the stairs slowly by his side, panting as they went still upwards. Reaching the topmost land- ing, Tommy paused to let Silva regain her exhausted breath. Then, bestowing upon her a cheering look, he led the way along a narrow, whitewashed hall to a door whereon was the same name they had noticed below, A knock was answered by "Come in." Turning the knob, Tommy preceded Silva through the doorway and around the screen of colored paper standing immediately before it. The room into which they entered was bare as bare could be. Small and confined, its only furniture consisted of two rickety chairs and a very shaky-looking chest of drawers. Standing in the centre was a square piece of board, about the size of a small table, supported by four outward-stretching legs some five feet from the floor; on it was a mass of clay, part of which was enveloped in   TWO WOMEN.           105 wet rags while the uncovered portion was dry and cracked. At the foot was a bucket of water and a quantity of rags. Upon the board lay many oddly-shaped little tools, looking like the product of a mixed breed of chisels and spoons. "Wait a minute," said the artist as she smilingly nodded to Tommy. Dipping her hands into the water, she washed and wiped them upon the long spotted blouse descending from her neck to her feet, in almost the space of time indicated. A few minutes passed before Silva summoned up sufficient bravery to raise her eyes to the artist's face and see what sort of looking person was the one to whom Tommy had brought her. She saw a woman of thirty-five or perhaps thirty-eight years of age, with a fresh bright countenance which perfectly justified her baptis- mal name. She was not handsome, nor yet the opposite, but some- thing in her face was so invitingly sympathetic, the expression was so open and noble, that Silva felt she could rest upon its owner as a tired child upon its mother's bosom. Frank's eyes were large and greyish in color, with a kindly light in them, the pupils expand- ing or contracting when she looked with eagerness or withdrew them satisfied from the object of their gaze. Her hair was dark brown streaked with white, and twisted tightly around her head in a single coil, showing what many women take such unaccount- able pains to conceal-the beautiful slope at the nape of the neck. Her form was full and inclined to stoutness, though refined and agile. Grains stayed but a short time, his intention being to remain only long enough to relieve Silva of her first embarrassment. Frank was already acquainted with the major portions of her story, and it was therefore unnecessary for him to communicate anything further. He soon arose to go, but after bidding Silva good after- noon-for the sun was now rapidly declining towards the west- drew Frank behind the screen. "I shall perhaps come back this evening," he said, fumbling in his vest pocket. "Treat Silva gently; she needs it-poor girl!" Then abruptly, "'Here, take this," and hurriedly thrusting into her hand a crumpled ten-dollar bill, he disappeared with more agility than Frank had ever before credited to him.  Locking the door, Frank rejoined Silva. Come into the other room," she sai; ," you will find it more comfortable than this." The other room was small like the studio, but more comfort- 5*     O6       .  LOSING TO WIN. ably fitted up. Beneath the gas jet dependent from the ceiling was a table covered with green baize, on which were lying several muslin-bound and paper-covered books; the contents of two hanging shelves also showed that Frank was able to keep abreast with the thought of the day. The walls were decked with a num- ber of chronmos-each possessing some peculiar effect of sky,   t cloud or sunlight which had caught Frank's fancy-and cheap wooden brackets supporting a complete series of her works. These bore labels denoting the order in which they were produced, and afforded opportunities for a curious study in noticing the differ- ent phases of her mind and the development of one thought from its predecessor. In a corner was a squat, fat cooking stove, sprawling out its short legs, and sticking its long neck of pipe out the window like an inquisitive plesiosaurus, anxious to look into the streets and see what was going on in this nineteenth century. Above it were some shelves containing a modest culinary battery. At the farther end of the room a curtained alcove held the bed. Some chairs, easy and decidedly otherwise, and a wide comfortable lounge, completed the domestic equipment.  Seating Silva on the lounge, Frank commenced speaking of herself as the best way in which to reassure her guest, for the startled look had not yet died out of her opened eyes, nor the color in her cheeks ceased to fitfully come and go. "I often amuse myself with looking over these statuettes of mine, and remembering how I was influenced in making them by the feelings which affected me at the time. Now, here is the first I made when I settled down to steady work in these rooms. You see-it is a toad. I was horribly out of sorts then, and very blue. I used to make half-a-dozen toads a day, and kept at it for a month, until the demand ceased. Next, is a lizard-I was getting better then, so of course my ideas began to modify. These I worked at for about six weeks. No. 3 is a grasshopper. This fellow ran so well that I kept at him for over two months, and stopped only because I was tired; but I think that I shall turn out some more of his brothers in time for the holidays. By this time, as you can imagine without much difficulty, I was pretty well cured; and so my next production was a fly, who flew so well that he brought me in quite an amount of greenback grist. Then comes a baby-why, my poor girl, you are crying." Little Silva was indeed crying. So long isolated, so long feel-   TWO WOMEN.            7 Io7 ing herself obliged to shun her old friends and associates, to keep far from them lest they should see her taint; to contain within herself all corroding thoughts, living only upon the memory of the brief, too brief time when she. had fondly believed herself happy, but which was now her bitter anguish-her nervous strength was completely exhausted. The talk with Grains in the bier-garden had broken through the icy barrier of separation she had striven to erect around her present life. Frank's kind reception, the attempt by careless conversation to distract her mind-and of this the intention far more than the words--the knowledge that her story was known to this woman, who yet did not shrink from her, nor refuse to take her hand--completely dissolved the icy barrier. It melted into tears, soft tears that rolled with increasing frequency down the thin cheeks. "Do not cry," said Frank, as she sat down by her side upon the lounge, and, putting an arm around her waist, drew Silva to- wards her so that the poor girlish head sank on her shoulder, where it rested as a tired bird rests in the hand. "Or, yes, cry; cry out your sorrows, and relieve your overburdened heart of its grief. Do notfear with me; Tommy has told me about you. God knows, my child, that I also came only too near mistaking my way as you have mistaken yours, and every night on my knees do I thank Him for having preserved me." Frank's voice, a pure contralto, had in it an odd, strange inflec- tion like a chord which gave many of her words an impressive intonation. Though masculine to some, never did human tones sound sweeter to human ears than did this voice to Little Silva as the curious diapason was heard through the rapidly gathering darkness. "I can feel with you, feel deeply, feel tenderly; for by small merit of mine was I rescued. A mere accident, a trivial circum- stance opened my eyes, and I fled here to struggle with myself. The fight was long, very long and very weary, but I conquered in the end. Although that was more than twelve years ago, the memory of my struggle is still as keen, as vivid as on the day I first entered these rooms. Many a desolate hour have I passed here, many an hour of weakness, of temptation to retrace my steps and pursue the will-o'-the-wisp that flickered with enticing, delu- sive light; many a time have I flung down my tools, resolved upon dreaming my dream let the awakening be what it might. But-.     I08         LOSING TO WIN. thank God!-the momentary dazzle always passed; always did I see the falseness of the deceitful light, and started back in horror like one inadvertently stepping too near the edge of a precipice." A pair of thin arms stole around Frank's protecting form; a thin cheek moved closer to her own; a faint voice murmured brokenly: "I loved him so-I trusted-" Frank's tones became lower and softer. "I can imagine that. I can imagine a happy, unsuspecting girl trusting entirely in the man she loves. I can imagine her, in her innocence, giving away her heart so completely that she does not realize what more she gives; I can imagine her so enwrapped in the rosy-colored mist of love, that wondrous mantle which con- ceals from us all thoughts of earth, that when she has given her heart she has given her all, and thinks not, cares not, for anything further. And I can imagine such a one waking-waking from her opium slumber, waking to fall from heaven to rugged, stony ground, waking to life, to eating sorrow." The thin arms tightened around her; thin lips kissed her thankfully. Her voice softened more; the strange, odd chord at intervals sounded deeper and more sonorous through the dense gloom. "I can imagine such a woman wild, despairing, and then sinking down into a sullen lethargy of misery, caring for nothing, hoping nothing, praying only for death. And I can see such a woman-for I no longer imagine-meeting a friend, a friend who lhad also suffered, who also knows the meaning of lacerated affec- tions, of poisoned love, and whose wounds, though not so deep, are deep enough to make her sympathize fully with her sister." The sonorous voice grew low and solemn. "And I can see the poor, wearied girl, hardly more than a child, heart-sick and lonely, determining that all is not yet lost; that though the past may not he retrieved, it may still be atoned for; determining that she will still fight bravely the battle of life, that she will still walk onward, strive upward and look steadily before. I can see her praying humbly, devotedly, that her sins may be forgiven, that courage may be granted her to struggle and endure, that she may so live as to at last stand in, the white light of that place where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest." The tones died away, fading into the thick air, as the two   TWO WOMEN.           109 women sat there, Silva's head buried upon the breast where, for the first time after months of torture, it found a safe and welcome rest. The red eye of an overlooking lamp glared into the dusky, darkened room, smote, through the shadows hovering in the cor- ners, touched with a fantastic gleam the inquisitive stove-pipe, and cast a dim halo around Frank sitting and holding Little Silva's head upon her breast, speaking to her of consolation and of hope.  CHAPTER XIV. NEPHELOKOKUGIA. NEPHELOKOKUGIA, or its modern correlative the Kingdom of Cocagne, is an exceedingly pleasant place to live in. I ere the roastedl -ducks fly about, crying Come and eat me, and the community is subject to no stricter laws than those devised by the Roi d'Ivetot. It is a lotos-eaters' paradise, a land where it is always afternoon. Not for its inhabitants shines the broad sun or blows the refreshing breeze of morning; their sole light is a drowsy, nillow atmosphere, lulling to repose, inviting to rest, never disturbed save by breezes so gentle that they but serve to b}reak the monotony without stirring to more strenuous existence. Care, thought, never come within its enchanted borders ; no incen- tive to duty, no call to a higher, wider life breaks the dreamy spell. Thle languid air soothes to a gentle state in which pleasure of the moment is the sole consideration, and the only question is not what to do next-as in the outer world of heated, bustling strife- but how to prolong the sensuous sloth so dear to its natives. It resemtlbles Bohelemia, but is far different from that fabulous country. There was once a wirmwhen Bohemia held its own in the city of New York; when its dwellers had a recognized position and could wield a certain amount of power. But that is now changed. The word Bohemian, at present, signifies-and, unhap- pily, with only too much truth-one who is idle, disreputable, and shiftless, given to inebriation and reckless borrowing. Perchance he may have talent, but whether he have or not is a matter of small consequence to him and to others, since he rarely takes the trouble of exerting it. The American Bohemia flourished too rapidly; growing as an exotic, it absorbed the life-blood of those who frequented it, and to-day, ruined and almost forgotten, is remembered only )by reasou of its being bordered with dead men's bones.   i              NEPHELOKOKUGIA.          I I I Cocagne flourishes: it is comparatively harmless; the air is I:1   scarcely noxious, and, though enervating, is not laden with disease- Zk   bearing germs. There is in it no class cultivating a particular 'empty, scorn of all- that is good or high; singing Luther's refrain with hoarse voices, and so altering it as to assert that wine, woman and song are the only things worth living for; scoffing with a per- verse brutality at all nobleness, and chanting the praises only of that which is low. In the Kingdom of Cocagne each follows the bent of his inclinations. The ingenuous aspirations of youth are not considered a proper butt for jests; it .is permitted to believe that life consists of something more than the mere satisfaction of daily wants, the indulgence of daily appetite; women are judged by their mental, instead of by their physical qualities, and a man is not there deemed guilty of a moral dereliction because he pre- fers paying his debts to ordering a supper. The air is enervating; those breathing it easily settle down to a state of passivity. The inhabitants being composed for the greater part of the younger men connected with the press, and artists of one kind or another, they are satisfied to produce but enough for a livelihood and enjoy themselves the remainder of the time. There is in newspaper work that which seems to unfit one for steady, long-continued application, and this the air of Cocagne tends in no way to counteract. Many men, of ability and talent to make a mark, fritter away their lives, and after years of work look back upon nothing more lasting than innumerable columns of matter which, like Franklin's ephemera, are born only to die. Rapidly do they fall into the condition of a II hack," writing as they are instructed, and doing not a single stroke beyond what is abso- lutely necessary. They are content with this existence. At first they may feel some vague craving for a better state, some ill-de- I     fined sensation that they are not doing justice to themselves or to their brains; but these sensations soon subside, their aspirations die of atrophy, and they plod on in their tread-mill course, with as much of earnestness and love for their labor as if they were hoeing cabbages. They live in a Fool's Paradise; pleasant and agreeable enough for those who are content to sink into every-day drudgery, full of momentary amusement and rest from care, but as destructive of energy, as annihilating of enduring work as is the -9ir: gloomier land of shadowy Bohemia. if    And thus live'd Frederick Bayner. His only object had been , X     I I2        LOSING TO WIN. to finish his work as satisfactorily and as quickly as possible, and to then divert himself in the easiest manner. Given a certain thing to investigate, a procession to accompany, a meeting to attend, upon their conclusion he would hurry to the office and write his account expeditiously. He did not slur nor shirk his work, but performed it in such wise as he might with least trouble to himself, while furnishing a report acceptable to the city editor. Occasionally, under the influence of emotions which he never troubled himself to analyze, he would take more pains with his work, labor over it carefully, polishing sentences and altering words until he had produced a well-written article. This he would read at breakfast the next morning with a slight glow of inward complacency, which usually died away into thoughts of what use to take so mIuch toil and worry his brain for the sake of attaining so small a result. So, he would go on as before. The trip to Stemwell, for the purpose of making a letter about the rumored strike, had, however, an influence upon him which was destined to tinge all his subsequent career. The sight of Lily's fresh, sweet face, her pure, serene beauty, lingered with him like the reminiscence of dream music; something ethereal, far removed froml the dusty labor of earth, and raising the beholder to a higher plane. Its memory was as a bit of blue seen through the rifts of a cloudy sky. It was not that the fair face descended to him, but that he ascended towards it. He thought of it often. Accustomed to associate with men-Frank being his only feminine friend-he was more intensely affected than had he been better used to woman's society. With a young man's imaginative yielding to a capricious fancy, he wove many dreams of which Lily was the warp and he the woof,t; and then smiled to think how flimsy and thin was the airy loom. \Vith the fair face before him, while at Stemwell, he felt incited a to good Nwork; as a consequence his letter from that place was the best piece of writing he had yet done. The next afternoon, at the office, he felt a pleasurable thrill when told by the all-powerful managing editor that it was ' good-very good indeed. And," adlded 5Mr. Saxton, " keep your eye on that brick-yard, so that if any- thing happens you can go there at once." In addition to this com- pliment, for Mr. Saxton's compliments were like the visits of the mlisquoted angel, the " scissors " in the course of a few days showed him his letter copied in numerous out-of-town papers.   I             NEPHELOKOKUGIA.          113 :     This was naturally very gratifying; the more so since he was e  - promoted to a higher grade than that of reporter, and given larger :'5   and more important events to write up. A good railroad accident occurring about this time-fortunately in the morning, so that he had the day and night in which to write-he produced a description of it which again evoked Mr. Saxton's encomiums, and again incited hitn to renewed effort. But despite the remembrance of the fair face, of the gracious eyes which it required small effort to call before him, smiling and kindly as when he had seen them-if ever any man lived in the Fool's Paradise it was he. It is trite to say that the daily pa pers absorb most of the best talent of the country, but the fact remains none the less true, and Frederick found plenty of companions. Seated in some bier-saloon-the common resort of those who can neither go home nor see each other in their respective offices-he talked with friends by the hour, discussing all subjects from Fichte's so-called explanation of tri-unity to the latest political rumor. Much lager would be consumed at their sittings, but to no delete- rious extent. This was perhaps good for education, for mental training, but very unsatisfactory in its tangible results. It was jolly and pleasant, to get through his work and then join the accus- tomed circle to there discuss the universe, considering hypotheses as established and deducing therefrom consequences which would have made their respectable originators stare aghast. His work was well performed, but performed only that it might be finished; as for doing anything beside his daily task, that he never once considered Gradually the faint face became fainter; the gracious eyes shone less brightly. He was not absolutely forgetting the one short glimpse he had had of Lily, but its memory was growing vaguer and more dream-like. Though frequently thinking of it, it came to him in such a manner that he could scarcely have told whether it were real or the recollection of a hurriedly seen painting. The airy loom stopped working; no longer did it spin the many-tinted fabrics ot glowing colors which it had formerly yielded in rapid profusion. The warp was blurred and indistinct; it melted into varying shapes :^ that momentarily changed as changes drifting mist. Endeavoring to summon before his mind's eye the complete form of Lily, his i0i0i Prospero's wand could produce only an unsubstantial ghost which, 4:i like those of Ossian, was so impalpable as to reveal the frosty stars g2! beyond. ,SX     I 11        LOSING TO WIN. They were stars, but he did not aspire to them. For half an hour he had felt ambitious, but for half an hour only. A short reverie, like a passing vertigo, seemed to flit through his brain, he felt capable of being far more than he was; that there was stuff in him to make a man who should be worth his salt-which he frankly acknowledged that he was not at present. He would be industrious, laborious even; but the reverie passed, and he sank back to his drudging existence. He had at one time thought much of seeing Lily again, for of tlhis he did not doubt an instant; he was convinced that he would meet her, or, rather, hardly questioned the possibility, feeling it "nstinctively as in the order of things. He would meet her, and byt somie means ob)tain an introduction, talk to her. Farther than this his imagination had not gone, save with a wide leap to admire the fabrications of the airy loom. But as the fair face became lnore indistinct these thoughts occurred to him no longer. The ihot days of summer came and went, events succeeded each other with monotonous regularity-those falling to his share being amply recorded in the columns of the Globular in as good English as he was able to command, and that was of a very fair quality. These thoughts occurred to him no longer; the idea of soon see- ing, of ever seeing the owner of that countenance which had so impressed itself upon him, though deeply sunken into his brain, Nwas covered with the deposit left there by subsequent circum- stances: concealed by the veil of intervening weeks, it was gener- ally hidden except when some flitting emotion, some stirring of recollection sufficed to draw the veil aside. Then it would close, and the inlage behind relapse once more into that state which is of neither memory nor forgetfulness, but which requires a mental effort to perceive the dormant presence. So, Frederick lived in the Kingdom of Cocagne, but the king was now deposed, and a queen ruled in his stead; a queen so shadowy and so unsubstantial that only at times was she recog- nized as sovereign. But he could never be as he had been before seeing Lily. Unconsciously to himself, the genius had escaped from the bottle and was ever growing. For the present all went as before: he led the same free, careless, unthinking course of pre- vious months, catching the roasted ducks and wondering what was the reason that their; flavor appeared ,to have greatly deterio- rated. They did not taste as they used, but he was unable to   1             J NEPHELOKKOUGIA.         I 15 determine if the fault lay in them or in his palate. As the red :g    days of fall drew nigh, and the heated summer was waning to a close, Frederick paid much attention to Mr. Saxton's recommenda- tion, and kept his eyes steadily fastened upon the brick-yard at Stemwell, so as to be ready " in case anything happens."  '      CHAPTER XV. AN ARDENT REFORMER. THE anthropoidal ancestor had come to grief. Notwithstanding the toil bestowed and even lavished upon it by Mr. Snoggles, the s'howman to whose order it was made declared positively--and profanely-that it looked too much like a second-hand gorilla to suit his public, and refused to take it unless evidence of its being the connecting link wnere more plainly manifested. In vain did Mr. Snoggles assert that it was fashioned after scientific princi- ples; the showman incontinently condemned scientific principles, adding strenuously, t" I don't want them. What I do want is something to show the country folks, and hev the parsons bring their Sunday schools to, an' tell 'em what an awful cuss that Dar- Nwin is. That's what I want." In this emergency Mr. Snoggles, presuming on the strength of the one Imemorable interview when Grains had " written him up," despatched a note to that brilliant journalist asking for his aid in reconciling matters. Tommy was delighted to assist at any such affair, besides having a private reason for wishing to see Snoggles, and so one afternoon in early September found him in the bird- shop with the showman, Mr. Snoggles, and the man of all work, Zachariah. " Now, I leave it to you, Mr. Grains," said Snoggles appeal- ingly, " if I 'ain't done my work all right. Mr. Grains, you see," he continued to the showman in an explanatory manner, "h is one o' them fellers on the Globular newspaper that knows all about these things and writes about 'em all the time. He's a real scientific gentleman, he is, an' don't believe nothin' unless he sees it. Wy, if you was to tell him that two and two make four he wouldn't agree unless he see it," and he looked around triumphantly at his success in thus summing.up the character of a scientific gentle- man.  AN ARDENT REFORMER.          I7 "I don't care nothin' about that,"' was the surly rejoinder. " I know wot suits me, an' this yer thing don't," waving his hand con- temptuously in the direction of Mr. Snoggles' masterpiece. 1" Come," said Grains, " before we talk any more, let's have him out, and take a good look at him." Zachariah was accordingly directed to lend a hand, and by his grumbling efforts, united with those of Mr. Snoggles, the huge monstrosity was placed in the centre of the little shop, where it could be surveyed from all sides. It was really a successful piece of handiwork. Standing five and a half feet high, the body was slightly bent forward, the right hand clasping a large stick on which it leaned, while the left arm was threateningly outstretched. The pose was good and effective; as, indeed, it ought to have, been, being copied from an illustration to one of Du Chaillu's books. " Well," said the showman argumentatively, " I 'ain't no man- ner of objections to statin' wy he don't suit. I'll allow he's a good figger, and 'ud do bully for a musyum, or a one-horse side-show to a circus. But that ain't my business. I'm a moral exhibition, I am-Sunday schools half price-an' if I was ter tell folks that's the connecting link between man an' animals, they'd say it was a blasted lie, and wouldn't come no more. I've got to have some- thin', you see, for the parsons to talk about." A" Then, what kind of thing do you want?" was Mr. Snog- gles' not unnatural inquiry. "I dunno exactly,' with a lengthened drawl. " Somethin' for 'em to preach over." "You cannot do better than this," said Grains persuasively, dropping into oratory.  " In the different collections of natural his- tory you may perhaps find his equal, but I venture to say with no fear of contradiction that his superior.exists not. Observe, if you please, the refined and characteristic pointing of the ears; notice how that trait may be even found in ourselves to a slight extent. Notice, furthermore, the extremely beautiful caudal suggestion about the termination of the os coccyx. And yet, my friends, we cannot call this most interesting creature a simian. No. Far be it from us to so lower the dignity of the human being, the highest in nature's infinitely varied and complicated scale. He is the anthropoidal ancestor from whom, in the words of the illustrious naturalist, we are probably descended. Is it not wonderful, stu-     I I8        'LOSING TO WIN. pendous, staggering even to think of the animated protoplasm passinpr through the amorphous protozo6n, progressing through the anthrt-opoidal stages, and finally arriving at the full-blown homo- gtnceity of nman, where the physical and psychical unite in their highest combinations?" "Brayvo," cried Snoggles enthusiastically, fairly carried away )by this burst of eloquence and hard words combined. "That's the sort of talk for a scientific gent. What did I tell you?" he dleandetd of the showman. "Fust-rate," said this latter individual pithily; then, turning to Grains, "Say, mister, what 'ud you charge to write me a speech like that for my show-sling in all them big words, you know? I've got a feller to speak it; one of them chaps with lan- tern-jaws an' a black coat, but Lordy! he can't write worth a cent. \What 'ud you charge now, say?" "I think," answered Grains, laughing, "that I can do what you Awant, and if you stick to your bargain with Mr. Snoggles I'll throw in the speech tor nothing." "Will you though? That's real kind," exclaimed the stuffer of birds and manufacturer of anthropoidal ancestors. "Is that a go?" asked the showman incredulously, "Yes." "Honest?" "Yes." "All right, then. Shake hands on it." Suiting the action to the word, he took Grains' hand in his own, gave it a single shake, and dropped it like a stone. Here a diversion was created by Zachariah, who arose slowly from the stool on which he had been sitting, smoking his pipe and regarding the anthropoid with great interest. He addressed Grains, speaking in his usual drawling manner: "Look here, mister, did you say that we've pointed ears, same as them monkeys?" "They're not monkeys, Zack," interrupted Snoggles, exulting in his superior attainments. "I want to know if he said so." ( I did, said Grains. "An' thet we've come from 'em-thet they're our great-grand- parents-my great-grandparents?" "Yes."   i1          AN ARDENT REFORMER.         I I9 "Well, now," Zachariah went on, laying down his pipe and }   taking off his coat with the utmost deliberation; "you just take that back, or, by gosh! I'll whip you. Thet's infidel. I come from Adam an' Eve, an' I ain't a-goin' ter hev any man tell me 'tain't so." "You're crazy," said Grains contemptuously, while at the same time he could not help laughing at this droll champion of ortho- doxy. "Zack, shut up and sit down," ordered Mr. Snoggles, antithe- tically. "I won't," cried he thus addressed. "I was brought up re- spectably; used to go to meetin' three times every Sabbath, an' Wednesday evenin' lectures. I ain't no infidel. I never mind wot you say, Mr. Snoggles; 'cause you're sort o' foolish anyhow, an' 'tain't no 'count; but I ain't a-goin' to be slandered and stand it. Ole Mister Reel, he al'ers said thet we oughter rebuke infidels, an' I'm a-goin' to do it. Come, now; will you take thet back?" "Take back what?" asked, Grains, intensely amused. "Take back your sayin' that I come from a monkey. My folks come over in the Mayflower, an' I'll allow thet they didn't come from no monkeys." "What then do you wish me to say?" "Wall, I don't care a durn wot you: say about yourself; but I ain't a-goin' to give up Adam an' Eve-they're good enough for me. I want you to allow that I come from them." "Very well. Have it as you please." ," Then you take back wot you said about my hevin' pointed ears?" "So far as my remarks applied to you in any way, I withdraw them entirely," said Grains with as straight a visage as he could com- mand, ardently desiring an opportunity to relax his facial muscles. "Thet's honor'ble an' satisfactory. You're a' gentleman, sir," said Zachariah, resuming his coat leisurely and replacing the pipe in his mouth. He sat down filled with the proud consciousness of :11  having performed his duty and rebuked the infidel. In the meanwhile, Snoggles, judging that no immediate colli- I:5   sion might be apprehended, had continued his bargaining with the -l:5-, showman. By the time Zack's ebullition had subsided, the two negotiators had come to terms. It was decided 'that the pointed :s:.H ; ears should be made still more pointed, and the rudimentary tail '. -.s X     120         LOSING TO WIN. more prominent. The promise of Grains' speech had a. great share in bringing about this result, for the showman was much taken by what he had heard, and Snoggles was shrewd enough to heighten the effect by dwelling upon the scientific acquirements of the man "who didn't believe nothin'." As the showman bade them good day and departed, Grains requested Snoggles to send for some bier, for which he offered to pay but was not allowed. "You've done me another favor, Mr. Grains," said the grateful bird-stuffer, "( and you shan't pay for any bier in my house. Wy, that feller only come here the first time 'cause he read wot you wrote about me in the Globular. You'd oughter seen the people look at nme the day after that notice come out." The recollection of it inspired him with a new sense of dignity, for he sat upright, thrust out his chin, and his ears twitched as though inclined to dance. "I wanted some bier," said Grains, {" so as to get your man out of the way. Will you do me a favor?" "Certainly, certainly; with the greatest of pleasure," cried Mr. Siioggrles eagerly; " of course I will. If it hadn't a-been for you, I shouldn't 'a had the making of this antrop-antrop-oidal "- he recollected iwith an effort, bringing out the syllables hurriedly, as if afraid that Grains might anticipate him; ii and even then that fel- ler wouldn't have taken him, if it hadn't been for you again. Of course I'll do you a favor-if I can," he added with a prudent reser- vation. "I think you can : it is nothing very much. Do you know where Mrs. Bilter lives?" "\ What, thatt woman's-rights thing? I should rather think I did. I haven't I had that poor boy Philip here lots of times, tellin' me about the house and the way she lets it run to seed? Don't you rlellelber? I sent him to you one night, and you got him. a place in the compositors' room." "Yes-he is doing well, I believe. So, if you know Mrs. Bilter's house, I would like you to go there to-day." "What for?" "Some time ago, a pretty young girl named Silva fell in with those people and was treated very cruelly. I happened to see her at Mrs. Bilter's three or four weeks since, and took her away, out of their reach. Mrs. Bilter has Deen writing her a number of notes,   AN ARDENT REFORMER.          I21 directing them to my care, saying she must see Silva upon matters of great importance. I have tried myself to find out what this is, but she refuses to tell me. But if you go there, tell her that Silva sent you, being unable to come, representing yourself as in full sym- pathy with all their schemes "-Snoggles made a wry face as one who drinketh verjuice unawares--" and call yourself a reformer of some kind, you could probably learn what these matters of great importance'are. Will you do it?" "( I will, to oblige you, Mr. Grains; though I don't like it. Still, it may be kind of funny to talk to that critter, so I'll do it. I'll go IlOW. "You will oblige me greatly, whether you are successful or not. I will come in to-morrow, and learn the result of your visit." Left to himself, Mr. Snoggles proceeded to make his toilette. At first he brought out his most gorgeous raiment, including a pea-green necktie with crimson spots, much admired in the neigh- borhood. Reflection, however, showed him, that if he were to pass for a reformer he must present a shabby appearance; so he put on, instead, his oldest clothes. His hair had not been cut*for several months, and was therefore long enough to be correct, and his countenance, unshaven for three days, admirably increased the effect. Crossing the City Hall Park, he took a Greenwich Avenue car and was soon dropped into a puddle at the Bank Street crossing. It was not without an acceleration in the beating of his heart that he rang the bell, thinking that in another moment he would be face to face with the great leader. He half confessed to him- self fhat he should not be deeply sorry were she not at home. This sorrow he was not destined to experience, for in response to his question if Mrs. Bilter were in, he received an affirmative answer from the slatternly servant,'and was ushered into the flare front parlor where was held the eventful gathering of the clans. Its appearance had not changed since the day on which Tommy H  Grains had there seen Little Silva. Many of the chairs had been removed, most likely to the infirmary where they belonged, and X those that remained looked as if they had been sat upon by suc- cessive generations until the lingering vestiges of springy self-asser- t  tion or hair-cloth vitality had been utterly crushed out. The win- !  dows were devoid of curtains; the panes, dingy with the accumu- '4 I6     122         LOSING TO WIN. lated dust of summer, gave proof of what favorite resting-places they were for flies. The wheezy clock on the mantel-piece had stopped ; run down to the very bottom of the hill, it had apparently ,given up its work as a bad job, determined to have no more of it. The cleanest article in the room was a fly-paper affair,/half stuck into the grate and half inclining outwards, as of a mind to walk from the house and shift for itself. While NIr. Snogles w\\as makinr these investigations, the sound of an openiing door and the rustle of a dress arous ed him sutlicicitly to stand up and take Mrs. Bilter's extended hand-like l]t-rstlf, 1hard, cold(, and rigid. As she fastened upon him her glit- erin- ey-e, lte felt ullcommonly like the luckless wedding-guest, and the iiext ingment lie heard the loud bassoon of her voice. "You didl not senld me your name, sir." "I ---..h --I )betgr ardlon. Snoggles, ma'am, Snoggles, at your service; very proud to see the distinguished Mrs. Bilter." With tilis lit rItckl's sly plungCCed head-foremost into the pith of his assumed chtaracter, rgainingl courage from the sound of his voice. "I'm a reformer too; leastways, I want to be. Tlhere's lots of things tlAt tought to be rcformed, I think, and I'd like first-rate to take a hanmd in. Thler's banks and greenbacks and railroads and all thellm tthilg-s. Thev need reforming --every one of 'erm." M1rs. Iiltcr sat cownll on a wicked-looking sofa-an assassin sofa, whichl wNould stab one with unexpected wire daggers-and motioned Ir. Snogrrles to take a chair-, saying: I trust, sir, that you sympathize with us in our great struggle for the emancipation of women?" "'That I ldo, ima'am ; right up to the hub. I'rm with you entirely. I believe in women's voting, free love, no marriage, and all. If we're -oinll' to reform the world, let's reform everything-- Nwomen first. Speaking of women reminds me of Silva."  He paused; but instead of speaking, Mrs. Bilter only glanced at him stonilv il a very disconcertincg manner. He proceeded, somewhat confused. ("She told me you had written her that you had some- thing imnportant for her, and asked me if I wouldn't stop here and find out what it was-she's sick, and can't leave the house." (\\:here is she living?" asked Mrs. Bilter distrustingly. "No. 29I Varick Street," Mr. Snoggles replied intrepidly: he had anticipaltcd tlhis question and was ready for it. \Whcn do you expect to see her again?"   AN ARDENT REFORMER.          23 "I told her I would call to-morrow morning," was the prompt reply. "Well;, tell her that the details for our great meeting are now fully arranged. It will take place about the middle of October. I consider it highly necessary that she should come forward and make herself prominent, if she expects to gather any of the fame which will some day be given to us advanced thinkers. I have made up the programme so that she wrill speak immediately aftei me; the subject and title of her address she may choose for her- self. But she must come and talk it over as soon as possible. Will you tell her that?" "Yes, ma'am; every word of it." He rose to depart, but was not to be let off so easily. "Sit down," she said in a tone of command, fastening her eye upon him. Mr. 'Snoggles felt keenly that he was a guilty wretch to have come there under false pretences, and was horribly afraid of a slip of the tongue which might reveal him in his true colors. "Sit down. What particular branch of reform have you turned your attention to?" she added with the air of one bent upon open- ing a long conversation. Snoggles sighed as he replied ruefully, "Banks, ma'am;" thinking that as good a subject as any. inisWhat do you complain of in regard to them?" like a grand inquisitor. "Oh, everything. Why should they have lot's o' money when Iain'tgot a cent? It isn't fair. Look at 'em with their vaults a-bustin' with gold while a poor working-man can't afford more'n one coat, It's a shame." "Quite right;" the grand inquisitor nodded encouragingly; then, as if afraid of relaxing too much, became stern again. "How do you propose to reform them ? ' Bust 'em. Bust every one, and divide all their money among the hard-fisted sons of toil"-(he had once read that phrase in  a paper and thought  it sounded finely.) "When that's all spent we'll have the General Government issue greenbacks to lend upon every  man's note-renewable as often as he pleases--and hang to the  nearest lamp-post everybody who won't take 'em at par." "Very good." Ain't it, though? It will be just fine when we git all the greenbacks we want, and don't have no marriage, no churches,  q     124         LOSING TO WIN. no parsons, no prisons, no hanging for murder-(but we've got that reformn now)-nor any of those things that hinder the free w-orkings of our souls." Mr. Snoggles really got through the ordeal of question by the eye-a new form of torture, but as effective as any of the old methods--very respectably. Newspaper reading stood him in Cood stead, for he remembered many of the reformers' pet phrases and employed them judiciously. Altogether, Mrs. Bilter was pleasedl with her acquaintance, and when she finally consented to let him go, did so only on his making a promise-extorted from him as though it were a cork and she the corkscrew-that he would soon come again. He learned definitely that the message to Little Silva comprised all the matters of importance which Mrs. Bilter had to communicate. V"Whew!" exclaimed iMr. Snoggles to himself as he stepped into the car to go down town. "I think if I saw much o' that woman I'd kill her on general principles. But then," he added meditatively, "they don't let men kill women; it's only when it's the other way that it's all right."   CHAPTER XVI. MUTTERINGS OF A STORM. THE red days of fall had comne-come to Stemwell as to the city. In the one place with fresh, salt breezes that swept up from the bay, past Staten Island, through Broadway, dispensing on every hand coolness and a revivifying sense of newer life. In the other they had come wrapped in the mellow haze of Indian sum- mer, turning the leaves to gleaming color with sudden touch. The trees were transformed, as it were in a night, from a thick mass of heaped greenery to quivering clumps of dull, dead gold, mottled and flecked with crimson stains or scarlet clusters, passing through all intermediate shades from glowing brilliancy to a faded red. The vermilion edict of autumn had gone forth with all the bar- baric pomp of a Chinese emperor. A sensuous luxury of color pervaded all. The encircling mountains shimmered softly through the intervening mist as though they were the only true porphyro- geniti, and right regally did they wear the majestic color of their sovereignty; lording it placidly over the circumjacent country, as if they alone possessed the secret of Brahminical nirvana. The river ever ran its endless course; the low wash of the tide mur- muring to itself of untold secrets, and sucking at the shore with hun- gry lips. Farther out, where the breeze had fuller sweep, the water broke into little billows and miniature mountains, mocking the real; and over the surface white-caps flashed continuously, breaking into fitful flying foam. Through the agency of Mr. Homer Graynan, the great specu- lator, Mr. Wharton had purchased the brick-yard, with all the rights, appurtenances and possessions thereto appertaining. This was but a drop in the bucket, for, by the same means, he had also gone heavily into a large operation for " bulling the market " with a cer- tain railroad stock. The conduct of the latter business he confided entirely to the hands of his friend, reserving to himself the outward     I26         LOSING TO WIN. management of the brick-yard, while Graynan and Mr. Samuel Gog- gings should secretly pull the strings. Already was there music in the air; not music of the moonlight sonata style, but rather of that which is clanging and harsh with rattle of drums and blare of trumpets. Rumors were flying around Stemwnell as thickly as flies in a kitchen. The mediaeval hundred tongues of this traditional dame were wagging at full speed. That mysterious disembodied sprite called everybody declared that a strike of unexampled duration was to shortly take place, in which, the demands of the laborers would be promptly met by the decla- ration of a " lock out," and that, the obstinacy of each side being eqlual, the conflict between the owners and the men could not fail to be stubborn and bitter. At present the brick-yard was work- ing busily ; a large numlber of extra men was imported, and their demands accorded with a suspicious readiness. Hardly a night passedl that the smoke of burning brick did not turn the bright sky to a murky red(, while the quantity on hand accumulated rapidly. It was of course speedily noisedl ablroad with the wonderful cetlerity owned by all news in the country, as though each item were supplied with a special pair of seven-leagued boots, that Mr. Wharton had purchased the brick-yard. When interrogated upon the subject, as is the fashion where every man's business is sup- posed to o)e public property, he invariably said that he had bought it because it happened to be in the market when he happened to have soIme oney unemployeed, and should sell as soon as he could do so without loss. He had no desire to become actively inter- ested in any occupation, wanting only rest for the remainder of his life. Nevertheless, he made frequent visits to the yard, inquired the amount of its utmnost production, the resources of the leased bailks ;whence the clay was derived, the storage capacity of the sheds, and )y all means endeavored to become thoroughly ac- jquainted with the business. \As the rumors grew weekly thicker and more thick, Mr. Whar- toln, thlough not a nervous man, commenced to feel very much as though he had unwittingly stirred up a hornet's nest. The human hornets, w\hom lie saw working, scowled at him ominously as he went past, and their angry buzz repeatedly reached him. Ile began to be uneasy: Graynan was in New York, but it was easy to perceive that he found time from his many schemes to direc't matters at Stemwell. Nor was it only scowl and threatening   MUTTERINGS OF A STORM.         127 buzz which Mr. Wharton noticed; terms were applied to him of which he could not help hearing. He was informed that he had been denounced as a bloated capitalist, a tyrant without bowels, and such like pet names as are applied to employers. He told himself, and his friends, that there was nothing of which the work- men could complain; they worked only eight hours, and were paid the wages of a full day. As yet they had made no demand; why then should he be thus abused, verbally maltreated? His reflec- tions were true, but they did not much reassure him. He saw Graynan's hand in these things, but in no way experienced greater security from his knowledge of the originator, and determined to go to the city for the winter some weeks before the usual time. The ingredients were. ready, the fires lit, the witches' caldron was bubbling and seething. Before how long would it boil? He had said nothing to the girls of this, but they were not slow to notice that he was worried. Tlhey naturally set it down to anxiety about business, and strove to soothe him; Harriet saying openly that he ought to confide his trouble and take counsel with them, that woman's wit was keener than man's, being able to enter into the intricacies of any matter whatever. She was much disconcerted at the manner in which this application of her theories was received, withdrawing in high dudgeon. Lily tried to alleviate with affectionate care whatever might perplex Mr. Wharton, but from his niece's caresses he shrank as if -unwilling that she should bestow them. It was some days before Lily could bring herself to notice this new trait in her uncle, and then did so only with great reluctance and pain. She could not comprehend that he should shirk her society, refuse her companionship, but she was finally brought; to own the truth of her surmises by his telling her abruptly one day to let him alone and not bother him any more. Deeply wounded, for she was as gentle and clinging as any creep- ing vine, she went to her room and there enjoyed the luxury of a good cry. But she was not the girl to long indulge in 'such an effusion. Wiping her eyes, she reflected that if her uncle disliked her for the moment, it must be because she had unintentionally offended him. She resolved to discover wherein lay her fault, and so atone for it with kindness and docility that he could not but for- give her. Eliza, after her wont, took small interest in the internal economy of the house; she was too much occupied with church concerns to     128         LOSING TO WIN. give attention to domestic affairs. Her father might have been far more worried than he was, before she could withdraw her mind from the absorbing topic of whether or not there should be seven candles lighted during afternoon service. Mr. Benly, or "Father," as she always called him when no scoffers were near, Nwas an assiduously devoted follower, and it was a subject of gos- sip witl the old maids of the neighborhood that his views upon the celibacy of the clergy had undergone a change. Eliza received his attentions very demurely; saying, when joked upon them, that they had no meaning, and were only such as mnight properly pass )tctweel a spiritual adviser and his most intimate friend, be she youngt or old. Allingtorn was a constant visitor, the acquaintance having ripened into an intimacy. He was attentive to all three girls, managing to h)e with Lily oftener than with the others, but so skilfully was the frequency brought about that none noticed it. Lily liked him---liked him very much. She admired his talent, his cultivation, the excellent use he made of all his faculties, and was quickly coming to like him more. She had read of love, talked of it, dreamIed of it, and iInagined herself in love-as what girl has not?-but was so inexperienced, so totally unaccustomed to pro- found feeling, that she ran great danger of making the mistake which has wrecked many lives-confounding a friendly liking \ith the stronger passion. Exhorted to do something and not waste his days in idleness- which he was very well inclined to do-Allington had commenced a drtaa, scenes of which he brought over when completed to read aloud for comment and praise, more generally the latter. I-e hadl tlmoost entirely severed his connection with the Globular, writingr for it nothilng beyond an occasional editorial or book review. Lazincs s uwas really the cause of this, though he spoke of the play as his reason and excuse. As the warm, enervating September days waned before flicker- ing into the bracing weather of October, his drama increased in length. Lily encouraged its progress, believing fervently in the moral obligation of work; and, as he desired to please her, the piece came in for the benefit of her advice. So it happened that a day was fixed for the reading of the first two acts. Coming in the afternoon, Allington found the girls assembled   MUTTERINGS OF A STORM.         129 upon the piazza, engaged with some fancy work, and with them Mr. Benly, paying his court to Eliza. "You do. not object to having Fa-Mr. Benly as'an additional auditor?"Eliza asked. "Certainly not," was the quiet answer. "I expected a femi- nine audience." Mr. Benly was too unsuspicious of evil to perceive the thrust, but Eliza colored angrily on his behalf, while Harriet laughed out- right, and even Lily smiled. Eliza determined to repay Mr. Alling- ton speedily. He opened the roll of manuscript and began, but had not read more than half-a-dozen lines before there came a scream from Eliza. "Oh, the horrid thing! Take it away, do; please, do." Five minutes of confusion and Mr. Benly to the rescue. Eliza had felt a daddy-longlegs on her neck, and, though it could not be found, was convinced that it must be somewhere about her dress. Allington recommenced, and had gone a little farther than on the previous occasion, when Eliza jumped up, declaring that the daddy-longlegs must be found, or she should die. Much rustling of dresses and another ineffectual search. When quiet was once more restored and Eliza had taken her seat, Harriet leaned over to whisper viciously in her ear: ( If you interrupt again, I'll pinch you." This was a threat not to be despised, and so Eliza kept com- paratively still, only shaking out her skirts, asking for passages to be re-read, and inquiring as to the plot, which continually escaped her mind. She was indeed revenging Allington's mild satire upon her friend. Though inwardly blaspheming and consigning her to unpleasant places, the badgered author Was outwardly so cool, took all the annoying interruptions in so good part, that Lily con- ceived a high opinion of his forbearance. His behavior had the further effect of silencing Eliza, she thinking that it was impossi- ble to disturb his serenity. As for Mr. Benly, the cause of the collision, he listened placidly; his finger-tips joined, his head inclined to one side, and a triturated smile upon his thin lips. He looked as benignant as a plaster angel, never altering his sweet composure save to cross himself frequently during the recital of a scene of passion where many ejaculations were used-an action 6*     130         LOSING TO WI N. in which he was followed by Eliza, pari passu. At length Alling- ton closed his manuscript, saying that he would read the rest anotlher time. They begged him to go on, Eliza joining her entreaties from very shame, hut he was obdurate. Further entreaty was put an end to by Mr. Benly observing callv': "4 Perhaps it is as well, for I judge that piece to be one hardly destined to inculcate the best of sentiments." "Sir," said Allington sternly, seizing the first opportunity to vent his irritation. "( Explain yourself, if you please." The latter phrase awas a mere hollow mockery, being much more of a threat than invitation. In that light Mr. Benly evidently considered it, for lie replied humbly' : "H-I Heant no disparagement, I assure you; but I do not approve of thleatrical performances in general." "No," said Harriet, contemptuously. "Mr. Benly approves of tlhose theatrical performances only in which he takes part." AllingItoi's lip curled as he rose to leave, too much out of humor to stay longer. Eliza's face flushed, and she was about to make a rejoinder when Allington cut it short by his an revoir and went along the path to llis uncle's, glad to be gone since Eliza would now abuse him and Harriet and Lily defend him, and, according to mental laws, like him the better for so doing. -ITr. Benly shortly took his departure, which was not unlikely accelerated hby the circumnstance that Harriet snubbed him severely and consistently. No sooner was he out of ear-shot than a battle royal ensued. "I declare, Eliza," exclaimed Harriet, " you're a mean, hateful thing to spoil our pleasure. It was abominable in you to prevent Mr. Allincgton firm reading his play. If I were the oldest daugh- ter I would try to be ci'vil to people when they come here." "I don't care," said Eliza defiantly, bridling like a bantam. "M'r. Allington, for all he comes here so much, had no right to insult Mr. Benly." ( He didn't." "He did. He laughed at him, and at me, too; and I won't ' polite to people that scoff at religion. He is a rude, unbelieving ou must surely be mistaken there, Eliza," said Lily gently. "Y \ou must surely be mlistaken there, Eliza," said Lily gently.   MUTTERINGS OF A STORM.         131 "'I am certain that Mr. Allington is one of the last persons in the world ,to scoff at religion, were it only from politeness. But he could not help smiling at your manner of-excuse me if I say it- ostentatiously crossing yourself." "Yes," cried Eliza; becoming personal after the manner of her sex; " you think that whatever Mr. Allington does or says is just perfect." Lily blushed, and Eliza's taunt was so far effective that she made no answer. "Well," said Harriet, sturdily coming to the rescue, "I like Mr. Allington very much. He is a polished, agreeable gentleman. At any rate, he is a great deal better than a singing and dancing umbrella-case like that stupid Mr.,Benly. He can't talk about anything but candles and petticoats." "Mr. Benly has not as many artificial traits as your worldly friend, but he is very devout and learned in ecclesiastical matters. If he is not as polished, he has the superior advantage of being perfectly natural." "Yes; he is natural, very natural. In fact, a perfect natural," Harriet retorted jeeringly. "You must not talk of himrr so," cried Eliza. "I will. I'll call him just what names I choose. I wish he'd come snooping around me as he does around you. I'd like no- thing better than to give him a lesson, and let him know what I think of him." "You're a wicked, wicked girl, to speak that way of a clergy- man," cried Eliza energetically. "There is no good in discussing either of them," said Lily, to stop the altercation, for tears were appearing in Eliza's eyes and her face was painfully red.!"Come, Harriet, let us see if we can find some flowers for the tea-table." Leaving Eliza, to think more than ever that she was a bitterly persecuted martyr, the two girls went into the garden. They walked slowly, gathering a flower here and there. Harriet put her arm around her cousin's waist, but Lily did not follow her 'example, having a kind of nervous distaste for the customary cas- ual endearments, besides being too self-contained for such exhibi- tions of feminine fondness. "I think Mr. Allington is real nice," said Harriet. "He is-one of the best talkers I have ever met, and then he knows so much." 'i     132         LOSING TO rWIN. "-Ye'," Lily said thoughtfully. "He does certainly know much about every phase of life. Sometimes I cannot but think that he 1knows\VS toO I1U1chl." "Nonsense," exclaimed Harriet in her decided way. "How is it nonsence for a man to know too much?" "It is not possible if he see thiniigs in the right spirit; but it some- times. see-ns to ne that in looking upon vice and evil with merely conltmla'l:mtiexc eyes one could not but be influenced by the sight. If the eyes b)e turned upon them with disgust, then I suppose one would be un, I armled." "You are getting too deep for me, Lily; I cannot follow you into the analysis of character you are so fond of making. It is enough for me if a man be as pleasant and entertaining as Mr. kIlli'gton." "Iie is indeed very plecasantt; I ami acquainted with no one w'hose socicty I should prefer for an hour or two more than his. }Iult, (tid( you ever notice, Harriet, when we speak of religion or of an-thinl- better than the life which Nwe daily lead, how he shirks thc subject or glicles over it with some smooth words? And it is tlch salCe \\with the aesthltic part of literature or art. There appears to be something lacking in hill, something which I cannot put into wrds nor even explain to myself, but which I never fail to experi- enc(e wlhen with him. It jars upon me, although, as I have said, I catnnot distinguish it with a name. And yet, I may be doing him ait iljustice hby the thought." I- tcrc'l more as if Lily were thinking aloud than sustaining her share ot a co\ crs ltionl, this \was so foreign to Harriet's usual train of iddcts, tihat sloe gave it small heed; following her own bent too p)ersistently to be easily diverted. I)id!yot hear what papa said this morning about going to the city?" "No ; \\what was it?" "We w-ere tallking together, and he told me that he thought we should go) to town for the winter about the end of this month." aI i an so sorry. Do you think that he meant it?"Lily asked, stoppinc short in her wallk. I believe that he is afraid there may be trouble at the brick-yard, and wants to have us out of the Nway." "Why should there be any trouble?" "I have not the slightest idea, but everybody seems to expect   MUTTERINGS OF A STORM.         133 something of that kind shortly. What will poor Mr. Allington do, when we are gone?" she continued, changing her tone with the subject. "He will have no place then where he can go morning, noon, and night, and be sure of finding at least one of three charm- ing young ladies to talk to." "He will find it very lonely, living in that large house with no companion but his uncle." s- Very; I wouldn't change places with him." "He has the consciousness of knowing that he is doing a noble deed in giving up the best time of his life to the wishes of an old man." "Noble fiddlestick. Don't you know that Mr. Denton has made him his heir? He'll get a good return for whatever he gives up now." "Still, the renunciation is none the less fine, and I admire him for it." "There you go again with your high-flown notions. Mr. Alling- ton is not the man, I fancy, to do anything to 'his disadvantage without very good reasons for it, or, to give up anything without being sure of getting more in return. When he casts his bread on the water, he will do so expecting it to come back cake." Lily smiled and shook'her head, adhering to her belief that Allington's rejection of what she supposed to have been his former full, rich existence for the present meagre one, was an act of noble  self-denial. At the same time, the gentleman about whom these young ladies thought so Inuch, was walking in his uncle's garden, smok- ing and pondering. He was trying to ascertain just what were his feelings in regard to Lily Vevere, and what he should do about them. He was certain that he liked her more than any woman he had ever seen, and knew well that this germ of love would develop into passion, did he allow it unrestrained growth. But he was not the man to permit a desire to reach its culmination before determining if he could satisfy it. Accident had made him ac- quainted with Mr. Wharton's plan of soon leaving Stemwell, and had also shown him a method by which that gentleman could be induced to act as Allington shduld wish, did he find it necessary t') exert the power. "There is little time left," he thought, strolling aimlessly about, his hands clasped behind his back. "I must not deceive myself about Lily. She likes me as a friend, but I doubt if she has evei -.^ r        - v o     134         LOSING TO WIN. considered me in another light. I am, glad that idiot was so spite- ful this afternoon, for Lily must have defended me after I .had gone. It is a pity the old man does not stay here longer. If Archimedes had but known it, he possessed his lever in one short word--time. NWith time I could do anything-win Lily's love in the correct, respectable manner. 1 should surely succeed: I can sayI that w'ithout anlity'; there is no one to compete with me. But in the city it will be different. She will not have been there a month  before her train will he numbered by the dozen. Well, I must do the best I can. Should I be unable to obtain herlove in the ortho- tdox way-but no; by Jove! that would never do-to be refused first, and then exercise my power. It might be better to bring that forward in the first place. I must think it over carefully. At all events, I'll run down to the city to-morrow and look up the details." NWith this, he turned towards the house, throwing away his cigar. It lay behind him in the path, blinking as though in rivalry of the stars albove.   CHAPTER XVII. JAKE ON DECK. TAKE'S ghost had furnished fine material for talk. In regard to J it, as in every other matter which arises in the country for dis- cussion, the population of Stemwell divided itself into two classes; one holding to the theory that the visitant was really from the land of spirits, and the other contending as stoutly that the ghost was but the result of too much apple-jack. Each held to its own opinion, and long-winded arguments continued for many days in stores, taverns and tenement-houses. The ghost-seer himself was firmly of the opinion that he had witnessed a vision, but was altogether of too utilitarian a cast to imagine that it appeared for the purposes of effecting any change in his habits. "It's a warning for you to reform, Jake," saidhis wife, a thin, dyspeptic woman, whose only comfort in life was derived from the Methodist weekly "shouts." "Not a bit of it," replied the unrepentant one.  "If he'd a-wanted me ter leave off apple-jack, he'd a-come to me wen I hadn't been drinkin', an' would 'a told me so. 'Sides, I warn't tight; only a little set up." ' But who was it a ghost of?" she demanded with a woman's persistence, bent upon getting the answer for which she had wor- ried Jake day and night since the Harvest Home. "I ain't a-goin' to tell yer, now, once for all; so you may as well quit askin'. If you talk to me again about it, I'll lam you. " His wife knew by experience what kind of a process " lam- ming " was, and so for the present prudently held her tongue. Her questioning was merely postponed to those dread watches of the night when man is powerless and woman triumphant. She silently                          "  "      I36         LOSING TO WIN. bided her time, knowing by intuition the power of midnight lec- tures, and feeling certain that Jake must succumb in the long run. ITh'c Xvillage, likewise avoided mention if it, for the reason that the ghost was now forgotten in the greater interest attaching to the )bricl-yard. So much of the Stemwell trade was dependent upon) its condition of prosperity or the reverse, that the rumored strike was a matter of wide concern. Not understanding in the least w-hat it was which the laborers wanted, the village still sym- pathized heartily with them and unsparingly condemned Mr. Whar- toTl. Jake was the only one who stood up for him, but the advo- cacvy w\as of small value since he was considered to have been htriDed to support the enemy. His energetic denials were of no avail; lhis storl of the five-dollar bill given him immediately after the 'war, was brought up against him as proof out of his own mou th. His words found favor only with a limited band of cronies who remembered with delight the spree which that luckygreen- b)ack had furnished them-for the share of it given his wife had been taken back the next day. I3clieving the laborers to be in the right, the village was set agog with excitement by the appearance of this poster, stuck up liberally in all consplicuous places: "ABORERS ON DECK! ASSERT YOUR RIGHTS.-DOWN WITH CAPITALISTS- A GRAND MEETING WILL BE HELD AT 3'LO Il"S I14LL, THU-RSDA Y EVENIZNG, COLONEL GOGGINGS, SECTION 219 OF THE INTERNATIONALS, xVILL DELIVER A SPEECH ON THE S I X-HOUR L AW. Othe- Eminent Ol-tors will Address the Audienzce. *L-'7fIfBRICKMAKERS ESPECIALLY INVITED E Throughout the day, knots of men and women were congre- (;ated aroun ( the placard-s, wondering about the meeting and con- jecturing what might be its results. A few avowed ignorance of the Internationals; to them it was explained that they composed a society formed to give laborers everything, including the luxuries, now possessed by the rich; having for its sole object the elevation   JAKE ON DECK.          I37 of the working classes-meaning by that manual workers only--to the positions occupied by those of accumulated wealth. It was remembered that Goggings was a native of Stemwell, and old far- mers shook their heads distrustingly when, reading his name, they recalled what an irreclaimable scamp he had always been. They could not but doubt a trace of roguery in whatever he might be connected with. But to the greater part of the present residents, and to nearly all the laborers, Gogglngs was known as a man who had been very instrumental in securing a higher rate of wages for a day's work, and next in successfully agitating for a reduction of that day's work to eight hours. He was now ostensibly engaged in efforts to reduce the legal day to six hours, telling all who spoke to him that he' must ulti- mately succeed.. He had delivered various speeches up and down the river, but intended to produce his greatest effort at Stemwell, not only because it held one of the largest brick-yards, but also on account of certain negotiations entered into between him and Mr. Homer Graynan. Although secretary of the Amalgamated Brick- makers, and consequently able to have them move as he wished, Goggings was too shrewd not to see that he would have the whole force of public opinion against him and his cause were the men to strike without previous agitation. The six-hour idea suited him exactly; for the laborers it was a logical deduction from the eight- hour law and could be advanced with precisely the same arguments. As to the employers-or " bosses " as he styled them, using the old Dutch word-the demand would be sufficiently preposterous to secure an instant refusal. The strike would then ensue. With these thoughts, he had come to Stemwell, engaged the hall and issued his posters. The { other eminent speakers " formed an amiable fiction. On the evening of the meeting, as the building was rapidly fill- ing with townspeople, and laborers turning out in full force; Jake with his hands in his pockets, which were Suspiciously bulging,' sauntered into the bar-room which was the favorite resort of hirn- self and his half-dozen intimates. "Goin' to be on deck to-night, Jake?" inquired one. "You bet," was his reply. "Ain't you fellers a-goin'?" "I guess not; what's the use? I don't care nothin' about it." "You just come along with me, an' we'll have some fun," said - -  Jake slyly with a winking leer, , - Zi     138         LOSING TO WIN. His remark and manner secured their attention immediately; they turned towards him. \Whlat yer goin' to do?" was asked as with one voice. "I'll tell ver. You know that Miss Snit, don't yer-Denton's housekeeper. She goes in fur women's votin' an' all that sort o' thitg. Now, I heard that she's to make a speech to-night-an' I a-roin, to hear her. I've got some nice rotten eggs here-ain't none of 'em been laid less'n two weeks, an' they're so'thin' awful to smell of. Durn her, I'll show her wot I think o' wimmin's votin'." Jake hated all innovations with a true conservative hatred, and his ire was especially aroused at any member of the sex to which his wife belonged claiming equality with him. And his hate of Miss Slit was not on abstract principles alone, but partly because she had several times complained to Mr. Denton of his bilbulous propensities, and done her best to prevent his obtaining employment upon the place. "You'd better be careful," said a cautious one, "or you'll get into trouble.' - Who's afraid?" demanded Jake. "I ain't. I fit into the \\illerness under Gen'ral Grant, an' that's where I lost my leg. 'Sides, you fellers 'll be along." Jake's invitation to participate in his sport was accepted with alacrity, and in a short time they were inside the hall. They worked a passage nearly halfway to the stage, where they stood with an open window directly behind them, so that their retreat might not be cut off were they obliged to execute what used to be called in war times a retrograde movement. The hall was full; crowded to its utmost capacity with people jammed together as closely as sardines in a box. The most of the audience was masculine; men of large build, brawny and tall, replete with strength and animal vitality. If their mental organ- ization h1ad but corresponded with their physical, it would have been a sight to rejoice at; as it was, there was something painful in observing them. Many countenances bore an expression of good-lhumored indifference which showed the owners to be of a kind easily swayel, easily led, and having to a high degree their superlative virtue-class fidelity. There is a pitiful aspect to the manner in which men such as these stand by their leaders-mostly detmagogues of the basest kind; obeying them implicity, contribut-   JAKE ON DECK.          139 ing liberally to their support, upholding them blindly through good and evil. They look with suspicion upon those of a different state, accepting as Messiahs men who delude them with false promises and lead them astray with empty words. Here and there was a dangerous face; a scowling face, sullen with sodden bru- tality, which, if it should ever have the opportunity to look fully upon an object of its resentment or dislike, would do so with eyes to blight. But few women were present, the places of those desirous to enter being usurped by their lords and masters; of these few nearly all bore babes in their arms; their thin, careworn faces looked as though expectant of an instantaneous millennium. They could hardly understand what the fuss and stir were about, but in some dim fashion imagined that they were to be immensely benefited by the meeting; that fuel and clothes would be cheaper, the household work easier, the children less of a care, and that per- haps their husbands even might be improved. Shortly after eight o'clock a stir was visible among the select men on the platform, better dressed than the audience by reason of being clad in their Sunday suits of shiny black. and the extem- porized chairman, coming forward, presented " the renowned ora- tor and distinguished friend of the laboring man, Colonel Gog- gings." Received with an attentive silence, which was broken only by the shuffling movements and subdued coughing with which a crowd always settles itself to listen, the distinguished friend of the labor- ing man cleared his throat and began his speech. He commenced by a vigorous denunciation of capital, saying that without dis- cussing the expediency of any immediate revolutionary efforts, he would give an analysis of the abstract rights of labor and capital. The latter was nothing but the product of labor; land and raw material were not property after any defensible law until labor had been applied, and then only to the extent that it had been applied. In legalizing interest upon money which represents part of labor, we admit the fallacy that the labor of past years is more valuable than the labor of to-day, insomuch that the former has the right to gather to itself some of the product of the latter. Wages were bribes and subsidies. The idea of profit is inseparable from the idea of compelling somebody else to produce for our advantage. Wages accumulate in arithmetical, capital in goemetrical pro-     "O         LOSING T( WIN. portion. IBut it is said that the capitalist would not allow his property to )e used \-without receiving' interest. He will be glad to dto so it he canllnot otherwise preserve it. The theory of profits suggests th it although I may not take the whole of another's pro- duclt by supc-riror force, I Inay take a part of it by guile, by duplicity, and by intellectual suTperiority. Bankers and merchants, specu- la:tors in the product of otlhers' laDor, are enabled by our class laws t, iplundect th!e wealtfh of society after it has been created by hard w(ork. T'hieving officials lay by a few millions out of the treasury andt1 are (dtclt with as malefactors. A merchant, banker or land- lIcrd ltays asidd an equal amount from the results of the general inddustry and1 it is all riglt. Really he has made society just as mIuCll p)oorItr a;s the othllr ro)bber. On these points, sophistical enough to (deceive his auditors, Mr. ogings dlcscanted( at length ; iterating and reiterating his prin- citpal ar-unellnt that I)rofits were a robbery of the laborer; that ovc:'ll1(1 al aove liS \\wages he was clearly entitled to a share in the elnhanced value of the raw material, and that the capitalist gen- cr llv wNas a d lespoilcr of the working-man. DescendlingII from these broad statements to particulars, the orator proceeded to urge upon his hearers the advantage of a Six- Hour League ; comb)ining, as he said, to enforce their rights. He did not state by what special right they were to work no longer than that short space of tinhe, but after the mnanner of his school, assumed the statement of his major premise to be its proof. Nor did thet aulitcnce fail to think him perfectly logical; their untrained intellects lhavin1g no -er- clear notion of reasoning. Mr. Goggings continu(ed for soine time, givingl an account, highly rose-colored, of the success he had(L elsewhere met with in forming his Six-Hour League, pressing it upon them as the panacea for every evil, real or iagia;t1ilryl, wlich thley were then enduring. He was repeatedlly cheered, and with much ability contrived to \work up) quite an anmount of factitious enthusiasmn. At the end of his addrlltsss h,.: introduced a series of resolutions. They were to tlhe cf-fcct tlhat six hlours should be declared a legal day's labor by tle StcatC an(d byD the United States, for the reasons that shortening the hours of labor was needed to check over-production; men would bt lbette'r elinployed ; it was needed to benefit the working- mana; he required Imore timne for social and domestic enjoyment and intellectual culture -e; that reduced hours were in accord with   JAKE ON DECK.          I41 the spirit of the time; it was the fashion in some trades and should be in all; that improvements in machinery had so increased pro- duction that long hours were not demanded; one could now do with modern appliances more in six hours than he could have done years ago in eight hours; the extra two hours was useless drudg- ery; and that finally they wanted the change and would have it. Upon putting the resolutions they were carried with that una- nimity observable in crowds where the minority is strongly in favor of a proposition and the majority indifferent. It was then announced that on the following day rolls would be circulated to receive the names of all who were desirous of joining the Six- Hour League; the workmen being urged to complete their organ- ization at once, "for great events were at hand." With this pregnant prediction-closed the first part of the meet- ing. Mr. Goggings was too well acquainted with his audience to officially recognize the women agitators; for if there be one class ultra-obstinate against female suffrage it is the laboring class. So, having finished with his speech and all that concerned himself, he merely requested their attention for "a lady who would address them upon topics of general interest." This done, he vanished with his followers, leaving the small stage deserted. The audience looked at each other with an inquisitive grin, wondering who this "A lady " might be, and what topics she con- sidered of general interest. The spectacle of a woman speaking in public was one of decided novelty. Their first sentiment was' hostile, but they remained passive, waiting to see and hear the new orator. Jake nudged his comrades persistently in the ribs and pre- pared for action, getting his eggs ready and looking around to see if his way of retreat remained open. In a few moments Miss Snit appeared upon the stage, dressed in black, without the slightest bashfulness, but evidently very proud of her prominent position. Tall and spare, her not unpleasant fea- tures were fashioned into the likeness of a judicially severe look; her eye grave and stern, her mouth pursed with determination and thin lips ; her attitude, like her opinions, unbending. With a stately step she advanced to the front, carrying in her hand a roll of paper tied with blue ribbon, slightly inclined her head, and coin- menced in an even though rather harsh voice, "Fellow citizens." The sound dispelled the rapt attention with which her entrance S^n     "2         LOSING TO WIN. had been regarded and her looks noted. The audience coughed, shuffled its feet, and leaning back arranged itself to listen, as did Jake and his friends; the former ready to open hostilities and only awaiting the utterance of an objectionable doctrine. He knew well enough the set of suffrage-seekers to which Miss Snit belonged, to )e aware that he would not have long to wait. Nor did he. From opening with a glorification of the rapidly extending spirit of liberalism which allowed a woman to lift up her voice before men, Miss Snit proceeded to touch upon the voting question. For half an hour she dilated upon this subject, bringing forward the stock arguments and disposing of objections with flippant free- dom. Indeed, as presented by her, they were not in the least diffi- cilt to dispose of, to settle even. St. Paul, of course, came in for his share of verbal battery, that unlucky apostle being the pet bane of the strong-minded sisterhood. This was listened to earnestly. The audience seemed to not always comprehend her, particularly when she indulged in prophetic bursts of the time lwhen women should be as good as men and a little better; but was inclined to hear her through. Jake's fingers were itching to make use of his laboriously procured eggs, but as vet 1he dlrst not. His face grew longer and more despondent as he saw the hearers placidly imbibing her words. All at once, how- ever, his face brightened as though a bonfire in the interior of his head had burst into a blaze. The remark which elicited Jake's ebullition of joy was this: "And- now, having considered the political needs of woman, let me glance at the new social movement." Every one who has attended a female suffrage meeting knows to what such words are an exor- dium. It seems impossible for most women speakers to avoid cer- tain topics which men usually consider unfit for public discussion. They apparently rejoice in showing with how much off-hand cool- ness they can argue upon the sanctity of marriage or the mainte- nance of the family organization. Miss Snit was one of these, and her doctrines those slhared by the most advanced thinkers. On this occasion she urged the abolition of marriage. As the larger numb r of her hearers were Irish Catholics, this was hardly prudent; it could not have been expected that they would sit quiet under reasoning to abolish any sacrament, most of all the one whiich she attacked. So soon as the drift of her speech became patent, a ho\w-l arose from them, heartily joined in by the   JAKE ON DECK.           143 Protestants. The angry feeling was everywhere prominent, and some stood up on the benches to harangue theirf ellows. High above their voices rose her shrill tones: "The old monogamic system of social life is a ailure; it has had its day, and must and will be succeeded by something higher, truer, nobler; something more in accordance with the demands of nature. There is scarcely anything left now but the name of mar- riage,. so loose is the system of divorce becoming, when parties are left as free to unmarry as to marry; and that point is almost reached. The old idea of marriage is dead past hope of resurrection-" Now was Jake's opportunity. Selecting an egg and taking careful aim, he flung it at the discomfited speaker. The objec- tionable missile struck her full upon the breast, and broke, scattering over her a thin greenish-yellow fluid and an extremely unsavory odor. Miss Snit screamed and started back, the audience laughed deri- sively, hooting and cat-calling. Jake grinned delight at his success and distributing his ammunition amongst his party, kept up a lively tire until it was exhausted. Their victim dodged about the stage trying to escape the odoriferous shower; her dress stained/'streaked, and smelling most abominably-for the eggs more than answered Jake's anticipations; her voice at intervals heard above the storm in interjectional words: ' Cowards-villains-a new silk dress- freedom of speech-three dollars a yard-divorce." Despite this unseemly treatment she might have attempted. resuming her preaching, had not several excited men leaped upon the stage. Scenting danger, Miss Snit vanished like a spectacular demon, running out the back door. The audience continued to manifest its disapproval of her doc- trines by breaking the benches and damaging the interior of the building, until the janitor turned off the gas, when they were forced to leave. Jake was in a state of high glee, and celebrated the triumph of his happy thought in providing the eggs until he was in a fit condition to have furnished Miss Snit with a brilliant ex- ample of the inferiority of man. ,      CHAPTER XVIII. THE WOUND REOPENED. M  R. GOGGINGS belonged to that class of energetic individuals who when once embarked upon a certain train of action drive it forward at express speed. The morning after the meeting, while the village was still discussing it without -coming to any sat- isfactory conclusion, he went to the brick-yard and held a long con- versation with one of the hands whom he summoned from work; a man called Mike. Mike was of large proportions, rejoicing in that superb physical development often found amongst those whose lives havre been devoted to manual labor when the frame is neither bowed by premature exhaustion nor debilitated by insuffi- cient nourishment. Six feet in height, his shoulders were of cor- responding breadth. Looked at from behind, seeing the fine upright figure, the muscles of the back and loins showing well through the thin shirt, the narrow hips, and straight, tapering legs, one would have considered him a natural Agamemnon, a predesn tined leader of men. When he turned, revealing his face, it was as if he were another Gwynplain; the heavy jaws, the long mouth with too full lower and too thin upper lip, the fat sensual nose, the high, square cheek-bones, the small retiring eyes, retiring as though hiding beneath the jutting eyebrows, and the sloping forehead- formed a complement to his body no less distasteful than inappro- priate. In repose, his -positions, being unstrained and natural, were worthy of a sculptor's attention; in action-save when carried beyond himself by passion-his movements were -sluggish, slouch- ing and awkward, as if the sun were a policeman's lantern whose light he wished to avoid. The labor reformer was a fair judge of men, and after talking with Mike, said to himself that he had discovered an admirable first lieutenant, and protnptly appointed him such oh the spot. * ( See here, now," he said, producing a roll of paper with a   aIll4       THE WOUND REOPENED.          145 printed heading.' "I want you to get the names of all the men on this to join the SixrHour League. When you bring me the paper I'll give you ten cents for every name on it. Do you think that they will sign?" Ad   - "Faith, they won't refuse more'n once," replied Mike with a ;-]X  grin of suspicious amiability. "Whiniver I want a thing, I've a mighty takin' way of askin'." - H"Well," and Goggings smiled at seeing the wisdom of his ;   choice thus speedily vindicated. "You can easily obtain the sig- :natures in an hour or two. Then, I think it would be advisable for a deputation of the hands to go to Wharton's and tell him what you want." ; X    4"What do you think he'll do?" X  *   a"Oh, refuse, of course." "Then what's the good o' going there?" - XH"{ Oh, a great deal. It would be absurd to strike before having j X   made a demand. We must have something to appeal to the pub- lic about, and show them that all, is fair and above-board. You Uknow that the style is now to conduct matters very politely until a ; strike has commenced; then-however, there is no use in discuss- ing that at present. When Wharton has refused, you must tell 1,    him that you are sorry his obstinacy will force on a strike and entail much suffering-do not forget that phrase-entail much suffering on innocent women and children. That sort of talk X  always gets into the papers and sounds well for the moderation @  of the working-man. Tell him, also, that you are sure he will re- consider his answer, and you will therefore give him two weeks in which to reflect. Then withdraw quietly and come back to work. Be respectful, and don't let there be the slightest disturbance." I see," said Mike, thoughtfully. "We're poor innocint fel- lers wantin' our rights, an' he's a hard-hearted capitalist that don't .care for women or children." "Exactly," said Goggings, laughing. "You understand it. These confounded newspapers print everything about us, so we've got to be careful how it's managed. Do not forget to be very civil, but firm". "I'll do it. When are you coming here again?" "In about two weeks." "When will we strike?" I can't tell about that yet. I know a newspaper editor, and     "6        LOSING TO WIN. I'll see if he won't send a reporter and have affairs here written up first-rate. The strike will depend upon circumstances, for of course it must come off when the works are busiest." Their talk was carried on for some time, Mike receiving mi- nute instructions as to what to say and how to say it when heading the laborers' deputation. While this was going on the meeting of the previous evening was bringing forth its fruits in another manner hardly so agreeable to one of the gatherers. After breakfast, when Allington was strolling idly over the lawn in front' of the house, he saw Jake stumping up the road, evidently in high exultation, for he stopped every few steps to chuckle and rub his hands. "What has made you so happy this morning, Jake?" asked Paul, as he drew nearer. "I hope you have not been drinking already." "I'll tell you, Mister Pole,"-said Jake, absolutely beaming with delight, his customary philosophy preventing any notice of the dero- gatory insinuation contained in the last sentence. "You heard about that meetin' las' night, didn't yer?"' "I heard that there was to be one at the village, advocating a law to make a day's labor only six hours, or some such non- sense."  4 "Well, I was there, an' if we didn't have the durndest time you ever see. "You had a hand in it, I suppose," "Well," said Jake slowly, his head on one side, with the air of a man admitting a doubtful proposition, "I won't deny but wot I had so'thin' to do with it, especially wen it come to the rot- ten-egg business. You see, 1 can't stan'- " "The- rotten-egg business," interrupted Allington, wondering to what Jake was referring. "What the deuce do you mean by that?" "Wy, Miss Snit, wen she come to speak 'bout women's rights an' that there oughtn't to be no more marryin'-some o' the boys just up and'pelted her." "My uncle's housekeeper at such a meeting, uttering such language?"Allington knit his forehead. "Tell me all about it, Jake."  Thus encouraged, JTake sat down on a rustic bench, crossed   ,i, ,     THE WOUND REOPENED.         147 his leg over its wooden counterpart, filled his mouth with a mass of tobacco, and began with perennial enjoyment his narration of the evening's event. X:!:"You know, it was on the bills that Mister Goggins and other eminent speakers would address the meetin'. I don't think much o' that Goggins-he's a beat, he is. He got up, an' talked an' talked away, tellin' them fellers that they'd oughter have everything they wanted, an' that the rich men was frauds-that they hadn't no business to be rich, an' that their money oughter be taken away from 'em. That's a pretty way to talk, ain't it? I'd like ter know who'd give fit-dollar bills to fellers that fit into the war under Gin'ral Grant." H   "Never mind that," said Paul, not caring to have Jake's story diluted by reference to his martial exploits. "Go on about Miss Snit." "Well," the relator continued, visibly disappointed, but bright- ening by degrees as the reminiscences came back to him. "Wen he got through, the eminent speakers was Miss Snit. She come out on the stage all dressedcup as fine as you ever see an' a-lookin' as if she thought she run the whole world. I w as there with some fellers, an' they happened to have a lot o' rotten eggs handy in their pockets, kind o' accidental, in case they might be wanted,   you know." Allington smiled so significantly that Jake went on rapidly to avoid inconvenient questions. "It's all nice 'nough for wimmin to be wimmin, but if they're a-goin' ter act like men,T'll be durned if they oughtn't to be treated like men. Well, as I's sayin', she got up and commenced talkin' jus' as cheeky as if she's a Congressman. Lordy! You'd oughter heard her. She talked about wimmin's votin', an' then commenced about marryin'. Wy, she's a regular free-lover, right out an' out; an ole thing like her that a man wouldn't look at if he could help it. I've seen them free-lovers, an' there ain't none of 'em fit for a scarecrow. She kep' on talkin' that way, and she got real inde- cent. Then the Micks begin to howl, an' some feller flung a negg at her; good shot it was too. Took her right in front and busted all over her. I tell yer, it was a caution to see her jump an' the yaller stuff a-runnin' down her dress." He paused to laugh heartily. Ail     "8         LOSING TO WIN. (4 So good a shot, Jake, could have been made only by a man who fit into the war." "Well, now," apologetically, "I can't stan' that sort o' talk, Blister Pole, an' I won't. Just think o' that sassy thing sayin' that there oughtn't to be no marryin'--"Words failed him to pro- perly express his contemptuous disgust. "How did it end?" "Then the eggs come a-flyin' pretty thick, an' at last she up an' run aw-ay. By gosh, I ain't laughed so much since I ben born." He gave free vent to his merriment, while Paul remained silent, thinlking, thlat his uncle must be at once informed of the housekeeper's celebration of herself. Then his mind turned to the brick-yard, for whatever concerned Mr. Wharton must necessarily affect the family, and was consequently of interest to him. "Did you hear anything about a strike?" "There's a good many o' them brick-yard fellers blowin' roun' an' sayin' that they'll work ony six hours a day. The way Gog- gins talked to 'emn last night, I shouldn't wonder if there's a strike before long, an' I)erhaps a little row with it, too. You see, he just waltzed right into any man that's got money, called 'erm cussed tyrants an' leeches an' all that sort o' thing. Now, if I's you, Mis- ter Pole, I'd just tell Mr. Wharton to keep his eyes open, an' if they say anytiling, tell 'em to go to thunder." "Your advice may be good, Jake, but I doubt its practica- bility," said Allington, turning to enter the house that he might communicate his information to Mr. Denton. "Sa-ay, Mister Pole?" asked Jake hesitatingly. "Well?" "I al'ers heard that fellers was paid for bringing news." He made this statement doubtfully, as though distrusting with what degree of comprehension the broad hint might be received. "You think that your news deserves payment?" "That's about it. It ain't no joke to stan' in a crowd for nigh onto two hours an' listen to that talk." "I'll tell you what I'll do, Jake," said Allington, to whom the remark afforded an opening which he was quite willing to avail himself of. "If I give you something every week, will you come to nmc first with whatevcr you learn or hear about the brick-yard-   THE WOUND REOPENED.          I49 whether there is to be a strike, who gets it up, and, in fact, every- thing you can find out?" "Yes, sir-ee. Just try me an' see." The bargain was made, and with this understanding they sepa- rated ; Paul going upon the piazza, and Jake stumping towards the village, richer by several dollars than when he had left it. Paul found his uncle in his usual place, the place where he passed every morning, sitting in an easy chair and gazing steadily upon the river; watching in mournful silence the waves dimpling or rolling, as though vainly interrogating them for the secret of his lost son. There seemed to be for him a mysterious attraction in thus looking upon the water: for hours would he remain per- fectly passive, leaning back, his cheek supported on a hand, his eyes sadly fastened upon the stream hurrying past in ever-ceas- less flow and reflow. No need to ask what were his thoughts; no discernment was required to guess the subject of his contem- plation. The saddened eye, the melancholy drooping of the cor- ners of his mouth, the relaxed muscles of his face-all showed plainly that his mind was still dwelling upon that night when with wild and bitter words he and his son had parted, parted forever as it happened; that he was musing over the past, dreaming of the ghastly burden found upon the river, and, perhaps-who knows?- reproaching himself for not having exhibited more of the self- restraint which is one of age's most valuable possessions, the. command of feeling which comes only with time, and which, com- ing with time, should be highly prized nor ever relaxed. It was this mood which Allington dreaded, was really afraid of. He was fearful lest this continual brooding might result in some aberration of intellect, lest the constant incubation might bring forth an ungainly brood to yet more shadow with darkening wings the life that was already so gloomy, so devoid of cheerful- ne ss. Allington had' set himself as one of the duties which he assumed in assuming this new life with his uncle, the task of arousing the old man from those morbid reveries so often as he might fall into them. For this reason he welcomed whatever offered itself in the way of distraction, and often cudgelled his brains to originate or find some subject which should arouse his uncle, causing him to shake off his clinging recollections as a Newfoundland shakes off -. *  water. ,;nt     150         LOSING TO WIN. Hc (drlc u1, a chair and sat thy Mr. Denton's side ; selected a cigar and lit it. "I hl(ardly i xi icted to find any very energetic reformers in this ncighborhoodl, particularly under the same roof with me." "\-hat do you mlean, Paul?" asked Mr. Denton, puzzled as- well lIe llig:-ht be at the purport of such an enigmatical remark. "Are vou aw-are that your housekeeper, Miss Snit I think is the latlelt atltln maiden is her station, is one of the strong-minded?" "I have unlerstood that she believes in some folly of that kind, but confines herself to writing pseuldonymous letters to silly papers. Of course I should not allow her to sign her name, dating from there." "It will p)robla bly interest you then to know that at a meeting in the villagoe Il:st ni-lht she made a violent free-love speech." "What?" cried the old man nwith the display of greater energy tha:I l1ic had maniftstled fo(r a long, time. Pl ul rI-e)eated his :assertion. "T'he rlvil sdit d(ir!" Mr. Denton scowled. ("I'll inquire into tlis at on)ce." Raisin g his voice, he called his body-servant, and upIon the man's aIp)lptarance despatched him with orders to sum- monI Miss Siit immllllediately. Ini a few momenI ts the housekeeper presented herself. Her countetallcllc bore no trace of' the indignities to wh'ich she had been suljcctCed ; })ut, hlowever slhe ha;d striv-en. to eradicate it, a very per- cepDbitle odlor of sulDhulrettedl Ilydrogcn clung about her person v'.it}h , ffcinsivce sltf-ltssertion. Sh}e apIDroached Mr. Denton with a eltetk %visalge, quite opposedl to her ordinary expression of compla- cet-t stlf-est c nem, and stood before him with folded hands. "\ IWht is this I hear, Miss Snit?" began Mr. Denton abruptly, his for}ehctad corrugated with the deep lines of a heavy frown, and soc lr faorlrctting Ilis politeness as to speak roughly. "What is this I lhear aDbout your intlking a speech last night?" ' I)idn't I hav-e the ri-lght to mnake a speech if I wanted to?" she asked, raising her head defiantly, the meek expression vanishing. Yes," was the grin answer; " and you have the right to pack vour trunk and lctave the house inmmediately, if in what I am told ther e 11e no mistake. I)id you make a speech?" "Yes," more defiantly. Paul judged that she was preparing for hostilities )by dropplinig the "sir." I understand that it was in favor of free love."   THE WOUND REOPENED.          151 "That would be the title applied to it by those who had not yet freed themselves from the trammels of the present social phrase- ology," she replied, falling readily into the oratorical form. "That will do; you can go at once. I will have no such peo- ple in my house." Miss Snit hesitated a moment, whether to sound a feminine war-whoop, or beg retention i. her valuable place. The recollection of her numerous pickings and small profits decided her wavering mind. { I hope, Mr. Denton," she said respectfully, " that you will not turn a poor, friendless woman out upon the world without any notice. After having served you so long, and, I hope I can say, so well- " "Not another word," interrupted the old man. "Pack your trunk and leave. If you are not gone in half an hour I'll have you put off the grounds. This is no place for hussies like you." He waved his hand, and again fastened his eyes upon the river, as dismissingo the matter fronm further consideration. ,But lhe was not to be so easily rid of his housekeeper. Seeing her hope of remaining destroyed, Miss Snit picked up the gauntlet. ( Yes," she exclaimed with as near an approach to scorn as she could accomplish. "; That's right; turn me off, eimploy brute force against a weak woman. That is consistent with your being a man.' You're every one of you tyrants, and I despise and defy you all." Paul smliled, and Mr. Denton, enwrapped in his own thoughts, seemled to have already forgotten her existence. Miss Snit grew more vociferous. "If I have slaved and toiled for you for years, that's nothing now you want to be rid of me-just like a man's gratitude. I'll expose you in the women papers and tell the world how selfish you are, until you'll be ashamed of yourself if you have any shame left. I'll-" "Come, come," said Paul, interrupting in his turn. "Stop this and go." She turned upon him. "Oh, you're master here now, are you? I think I'd wait until dead men's shoes were empty before stepping into them. It will be a nice thing to inherit all this property, won't it? And then to remember that you owe it all to that old man "-pointing to Mr. Denton--"that you wheedled and wound round your finger. I     152         LOSING TO WIN. know why you pretend to be so precious soft and good and kind and gentle "-dwelling on each adjective with accumulating sar- casm-i" it will be worth your while when he's dead; gone to look for poor George, that he murdered just as surely as though he had put a knife into him " This was too much for endurance. A low groan issuing from his lips, iMr. Denton's head sank forward upon his breast. Livid with rage, Paul sprang to his feet, seized the housekeeper by the shoulder and pushed her through the open window into the library. "It' you dare say another word, I'll kill you," he whispered hoarsely. The passion in his face daunted her. Silent and scared she extricate( he-rself foiom his convulsive grip, and fled to her own Patul conmposed his features and returned to his uncle. "Leave ine, Paul, leave me," said the old man brokenly. "Settle with that Nwoman, and let me not sec her again."   CHAPTER XIX. AT THE THEATRIE. IN the course of the forenoon the deputation of brick-yard labor- ers, headed by Mike, waited upon Mr. Wharton. According to the instructions of Goggings; the former individual had industriously scoured the brick-yard with his list and had succeeded in placing upon it the name of nearly every man there employed. None durst openly refuse, and Mike did not press the matter upon those evading immediate signing, knowing that they would be unable to resist longer than two or three days the example of their comrades, the persuasions of their friends, and, more than these combined, the influence of the centripetal tendency which is so strong with men of limited education. Also in accordance with Goggings' instructions was the demeanor of the deputation. Comprising about a dozen men, it walked quietly up to Mr. Wharton's house and halted on the road in front, while Mike ascended the steps and rang the bell When the proprietor appeared, their demands were stated ir s ober, respectful language, and the resolutions passed at the meet. ing read to him. Mr. Wharton listened to them with well-feignec surprise, refused the request as Goggings had predicted, remained utterly unmoved at the contemplation of the suffering women ant children, and so the deputation departed as it had come; the major part of it understanding nothing of the proceeding excep that half a day's work had been lost for which wages would b{ correspondingly'docked. Mike himself was not much wiser, Gog gings not being in the habit of sharing ulterior views with hi lieutenants, but reflected that one move had been made in advance though to what purpose he could not see, and thought with comrn placency of the money represented by the names he had obtained Mr. Wharton, although presenting to the laborers a calm ant impassive front, was in reality worried to no slight degree by thi *.S      '   ^"     154        iLOSING TO WIN. demonstration. It had been all very well to talk with his friend Graynan about gettingl up a strike, to act by that friend's advice and view\ with satisfaction the prospect of a large and sudden profit upon his investment. A nearer sight was not so agreeable; it gave him unpleasant qualms. Looking upon the faces of these I     men, seeing their unintelligent, uneducated countenances, blank as tow and like it ready to burst into swift combustion were the light once applied, he acknowledged ruefully to himself that he twas travelling upon a dangerous road. The laborers might take it into their heads to perform the gramlmatical feat of changing the noun strike into an active verb ; such things had happened before, and llig-ht again. He wished that Graynan were at hand that he could consult with him and beconme reassured, but the eminent speculator -was at present in New York, where he expected to remain seve-ral weeks. Naturally nervous and timid, made still more so by continually dwelling upon the Six-Hour meeting and the deputation, his trouble was increased when, a day or two after, Paul Allington informed him of Jake's warning in somewhat different language from that used by the disabled veteran. 'T'ils decided Mr. Wharton to return to the city for the winter and close the house at Stemwell, notwithstanding that it was now only about the end of September and a full month before his usual time of departure. Communicating this determination to the girls, he was surprised to find it meet with no objection. Jane and Harriet were more than willing to go at once; the one because country life was growing monotonous and she wished for the city's gayety, and the other for the frankly avowed reason, "I've no one to talk to. Eliza has Father Benly dangling around her all the time, and Lily has Mr. Allingto-n-the only man in Stemwell worth looking at. So there is nobody left for me." Lily did see a great deal of Paul Allington. He had obtained a footing of such intimacy in the family, that his presence in the social circle was no longer considered as even an addition, but rather as quite in accordance with the course of nature. His atten- tions Xwere graduated as carefully as his superior tact enabled him to measure them out, for he could not nor did he wish to help Lily being the recipient of the greatest share. Flattered by this seeking of her society in'preference to that of older and, as she modestly imagined, more interesting people, it was yet not without   ' A ,           ' AT THE THEATRE.          155 a certain dread.. While under the influence of Allington's keen conversation, bright and cold as moonlight, she was affected by the charm, but the false note in this pastoral symphony jarred painfully. So long as his talk was confined to books or travel she went with him, pleased with the companionship; if it ventured higher, the creaking of the machinery by which the wings of his theatrical ideal were moved sounded loud and discordant. Her character had developed rapidly within the last two months-since meeting him. Allington's was a nature to widen those with which it came into contact, to expand them as flowers expand in a heated room. When feelings are brought forth, unpacked, aired as it were, they can never again be restored to their former confined quarters, but of necessity require a larger space for their accom- modation. And so it was with Lily. The mere fact of exercising her mental qualities, had made her mind to grow and broaden with thein. She could not but notice that Allington distinguished her with his regard above her cousins; had she been oblivious of this she would have learned it through Eliza's somewhat spiteful comments upon her monopolizing him-as she styled it-and Harriet's good- humored jests and laughing inquiries as to whether he had yet proposed. Lily considered that the idlest of idle talk. Never thinking of him in any other light but that of a friend, she was not of the kind to put on factitious spectacles with which to regard every man who approached her. She liked him very much-that was all. But of late his manner when addressing her had seemed more deferential, his tones to soften and be more tender, his eyes to look upon her with a light she had not hitherto noticed in them, his words to be more adapted to what would most please her. This might be but fancy, or it might be that she had never previ- ously-so closely observed him. It awakened- no answering con- sciousness in her; rather a restless, uneasy sensation, prompting her to]eave him. Still, she was not introspective enough to reason 5. ' 4 upon his changed manner, if changed it were, or to ascribe it to any passion for herself; it but made her vaguely nervous and dis- trustful of being alone with him. Mingled with the unformed desire to be rid of attentions which ':,  at times disturbed her, was the wish for the city's amusements. : :^i. This was to be her first winter in society, She naturally looked forward to it with all a young girl's pleasant anticipation of the     I 56        LOSING TO WIN. enjoyment to be derived firom balls, parties and opera. Brought up in such secludedl fashion as she had been, having led a quiet, conventional life so far, she expected much delight from her first season. Fond of motion, of dancing with the accompaniment of music and the perfume of flowers, it seemed the more agreeable to her that she knew nothing of parties by experience. Her knowledge of them being derived from 1novels, they presented to her a very rose-coloret appearance. Now and then the idea of meeting many p)ople, of being introduced right and left, niade her a little nervous; but this shadow was quickly driven away by the shine of the con- comitant pleasure. IeCting, with such realdy assent to his proposition, Mr. Whar- ton hurried on the preparations for departure. These were but few in number. Like most Americans possessing both town and country houses, he kept the two establishments entirely distinct, each hav- ing its own outfit, so the only articles requiring packing were those which were strictly personal. The chang ng of residences was effected with scarcely more than half a dozen hours' work. The ser-vants being sent on belfore, Mr. Wharton and the girls were enabled to take the train early in the afternoon and reach the house in Madison Avenue in ample time to dress for dinner at the usual ]lour. Two or three days sufficed to comfortably settle them in the routine of their different life. Thanks to a sudden freak on thy part of the stleet-cleaning contractor their quarter of the city was comparatively free from the noxious odors which generally greet the nostrils of the returning traveller, and the transition from the pure country air was not disagreeably noticeable. It is very easy to resume a former manner of existence, when the mind has un- dercone no violent upheaval, and before a week had passed the' girls were pursuing their avocations as though they had never been even interrlupted. Several days were consumed in the essential duty of leaving cards promiscuously on friends, acquaintances, and people with no other claim to the pasteboard recognition than that their names were found written in the visiting-book. Lily was taken by her cousins wherever they called. She was quite surprised by the style of conversation indulged in, for though accustomed to the talk of Eliza and Harriet, she had dimly imagined that at formal visits something better was spoken of than rumored engagements   AT THE THEATRE.          157 or the latest fashions. She ascribed it to her ignorance of society, and endeavored to the best of her ability to become like unto those to whomgshe was presented. But she did not succeed very well. It was a droll sight for Harriet to watch Lily's pretty, puz- zled face, as she tried to follow the intricacies of a long discussion between Eliza and some lady whether Bob Blank would really marry the girl to whom he was engaged or whether the affair was only a Newport flirtation. - I declare, Lily," Harriet would say, laughing, when they were again in the carriage,; " when anything is talked about you look as solemnly concerned as though your life depended upon. being interested." 'Practising on the piano and reading stupidly good 'French books-moral French books are always stupid-to retain her pro- ficiency in that language, used up Lily's mornings. Then came luncheon, and then the routine of calling or shopping, to finish with a drive in the Park and so home to dinner. As it was too early for the balls and parties, Lily had plenty of time in which to think of Allington, at moments regretting his absence, and at others glad that it dissipated the filmy shadow which floated with him at Stemwell. Eliza had discovered a church where services were performed in the most exaggerated ritualistic style, and rejoiced in the friend- ship of its clergyman, who was currently reported to wear a hair- cloth shirt and never to eat upon Wednesday or Friday-a rumor which installed him high in favor with the young women of his congregation. The only thing wanting to complete his celebrity was a quarrel with the bishop and a threat of suspension. As these soon came he was at once hailed as a martyr, and exalted to the very pinnacle of feminine favor. "Father "Benly seemed totally forgotten; he never wore a hair-cloth shirt and was too timid to resist his bishop, so he was deposed from Eliza's spiritual throne, and "' Father "Joles reigned in his stead. "I'd have a man with a little better name if I were you," said Harriet. "How can he help his name?" answered Eliza. "It is one of the many crosses which he bears with true, humility." Harriet sniffed contemptuously, but forbore to say much about itlest her sister might retaliate by invidious comments upon a young gentleman who was accustomed to call assiduously three     I5S         LOSING TO WIN. or four times every week, and whom she ruled with a rod of iron. 5Ir. Cray Rolmn abominated his name, but as a fortune had come to him with each word he managed to endure the affliction very tolerantly. Though Harriet invariably declared that she would have none of him, he paid his devoirs to her with unvarying persistency, being beyondl doubt the most humble lover ever owned by woman. She sho\-wed her appreciation of his abject submissiveness by goverrning hiim Nwith a strictness to which the laws of the Spartans were a jocose hint. If he faltered or hesitated in trying to suppress the details of an escapade, he was soundly lectured for his wicked- ness and dism-issed until he could behave so that he need not be ashamed( to tealk to ladies. The next night he would present himself with lenglthened visage and vows of reform so earnest that he w\,as allow\ed to enjoy Harriet's society unrebuked. By these means she had reduced the poor fellow to almost leading the life oft an allchorite. The only point onl which he made a decided stand was smoking. This he would not relinquish, and Harriet was too sargacious to raise a direct issue, though she rarely omit- ted an opplortunity to take him to task ior his indulgence in that vicious hab)it. It was generally believed that some engagement existed be- tween theim, despite Harriet's voluble denials. Roln, when ques- tioned on the subject, would shake his head dolefully and sigh, "No stuch luck." But society, while pretending to individually believe thel a, ac-rrega'tely refused them credence, saying illogically that if theiy \were nIlt encga-ed they ought to be and therefore must be. Rollnl was allowed to visit on the most intimate terms, and whenever ITarriet appeared in public he was sure to be not far ofl; so that, after all, society was correct to a certain extent. He imade no secret that he wanted nothing more than an opportunity of proving how thorough was that mockery which called the hus- band lord and master, and Harriet, on her side, while not denying thailt shle liked him for a friend-using the phrase which in a wonman's hatnd is so often a whip of nettles-assured him placidly that she was bS no means confident of his 'devotion, but that he migrht remain, as it were, with a view to promotion. Lily had heard of, Mr. Cray Rolmn, of what an obedient, docile slave he was, and was quite interested to see him; Harriet having taken the fancy that he should not visit Stemwell. She told him   AT THE THEATRE.          -59 that he should have the summer to do as he pleased, and though he remonstrated, there was no alternative but for him to obey. He came the night after their return, and Lily saw a good- looking young fellow of some four or five and twenty, hardly dis- tinguishable from the average man except by his slightly stouter build, long, flossy straw-colored moustache, elaborately parted light hair, and conspicuously faultless dress--two matters on which Harriet held him to strict account. Lily talked only long enough to avoid discourtesy and then escaped into the back parlor to leave him and Harriet alone. Amusing herself at Lhe piano, playing bits of airs, she could not but catch occasional fragments of the cate- chism to which Amorosus was subjected, such as, "Did you bet much?" "Not a cent; 'pon my word."    "And you drank - nothing?" "Only cobblers and three glasses of champagne-I couldn't help that, really." Here Lily thumped away at Tam O'Shanter lest more should reach her ears. She desisted when summoned by Harriet to join them. It appeared that Mr. Rolm wanted the family to use a box at Wal- lack's which he had procured for the next week. The invitation was accepted on condition that Mr. Wharton gave his consent and would chaperon the party. "What is the piece?" asked Lily. "I don't know ;- something good, of couvrse." "Now, Cray," said Harriet, "remember what I told you. If- papa cannot go, don't you give the box to any horrid people, but let it stay empty. If I am unable to have pleasure myself I do not wish others to have it. Anyway, you may come to dinner." Mr. Rolm expressed himself overjoyed with this gracious per- mission and thereupon took his departure. The head of the family did consent; and so on the afternoon of the evening they were going to the theatre, there arrived at the house three handsome bouquets for the Misses Wharton and Miss Vevere. Lily hardly liked accepting even flowers from a man whom she had seen only once, but yielded to Harriet's representations that it was perfectly correct and very customary. Precisely at ten e minutes before dinner-time, Mr. Rolm appeared, and came out quite strong with the presence of others to encourage him, though once in a while Harriet's eye would bring him up .with a round turn, so to speak. When it fastened upon him; he" looked at her nervously as if wondering what he had possibly done wrong, and I                           .     I 60        LOSING TO WIN. would smooth his hair, pull down his vest or settle his collar pre- cipitately.                         r With her usual good nature, Lily, by way of recompense, tried to compensate hiin for Harriet's iron severity, and succeeded so far beyond her expectations that before the conclusion of the meal he directed his conversation to her, unmindful of Harriet's warning glances. "It is too bad that Mr. Rolm should ride upon the box," said Lily when they were in the carriage on their way to the theatre. "Not a bit," said Harriet, shaking out her skirts. "He ought to be *very glad that I don't make him walk, after the way he behaved cluring dinner." "I think him very pleasant indeed," said Lily, opening her eyes. "Ie talks well and has evidently read much. Besides, he is a handsome man." "Handsome is that handsome does," answered Harriet tritely and not very appositely. "Not always," said Eliza. "I am sure that Mr. Allington leads an excellent life at Stemwell, yet I would not call him hand- some. "He is," said Harriet, in the decisive manner in which she usually opposed her sister; "he is extremely handsome. I like hinl ever so much, and only wish he'd been half as attentive to me as he was to Lily. I wouldn't have given him the cold shoulder, I promise you." ( Oh, Harriet!" exclaimed Lily. "How can you talk so? You know that it is not true." A"Indeed I don't. I wish Crazy," the flattering appellation she frequently bestowed upon Mr. Rolm, " were more like him." "Mr. Rolm is as nice as he can be." "Did I say he wasn't? But he's not as nice as Mr. Allington. Is he, papa?" "Eh--what? Did you speak to me, my dear?" asked Mr. Wharton, rousing himself from the corner in which he had been brooding. "Of course I spoke to you. I declare, papa, ever since you bought that abominable brick-yard you are as moody and abstracted as if-as if "-a simile seemed about failing her, but she plunged boldly into the ocean of comparison and emerged with the pearl- "as if you were a weeping willow."   Alpi         APT THE THEATRE.        I6i Mr. Wharton was spared the necessity of replyingto this strik- ing figure by the carriage stopping and Rolm opening the door. The house happened to be well filled that night, although so early in the season, and their box was in such a prominent position that its inmates were in full view of the audience. No sooner had they taken their seats, than they formed a focus upon which were concentrated all the opera-glasses in the building. Lily's beauty was the attraction. It is permissible at a theatre to stare through a lorgnette without being rude, and the examination of her traits was continued for a long time before she noticed it and turned away her head to escape the annoyance. She wondered what could be the matter that she attracted so much attention, and asked Harriet in a whisper if anything were wrong about her hair. Several youths among the audience rushed wildly out into the lobby and invested all their spare cash in the hire of opera-glasses to have a better view of this rare loveliness; but the promising investment proved futile, for Lily held her bouquet to the side of her face, keeping her eyes upon the stage. During the entr'acte, the box was invaded by numerous visitors; all of whom Rolm impartially presented to her. Surrounded by as many men as could squeeze themselves together in her vicinity, the object of complimentary phrases and looks still more compli- mentar3, Lily forgot her discomfiture. and rejoiced plainly in her power of entertaining and being entertained. It was her first social triumph, and her innocent young soul felt all the more keenly the gladness of this glad evening. Interested in the scene, animated by the sense that she was sought after, her eyes sparkled and her face flushed with light-hearted joyousness. When the curtain again rose she turned to the performance from those who would have continued talking. Where they sat it was impossible to avoid looking across the stage behind the scenes, though Lily tried to see only the actors, too unaccustomed to the theatre to wish any illusions dispelled. Looking thus accidentally, she saw a young man standing there, leaning against the painted canvas, gazing at her intently, earnestly. A second look and she remembered having seen him before: it was he who had passed J her in the brick-yard and whom Allington had mentioned as a reporter on the Globular. For the second time their eyes met; for i  the second time their looks crossed; she dressed in full evening i  dress, sitting in the box, radiant with beauty and the consciousness     I62         LOSING TO WIN. of succe qss, sur-rounded by li-lhts and odors of flowers and richer flattery; hie statncliigo in the midst of unreality, in common clothes, enjcircled with ldust and artificial semblances of life. It was a strancre contrast as she cau-ght that look, so earnest and devout- suchl a look as one mighht fix upon a saint. She blushed deeply, for his imaglc-e h al lheen often in her thoughts, and averted her eyes. h-lhcii next she glanced in that direction he was gone, nor did she see hiln again. She resutmed conversation with her new acquaintances, but could not drive friom her mind the recollection of the almost adoring gaze which she had seen in the stranger's eyes. It was continually with her. She conltinLually found herself wondering who he was and whence he came. The memory of him had always been faint alnd dlill ; it seemed natural to see him again amid dust and low liIghts. But the memory was strong'er now; it was with her through the remainder of the play, thro-ugh the subsequent supper at Delmoniico's to which NMr. Whlarton invited them on Harriet's illstigaltioll, aHdd exven accoInpanied her as she went to her room. I fer sletD wa\s dreamless. Whein she awoke the next morn- "I, she recalled the face seen at the theatre, and felt relieved-she k1l\ew (ot wlhv--that it had not visited her in dreamns as it did in wa-kllilnM- hours. If I,ily hadl ever studied psychologry, she would have known tlI,it we th 1atrdly ever dlrealnl of el,bjects Vwhich make a (deel impression uilon us, bult ot tlhose only Nwhose impress is slight and whose ruco-gnition is mnomentary. x,.   CHAPTER XX. A WILD NIGHT. ALLINGTON expected that the departure of the Whartons would make much difference with regard to the agreeability of his life at Stemwell, but endeavored to console himself for the loss by reflecting upon the terms of the bargain with his uncle- for though couched in more delicate language, the arrangement between them had been nothing more or less than a bargain-and the expectation of frequent visits to the city, when he would see them with the increased familiarity obtained by absence. It had been a bargain between him and his uncle, a question of buying and selling; so much money on the one hand, so much com- panionship on the other. The old man needed the society of the younger, his conversation and the magnetic influence of his vitality. For a sum down and promise of inheritance the nephew acceded; sold his freedom, and tried to carry out his share of the agreement to the best of his ability. Through the fiction of affection, thinly at first supported by each, Mr. Denton's heart warmed towards his only near relative, and would have made him in reality what he was in name-a son. Despite his external harshness, he would have delighted in taking Paul to his breast, telling of his griefs and sorrows, of his ever-present harrowing remorse, and ill seeking such comfort as he might obtain from a free review of that rage which had wrecked his life. But Paul was not the one to be made a consoling confidant. Pleasant, courteous, and interesting talker as he was, there. was a certain lack of sympathy about him, a wanting of the finer chords of emotion which respond with answer- ing tone to the touch of sorrow; that effectually repelled Mr. Den- 5,2 ton after several attempts. Paul did the best he could, but that off best was not sufficient, as his uncle recognized with a sigh, with- !%: drawing into himself and repressing what he would fain have dis- j closed. He could find nothing tangible, nothing that could be s A                     -      . ":     164         LOSING TO WIN. put into words, to complain of regarding, his nephew. Paul was attentive, polite, and always cheerful; a man could not be blamed for not )possessing a nature different from the one with which he was actually endowed. Mr. Denton shrank more within himself, like those zo6o)hytes which contract upon touching an unassimilable object, andl, while attached to his nephew, made no further effort towards leaning upon him as a man leans upon a staff. Life was very monotonous in that large almost empty house. Mr. Dlenton never went anywhere, and the only place to which I',ull ]acd been in the habit of going was Mr. Wharton's. When this was ended, existence became very tedious. His uncle rarely stirred from the piazza, breakfasting there whenever the weather allowed it, save to enter the house for dinner and then go imme- dliately to bed. All day long would he sit there, occasionally, but only occasionally, looking at a newspaper or book, his eyes fast- enc(d gupon the river, mute and motionless. Allington sometimes grimly reflected that he was perhaps paying rather dear for his whistle in thus sacrificing his best years for the sake of money, and at times more than half wished himself again in his former position, where, were he only moderately careful, there was no reason why he should not keep himself free from all entanglements, both of debt and of other kinds. But he knew much better than any one coull have told him, how little likely it was that he would keep free from entanglements; he knew how careless and self-indul- gent \was his nature, even when recognizing clearly that self-indul- glence was the \worst course for him to take. He was well aware that no morial principle governed his life; that he refrained from conlmitting exil only because it was inconvenient, and did good only because it came in his way, was no trouble, and involved no sacrifice. Were he to break with his uncle and return to the city he would be joyously received by a select circle--all the names of whose members he might not have cared to mention publicly-and for a few months everything would go as merry as the familiar marriage-bells; though they would hardly ring for such a pious purpose. Then he would become involved in some scrape, most certainly be head over ears in debt, and all the old worry and.. bother would recommence from the beginning. No; at present he was well out of that; he was comfortable and well off; free froin care, and having what he had not had before within the limits of his memory-a superfluity of money. Although life at   I5.          A WILD NIGHT.          165 Stemwell was slow, he would endure it longer-endure it to the end. His uncle could not last forever, and then would come free- dom; the freedom which wealth alone could give. He did not contemplate the contingency of Mr. Denton's death in bald words, but, though counting and dwelling upon it, covered the prospect with a varnish of conventional phrases. Life was monotonous, tedious. After breakfast Allington would walk for the sake of exercise, then work upon his play; ride in the afternoon, and it was the purest pleasure he had ever experienced to bestride a good animal and take a long gallop far into the recesses of Dutchess County. Dining with Mr. Denton, his evenings were solitary. He usually passed them sitting in the library and drinking brandy and water to a moderate extent. This existence, torpid and slothful to a large degree, was condu- cive to stoutness. One morning he noticed with great dismay that he was actually growing fat. This would not do: the idea of losing his present symmetrical shape was unendurable. The horseback rides were lengthened, the early hours discontinued, and work upon the play increased. Originally commenced more as a means of providing occupation for the mornings, and partly -because he was so accustomed to a certain amount of writing every day that doing nothing inspired him with a vague feeling of discomfort; it was progressing well. The piece was a melo-drama, full of exciting situations and start- ling incidents. Allington was attempting to unite absorbing events with correct and elegant language. He was not afraid of being called a sensation writer, seeing no reason why occurrences which happen constantly should not be used for dramatic purposes. It is impossible to glance over a paper without the eye lighting upon records of shooting, stabbing, robbery, murder, and affrays of all kinds; nor has one far to look for the purest romance. A single newspaper will furnish stock in trade for a dozen novelists or ',' playwrights. Recognizing this fact, and having enough mental independence to act upon it, Allington constructed his play out of such material as he found ready to his hand, and was under no ':  necessity to alter or adapt them to any supposititious exigency. Taken in the bare relation to each other and the influences they --!1 . exerted upon the characters he had endowed with vitality, they served his purpose fully in being both exciting and interesting. ?    Unconsciously the play influenced him greatly; this was the * i A     166         LOSING TO WIN. more strange since he was accustomed to analyze his sensations and reason upon the producing causes. Becoming more absorbed as it steadily developed into shape and consistency, his mind gradually assimilated itself to that in which it worked; his fancy was occupied with incidents of violence, of passionate love, of relentless sclf-seeking, of successful intrigue. He had not come, to the triumph of virtue with which all plays should conclude; lhat i, hiducd, lardly thoug-ht of it. Continually thinking of these thlgs, 1)onderingl upon and revolving them almost constantly, tlhey Ce aie to be a normal part of him, and might at some time be his gruidlinl, posts. Had he been in the city, surrounded by the city's multitudinous cares and obligations and sacrifices, whatever he might have thought would have had but small effect upon him. In the country it was different. Seeing little of his uncle, thrown completely upon his own resources; for though there were plenty of nleii)hbors he did not care to associate with them, each being distasteful in some manner; events commonly defined by the adjective sensational took daily stronger hold upon him, acquired daily more thorough control over him. ,bhout this time, with the freshening breezes of Indian summer, old iMr. Denton aroused himself to a slight extent from the lethargy Nw\hich (turing the heats of July and August had appeared to be a mental torpor. He moved with a more nervous energy, his eye sh)one brighter, his voice \was firmer and showed less of the trem- blinlr of at'e. Since the scene consequent upon dismissing his hotusekeeltper, the crueCl stab then given by her angry words had been ever in his mind, making deeper and more poignant the remorseful recollection with which he never ceased to reproach himself. He thought-with a wild desire to put his action in the worst light, as is not uncommon with tlhose who reDent-that he hadndeed murdered his son as truly as though he had struck him with a knife. It was no consolation to remember that the boy had been also excited, angry- and passionate. That gave him no relief. He should have sustained his dignity as a father, better exercised the experience of age by curbing his own temper, by exhibiting self-restraint. If his son by a blind burst of anger had been carried away to treat him disrespectfully, from whom did he inherit his nature? who was responsible for the inefficient training which suffered him to be so swayed by it? \wx}o bvit lihe, the father? Educating his son at board- ing,-school, sending him directly thence to college, then to travel in   A WILD NIGHT.           167 Europe, the boy had not been home mnore than two months when they separated forever. Forever! That word rangin his ears like the sound of a funeral bell.. He shuddered with horror as he again saw before him that fair young body, not yet developed from the slenderness of youth, its face eaten and gnawed by fishes. He thought of it floating down the river, heaving with the action of the tide. Sometimes he mournfully considered that it was strange he could be thus affected by the loss of a lad of whom he in reality knew so little, that he could grieve thus deeply for the absence of one whose whole life had scarcely been more than a pro- longed absence. But it was just this absence which made the grief keener; previously there had always been the knowledge that the telegraph would- summon his son. in an instant; the anticipation of seeing him happy and at home ; but now- Mr. Denton freshened with the breeze. As the brighter color came to the leaves, so did it come to his cheeks. It might be that the approach of cold, crisp weather cheered him with its animating change from the relaxing, enervating warmth of summer, or that the increased amount of electricity in the air infused his veins with newer life. He took more interest in affairs of the day, read the paper instead of allowing it to lie idly upon his knees, and con- versed more fiequently with Paul and at greater length. "Paul," he said one evening after dinner, when the coffee was before them and his nephew was lighting a strong Regalia. "Well, uncle?" "i What is this story I heard some time ago about one of the men seeing a- ghost? Was there anything in it, or was the man intox- icated or crazy?" "More drunk than crazy, I am inclined to think," said Paul, his attention diverted from his cigar, that being in full blast. "You must know the man; it is Jake, whom I used to go fishing with when a boy. He is about the place much, doing odd jobs." "I1 remember him; an idle, good-natured vagabond. Did he say whose ghost it was that he saw?"' asked the old man, hesi- : tatingly, keeping his eyes fixed upon Paul. (-'A "No; he was singularly reticent upon that point. I tried to learn from him, but found it impossible to make him say whom he thought it was. In answer to all inquiries he persisted in saying ^ that if it weire a ghostf, it were better not to mention it, and if he were deceived there was no good in opening old scores."     I68         LOSING TO WIN. There was a silence of a few moments, broken only by Mr. Denton's nervous drumming of his fingers upon the table. "Paul," he at length said abruptly, " do you believe in ghosts?" "Not I." "But is it not possible that spirits might be permitted to visit this earth; that a gracious, loving Providence might allow them to return, to comfort us in our sorrows, to extend to us forgiveness for w-rong, to bid us have increased hope and trust in a future meeting beyond( the grave?" }His voice quavered with suppressed emotion as he spoke. "N No," said Paul, smiling to himself at what he considered the palpalble absurdity of such a question, but humoring his uncle's nood. "I cannot bring myself to think that. What comes after death is a sealed book, sealed so tightly that never yet has mortal read the first syllable of the unknown contents. Life is like the fabled maze; Awe grope amidst its winding alleys, stumbling and losinr our way, seeking for the clue which we never find. We are blind and walkilg in the dark. There may be illumination at the end; there Imay b)e only increased darkness. Who knows? Who shall tell us? No; ddo not put the smallest trust in either ghost or any spirit visitanlts." t lTut there may be such visitants?" said Mr. Denton earnest- ly, iIm)lorinlly even. "Perhaps so," was Paul's soothing answer. "I hope it most devoutly," said his uncle with a heavy sigh. This conversation recalled to Paul the scene at the harvest festival, and he determined to visit Jake to find out if possible tlhe key to the enigmna; at all events, to learn the subject of his vision. iAs he walked leisurely down the road, the fragrant dusk of evening was gatheringl thick and close. A faint gleam still lingered in the westernl horizon, the laggard trace of a splendid flaming sunset, as though loth to leave the spot of tumbled, gleaming radiance. Shadowms clustered clingingly around the trees, lying )benctathl in almost inky b)lackness. Their tops waved slowly to and frlo as the soft windi touched them, and the short trunks looked strange and dl-e'tat'l in the wan light comingr from the moon that shone athmoxc d(iil-. The river was of a turbid angry color; toss- inglr and sxwhil:4 hlrrii(dly, andll glintingr with the sudden flash of Nwhitinect).. ()v2rlic t(t, tlit- sky was covered with light, filmy clouds   -:  'A WILD NIGHT.                     I69 of greyish white, that scudded swiftly, driven by winds unfelt below, racing across the stars as if chased by an unseen pursuer. Faintly came to Allington the muffled hum of distant life, while before him gleamed the numerous small steady lights of a far-off town. "I'd like to see a ghost," he thought, laughing at the conceit; "and examine it with a spectre-scope." Jake's house was soon reached, being about a mile from Mr. Denton's. It stood near the river, at a place consisting almost entirely of made ground, where the water had been filled in by an unlucky railroad company whose projects never reached maturity on account of the entire proceeds from its bonds being pocketed by an adventurer. Near by was the marshy bank of the river, which here, paradoxically, by making a sharp turn produced flats. Coviered with reeds, it was an admirable spot for raising a fine crop of chills and fever, and had Jake possessed any children they would have enjoyed its benefit. Being destitute, however, of those well- springs of pleasure, he was spared the sight of shaking, shivering infants. His wife was too well accustomed to hardships of all kinds to mind the miasma, and Jake himself too toughened by army life for it to have any effect upon him. The house was a corinmon clapboard structure, with a shaky chimney that fluctuated in a high wind like gold during the war; the spare neighboring grass was rough and ragged as the unshorn-chin of its owner, looking not -unlike an eccentric beard of several days' growth. Washing-tubs and pans stood about the plot of ground in an ex- o ceedingly disorganized manner, some dilapidated, and others look- ing as though they would burst their hoops and fly apart; all dirty as patriarchical anchorites. Allington approaching heard a prolonged howl issuing from the door, and distinguished Jake's voice, thick as it usually was at this time of the evening, exclaiming: "Gol durn ye. I'll learn yer not ter do yer work. Gittin' lazy, are ye? I'll learn yer to be lazy." With this there came a sound as of some one vigorously strik- ing his hands together. Allington pushed the door open and entered at once. In the centre of an unpainted, sparsely furnished room, lit by a smoky kerosene lamp, stood Jake's wife. bolt upright and motionless, while her spouse was employed in thrashing her with a leather strap. She offered no resistance, but remained like 8     1 70        LOSING TO WIN. a lamb at the slaughter, contenting herself, also like the lamb, with bleating piteously. At the sight of Allington, Jake flung himself into a hard wooden chair, and his wife sat down quietly upon another. "You should be ashamed of yourselflto strike a woman," said the visitor. "Well, now, Mister Pole," said the culprit, not a whit abashed at being caught engaged in- his unseemly occupation. "That woman's the durndest thing you ever see. How's she expect a feller to live? Wy, there wasn't anything for, me to eat wen I come home to-night. If I don't lick her, she won't work." "That ain't so, Jake," exclaimed his goaded wife, " an' you know it. You'd oughter support me, 'stead of makin' me work my  arms off for you. Wot do you do with all the money- you git? You * just go an' drink, drink, drink, an' I never see a cent of it." "Shut up, now," cried, Jake, aroused to sudden wrath. "I'm a man, an' wot's the use o' bein' a man if you can't have some fun. 'Sides, I fit into the war, an' Gin'ral Grant wouldn't like to see an old- soldier workin' too hard. If the Gov'ment does give me a pension, I guess I deserve it." Allington deemed this a good opportunity to obtain his wished- for information; since Jake's loquacity was evidently in the as- cendant. "Will you please leave us for a while," he said to the long- suffering wife. "I wish to speak with your husband alone." "Git out o' this," was Jake's more effectual remark, which was no sooner heard than obeyed. "* Got her under pooty good trainin', ain't I?" he observed to Allington with chuckles. "Gosh! that's the way them whiffets o' second lieutenants used to boss me around." "Yes," said Paul, taking advantage of the opening. "I should think that she would hardly trouble you much with ques- -tions." "She'd just better try it on," was the ironical reply. I "But did she not want very much to know about that ghost you think you saw?" "Guess she did, till I told her to quit. But, look here, Mister Pole," and Jake's features took on an aggrieved expression. "Don't you go talkin' about the ghost I think I saw. I tell yer I did see it, with my own eyes, an' no mistake."   A WILD NIGHT.           171 "Are you positive?" "Yes, sir-ee. See him jus' as plain as I see you now. He come right up afore me, kinder riz out o' the ground, yer know, an' then as soon as ever I clapped eyes on him he'sunk down again. Then I hollered and run-I tell yer, I's scared." "Who was it?"            ; ! H! "AdWell, I don't like ter tell yer, Mister Pole. It don't seem right." gii   "Nonsense, Jake. If it were a ghost, he cannot hurt you; any way, you could tell me, your old friend." X4 "I kinder don't want to." "- Pshaw! Come, who was it?" X "Well, if you must know-it was Mister George." "Mr. Denton's son? He's dead." XIl   "Yes; been drownded more'n two years. That's wot scairt ::ii  me. I wouldn't 'a cared if it had been the ghost of a live man. :g  You see, he come up so awful sudden that I had ter run; although X  I did fight into the war, I run for it." Xj?    Jake mentioned this last fact with its qualification as though it N/i  were rather a meritorious action than otherwise, and worthy of X i' special commendation. As such Paul recognized it. j It was very natural; but," becoming more serious, "are you X1^  sure that you are not mistaken?" "No, there wasn't no mistake about it. Lord knows, I see "ii I  him often enough when he was livin', not to know him wen he's 1X^'i dead. I had a good square look at him." X ^I   "Did he appear at all different?" i"Not a bit; jus' the same 's ever; good-lookin', han'some fel- ler he was, yer know-but I forget. You never seed him, did "No. By the way, Jake, how much had you been drinking that night?" "Not much," was the slow answer. "As much as usual?" Xtiiiil [r "I hadn't more'n a few drinks aboard," said Jake, reluctantly. "But you needn't think it was that made me see the ghost. If 'tad 'a been snakes, ther'd 'a been some reason in it." Paul did not trouble himself to extract the meaning from this sentence, for, like many of the classic authors, Jake was accus- tomed to freely avail himself of that poetic privilege known as     172         LOSING TO WIN. elision ; but rose to depart. On the outside of the house he found Jake's wife, waiting until she should be summoned, sitting on a wash-tub like Patience with a change of base. "I hope your husband did not hurt you much," he said kindly, stopping. "Oh, Lordly," she replied with a short laugh, " he can't hurt me; there ain't no more pith in his arm than there is in a fishin'- pole. I holier like fun, but it don't amount to anything." Retracing his steps, Alling'ton found that nature had changed to a inort soin)bre mood. The sky was black, black as an inverted Avernian pit, and the only lights visible were those of the distant city, shiining with redouDled lustre. The breeze had died away, to be succccde( by a dense calm, almost oppressive in its stillness cut through by the rasping cries of shrill-voiced insects of the iIlht. The trees were motionless; they stood silent, as though with 1"owc(d heads and folded arms waiting for sentence. At times the whole surface of the sky was quickened into a mass of glowing coppery depths, lurid with iridescent shades of pallid hue, by a huge shieet of heat-lightning which would seem to suddenly cxi)and and(1 then againl contract into invisibility. Evidently a st)rn was brewinig somewhere in the recesses of the hills; per- haps the gnomes of Cro' Nest were preparing another cataclysm to rive and rend that riven mass of granite. Reachng homne, Allington went to the library, lit a cigar, mixed a glass of brandy and w\atel, and taking a book, bestowed himself to pass the evening as usual. The atmosphere grew denser; it became closer and more clinging. The swift sharp glart of the lilghtning shot momentarily into the apartment, flood- ing all with its strange, unearthly brilliancy, and making the coun- t ry e-,cn tlerougl t h te \indows to look wild and fierce. Once in a w\llile caIlie a low, ruln1bling growl of threatening thunder' hardly louder than if it were indeed the rolling of the mysterious tenpin balls anlong the Kaatskills. Then the solemn silence was un- broken save by the strident cries that grew sharper and more dis- tinct uponl listenitlg. Paul laid dlown his book; he could not read. It was extremely curious that Jake should have seen, or rather--Paul corrected him- self with a smilC--tlave thought that he saw the ghost of George Denton, and have told him of it immediately after that conversa- tion with his uncle about spirits returning to the earth. By what-   A WILD NIGHT.          173 ever stretch he put upon his imagination hecould not account for, much less explain the coincidence. It was excessively odd: the more he thought of it, the more it puzzled him, that two men, so diametrically apart in every characteristic, should have both con- versed with him that evening upon the dead son. To be sure, he had introduced the topic with Jake; but then he had not the remotest idea that -the soldier's ghost was the same so ardently desired a sight of by Mr. Denton-for that he had his son in his mind while speaking could not be doubted. Paul thought it over for some time, but could reach no conclusion. There might seem something in it to a man inclined to superstition; but with him- nonsense! The clock struck eleven; a broad sheet of blasting, withering light blazed into the room, bathing the apartment in a flood of ghastly color, and a crackling rattle of thunder echoed and re- echoed above, dying away slowly. A strong wind sprang from the east, chill and free, swept over the country with a shriek of delight at newly acquired release, and pounced upon the light, carrying it away in upward spirally curving curls, leaving Paul in darkness. At the same moment, above the cry of the wind, piercing it with keen note, rose shrill and clear the words, "My son! my son!" Paul ran up the stairs and saw his uncle, half undressed, grop- ing aimlessly about the upper hall, the door of his bed-room open, his features contorted and drawn, crying wildly, "My son, my son, come back to me!" Another glance showed him to be asleep. Taking him gently by the hand, Paul led him to his room. Here the old man 'sat down upon the bed, wringing his hands in a pitiful way. "Yes, yes, I murdered him. Murdered him as surely as though I had struck him with a knife-God forgive me! O   George, George, come back to me: come and say that you pardon me for your cruel death, so young, so bright. It was I who was wrong: I who was at fault. Look down upon me; tell me that 'my son's blood no longer rises up against me. Come back to me, George; my son, come back!" The words came from him swiftly, without pause or rest, as if he were but repeating a formula long ago committed to memory. They burst from  his heart like waters breaking down the dam which has held in check their pent-up force. : :;- :? 1     274         LOSING TO WIN. Paul endeavored to soothe, to quiet without awakening him, and finally so far succeeded that he lay upon the bed covered with a counterpane, with eyes now closed, but still continuing an Uneasy, wNncrging motion of the hands. I our after hour Paul watched there, watched the restless neovillng fingers of the dreaming old man until the faint grey dawn cric)t in through the windows; hour after hour he at intervals hear-d the same refrain, proceeding from dry lips shrivelled with ag-, the voice rising and falling in weird unison with the wind that shriekl;ed and wailed around the house: "My son, my son, come back to me." :J   CHAPTER XXI. FRANK'S SUPPER. ALTHOU(H "Little Silva " had been at first embarrassed by being brought so unexpectedly in contact with the artist, Frank Sturdy, a, woman to whom she had been introduced for' the sole purpose of protection and assistance; yet the kindly influ- ence of Grains' friend, her delicate reception and the hearty good- will displayed soon won the poor girl's heart completely. The artist was acquainted with more of her story than could have been confided to Tommy, gentle and kind as he was; it had been list- ened to with a sympathy and an interest to which Silva had been a stranger since leaving her country home. The hard solitary life she had so long struggled- against, made but the more solitary by the presence of her infant, seemed to fade gradually away from her like a dissolving view, transforming into a quiet peaceful existence, unutterably dear by contrast with the former feverish state. It was such a time since she had known what it was to be blessed by r the feeling regard of one of her own sex, that she could not find words in which to express her gratitude. Accustomed to associate with those who were'tightly wrapped up in themselves (and con- sequently as entertaining objects as though they were "packed" in a water-cure establishment), it was difficult to believe that Frank could have for her a to:ally disinterested attachment. Poor child! She was so used to be with people who treated her with the half-contemptuous, slighting indifference manifested by reformers towards those who do not thoroughly believe in them, or with men who regarded her with sentiments of which she durst not attempt a closer inspection, that pure generous sympathy came to her, in the beautiful words of Scripture, like rain on a barren and thirsty land. After her first long conversation with Frank, when she had sobbed out her bitter experience, her sad, sad folly, with' its disastrous ending, the subject had not been again alluded to by     176         LOSING TO WIN. either. A new lifet- commnenced d; ; the clouds were broken, the dis- tant blue could be seen, a few faint rays of sunlight were creeping towards her to warm and reanimate. She was fortunate enough to obtain rooms immediately ad- jacent those occupied by Frank, which had been so expeditiously vacated by their previous tenant that the furniture, which it woulld have )been impossible for even the most ingenious evader of rent to ha1ve secreted about his person, remained behind him. Sp;alre and much worn as this was, it was amply sufficient for tcr sinall needs, and, on the representations of Frank, who ne'v( r in her darkest hours had been behind with her rent, was obtained fromn the landlord at a small valuation. A"I'd throw it in for nothing,"  he said in response to Frank's application, " but what Title quack doctors and painters I've had a pretty hard time of it this year." ore Silva soon settled down to a life more regular and far brightler than \when she had been living alone or with the reform- ers. Grains restored the work he had been doing for her upon the iadtrtar, and this brouglht in sufficient grist to prevent the upper (sand nether millstones from wearing themselves away by attrition. Her soft-eyed countenance was again seen in news- paper offices, for with renewed health came also renewed ability; and in the course of a few weeks she was in receipt of an income which served to well support her simple mode of living. She gave no reason for her long absence from the neighborhood of Nassau Street and the City-Hall Park, beyond saying that she had been ill. Few from a casual look at her modest face would have suspected -what a vast chancge had operated upon her. Those knowing her better could perceive that behind the impas- sive waxen mask there lurked some secret, but they were cer- tain of nothing, and her reserved manner was an effectual shield against inopportune Cquestions. None suspected that there was such a bcii as her child. Her child! She pronounced the syllables to herself with a half-startled air, as though she could never grow accustomed to them. as though to her ear they would alwhvays sound strange and unfamiliar. And they did. It wras wonderful that the mite of flesh, so real and yet so new that it sometimes appeared a for- eign kind of animal, lying there in its little crib, could be a part of her; that her blood was flowing in its veins; that from her   ::;:t -FRANK'S SUPPER.                    1" heart it derived its life, its sustenance. It was very odd to notice the wandering eyes roving about the room or gazing earnestly at the blank walls ; to see the workings of the little mouth,+ to feel the feeble groping of the chubby; dimpled hands, to have them pushingly erring over her features as she knelt beside the babe. She looked at him with a sort of awe; to contemplate the infant filled her with amazement. Was it possible that it would one day become a man, that these eyes would shine with love or hate, that these hands' would grasp with firm grip, that the mouth would utter words, talk, speak as she spoke, be elo- quent perhaps? That particle become a man! It was scarcely credible. Silva hardly took much delight in playing with the child--she was afraid. It seemed so fragile that she distrusted herself, doubting. lest she might injure it in some occult manner which would be known only by its fruits. -She would move the crib close to the table at which she wrote, and would work thus, when, becoming absorbed in what she was doing, the baby would be forgotten until he recalled himself to her attention with a cry. Then the pen would be dropped, and her efforts devoted to amusing the small tyrant, who, young as he was, already knew his power. Naturally, work done under these circumstances was not of the best, nor had enough of her old animal spirits returned to suffuse her writing, with its former sparkle and point; still it was creditable, and met with favorable appreciation. It was curious, but she did not often think of the child's father Whether it was because her murdered passion 1ad been so transi- tory that it had not had time to sink permanently into her mind, or whether because she possessed the faculty of so losing herself in the present as to forget the past-were difficult to determine. When she did think of him it was more with a leaden hatred than with any violent emotion: a stolid contempt for his baseness or impassive scorn for his specious wickedness so possessed her that when his image came to her it came but as an overthrown Baal, the head of gold hidden and the feet of clay exposed, to be passed by with avertef eyes. The time had gone for ineffectual curses, empty wishes, which from a weak woman were so miserably futile. Yet while desiring for him the bitterest punishment here and here- after, she would have taken no steps to insure the successful falling of that punishment, but contented herself with leaving it to the threefold Fates and unforgetting Furies. She saw now how much 8,     178         LOSING TO ,WIN. she also was to blame, how she was herself responsible for the evil which had come upon her. She did not humor herself, nor palliate her errors in the least, but strove to expiate them. Tom- my's words of courage recurred to her often, repeating themselves with cheering sound and animating her ever with hope of forgive- ness for the past, of mercy for the future. She and Frank saw each other almost constantly. They had discovered and opened an old door between her sitting-room and the artist's studio-or workshop, as she called it. Silva frequently moved her table to a place near the entrance when Frank wished the baby for a model to study from. On such occasions little writing was clone; Silva passing most of her time in admiring the proportions of her child as, undressed, he rolled and tumbled upon a rtlg, rejoicing in unrestrained movement, and the release from clothes so clear to all children. Frank would survey him with a critical eye, and pretend to discover faults in his figure, for the mere sake of hearing Silva's eager protest against the idea that her boy was not the most perfect in the world. "No," said Frank one day, assuming an air of seriousness. "You must be aware that there are other babies as perfect and as good as he." ( Ah," said Silva, with a loving glance towards the lump of sprawling humanity, "you should remember that he is all 1 have, and that he is very, very dear to me." Frank laid down her tool, and going to Silva, kissed her gently on the forehead. ("I know it, Iny dear, and often think of it. You cannot ima- gine, Silva, how glad I am to see you contented, settled quietly and workingh peacefully, after your storm and shipwreck. I cannot thank Tommy Grains enough for bringing you here." "s Nor can I thank you enough, kind, dear friend, for your sym- pathy, for the consolation you unhesitatingly extended to me. No, do not shake your head, do not draw away your hand, I cannot kiss it more times than I have blessed it for being extended to me so freely." Tears rose to her eyes as she recalled the first time she had visited these rooms; tears coming the more readily that this was the sole reference to their conversation which she had ever made. "I I did for you what I would have done for any suffering friend," said Frank, simply.   FRANK S SUPPER.          79 ?  "  ( But none whom you could have assisted more kindly, none to whom help could be more grateful. You and my child--my only m* ,- b friends." Frank thought this a good opportunity to introduce a subject she had long wished to mention. "And-and his'father?" "Do not speak to me of him," cried Silva. "I wish never to see or hear of him again. Would to God that I never had seen him. I try to forgive him, but I am not yet good enough for that. I can sometimes forget him. The recollection of the hor- rible time when I was afflicted with that infatuation seems to me like the memory of a nightmare dream. I have awakened now, and could almost believe it to be but a dream were it not for my child. But the father I can drive from my mind-and I will. Though I cannot bless, I can refrain from cursing; and I strive so to do, but it is often very hard when I think what misery and ruin he brought upon me. The past I shut my eyes upon; the future I cannot see; the present alone concerns me, and in that present I know that I have your forgiveness for my sin against womanhood, and, I humbly trust, God's forgiveness for my sin against Hiim." Her head sank, her voice lowered reverentially in uttering these last words, as though she were inwardly repeating the prayer which, like incense from a chapel, perpetually floated up- ward from her heart. And the prayer seemed to meet with a response as the days glided swiftly past; swiftly, for when not busied with her labor, Silva bestowed all spare time upon her infant-and what mother does not find the hours short when so occupied? Daily, too, did her mind become freer from. bitterness toward{; him who had taken advantage of her transitory craze. She. tried, tried hard-how hard it was let any woman imagine-to pardon him, as she hoped to be pardoned herself. The struggle was long and difficult, but each day's lapse made it easier. As she had said to Frank, slhe could often forget him so completely that his name was not pres- ent to her mind save when praying. On the whole, life at this period was more pleasant than she had known it before; sorrow walked by her side, it is true, but its-lineaments were slowly though surely changing from despairing anguish, trusting in nothing, to :::::. the softer features of a pitiful-eyed, wistful recollection. `-:                    eco e     I S         LOSING TO WIN. She thought it odd that she did not see more of Tommy Grains. He came to Frank's studio rarely, and when he did come his visits -were invariably as short as he could make them. His excuses about want of time did not deceive her, for she knew that work in the office of a daily newspaper seldom commenced before one or two o'clock. What could be the reason? Sometimes she thought he wished to avoid her: his questions as to her surroundings and business were always minutely searching, but having obtained tile assurance that she was doing well, he would press his in- quiries no further and depart satisfied. This was not enough: she wanted him to talk to her as he used to talk, to speak of his hopes and his aminDitions, as he had done in the long-gone days \\when h(, tookl her to the theatre and to that celebrated scientific suppelr w\iere they had danced together. She mentioned this to F ra ly. i), t-.s it not strike you that Tommy keeps away from us more t}l1;/at hc n('ed?" \\What could put such an idea as that into your head, Silva? He is one of the best fellows that ever lived." I IndLeed, do I not know that?" was Silva's response, sadly. "You n1ust have misunderstood mne. What I mean is that I think he could come here oftener than he does. And when he does collie, you know he stays only long enough to ask how we are. "Per}haps you are right. Now I think of it, Master Tommy 1has been rather ncoglecting' us of late. Suppose we give a supper, andt ask him and his friend BIayner. It swill do you good, for you ned a little excitullenlet to cheer you up. You are lookingthinner-- and( paler than you ought." :"\Accorldingly a note was written and posted to the Globular office, inviting Grains and his comrade to do "Frank Sturdy, Esq.." the honor of eating supper chez Izzi on the following even- inrg but one. An answer was received the next day that the two individuals named would be delighted to give themselves that pleasure, and would present themselves in a properly eupep- tic condition." The preparations were simple. During the afternoon the studio -was cleared, its contents being placed in Silva's sitting- room, and swept and garnished as it had not been since Frank's occupancy-. Hoary-headed, patriarchal spiders were astonished   FRANK'S SUPPER.          18  to find themselves flying into boundless space, and made the dis- covery that even their world could not last forever. The tombs of countless flies yielded up their dust, and the floor appeared as though grinning with delight at having its face washed. A table was borrowed from the janitor, exhumed expressly for this occa- sion from the mystic interior of the all-devouring store-room. In addition to the unwonted luxury of a clean floor, Frank de- spoiled her bed-room to deck the walls of the studio with the ravished treasures. She would not let Silva take any part in pro- curing material for the evening's festivities, beyond a contribution towards the expense, declaring that she would purchase and cook everything herself, so as to make it a perfect, surprise. In early dusk she returned from an excursion laden down with bundles, and at once retreated to the stove in her bed-room, where the in- quisitive plesiosaurus was presently heard wheezing and snort- ing as though he had come to life in a peculiarly unpleasant manner. Grains and Bayner arrived abqut eight o'clock, and were re- ceived by Silva, who had left her door ajar so that she could hear her baby if it cried. Hardly had they shaken hands, when a red and jolly face was poked from the room in which the hostess was performing her secret culinary operations, and the voice belong- ing to it cried: "How are you, boys-hungry?" "I should rather think we were," answered Bayner. "Tommy here hasn't let me eat anything since breakfast." "Very good; I'll have the things ready for you in a moment. Is the table set, Silva?" "(Yes ; everything is in its place." "Then, take your seats, for up goes the curtain." With this she flung open the door, and emerged bearing a cov- ered dish which she set upon the table, to be followed by another and another. Then came four bottles of Bass' ale, and, last of all, a square box which Frank placed under her chair before sitting. "Now, open your mouths as wide as your eyes, and I'll give you something to make you wise," she exclaimed gayly, uncover- ::,  ing the dishes. "Here are some sweathreads that I was lucky :    enough to get. The butcher did not want to part with them, and .... said they had been promised to a highly respectable family but I Ai-   bullied him until he almost begged me to take them as a gift A     I 8         LOSING TO WIN. and leave him alone. Here you behold some buttered toast, which, unless I am very much mistaken, you will find to be as crisp and nearlyS as good as a new greenback. Here your eyes ill ble startled to observe a fine collection of Saratoga fried pota- toes, sent by telegriaph fronlm oon's for this occasion only. Tom- thN', you ma!V uncork the bottles. Be a good boy, and do not drink any Imoie ale than you can get. So fall to, my merry masters; may guod direstionl wait on appetite." ThIe ap)Detite at all events was there, and in strong force, for tlhough htr high si)irits speedily infected the little company, even Silcva lau-!nlg w\ith much of her old mirthfulness, the table was soon clea-tred. ot Nthing left lbut a beggarly account of empty dishes," said Tolnnmy at length, leaning back. "Not so 'list, 11y son," said Frank, diving under her chair and p'o D(du('illg the' carefully-wr)apped square box. "Just open that, ad1(1t see what Vyou will see." C;rains undid the folds of paper and brought to light a box of "By Jove, a-.llnk!" he exclaimed enthusiastically. "This is first-class. But, look here, my friiend, have you made arrange- lnents for a visit to Blackwell's Island? You'll reduce yourself to, a statte of ai)ject poverty if you give any more such gorgeous cnterttai n I11 lts." "Never fear for me, Tommy. I am   making 'lashins' of llIoney :at Dprescit, getting ready for the holidays. Besides, other thing-s tha-n curses and chickens come home to roost. Do you remcelntw r a certain ten-dtollar hill?" Grains should( have remembered the money he gave her when leaving Sil-va in her hands, for he had lost a dinner and breakfast htefor-e c could obtain more; hbut he merely took a cigar and said The ensuing slight pause, during which Little Silva looked gratefull- at Tommy, was broken by Bayner. \\'eli; I never should have believed it," he said, as if thinking aloucd. "Believed Nwhat?" asked Frank. Thele is actually paint upon the walls. I have always won- dered xwhether there w-ere any underneath the dust or not. It seemed such an extravagance that I could hardly think it existed.   FRANK'S SUPPER.          183 You had better not let the landlord see how spruce your room looks, or he will raise your rent." "I could afford that, young man, better than you and Tommy can afford to drink champagne in the morning. The idea! A reporter drinking champagne-and paying for it, too." "Who told you?" inquired Tommy. "Never mind-a little bird. But is it true?"  "{ Yes," he admitted. "I felt fearfully out of sorts, and cham- pagne is the only fluid that, under those circumstances, restores me to a normal condition. You see, the carbonic acid gas- " "Bother all that," she interrupted; " you know I don't care about chemistry, and you know I do care whether you drink wine in the morning. Whose fault was it?" "Mine," said Bayner promptly, removing hi-s cigar. It Then you're a very bad boy to lead Tommy into temptation. I'll warrant that neither of you did a stroke of work that day." "No. We went to Staten -Island." "And drank bier and played billiards. I am ashamed of both of you. Is that the way to live? Is that the way to work? You know better than I can tell that it is not." "There is no harm in it," said Bayner. "We drank only a little of course-not enough to affect a fly." "Well,' said Frank decisively, "I will not have it-that's all. If you want champagne and can afford to pay for it, I have no objection when your work for the day is finished; but never let me hear again of your drinking in the morning. Now, Tommy, you're eying that empty glass. -If you will promise, to behave yourselves I will give you each another bottle of ale, and then you must go." Frank was in the habit of treating her friends to short lectures, and had often effected no small amount of good by her energetic remonstrances against evil conduct. Upon both the young men vowing for the future to heed her injunction she produced the two bottles. "Tommy," said Little Silva in a low voice-perceiving which, Frank immediately engaged Bayner in a special conversation-- : "you come here so seldom that I have had no opportunity to thank you for your exceeding great kindness." :I:   "SNever mind that," he said impatiently, as a man usually receives thanks. "How do you and Frank get on together?"     I84         LOSING TO WIN. "On the best of terms. I have never met a woman who could and who has become to me so close, so dear a friend as she." "I am very glad." "You did swell in bringing me here, Tommy. I shudder to think what might have happened had you not seen me at that woman's"-she never referred to Mrs. Bilter by name-,'and taken me thence. I owe you a debt I can never repay." "I am repaid, Silva, in seeing you contented and prosper- ous. He did not allude to her child, nor, strangely, did she think of mentioning it to him. Hie resumed in a lighter tone, to change the subject: "You remember my saying that I would send to Mrs. Bilter's to see what was that important communication for you?" i"Perfectly. It \was some folly about wanting me to speak in public." "Yes, at the great meeting which comes off next week. Well, the joke of it is, that my messenger on that occasion has grown quite interested in Mrs. Bilter, and goes to see her two or three times every week. I rather fancy the old boy is smitten." "\Vith her? impossible." "Boys," said Frank rising, " you must go now." "But it's only half-past nine." "I know it, but that is my bedtime." "I shall go to the theatre then, if you turn us. out," said Bayner. "Go to bed early. That is better," she said; " and don't for- get your promise. Here are half a dozen cigars apiece for you." As their steps died away upon the stairs she turned to Silva. "( We have had a pleasant evening, and I have given those lads some good advice. It would be too bad for them to go wrong, as I have seen so many newspaper men do, and they shall not, if I can help it."   CHAPTER XXII. "UNDER WHCH KING, BEZONIAN?" ON the afternoon of the day following Frank's supper party, when Frederick Bayner had concluded his work in the shape of a short article describing a new public building, he handed it to the city editor, and looked upon the book to see if he were set down for anything in the evening. Finding that his name was not there, he made haste to leave the office lest anything might occur and he be detailed to write about it. Locking his desk, he resuined his coat and went into the inner room whither Grains had recently been moved, and found him leaning back in his chair, smoking a short black pipe and gazing with the utmost placidity of expression at the blank paper lying before him. An immense pile of foreign papers were on the floor; his desk was heaped with cuttings from their columns mingled with proof-slips and books and magazines of all kinds. "What are you doing, Tommy?" said Bayner, sweeping clear a portion of the desk so that he might have a place to sit upon. "I was just thinking whether it is worth while to write any more or not." "Don't then. 'I have nothing more to do to-day, so let us go down to Staten Island, stay all night, and make a roamin' holi- day." "Got any money?" "Yes-all we will want." Grains knocked out his pipe and locked it up with his tobacco bag; those articles being generally considered lawful prey in the Globzular office, the men there looking upon smoking material as school-boys look upon accessible apples; and resumed his coat , and hat. These simple preparations completed, the two friends ,/?;H descended the stairs together. XH::  As they emerged from the building they met Philip Bilter, who :if- a ,            A     I86         LOSING TO WIN. still retained the compositor's situation procured through Grains' presentation of him to the managing editor. He merely nodded and passed on without stopping. Who is your friend?" asked Bayner, while they walked down Broadway towards the ferry. "You must remember my telling you about him; he is the son of that woman's-righter, Mrs. Bilter." "I recollect. Does his mother ever come to the Globular to make a rumpus, as you told me she did at the other offices where he had been employed?" Shle has not been there yet, and I am rather suprised at her non-appearance. NWhen she does come I suppose there will be trouble, but hope that he may be able to keep out of it." "Why?" "I like the fellow. He is a hard worker and apparently very sobler and quiet. If it were not for his mother, who has always 1drag-get I him down b)y forcibly connecting him with her absurd ideas, he would bly this time occupy a good position. I think he has the ability to do as have clone so many others, and graduate fromn the case to the desk. iWe had quite a long talk one evening, during which he laid his heart open to me. He said that never once could he remember beingc fondled and petted by his mother; that she never cared for any of his childish confidences; never showed the slilghtest interest in what concerned him, but left him to stumble up to manhood the best way he could." "( It spealks w-ell for his strength of mind that under such cir- cumnstances he has not long ago gone to the bad altogether." "I think sot; I think he is worthy of great credit. As he told me, his inothier is perpetually flung in his face, and he must rcllmail silenlt. Of course he cannot thrash everybody, nor can he be contintlally resenting what is said of her, especially since he kn()ws alas \well as -Inv one how pernicious are her theories. He tries to \w(}rry' on ais best he may, but finds it very hard.-Here we are at the ferry." Grains and Bayner Nwaited patiently for the gate to be opened, mingled with the crowed which was held back by the paling as tlhough it constituted a species of wild beasts, kept there for the am usenment of the deck-hands who would every now and then saurnter up and survey themn with complacent eye. At last a man strolled leisurely towards the gate and as nonchalantly threw it   I       "UNDER WHCH .KING, BEZONIAN?"       187 ;i  open. Carried forward by the rush, the friends were swept over I-!9 the gang-plank as by a torrent, in among teams and enormous larger-bier wagons; into the cabin and up the stairs, where they were left stranded on the upper deck like two sticks thrown ashore by the tide. in    "Come," said Grains, " let us get our chairs quick, before they are all gone, or we won't be able to sit down." It was well that he spoke when he did, for only superior agility enabled Bayner to possess himself of two camp-stools, towards which a middle-aged, plethoric gentleman was confidently making his way, and who glared ineffectual ferocity at the predatory young man before going to seat himself in the ill-flavored cabin. Placing the captured stools in the bow of the boat-which a sagacious management invariably dedicates to smokers, so that the other passengers shall in nowise lose any of the odor of tobacco-the friends discontinued their talk while admiring the beauty of the bay, a beauty which never palls. If one should die after seeing the Bay of Naples, he should most assuredly live after seeing that of New York; live and make money and buy a villa overlooking the waters, whence he could gaze all day and admire the surpassing scene: the broad expanse dotted with flashingly gleaming sails, and the black lines of iron ocean-steamers; the sloping hills-crowded with thick growth of trees or shining in spaces with cottages snowy white, encircled by fields of brilliant color; the numerous reaching spires that start unexpectedly from masses of forest like index fingers pointing to heaven; and above all, the clear blue of the sky, so vaguely infinite, as clear and translucent as that of Italy. Grains' favorite pastime was to sail down the bay and back; he liked the salty breeze, the swift flowing strength of the waves, the sight of the beautiful scenery. This pleasant way of passing an afternoon once shown *:;, to Bayner, he had adopted it with enthusiasm: so much so that he -,  sometimes enticed his friend away from the office when both should have been there at work. The change was a delightful relief from the heat and toil of the city: the bright fresh breeze seemed to blow away the cobwebs of the brain, to clarify. thought, to lift the mind out of its usual track and endow it, like a balloon, with power it$ r ,to rise and float above the common things of earth. iX  i The friendship between these two young men was one of those ;ji  deep, enduring affections which appear to be partaken of only by     188         LOSING TO WIN. masculine natures, and even then but rarely. Liking each other in a manner that never sought expression in words, it was mani- festedl Inmore by a v-iNvid sylmpathy and a warm interest in whatever was of nmoment to the other. 'Meeting accidentally, a certain simi- larity :as well as diversity of feeling had drawn them rapidly into contact until thtey were now almost continually together, seeing each othe-r as often as the shifting exigencies of a newspaper writer's varited life would Ipernmit. Grains being the elder, naturally exerted thet most influence: his voice furnished the air for their duet. It was fortunate for each that the other possessed qualities which compensated those in which he was lacking. Tommy's greater age and wider experience had enabled him to suppress signs of dissipation which at one time were quite strongly manifested in Ba!yner. On his side, his fresher feeling and youthful glow of enthlusiasln lhad prevented Grains from falling, as he might other- wNise have done, into the most wretched state pertaining to any minild-a real inidifference. They would dispute and argue by the hlour on all k;in(ds of questions, never by any chance agreeing if there were the possibility of a discussion: neither caring, nor indeed wishing to convince his opponent, but speaking more to ventilate his own ideas than for any other reason. It was like taking clothes out of a wardrobe, giving them a good airing, then folding them up neatly and restoring them to their places for future use. Grains' convictions were far deeper than those of Bayner, as his sentiments \were stronger; and by much exchange of these charac- teristics the one favorably influenced the other. Leaving the boat at the landing and going to a little hotel perched upon the top of a hill, their first proceeding was to secure rooms for the night. This accomplished, and some dinner despatched, they established themselves upon the piazza, turning their chairs so as to look upon the bay. Over the hills the sun was setting amidst a confusedly tumbled heap of Ipurple clouds, shot through and made iridescent by burn- ing glint of gold, their edges flecked with spots of glistening sil- ver. Level lines of light stretched far along the horizon, turning the whole western sky to a blazing furnace, wherein seemed melt- ing all manner of precious stones, fused in a fairy crucible. Strange, rich colors dazzled the eye with an excess of unearthly tints, as rich and deep as though nature had been smitten to the heart and was bleeding with a million varied dyes, concentrated   X4:u "UNDER WHCH KING, BEZONIAN?"              I89 from the wide range of the universe. There is something wild in the appearance of a many-tinted sky, flaring into the passionate life preceding extinction; something which comes home to one powerfully as the hues fade slowly away before the encroaching purple and the hush of night. "Look at the sky," said Bayner. "It reminds me of the. German stories of gnomes opening the earth to a casual traveller, letting him see for an instant the incalculable treasures heaped up below his feet; see the flash of jewels, the golden river creaming into ripples of bluish green and whitest violet, letting him hear the chink of metal and the rattle of coin before it closes forever. Look how the sea dimples and sparkles; as though each point were a rosy childish mouth uplifted for the kiss of a sunbeam, and how it strengthens into the brooding purple nearer shore. Do you notice how light and atmospheric the surface of the water is, flushed as if suffused by a conscious blush, leaping and dancing as if about to joyously yield another Venus Anadyomene? See, over there," he pointed to the Long Island shore, " a few trees have already turned: how the yellow leaves glitter, how the forest shimmers in this" beaming, gorgeous light. The sky is a cathe- dral, and the west its window of stained glass." "Lilli-lilli-lillibullero," croaked a harsh,' hoarse voice at his elbow, in curious dissonance with his words. He started and looked around.            , "It's only the parrot," said Grains, laughing. "You jumped as if a pistol had been fired close to your ear."  It was rather startling, I must say," Bayner said, smiling. "That was hardly the kind of commentary one would expect upon a poetic speech. Here, Polly, Poll, Poll." The bird hopped to a chair and thence sprang upon the table, where it stood preening itself, interrupting that occupation to stare at the friends with its head cocked to one side and a wicked leer in its cunning little eye. "Polly, Polly," repeated Bayner, holding out his hand, at which the bird snapped viciously. "Be careful, Fred," said Tommy, " she's an evil-minded beast. I saw her once slit a man's finger to the bone." "Lilli-lilli-lillibullero," croaked the hoarse voice again, as though assenting to- the uncomplimentary remark. C C The light waned, becoming gradually fainter, until the last     I 90        LOSING TO WIN. vestiges of the sunset drifted dimly away. The monotony-of night stretched over the sky. Then the stars came out; large and twinkling they shone upon the water, whence a thousand winking eyes looked back at them. The sea grew darker and more still-smooth and placid-only breaking where it washed the beach in tumbling ripples that glittered with phosphorescent sparks, and sang a low soft song of soothing melody. The air grew thicker, darker. Where the two friends were sitting on the piazza was shaded by a large weeping willow. On one side shone the lights from the interior of the hotel, on the other the colored lanterns of anchored vessels or the flitting gleam of a pilot-boat shooting down the bay. Near them clambered the parrot, sawingring from chairs by either beak or claws indiffer- ently, or biting hungrily at the railing. "Tommy," said Bayner, after a long pause, his cigar casting. a queer reddish reflection upon his face. His voice was lowered, perhaps in accordance with the tranquillity of nature. "Tommy." "Well, Fred." "Do you remember my telling you, on returning from Stem- well, of a wonderfully beautiful girl whom I saw on my way from the brick-yard?" "Perfectly; if she at all corresponds to your description she must be wonderfully beautiful. Well?" "I saw her again last night, after leaving Frank's." "Indeed! \Vhere?" "At NVallack's. You know  I left you to go there. I went around to the stage in order to speak to a friend, and while stand- ing in the wings- "He hesitated. N"Well?" asked Grains, as he had asked before, but this time with more interest in his voice, more feeling in his manner. "Lilli-li1li-lillibullero," croaked the parrot, making droll gur- gling noises in its throat. "I saw her, seated in a box, surrounded by a swarm of the usual lean-headed youth; dressed finely, and looking, if possible, even more lovely than when I last saw her." "She was not alone?" "Certainly not. There was an old gentleman with her and two girls, but she was the only one for whom I had any eyes. I cannot understand why her face should make such an impression upon me.   Think of what I may, be doing no matter what, it   :i,.:^: {I {"UNDER, WHCH KING, BEZONIAN?          I9 I rises before me, pure, calm and sweet as an angel's dream. When at Stemwell, it was. ever present to me in the same manner, ever before me: the eyes shining with a soft graciousness, the mouth fixed in a gentle expression of mild stateliness, of-so to speak--sweet severity that was wondrously charming. Then in the city, although the figure would come with the same clearness of outline, yet it was with me independent of any volition of mine, It is a curious sensation." "' And most of all would I flee from the cruel madness of love, the poison of honey flowers and all the nameless ill,' " quoted Tommy impressively, mournfully even. "Love?" said Bayner, drawing a quick breath. "t I hardly think that it can be love I feel for one whom I have never seen but twice, with whom I have never interchanged a word. Last night she looked at me-I saw her eyes meet mine fully, and then she turned away blushing, confused, no doubt, by my stare. Ah! if-but of what use to spin dreams or weave idle fancies? She is rich, probably, I am poor-how could I ever aspire to her? It may be that I shall never meet her, never see her-again. But in any case, I know that I am different from merely looking upon her." "You have changed, Freddy, since going to Stemwell, and changed for the better. Your life is better organized, better con- ducted." "( Yes, and it is in consequence of having my thoughts so con- stantly fixed upon that bright, pure image. It is as though it were always with me, seeing and hearing all that I do or say." i "I know that feeling," said Tommy, very slowly, his voice sinking. "I know what it is to have such emotions. When "   thinking of her do you feel better, and nobler and higher, and at the same time soiled and stained by- contact with the world?" "Yes," was the low answer. The red light of the cigar had died away now, and through the darkness nothing could be per- ceived. "Do you feel as if you were capableof all things, either of- accomplishment or renunciation; as if you would give up every- thing to secure her one moment's pleasure; as if you would-if you could-renounce even her herself, provided that would conduce to her happiness; as if you would-if you could--conceal froin "X,      192         LOSING TO WIN. her the knowledge of that renunciation, of the pain it cost you, in order to save her an instant's grief?" Bayner shivered as though the old superstition were true, and some one were walking over his grave. I would try," he said very softly. "Then you love-love as a woman should be loved." Lili-lilli-lillibullero," chimed in the croaking voice. The silence that ensued was broken only by the crackling of a match as Grains lit a cigar. Bayner was the first to speak. "You are right, Tonmyy; I do love her. There is no good in trying to disguise it. I know that I love her-that I always shall; but I can do nothing. "Nothing but live your life the best you can, and wait. Once to every man comes the time when he must answer the question, ( Under which king, Bezonian; speak or die.' Once is the op- portunity offered to make the choice. If he neglect it, refuse to answer, or choose wronlg, then does he indeed die, die to all that makes life high and noble. The time for you has come now. Do your work faithfully, neglect nothing, slight nothing, and you shall at least deserve reward. Remember the distich  'Straight is the line of duty, Curved is the'line of beauty: Follow one, and thou shalt see The other ever follow thee.'" Groping in the darkness, Bayner put forth his hand and laid it upon Tommy's shoulder. ( I have tried to do that lately, but not so thoroughly as I should have done. To-night begins a better, cleaner life. Hitherto I have had no reasoned-out line of conduct, it has been emotional not logical, but it shall be made different. I know what is right, and shall do it." "Never mind whence we derive our moral sense," said Grains. "Kant is correct when he says, ' We can, therefore we ought.' Do the work that lies nearest to us the best way we can; that is my theory of a good life." "Such as it is I am. satisfied with it," said Bayner earnestly, "and shall strive to follow it out to the end."   "UNDER WHCH KING, BEZONIAN?"        193 "Lilli -lilli-lillibullero " came in like a chorus with a bad cold in its head from the parrot pattering over the table. The lights in the hotel were dying out, one by one; the lights in the sky were blazing with intense brilliancy, their countless reflections wrinkling into scattered rays as a soundless breeze ruffled the water. The waves broke upon the shore, singing a song that brought to each a different meaning: to Bayner a delicious melody of which he had heard as yet but the opening notes; to Grains the dying strains of a song of sadness and of defeat, but of that defeat where the conquered. returns upon his shield. Do you know her name?" asked Tommy as they separated for the night. No. I have not the least idea." Lulled to sleep by the monotonous plashing of the waves, soothed by the fragrant touch of the soft-fingered wind, watched over by the bright-eyed stars, Bayner's rest was deep and sweet. Flitting phantom forms hovered around him, too dim to be defined, too impalpable to be recognized. And sounding through his sleep, clear and distinct, was the parrot's sole vocal effort, Lilli-lilli-lil- libullero." 9 - 'yft-     CHAPTER XXIII. THE GREAT VINDICATION OF WOMEN. HERE was a row in the women's camp. In fact, there was 1 always a disturbance of some kind in progress, caused either 1in the contlicting claims of faction leaders who would fight under no one's banner but their own, or the fierce renunciation of doc- trines which the opposing parties declared were injurious to the great cause. Each would range itself in opposite camps, and thence conduct the battle'in a Chinese style of windy warfare with profuse flinging of offensive missiles. If times happened to be somewhat dull, the columns of the daily papers would be opened, and for several days the contestants would be delighted at reading full reports of their speeches, and, occasionally, an " interview " giv- ing opinions upon every subject under the sun, and a great many matters usually supposed to lie beyond it. Then the public inter- est would languish, editors become tired of the irruption into their offices of ungainly females laden with "explanatory letters," and the whole affair be suffered to lapse into the befitting obscurity from which only a dearth of other material had dragged it. The woman's movement had fallen entirely into the hands of a set who were rapidly swamping it. Originally conducted by some who honestly believed that women should have the same political privileges as men, and against whose characters not a word of detraction could be uttered, the control had passed to others who made public boasts of setting at defiance all principles of social morality. I;y this the cause certainly gained in notoriety, but also lost what claims to respectability it had ever possessed. 'The former leaders, who durst not follow to their natural conse- quences the workings of their ideas, were pushed into the back- ground, and their places taken by loud-voiced, self-asserting women, reckless and ready to say anything, no matter how coarse or absurd, to gain a moment's attention. With them were asso-   THE GREAT VINDICATION OF WOMEN.       195 dated a number of half-crazy people calling themselves reformers, who enunciated the wildest doctrines concerning what they styled the reorganization of society, and the crudest statements of what they fondly believed to be political economy. They all owned to a high power the common error of ill-educated persons: the faculty of viewing only one side of a question and reasoning upon that as if it were the entire issue. Their plan to bring down rents was to hang landlords; to reduce interest, destroy banks; to secure high wages, pass laws to that effect. They relied implicitly upon the power of law-making, thinking that any change in human nature or in the relations of men to each other, could be brought about by statute. That was the sole principle in which they had a firm belief; the greater number rejoicing publicly that they were so far superior to their fellows as to have no idea of a ruling power, and the others being given over to the ungrammatical communications of spirit mediums. Mrs. Bilter was to be yet deposed. Still having some notions of decency and propriety, she had attempted to make a schism when the free-lovers came prominently to the front, but the at- tempt failed. She was as disgusted as mortified to find that her most cherished followers deserted to the enemy, while the few that did stand by her were too unimportant to be good for hard ser- vice. In this emergency there were two alternatives: cast in her lot with the free-lovers and regain her ascendency by going be- yond even them, or leave the field defeated. The former she could not make up her mind to do; the latter was fully as disa- greeable. It came to her very bitterly that after long years of labor in making speeches, writing, and giving up her whole life to the one object of obtaining votes for women, she should be dispossessed, distrained as it were, by adventurers, who, seeking notoriety at any cost, wished her place as the means best adapted to that end. More bitter still was the thought that her suprem- acy could never have been shaken save by the defection of her friends. She did not reflect that the mental intoxication practised by her followers was like physical intoxication, in that eachexcess required stronger stimulants and larger doses. This bitterness was not alleviated by finding that her old enemy Miss Thruggser counted for much in producing the defection. Since that meeting at Mrs. Bilter's house when the gauntlet was thrown down and war declared, Miss Thruggser had spared no efforts to undermine     196         LOSING TO WIN. her adversary. The fruits of her incessant opposition were con- tinually cropping up. One day would appear in some friendly paper a notice declaring the generally felt regret that Mrs. Bilter's age incapacitated her from further labor in the great cause. This strenuously denied, it would be answered that, despite her many years, she still held out bravely, though, of course, her works showed signs of feebleness. This was very aggravating, very wearing. In addition, the indefatigable Miss Thruggser had striven energetically to have Mrs. Bilter removed from her position as President of the Woman's League, and though she had not fully accomplished her purpose, had so far succeeded in depriving it of power that the office was merely a nominal one. The opposition and the daily greater prominence assumed by the free-lovers sometimes made Mrs. Bilter feel disposed to give up the struggle. But she shut her teeth and vowed in the allegorical language of a campaign circular that she would stand to her guns so long as a shot remained in the locker. These matters were strictly private, not a whisper of the dissension being allowed to come before the public. A recruit had recently been added in the person of Miss Snit. When that talented lady left Mr. Denton's house she had suffi- cient money accumulated to keep her in idleness several months. Having frequently written letters to the organ of the Woman's League, she determined that she could do nothing better than come to New York, form acquaintance with the leaders of the movement, become personally conspicuous in it, make speeches, and gain some of the commendation for which her soul hun- gered. It was easy to do: any one with a few dollars was wel- comed with open arms, and Miss Snit was soon enjoying as much distinction as she wanted. She naturally gravitated from Mrs. Bilter-with whom she had at first affiliated-to the opposite side, thereby causing that excellent person the grief of witnessing another defection. Taken about by her new friends and invariably introduced as the " martyr of Stemwell," for her adventures had crept into the papers, she was the recipient of many compliments fromn reformers who had a remarkably keen eye for the main chance and wished to borrow a little of it. Miss Snit enjoyed herself hugely ; she could not contain her delight when told that she would be allowed to make a fifteen-minute speech at the   TIlE GREAT VINDICATION OF WOMEN.       17 great meeting. To be sure, she had to pay roundly, but the honbr was cheap at any price. Preparations for the grand demonstration had gone on lately with much activity. Thanks to the system adopted by those who now controlled the League, of sending out handsome women as canvassers, a good sum of money had been raised for the occasion. In most cases women succeed in obtaining a subscription, for when they enter an office and lift the floodgates of their talk the stream flows without possibility of interruption until the badgered man of business will pay them to depart. When they sit, with a determination not to leave until the demand be granted written in every line of their countenance, it'is useless for a man to resist his fate: there is no getting rid of them. He cannot call a policeman or order his clerks to turn out the intruder, and must consequently yield perforce for the mere sake of peace. By a liberal employ- ment of such tactics the canvassers infested Wall Street-a peren- nial mine of wealth to women who talk against time for money- and the immediate neighborhood, until their appearance became a thing to be hated. Brokers fled at their approach, clerks recoiled in dismay-but the cash came in. As the collectors received ten per cent., they had not been long at work before they unanimously blossomed forth in new bonnets. The papers were likewise besieged, but by a different class. Thin, raw-boned women, dressed entirely in waterproof suits, with hair cut short and parted on one side, lay in wait for unhappy editors until the wretched mortal was obliged to give audience. Nor was he permitted to step aside from the cataract of words descending upon his head before he had promised both notices and reports. The managing editor of the Globular, Mr. Saxton, paid dearly for the interest he had at one time manifested in the cause. Two prominent members of the League visited and baited him for an hour and a half to secure extended reports of every speech to be delivered. He resisted as well as he could, struggled vehemently against the current, but in vain: he was finally obliged to succumb and promise them their own way. They retired, protest- ing gratitude and leaving their names as pleasant reminders. No sooner were they gone than Mr. Saxton sent at once for Bayner. "I want you to report this meeting," giving him a circular and stage ticket. "Make it pretty full, and give them all fits. It either of these women speak," and he handed him their cards,     198         LOSING TO WIN. "make them as ridiculous as possible. Spell their names right, but print their speeches as ungrammatically as they are sure to be de- livered." "By-the-way, Freddy," said Grains, who had overheard the instructions, , when Mrs. Bilter speaks, just remember Little Silva." "I shall. Do not be afraid." Altogether, the prospects were that the great meeting might fare rather badly in the columns of the Globular. Advertisements and large posters gave public information at what time thfe door would be opened. A hall had been obtained in the central part of the city, and at an early hour groups com- menced to form  around the entrance. Here and there could be seenl the fig ure of a reformer-there was no mistaking it; but the larger part of the audience promised to be composed of old women of both sexes who lad no better employment for their spare hours; school-girls visiting the place for a fiolic, and listening with laugh- ter which they would take no trouble to conceal; loungers, who enter anywhere the admission- is free for the simple reason that they prefer sitting upon well-stuffed cushions to walking about the streets; and finally, that miscellaneous crowd found in every city, coming no one knows whence, and which turns out in equal force to witness a parade, a funeral, an open-air meeting or anything which \will give it a moment's occupation. These were the people whom  Bayner found assembled in the body of the hall as he sat at the table in the right-hand corner of the stage after making his way through the back entrance. The audience was noticeably quiet and orderly compared to that which usually attended public meetings of the League, but Bayner accounted for it by stating in his report that as this meeting was held in the daytime, the rougher class had no opportunity to be present. He intended to make his article comic, and glancing over those upon the stage and in the hall, saw with the quickness of a trained eye what an admirable occasion offered. Long-haired men and short-haired women were in profusion; but uniformity was confined to hair alone. Large eagle eyes stared glitteringly from each side of a pug nose; small, ferret eyes twinkled dimly alongside majestic Roman noses. Big mouths were on little faces, and thin contracted lips were oases in deserts of flabby white com- plexions. And of these another curious anomaly was apparent. The skins of the men were of that thick chalky whiteness common   THE GREAT VINDICATION OF WOMEN.       I99 to vegetarians; the skins of the women were yellow and coarse, seamed with wrinkles as- if they were garden-beds newly raked. Costumes were odd'; as much out of relation to modern dress as were the wearers' minds to modern thought. Nowhere does the theory of correspondence between dress and its owner seem truer than- at a woman's-rights meeting; nowhere would the doctrines of Teufelsdr6ckh find such ready confirmation. Every twist and tangle of the mind, every kink has its correlative in the apparel worn by the participants. They never look as though made for any particular wearer-there is something ludicrous in the mere idea of a reformer being measured for his clothes. Garments seem rather as if they grew out from the bodies by some course of nature, some undiscovered application of the evolution hypothesis very far removed from individual selection. In the background was Mr. Snoggles. Dressed far more gorgeously than when mak- ing his visit to Mrs. Bilter, he sat with his chin supported by his hands which were clasped over the handle of an umbrella, listen- ing attentively to all that was said. Bayner's pencil flew rapidly over the paper as he jotted down suggestions and hints to be afterwards used, occasionally glancing about the hall for fresh material. His fancy was odd; and his flow of words fluent, so he had small doubt but that he could make a good report. Moreover, it was but three days since his talk with Tommy Grains at Staten Island, and it was still bright and green in his mind like a newly planted tree. Whether the tree Would strike root and flourish or wither and die was yet to be deter- mined. His pencil flew rapidly over the paper as queer comments and droll descriptions came into his mind. It did not stop until Mrs. Bilter rose as President of the Woman's League, and informed the audience that it was cordially welcomed; that the more auditors were present the more the suffrage-seekers would be pleased; that the cause desired nothing better than to be widely known so. as to disabuse of false ideas those who considered it fatal to the peace of society. Accompanied by a sharp sidelong glance at Miss Thruggser and her adherents, this remark called forth sev- eral faint hisses and some symptoms of applause from the 'few remaining faithful to the old allegiance. Mrs. Bilter concluded her introductory words by bespeaking respectful attention for the ^,   "distinguished lady orator" who was now about tQ make an X ,     200         LOSING TO WIN. address. As she resumed her place, Miss Thruggser and her immediate companions commenced a prolonged whispering which, from their spiteful glances towards Mrs. Bilter, evidently had reference to her. The whispering was continued throughout the whole morning, and at different times emissaries were sent to com- municate Fwith those in front. The distinguished lady orator was a small, vapid-looking per- son whose voice in nowise belied her appearance, being weak and quavering. She began a harangue in favor of making laws concerning divorce so flexible that the marriage yoke could be slipped on or off at will. Her speech was the ordinary collection of anecdotes obtained by personal observation to the effect that some husbands were tyrannical, therefore marriage laws must be abolished. She had heard of one man who used to throw rats and mice upon his wife; therefore marriage as an institution was a failure- The monotonous droning of the voice that feebly meandered among sloppy sentences; the soft, sweet air of Indian summer stealing in calmly through open windows, the sense of drowsiness produced by continued attention, affected Bayner. His eyes began to wink at longer intervals, his head to nod forwards; the pencil stopped its lazy gyrations and slipped idly from his fingers. The soft breeze blew with a more soothing touch, the droning voice sounded more monotonous, when he suddenly started and, with eyes wide open, stared intently at the doorway-so intently, that some near him, seeing the direction of his look, followed his eyes, but perceived nothing. What had he seen? Was he asleep or awake? Did he dream or had he seen a vision? There, in the principal doorway leading into the hall, he had seen, standing as though framed in a frame of white with darkling background, the girl whom he had seen at Wallack's a few nights before, and whom he had confessed to Grains that he loved. A quick impulse seized him to snatch his hat and run outside, that he might learn if he was mistaken, if he had not been deceived by a phantom conjured up by his busy brain. The im- pulse Awas quick, but short-lived. Inclination pointed the way to follow; duty pointed to his incomplete notes, and with steady hand pushed him down upon the chair from which he had half   ;:d      THE GREAT VINDICATION OF WOMEN.       201 risen. "Yes," he thought, leaning back, "it is right for me to stay here, so stay I will. I will do my work at all events. If I am to see her again, I will, without neglecting what I should do." The monotonous voice continued its feeble trickle; the soft touch of the wind came to him with softer touch, and seemed to murmur words of strange new meaning, as he leaned back in- his chair, absently tracing lines and circles between the memoranda. It was curious that he' should see her so soon after that talk of love and duty, as though her appearance were an answer to his hope for another sight of the pure, beautiful countenance. But had he really seen her? He could not answer the question satis- factorily. It was strange that she should come to such a meeting; stranger still that if she had come, he had not seen her enter and take a seat. Perhaps it was but a dream, a phantasy evoked by constantly dwelling upon one image. He knew how capricious is the brain, what tricks it plays, and this might be one of those de- lusive apparitions which so frequently come to imaginative people. Applause broke the revery, but whether the applause were a genuine tribute to the distinguished lady orator's ability or a sign of thankfulness that she had at length finished, were difficult to decide. After her came other wearying speeches, and when the hour arrived for adjourning the morning session--there were to be an afternoon and evening one-Miss Thruggser sprang the mine she had been busily preparing. A satellite arose in the audience and cried shrilly, "Before we adjourn, I'd like to make a motion. I heard somethin' about the Presidentess not bein' in accord with everybody. Now, I think that she always does right, and so I move that we take a vote of confidence." Mrs. Bilter fell headlong into the artfully constructed trap. "The motion is irregular," she said, rising and coming forward; "but I will put it, if it is seconded." Voices were immediately heard: "Second it." "It is very complimentary to me," she continued, "to move such a resolution, and I hope in the future to deserve your trust as highly as I have in the past. My feelings--" "Question! Question!" Mrs. Bilter cut short her speech, experiencing a glow of grati. fied vanity notwithstanding the interruption, and put'he question accordingly. "It is moved and' seconded that the Presidentess "Wg4     202         ILOSING TO WIN. deserves the confidence of the League. Those in favor of the motion will please rise." To her horror, only some dozen individuals complied with the request. She could not believe her eyes, but counted them again and again. To make sure, she repeated the motion, and the result was the same. Put the negative," sneered Miss Thruggser. Crushed and humiliated, Mrs. Bilter was forced to comply. At least fifty persons voted against her. She was too outraged to be angry, too wounded to be indignant. Only with a great effort could she keep back the tears, strong-minded woman as she was. It was useless for her to go through the formality of resigning. Too late she perceived the trap, and knew that she was as thor- oughly deposed from leadership as if a new President were al- ready in her place. Without a word, she gathered up her papers, took her parasol and gloves, and left the stage with unsteady step, not once looking back. Despite her striving for many years to crush all natural feeling, she could not but be sorely grieved when her one ewe lamb was thus ruthlessly torn from her; when the organization which she had formed, nourished and brought to its present power and strength of numbers, threw her off as an incubus. It was as if the ewe lamb had turned to a vicious ram and butted her over a precipice. Those in the hall immediately proceeded to the election of another President, and Miss Thruggser succeeded in gaining the coveted post. She made a speech of exultation over her fallen enemy, promising to do great things for the League now that they were spared the trouble of dragging after them one who was a clog upon their forward march rather than a leader found always in the van.   BLACK TO WIN., /R. WHARTON'S visits to Wall Street for the purpose of conferring with that eminent manipulator of the stock market, Mr. Homer Graynan, were frequent about this time. Stocks were lively, vibrating up and down with an incessant variability, like a thermometer in spring. As often happens with middle-aged men, not highly cultured enough to enjoy the repose earned by a life of devotion to business, Mr. Wharton had felt his leisure weigh heavily upon him. Too old to even assume an Interest in yachting or horse-racing, too accustomed to city existence to have any real pleasure in the country or to entertain himself with the superintendence of his grounds, he knew not how to pass his time. Hunting or fishing possessed no attraction for him. But stocks offered a reputable form of excitement, a respectable method of gambling, which would at once give him something to think of and distract his mind from the weariness of trying to amuse itself with what it cared, little or nothing about. Of course he lost; all strangers do when they first venture upon " the street." Since the conclusion of the war outside speculation has so dwin- dled that when one goes into stocks he stands a more than fair chance of learning by experience that whoever wishes the dancing of financial figures must pay the piping broker. Losing heavily, Mr. Wharton also occasionally won, and, with the com- mon fatuity of speculators, remembered only small gains, while for- getting larger losses. A lucky hit, which gave him a few thousand dollars, totally upset the vanishing of ten times that amount. Still he persevered. As at Niagara, if one put a foot in the rush- ing water, the leg is drawn in, then the body, then the head, and finally the rash adventurer is sucked out of sight and swept away upon black, sharp-pointed rocks, Mr. Wharton had gone deeply into the river of speculation: there was yet time for him to with- : r:r '-"a^?     204         LOSING TO WIN. draw had he not determined upon first "getting square." Little by little the stream was swallowing him, sucking him down into a chilling embrace, whence only a stern, strong wrench or sudden revulsion could extricate him before he perished. The purchase of the brick-yard had necessitated an overhaul- ing of his accounts. He was shocked to see how much had dis- appeared., or, rather, had gone into the pockets of other-people. In order to procure the money he needed he was obliged to raise it by means of second mortgages-about as unhealthy a way of hampering oneself as can be imagined. The surplus of this, too -for while he was about it he had obtained all he could-had gone by instalments into the hands of Mr. Graynan, and with it as with the preceding amounts, they were like the animals' tracks leading to the lion's den-nulla vestigia retrorsum. Still, he continued speculating. A few lucky chances would set hiln right again, retrieve his affairs from their entanglement. Onlly a few chances! How hard it was that when he wanted so little, stocks would not go as he wished. It was such a small favor to ask of fortune, he wanted it so much, that he almost prayed for it. Mr. Homer Graynan was not the gentleman to let any friend go, so long as that friend was available. Kite-flyer by profession, all his kites were flown to bring down something-and- they usually did ; they brought down to the ground with a crash the hapless individuals who had an interest in them. They were quickly bringing down Mr. Wharton. His smooth, fat face be- came thin and wrinkled as a corrugated iron roof; his comical round little stomach fell away, as though the orange were badly squeezed ; his light, springy step became slow and plodding. He did not speak much when at home, but would often sit for long time with his hands on his knees and his head sunk forward be- tween the rounded shoulders, musing and pondering. He had been losing again, so much that he durst not think of the mat- ter, but strove to set it aside. Another fine opportunity had been offered him: could he deposit with his broker a sufficient amount of money as a margin all might yet be well, especially as he would have the brick-yard to fall back upon. But where was the money to conime from. How could he get it? His altered appearance, while making no difference in his treatment of the girls beyond a sombre reserve and a disregard of   BLACK TO WIN.          205 all little feminine ways, called forth much comment from them. :?-  But no persuasion could draw from him any explanation except ;V.   the unsatisfactory one that he was worried. Worried! That meant nothing; what had he to be worried about? He was well off, and had no business cares on his mind. Harriet indignantly : +- declared that it was a shame for him to set his children apart; if anything were wrong they were old-enough to be, informed of it and not kept in the dark like babies. Eliza did not utter any remonstrating complaints, but quietly stirred up Mr. Joles until he one morning flowed into Mr. Wharton's library and suggested that he should confess. This being refused, with the curt ob- servation "You're an ass," Mr. Joles returned disconsolate, and informed Eliza that her father was obdurate-that his heart was hardened, and, in all seriousness, recommended her to burn some candles for him. At length Mr. Wharton's ponderings showed him a means by which he could have what money he needed; between the flint of desire and the steel of opportunity a spark was struck. 'He hesi- tated a day or two before taking the decisive step. He did not like it-but time pressed. It was treacherous-but he required thejmoney. It was dishonorable--but he would keep it only a little while. It was a crime-but nobody would know it. The day before the woman's-rights meeting he called at Mr. Graynan's office, and handed him a certified check for the amount of the margin. The day after' the woman's-rights meeting as he was in the library, smoking, in the early afternoon, a card was brought to him--"Mr. Paul Allington." "Take this to the young ladies," he said, giving it back to the servant. "He said that he wanted to see you, sir."    ' "Very well; show him in." The usual salutations being gone through with, and inquiries as to the health of Mr. Denton answered, Allington accepted Mr. Wharton's invitation to smoke. He lit a cigar, leaning lazily back in the low-seated luxurious arm-chair, as though settling himself ,-  for a long talk. ;: .  "How are affairs at Stemwell, Mr. Allington? I presume you :" have just come down." "Yes, I left there yesterday, and expect to return to-night.     206       ! LOSING TO WIN. Little has changed, except that the disaffection amongst the brick- yard laborers seems to be on the increase. I suppose they would have struck before this time were there not, I believe, a Trades' Union law obliging them to obtain somebody's permission before they can suspend work." "There is such a rule. But they may strike whenever they please. I am tired of this dictation to masters, we hear so much about; and, although I am a new one, if they try it in my case they shall find no easy submission I promise you." "You are not then one of those who submit readily?" asked Allington carelessly. "No, indeed." "But make a firm resistance," he resumed, as if continuing his sentence, " to every kind of inducement; hold out firmly against persuasions, cajoleries, temptations even." He slightly accented the last noun, looking sharply at Mr. Wharton. "Certainly," said that gentleman. For his life he could not have helped a quaver in his voice. "1 That is the kind of character I admire- By the way, did you see that account in the papers a few days ago of the suicide of a most respectable gentleman in Westchester County?" "I did not. Were you at the theatre-" "Excuse me a moment. It appears that this gentleman was the holder of some property in trust. Addicted to speculation, he had squandered the money of others, and then when detection came--as it always does come "-this with marked emphasis- "he blew out his brains. Curious, was it not, that a gentleman could have been so dishonorable?" Ve-xvery," said lIr. Wharton. For his life and the lives of all his household he could not have helped his voice shaking and himself changing color. "Do you know what he did?"said Allington slowly and impres- !   sively, drawing his chair to the table, leaning his arm upon it and looking attentively at his companion. "In order to obtain the money for his speculations he made use of title-deeds placed in his h tands. What do you suppose he did?-you would never guess if I did not tell you. He forged a power of attorney and then mortgaged the property." Mr. Wharton nervously passed his hand over a very damp forehead. Although perspiring, he felt a cold chill running down   ::!. *? *i BLACK TO WIN.207 I*?, -                           20 his back. His face was white; his hands shook. Allington con- tinued: "It was the knowledge that his forgery was discovered which caused him to kill himself. The discovery came about in a very simple manner. A neighbor suspecting something wrong went to the county clerk's office and saw the mortgage recorded, know- ing perfectly well that no power of attorney had ever been granted, for the reason that the owner was under age and therefore not competent to sign it." He paused, and then repeated his former question. "Curious, was it not?" Mr. Wharton roused himself by a powerful effort. "Yes. Have you been-" "Pardon me! I have not yet finished. If this-dishonorable gentleman "-Mr. Wharton shrank as though struck with a whip- "had been wise, he would have sent for him who discovered the forgery, and made with him what terms he could." Again Mr. Wharton wiped the perspiration from his forehead, and mustered up courage to look Allington in the face. His last words were like a rift in a stormy sky. "What-terms-could he have made?" Something like this for instance." Paul spoke very slowly and lowered his voice. "Suppose the man had said to him. ' I love your niece'-I forgot to tell you that the owner of the property, oddly enoughwas a woman and the niece of the forger-' give her to me and you shall never hear of this again. I have not had time to make her love me, and must consequently call for your assistance to secure her assent. Married, I can make her happy, and you can rest in peace with the assurance that your crime will never be known.' " He purposely used strong words-forger and crime. Mr. Whar- ton mustered up more courage. A slight color came back to his face; the rift in the stormy sky was widening. "Suppose," Paul went on, keeping his keen eyes fastened upon the other's reviving countenance, "that the man who had made the discovery resembled me-was exactly like me, in fact. What objection could have been urged against him in any circumstances; what objection could be brought forward when he came with a ':  claim like that which I have mentioned? Suppose that he was still young, passably good-looking, possessed of a large income and assured of a larger one upon the death of his uncle. I think that     208         LOSING TO WIN. the dishonorable gentleman, the forger whom this man could send to the State's Prison, would have jumped eagerly at such an opportunity of extricating himself from all embarrassment." Mr. Wharton quailed under the unpleasant words, but sat up straighter. The rift in the stormy clouds was quite wide now, and the sun of safety began to shine. "( Yes," he said hesitatingly, i" but "- "Another moment. Suppose, further, the girl was so young and innocent that she was wholly heart-free, that she would do anything to save her uncle from public disgrace-  I think I men- tioned that the forger was her uncle and guardian, did I not? In such a case all would go smoothly; the discoverer of the forgery would gain his wishes, the girl would be happy, and the dishonest uncle might forever dismiss from his mind every thought of State's Prison or suicide." Purposely employing strong words, their effect was what he had expected. Little by little the color returned to Mr. Wharton's face; little by little his collapsed figure became erect; little by little he was enabled to look squarely at the situation and adopt the only course he could adopt. "How could the-the uncle be certain that silence would be presenred?" "Once connected with the family, no man would advertise its dishonor. Come, Mr. Wharton," said Allington, his tones be- coming hard and imperative, " let us have done with allegory; there must be no shuffling in this matter.. You are aware of what I know; it rests with you to decide whether I shall or shall not marry your niece, Lily Vevere." "You shall, on my soul, so far as I can help you." "Very well. I must return to Stemwell for the night, but will be back to-morrow and call here early. By that time you will have so prepared her mind that I can plead my suit success- fully." "i      With this he departed, and in another instant Mr. Wharton, still sitting, heard the outer door clash behind him. On his soul Mr. Wharton had said that Lily should marry Allington. Could he persuade her to do so? Yes; of that he had no doubt. She was a good, obedient girl, and would do as he advised. Besides, the chances were that Allington had al- ready made a favorable impression upon her. If he could bring   1?(   -        BLACK TO WIN.          209 her to consent by no other means, he would tell her all; tell her how he had betrayed the trust confided to him by her dead parents; how, driven by his overmastering desire, he had forged her name, and so been able to make use of her property for his own purposes. It would be hard, very hard to tell her this, to humble himself before a young girl, to show his falseness and dishonor to one who had always looked up to him with affection and respect. But he must do it. Anything would be better than that it should be ever made public. He knew that Lily would never breathe a word concerning the matter. His mind seemed partially numbed. An unfortunate facility of hand had made the forgery but the work of a few minutes; so few that from the determination of the deed to its execution he hardly had time in which to fully think over what he was about. Even now, it was with difficulty that he could bring himself to think that writing his niece's name was a crime-how ugly that! word sounded!-crime which the law would punish with years of prison. A vague picture rose in his brain of himself standing at the bar in the court-room; the judge before him, officers on each side, the jury eying him wonderingly, and the mass of spectators behind craning forward to have a good look at him. The surroundings seemed to remain the same, as he saw himself with hair cut short-there was not much of it to be shorn, he thought with a half smile-clad in the particolored dress of pris- oners, at hard labor breaking stone. He shook his head impatiently, sprang to his feet and walked about the room, instinctively taking a cigar from the box as he came near the table. Had he really committed a crime? He, Josiah Wharton, the respectable retired merchant? 'A crime which would disgrace him, ostracise him, imprison him? He could not believe it. Surely no one would blame him very severely if they knew all the facts. He only wanted the money for a little while-a very little while. The speculation was sure to succeed, and then he would not only replace it, but give Lily a handsome present. If only Allington knew nothing-damn him! He was irritated-angry: not at having done wrong, but at being found out. What business had a fellow like Allington to come and insult him as he had done? What business-yes, he had forgotten about Lily. It would be best to see her at once.     210         LOSING TO WIN. Allington would come in the morning, and she muse be prepared to receive him. Mr. Wharton rang the bell and sent the servant with a request that Miss Vevere would come to him. She soon entered, fresh, bright and smiling, wondering what the subject might be upon which her uncle desired to confer with her. "\Vill you not sit down, Lily, dear?" he said, motioning to a chair.  I wish to talk to you seriously." This word made her wonder still more, but she took the seat indicated, while Mr. Wharton continued his nervously quick pacing up and down the room, rolling between his fingers the. unlighted cigar. "( ow old are you, Lily?" he inquired after a pause, keeping his eyes fixed upon the floor, though raising them for a moment to glance at her furtively when he asked the question. Nineteen last birthday, uncle." Another pause. "I suppose you have thought about marrying?" A delicate rose color, like the reflection from a stained-glass window, shone over her face as she answered quietly, "No, uncle, I have not." "But you will marry?" "I presume so; most girls do," she said, laughing. "Why do you ask?" "You will know presently. Will you answer me one question truly?" "I always tell the truth," she said, bridling pettily at the implied distrust. "Tell me, then, is there any one who has pleased you enough to make you think of marriage?" No." "Positively?" No, no. What has this to do with what you wanted to speak to me about?" "A great deal, Lily. What would you say if I were to tell you that I have just been asked for you?" "I should say that he must be a horrid man to speak to you first before saying anything to me about it," she answered lightly; adding in a graver tone, "besides, I have no idea of marrying; not for a long time. I am perfectly happy here."   - :?-):       BLACK TO WIN.          2" "But, my dear child," said Mr. Wharton, sitting down by her side, "you must, at some period, think of being married, and ::'  you are none too young to consider it now. You have told me that you are in love with no one, and I believe you; but you cannot have seen so much as you have of Mr. Allington " "Mr. Allington," she interrupted. "Has he been talking to you about-about my marrying?" Well-yes." :' What concern is it of his?"She knew very well what the answer would be, but woman like, did not refrain on that account from the question. "He has asked my consent to propose to you." "And did you give it?" "I did." Lily was silent; the vague anticipations had then taken shape; what Harriet had so often prophesied was at last come to pass. She felt a dislike to him for speaking to her uncle; for thinking of her at all-in that way, at least. When a girl, not blunted by a course of fashionable life and continual prate of marrying or giving in marriage, is brought face to face for the first time with a man ?:  who asks her for herself, her primary sensation is one of slight alarm; an instinctive shrinking controls her, partly dread and partly aroused modesty; like a touched sensitive plant she con- tracts and folds together. But there was time enough to think about the novelty of this second-hand proposal afterwards; at present Lily must reply to her uncle, who sat by her side, awaiting her response with a face whose anxiety she could hardly read through the gathering darkness. A long walk had given her high spirits, so she rose and made Mr. Wharton a mock courtesy, saying as her dress swept the floor, "Well, uncle, tell Mr. Allington that the next time he wishes to propose he had better address himself directly to the object of his admiration." ?-   "Stop, Lily, stop," cried her uncle as she was leaving the room. "Come back here. Do you mean to say that you will not accept him?" "I do mean that. If he were in your place I should say the same." , ;  - "But what objection can you have?" asked Mr. Wharton in -  : aalmost the same words used by Allington an hour before. He *. 2,s 4                          , ,       212         LOSING TO WIN. will lbe rich, is still young, and more than good-looking. He is most suitable in every respect." Uncle," said Lily gravely, standing before him, "you surely cannot expect me-a girl-to discuss such a subject with you. IIowever rich and suitable"-she uttered these words scornfully as only the very young can scorn riches-" he may be, you do not expect that to be any consideration. I do not-can not love him; that is enough. You have the only answer I can give." The closing darkness prevented her from seeing his face. Had it been visible she might have thought that she was looking upon a wax miodel. "Then you will not marry Paul Allington?" "Never." TI hat is your only answer " That is my only answer." Again she turned towards the door. He sprang forward and seized her by the wrist, speaking rapidly, vehemently, but retaining sufficient self-possession to lower his voice. "Lily, you are mad-you know not what you are saying, That man holds me in the hollow of his hand; he can crush me as he could crush an empty egg-shell. Would you have me mrined, disgraced, branded as an outcast, compelled to fly from my home, from my country, or seek refuge in the grave of a suicide leaving behind me a dishonored name? Would you have m) daughters to despise me, to speak of ine with averted eyes as one whom they dare not own? Would you have them flee from me as from the plague, shun me as one whose very touch bore con- tamination? This-this will be the result of your answer." The words came from him in an impetuous stream. So great is passion, that this commonplace man awed Lily, inspired hel with terror. Scarcely understanding him, she leaned against th( wall pale and trembling. "What do you mean?" she stammered through dry lips. His excitement was succeeded by the natural reaction. Ex. hausted and panting, he stood near the table, still mechanically rolling and twisting in his fingers the unlighted cigar. "Mean?" he echoed with a harsh laugh. "I mean that ii you refuse to marry Paul Allington, that refusal consigns me to  felon's cell." The phrase vibrated in: her ears with a sound as of thunder   BLACK TO WIN.          213 A felon's cell! Her uncle! Bewildered, she gazed upon him. The darkness was not so thick but that she could perceive the workings of a distorted face near her; it was not so thick but that i }  she could see the glare of two glowing eyes fixed upon her stead- fastly as a dying sinner might look upon a cross. ?*i    "Do you understand?" he repeated roughly. "I have done wrong-committed a crime. Paul Allington knows of it. He loves you, and you are the price of his silence. He comes to- morrow morning." She shuddered. What a lurid light seemed to suddenly flare around the man whom she had last looked, upon amidst the beau- tiful scenery of Stemwell. Mr. Wharton spoke again. "Now you know why I wish you to marry," he said with a strange sense of relief that, all being known, he could speak freely. "Refuse him, and to-morrow night I shall sleep in the Tombs or be dead. Dead! Oh, Lily, Lily," he cried eagerly; 'tf you have any love for me, if the months you have passed in my house have inspired you with any affection for me, if you have for my dear girls one tithe of the regard they feel towards you-come to my rescue. You alone can do it. You alone can save me." He sank into a chair; the same in which Allington sat when telling of the suicide in Westchester County; his hands clasped over his head, his figure shaken with excitement. Lily turned with her hand upon the door-knOb, her face set, her eyes dry. "I understand now," she said in low, even tones. "You have sinned, and I am to pay the penalty."     CHAPTER XXV. HARRIET MAKES A CALL. THAT afternoon Harriet had gone out alone to do some shop- ping. For quite a while she amused herself going from one store to another, having inmnense quantities of silks and ribbons piled upon the counter, and then purchasing twenty-five cents' worth as a saimple, which she ordered sent home. This process she continued until she had seen and admired all the new shades of silk in the market, from mignonette and fumee, through absinthe up to rose du the, and by observation had obtained many valuable ideas as to how her new dress should be made. She then went to Tiffany's, and there passed nearly an hour in the study of art as displayed in silverware and bronzes. By this time the day had pretty well lapsed, so she walked down Fifteenth Street to Fifth Avenue that she might there take a stage and return home for dinner. Going along the street she met a woman, quite well dressed, whose face seemed familiar to a certain extent, though Harriet could not recall where she had before seen her. She was tall, thin, and inclined to be what is vulgarly termed scraggy. "Don't you rememther me, Miss Harriet? I'm Miss Snit; used to live with Mr. I)enton, you know." It was thus that the housekeeper invariably spoke of her term of service; her hiigh-toned, free-born American nature revolting at any more definite allusion to her subordinate capacity. "Ves," said I atrriet, not particularly caring to cultivate the ac(uuaintance. "I remember you, now that you name yourself." She bowed distantly, and was passing on her way, when Miss Snit bairred her progress, saying: "\-ll, you knlow we had a quarrel about two weeks ago, and I left him." Ah. I hope you have obtained another situation."   HARRIET 'MAKES A CALL.        2IS The free-born American blood took fire at being considered to &f.  belong to a servant. "I never had a situation," Miss Snit exclaimed with asperity. , When a lady accommodates a man by living with him, she isn't to be classed with common Irish. I hope I know myself a little better than to let anybody treat me like a servant. Servant, in- deed!" she snorted energetically, with a peculiar upward wrink- ling of the nose only to be achieved by ladies in whose counte- nances that feature plays a prominent and bony part. "Not I! I consider myself quiteas good as anybody whose house I consent to live in, and I told Mr. Denton so before I left him, too." This was a freak of Miss Snit's imagination, so that Harriet might have spared herself the futile task of imagining the old gentleman's expression when he heard that announcement. ( Well, what are you doing now?" "I think that I shall start on a lecture tour this winter," and Miss Snit drew herself up with dignity, endeavoring to look com- posed under Harriet's frankly astonished gaze. "I made a speech yesterday at the great meeting, and my friends told me that as a lecturer I should be a success. To be sure, the papers spelled my name wrong and reported my speech upside-down; but then you know, Miss Harriet, we all have our countertoms." "So you have joined the ranks of the woman's-rights people? ' asked Harriet. "Joined! Why, I've always belonged to them. When I was at Stemwell I used to write lots of letters for the papers. Didn't you ever read any of 'em? They were signed ' A Watcher on the Tower.' Copied, too, some of 'em were. Well, when I and Mr. Denton disagreed, I came down here to my friends, and since then I've been very busy in the good cause." Here was the opportunity which Harriet had always wanted. She had originally declared herself a sympathizer with the strong- minded more to shock her sister than for any other reason. Had she been laughed at and let alone, her sympathy would have ended there. But, seriously argued with and denounced as false to the teachings of her condition, the obstinacy with which some wicked writers have credited all women made her advocate the theories lut the more strongly. She had at length become infected with the ideas adopted in jest, particularly as she could instance many honorable names both here and abroad whose owners thought as     216         LOSING TO WIN. she did. Not keeping a very accurate run of the movement, she was unaware of the recent schism which had shaken the society and the deposition of the respectable portion in the person of Mrs. Bilter. The accidental meeting with Miss Snit gave her a chance to learn the latest progress of the cause which was too good to be thrown asway. In one respect it was unfortunate that Harriet possessed more brains than the average girl, since she was thereby led into these vagaries merely from a superabundance of thought, and an ardent desire to find something with which to occupy herself. Dressing, shopping and making calls could not consume all her leisure. Neither were her feelings so centred in her devoted admirer, Cray Rolm, that she had no inclination for other subjects. She liked him very well, very much, but did not feel when he was away from her as though her life were incomplete, as thotugh it were one-sided. Had the question been put she would have hesitated before being able to decide whether her liking tor him arose from much association and the tender interest \with which a woman always regards the man whom she knows to love her; or sprang from the stronger, deeper ground of pure affection. She often experienced that listless sense of concentrated ennui Awhich frequently comes to clever girls, who have no cares to divert and occupy their minds, when they reflect of what small -worth their existence is. Their relations and friends would not be utterly inconsolable at their loss; the world at large would not mind it in the least. They could drop from sight, for the most part, creating no more sense of appreciable want than if they were so much driftwood floating upon a stream. Their presence is not ev-en necessar-. Household affairs would be no sufferer by their absence. The gap in the family circle would speedily close with the same ease and in almost the same time as does the bark of a tree unite around the piece cut from it. Harriet had no interests outside her father's house, beyond the purely factitious ones which she crea'ted for herself, and the principal one was ready to her hand to be investigated. "I should like very much to be introduced to some of your leaders. Can you not take me to see one now?" "( Well," said Miss Snit, flattered at the prospect of bringing a lady into the fold, thQughr her dignity did not allow the apprecia- tion to be slhown, "I was going to Broadway for a book, but that will keep. If you like I will take you to Mrs. Bilter."   HARRIET MAKES A CALL.          2 I7 "The great Mrs. Bilter? I shall be delighted." Walking towards Bank Street, Harriet asked, "Is not Mrs. Bilter the most distinguished of all?" "Well, no. She was Presidentess up to yesterday, when we managed to get rid of her and elect Miss Thruggser-a real smart lady. You see, Mrs. Bilter was too old-fogy for us advanced thinkers and kept the League from promulgating the principles of most of its members." Miss Snit was clever. She had not been in personal communi- cation with the members of the. Woman's League more than two weeks, and yet had already become so saturated with their pecu- liar phraseology that it oozed out from every pore. "( Then she is no longer the champion?" "No. Miss Thruggser is the Presidentess. There's a real liberal for you. We can follow her unitedly and press forward to victory, while under Mrs. Bilter we could never have gained more than the suffrage, if even that." "More than the ,.suffrage," said Harriet, beginning to think that there were more things in the Woman's League than were dreamt of in her philosophy. "What more is wanted?" Miss Snit looked at her curiously. "Is it possible that you take an interest in the movement, and yet do not know our aims?" "Not only do I take an interest in it, but I think that women should vote," said Harriet boldly, crossing the Rubicon and Sixth Avenue at the same time. ( But indeed I do not understand what you refer-to in saying that you want more than the suffrage." "Why, you are altogether behind the age. The suffrage is a very small part -of what we demand. What use will it be to let us vote, unless we are also granted the larger liberty? But as soon as we do vote, we'll very quickly arrange everything as it should be. We can either drop the fossils who do not agree with us and whose obstinacy is too strong to change, or make them come over to our side. As Miss Thruggser said the other day, 'Whom do you hear of now in connection with the great movement? Not those respectable old persons who are too old- fashioned in their notions to longer march with the vanguard. No; they have dropped behind. They did very well as pioneers, but we have no further use for them. Those whom you hear of now are the younger and more advanced leaders, into whose Io     a!     218         LOSING TO WIN. hands the standards have fallen. Ladies who press where the others never dared look, and who enter where they would shrink back.' was not that eloquent? You know they say that she is inspired by the spirit of Daniel Webster and communes every night with Demosthenes." "Ah!" "Oh, yes. A clergyman once wrote a splendid life of her; but the newspapers, which are always wrong, said. that it was im- proper, and recommended the police to seize it. So it was with- drawn from circulation. But here we are at Mrs. ilter's. '" Harriet was still in ignorance concerning the more advanced views set forth by the Woman's League, but reflected that she would probably hear them from the deposed leader herself. The parlor looked precisely as it did on the occasion of Mr. Snoggles' visit: bare, dusty and neglected. It inspired Harriet with no very favorable opinion of the reformer's home. When Mrs. Bilter entered she saluted the younger of her visitors court- eously, but glanced at Miss Snit as though she were a basilisk, and quite astonished at that lady's effrontery in not at once turn- ing to stone. Miss Snit, on her part, returned the greeting, if such it could be called, with equal coldness. ' I brought Miss Wharton to see you, Mrs. Bilter, because she expressed a wish to be acquainted, with our former leader; al- though, of course, after your resignation of yesterday you cannot expect your opinions to have very great weight." "What you are pleased to style my resignation, Miss Snit," said Mrs. Bilter, in the steady voice common to people wishing to restrain themselves from giving way to a burst of passion, "you know as well as any one, was forced from me by a vile, con- temptible trick, managed by that double-faced wretch Mehetabel Thruggser." "Now do not let yourself get excited." said Miss Snit, with exasperating smoothness. "You must be perfectly well aware that the real reason why you were removed is because you are not sufficiently advanced." "My views are as advanced as those of any one else, I can tell you that. Don't I believe that women ought to vote and hold office and be just like men? Don't I believe that the Govern- ment should find work for everybody? Don't I believe that it   * . HARRIET MAKES A CALL.         21g should abolish all banks and issue greenbacks to lend upon each one's note?" She paused; sat bolt upright, folding her arms across her breast and glaring stonily at Miss Snit; breathing hard. "Yes, that's all very nice," said the pupil turned master, the Saul metamorphosed into Gamaliel. "That's all very nice, but it's no answer to what I said." "What was that?" "That your opinions are antiquated. You must know, Mrs. Bilter," said Miss Snit with an offensive air of superiority, 'and assuming an expression which Mrs. Bilter afterwards described as high and 'mighty; "that we are all liable to become old and unable to keep up with the constantly advancing press of modern thought. To be sure, it is unpleasant to abdicate one's supremacy, but then we have the consolation of reflecting that even. the great- est of the earth must yield to encroaching age." This was driving the shaft home with a vengeance. Mrs. Bilter was no more inclined than would be any other woman to submit tamely to invidious remarks upon her age. "I have yet to learn, Miss Snit," she said with much concen- trated asperity, "that my age is greater than that of those who have the effrontery to speak of it when silence would be more be- coming. Those that live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones. If I am somewhat aged in the fight, which for many years I had to carry on single-handed against the common enemy, if my strug- gle with Man has made me appear older than I really am- I at least do not endeavor to hide my years; I do not wear a false front -all my hair is my own; I do not have my dresses padded and stuffed out "'- that this device was practised by Miss Snit her vivid color amply proved, but how Mrs. Bilter became acquainted with it will never be known-" / do not attempt to inveigle people into taking me for other than I am." "Very well, madam, very well," cried Miss Snit, her dress rustling like the leaves of a forest premonitory of a storm. But the storm did not break, for Harriet magnanimously interposed to carry off the superfluous electricity. She wished to both avert the threatened outhreak and obtain the information in quest of which she had come thither. She felt the lowering of herself involved in assisting at a conflict between two such women, and was anx- ious to hurry home so soon as her curiosity should be satisfied.  220         LOSING TO WIN. "But you have not yet told me what the advanced principle consist of." "Mrs. Bilter wheeled about and eyed her keenly; it was impos sible not to perceive that Harriet was much higher in social ran than those who usually visited the house. "You desire to know their principles," she said sarcasticalD "They may be summed up in one word-free-love." "Free-love," Harriet repeated, hardly understanding the mean ingl of the term, which nevertheless had an evil sound. Yes, free-love. The right of each woman, legally and morally to have as many husbands-as they call 'em-as often as the lease ; changing 'em every day if they choose." Harriet looked so unfeignedly shocked, that Miss Snit hastenec to reassure her. "No, no," she exclaimed; "Mrs. Bilter exaggerates. It is no free-love which we seek; not the abrogation of marriage as i should be, but the abolishment of marriage as it is. What w want is a larger, freer development for the soul; a wider circle wherein the untrammelled spirit may move without restraint. We are tired of social tyranny, of regulations which hamper our finel natures. Tyrant man has made all the laws which are now upor the statute books, and they therefore need the revision of woman's more delicate and sensitive spirit. To do this we must first vote That accomplished, the present social organization will be attacked, and it will certainly go down. Then, we shall no longer see mer and women yoked together for life in unhappy bondage, each complaining and hating the other, and seeing no release but death. In that happy time there will be no obstacle to their separating the instant they no longer love each other. It would be a crime for them to remain united; a mere declaration shall suffice to enable them to seek more congenial partners." She paused, quite out of breath with her rapid eloquence. Despite the intolerable amount of sack, Harriet's wits were keen enout}gh to see the pennyworth of bread; she could see that, though muddled and confused in their expression, Miss Snit's words, so far from refuting Mrs. Bilter's disparaging summary, both confirmed and explained it. Was this, then, whither led the theories she had unthinkingly adopted? Was this the blackness towards which the comical will-o'-the-wisps were dancing, the abyss to which they were showing the way?  Confused at the   HARRIET MAKES A CALL.         221 sudden revelation, almost stupefied at the appearance of the coun- tenance of Miss Snit's Veiled Prophet, she turned bewildered to Mrs. Bilter for elucidation. Something in Harriet's puzzled face seemed to bring an unpleasant reminiscence to that lady's mem- ory. She arose and sat by Harriet upon the sofa. "My dear young lady," she said, in a voice surprisingly tender for her; "I do not know who you may be, but let me warn you most seriously against being deluded by doctrines such as you have just heard. I remember one sweet girl who was led astray by them; her life is now ruined, and she a wreck. How much I may be responsible for it, I dare not think, but I will allow no other to enter the same path if I can prevent it. What that person has said about the present objects of the Woman's League is perfectly true. For months I have seen these ideas making way amongst us; for months I have seen shameless women taking the places of those who could- demand the suffrage and yet be honest. They have at last the upper hand. I have resisted, struggled to my utmost, but in vain. And now I retire from the contest, de- feated. I cannot change my opinions, the mental habits of a life- time; but, take my advice, heed what I say; if you are 'in any manner connected with them, withdraw immediately whilst you can." A solemnity in her voice-and it was really pathetic to hear her warning against the result of the doctrines she had devoted a life to spreading-prevented the voluble Miss Snit from replying. She did not open her lips until they were again in the street, having left Mrs. Bilter sitting amongst her shattered fancies, like a petticoated Marius amongst the ruins of which time has invested him with the sole proprietorship. "Well, Miss Harriet," she began eagerly, " what do you- " s Go way, you horrid thing," cried Harriet, turning upon her energetically, much to the delight of some small boys who came running up to see the fun; "I am ashamted of myself for speak- ing to you. You are an abominable creature. If you ever dare speak to me again I'll call the police." She walked hastily away, to the disappointment of the small boys, who had expected a fight at the least, leaving Miss Snit pet- rified with an astonishment from which she did not recover until Harriet was around the corner. Then she shook her head and went slowly to her boarding-house.     222         LOSING TO 'WIN. Harriet was too angry and excited to think of riding, and so walked home to recover her equanimity. She was in a state of high dudgeon at Miss Snit and herself; most angry at herself for having advocated woman's rights, even in jest, and furious at hav- ing walked with and talked to a woman who dared speak such doctrines. Luckily for Mr. Rolm, he did not call that night. Had he done so, he would have passed a very lively evening.   CHAPTER XXVI. "LY ILLUSTRATES WOMEN'S RIGHTS. TH  AT is a peculiarly impressive scene in the opera Robert le Diable, when Alice is standing between the tempter and the cross, fluctuating and wavering between the two, hesitating towards which to turn. Darkness encircles her, no ray of light pierces the black mask hiding heaven from view, dull and heavy the thick clouds lower around her. On one side is the cross, bare and but faintly seen through the clinging shade ; it can be reached only by groping through the gloom. Opposite, flicker red flashes from the gaping mouth of hell, shifting and thrusting out long arms as to embrace. Behind, is the fierce-eyed Bertram, urging, entreating, imploring. She must yield; there is no escape; an implacable resistless fate moves her slowly forward. Drawn by influences against which she is for the moment powerless, her feeble resist- ance succumbs; she advances nearer and yet nearer to the lurid light, to the wide-mouthed pit. Suddenly she stops, her eyes are opened, the scales fall from them. With a last supreme exertion, a powerful assertion of her better self, she rushes to cling to the cross, and then comes the grand song of victory won and destroyer baffled. When Lily left her uncle, she ran up. stairs to her room and locked the door behind her. She wanted to be alone. She was frightened, terrified and horror-stricken, at what she had just learned of her uncle's character. He had always appeared to her as an easy-going man, of a placid, lazily good-natured disposition -certainly as one of the last in the world to commit a crime and add the further offence of attempting to pay its penalty vicariously; of constructing and setting in motion a Juggernaut car and then throw- ing under its wheels one innocent of all wrong. Could he indeed be such as he had described himself? Yes; there could be not the shadow of a doubt about that. It was very strange, she thought     224         LOSING TO WIN. dimly, that she should have lived for so long a time in daily con- tact with him, and judged him to be so different; that she could have associated with him so closely and not catch a glimpse of the ugly worm that lurked beneath the surface. Now, it seemed to her as though there were two distinct Mr. Whartons: the one kind, smiling, good-humored and somewhat commonplace; the other white, with staring eyes and passion-contorted face, his con- science seanmed and riven as is the bald side of a mountain, de- mianling from her, with hoarse voice, a sacrifice greater than that d(c1and(cd front Isaac: his was but bodily; this would be both phylsical and nmental. The former Mr. Wharton she remembered gratefully and fondly as her uncle; the latter Mr. Wharton she tlhouu't t of as one who asked the greater sacrifice. It \would be a sacrifice-anI unendurable one. Allington was a I)pleasatst man to converse with, an agreeable friend; but as a hus- band-she shuddered with quick thrills. The word would not go from her mind. It was horrible to think of him in that light; ex- ercising the familiarity, the rights-no, no, she could nuo ,ndure the idea. She arose from the bed on which she had been lying and paced the flou, r in unconIscious imitation of her uncle. \Vhat should she do? Her uncle's words sparkled before her as had spIarkled upon the wall the doom of the Assyrian king: "It you reftuse to marry Daul Allington, you condelnn me to a felon's cell." \V-hat should she do? On every side her looks fell upon objects which put her uncle's prophecy in a more vivid light. The eyes of the colored photoograph of Harriet, hanging above the mantel-piece, looked down upon her Fwith a pleading gaze, pleading preservation from shanme. That alabaster hand had been given her only a few days ago; the rings upon it were presents made at different times. Could she break up the happy household, send its head to prison, bow her cousins with degradation and banish them from the city? It was cruel, cruel to thrust such a responsibility upon her; heart- less to make her the arbiter of their fortunes. And Allington? So this was the result of his courtly atten- tions during the summer. His graceful, delicate consideration could culminate only in a dastardly attempt to gain by fraud what he might not have openly obtained; to coerce her into giving what she might otherwise have refused. Her cheeks flamed ; her lip   "LY ILLUSTRATES WOMEN'S RIGHTS.       225 curled. Instinctively she had distrusted him; instinctively sus- pected that his character was but vaneering over a coarser foun- dation. She had thought that she could detect false notes in the harmony of his life. Her suspicions -were now verified; the false notes jangled loud and harsh. What a base, ignoble nature must be his to thus take advantage of wrong-doing to compel still greater wrong. The dim perception of his real mind which she had acquired during the summer's association strengthened into a clear recognition of his selfishness as she pondered upon this. It especially irked her that she was to be forced into giving her consent; she was to have no option in the matter; she was not consulted; she had been disposed of, and it only remained now for her to acquiesce. This was a humiliating aspect, which became more prominent as her mind dwelt upon it. She strove in vain to imagine some cause for her uncle's crime. What could he have done ; what could have induced him to it? She had not failed to notice that lately he had been almost continually absorbed in thought : was he then thinking about this crime? She could not tell, and at length desisted in weary despair. All the side issues which she, considered, all the lanes of thought which she entered led to the same point. Could she or could she not yield to Mr. Wharton's passionate request? Poor Lily! It was a sore trouble for a young, inexperienced girl like, her to bend under, a hard problem for her to solve. Had Allington been less acquainted with her, had she seen less of him, known him less, she might have brought herself to reluctantly con- sent, and so have committed no more iniquity than is committed by thousands of women every year, who marry men towards whom they are indifferent. The marriage service is so construed that such people are considered not to perjure themselves ; and, indeed, they hardly do, for they know not the meaning of the oaths they swear. But Lily had been in his society so frequently, had been afforded so many opportunities to gauge him, that she knew she could never love him. She considered him a bad man; perhaps he had never done much wrong in his life, but that would be only because no occasion had called forth the qualities of evil lying dormant within him. Not formulated in words, not even placed in consecutive thought, her cloudy estimate of him gradually clari- fied into that judgment, assisted, it might be, by the occurrences of to-day. Decidedly, she could not marry such an one. IO     226        IOSING TO WIN. Lily had not been enough in society to regard the prospect of perjitry with equanimity. Nor did she understand that kind of existence in which husband and wife live apart. While she was thinking the dinner-bell rang. She sent word that she would not appear, but might come down stairs later in the evelin g; this was to prevent either of her cousins from com- ing to make inconvenient inquiry. But all this musing, this vague skirting around the question brougfht her no nearer to a decision. She must determine one way or the other. Which should it be? In her misery and woe she was half inclined to let chance decide. She was tired-tired of thinking so much and so long. The gas, burning low, did not suffice to more than faintly light the room. She lit all the burn- ers, turning themn on full. Then, the blaze was offensive, and she turned them off again, but not before a momentary glimpse in the mirror had shown her the reflection of a colorless face and dry, strain-ed-looking eyes. What should she do? Why had such a fearful responsibility been placed upon her? She wanted to do right; she wanted to do just that which wouldl be best. Stopping in her walk, she flung herself down by the side of the bed, and buried her head in the clothes. She prayed--prayed long and earnestly-not the fluent prayer, learned and said by rote, which flows so glibly from the lips as to be a mocl;ery, but the yearning, despairing prayer of a suffering heart. All her might of sorrow, all her intense torture under the weight of the momentous decision was expressed in the simple words, "( Oh, God, help me!" She rose to her feet, fortified in a resolution to do no wrong that good might come; the wrong would be positive and certain, the good indefinite and not to be relied upon.. Allington might keep his wAord with her uncle, but if she were to marry him and he were then to demand something further, something impossible, -what assurance would there be that he would not again resort to threats of exposure? Evidently, he would retain his power of severing the hair that upheld the sword. It could not be right for her to sell herself, to reduce herself to the level of an article of traffic, of which Mr. Wharton and Allington were the hucksters. No. Self-respect, maidenly modesty, her duty to herself, to her God equally forbade assent to any such unholy bargain. She would consider it no longer. She felt sure that she was acting   "LY ILLUSTRATES WOMEN'S RIGHTS.       227 well in so deciding ; acting well, whether her conduct were judged by a human or by a divine standard. But what effect would this decision have upon her uncle? She seated herself by the window and gazed absently out into the street. The last streaks of twilight were lingering in the sky; a pecu- liar glow was reflected downward upon the city, which contrasted oddly with the newly lit gas-lamps, blinking Off into the distance in long, even rows. But few persons were abroad. In the neigh- borhood where Mr. Wharton's house was situated, between the hours of six and eight the streets were silent and deserted. An unnatural quiet seemed to pervade the air, so hushed was every sound, so unbroken the stillness, ruptured only by the lumbering rattle of an occasional omnibus. At once, an idea came to Lily so sharply that she closed her eyes as if at a flash of lightning. Allington desired only her; if she were out of the way there would be an end of the whole matter. An ending easy for her uncle, one to which Allington could say nothing, and far preferable to her than. the spectacle of her uncle's anguish. She did not acknowledge the feeling to herself, but at the bottom of this thought was the unuttered reflection that were she to stay in the house she might yield through weariness, through sheer inability to continue the struggle; yield to her uncle's imploring grief, to his eager entreaties. But where could she go, to whom could she apply? No matter about that; she was not afraid. . She could find shelter at any hotel for the night, and on the morrow it would be easy to lose herself in the great city. She would have no trouble in living. ' She had a large share of her last quarter's allowance still untouched; besides, she could draw and paint, and play the piano, and talk French. There would certainly be no difficulty in making a living. She had heard Allington say that no woman who was willing to work had trouble in obtaining a situation. Only yesterday she had looked in for a moment at a woman's-rights meeting and had there heard the same statement. Poor little Lily! This plan seemed such an excellent means for saving both her uncle and herself, that-so innocent she knew not what dangers she was braving, what perils encountering-she adopted it upon the instant. Her preparations were soon made; a small handbag sufficed to contain all that she could take with her. Dressing     228         LOSING TO WIN.  herself plainly in black silk, putting on her most unootrusive bon- net and a pair of stout walking-boots, she opened her door cau- tiously, and going into the hall looked around. Not a person was in sight; she heard nothing but the faint clash of a fork. The coast was clear. Gliding swiftly down stairs, she opened the street door, hesi- tated a moment, and then, closing it softly, walked rapidly down the steps and around the corner, slackening her pace only when several blocks distant. Her first sensation was one of pure, unmixed relief. The intense nervous strain of the past two hours was immediately allayed. She was free, and almost as happy as she had been before the interview with Mr. Wharton, that now seemed like a long-distant nightmare. Sorry to leave her cousins, sorry to leave the house where she had passed many pleasant hours, Lily yet rejoiced that she had cut the Gordian knot. Allington would not execute his threat from pure revenge, she knew; she out of the wa), lie would remain quiescent and her uncle undisturbed. It was strange, but she did not once think of what interpretation Ilight be placed upon her thus leaving the house; without consid- ering the matter, it seemed as if all must be aware of her reason. 'Nor did it occur to her that she ran any danger in throwing herself, defenccless and alone, upon the city which is only too often like Oxford Street, that stony-hearted mother which drinks the tears of its children. Of course she had read and heard that bad peo- )ple existed, that nameless creatures flitted through the streets; the paler of each day acquainted her Lwith the fact of their personality. But, as withe all pure-minded women, such knowledge-if knowl- edge it might be called-slipped from her mind as dead leaves over solid ice. It never sank below the surface, there to ferment and rot. She walked on down Madison Avenue with a light, springy footstep, gladdened by the thought of preserving her uncle with- out the horrible necessity of immolating herself. The novelty of beings out at such an hour pleased her; the excitement of being out alone chased from her mind the succession of gloomy thoughts which, like the kingly apparitions shown Macheth, had for so long a while glided over her mental mirror. Her uncle's crime-whatever it might be-did not occupy much of her reflection. Like many good-hearted, generous souls,   "LY ILLUSTRATES WOMEN'S RIGHTS.      229 she was inclined to see the offence through the small end of the telescope, and the good qualities of the offender through the large; like them she was inclined to consider wrong as the result of an aberration of the intellect for which its unfortunate owner was to be more pitied than punished. She did not, could not en- tertain any scornful contempt for her uncle, any indignation at his weakness or anger at his wrong-doing; rather did she ex- perience a commiserating sorrow that disposed her to mourn for him, to pray for him, with but small diminution of her former affection; Reaching Twenty-third Street, she crossed over to Broadway and continued her downward course. She had not asked herself at which hotel she should apply for admission, but walked on, supposing that she would soon come to one. Fortunately the street is usually well filled in the early evening, and so she went on unmolested, though many turned to eye keenly this beautiful girl, moving so gracefully-for Lily possessed to perfection what most Amer'can women are deficient in, an easy, supple walk- her face illumined by a happy glow, unescorted and yet so evi- dently a lady. Each policeman whom she passed quietly fol- lowed her to the end. of his beat. Moreover, in the broad, well-lit thoroughfare no one dared accost her: there was that in her face which repelled impertinence or insult. The dazzling shop windows interested and amused her. She had never been much on Broadway, and, consequently, frequently stopped to look in at a window hung with chromos or fancifully colored silks. Several times, also, she stopped to-let the crowd pass, wondering where all the people came from and whither they were going. The walk was very agreeable, as a stroll on Broadway of an autumn evening always is. The clear, sweet air, the large, bright stars overhead ; below the flaring gas, the endless line of  blazing shops, all with doors wide open, the throngs of people full of life and activity, the venders of trifles at every corner, and even the numerous little flower-girls contribute their share of color and effect to the picture. , Lily's was a thoroughly healthy nature ; she therefore enjoyed as only such natures can what is called-though incorrectly-the animalisms of existence; colors, effects of light and shade, artistic workmanship, the sight of large buildings, the vista of a lamp-lit street, the odor of evening, and the sense of activity derived from the spectacle of moving masses.     230        LOSING TO WIN. Still croing down, not yet having reached any hotel which she recognized as such, she paused opposite Wallack's Theatre. Why she cdid so she could not have told, but she looked a few moments at the entrance, recalling how she had been there only a few days '"go, comin ill a cal-riage and dressed in evening dress. She \wouldl not have been astonished had she seen standing there the )oung IM11an whom she had seen standing at the wings amidst a cloud of shimmering dust. While thus looking, a man and woman passed her. The man looked sharpDl at her countenance, drew a long breath and whis- pered to his companion. Then as she moved on, they both dropped behin1d and followed her slowly. No policeman was near. A short distance brought Lily to the St. Denis. The stream of the street was running ll-dry now, and its bed began to be bare and cxt)osetd. The enltrance was crowded with loungers, but as Lily approached they moved aside civilly for her to enter. Going straight on, she walked to the office, where the only person was a clerk attentively readdig a newspaper. "I shouldl like a room here to-night, if you please." Struck by her voice, he lookled up, and in an instant was on hs ft-t. "Very sorry, ma'am, but it's against the rules of the house to let roomIls to single ladies." A suddlen sinking of the heart seized her; for the first time she distrusted herself, distrusted her capacity to get along so easily as she hadl thou-]ht; for the first time it occurred to lher that the path mriglht not he so slnooth to walk for a young girl who walked alone. Too abashed atl( dolwncast by this unexpected rebuff to venture another question, she turned away quickly and went out again in1to t}lc street. Tl'he man who had fallen back and the woman who had followed e cre still there; he, large, withl very wide shoulders, diamond pin in his ruffled shirt, ant dlull, dlead-black moustache; she, corpulent ;n(1d vulga-rl, but quietly attired. A\s Lily rceacled the corner of Tenth Street, where few shops wc rc op)en, and( where Broadway was lit but by distant lamps, the mann  stpped fol rward and said in a voice which he strove to render soft:  "*You'-re too pretty to be alone. Hadn't you better take my arm?"   "LV ILLUSTRATES WOMEN'S RIGHTS.      23I A sickish sensation came over her; a feeling of wild alarm at )eing thus addressed. For a moment she could not realize that ie had daredi speak to her; the next, she turned swiftly away and vould have run down Tenth Street, when the woman's form came )etween her and the man. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself," she declared ener- retically; adding to Lily, while the man walked on silently, "( Let ne help you, Miss. It's not safe for ladies like you to go alone." The woman's face was not prepossessing; there was a flavor about her words which Lily was too inexperienced to recognize as :hat of bad whiskey. Gratefully accepting the opportune aid, she valked with her to University Place, telling on the way of the iotel experience. "O' course," said the woman. "They never take single ladies it them big places. It wouldn't do, you know. There isn't a "ngle hotel in the city where they'd let you in," ,What then can I do?" exclaimed Lily sadly, thinking that perhaps, after all, she might be compelled to go back to her uncle's. "I know a house right here in Thirteenth Street where they let rooms regularly to young ladies that haven't got no other place to go to. I'll take you there if you like; the landlady's a friend of mine." ' Oh, thank you. I shall be so much obliged." "Come right up this street then." They went up University Place, the woman endeavoring to make herself agreeable. But there was a curious sort of sugges- tiveness in her talk, a strange kind of undercurrent, which vaguely alarmed Lily, she knew not why. Passing a large restaurant, just below where they should turn off to their destination, Lily involuntarily 'raised her eyes. They fell upon the figure of a man standing smoking at an open win- dow-it was the same whom she had seen at the brick-yard and at Wallack's. Again their eyes met. He started as he saw her, looked attentively at her companion, disappeared to be beside them. "t Do you know the character of this woman you are with?" he demanded abruptly. "No, no," said Lily, frightened at the strange encounter.     23 2        LOSING TO WIN. "She is the most infamous hag in New York. Be off with you," he continued to the person so flatteringly described. She slunk away, not daring to utter a word. He took Lily's arm and placed it within his own. -"Thank God, I saw you," he ejaculated fervently. "s You will never know what imminent peril you were in. Now, this is no time for ceremony. My name is Frederick Bayner, of the New York Globular. Vhat is yours?" "Lily Vevere," she answered readily, palpitating at the un- known danger she had escaped, but feeling trustful and confident that now she was safe, now she was in good hands. "Where do you want to go?" A thousand questions were trembling on his tongue, trying to force theInselves out as birds beat against the bars of a cage; but he considerately tried to spare her as many as he could. "I have nowhere to go-I have left my home-home to me no longer-I have been refused admittance at the hotel--I have no- where to sleep." The words came from her brokenly ; the diverted danger, the sense of being houseless and homeless, made her feel very, very lonely. Tears were in her eyes, and she clung more closely to his arm. it Never nmid," he said cheerily, too overjoyed to see her, to hear her, to have her with him to bestow much thought upon her trouble.  I will take care of you. Wait-yes, Frank's the per- SOIl. He led her up Eleventh Street, as a few weeks before Tommy Grains had led Little Silva; but how different. The one weak and worn, her life closed and put behind her; the other young and beautiful, the white pages of her life ready to be inscribed with whatever illumination should be written upon them.   CHAPTER XXVIIL A FRIEND IN NEED. HEY walked together without speaking. Frederick was afraid to ask any questions, lest he might unwittingly wound her. He could readily divine that if, as she said, her home was-a home for her no longer, it must be in consequence of some event which it would be well not to mention until she were safely housed and sheltered. But, like the well-known parrot, if he did not talk much, he thought all the more.; thought how lucky was his meet- ing her, how fortunate that he should have seen her just in the nick of time, though he would not allow himself to dwell upon what she had escaped. He was glad, glad beyond all expression, to have her there walking so naturally and so quietly by his side: it seemed, by some inexplicable process of his mind, as if he were perfectly accustomed to be with her. His thoughts had dwelt upon her so much, her image had been so constantly before him, that her corporeal presence appeared but, the proper supplement to his many musing dreams, a sequence so natural that it was scarcely surprising. He looked at her frank, sweet face, the eyes shadowed by the slightly drooping eyelids and all the brighter that the eyelashes were not long enough to dim their radiance; the smooth, soft cheek, now commencing to regain its delicate flush; the small, nervous mouth, the refined, well-rounded chin, the short, aquiline nose-it was hardly more real than the form which had for so long a time, measured by emotions, not by days, floated near him. The light touch of her arm as it gently rested upon his, thrilled him with a faint, delicious shiver. But although it was so real, so natural, it was yet like a dream. One moment, it would appear as though they must always have been walking thus for ages; the next, his arm would unintentionally tighten as though he wished to have a closer hold upon the bright vision which might fade and leave him to regret its loss.       234         LOSING TO WIN.              X It is an unresolvable medley of feelings which we undergo when in the company of some dearly loved one from whom much time has separated us. The sense of familiarity and yet of strange- ness; of accustomed concerns and yet of multitudinous single experiences; of propinquity yet of remembered distance-is so entangled and invXolv]ed that one seems sometimes strangely bewil- dcred. As inl those rare dreams wherein we retain a distinct con- sciousness of our own indi1iduality though passing without sur- rise thr-ough te Inost astonishing adventures, so the accidental meeting of long-parted friiends seems strange only upon subse- quent thought. At the moment, joy will be so powerful as to banish all other emotions, and only after the lapse of several days 'ill the impression settle itself into one resembling that produced by a more powerful dream than usual. Again and again dlidl Frederick silently thank fate, fortune, luck, whatekver it might be which had placed him at the restaurant win- dow to pelceive Lily and her companion. Just through dinner, for he had been (detained at the office, he had sauntered there to inhale the echening air. When seeing Lily he had hesitated as to tile icentity , for he had seen her guide at the prisoner's bar in General Sessions, and knew her to be one of the most infamous of all the infamous birds of prey in the city. He hesitated an in- stant, but an instant only; as Lily raised her eyes to his, the clea-, calrm, trustful gaze awakened him from his abstraction; he would find out what it meant, and in another moment the woman was scuttling away like an evil-minded crab. Lily only knew that she had been rescued from some impend- inc danner; what danger she lil not like to think. It was enough that shle was now, safe; that the peril was averted, and that all her tr)ubles were over for the present. She found it very pleas- ant to be wxalkixng with the man who, though seen but twice before, had so attracted her attention. She stole shy glances at him, thilikin-r that if he wras not strictly handsome, his face was at all events good-lookin(g and interesting. His was the kind of coun- tenance whicli demands notice and usually obtains it. The sombre beauty of the night, the quiet streets-it was the lull that comes )before the storm of sound aroused by the feet of returning theatre-  goers-the g'linmeri ng lights fascinated her as they had done earlier  ill the evening. But now fatigue and the reaction consequent upon too long-continued excitement began to tell upon her. Her ner-   A FRIEND IN NEED.         235 vous system was too highly organized not to resent any lengthy strain. Although they were going only from University Place to Broadway, she commenced to grow faint, her knees trembled be- neath her and little black spots danced before her eyes, She leaned heavily upon Frederick's supporting arm. "A few minutes more and we are there," he said as they came into Broadway. It was easy to cross the usually crowded street at this hour of the night, and the door of the building where Frank lived being open they ascended at once to her studio. Lily thought in after days how astonishing it was that she should have had such implicit reliance upon this stranger, such a blind confidence in his trustworthiness that she followed him without question. Escaped from one trap, she might have fallen into another; but that did not occur to her. I Had it done so she would have repelled the thought as a dishonorable doubt. She accepted Frederick's assistance and guidance as readily as they were proffered; for her it was impossible to mistrust them, im- possible not to take them with gratitude even. He had been so much in her mind that his sudden appearance was like that of an old friend, a tried and loyal friend. Who "Frank " might be she cared not, did not attempt to guess. Enough that it was some one upon whom her friend counted to provide her with shelter for the night. But as she stood before the door, her courage faltered. She was bashful about meeting a stranger under such circumstances. Frederick did not appear a stranger. How could she explain her leaving home without revealing her uncle's secret, which she felt, bound in honor to still keep a secret? How account for her presence there at that hour? Frederick seemed to partially read her thoughts, for he said as he gave a sounding rap upon one of the panels: "Do not distress yourself by trying to explain anything. Leave all that to me." The door was opened by Frank. "W!hy, Fred," she began, stopping short at the sight of his companion. "Frank," said he, entering with Lily, "let me introduce you to Miss Vevere. Owing to an odd concatenation of circumstance     236         LOSING TO WIN.  she is houseless for the night. Of course she cannot go to a hotel alone, so I brought her here."              ; "You did right, my dear boy," said Frank kindly, into whose large honest heart the desolate beautiful young girl seemed to nestle at once as a bird into its nest. "You did right, and I wish you always showed as much sense. Miss Vevere, come and sit down on this lounge, and I'll send Fred out for some supper. You must be tired and faint-you look so." "Very tired," said Lily, wearily sinking upon the yielding sofa and realizing from the delicious feeling of repose how worn out she was. Frederick started off immediately to see what he could procure, while Frank brought out a bottle with a very dingy label. "You must drink a glass of this old Madeira," she said, pouring it out as she spoke; " and you'll be the second person besides myself who has ever tasted it. I always keep it hid, for if my boys knew of it they'd tease my life out for a glass every time they came. Drink it right down; it's over fifty years old and as smooth as oil." The strong, generous wine was deserving of higher encomium than any bestowed upon it by Frank. Its rich, life-giving power ran fwith lightning rapidity through Lily's veins and revivified her inmediately, having all the more effect from her being totally unused to wine of any kind. Her blood seemed to tingle with fresher life, her eyes sparkled with the old light, the faded pink of her lips became stronger and more red. "Now-," resumed the artist, "t come into my bed-room, where you can take off your bonnet and wash your face and hands." Her hearty welcome touched Lily to the quick. "How good you are to me-a stranger," she said gently, holding out her hands. "M1y clear," said Frank softly, laying a hand upon her shoul- der, "I have learned that the more good we do others, the better it is for ourselves. Besides, no one could help being kind to you." She suddenly bent forward and kissed Lily. "There! You must excuse me; I don't often do such things, but this time I had to." Frank's heart had warmed towards Lily as tinder warms at a  . burning-glass. Frederick would no doubt explain the reason of his bringing her there; Frank knew most of his acquaintances, IIN/1,   A FRIEND IN NEED.         237 but had never before heard of this one. Miss Vevere would cer- tainly tell what was that concatenation of circumstance which left her without shelter. All that would come in due time. For the present, rest and refreshment were to be thought of; supper was the first consideration. This speedily arrived in a shape which caused Frank to gaze at it open-mouthed. It came upon a large tray covered with a white cloth, and borne by a waiter whose astonishment at his surroundings was equalled only by Frank's surprise. It kept her silent until the various dishes were disposed upon the table, and the waiter vanished, leaving behind him the memory of a highly elaborate bow and a strong suspicion of hair-oil. Then she found a voice. "Frederick," she cried, "you wicked, extravagant youth! What do you mean by such conduct? I am shocked at your flinging away money in this manner. How are you ever to pay for all this gorgeousness?" "It's paid for already," he said quietly. "But how on earth-oh, I see. Where's your watch, you bad boy? I declare, you've gone and spouted it." ( Well, that's all right," he said in a lower tone. ( I'll take it out Saturday when I get my money. Don't make such a row or she'll hear you," he added, nodding towards the bed-room. But Lily had overheard the brief dialogue. Like most girls she had been bred under the influence of that chivalrous American feeling which dictates that no woman shall, if possible, be aware of the existence of money; and had never hitherto paid any atten- tion to it. Now, she found herself brought face to face with the hard fact that not only did money exist, but that it was an essential element of even her life. Frederick had pawned his watch to pay for her supper. She had plenty of money of her own in her bag, but how could she repay him? The idea was abandoned so soon as conceived. She did not consider it in the light of a joke as did Frank. Tears came into her eyes; it seemed so like abject poverty to have any transaction with a pawnbroker. When she joined Frederick and the artist, she gave no sign of what had been passing in her mind, but sat at the table looking and partially feeling as gay as either. In every nature there is something which prompts one at times to escape from convention- ality and live somewhat out of the ordinary fashion. Not infre-     238         LOSING TO WIN. quently is this feeling stronger with women than with men; their lives bein, so much more restricted and hampered by the necessity of preservinig appearances. They have no safety valves for-so to speak-letting off superfluous steam, and so occasionally commit very queer actions, when, had the safety valve been provided, 1ot}ling out of the common would have occurred. They often feel so rei)ressed, that any variation of the monotony, however slight, is cgladtully welcomed. This is one of the reasons why they are so fond of departing from the well-ordered strictness of a regulation eal, and dce!ght to organize a picnic, or put upon the table an aboziniabDle colpDound called a " tea-dinner," wher, e an oyster-stew elblowxs jelly, cake the roast beef, buttered toast pickles, coffee the soulp) and fruit the fish-all wildly Ilingled together. Liy- had enough of this feminine characteristic to enjoy the suIIpper; enjoy its strangeness, its oddity. For the moment all rttlcection, recollection, was driven from lher; she thought of nothing but the i)resent, and so the meal passed off pleasantly. 5he discovered, also, that she was hungry; thinking over her unlcle's words had made her careless of dinner, deprived her of the appetite which her long walk and   subsequent excitement restored to her as though it were another Antaeus and had gained strength by falling. Frederick thought that he could sit and look at her forever; her sweet face aglow, her bright eyes sparkling, her clear, resonant voice ringing lightly through the room. She evidently enjoyed it SO Iuch. Frank likewise shared this feeling. It seemed a dream to have her dusty, shabby studio or workshop lit up by the light of youth and beauty laughing and happy; glorifying all the worn surroulndings by the loveliness whose traces would always linger in the apartment. Youth, beauty and mirth! She sat back from the table, watching with shaded eyes the young man and the youn, goirl talking lightly and laughing frequently. As the eyes of Frederick turned upon Lily, Frank could read them; could see the gleam, gloving like the core of a fire, in whose reflection that youth wouthl never are, that beauty never face, that mirth never lose its merry note. To her it was as if reading a new poem by e4eats. They   wNere interrupted by a violent crash and clanging which, without %aZ'lling, proceltdel fIrom one of the shelves. Lilystarted, as didl Fredlerickl, and e1\-e1 1I-'tlnk gave t slig-lt stLart. 6 Znt{    I 1         A FRIEND IN NEED.         239 , What the deuce is that? cried Frederick, so soon as the :: horrible din permitted him to make himself heard. "It sounds like a dozen steamboat gongs having a free fight." "Not so bad as that," replied Frank laughing. "It's only an alarm clock Tommy gave me the other day. He said that when I turned you out so early a few days ago I ought to know what respectable hours were. So he bought the clock and set it at half- past ten. It goes off at that time, and, you must go too, Fred." He took his departure, saying that he would come again on the morrow, experiencing a cheerful warmth about the region of the heart. Frank loaded the tray with the emply dishes, placed it in the hall outside the door, and then turned the key, remarking: ( Now we are alone for the night. If the waiter steps into that tray it's his lookout and not mine." With this she seated herself upon the lounge and beckoned Lily to her side. "You can tell me, my dear, just as much or just as little about yourself as you choose. I do not want to inquire into anything you may prefer to be silent about, but I should like to know how long you have been acquainted with Frederick." "Frederick?"Lily repeated interrogatively. She knew per- fectly well whom Frank meant, but wished to say his name out loud herself, and hear how it sounded from her own lips. "Yes-Frederick Bayner." "Let me tell you all," said Lily, nestling to her side. "I must tell some one. When he was here I was lively and almost for- got what happened this afternoon. But now-I don't know why -I am melancholy, down-hearted. Perhaps, after all, I was wrong, but I did what I thought was best. It was all I could do. You are so kind, so bood, that I know you can tell me if I was right." Frank's hand went around her waist, Frank's arm drew her closer until her clustering curls rested upon her shoulder. "Tell. me what you will, my dear child, if it give you any com- fort." Then Lily told her all the events of the day; how she had been summoned to see her uncle in the library; the proposal for her hand by Allington; of her uncle's arguments, pleadings, of his confession. and the dire alternative placed before her. She told 1      240         LOSING TO WIN.               . of the mental conflict with herself, of her waverings, doubts, and of how she had finally fled. Then of her walk down town; of her attempt at the hotel, her being accosted, the pretended friend, and how Frederick had seen her and brought her here. She began the recital in a level voice, but before concluding, the thought of all that she had passed through, the memory of her cousins, whom she had seen perhaps for the last time, broke her down. The factitious excitement which had so far sustained her, vanished ; in its place came a healthier state. Crying softly, she le]cned upon her new friend, to whom she already clung con- fidingly. "I cannot say that you did wrong," answered Frank slowly. "It is hard to have such a choice as was offered you. I think upon the whole that you did well. Had you remained, you would probably have been bullied or frightened into doing as your uncle wanted, and so have secured for yourself a life of mis- er). I am glad you told me this, for it makes me know you bet- ter, and I like vou enough to be pleased with that. It is bedtime now; you swill sleep where you washed. We can talk of this again in the morning, and then you will see another person whom I wish you to know." Bidcling Lily good night, Frank lay down upon the lounge, there to obtain what sleep she could, and dream fragmentary dreams as confused and jumbled as were the ideas produced by Lily's nar- rative and the light she had seen glowing in Bayner's eyes. j   CHAPTER    XXVTIII. ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON. OWEVER    great may have been the grief of Agamemnon, one may reasonably question if it excelled or even equalled that of the luckless Iphigenia. Indeed, it is very likely that the maiden, while yielding to her sentiments of filial obedience, failed to perceive the urgent necessity of her sacrifice; perhaps she went so far as to doubt the authenticity of the gods demanding her life. She must certainly have entertained anything but a high opinion of them. Her loss was probably a great blow to the heroic father, but, unless human nature has changed inversely with the last three thousand years, his feelings of sorrow were strongest when the sacrifice was first demanded. As he dwelt upon the idea, think- ing what would be accomplished, this would merge into a desire to make the offering, and that, in its turn, give place. to a resolve that it should be effected. In all likelihood this resolve so over- balanced his personal consideration that had any interfering event prevented its doing, he would have been sincerely disappointed. After the mind is made up, it is unpleasant not to be permitted to make a martyr of oneself. But if Iphigenia had run away, he would have spared no pains to recapture her; upbraided her violently, and insisted upon the performance of the sacrifice, keep- ing his sorrow until later. Thus it was with Mr. Wharton. By a powerful effort he had brought himself to own to Lily his crime, he had humbled him- self before her, showed to her innocent eyes the spectacle of covered darkness where she had hitherto found but light. The confession cost him much. Only the continual remembrance of Allington's threat, which would not down, of public exposure, could force him to appear to her a self-confessed criminal. But now that he had done so, now that she knew all his weakness and his guilt, he felt that she owed him the reparation of acceding II     242         LOSING TO WIN. to his request. It was not an unnatural feeling, however false and illogical. He did not look upon her marrying Allington as any very great sacrifice. To be sure, he hardly relished giving her to a man who would woo his bride in such fashion, but he thought -and thought correctly-that Allington had put on that pressure only to be certain of success. This was a minor consideration; the great object, the serpent which swallowed all others, was to save himself. Lily must marry some time, must marry some man. \Vhy not Allinrtonll as well as any one else? Like many middle- aged men, Mr. W\harton looked upon his family as his personal prop()lrty, thinking that its members should obey him implicitly, unquestioningly. In any conflict of opinion he could not realize that there should be a will differing from his. She must agree with him. She might revolt a little at first-that was to be ex- pected. No girl wyould like to be told that she must marry a cer- tain man. But a day or two would be sufficient for this natural ebullition to subside, and then the affair would be satisfactorily arranged. Lily would see what was best, exercise common sense, accept Allington, and he would be safe. Safe! He drew a long breath at the word. The consequence of his wrong-doing had been that day set so plainly before him that for the first time he saw his crime in all its dark deformity. As though it were under a microscope, he could see each detail, each minute radiation leading from it. Disgrace, perhaps punish- ment to himself; a deeper disgrace to his children, and lives of poverty, unrelieved by friendship, to be led in cheerless solitude. Now, howtever, Lily would consent, the secret remain forever un- disturbed, and he would give up speculating, and all would be as before. By constant dwelling upon the idea that Lily would accede to his wishes, he in a short time brought himself to look at the matter as thou'-gh she lhad actually done so. The relief from the predica- ment into which Allingrton's visit had thrown him was so great that he took his seat att the dinner-table with a face clearer than it liad beenl for Inany dacys. He resembled most people in judging that a wrong ackno\wledged is more than half atoned for, and, having openly avowe(1 his crime, felt as if he could forgive himself and be reiznstattcd in his own self-respect. Thet change ill his'lapplearalnce was so marked that his daugh- ters-comnmentted upon it, and congratulated him upon being rid of   ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON.        243 the cares which had woried him. He received the congratulations easily, as though he were deserving of them, and actually began to think that somehow he had done quite a commendable deed than otherwise in urging Lily toward the marriage. When word came down that she was suffering from a headache, he selected the food to send her himself, accompanied by a glass of his best wine. When the servant returned saying that, no answer being received to her knocking, she supposed Miss Lily was asleep, Mr. Wharton charged the girls to be sure and make her a visit to see if she wanted anything before they went to bed. He then resumed his listening to Harriet's account of how she had passed the afternoon and made a call upon Mrs. Bilter, with its results. It so happened that neither Harriet nor Eliza found an oppor- tunity that evening to go up stairs and see Lily. Immediately after dinner came Eliza's latest clerical admirer, "Father Joles," and Harriet maliciously staid in the same parlor to prevent a tete-A-tete until bedtime. Passing the door of Lily's room, Harriet stopped and listened. "I hear nothing," she whispered. "She is probably asleep. It will be better not to disturb her*' But the next morning, when Lily did not appear at breakfast, the cause of this silence was explained and the truth known. Going to summon her, Harriet opened the door and looked in. No sign of Lily was to be seen. She called: "Lily! Lily!" There was no answer. Pale, trembling, fearing some vague calamity, Harriet looked closely about the room, and then ran down stairs. "Lily is gone." "Gone! What do you mean?" cried Mr. Wharton, his face flushing, as a dreadful suspicion shot through him. "She is nowhere ; I have called and she does not answer. She is-not in her room--the bed has not been slept in.." In an instant, by some inexplicable means of communication, all the servants seemed to have become aware that something out of the common was taking place. They flocked up into the hall, evincing all the eager delight. peculiar to their class, to hear bad news. -   Mr. Wharton soon sent them  about their business, and then ?  begran a thorough search of the house. It was as Harriet had said t -Bt '     244         LOSING TO WIN. -no sign of Lily was anywhere to be seen. Nearly an hour elapsed before the search was abandoned, so loth is the mind to accept an unusual event, although the girl's maid declared that she knew it meant something when she broke a looking-glass three weeks ago. Eliza and Harriet sat in the parlor, discussing the mysterious disapp)earance, and vainly endeavoring to discover some clue to it. KnuIwing Lily so well as they did, they exhausted themselves in surnmises and conjectures, the last one bringing them no nearer to a conclusion than the first. She was so open-hearted, that they were both persuaded her running away could not be the culmina- tionl of a long-pIondered secret. It must therefore be the result of some sudden determination. But what? That it was sponta- neous they were also equally sure. She was not the girl to take such a step upon the advice of another; too innocent and pure to tave aty clandestine attachment. What then could have made her -o? It was reasoning in a circle. Every trait of her character showed( them-apparently-irrefragable reasons for her remaining, and yet she Bwas gone. Eliza finally gave up elucidation with a sigh, and went to morning service that she might see Father Joles and ask his advice upon the matter, as she did about everything which interested her. Harriet stayed at home, wandering over the house in an aimless way, closely pursued by the maid who was bursting with curiosity to learn the details of this strange affair; feeling a vague sort of sickness as though some calamity were impending which she was powerless to avert. Only at intervals could she shake off this sensation and account for it by its legiti- mate cause. Even then it all appeared odd, unreal-like a too vivid nightmare. When 'Mr. Wharton definitely ascertained that Lily had indeed left the house, he walked, almost ran to his library, where he locked himself in, shutting the door quickly. He must be alone to think. What effect would not this have upon his fortune? Before long, Aillinglton would come. There would be no opportunity for equi- vocation, no chance for prevarication. He must tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, as they say in court. Court! The word made him shudder. Suppose AIlington would not be amenable to reasoni, but insist upon denouncing him then and there ; refuse to believe him, say that Lily had disappeared at his instance, and call in the police? What should he do?   ".:-;('    ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON.        245 The wretched man dropped his face upon his hands and groaned aloud. The flush had died away from his face to be succeeded by a leaden pallor; the lines of care around his mouth and eyes deep- ened into rough wrinkles. What could he do were Allington to denounce him? Could he live through it? He remembered the words about the guardian who had committed suicide, and his face sank yet lower upon his hands. At length a thought occurred to him. He rose and looked about nervously. The irresolution passed from his countenance; the lines of care hardened into those of inflexible purpose. "Yes," he murmured, rubbing his forehead. "I will do that. Let them suspect what they please; they can never know the truth." Going to his bed-room, he soon returned with something hidden under his coat. When the door was again locked, he drew out that something; it was a loaded revolver. Acting with the thought- ful, deliberation of one who intends to carefully lay his plans, so that no mischance shall prevent their successful carrying out, he moved a chair for himself back of the table at the further end of the room, and placed the pistol under a carelessly disposed paper so that, sitting, it might be ready to his hand. Before laying down the weapon he cocked it, and saw that the chamber was filled with cartridges, revolving easily. He then lit a cigar, and occupy- ing the chair, tried to while away the time until Allington should arrive. But his hand shook; he could not convey the cigar steadily to his mouth; he could-not keep his eyes removed from the pistol; they were continually fastening upon it with a morose satisfaction. That, at least, would speedily solve all difficulties. Should Allington dare to threaten calling upon the law, should he suspect that Lily had been removed by Mr. Wharton, and attempt to meet what he might think trickery by legal violence -two bullets would cut the matter short. Let the outside world imagine that they had quarrelled, that Mr. Wharton was a mur- derer and a suicide; anything but that he was a forger and be- trayer of trust. Within the last day he had become accustomed to calling him- self hard names, and now that his ear was used to the harsh sound, took a grim delight in applying those unpleasant titles; But the- words murderer, suicide, hardly seemed applicable. They sounded strange and out of place. If he did shoot Allington and then himself, it would be wrong to qualify him with such disagreeable ,t      246         LOSING TO WIN. nomenclature. He had always pictured a murderer as a ruffian of the Sykes order; a course, brutal face sodden with sin, a heavy slouching figure. A suicide was a pale emaciated man hanging by his neck from the beam of a squalid garret. It was impossible that he should be c,lled murderer and suicide-he, the respectable gentleman who shaved every morning, living on Murray Hill, a man in the first circles of city society. Such names did very well to designate common people, but would never be applied to him. The magic words " mental aberration "--a cloak wide enough to shelter all wickedness-would explain his case. Any way, let the world style him what it pleased; he would kill the secret and its owner, should the discoverer threaten or disbelieve him. On that point his mind was made up, firmly, unalterably. His face hardened and darkened with more of resolute purpose than it had known for a long timne, as he sat there with his eyes fastened upon the pistol, seeing distinctly through the newspaper just how the barrel pointed, and what a wicked air was given it by the little brass sight on the end; awaiting his promised visitor. A knock at the door did not dispel his meditations, but rather gave them an embodiment. Unlocking it, he admitted Allington, and dismissing the servant, resumed his seat in the neighborhood of the revolver. The usual civilities passed. Allington drew up a chair to the side of the table opposite Mr. Wharton, and sitting down uttered the brief monosyllable: W Well?" Even those few minutes sufficed for Paul's keen, searching eyes to notice how haggard was Mr. Wharton's countenance; but in addition to this haggardness, in addition to the worn, weary look was an expression which, though strong, he could not de- fine; though plainly perceptible as if inviting his inspection, it was yet written in characters he could not decipher. Receiving no response, his eyebrows slightly contracted, he repeated in a sharper, more imperative tone: \rell?" "I have bad news for you, Mr. Allington ; bad news for both you and me." "I do not understand you." ( After you left me yesterday afternoon I sent for my niece,   ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON.        247 v, -- Miss Vevere. We had along conversation together upon the subject of which you spoke "-hesitatingly, he paused. ("And she consented?" asked Paul eagerly, his eyes kindling. No." And Mr. Wharton's hand stole softly up the table, stole over the smooth surface until it rested upon a newspaper lying there, with whose edges it toyed. , Explain yourself, if you please," demanded Allington imper- atively, unconsciously-assuming the tone of command to which he felt that he had a right by virtue of his knowledge. A fanciful observer, knowing the relations between these two men, knowing. Mr. Wharton's previous preparations, might have thought that the dense shadow brooding in the corner behind Aillington grew denser and deeper;. that it started forward with embracing folds as his knitted countenance was turned towards the man whom he held in his power. "Did you tell her all?" he resumed. "Did you tell her that you had betrayed your trust, falsified the confidence bequeathed to you by the dead? Did you tell her that you were a criminal- a forger?"' The dense shadow was nearing him; its thick, deadly grasp was closing around him as Mr. Wharton's hand slid under the newspaper. "I did," he answered in a low tone; "I told her everything." The dark shadow came steadily closer and closer. It gathered about Allington in a threatening mass when Mr. Wharton raised his head quietly, looking him in the face, the energy of his purpose giving him sudden courage. "I have said that I told her all;" he spoke slowly; "all, and implored her to accept you as the only means whereby I could be saved from the Tombs. At first she refused; then, demanded time to think. That was but reasonable. This morning we dis- covered that she had secretly, unnoticed by any one, left the house- " "Left the house!" cried Allington starting to his. feet. "And none knew her purpose?" "No," said Mr. Wharton, defiantly, his fingers closing tightly around the butt of the pistol. "Do you believe me, or not?" The dusky shadows surrounded Paul Allington, dusky fingers : clutched at him as he walked the floor, Unconscious of Mr. Whar- ton's deadly solution. rie      248         LOSING TO WIN. He could not tell what to think. It might be true, and yet- Mr. Wharton might have sent her away in response to her solici- tation or on his own motion, so as to avoid giving the answer so much desired. Which was true? For some minutes he revolved the matter, unable to find a conclusion. Then came the other question : what was he to do? Carry out his threat to the letter and have Mr. Wharton arrested? To what good? Using the secret merely as a means, this would bring him no nearer his end, more likely remove him the farther from it. On the other hand, if the story were true, the sooner they set out in pursuit of Lily, the better; if it were false, by feigning belief he would surely, * sooner or later, light upon some clue to her whereabouts. "I do believe you," he said at length. The dense shadow was dissipated, it dissolved, drifting away; the dusky fingers drew back discomfited, and Mr. Wharton's hand came from beneath the newspaper. Paul Allington never knew how near the solemn shadow had been to him, never knew how narrowly he had escaped being clasped to its misty bosom. He had no longer occasion to study Mr. Wharton's face for an explanation of the strange writing. The illegible characters had vanished ; in their place was an expression of relief for which he could not account. "\ Now,", and he sat down again: "tell me about this myste- rious disappearance." "s There is little to tell. She must have gone some time between five last night anti nine this morning. She did not come to din- ner, sa'ying that she had a headache." "\Vas the bed slept in?" "i No. "Not even pressed, as though she had sat or lain upon it?" "I did not notice." "I will notice then. Show me her room." 1Mr. Wharton could not hesitate. Much to the amazement and no small indignation of Harriet, Allington was ushered up stairs into Lily's bed-room. At any other time he would have experi- enced a thrill upon passing this threshold, for even his nature could not fail of response to the sanctity which hovers about the sleeping apartment 'of a young girl. But on this occasion he was too excited to feel such emotions; his mind was too filled with thoughts of pursuit to have space for recognition of the dainty   ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON.        249 atmosphere, to be susceptible to the tender influences of the spot. "Did no one go to see her during the everting?" "I sent up some dinner about eight, but the servant received no response when she knocked." "Did neither of the young ladies go in to ask if she wanted anything?" Harriet, called up stairs, acknowledged, very much abashed, that neither she nor Eliza had entered the room, "Who knows her wardrobe?" asked Allington. "The maid, I suppose," said Harriet, her curiosity in the ama- teur detective hunt conquering her indignation. The maid being summoned, announced, after a brief inspection, exactly what Lily had taken with her. "We must go first to Police Headquarters," said Allington. "It is very evident that she left the house while you were at dinner. She could not have passed out unseen during the evening, and if she had gone early this morning she would have lain upon the bed for a- while at least, whereas it has been only sat upon. She took few clothes, but then you say that she has all her jewelry, her watch and her quarter's allowance." A few minutes saw the two men on their way to Mulberry Street. Applying for a skilful detective, Mr. Tudder was sent for, and on his appearance presented to them as one of the best men on the force.        . "Let me see," he said, rubbing his nose thoughtfully when the circumstances had been narrated. "Left between six and eight, carried a small travelling-bag, an' wore a black dress. I think I know something about the party. Was she acquainted in the city?" "Very little." It was Mr. Wharton who spoke. Mr. Tudder stepped to the door and shouted for Johns, who came in the shape of a patrolman. "Tell these;/gentlemen what you was telling me this morning about seeing a young lady alone last night." "Well, there ain't much about it," said Johns, shifting his cap from hand to hand. A"You see, my beat's from Fourteenth Street to Eleventh, and then over into Eighth Avenue. Well, just as I was turning into Broadway last night, about half past seven or nIi     250         LOSING TO WIN. eight, I wouldn't be sure which, I see a mighty pretty lady a-going down the street. She was alone " "NWhat did she look like?" "Well, I didn't notice very close. She had kind o' brown hair an' light eyes an' small mouth; about the medium size an' walked good an' easy. Dressed in black, she was, too, an' had a little bag in her hand. She looked like a first-class lady, an' as I thought 'twas mighty funny she should be out alone so late, I just walked along after her-it was on my beat, you know." "Where did she go? What did she do?" asked Allington impetuously. "( Well, she just walked along, stopping every now an' then. to look in a winder, until she came to the Saint Denis Hotel. She went in there for a minute, but come right out again. I sup- pose- Never mind what you suppose," interrupted Mr. Tudder. "That's my part of the business. Tell us what you saw." "Well, as she was goin' on down, I see Sliced Cucumbers-" "You saw what?" asked Allington. "Oh," said Mr. Tudder, "he's one o' the Houston Street gang; capper for a keno bank over in the Bowery. Go on, Johns." A"Well,- I see Sliced Cucumbers an' Mother Skruggs come up, an' the lady went down Tenth Street with the old woman." !"What does he mean?" said Mr. Wharton. Allington shiv- ered. "Never mind," said Mr. Tudder. "It's all light, so ship the particulars. Go on, Johns." The patrolman continued his story, telling how he had fol- lowed Lily, thinking that she might need rescue, when his purpose was forestalled. He had seen whither the young man conducted her, and then, having no right to interfere, had resumed his police pronlenade. "( I thought it was all straight then," he said, "for I've seen that young feller round Headquarters here. He's a reporter on the Globular." "What is his name?" inquired Paul. "Bayner, I think." "Yes, that's it;' added Mr. Tudder. "Now, if you gents will give me a lift in your carriage, you'll find your lady in ten minutes."   ALLINGTON AND MR. WHARTON.        25I Less time than that brought them to Grace Church. Mr. Tudder made a few inquiries which were so successful that Mr. Wharton and Paul Allington, the detective being dismissed with a handsome gratuity for himself and the patrolman, soon stood before the door on which was the name, "Frank! Sturdy."     CHAPTER XXIX. AN OLD SIN. 5 5rWHEN Lily awoke on the morning after her flight and found herself in Frank's room, she gazed about several minutes before recollecting where she was and how she came there. The sight of the cheap chromos and the numerous plaster evidences of the artist's ingenious industry, at first seemed to her strange and out of the way. She had paid no attention to them the pre- vious evening, when, fatigued, exhausted almost, her only thought hall been to rest as soon as possible, and give her wearied body and mind the refreshing repose they both so much needed. She awoke quietly, calmly opening her eyes without effort, as one volun- tarily awakens after sweet slumber that has entirely repaired all physical and psychical damage; conscious alone of a blissful state of beatific lassitude. Half dreaming, the mists of sleep not yet quite rolled away from her brain, she lay there until the remem- brance of her situation caused her to turn and bury her face in the pillow with a low, stifled moan. Now that she had definitely cut herself loose from her uncle and her uncle's household, she felt the full effect of what she had done. The exaltation of her mind from the time of her interview with 'Mr. W\harton until she had fallen asleep from sheer weari- ness to dream sluggish and unformed dreams; the surexcitation of her thoughts had raised her to such a pitch that she hardly saw the ground upon which she trod.  This morning it lay plain before her, hard, rugged, stony even. A sad sickening sense of desolation came upon her as she thought it over, not consecutively, but by fits and starts without logical sequence. She was alone in the world, and must henceforth take care of herself. There was no longer any one to watch over her, provide for all her wants, anticipate every necessity so that she should not even perceiNve there was a necessity. Fortunately for Lily--in this   AN OLD SIN.          253 instance, at least-she was too inexperienced to look upon the material side of the question. Like most American girls she knew nothing about housekeeping; was totally ignorant of the fact that dinners in order to be eaten must be first procured and prepared. In common with them, she had never given a thought to the subject, eating the food that was placed upon the table, but never considering whence or how it got there. Her medita- tions were devoted entirely to the sentimental aspect-the sever- ing of happy ties, the renunciation of future intercourse with her cousins, which she had finally decided upon. In her view, her uncle had driven her from him. True, he had desired her to remain, but she could have staid under his -roof only at the price of consenting to his wishes, of pledging herself to become Alling- ton's wife. That she could, would never, never do. Were a far worse fate awaiting her than the life of isolation she had chosen, she would have still preferred that worse fate: anything sooner than compliance with Allington's price for his secrecy. Her cheeks flamed as she thought' of her uncle's crime. It was incomprehensible that he should have been guilty of anything which, in his own language, would couch him in the Tombs. She had never seen that gloomy and eccentric structure which serves as the city sieve through which criminals are strained to Blackwell's Island or Sing-Sing, but the mere name was suggestive enough to fill her with apprehension. However, she had settled the matter -so she thought-in the best manner; the only manner in which she could preserve at once her uncle and herself. Her thoughts were all retrospective; the future appeared so cloudy and uncer- tain that she shrank from striving to pierce it. It was suffidcient that she had money enough to give no heed to living for some weeks. So absorbed was she,in these meditations, that the opening of the door and the sound of a light footfall upon the floor failed to arouse her. Frank had arisen early and cleared away all traces of her extemporized bed, so that Lily should remain unaware how she had passed the night; and now, breakfast being nearly ready, had come to call her guest. She stood by the bedside, looking down, until the magnetic attraction always exerted by one person gazing steadily at another made Lily to turn and raise her head. She greeted the artist warmly, and would at once have pro- ceeded to relate what had been passing through her mind, but     254         LOSING TO WIN. Frank smilingly cut her short by postponing conversation until she were dressed and leaving her alone. Lily's hand-bag contained all that was needed for her simple toilette. By the time breakfast was ready she was in like condi- tion. Coming out into the studio she found the table set, and here met "Little Silva." During the progress of the meal, Lily stole many a glance at her new acquaintance, wondering much at the singularity of her name, and feeling interested to know more about the owner of that pale and faded, but still pretty face. In fact, everything was so odd, so entirely different from what her experience had taught her of life, that it was difficult to realize she was not dreaming. So connected with Mr. Wharton's family were her interests, so firmly rooted in his house were all her sympathies, that had she exchanged her residence there for one with a family living in a corresponding manner, it would have taken a long time for her to become accus- tomed to the transition. As it was, she had stepped from a quiet domestic circle into the thick of life; from the amphitheatre into the arena; from the spectators' seat into the midst of the gladia- tors, some of whom were echoing the ancient salutation. It puz- zled her; she could not understand it. Here were two women apparently enjoying the freedom claimed for their sex by rabid ranters, yet never a word had she heard about women's rights. And then their names-they were curious; the one a man's, and the other a title which gave no information as to whether its wearer were animate or inanimate. But the breakfast shared her atten- tion. Frank was a good cook, and her coffee was delicious, since, refraining friom boiling or committing any similar outrage upon it, the grateful berry yielded its full fragrance with the confidence inspired by considerate treatment. \Vhen breakfast was concluded and the things put away-dur- ing which process Frank insisted that Lily should sit quiescent upon the lounge and make no effort towards rendering assistance -the pedestal was brought forth, and clay prepared for the day's work, while Silva went to her room to accomplish her share of labor. Lily sat still, watching Frank's arrangements with the interest of one to whom they were an utter novelty, occasionally asking a question, though her mind was occupied with pondering upon the problem which had puzzled her during breakfast-who these   AN OLD SIN.          255 two women were and how they happened to have such singular names. Frank moulded for a while in silence, then laid down the tool and interrupted the revery into which Lily had unwittingly fallen, by exclaiming: "I can save a penny by telling your thoughts myself." "Indeed," said Lily, looking up with a smile not altogether free from a tinge of confusion. "Let me judge of your clairvoyant capacity," "That I can easily do," and Frank resumed her work. "You are thinking of me; wondering who I am; where I came from, and how Mr. Bayner knows me well enough to quarter a young woman upon me at a moment's notice." "Yes," said Lily frankly, with a ,light blush; " something like that was in my mind. I hope you will think it justifiable. Re- member, I have no desire to thrust myself upon you, and only your excessive kindness prevents me from feeling myself an intruder. However, to-day I must seek lodgings." "We'll see about that," said Frank, coolly relegating it to, futurity. "It is very natural that you should wish to know about me, but, my dear girl, I can hardly enlighten you more than can your own eyes. You see me as I am-what I am, a modeller, for I do not call myself an artist, of figures which I sell to a dealer for my living. My name you already know." "It is so like a man's," said Lily. "That's for convenience. It saves me a world of trouble to pass for one of our tyrants, as the strong-minded call them." "Then you are not a member of their ranks?" "I? A strong-minded woman? No, indeed.. I have seen them too intimately and know too well to what their doctrines lead, to ever adopt them." She laughed scornfully, and continued the work which she had neglected to give emphasis to her indig- nant denial. The ensuing silence was broken by Frank, who had less scru- ples about asking questions than had Lily. "You said that you had not been acquainted long with Fred- I mean Mr. Bayner?" "I never spoke to him before last night," answered Lily; add- ing hastily, as she thought she saw a look of surprise pass over Frank's features, "but I have seen him before-twice. Once     256         LOSING TO WIN. was at Stemwell, where I passed last summer with ray uncle, and once lately at Wallack's Theatre. I was there with my cousins, and from our box I saw him standing behind the scenes. I sup- pose that he remembered me, and so came up last night in the street." A"It is odd," said Frank, A" that from seeing you only twice he should have recollected you so well. I presume you recognized him?" "Oh, yes," said Lily, little dreaming how she was laying open her mind for the artist's amused, kindly inspection. "When he passed us at Stemwell, Mr. Allington "-she blushed and hesi- tated at pronouncing the name which her uncle had used to con- jure with to such baleftul effect--" said that he was a writer con- nected with the Globular newspaper. He looked at us so atten- tively that his face could hardly help dwelling in my memory." She uttered the last words rather apologetically, as if to account for her vixvid retention of the cir:mnstance. Frank smiled half wistfully at the unrolling panorama of which this sentence showed her the commencement. 1' And yet," Lily continued, musingly, " when he spoke to me, and offered to bring me to a place of safety, it did not seem in the least as though he were a stranger-he appeared more like a friend-and, indeed, it was a friendly act to bring me hither where you received me so heartily and welcomed me so warmly. I can never thank you enough." "Nonsense," said Frank stoutly, the odd chord in her voice making itself tremblingly perceptible. "What I have done for you, I did for-"She stopped short on the very verge of a revela- tion which might be indiscreet. Lily saw that the artist had been near committing herself, and to spare any embarrassment, and partly because she had not yet learned all which she wished to know, resumed the conversation, unheeding the temporary digression. "( I think it sometimes happens that we meet people whose faces seem perfectly familiar to us, and with whom we have no difficulty in becoming well acquainted, but who are in' reality total strangers. It is curious, the manner in which we quickly assimilate with those who are congenial, is it not?"Then, with- out waiting for an answer: "' How long have you known Mr. Bayner?"   AN OLD SIN.          257 "About a year or so," said Frank carelessly, seized with the sudden freak of making Lily avow her interest in so many words. "Is he clever? I should think he is." "Well, so-so. He does his work fairly, but he's not near so good a writer as Tommy Grains." "Who is he?" "Fred's bosom friend. The boys are always together." "Why won't you tell me about him?" said Lily a little impa- tiently, joining her hands on her lap and looking up into Frank's countenance. "About Tommy?" said Frank maliciously. "Certainly. I like him the better of the two. He is about twenty-six years old, rather stout, and bald as the back of your hand; somewhat undersized, with a red moustache, and-- " "I don't care anything about this Mr. Grains, as you call him," said Lily, more impatiently. '"Tell me about the other--please," and she glanced at Frank with much entreaty. "Oh, if your desire for information is really so overpowering, I will endeavor to satisfy-" "Now you are beginning to be absurd. Of course, I should like to know about one who was-so good to me." "And whom you have seen just three times," chimed in Frank, concluding the sentence for her. "Well, he came here one day with Tommy--Mr. Grains-when he was doing the art items, and gave me several very nice puffs. They were not a bit true, but suited the public just as well, and were of much service to me. Then, as I became better acquainted with him, I urged him to come here as frequently as possible. I always try to have those young news- paperfellows visit me often, for I know pretty well how thickly- beset they are with temptations of all kinds. The irregular life which they are obliged to lead, getting up any time during the day, and going to bed any time from midnight to six in the morning, is naturally conducive to dissipation. And then there is the constant mingling with all classes of society: transition from being at the house of a bank president or attending a reception at some club to describing an infamous den in Water Street is very common, of every-day occurrence in fact. Both Fred and Tommy have quite a decided inherent inclination towards wildness, but I think that they are pretty well weaned from it. I can always tell when they  258        LOSING TO WIN. have been doing anything they ought not to have done by their prolonged absence-they usually come two or three times a week --and a peculiarly sheepish hang-dog look they wear when they meet my Eye." She pronounced the word as King Arthur might have pronounced the name Excalibur. "( But lately, I am glad to say they have been behaving well. By-the-way," abruptly, {" how long is it since you saw Mr. Bayner in the country?" "About seven weeks," said Lily, after a reflective pause. "That's just the length of time I have noticed this change for the better in him. How strange!"She shook her head solemnly. Lily colored, she knew not why, and said hastily: "But you have not told me who he is; where he comes from, or anything about his family." "Family? Bless you, my child, we never bother ourselves about family-vrwe have enough to do with looking after number one. If a man is well mannered, well educated, a pleasant, agreeable companion, and furthermore a talented fellow, that is enough." "So Mr. Bayner is all that," said Lily laughing. ' You give him rather a different character than you did a few minutes ago." Frank was fairly caught. S"My enthusiasm slightly carried me away, but still he is deserving of some praise. Latterly also, be- sides living a better life, he has taken more pains with his work, and has immensely improved. Why, there was a Stemwell letter of his about a threatened strike which gave such an admirable picture of the labor question as it is in the country, that it was copied all over the United States. Now I think of it, he must have been getting his facts when you saw him." ( Very likely. My uncle is interested in a brick-yard where there is talk of a strike, but I know nothing further of it than mere rumors. Have you a copy of that letter, or of anything that he has written? I should like so much to read it." '"No; I never keep those things. It is only once in a while that I know what they have done, when they show me something they think worthy of attention. But for delicacy and beauty of thought, Little Silva is superior to both the boys." "Little Silva," repeated Lily, opening her eyes. "You mean her who breakfasted with us?" a "Whom else?. She is a fine writer, and has published some charmingly fanciful little poems. I'll show you those with pleasure." "Thank you. Why do you call her Little Silva?"   AN OLD SIN.     -     259 "Silva was the namne she signed to her articles, and as she had reasons for dropping her real one, she soon became known by that only. Then, every one who knew her added ' Little,' and so at , present not more than two or three people in the city are aware of what she was baptized. Hark! You can hear her pen scratching now, as she is wo'rking in her room. Though the door of communication was closed, Lily could distinctly hear the sound of a spluttering pen as it moved over the paper; but mingled with it was another noise which she could not explain. "What is that other sound?" she asked, after pondering upon it. "That? The rocking of her baby's cradle, I suppose," said Frank, just at this moment intently engaged with some intricate detail and turning her back upon the questioner. "Does her husband live here too?"Lily said, walking boldly, because unconsciously, on tottering ground. "No," said Frank, feeling that the question had best be settled now. "He treated her very shamefully, and they are separated. Do not ever mention or. even hint at it to her, for the circumstances were extremely painful. "Certainly not," said Lily, and with that fell to thinking. How strange it all was! to find herself associated with artists and literary people, mingling with them as though they were 'in no wise different from the followers of other professions. She had not expected that there would be a wide divergence of manner or appearance, but had entertained a faint idea that artists of any kind must show their character in some peculiarity of dress or conversation. But Frank and Silva were like any two women whom she might meet in society, with the exception that they were somewhat more unrestrained, and that there was a certain disregard on their part of some minor conventionalities. Frederick Bayner, too, differed from Cray Rolm-the only young gentleman of whom she had seen much-solely in being a more entertaining talker and in not dressing quite so elaborately. The talk was opposed to that which she had been accustomed to hearing. While " shop," as it is called, is shunned when in conversation with outsiders, there are no persons who deal in it so extensively with their associates as actors, painters and literary people. Painters rarely give much consideration to either politics or litera- i,                     -    ,   .     260         LOSING TO WIN. ture, and newspaper writers would probably do the same were they not obliged to have at least a bowing acquaintance with all topics of the day. Lily had not been entertained with much technical talk, but what she had heard was sufficient to seem as opening the view to a country of which she had never dreamed and at which she looked with strong curiosity. The train of conversation which had been stopped during Lily's musing reflection was soon again under way. She was discussing with Frank if there were not work for her idle hands to do, and thereby keep them from the venerable party whose favored prey they are popularly supposed to be in such condition, when they were interrupted by a knock at the door. "Come in," cried Frank, looking around. The knob turned, the door opened, and Allington and Mr. Wharton walked into the apartment. As Lily saw them, she arose to her feet, coloring violently: then the burning blush faded away and she stood outwardly calm and self-possessed, though trembling a little about the knees, to hear what the visitors might have to say. Frank's quick intelligence at once told her who were the new- comers as she glanced from Lily to them, but she merely bowed silertly. The pause consequent upon their entrance was rapidly becom- ing awkward, ludicrous even. Mr. Wharton broke it; looking at Lily as sternly as he could, and his recent mental troubles had well fitted his countenance for assuming such an expression. "Lily," he exclaimed, " what is the meaning of this extraordi- nary conduct-of your leaving my house and endeavoring to hide yourself in such a place as this?" "The meaning of it," she answered in a low voice which gathered strength as she proceeded, " is in what you said to me yesterday afternoon." "But that was no cause why you should run away." "The cause stands beside you," she said, looking at Allington with cold, unflinching eyes. He had remained just inside the door, but at this he raised his head suddenly with an eager, inquisitive gaze. She flushed and looked downward. "Mr. Wharton, and you, madam," he said, bowing slightly to Frank; "will you allow me to speak a few minutes alone with   AN OLD SIN.          26I Miss Vevere? I trust that I may be able to disabuse her mind of an impression which she unfortunately seems to have gathered concerning me." Drawing Mr. Wharton aside, he hurriedly persuaded that gentleman to return homeward, saying that he would bring Lily thither during the day. Conscious of being in the wrong and equally anxious to avoid receiving or giving any pain, Mr. Wharton readily consented to leave the whole affair in Allington's hands. Frank retired into Silva's room, giving Lily an encouraging pressure of the hand as she passed. The girl remained motionless, striving to brace herself for the conflict which she knew must soon come, and struggling against the feminine weakness which brought tears to her eyes and prompted her to retain Frank by her side. But the underlying force of her character arose to the surface now that she was compelled to assert herself against such odds. She was perfectly sure as to the result; knowing that right was on her side she had small doubt of the end, could she 'only conquer her nervousness. "Miss Vevere," said Allington, when they were alone, making a step forward and speaking slowly, "I am very much afraid that Mr. Wharton must have sadly misrepresented me during the pro- gress of that conversation to which you just now alluded. Will you not hear me in my own justification?" She bowed her head silently. "Let me place before you the facts as he should have stated them-'as I am afraid he did not state them. Let me plead with you my own cause. I will not speak of the grief occasioned your cousins by your abrupt disappearance; of the sorrow felt by your uncle at youi violent severance of all family ties- " "I have thought of that," she interrupted firmly, speaking through-thin, closely drawn lips. "And for that reason I  did not intend to dilate upon those circumstances," he added, adroitly recovering from his moment- ary embarrassment. "What I wish to say concerns myself more intimately. As you know, I happened, luckily or unluckily as it may be, to become acquainted with some transactions of your uncle's, which for his credit's sake must remain concealed." The curl of an upper lip told him in what manner the subject had been presented to her. "I read your thoughts," he cried eagerly; " but you are mis,  262         LOSING TO WIN. taken-on my honor, you are mistaken." He hesitated, cleared his throat and proceeded more slowly as though trying to subdue strong emotion. "Miss Vevere, you cannot but be aware that I love you." He stopped short. She started as at the sound of a pistol. "Yes, I love you earnestly, intently. Not with the impulsive desire of youth, but with the intensity which only a man can feel and having once experienced forever keeps. When I saw you for the first time I was attracted by your sweet, fair face. As our ac- quaintance ripened, as I learned more of your pure, fresh mind- worthy gem of such a casket!-my admiration united with my re- spect for your thoughts to blend into the love which I now offer. Surely, I am not presumptuous in thus speaking to you; I cannot have vainly flattered myself that you sometimes seemed to take pleasure in my companionship. That pleasure, Miss Vevere, small as it may have been, yet bid me hope; rarely visible as it was, I yet derivel from it sufficient courage to address as I do, with trust of a favorable response. Miss Vevere-Lily- " Again he stepped forward. She raised her hand to arrest him. Confused, as he had intended she should be by this diversion from the main topic, bewildered and half doubting if she had not really given him more encouragement than was right, Lily knew not what to say. It was very difficult. Looked at in such a light, it was almost as if she had led him on to the present point. Tossed like a feather between the breaths of conflicting emotions, she was in a dangerous position. If she had encouraged him, could she now draw back honorably? If she had led him on, was she not bound to accept him? Her brain turned, she grasped at the lounge for support. Had Allington then pressed his suit impetu- ously he might have extorted a reluctant consent or, at least, a negative assent, but he mistook her feeling. He had not suffi- ciently calculated upon-indeed, could not understand-the woe- ful force with which his words came to an upright, honest-hearted girl. II- " she stammered, her color coming and going in fitful flashes. "' Vait," he said gently. "I do not ask for an answer now. Let that be given at. some future time. As for your uncle's secret, bet assured that it shall forever remain a secret so fair as I am con- cerned. I but spoke of it to him to obtain his permission to   AN OLD SIN.          203 address you, which he would otherwise have refused for personal reasons, and, most certainly, his mentioning my knowledge of it to you, was the last thing which I should have imagined." "Is that true?" she asked tremulously. "Upon my soul, yes," answered Allington gravely, perjuring himself for the first time in his life with a quiet, sickish qualm, though his exterior showed no sign. Lily was sincerely glad to hear this. She was glad to believe that Allington was not so bad a man as she had thought him, glad that he had not intended to make her the subject of a bargain. Allington saw the impression his lie produced upon her, and thanked his stars for the lucky hit. "Will you not, now, return to Mr. Wharton's?" Lily recoiled. Go back I Go back to the house from which she had fled, go back to meet her uncle's renewed entreaties-for she could not doubt but that they would be renewed-to meet her cousins' questions, their importunities as to the cause of her absence; to forego all that she had gained, and, as it were, prove that she might be urged to compliance. She made no answer. "I promise you," said Allington persuasively, " that Mr. Whar- ton shall never again refer to this subject-that you shall be in every way free-your own mistress. Then, at some distant day, I may once more urge my love-" "And what has become of the love you swore to me, Paul Allington?" asked a husky low voice from one side of the room. They both started. There stood Little Silva in her doorway, white and wan as a spectral moon, gazing at Allington mournfully. Behind her was Frank with troubled, anxious face. "Silva! You here!" he said, tottering as though dealt a blow, yet even in this emergency retaining, enough self-possession to say: "Miss Vevere, I beg, I implore you to leave us." "Stay," said Silva. "I have heard your words, I have heard you profess to this girl, young enough to be duped, innocent enough to believe you, lying words of what you dare to call love. God! Do I not know their sound! Have I not heard from your lips the same poisonous flowers of rhetoric! You should be a proficient by this time, if assiduous practice make proficiency." She laughed sc6rn- fully, harshly. "See here," she suddenly exclaimed, turning and snatching up her child. "Look at this. Do you recognize the eyes? Has it not the same finely shaped head, the same well-     264         LOSING TO WIN. formed features? Examine it carefully; you have the right. It half belongs to you-you are its father." Lily sank upon the lounge, sick and faint at this terrible reve- lation; alarmed at the frenzied glitter in the excited woman's eyes. Her words resolved the fact for which Frank's explanation had not accounted-why there was no ring upon the fourth finger of Silva's left hand. "Silva, Silva, for God's sake control yourself," entreated Frank. "Oh, I am in no need of control," she returned with the same scornful short laugh, her voice becoming rugged, tattered by pas- sion. "Paul-my own, dear Paul"-Allington shivered, impa- tiently bit his lips and looked steadfastly at the floor--" he remem- bers me well. He remembers when I was a girl, innocent as she who sits there; he remembers how he taught me the emancipa- tion of women; how he lied to me of love as I have just heard him lying again. And he remembers deserting me in my hour of trial, leaving me to endure and suffer as best I might. But he cannot remember as I remember the long, long hours I passed upon a bed of sickness before I could believe that he meant never to see me again; he cannot remember how I have struggled to keep body and soul together; how I have lived a death in life. No; nothing of that can he recall; nothing-save perchance an occasional recol- lection of the flower he picked, whose fragrance he enjoyed and then flung away to wither and die, while he-he is prating of love to others." She paused for breath. Lily covered her eyes with her hand, but raised her head at Silva's next speech. "For you, Miss Vevere," her manner changing, her tones softening, " do not think me crazy. I am only aroused at the sight of this man whom I have not seen since he left me, as he thought, forever. But believe him not; believe nothing that he tells you. Place no reliance upon him, trust him with nothing- far less yourself. All he says is false-false as himself-false as hell. I thought that I had forgiven you, Paul Allington," she continued, addressing him. "I have tried hard to do so. I have prayed for strength, and thought that my prayer had been answered. But I could not listen to you, speaking to this young girl, without letting her know your true character. I have so far forgiven you,    AN OLD SIN.          265 though, that this ends here. Let me never look upon your face again--never hear your voice again. Now, go." What could he say? He could devise no refutation of the sin tims brought up against him. It was impossible to deny it, im- possible to evade the consequences coming upon him. He saw himself degraded, dishonored in Lily's eyes; saw in her averted head that never again could he stand before her as he had for- merly appeared.; read in her countenance, as in letters of doom, his sentence of banishment from her pure mind. Abjectly, he took his hat and left the apartment, his head hanging and his eyes downcast. Another Sinbad, the old sin had suddenly leapt upon his shoulders and was crushing him to earth with heavy weight. As the door closed after him, Silva leaned against the lintel, weak and' exhausted. Putting one hand to her breast, she coughed violently, then staggered to the lounge. Frank noticed a large gout of blood upon her pocket-handkerchief. In vain did Silva attempt to hide it. The gouts came quicker and thicker, until Frank ran for a doctor to tell him that her friend had broken a blood-vessel. 12.     CHAPTER XXX. Two YOUNG LADIES, "NGTON went out from Frank's studio and returned to A  -Mr. \Nharton's house exceedingly discomfited. Not only was he obliged to confess himself unable to fulfil his pledge of bringing Lily back with him, but he felt all the bitterness of a lefeat. And to be defeated by such means; by the resurrection of a sin which he had long thought himself to be forever done with. In severing his connection with Silva he had given small thought to the unhappy girl. She had chosen to cast he; lot with a certain set, and he had but carried out the principles by which they professed to be guided. When he left her, he left also a sum of money for her benefit in the hands of the hospital authori- ties, to be given her upon her discharge. It was not his fault if she had refused to accept it and had since then given no sign of herexistence. He had dismissed the affair from hismind. What lhe had done was wrong undoubtedly; but it was over now, and the sooner forgotten the better. Fool that he was, not to have known that nothing can be forgotten; that every action shapes our lives, that every word influences them. But what should he (do about Lily? He could not resign his ,retensions to her-he would not. His liking for her had grown into a passion which was now beyond his control, even had he wished to restrain it. The shrub had become a tree, high reach- ing, whose roots were intwined so closely about his nature that they could not be disentangled. Walking slowly through the street, his features giving no trace of the workings within, the sense of mortification with which his first footsteps had been accompanied gave way to other emotions. A man always feels humiliated wheh deterred from any purpose, though it be but by the calm constraint of circumstances. Much more humiliated does he feel when other hands haul down his metaphorical flag-   $    - TWO YOUNG LADIES.             267, yet more when those hands belong to a woman. He gnawed his lip, recalling his degradation in Lily's presence ; but; nevertheless, swore by all his gods that she should yet belong to him. To some horses the curb is an incentive-an obstacle to be overcome. So it was with Allington. The check made him the more deter- mined to succeed. By skilful use of his power over Mr. Wharton, Lily might be brought to terms, and then-- He would recommend her uncle to leave her unmolested; let her taste undisturbed the freedom she seemed to find so pleasant. And pleasant it might be while the-novelty lasted. So soon as that was gone she would see the difference between the styles of the life she led and the life she had left. Even the material sur- roundings would affect her greatly. Besides, time would tell in his favor. With the lapse of each day the idea of marrying him would become more familiar; a few weeks would probably bring her to endure -and finally to'embrace. He judged correctly in thinking that to a girl like Lily the whole of marriage would be contained within the ceremony, that she would reason of nothing further, present to herself no picture of its sequence. But he omitted altogether to take into account the effect produced upon her by the revelation of the tie between himself and Silva. For over a year the subject had been absent from his mind; it was so long past that he could not imagine it appearing to any one else with the vividness of the present. Dismissed from his thoughts, it did not occur to him that the matter would seem too another as of importance. It was too old a story to present any interesting phases. Mr. Wharton was awaiting him anxiously. His face fell as he saw Allington enter alone. Perplexed and worried by Lily's departure, he had for the moment forgotten his speculations, for- gotten Allington's knowledge of his guilty secret, forgotten even the strange proposal of marriage, in his eagerness to have Lily once more beneath his roof. Loving her as he did, he was pitiably tossed between his desire to save himself and his wish not to force her into anything distasteful. "Where is Lily? You said you would bring her with you," he asked, leading the way into the library. "So I did," returned Allington, dropping into a chair and tak- ing a cigar which he leisurely lit, though with a rather shaky hand. "So I did, but as you see, my arguments proved of no avail."   268         LOSING TO WIN. His hands clasped behind his back, his head bent forward, Mr. Wharton took a few turns up and down the room before again speaking. "What's to be done?" he said, facing the younger man. "Done?" repeated Allington, raising his eyes from the car- pet whose pattern they had been attentively studying, some of the red reflection apparently flashing into them. "Leave her alone. A short while will suffice to cure her of this folly. A short time will bring her to her senses and your home." Mr. Wharton shook his head. She is very determined when she has once made up her mind." "And does she imagine that she is the only one in the world who has a mind to make up? She may learn that minds are made up like clothes-some with furbelows and useless trimmings; others simple and plain-for service." He laughed shortly at the conceit. The eyebrows of iMr. Wharton's face contracted as he glanced at the speaker; he did not comprehend this mood. "Am I to understand that your determination is still the same? "I will answer your question by another. Am I a child or a fool to speak as I have spoken and relinquish my purpose because a girl not out of her teens objects?" "But when this girl, 'not out of her teens,' is the one you propose marrying- "He paused, hardly knowing in what inoffen- sive manner to finish his sentence. "All the more needful she should learn to yield to my will. Look here, Mr. Wharton," he continued, in an impressive, firmer tone, sitting more upright and resting his elbow upon the table as he leaned slightly forward. "What I told you yesterday, I still adhere to. I told you that I knew the details of your crime-you seem to require that the word should again be used. I told you that I could at any moment hand you over to the police. I told you, furthermore, that I loved your niece, that I wanted her. I still want her. I repeat that I can and will give you in charge if you do not forward my views. I hope I make myself compre- hended?" He purposely made his manner and his words rough to almost brutality.   TWO YOUNG LADIES.         269 "You do," said Mr. Wharton with a weary, smothered groan. "There is no need to threaten me. What can I do but comply with your wishes? I have no alternative." "And be assured of one thing," said Allington in a softer tone. "I will be to your niece as good a husband as she could anywhere find.. I only want your assistance to make sure of se- curing her." Mr. Wharton's face lightened at hearing that Allington would be true and kind to Lily. The trouble about her had so oppressed him, to the exclusion of further considering the forgery, that with its disposition his black case seemed whitewashed. "Then you think I had better-" "Leave her alone for a month or so. Then, renew your offer to receive her, and my word for it she will accept. Tell her, as an additional inducement, that you will urge nothing in regard to me, and that, though the conditions of my silence are still the same, she shall be free to choose between disgracing you "--Mr. Whar- ton winced--, and marrying me, subject to no exoteric influence. Tell her, whichever way she decides, her decision shall be respect- ed, that it shall meet with no remonstrance, be greeted with no expostulation. Tell her that, free and untrammelled, she and she alone shall turn the balance and fix the scales in the position they shall keep." "You say nothing about yourself." "For the present-no. When my time comes, I shall be on hand. When the fruit is ripe, it will be plucked. I cannot pretend to advise you about your daughters," he added, rising and flinging away the half-smoked cigar, "but in your place I should enjoin silence upon them, and let the servants understand that Miss Vevere has gone on a visit to some friends." "Certainly, certainly," said Mr. Wharton hurriedly, recalled to a quickening sense of the detailed explanations with which he would be obliged to account for Lily's flight. With this they parted; Mr. Wharton sitting down to map out minutely the course he must follow concerning his niece, to think over what he should say to his daughters--and the servants. It would never do to let those domestic inquisitors surmise the truth. Undoubtedly they would discuss her abrupt departure in many a solemn conclave yet to be held; at the most he could but hope to mystify them. Few people realize how their affairs are canvassed by     270         LOSING TO WIN. the congress that sits in the kitchen, and how every family matter is commented upon in all its bearings. Lily's disappearance was of course known to the lower regions; equally of course had it been commented upon, wondered at, and startling reasons assigned for its happening. The neighboring servants had very likely been cir- cumstantially informed that she had been driven out by her uncle at midnight with blows and curses, or had eloped with the music teacher. Mr. Wharton could do no more than announce that Lily had left the house with his consent and would probably not return for several weeks. Even to his daughters he need not be more explicit. He rang the bell and requested that they might be called. Harriet rushed in impetuously, followed by Eliza at a slower pace. "Oh, papa, have you found out about Lily?" "Yes," he said gravely. "I have seen her." "Where is she?" asked Harriet. "I'll go and see her, too." "You had better wait," said Eliza, " until you know what she has done."' "t For shame, Eliza!" exclaimed Harriet, the indignant color flushing her face. "As though Lily could act badly." "We are all bad at heart," said Eliza complacently, looking down at the large golden cross which hung upon her breast. "Father Joles says- " "Rubbish!" was the energetic interruption of the younger sister. A"Father Joles is a great stupid booby. You're in one of your pious moods now and think that we are all desperate sinners. So we are-all except Lily. Come, papa dear," and she kissed him, " tell us about her. What did she say?" "Wait a moment, my dear," said Mr. Wharton, releasing him- self from her impetuous arms.  "Before I tell you anything you must both promise not to ask any questions which I do not wish to answer." "Yes-we promise," cried the two girls in one breath. "Lily is well, and gone on a visit to some friends in Philadel- phia whom I know. She may remain away from us several weeks, and in the mean time you must not worry or fret about her." "- t," and Harriet drew a long face, A" that is not giving us any news. Why did she go so mysteriously?" "You must ask her that when she returns." "Where is she now?"           rATWO YOUNG LADIES.         271 "In the cars." "But where do her friends live--what street, what number?" "That is one of the questions you must not ask. Comne, I have told you all that I feel at liberty to, It is puzzling, naturally, but you must be content to remain in ignorance.; I cannot en- lighten you." Pump as resolutely as she :could, Harriet-could learn nothing further, and at length relinquished her attempts -in disgust. Ac- companied by her sister, she went into the parlor to discuss the inexplicable affair. "I cannot understand it at all," she said, throwing herself ,down upon a sofa. "Papa is as close as a new steel trap, and not half so bright. I think -it's awful shabby not to tell .us any- ,thing more." "Perhaps he don't like to tell us,"' said Eliza, modestly low- ering her eyes. "Eliza, you're real mean," cried Harriet, starting up. "This is the second or third time you've made some wretched little innuendo about Lily, when you know that she is just as good a girl as ever lived. She's a great deal better than you with all your candles and genuflections and things." Like all her sex, Harriet's arguments invariably diverged into the tu quoque as speedily as possible. Eliza colored. "You're a wicked girl to talk as you do about church matters." "d I'm not. I declare, I believe you are jealous of-Lily because she is prettier than you. You never lost an opportunity to say something malicious about her when she was here, and now she is gone, you are worse than ever." You are a horrid story-teller," remonstrated Eliza, for she always got the worst of it in the frequent combats with her sister. "Lily never went to church except on Sunday, and you are just as bad." "I'm not," repeated Harriet, defiantly. "Cray Rolm says I'm the best girl he ever saw." ' Cray Rolm," said Eliza in a tone of the utmost scorn she could accomplish, quite cheerful at the chance of retaliation. "Poor little boy! He dares not call his soul his own when you are around."   272         LOSING TO WIN. "That's a great deal better than having men that do nothing but talk about your soul." "Poor Cray," continued Eliza, exulting in her chance, and making for the door so that Harriet should not be able to reply. "I'll have some sugar candy for him the next time he comes." "Anyhow," cried Harriet, flinging a parting shot after her retreating sister, "Cray Rolm means business, and that's more than any of your visitors do." That this told was shown by the banging of Eliza's bed-room door. Curious-the conversation of two young ladies. Still, no one can endure perpetual hot water; even lobsters occasionally tire of it. Though these two girls nearly always quarrelled, flying into conflict when brought together quite as readily as an acid and an alkali into effervescence; yet they sin- cerely loved each other, and never dreamed of their idle words- however hard-hitting they might be for the moment-causing any permanent pain. Some spirit of instinctive opposition dwelt within them. We never stop to reason why a dog barks and bounds when puss appears in sight; why puss bristles her back and swells her tail. As Doctor Watts sagely remarked some time ago, making use of a grammatical form which is now styled an abominable Americanism, "It is their nature to." Some members of a family can never meet without collision. Harriet and Eliza were two Prince Rupert drops continually pinching each other; there was a little bang, a puff of smoke, a hardly perceptible jar of the atmosphere, and then quiet for a while. Eliza's hints at some misconduct on the part of Lily were not dictated so much by any evil feeling, as by a certain kind of Ham- holier-than-thou idea which her peculiar religious practices had a tendency to foster. Any sect within a sect tends principally to make its members cultivate an exclusiveness of goodness which is often exceedingly irritating to the carnal mind. They look down as it were from some devotional Mount Athos upon the grovel- lers below, regarding them with a mild contempt, qualified by an exalted idea of their own beatification. Sometimes they do not take the trouble to conceal this contempt, but let it be plainly seen that they consider themselves the elect, far superior to the ignoble multitude. Eliza had rushed into the extremity of exter- nal religion with the temerity of those who are said to go where   TWO YOUNG LADIES.         273 angels dare not, and could prattle glibly words of mediaeval sound that have an ancient, musty flavor. She was accustomed to fast-- eat fish instead of meat-burn candles at night while she was fast asleep, and indulge in other eccentricities common to the young of both sexes who have nothing better with which to occupy themselves. When Harriet'slyly blew the candles out, she thought a miracle had happened. Like those whom she accompanied in these fantasies she was no less fond of society and dancing, new bonnets and fashion than her unregenerate sister who was content to think good of all, speak evil of few, and do her duty according to her lights and the promptings of a kind heart. Harriet stretched herself out luxuriously upon the sofa, and fell to meditating upon Lily until her brain ached. When this con- summation had been achieved, she reverted to her sister's words and laughed softly, thinking to what a state of abject submission she had brought her luckless lover. She had spoken truly in say- ing to Eliza that " he meant business," though she had hitherto given him no opportunity to make his avowal. Commencing to feel the loss of Lily's pleasant, cheering company, she thought that she might give him that opportunity sooner than she had contemplated. I'll have some fun with Father Joles first, though," she said to herself. "If I can take him away from Eliza it will be splen- did." The rattle -of the cars furnished an odd obligato accompani- : ment to Allington's musings as the train rolled swiftly towards Stemwell. He was not sorry that he had this place to which he could retreat and there digest at his leisure the mortification which might otherwise have rendered him mentally dyspeptic. Staying in the city, he would have been unable to refrain from visiting Lily, or, in any event, endeavoring to see her. That by so doing he would destroy what small chance of success with her might yet remain, no reflection was needed to assure him. His wisest course, the only course which promised compensation was to remain away from her until she should have returned to her uncle's. That done, he was greatly mistaken if she did not come to look upon all which had occurred in the studio as a faintly defined dream. But were she to see him again in the I2'   274   "OSING TO WIN.   same place, she could not but recall Silva's form and Silva's words. This enforced waiting until Lily should tire of the vagabond phase of life, would give him time to finish his play. He was now engaged upon the fifth act, and was as yet undecided in what man- ner he should bring about the catastrophe, what lurid scene should fitly cap his structure of passionate love and futile crime. He had become strangely interested in this play; more of himself was in it than in anything which he had ever written before; more of the deep, unexpressed thoughts which many of us carry forever unspoken. In men of wide brain there are all possibilities-all potentialities. When the untamed thoughts always lurking within such are called into life by the touch of events, their busy fingers quickly mould the mind, fashioning it into barbarian shapes. Passions spring into fierce activity, and, like weeds, kill all good by absorbing the nourishment. Only sweet, rich clover has strength enough to strangle weeds, but in many men the good has never such virile vitality-it succumbs easily. As in the sow- ing of the mythic Jason teeth, armed men arise with the din of clashing swords and the clang of conflicting shields, but they destroy not each other; more frequently are unaware of the dragon brood. But in the ancient fable the frantic children did not straightway appear. The sowing done, a deep hush fell upon the earth and the mighty mother lay quiescent, brooding. Then, dim, weird sounds were heard, a faint, muffled rattle, a smothered hum and stir presaging strange events. A mystical light streamed from the vaporous sun; ill-boding murmurs rustled through the trees; a distant roar of sullen waves flinging themselves on rugged rocks. Then the broad bosom heaved, wavered and trembled; quavered with a spasmodic throe and shivered into rigid furrows, and then the glinting tops of brazen helmets cov- ering angry eyes came slowly up. Allington sometimes-when he thought of it-frowned at the impish thoughts which were beginning to leap and' dance within his brain. Lily's image had taken complete possession of him. To shake this domination he had worked at his play with the en- ergy of a vigorous, highly trained intellect. Soon, much to his surprise, he found himself developing a tendency towards morbid- ity. He was the more surprised at this that his life had been, so    T 'WO YOUNG LADIES.         275 far as he .could make it, one of pleasure alternating with light fluent work. He was unable to understand how it could happen, even though he was deprived of his usual amusements and corm- panionships to associate only with a melancholy old man, that his mind should take such a turn. He forgot that he had been training himself by years of aesthetic sensuality to arrive at just such a pass. Hadhis intellect been less active, less keen, he would have become either morose or phlegmatic. As it was, his quick brain, growing brighter in the thin mountain air, turned upon itself; the sword was doing its work, but the victim had not yet sneezed. But as these feelings helped his melodrama he did not strive to repress them as he might have done. The lurking thoughts could have been choked before their life was attained, but he let. them come to maturity and the play gained. He would finish that and win Lily at about the same time. How to do either he knew not at present: that both should be done he was re- solved. He looked around upon the people in the same car with him, reflecting that the train was a long one and each car equally well filled. It is wonderful to meet so many persons wherever one goes and consider that every single individual loves and hopes and de- sires ardently, and often furiously; that each man's identity is as dear and precious to him as that of any nation-savior; that the old, old thoughts of which we are so weary have at one time come to him as fresh and novel as they seemed to us; that boyish aspi- rations have shone as brightly, that soft eyes have smiled as kindly, and slow lips framed the same sweet words. That each stranger lives in his own little world which we shall never penetrate; that we shall never know who are his friends, what books he reads, what he thinks. That he goes his way as we go ours, never again to meet, probably never again to see each other though our years should be as elastic as india rubber. That each man has a wife, children perhaps, who are now waiting him at home-whom we shall never see and yet which give him a vague sort of interest. We are so egotistical as to imagine that no one ever enjoyed or suffered as we do-precisely the opinion of each stranger; that there is something in us which, if it- could once get adequate utter- ance, would rank us amongst earth's greatest-exactly each stran-     276         LOSING TO WIN. ger's estimate of himself. Little better philosophy is there than that to be derived from a crowd. ' Stemwell!" is finally shouted by a hoarse breakman with vociferous unintelligibility. Allington recalls his wandering wits, gets out of the cars and into his dog-cart and so home through the crisp air to Mr. Denton and his thoughts of Lily. i,   '1A CHAPTER XXXI. A LAMP  GOES OUT. "TTLE SILVA was ill-dangerously ill; ill unto death. Under no circumstances can the rupture of a blood-vessel in the lungs be anything but serious, and to one in her condition it was particularly so. Worn down, reduced to a low 'state of vitality, her constitution was of a kind which would have enabled her to struggle on for months longer, had no severe strain been made upon it, but which could not bear up against adverse influ- ences, could not recover from any hurt. While her physical power was sufficient, her vital power was totally exhausted. Carried away by passion at the sight of Allington, excited to almost lunacy at hearing him address to another the words of love to which she had lent but a too willing ear, her emotion had obtained the mastery and driven her beyond herself. As she dismissed him in a single curt phrase. she felt a warm, sweetish taste in her mouth. It increased with sudden violence until, unable to longer restrain it, she sank upon the lounge, thinking in desperation that her time had come, and half wishing that she might die then and there and so have done with the weary world. The doctor, whom Frank had hastily brought from Tenth Street, shook his head as he looked at the blood in the basin and noticed its bright red color. He had not been there long/before the effusion ceased, and then his directions were followed though he hinted to Frank that she might expect the worst. Silva was put to bed, ordered to remain perfectly quiet, move as little as possible, speak not at all and keep her mouth filled with crushed ice. Lily stayed with her while Frank followed the doctor into the studio-now so strangely still after the late vehement storm of words-and asked him for the truth about her friend. "Well-ah-madam," he replied, with the true medical hesi- tation to give a decided opinion. "s She may recover from the-     278         LOSING TO WIN. ah-bleeding; mind, I say only, may recover-but-ah--I should hardly like to-ah-assert that she will-ah-recover from the- ah-shock." He pronounced the last word with as much solem- nity and impressiveness as if he were an haruspex speaking of domestic fowls. Frank returned to the bedside, feeling only too well assured that Silva's fate was decided. Beckoning Lily to follow she went into her bed-room, and there said: -( Now, my dear girl, this is no place for you. Had you not better return to your uncle's?" "No," said Lily energetically, so much of self-confidence had she already gained. "d Can you think for an instant that I would leave you at the very moment I can perhaps be of some service? That I am mean enough to requite your kindness when I may be of use? No. You gave me shelter when I needed it; let me now repay that as best I may. Besides- "She hesitated. , Well?" said Frank, looking at her with a grave and kind eye. "( I am in some measure responsible for Mr. Allington's pres- ence here. But for me she would not have seen him, but for me she would not have heard him nor have been roused to the excite- ment which has, ended so disastrously." "Child, child," said Frank sadly, {" think you that any little human deeds can alter our lives? What is to be, will be; neither our protest nor our acquiescence can change the course marked out for us to tread. Never consider how effects were caused, but how they are to be treated. You are no more respon- sible for the appearance of Mr. Allington than am I. So, dismiss that from your Inind. From what the doctor said, I gather that she cannot live. It would, I acknowledge, be a great comfort to me to have you here until all is over, but you must judge for yourself whether it is consistent with your ideas of duty and right to be here." "i So judging," said Lily firmly, " my duty and my inclination go together. I would not return to my uncle's without far stronger assurances that I should be relieved from further mo- lestation than those which I have received from Mr. Allington. After his recent avowal, after this shocking disclosure, which even now I scarcely understand, I could go there only upon the most positive assertions of my uncle himself. I will not, I cannot,"   !             A LAMP GOES OUT.         279 she exclaimed with a flash of defiant energy, "expose myself to the indignity of being again addressed by that bad man. Here I am safe, here he will not venture, whatever be the power he has acquired over my unhappy uncle; and here with your permission 1 will stay-the only asylum where I am secure." "Stay, then, if so you deem best," said Frank, taking her hand and pressing it; - -act according to your convictions :and rely upon me for whatever aid I can give." Leaving Lily in the studio she went back to the dying girl. As Lily had said, she did not even now quite understand the relation between Silva and Allington; that there had been shame and sin and desertion was but too plain. She shrank from dwell- ing upon that side of it with the sensitive delicacy of a pure mind, unwilling to think upon it and glad to dismiss it when it did not -obtrude itself upon her attention. She would not think of it- the subject was too painful. Naturally, in this sudden taking off of one with whom she had merely come into contact, she could not feel any great degree of sorrow for such a stranger as was Silva to her. Her thoughts strayed to Frederick Bayner. How fortunate it was that he should have met her as he did, and brought her to the shelter so freely, so generously offered by the artist. And what a good, kind woman the latter was! Lily was not one of those whose friendships spring up in a night, like a Jonah's gourd, to wither as soon; but she experienced for Frank a warm regard which increased at each moment's thought. And then what a pleasant, agreeable man was Mr. Bayner. He was fairly good-looking, too. She had been glad to hear that he was not dissipated, but had lately been industrious and improving. He certainly had in him the elements of a highly successful man, were they properly put forth. She would 'like extremely to read some of his articles and see if they justified the opinion she had formed of him from his conversation. Particularly, would she like to read that letter from Stemwell which had been so widely copied. Unacknowledged to herself, not even formulated in her thoughts; was a vague idea that her personality might have somewhat influenced him-perhaps-while writing it. "I wonder why he looked at me so earnestly," she murmured. She knew very well that she was beautiful-her mirror told her the truth every time she regarded it, and she was not blind; but so accus- tomed had she become to her reflection that she never thought of  280         LOSING TO WIN. herself as different from other people. It is only ingrained coquettes or battered virgins who can assiduously study their glass in order to sum up definitely every trait with which nature has endowed them. As Lily belonged to neither one nor the other of these two classes, being only a simple, unselfish girl, she rarely thought of her looks, and then but to hope that her dress became them. She pondered over the earnestness with which Bayner had regarded her, but could come to no explanation; and so the day glided past. Meridian retreated before afternoon, which in its turn was vanquished by the arrowy spears of shadow shot by the van- guard of night, fading gradually into the dim haziness of twilight. Hardly a sound from the street reached Frank's rooms, the sole suggestion of the turgid life outside consisting of a dull, faint humming roar which penetrated to what was facetiously called the sky parlor. In Silva's room sat Frank, watching her with a patient attention which never flagged, moving her in bed when she judged that the position was becoming fatiguing and keeping her constantly supplied with ice. Silva lay perfectly passive. She did not attempt to disobey the doctor's injunctions, but early in the afternoon by the restless inquiring glances she cast around it was evident that she was seeking something. Frank divined her wish and taking the baby from its cradle laid it beside her. A thin arm stole around the slumbering infant, the wide eyes moist- ened and filled with grateful tears; then, the blue-veined lids drooped over them and Silva dozed or appeared to doze. The child had been recently weaned, and Frank took it from its mother only to feed and replace it, when it instantly dropped asleep again. It was but a poor, weazened little thing, for Silva had insisted upon nursing it herself and had no spare strength to bestow. She thought the child was a model of propriety, since it never screamed and accepted all its little life as was now doing she from whom that life came. Frank read rather in this inac- tivity the sign of weakness, of decay, but said nothing of her suspicions. Late in the afternoon came a knock at the door. Frank, being in the other room, heard it not and it was unanswered. The vis- itor turned theknob and walked forward into the darkness of the studio. The red glare of a cigar between his lips showed the face of Frederick Bayner. He looked about but noticed nothing.   A LAMP GOES OUT.          281 Glancing through the crack of the door between the rooms, he saw Frank sitting by the side of the bed on which was Little Silva, Looking more carefully around the studio he perceived a dark form huddled upon the lounge. A few steps brought him to it, and he gazed down upon the countenance of Lily, slumbering in placid sleep, breathing freely and softly as a happy child. "I'might win a pair of gloves," he thought, dismissing the thought so soon as formed. "She looks too like a saint, to be sul- lied by any touch of mine-even were it in jest. Another Made- leine, she sleeps ' an azure lidded sleep,' and Ha poor Porphyro- stand looking upon the vision. I dare not ask ' if I may be for aye thy vassal blest, thy beauty's shield, heart shaped and vermeil dyed.' " Something in the propinquity, something in his thus gazing upon her, startled' Lily from her sleep. She awoke and sat upright, leaping to the floor and speaking as she saw the faintly outlined image. A"No, no. I will not return until sure that you will never speak to me again--" "Miss Vevere," he exclaimed, stepping back. "Oh, forgive me, Mr. Bayner. I did not recognize you. I could see nothing but the figure of a man, and that seemed the continuation of a bad dream. Excuse my hasty exclamation." "I could hardly flatter myself that you were able to distinguish me through the darkness, so I will not take your words as applio- cable to me," he observed lightly. "But what is the reason you have no light? Where is Frank?" "Hush," said Lily. "Do not speak so loud. We have had a sad day of it." "What has happened--nothing to you?" he asked eagerly. "No; nothing of importance to me." "You emphasize the pronoun in such manner as to imply that an accident has happened to one of the party." 'An accident has happened." She briefly related the incidents of the day; suppressing, how- ever, Allington's avowal of love, and merely stating that he had come to join his arguments to those of her uncle. Silva's excla- mations were also sparingly narrated; although remembering them literally, Lily cared not to repeat the details. As she con- cluded, Frank came from the sick-room.  282        LOSING TO WIN. Who is this here? It is so dark I cannot see." Bayner made known his presence, adding in a low tone: "I came to dine with you, Frank." "d Dine with me? Bless your soul, my boy "-her easy style of speech had become so habitual that its expressions rose to her lips involuntarily- "I have nothing in the house, and have been unable to go out. Indeed, this is the first thought I have given to it." "Let me get the dinner, then." "You reckless youth, do you want to bring yourself to abject poverty? Where's your watch?" she asked shortly. "Here," and he produced it to verify the assertion. "I took it out just now. You forget that to-day is Saturday and that con- sequently I am wealthy." II A fool and his money are soon parted,' " she tersely quoted. "Yes. Get the dinner if you wish, while I give you some light." Making his excuses to Lily, Bayner disappeared for a few minutes, preparatory to the appearance of the dinner brought by the same hair-oleaginous waiter, whose surprise on the previous night, being a susceptible German, had nearly caused him to make a mistake and thereby indulge in gloomy anticipations of suicide by Paris green. The meal was not quite so sumptuous as its predecessor, yet sufficiently so to cause Frank to lay up in her mind many sage admonitions in regard to extravagance, with which Frederick was to be regaled on some occasion when Lily should be absent. She was forgiving enough to allow much in extenuation when she noticed with what pleasure he looked upon the guest, with what delight-unalloyed and scarcely concealed- he served her to whatever she required. In addition to the dinner, there were a dozen oranges and a bottle of cognac for Silva's benefit. Of these Frank took charge, and as she rose from the table asked for the first time: , Where is Tommy?" "He's at the office to-night, editing some telegrams, and won't be able to get away until the paper goes to press-about four o'clock, you know. He said that he would come around to-morrow after breakfast." Frank debated within herself whether she should send for him. The condition of Silva would warrant her in so doing, but as she could not speak, of what use would it be to needlessly disturb him., No. To-morrow would be time enough for him to learn what   J            A LAMP GOES Oox .         283 had occurred. Urged by this consideration she merely requested Frederick to inform him of the accident, and left him alone with Lily, resuming her station by the side of Silva. Then the young people went on a voyage, although they did not move from the lounge. They went on the voyage that we all take at some period of our lives-a voyage over smooth, sparkling seas towards the distant shore of hope fulfilled. Beneath white skies of purely streaming lustre, unflecked by any cloud or stain of doubt, over the broad blue waves that dimple to kiss the fairy boat, reflecting the glow of brighter eyes, wafted by the perfumed wind of unrestrained anticipation, merrily the little craft floated on, coming ever nearer to the goal. Soothed by trust in the future, lulled to peaceful beatitude by rosy dreams, unformed and untangible, cheered by faint fanciful murmurs which seemed to reach him like the sound of far-off silver bells, Frederick drifted on in his fairy boat. The gleaming shore waved and danced before him in magic hues and most inviting form; the wooing wind played gently around him, and the soft sea smiled a kindly greeting to his wistful gaze. On he floated with the stream; Lily's voice sounding low and sweet to his ears; Lily's eyes shining upon him with heaven's own clearness, and Lily's form half concealed by the dazzling mist of glittering golden sparks that seemed to encircle her like an aureole. So the evening faded into night. The faint roar of the -streets ebbed and flowed with fitful force and then died slowly away. The jets of light flashed in the streets. The sky darkled and the large, bright stars shone out with multitudinous winking beams. A rattle and a bang-disturbed them as the envious alarm-clock went off. "Half-past ten," said Frederick rising. "I had no idea it was so late. Luckily, I had nothing to do this evening or I am afraid I should have forgotten it. But I must go now, or I shall have Frank turning me out by the shoulders. Good-night, Miss Vevere; good-night and pleasant dreams." "Good-night and pleasant dreams," she repeated softly, giving him her hand. Pleasant dreams indeed were his that night. Dreams colored and illumined by hopes that he as yet durst not call into visible form; dreams that wheeled about Lily as stars wheel round their sun.    284         LOSING TO WIN. Evening faded into night, and night into the cool grey of early dawn as Frank still sat by the side of Little Silva, giving her a teaspoonful of brandy from time to time. There was no further need for cracked ice, since the bleeding had ceased, but it was necessary for her to be quiet and not speak, lest the scarcely cicatrized blood-vessel should again open and drain what small life remained. Sunday came, calm, still and full of repose; a day of rest for all but newspaper men. Frederick had to write an article upon the day at Central Park, and he went there early that he might collate a sufficient quantity of scenes and incidents; leaving a note for Grains about Silva, for as that gentleman had been unable to get to bed before six he probably would not arise until two or three o'clock. With morning came the doctor. He shook his head again as he felt Silva's feebly fluttering pulse and listened to the slow, lan- guid motion of her heart. There is something awful in the thought that, sleeping or waking, at rest or in motion, whatever passions may stir or agitate us, whatever grief or joy may sink or raise us, this pulsing engine is always at work with its throb, throb, driving the life current through our arteries with ceaseless energy. Never for one moment does it stop. Though our eyes are sealed and our limbs relaxed by the sweet embrace of death's twin-brother, the untiring engine never rests. Though our years stretch out far beyond the allotted term, through the enervating heat of summer and the bracing cold of winter, the monotonous pulsation knows no flagging. Steadily, persistently, it continues until at last an in- visible finger is laid upon it, a cold hand chills the warm busy engine and it stops-rests from its weary labors. But with Silva the fierce struggle of love's delirium and despairing sorrow had worn it out. Her heart became tired; tired of its work, tired of life, tired as she herself. During the morning, the semi-stupor which since the accident had bound her as with leaden bonds, loosened its hold. The clinging unconsciousness fell away from her; she opened her eyes heavily and looked about with a bewildered air. Memory joined the broken strands of her thought; she recalled the scene with Allington as she saw Frank sitting by the bedside reading. They were alone, for Lily had gone to Grace Church, only a few doors from the rabbit warren of a building in which they lived.   A LAMP GOES OUT.         285 Noticing the return of animation, Frank laid down her book. , Hush, dear," she said, placing her hand upon Silva's fore- head. "You must not speak. Here is the baby by your side.," A wasted hand approached the child and rested upon it caressingly. Notwithstanding the injunction, Silva disobeyed it by asking in a low, broken voice : "Am I going to die?" Frank averted her head, shading her tear-filled eyes. The action answered the question. "Where is Tommy?" came next from the thin lips, now almost white. "He will be here this afternoon." Then Silva turned her face to the wall and was silent. So the morning faded into noon, and that into afternoon. Lily again went to church, acknowledging sadly that she could do nothing and was best out of the small rooms. What passed through Frank's mind as she sat there, watching the dying woman -who can tell-? She had grown much attached to Silva during their brief intercourse. So large and gracious was her charity, that though having only bitter thoughts for the sin, she could yet take to her bosom the repentant sinner and mourn with her over a broken, shattered life. Silva had but reaped as she had sown. Sowing the fatal seed in all unconsciousness, she gathered the crop with heavy travail of penitence and tears. Immutable laws permit no infraction. She had offended grievously,;and grievously was she punished. Every action bears its fruit ,for good or ill. It is not enough to regret, to repent. Nature exacts stern repara- tion and says the harvest shall be garnered with an imperiousness which takes no denial, submits to no evasion. Wrong doing breeds its own punishment. The wine may be sweet, but the dregs must be drunken likewise; the flower may be fragrant, but the sting is within its calyx. Silva's time had come to render an account of her life. On what side stood the balance? To no X\  earthly sight is that mystic writing visible. Perhaps the prayers of Frank availed her much, perhaps she was comforted in some strange fashion by the prayers of Lily in the neighboring church whence arose like incense the sound, now faint, now clear, of voices softened and mellowed by intervening space, chanting the "  praise of God and beseeching his mercy on miserable sinners. Noon faded into afternoon, but Tommy came not. g     286         LOSING TO WIN. Situated in the back of the building and hemmed in by high walls, Silva's room received but little light, and at an early hour Frank was compelled to light the lamp to dispel the twilight masses that trooped in thick array through the shadowed window. The clear yellow glow shone upon the motionless form on the bed, and on Frank, still sitting and watching. Nothing could be done: she could but await the inevitable end. About four o'clock a hasty step was heard upon the stairs, hurried and fast. Going to the door, Frank admitted Tommy Grains, pale and staring. "i Where is Silva?" he asked quickly. "I heard about her only five minutes ago." "Wait a moment," and Frank went to the bedside. "Silva, here is Tommy. Do you wish to see him now?" "Yes." She spoke in a husky, thick voice that bore small resemblance to her former silvery, even tones. Frank gave her some brandy, and then, putting on her bonnet and shawl, glided away to leave them in unrestrained converse. For some minutes Tommy sat. near her, holding the thin, small hand she had given him on his entrance, and looking vacantly at the waxen, sunken features; vaguely tracing the wan- dering course of the large blue lines that bound her temple. The yellowr light of the turned-down lamp was dim, and could not drive away the heavy shade that made each corner a cavern of darkness. Through the open window came the mild, scented air of Indian summer, and the low rumbling of an organ's prelude. Then, the scattered chords were gathered into harmony, and loud and imploring swept to them the beseeching strains of the Deaus Mi&sereat rr : "God be merciful unto us, and bless us, and show us the light of His countenance, and be merciful unto us." A large round tear trickled from beneath Silva's drooping eye- lid and rolled slowly down her face; slowly, although following the channel well worn and grooved of its many predecessors. She withdrew her hand from his lingering grasp. "Tommy," she said simply in'her hoarse tones, " 1 am dying." He bowed his head upon his hands and his shoulders heaved once or twice,'but he spoke not a word. "Yes, I am dying," she went on, pressing one hand to her breast, and stopping between each word; " tut I am not afraid.   A LAMP GOES OU:T.         287 Life has been very hard to me, and oh! how often have I prayed that God might be pleased to let me rest. I am thankful He has, at last answered me, and I take it as a sign that I am forgiven." Lower sinks his head until it rests upon the bed. Softer and sweeter comes the mild autumn air; louder and clearer the glori- ous harmony of chiming voices and singing organ as on eagle wings the chant soars upward. There is silence for a brief space until she speaks again. "I could not go, Tommy, without thanking you-thanking you far less than is your due, far less than my hesitating tongue can tell. True, noble friend, the best that ever woman was blessed with. Heaven only can reward you for your goodness to me." She paused. Even upon her pallid cheek comes a faint flush of pink as she says, "Why should I not speak what I think? I should be miserable, Tommy, could I imagine that--that you had ever regarded me with--with feelings other than those of friend- ship. I can imagine what misery you would have suffered if-if loving me,'you had seen me brought to such a pass; with what anguish you would have succored me; with what bravery you would have remained silent and striven to assist me. But I am spared the grief of such a memory. You are my best, my kindest friend-but only a friend." "Only a friend," he repeats in a constrained, quavering voice, his face still hidden. Is it in cruel mockery that recollection brings back thc words he said to Frederick Bayner at Staten Island?"You would-if you could-renounce even her herself- provided that would conduce to her happiness; you would-if you could-conceal from her the knowledge of that renunciation in order to save her an instant's I!an grief." The soaring music has ceased now, and in its place can be faintly heard the low murmur of pleading prayer. Above the lowly burning lamp can be seen a small patch of clear blue sky, far and yet near. The lamp burns lowly, but lower yet burns the lamp of Silva's life; the shadows troop in the corners of the room, but closer yet troop the shadows of death before her dimming sight. The poor, throbbing engine is nearly worn out. "Rest," she softly says, "ah, how sweet, how dear is that word. Rest from the cares and wickednesses of the world, fromin o      288        LOSING TO WIN. the misery and strife- How dark it is getting. The lamp is go- ing out." Yes, the lamp is going out; flickering and fading, it is dying and sinking to the longed-for rest; leaving the garish glitter of this earth for the pure white light beyond the patch of blue that is swiftly coming nearer and nearer. Only a friend," she murmurs, as though consoling herself. "Only a friend," repeats Tommy in a firmer tone, raising his head and looking at the poor whitening features. His secret is a secret no longer. Something in the lines of his drawn and troubled countenance, in the gaze of his listless, sor- rowful eyes, strikes her with sudden anguish. "Tommy, Tommy," she cries piteously, half lifting herself in the bed and flinging her wasted arms around his neck. "I was blind. Forgive me. Oh! Forgive me." Her head droops backwards, a film seems to thicken over the eyes. Silently and reverently he unclasps the arms and lays her down. Even the murmurous voice has ceased now, and no sound breaks the oppressive stillness. He sits holding the thin hand as it gradually becomes colder and colder. Then he lays it across her bosom, and stooping over her, for the first, the only time, kisses the chilled, stiffening lips. The lamp has gone out, and he remains alone in the darkness,   CHAPTER XXXII. A STRONG-MNDED MOTHER. ALTHOUGH Philip Bilter was only a compositor upon the )- Globular, the manner of his becoming employed, through the mediation of Grains, and his constant remembrance of that fact, served to place him upon certain terms of sociability with the two friends. He apparently never forgot that Grains had sue- cored him when he most needed aid, and extended his grateful recognition to Frederick Bayner, more because he was the friend of his helper than for any other reason. But in the course of a few weeks this reason had passed into oblivion, and the two young men became friendly from a mutual regard which their occasional intercourse constantly strengthened. The life of a newspaper writer is not such as to make one pick and choose his acquaint- ance. There are so many clever, even brilliant men, whose qualities shine through their clothing and surroundings like the fabled diamond upon a dunghill, that one soon learns to pay small heed to the shell provided the nut be good. Bayner and Philip Bilter speedily struck up one, of those friendships which, though lacking close companionship on either side, are yet endur- ing and often stand violent tests. This happened the more readily that Bilter, despite his irregu- lar and crude education, was possessed of more knowledge than is usually owned by one in his position. In consequence of an inherent capacity, a native quickness so common to Americans, his varied life and a correct though irregular taste for reading sufficed to give him a superficial show of learning which enabled him to hold his own in any conversation. He furthermore resem- bled his countrymen whom he thus emulated in having no well- grounded basis upon which to erect his ideas. His beliefs were fluctuating because he had never mastered the essential principles of knowledge, but jumped at once to conclusions, which he took 13     =Z;        -JU;.llO 1. W  .VV I t  solely upon the authority of the name by which they were floated. What he knew was like sheet lightning, giving an evanescent  glare which threw a false tinge upon the objects it partially showed and then disappeared to make the darkness yet more  dense by its absence. Like many young men of the day, he believed that the universe had been thoroughly summarized and  accounted for by modern philosophy, and therefore called upon  the evolution hypothesis-which he accepted as the great first  cause perfectly understood-to explain everything. He had the  more excuse for this since his mother and all with whom she asso- ciated were either spiritualists or professed some fantastic form of religion whose essence consisted in first denying all which others included under that title.  Going Monday afternoon into a saloon for lunch, he there  7 found Bayner sitting with a glass of bier before him and reading jj the Globular of that morning. He took his seat on the opposite side of the narrow table.                    i "A good paper to-day," said Bayner, holding the sheet from him and eying it critically with his head on one side. "It is very  well made up."  ( Yes," said Bilter, "I had a hand in that last night, or rather this morning. I have always thought that a paper should be so arranged that when looked at from a distance too far to distin- guish the type, you can perceive a kind of balance. The head-: ings should be disposed so as to set each other off, and the solid and leaded matter alternated so that one column shall not look dark and the other light." "That is a good idea. I can see that it is carried out on the first page here. But I did not know that you did anything besides composition." Nor do I as a regular thing; but once in a while I assist at  the making up, and of course try to do the best I can." "I am glad to hear it. If you keep on, you'll be assistant  foreman some day." " Bilter's face clouded as he answered : I think not. Very likely I shall leave the office this week," * Why, what are you going to do?" "I do not khow." What then do you mean? If there is any trouble, let me know of it. Perhaps I can help you out; at all events I can try."   -...... *-bU  MLx OUTHER. a x Y O U  i N IJJ2S , JV I U I'H E R . 2 9 I "You are very kind, and I'll remember it if I ever have the opportunity, as I shall remember what Grains did for me; but I hardly see in what way you could assist me." "Come," said Bayner encouragingly, " tell me what it is that worries you. You speak of leaving the office, and yet you do not know how you will live after you are gone There is something  cannot understand in that." "It's easy enough," exclaimed Bilter angrily, but quickly sub- siding into his previous morosely gloomy manner. "I must get outside of New York. What between my mother and the people coming to see her, my life is a burden. Things gave promise f being better lately- I suppose you heard of the row among the women-righters." I should think so, said Bayne.  reported the meeting which it took place."e Then you know how my mother was treated." Bayner nodded an affirmative, being too busy in draining his glass to give other answer. "Well, since they turned her out and elected that confounded old maid, Miss Thruggser, to take her position, she is worse than before. Then, she could think of nothing but collective women's rights, now, she thinks of nothing but her individual wrongs; is of what she has lost; then, she indulged in anticipation, now, she looks backward to the past. For the first few days she was so disgusted that I thought she was cured, but the fit soon passed "But," said Bayner, " if her connection with that disreputable set is severed, I should think that you would be rather gratified than otherwise." "So I am-very much gratified," Bilter rejoined energetically; "but I have no more of a home than when my mother was buried in correspondence and constantly either receiving sympathizers or absent to communicate with them on some crack-brained scheme to set the city agog." 'How so? Does she not stay in the house now?" "Indeed she does, and that is the reason why I am there as little as possible. So soon as I enter, she immediately opens Upon me with a recital of her wrongs, and insists that I shall listen to a minute account of every circutmstance. It is of no use to tell her     292        LOSING TO WIN. that I know the whole story by heart-I might as well attempt to dam Niagara with a twig as stop her with any remonstrance. When she is tired of that, she launches into invective against those whom she calls the usurpers, and laments the degradation which has been brought upon the fair banner of women's rights." "What does she mean by that?" "The supremacy of the free-lovers, I presume." "What folly!" exclaimed Bayner. "Is she actually so short- sighted as not to see that they have only arrived whither she has been leading them. Unless I am very much mistaken she her- self has made speeches favoring relaxation of the divorce law." "So she has, and is now inconsistent enough to condemn those who draw logical deductions from the premises which she has laid down. You know, however, that all the 'wild women' hold logic in supreme contempt." "Hardly more than human nature, which they think can be revolutionized by statute," rejoined Bayner laughing. "I am tired of this talk about women's rights. They have already the same rights as men-the right to work at anything they please and be paid as much as they can get. No man can do more than that, and speech-making from now to eternity will not alter it. As to their voting-when they understand that the ballot is a privilege conferred as society deems fit and not the birthright they take it to be, there will be some hope for them. But this is wandering from the subject. You have not told me why you intend leaving the city." "To get away from my mother." The words sounded harsh and coarse, but he uttered them sadly, regretfully even. "Yes," he continued, following his train of thought, "I can stand it no longer. Her ceaseless talk would drive me mad, I believe, if I had to endure it many more weeks. Imagine the situation: I come home tired with work. There is never any- thing ready for me to eat, even if there are provisions in the house. My room is dirty and disorderly. Very often, nearly always in fact, I am obliged to make my own bed. The whole house is upside-down, in a constant confusion; not the slightest attention or the slightest' care is given to anything. My money goes, I know not how. The servant is changed two or three times each week   A STRONG-MNDED MOTHER.  293 -rarely stopping more than three days. I work hard to earn as much as I can, but it is like pouring water into a sieve." "Your mother must do something " "She does. When I am not in the house she spends all her time working upon a manifesto wherein she sets forth at great length her story mingled with abuse of the triumphant faction. She will think of nothing else, and is already beginning to pester me about securing its publication. No; I give it up--I cannot carry on the struggle any longer. When I got on the Globuzar, I thought that at last I had an opportunity to do something, and so, in the intervals of work, read and tried to improve myself." "You have succeeded," said Bayner. I never saw any one alter in so short a time as you have. The change is very percep- tible I can see it in every word you speak." "It does me no good; it is impossible for me to rise while hampered as I am. How can I do better work, obtain a better place," he colored highly but went on without hesitation, a when so soon as I mention my name, the first question is, 'Any connen tion of the great Mrs. Bilter 'asked in a sneering tone. I answer Yes,' as has happened, that alone is sufficient reason for refusing me. Pleasant, is it not?"he concluded, with a harsh laugh. "Why do you not change your name?" And sail under false colors. Thank you, I have not come to that." Bayner colored also as he said,I see no objection to it." "I do. I will not live a lie." Bayner colored higher than before, but remained silent. "Besides," resumed Philip, "t there would be the risk of detection, exposure, and, of course, expulsion. My only chance is, as I have said, to get away from my mother." After all," said Bayner, "you should remember that she is your mother." "I do not recognize any obligation in that," said Bilter, his notions coming to the surface. "Mother! I should like to know when she has ever shown towards me a mother's love, a mother's care. When young, I was sent to the public school to be got rid of and after school hours turned out into the streets for the same reason. I had no education, not even the education of my feelings which a home should bestow. Left to tumble up whichever way I could with the least annoyance of my preseice to her, my mother     294         LOSING TO WIN. was anxious only that I should not disturb her, should keep out of her sight as much as possible. Provided that I was out of the way, she was satisfied. My associates might have been the scum of the city for aught that she appeared to care. A poor little entity like me could find no room in her world-grasping mind," he said bitterly. "Was it always so?" "Always. As I grew older it was mere chance alone which saved me from being probably a criminal. Fortunately my tastes did not incline in that direction, and as I had a natural desire for occupation, work kept me from the danger of too much license. I used to get drunk, though, very often. There was nothing to keep me from it. I had no home, no friends, no companions but my fellow-laborers." But you have left off that, now?" "Yes. Grains is responsible for my giving up drinking. It is a bad thing to do, but then one forgets his troubles so easily." "Only to remember them the more keenly with added regret for his folly. So you are determined upon leaving New York?" "I shall positively go at the end of this week." "Where?" "One place will suit me as well as another." "See here, Bilter," said Frederick, after a few moments' con- sideration. "I have just thought of something which is out of town, and which will also give you an opportunity to make a hit, if you manage it well." "s All I want is the opportunity," said Bilter eagerly. "I think Saxton would consent, for it would be capital for the paper." "What is it?" - Some tilne ago he sent me up to Stemwell to write a letter about a threatened strike in the brick-yard there. I found things quiet, but promising before long to be lively. Saxton told me to keep my eye on the place, and from what I learn by the local papers matters are evidently approaching a crisis. Now, my idea is that you should go there as a laborer-they have been advertising for extra hands-join the Union, and write letters giving the workmen's side of the question. The men would, I should think, be glad to have one of their number corresponding with a city daily, so that   A STRONG-MNDED MOTHER. if they struck, their reasons should be given and every extenuation brought forward." "That is a good idea," said Bilter slowly. "I am quite in- clined to adopt it. As you say, it would be a good opportunity to make a hit, and-yes, I will do it." "Wait here for me then, while I go and suggest it to Saxton. I ought to be at the office now, anyway, to see what I have to di this afternoon."       , i ii.11    Bayner was soon up stairs in the Globtlar office, and looking at the reporters' day-book found his name down for a political ! Inmeeting in the evening.  Mentioning his idea to Mr. Saxton, that sagacious nmanaging editor was much pleased with it and asked that Bilter be sent to talk it over, telling Frederick at the same time to continue his lookout-for the strike and be ready to depart for Stemwell as soon as it occurred. With this news, Bayner re- turned to his companion. Bilter immediately saw Mr. Saxton and fully discussed the plan, receiving his instructions and also a recommendation to go at once, since it would take several days for him to become fami- liar with the situation. Obtaining payment for what work hie had done so far in the week, he was given a bundle of envelopes with the paper's address printed upon them, and went back to take leave of Bayner. "Good-bye," he said, extending his hand. "You have been kind to me and I   shall not forget it. If ever you want a friend, if I  can ever be of any service, let me know." "I will," said Bayner, half smiling at the apparent improba- bility of his ever calling upon the speaker, and shaking hands. "I  will without hesitation." "Where is Grains? I should like to see him before I go." "Grains? I  don't know." "Remember me to him." Where was Grains?   He was not at the office, for Frederick had just been there. They had not met at breakfast, nor-think- ing of it-had he   seen Tommy since Silva's illness. Naturally desirous to learn what had been the result of the accident, Fred- erick thought he could hardly be more certain of meeting his friend than by waiting for him in the lager-bier saloon, that being the place where he would most likely come for any one whom he did not find at the office.     296  .       LOSING TO WIN. He resumed his seat and paper, but was no longer interested in its news. He was thinking of Philip Bilter's determination. It was curious that he should go to Stemwell. Everything seemed to centre about that place. There he had seen Lily Vevere for the first time. There he had--but it was of no use to carry his mind farther in that direction. Remembering what Bilter had said, he recalled the words that since he had been advised by Grains his life had been better. What an influence for the right Tommy had over those with whom he came into intimate contact. He was certainly one of the best fellows that ever lived. He had said truly that once in each man's life comes a time when he must definitely decide under which king-he will serve--whether under Ormuzd or AkSiman. Frederick often recalled that conversation and the encouragement then received. Much of his life had been wasted, some of it evil; but the few words spoken at the right time, the haunting vision of a pure, sweet face sufficed to draw him from mud to solid ground. He had chosen his sovereign and felt so strong in his resolutions that he could not conceive their melting before any fire. He smiled as he half-consciously imi- tated the whistle of the evilly-disposed parrot. It was droll that the bird should have selected that particular strain. Frederick whistled it under his breath but with a difference of spelling: Lily Lily-lillibullero. But Grains did not come. The hands of the clock crept slowly onward, the streets were filled with people going from their day's work, evening dropped as though the sun were turned off like gas in a theatre, and the lamps began to pop up their heads of flame from the level of circumambient darkness, but Tommy came not. Frederick looked at his watch: he had only time to dine and be at his political meeting just before its com- mencement. Going into the counting-room of the Globular, he wrote a line to Tommy, asking him to wait so they might go up town together, and then went to his dinner. The meeting was in Brooklyn or he might have stopped at Frank's to learn the news. In the mean time Philip Bilter was in the evening express, travelling towards Stemwell at the rate of thirty miles an hour. Although his action had been' sudden, it was the result of a long and seriously considered determination. It was a fact that he could live with his mother no longer. In describing his home to Bayner he had omitted many unpleasant details. She had never   A STRONG-MNDED MOTHER.        297 even pretended to give the least consideration to either his com- fort or convenience, and he foresaw plainly that did he not leave the Globular office voluntarily, he would speedily be discharged. As her fulminating fuliginous pronunciamento approached com- pletion he knew that the old story would be repeated. She would make a descent upon the office, insist upon his coming with her to the managing editor, demand the publication of her document, and, upon that demand being refused-as would certainly happen, for when he had last seen the manuscript it was lengthy enough to fill a complete page of the paper-hoist the black flag and hale him under it. The result would be an immediate dismissal. He congratulated himself upon leaving in time to avoid such a scene, and particularly upon the fortunate arrangement he had been able to effect with Mr. Saxton. When he told his mother that afternoon that he was going out of town she merely responded that he knew his own business best, and had given him her hand carelessly while digressing into a statement of her wrongs. Shaking hands was the utmost familiarity that ever passed between this mother and son; kissing or embracing being totally unknown to either, and Mrs. Bilter condemning it not only in the abstract but also in the concrete as unworthy the dignified position she labored to attain. Before taking his stage to the station, Philip's last visit was to '   his constant friend, Mr. Snoggles. He found the old man giving an extra touch to the pointed ears of the representation of our an- i2  thropoidal ancestor, which was finally completed to the satisfaction of its owner. To him Philip told substantially what he had already narrated to Frederick Bayner of his reasons for departure. "Well, Phil," said Mr. Snoggles cheerily, "I guess it's about the best thing you could do. You don't feel very good now, an' if you staid here you might git into bad company an' go to pot. 'Sides, that's a bully chance you've got about writin' letters. Lordy! you'd oughter make a big thing out o' them." "I shall try," said Philip resolutely. "It will not be my fault if I do not succeed. But there is something I wanted to speak to you about." Out with it, my boy. Let's hear what you've got to say." AHt   "It is about my mother," said Philip after a pause, his better feelings getting the upper hand of his notions. You know her- have been to the house, I believe." 13*     298         LOSING TO WIN. , Know her!" exclaimed Mr. Snoggles enthusiastically. "Why, I know her just like a book, an' she knows me, too; thinks I'm one o' the gayest philosophers there is out." "W Will you go to see her once in a while, and let me know how she is getting on? I cannot imagine how she will live now, and if she is in any serious trouble telegraph me." , Never you fear. I'll keep watch, and everything 'll go as straight as a line." ir. Snoggles would not allow his visitor to depart until they had each emptied a glass of bier to the health of the new corre- spondent of the Globular, with hearty wishes as to his success in achieving reputation   CHAPTER    XXXIII. A TEMPESTUOUS   TEAPOT. HARRIET was not the person to postpone what she had once resolved upon doing. To repay her sister's insinuations against Lily, she had determined that Mr. Joles should become a victim to the bow of her mouth and the spear of her eyes. She knew pretty well the difficulty of ensnaring a man so much run after by the younger ladies of his congregation as was the fash- ionable ritualistic clergyman, but still considered that she would be easily able to make him triansfer his allegiance to her from i Eliza. In the first place, she was prettier than her sister; that was a fact wihich could be ascertained by the exercise of avery small allowance of vanity. Then, she could talk about nearly all subjects which were of daily prominence in a lively, entertaining fashion; whereas Eliza for the most part confined herself to sucll topics as the aesthetics of candlesticks-very interesting, but apt to become slightly monotonous after a while. Harriet did not rea- son out her advantages one by one, but rather comprehended them in a single rapid glance as Napoleon may have surveyed his artil- lery before the battle of Leipsic, noting it complacently and observing it closely only where a weak spot appeared. Above all, she pos- sessed the great secret of success-a steady determination to win. Inspired with these ideas and flushed with anticipations, of her coming triumph, Harriet began operations on the very evening of the day when she had resolved upon her course. Mr. Joles hap- pened to call that night, as he did several times 'every week, but instead of withdrawing into the back parlor and leaving the front parlor to him and Eliza, after her custom, Harriet stood her ground, or, more correctly, kept her chair, interrupting the t6te-&-t6te. "AS  Eliza made small attempt to conceal her annoyance atHarriet's not only remaining but assuming a sprightly share of the talk. At length she said with dry asperity:     300         LOSING TO WIN. A"Harriet, dear, won't you please play that arrangement of Tannhauser you were practising the other day? I should like to hear it." "Please do," added Mr. Joles, beaming upon her, quite grati- fied at the unaccustomed attention she paid him. "Certainly," said Harriet rising and turning partly around so as to wink wickedly at her sister; " with all the pleasure imagi- nable. Come, Mr. Joles, you must turn over the leaves for me." She carried him away to the piano and kept him there, making the merest pretence of playing by occasionally running her fingers idly over the keys while sustaining a busy conversation with the captured clergyman. Eliza remained discomfited upon the sofa where they left her, watching Harriet upon the piano stool, and the lean, black-coated figure bending over her. She was in no wise smitten with the Rev. Mr. Joles. but none the less felt exceedingly disgusted at Harriet's bold appropriation of what she had come to look upon as her own especial property. She was not of a natuie to fall in love either readily or intently. Her character was too introspec- tiv e; she was too fond of pampering her mind with factitious sen- timents for it to be susceptible to any healthy impression. She was in the habit of investing her male acquaintance with a cer- tain sickly platonism, vapid and unreal as her fanciful religiosity. She lived in an atmosphere of her own imagining. Like only too many othef girls, given to introspection, who have plenty of waste time upon their hands, she fell into the error of mistaking her sym- pathies for feelings, her sensations for emotions, and her apprecia- tive faculty for repressed creativeness. Though surrounded with all to make her happy, a luxurious house, an indulgent father, and a sister who at bottom really loved her, she was fond of thinking herself unhappy ; of thinking with a curious satisfaction that she was misunderstood, unappreciated-cherishing these two words as though they did not possess the power to expand and destroy home comfort for her as they have done for others. This morbid self- consciousness often with women in our high-strung climate develops into a nervous disease; the sufferer never being able to divest herself of an intense idea of personality, fancying that the eyes of all in the room are upon her at every moment, that their owners are internally commenting upon her appearance, criticis- ing her dress, her hair, her motions, her each word. Eliza had   A TEMPESTUOUS TEAPOT.         30 301 not yet reached this doleful extremity, but was on the high road towards it. And this bent to her character was fostered rather than checked by assiduous attendance upon church. Oblivious to all that is really beautiful and good in what is known as ritualism not knowing or forgetting that the pure-minded enthusiasts who started the "1 Oxford movement " had for their objective point a return to the more earnest faith and deeper belief of older times-- as well as its moral subjection and intellectual fogginess-she thought of nothing but the externals: Though she would have made herself ill sooner than eat meat on a Friday, she never dreamed of fasting from a new bonnet. She was liberal in her charity-for it required no greater effort than that of asking her father for money; she was constant in church-going-for She had nothing to do at home; she was scrupulous in her observance of saints' days-for they gave her something to think about. The most curious trait in her character was that she had no idea of being a humbug; she fully believed in herself, and, though at intervals a transient gleam of the truth would come to her, she thought on the whole that she differed from other girls only in a greater development of the spiritual and reflective qualities. The reflec- tion that she was thinking only as hundreds have thought, passing through the same  mental phases, would have dissipated these fancies like a soap-bubble. She made little effort to repress these traits, which our puritan predecessors were in the habit of distinguishing by one compre- hensive term--the old Adam. It was easier to read pious books than withhold an ill-natured remark; less annoying to sometimes wear a  little cross having a few sharp points on the under side than to appear in public. in an old bonnet. Reflections upon her ideas were rather agreeable than otherwise, since they inspired her with a  complacent feeling of disdain for their authors which she considered herself justified in indulging. But reflections upon her dress, particularly if the reflections were correct as to oddity of fashion  or age of style, would have rendered her unhappy for a week. A   new dress and bonnet, embodying the latest freak of fashion, more than consoled her for the semi-contempt of mental peculiarities which she found no difficulty in shaping into a com- pliment. Still, she could not in the strict meaning of the word be called selfish; she rather shared the common fault of so considering her-     302         LOSING TO WIN. self that all others appeared dwarfed. Their interests, feelings, emotions might perhaps be of importance to them; but hers were so much more worthy of attention that it needed no effort for her to regard herself as the centre of her social solar system. So habituated to esteem herself, and having, moreover, very clearly defined ideas upon the rights of elder sisters, she was quite discomfited at the sudden flank movement by which Mr. Joles had been hurried into the lines of the enemy. For some fifteen or twenty minutes she sat quiet with what she imagined an expres- sion of dignified forbearance, but which Harriet, looking slyly from the corners of her eyes, took to be one of sulkiness-so liable are we all to error. But as Eliza saw no sign of the colloquy at the piano coming to an end, she arose to join her sister and the clergyman. "Oh, Eliza," said Harriet as she came towards them, "you don't know what interesting things Mr. Joles has been telling me. He was describing the dissenters and saying how many of them there were in New York. Isn't it funny that we should have dis- senters where there is no established church?" Eliza smiled superior, arching her eyebrows as one who pities ignorance but is too polite to rebuke it; then said coolly: You must have enough music by this time, Mr. Joles. Will you not now tell me about the new guild you are forming?  Of course the clergyman could do nothing less than comply, especially as he expected a liberal subscription from Mr. Wharton, and so the former places in the front parlor were resumed. Eliza tried by all means possible to edge her sister out of the conversation, after the frequently successful manner of plainly ignoring the unwelcome third person. Although Harriet strug- gled bravely against the wet sponge which continually wiped out her remarks, she would have succumbed in a short time had not Mr. Joles inadvertently as often come to her rescue. He perceived nothing of the internecine warfare going on under his nose. All that his social strabismus allowed him to notice was that two young and pretty girls were talking to him and apparently listening to his speeches as though he were their guiding philosophic friend; that the one had the more technical church knowledge and the other the better conversational ability. He was more taken by Harriet, shifting about from one topic to another, flying off at a tangent, following any will-o'-the-wisp notion which happened to   A TEMPESTUOUS TEAPOT.         303 come into her mind, than by Eliza's prosaic method of keeping to the matter in hand and, like a tight-rope dancer, preserving an elaborately correct balance. Thus the evening passed. When Mr. Joles took his leave he shook hands warmly with Harriet and hoped that he should see her at his church during the week. No sooner had the street door closed behind him than Harriet leaned back in her chair and laughed heartily. "I hope he will see me at his church," she said. "Does he suppose that I am going to any of his preposterous early services. I wonder?" "You certainly gave him every reason to think that you liked him extremely," said Eliza dryly. So I do. The parson's quite a nice little fellow, after all," continued Harriet, using words and a tone which she justly calcu- lated. would exasperate her sister. "I did not give him credit for having so much ' savey,' as Cray says." "In speaking of the church, Harriet, and of those who belopg to it," Eliza retorted, determined to remain cool, "I would at least endeavor to dispense with slang. And since you refer to Mr. Rolm, I should think he would be hardly pleased at yout making so much of Father Joles." "Pooh," said Harriet, tossing her head; "Cray is too confiding to imagine that I could do anything not just right." After this the two sisters rubbed cheeks, the sororial style of kissing, and departed to their respective rooms, Harriet very well satisfied with her first evening's experience of Mr. Joles. In the course of two or three days he again called, and again Harriet perversely refused to make herself a dummy agreeable to Eliza by going to the piano, but substantially repeated the formei performance. Like the ingenious busy bee, she so neatly spread her wax to hinder Mr. Joles from deserting her, that no manoeu- vres Eliza was able to direct could withdraw him from what was rapidly becoming the witchery of her smiles and conversation. Eliza was too self-contained to allow her sister the triumph of witnessing the mortification she experienced at seeing her fancied empire fade like a dissolving view. This mortification in no degree arose from regarding the clergyman with feelings other than those of cool, friendly liking; but from a perception and enforced recog- nition of the fact that what she had always looked down upon as      304         LOSING TO WIN. mere trifling accomplishments, worldly attractions, should not only prevail over her serious and-as she thought-better stored mind, but should also have sufficient weight with Mr. Joles to make him abandon instructive conversation for frivolous empti- ness. She began to have lengthy discussions with herself upon the advisability of becoming a Roman Catholic; of joining a church where the priests do not flirt nor can sisters carry away spiritual advisers. "I never thought that Father Joles was so light-minded," she mused, " that he could prefer hearing of the new opera to speak- ing of the debates in England upon the Athanasian Creed." Mr. Joles was every day getting nearer a condition to meta- phorically lay himself at Harriet's feet. She expressed her oppo- sition to celibacy of the clergy, to which he had previously given a strenuous support, and now took a mischievous gratification in noticing that his doctrinal allegiance decidedly wavered. It really seemed as though a little more judicious angling would bring him out of the brook of opinion altogether and land him upon the  ground, there to be placed in whatever party-colored basket Har- riet might determine. If Cray Rolm had been in the city, Eliza could easily have turned the tables. But he was unluckily off duck-shooting in Canada, and so she could but await his arrival in hopes that jealousy might then stir into storm the usually placid and un- ruffled surface of his affections. About the latter part of October, Rolm returned, flushed with sport and a large bag of birds. In the evening he called at Mr. Wharton's to narrate his  exploits, and was in the midst of an involved account of how he had seen the wonderful sight of a dozen black duck in one flock and had secured five of them with two barrels-when the front door was opened and Mr. Joles came in. The two gentlemen were introduced, and then Eliza said quietly: "You need not forego your usual "-with a slight emphasis-  "tte-a-tte with Mr. Joles, Harriet. I have no doubt that Mr. Rolm will be good enough to entertain me."  Mr. Rolm's face at this speech indicated a very lively disincli- nation to be good in any manner. Instead of answering, he eyed Harriet and the clergyman; whereupon she, of course, rose and crossed to a sofa at the end of the room, saying:   A TEMPESTUOUS TEAPOT,        305 "Come, Mr. Joles, sit here. I want you to tell me some more about what you saw in Germany." Eliza began a conversation with Rolm. "Do you not find it very fatiguing to get up before sunrise when you are hunting?" she asked, innocently ignoring the change. "No; it's not half so tiresome as staying up until morning. But, I say," and he lowered his voice, ", who is that parson?' "Only Harriet's latest victim." "Has he been coming here much?" Eliza hardly relished this style of cross-examination, but an- swered blandly: "Oh, yes; frequently; four or five times a week." The luckless lover's countenance was a fine illustration of Collins' celebrated ode as he glanced to where Harriet was touch- ing off Mr. Joles as though he were a Catherine wheel, mak- ing him to shine with much spluttering brilliancy. Rolm's jaw dropped; he looked as despondent as if he had lived on railroad restaurant fare during his entire absence. At the same time his face clouded; evidently his mental barometer was veering around to the point marked stormy. Eliza tried hard to keep the conversational shuttlecock in the air, but despite her best efforts it continually fell to the ground. She was a good battledoor, but Rolm, as he himself would have acknowledged with that ingenuous use of slang so pleasing in the New York youth, "couldn't pan out worth a cent." Yet she persevered. "It must be hardly a pleasant change from a comfortable house to sleeping in the woods on spruce branches and rubber blanket." "Spruce makes the best bed I ever had," replied poor Rolm, vaguely conscious that he was not fulfilling the duty of a young man's evening call. "Do they always go off in a corner that way?" "Usually. How many ducks did your companions obtain?" "I don't know- What do they talk about?" "How can I tell?"And Eliza opened her eyes. "Why, of course you know what a fellow says when he's spoony," answered Rolm, irritated at what he considered an at- tempt at playing demure ignorance.     306         LOSING TO WIN. Eliza laughed. "Thank you for the implied compliment; but if I am not mistaken you have had some experience in that line yourself." "Well, it's different with me," said Rolm, extracting a faint consolation from his words. "I'm a man, you see; but he-why" -contemptuously-" he's only a parson." "I consider a clergyman fully the equal of any man and supe- rior to most," said Eliza, straightening herself and drawing her head down upon her neck. "Oh, I didn't mean that, you know," apologized Rolm humbly, perceiving his mistake. "But then, you know, it isn't the right thing for parsons to be running 'round after girls and being sweet on them. Is it now?" he concluded pleadingly. Eliza's rebuking dignity vanished. "That depends, Mr. Rolm, very much upon individual opinions as to whether clergymen should marry or not." "Do you know what this one thinks about it?" Rolm asked the question tremblingly, hesitatingly. He had no doubt but that Harriet would discard him at a moment's notice, should the fancy seize her. It was only by almost servile obe- dience to her caprices that he had obtained in her affections what little place he there owned. He thought, and with justice, that she resembled a cat in disposition to scratch if the fur were rubbed the wrong way, and therefore stroked her feelings with continual apprehension of a sudden claw. But never before had he been treated in this manner; never before had Harriet given him an open cut direct by leaving him immediately upon the entrance of another. Not alone was Rolm smitten in his affections; he was wounded in his sensibility at Harriet's apparent indifference. It was hard that he should be thus flouted after his patient servitude; very hard, so he told himself, vowing that he would speedily have an explanation. As he sat in silence watching with uneasy eyes Mr. Joles and her sister, Eliza readily interpreted the changes which passed over- his countenance. She saw that Harriet could not relieve herself without difficulty from the truthfulness of the charge that she had wilfully played with either Mr. Joles or Rolm. Since Harriet had always professed herself of the belief that men are so far different from pianos that they should be played upon only at rare intervals,   A TEMPESTUOUS TEAPOT.        307 Eliza enjoyed by anticipation the delight one woman feels in prov- ing another a flirt and coquette. "When's the fellow going?" asked Rolm abruptly. Eliza looked at him gravely. "Do you mean Mr. Joles?" "Of course. Confound him! I wish I had him out in the woods. Do you think he will stay much longer?" "He is often quite late." Rolm rose and hurried away, merely bowing to the sisters and bestowing upon the clergyman only a slight nod. Early the next afternoon he called, and sent up his card to Harriet. Coming down, she was surprised to see him looking as if he had not slept during the preceding night; surprised and sorry, since her liking for him had deeper foundations than she knew. it was like a tree, the far-reaching growth of whose roots is only noticeable when an attempt is made to transplant it. She really had quite an amount of affection for the tender-hearted young fel- low who did all her behests so unquestioningly, and who, despite his slang, was as chivalric in his love for her as'could be expected from any modern Bayard. "Why, Cray," she exclaimed, "what is the matter with you? You look very badly." There was a touch of true concern in her voice as the reflec- tion occurred to her that her flirtation might have driven him to pass the night as too many of his friends were in the habit of doing. "I look badly," he echoed gloomily. "I should think I ought -it's the way I feel." "What has affected you so unpleasantly?" she asked, unable to control her habit of addressing him. "I hope your breakfast was good." His only answer was to start from the chair and pace up and down the parlor. "' Don't do that," she cried. "You make me nervous." He halted, and stood leaning against the mantel-piece, furious at himself for not speaking and yet unable to find words sufficiently expressive of his emotions. Like all young men he was of the firm opinion that no one had ever before felt, that no one had ever before suffered as he suffered; that Prometheus was nothing to i           , n     30S         LOSING TO WIN. him, and that the torture of Marsyas should not be mentioned in the same breath with his. Lifting his eyes from an elaborate study of the carpet pattern, he saw Harriet watching him with an amused expression. "Come," she said, "sit down here on the sofa and tell me what is the matter." Drawing aside her spreading skirts, she made room for him, so close that he could look clearly into her soft eyes, inhale the faint perfume emanating from her-in a word, become perfectly subject to the magnetic battery. The propinquity affected him profoundly, and at the same time furnished him with words. "Oh, Miss Harriet," he exclaimed, "I know just as well as you do that I ain't worth much, but that don't prevent my feeling very badly when you are not as you used to be to me. Last night I came here, fresh from having a first-rate time, to tell you all about it. And then, as soon as that parson came in, you went right off with him, and didn't give me another show all the evening." "I must be polite to visitors " she said. "Besides, you know, Cray, that although I like you very much, I want, once in a while, to talk to some one else." "Yes, yes," he said impatiently. "But talking is a different thing from a regular tete-h-tete. Come, now, Miss Harriet, you know that I love you-." He hesitated, astonished at his audacity in having at last said the words he had many months been trying to utter. -Harriet took the sudden disclosure quietly, turning her eyes upon him. "You know it," he went on boldly; "must have known it a long time; so why won't you just be engaged, and then I needn't bother any more about what fellows you talk to?" "If I were to say I would marry you," asked Harriet gravely, do you mean that I could have long conversations with Mr. Joles whenever I wished?" "\ ell, not him-anybody else." And be perfectly free as I always have been?" "Oh, yes.' "And that you will not trouble me by dangling about where- ever I go?"   A TEMPESTUOUS TEAPOT.  309 "Of course not," his features taking a look of lofty contempt; "you don't suppose I'd spoon,' do you?" "Will you promise all that?" "Yes; anything you like;" his face lighting up as if the gas had been turnedon inside. "Well, then," she said slowly, " since I can do just as I please, and be exactly as I am now, I really think that upon the whole--" he tried to take her hand, but she withdrew it saying, not yet- I really think that on the whole I will not." The gas was turned out; his face was in utter darkness. "You foolish Cray,' she said half-laughing and rising; " don't you understand that if I were engaged I should want you about me all the time; that I should be angry if you did not care to whom I talked or how long?" Poor Rolm was very crestfallen, but his honest nature was keenly touched by this last stroke. "Harriet," he said, also rising and standing near her, his eyes growing moist, though he blinked furiously; "I said yes to all your questions because I would cut myself into little pieces to please you. By what I felt last night when you would hardly notice me, I can guess what I should feel were you to do as you said. But, provided you wished it, I should try and endure it. Still, I thought that you had some regard for me--" "How do you know that I have not?" "You said so." "Never!" The gas-work produced another illumination, and Cray made another dash for her hand, like a hungry dog after a bone. "Wait, wait," said Harriet, stepping back. "Do not be so fast. I do like you a little, a very, very tiny little, and if you are a good boy I may like you more. But you must be nice, and not jealous of every one." "The idea of my being jealous! Will you send Joles away the next time he comes?" "I'll think about it." When Eliza came down stairs to dinner she found Harriet and Cray still in the front parlor; from which occurrence she made the sage deduction that Father Joles would now return to his former allegiance. How the deserter should be received was a question for further consideration.     CHAPTER XXXIV. MR. SNOGGLES RECANTS. THE anthropoidal ancestor was as last finished, and Mr. Snog- gles stood surveying it in a complacent ecstasy of admiration; his head thrown back, his mouth wide open and his hands in his pockets. The alterations insisted upon by the hypercritical show- man had been successfully carried out; the rudimentary tail was plainly apparent, and the pointed ears almost sharp enough to prick an unwary finger. In every respect the monster was now complete enough to more than fulfil the wishes of its owner by furnishing a capital argumentum ad hominem against the develop- ment theory, since all would repudiate strenuously any idea of de- scent from such an animal. But, during the time that Mr. Snoggles had been engaged upon this glorious piece of workmanship, his business had sadly de- creased. So absorbed. was he in his occupation of restoring the missing link, that the jobs by which he was accustomed to earn his livelihood had been turned over to his assistant, Zachariah, in order that he might undisturbed give his whole mind to the affair. By this, two rather unexpected results were obtained, neither of which met the approbation of customers. The job in question was never ready at the appointed time, and when ready was of a kind to call forth comments more energetic than complimentary, and vows of never coming near the shop again. As custom declined, Zachariah, both to keep his hand in and to acquire more facility, essayed restuffing the specimens in the window. After a month's practice upon them, that unfortunate ornithological collection exhibited worse signs of deformity and more wonderful contor- tions than had ever before attracted the gaze of the neighborhood. Where the birds had previously looked merely malformed they now appeared as though passing through all the stages of delirium  tremens, from incipient craziness down to raving madness; they   MR. SNOGGLES RECANTS.        3 r were rickety, lopsided, leaning against each other heavily, and the greater number had their heads cocked on one side with anything but an engaging leer. The climax was one day attained by the display of a mouldy owl, possessing such an extraordinarily hide- ous demeanor that, like vice, to be hated it needed but to be seen. The wild newsboys shrank in terror from its contemplation, though a fearful fascination seemed to attract them to its vicinity, flatten- ing their noses against the glass. Nurses carrying susceptible babies would cross to the opposite side of the street. So soon as noticed, Snoggles removed the frightful image, but, unfortunately, not before it had been seen by the principal customer--the proprie- tor of an up-town museum-who turned away without entering, thinking that the bird-stuffer must have gone mad. Very little suffices to break up such a business, supported almost entirely by some dozen people only, and so a few weeks saw Mr. Snoggles' trade dispersed to the winds and his clients to other places. Absorbed in the ape, he gave little attention to it at first, and even now hardly recognized the fact. For fully twenty minutes he stood proudly surveying his handi- work, thinking it an admirable thing and himself extremely clever. Then, without changing his position, he called: "Zack." In answer to the summons, Zachariah came shambling out from the little room in the rear where, like his master, he had been rapturously gazing upon Azs handiwork as manifested in the mouldy owl. "There, Zack9" cried Mr. Snoggles, thrusting his hands yet deeper into his pockets, and settling his head down upon his shoul- ders. "What do you think of that for an anthrop-anthropo- morphous ancestor?"He was not quite sure of the word, and so brought it out with an air of defiance as if to challenge correction. "Well, Mr. Snoggles," said Zack slowly through his nose, after his wont, "you know that i ain't no infidel, an' so I don't think much of him." "You're a donkey, Zack, and can't tell a good job when you see it." "Maybe; but anyhow I ain't no infidel, and I ain't a-goin' to believe that I come from any such a lookin' thing as that there." Ever since the beginning of the work upon this artistic speci.     31T 2        LOSING TO WIN. men, Zachariah had never lost an opportunity to inform all visitors that he was free from any tinge of infidelity, and to entice his master into a theological controversy; but this time his words failed to obtain a result. After a few more moments of contem- plation, Mr. Snoggles said: "1 Zack, I wish you'd go around to the Globular office and see if Mr. Grains is there." "There ain't no use in goin'. Haven't I been there twice this week a'ready?" it Never mind; try it again. If you find him, ask him to come and see me." Grumblingly putting on a dilapidated beaver hat, Zack slouched out into the street, walking as though his joints were dislocated like those of a pre-Raphaelite saint. In a short time a measured heavy step was heard approaching, distinctly sounding on the quiet pavement, then the latch was lifted and Tommy Grains entered. It was almost a month since the death of Little Silva. His face at first sight looked greatly changed, yet, upon a closer inspection, no definable alteration could be perceived. Only a careful physiognomist would have noticed that its lines were now turned down instead of curving up as before. His eyes were, so to speak, veiled; as if a faint haze hung over them, hid- ing their meaning from sight. He was like his former self, and yet strangely unlike-an alteration too slight to be put into words and which seemed to vanish when searching for its details. To make a fanciful comparison, there was a shade upon him as there is a shade upon a landscape when a filmy cloud, scarce to be seen by gazing eye, passes between it and the sun. When he spoke, the alteration was more apparent. The resonance had gone from his voice; it was still clear, but lacked its old hearty round- ness. He returned Mr. Snoggles' salutation, and informed him that Zachariah had departed up town for some unknown reason. -"I know what he's gone for," said Mr. Snoggles. "He's gone to get rid of any more work-he's the laziest cuss you ever see. But, look here, Mr. Grains, I want to show you the ape, now that I've got him all right. Just wait a minute, till I light the lamp." Some illumination was indeed necessary, for the twilight had       MR. SNOGGLES RECANTS.        3T3 turned into darkness with nearly pantomimic rapidity. While striking match after match which either broke or failed to ignite with exasperating regularity, the artist in stuffing continued: "I've sent around before to see you, Mr. Grains, but they said you was away. Been out of town?" "Yes," said Tommy; ,' I have been out of town; I have been in the country." "Ah, bully place the country is. Taking a holiday, I s'pose." "Yes," in a lower tone, after a pause. "I have been taking a holiday, a rest from-thinking." "It's a good thing to stop thinking once in a while," said Mr. Snoggles, with the air of one who knew whereof he spoke., ', Braces a man up first-rate, it does. Why, Mr. Grains," he exclaimed, as finding a match more docile than the others he succeeded in obtaining a light; "you look changed. Ain't anything wrong, I hope?   " "Am I changed?" asked Tommy, disregarding the question. Well, was the reflective reply, , I don't know as you're ex- actly changed, but you seem kind o' tired, sort of worn out." "I am  worn out," said Tommy briefly; adding with a sudden transition of both tone and manner, "Come, let me see your mar- vellous piece of handicraft."        , As Mr. Snoggles held the lamp on high its yellow rays fell in fantastic masses upon the sombre dark-brown shape; they ap- peared to float and flicker over it, causing it to assume a weird, uncouth look as it towered in relief against the shadowy back- ground. "Curious; that we should come from an animal like that," said Mr. Snoggles musingly, his head very much on one side Was it a  trembling of his hand that diverted the light, or was it merely a fancy of Tommy's that the misshapen features seemed to contract into a derisive grin? "Very curious," he murmured under his breath. "Very curi- ous-God help us!"  Turning abruptly away he walked to the mantel-piece and stood there with his arm upon it. Mr. Snoggles placed the lamp upon the table, and busied himself with concealing as much as possible the evidences of his day's work. The result was moved into its usual corner, whence it glowered malignantly, as if dis- gusted at its subordination.  314         LOSING TO WIN. "There," exclaimed the proprietor, wiping his forehead with a blue silk handkerchief tastefully variegated with numerous green spots. "There! I guess we'll do for the evening now. I expect another visitor before long. You've heard of her, I guess." "Who is she?" asked Tommy, rousing himself from a partial reverty to simulate a show of interest. M Mrs. Bilter." "Irs. Bilter," Grains repeated, requiring no effort now to be- come aroused. "Is she a friend of yours?" "Yes," said Mr. Snoggles modestly, conscious of the honor he enjoyed, sitting down by the table. "Funny, isn't it? But I'll tell you hown it happened. You see, when you asked me a while ago to go up there and find out what she wanted to say to-to- who was it now?" "Never mind," said Tommy's clear low voice, his eyes study- ing the ragged matting. "I remember the occasion." "Well, you see," resumed Mr. Snoggles cheerfully, his face in quite a glow between the conflicting emotions of self-importance and modesty, "I w\ent there, and put myself up for a regular reformer; talked about bustin' the banks and hangin' the bloated aristocrats just like any of 'em. Oh, I gave it to her strong, I tell you. Well, she swallowed it all and thought me a first-class speaker. Then, you know, they had a big meeting afterwards, and a big row, too; raised the deuce and turned Mrs. Bilter out; told her she was too old and all that sort o' thing. The free-lovers was too many for her. They've got the upper hand now, and 'cause she wouldn't preach their ideas-principles /thy call 'em, phew!"-and he spat upon the floor as a slight indication of his contempt-" they run her out altogether. Well, I felt kind o' sorry for her and went there again, :nd mighty glad she was to see me. Said I was a friend in neecd an' so of course a friend indeed. That's what always gits women--sympathy. I didn't talk any reform that time, but pitched into 'em like fun. Well, the long and the short of it is that we became good friends. She'd tell me about her wrongs by the hour, an' I'd sit an' listen to 'em and sympathize with her just as much as she wanted. I tell you, it was good fun to abuse the reformers an' see how she'd join in an' agree with everything I said about them." "But she did not alter her opinions, I presume," said Grains,   *     MR. SNOGGLES RECANTS.        3I5 once more relapsed into his condition of semi-abstraction and ,  once more intently studying the ragged matting. "Well," said Mr. Snoggles shrewdly, I guess she knows her mind now about as much as she ever did. You see, it's very nice to preach destruction an' that sort of thing, so long as you're head of the affair, but when people begin to destroy you, it's rather different. Leastways, that's about how it is with Mrs. Bilter. When she was leader an' had lots o' things to think about an' keep her busy, it was easy enough not to bother about her house or what her teachin's come to. But now that she's turned out, she's able to see a little clearer than'she used." His explanation of what he supposed to be the distinguished reformer's present mental position was interrupted by the tinkle of a hoarse bell, which hung in such a draft that it seemed to have taken a severe cold. "That's her now, prob'ly," said Mr. Snoggles; going to the door. He returned followed by Mrs. Bilter; not the defiant, hard- eyed Mrs. Bilter of a few short months ago, ready to do combat for her ideas on an instant's notice, but a Mrs. Bilter careworn and humbled, with her strong eye softened as though brick were softened into clay. Seeing Tommy, she glanced at Mr. Snoggles inquiringly. "This is Mr. Grains," said he; "one of the Globular writers." "I believe I have seen you before," she remarked blandly, as Tommy raised his head without otherwise changing his position. "Once," he replied briefly. The word had a curious effect upon him, for something associated with it caused him to study the ragged matting still more intently. Mrs. Bilter took off her bonnet, laid aside a thin shawl, and sat by the side of the table, opposite to where Mr. Snoggles had resumed his chair. The flickering yellow light cast strange reflections upon the huge ape in the corner; he seemed to roll his head sagaciously, to cast sly looks alternately upon the members of this little group, the two seated and the one standing by the mantel-piece, his arm resting upon it and his eyes bent downward. "Did you not come to my house, Mr. Grains, during a meeting some time ago?" asked Mrs. Bilter affably, desirous of cultivating a newspaper man.     316        LOSING TO WIN. "Yes," answered Tommy, raising his eyes quickly towards her countenance and then dropping them again. It might have been only a flicker of the lamp which made a sudden shadow seem to pass over his features. "I remember now," said Mrs. Bilter with the manner of one who having searched for a clue has at length found it. "I Yu came there to report the meeting and went out with Little Silva It is very strange, but I have never seen her since then. Do you know where she is?" Tommy again looked at her; the ape seemed to wink and grin in hideous joyousness. "She was quite a friend of yours, I believe?" he asked in a low, steady voice. "Yes,' somewhat anxiously. An intimate friend?" "Yes," more anxiously. "One of your disciDles-one of your followers?" "Yes. Where is she?" Dead. Dead and buried." "Dead!"Mrs. Bilter recoiled in astonishment not unmixed with terror. "Dead-there must be some mistake." Oh, there is no mistake. She was one of your friends-an intimate friend-a disciple. and you watched over her with such a cherishing care, guarded her with such a protecting tenderness that, but for the aid of a stranger, she would have died lonely and in poverty, suffering for even the merest necessities of life." Mrs. Bilter made a feeble gesture of dissent as her hands fell together in her lap in the manner common to women who feel thcmsellves helpless. By no assistance of yours was it that she was prevented from dying as a pauper dies; by no aid of her trusted, valued friends were her last hours made more comfortable, or her hard pillow softened. A stranger took her in, sheltered her, protected her, and gave her that charitable love for which she was starving." Mrs. Bilter's head sank forward; Mrs. Bilter's softened eyes softened yet more, and her twisting fingers seemed playing a game of cat's-cradle \with invisible thread. "Yes," continued Tommy's even voice, though his hand had by this time moved so as to conceal his eyes. You taught the emancipation of women and she became emancipated; you showed   MR. SNOGGLES RECANTS.        3I7 the newer light and by it she walked; you pointed out the goal towards which she should hasten, and hasten to it she did-to reach it and to die." The game of cat's-cradle was progressing at a furious rate, so quickly that it would have been impossible to tell if the hands were playing correctly or cheating. Perhaps it was the flickering lamp which made the objects before Mrs. Bilter's eyes waver and be seen through a mist. "Your admirable principles have conducted to shame and death a woman who was fitted for-who might have enjoyed "- his level voice quavered an instant; the path was becoming rocky -" a life of happiness and of peace. Your noble schemes for the elevation of women have resulted in the degradation and wretched ending of a once pure, good nature. "I feared what might happen," he continued musingly, " when I first learned into what company she had fallen, with whom she was associating; but I had faith in her, nor dreamed that she would so quickly prove false to herself. How could I tell that she would think herself in love; how could I tell that this thought and your teachings would so work together as to cause her ruin and death? But of the two, I hold your teachings the worse, and tell you plainly and in so many words, that you, you are responsible for the miserable death of Little Silva. Be satisfied with that; your life has not been wasted; you have fulfilled your mission." The game of cat's-cradle had stopped some moments ago, without any declaration of victory for either hand. Mrs. Bilter's eyes had roved restlessly about the room, finding a sullen relief in resting upon the grimly contorted lips of the big ape, Her feet moved backwards and forwards upon the floor like the piston rods of a stationary steam-engine. Mr. Snoggles gazed at her with an air of the deepest interest, his eyes opened as wide as his mouth, and his shoulders hunched up nearly to his twitching ears. He was about to speak, but checked himself at the sound of her voice. "God knows, Mr. Grains," said the strong-minded woman mildly, " that if any act of mine could call Little Silva back to life, if there were anything I could do- " "She is best as she is." "It may be, and yet--" "There is nothing which you can do-now. How easy it is to     318         LOSING TO WIN. be sorry. How hard to so act that sorrow shall not come." He stopped short, looked at the matting as though seeking inspira- tion, then saying "Good night" abruptly, was gone before they had time to utter a syllable. "Is it fair to blame me so?" inquired Mrs. Bilter, as the sharp click-click of Tommy's boot-heels died away upon the pavement outside. "No, it is not fair," said Mr. Snoggles energetically, an odd light shining in his face. "I thought that would be your opinion," she said earnestly; "for really I am not responsible for the errors of those who choose to adopt strange doctrines. Even though she was my friend, what right had I to interfere with her? It is not fair to hold me accountable for her mistakes, is it?" "No," said Mr. Snoggles again, more energetically, "no, it is not. Now, if she had been your child, for instance, and you had never taken the least notice of her; if you had let her tumble up through life anyhow, without caring whether she was educated or not; if you had never given her any sign of mother's love or mother's care; if you had never made home a pleasant resort ; if you had never- " "ush!" cried Mrs. Bilter, rising impetuously and walking rapidly around the room. "Hush! I have a child-a son." "Lor' now; how curious," exclaimed Mr. Snoggles in an under- tone, turning so as to bestow upon the ape a wink of intense mneaning1                      . "Yes," she continued, walking with long, manlike strides. "I have a son; a son whom I have neglected, to whom the streets have been a kinder home than that of my providing. How he has grow n up, I know not; what may be his tastes, his habits, his inclinations, I cannot tell. I know nothing about him." For the first time in her life probably this reflection came to her in its full force; for the first time in her life she realized what it was for a mother to be so totally ignorant of her son, so apart from his life as to not even know his commonest likes or dislikes. She sat as suddenly as she had risen and clasped her hands before her eyes. They felt very dry and hot. As Mr. Snoggles turned from contemplating her to share his triumph with the ape, it seemed to him that the anthropoidal fea- tures glowered somewhat disconsolately at this exhibition of pure   1/         nMR. SNOGGLES RECANTS.       319 I '   and natural feeling. The reflection occurred to him that the ape grinned only when people were in trouble, and was gloomy when their better nature assumed its sway. This idea was so over- whelming as to almost stagger him for the moment. Seeing that Mrs. Bilter had still her hands pressed to her eyes, oblivious of him and his movements, he took the lamp and placing himself in front of the ape surveyed it long and carefully. Yes. There could be no doubt about it. Just now, when Grains was speaking, the ape appeared gratified and grinning; at present, when Mrs. Bilter was experiencing the best emotions which had come to her for years, its countenance was sombre and vastly uglier that its maker's art had designed. Snoggles put down the lamp, and meandered thoughtfully around the ape. His mind was now made up. Whether his simple speech, following so closely upon Grains' more stinging words, had awakened responsive echoes in Mrs. Bilter's mind, or whether both addresses were the formulation of what she thought spontaneously, will never be known; but they affected her strongly, intensely. When she spoke it was in a voice so gentle that it astonished the listener. I can see very many mistakes I have made in my career," she said mournfully. "Why my eyes should be opened to-night of all times I cannot imagine, but that they are opened I know." She spoke slowly, more as if thinking aloud than addressing any hearer, but Mr. Snoggles chose to consider himself bound to make 'a reply. "I know what's the matter,"' he said. "' You see now for the first time what it amounts to when your doctrines are practised. Now, I'll tell you what I'll do, Mrs. Bilter. You an' me's pretty good friends, so suppose we make a bargain. If you'll give up your women's-rights ideas, I'll give up believing in the anthrop- in the ape "---correcting himself quickly to hide the stumble- "and go back to plain old Adam and Eve. Will you do it? There must be something bad about this fellow, 'cause when things is all wrong he kind o' smiles, and when things is all right he looks kind o' glum and sour like. Say, is it a bargain?" "Yes," said Mrs. Bilter, and the odd compact was concluded; she to do what she had been considering and he to' allay what he deemed the prickings of an uneasy conscience.     CHAPTER XXXV. "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER OF GLASS. OM\IIY GRAINS had spoken only the truth in saying that l ittle Silva had been buried without the knowledge of any of her strong-minded friends; though, had they known of her dleath, none but the professed free-lovers would have attended her funeral. The others, save Mrs. Bilter, would probably have kept carefully aloof, illogically blaming her deductions from their prem- ises. (One of her sincerest mourners was the weary-eyed baby, which oI the following day proved its sorrow by quietly closing its cvUS 1 and never opening them again. Buried in one grave, given a simple funeral, for which Grains insisted upon paying, Little Silva and her child passed away from sight, sinking to the repose for which she had so longed. Whlo were her parents?  Had she any relatives? None knew. Frank always thought that when Tommy so suddenly disappeared from the city, he went to them and told the short, sad story of the brilliant writer's career; but she could learn n',thinig from him. He apparently had made a vow of silence upon the subject, and, after his return, staid only long enoughl for the funeral and then again vanished, reappearing to answer Mr. Snoggles' invitation. Leaving the bird-stuffer's shop, Tommy walked slowly up Broadway, revolving many things. To those of a reflective mind the sight of numbers of people-each constituent particle busy with his own concerns, and all animated by the bustling sense of importance a crowd calls forth-has in it a large share of pro- found melancholy. The stir, the confusion of individualities is perplexing; the appearance of so many, each intent upon some- thing personal, if not selfish, gives rise to thoughts quite the reverse of agreeable. But Tommy, although of a temperament which would have come under Burton's definition of the melan-   "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER -OF GLASS. 321 cholic, was no mourner over the frailties of human nature, con- sidering them rather with the kindly eye of one who can appreciate and make allowances. It was therefore in no gloomy state of mind that he reached Frank's studio, and, on entering, was ready to return warmly the warm greetings he received from the studio's proprietor and Frederick, who happened to be there by acci- dent, he said. Tommy looked at the accident, and thought it a very pretty one indeed. He had not seen Lily for several weeks, and then had looked upon her only casually, but as he now saw her it seemed to him that she was prettier than before; that her cheeks had acquired a softer, richer color; that a sweeter and deeper light shone from her clear eyes; she appeared not older but matured. When her eyes glanced upon Frederick or when his rested upon her, Tommy imagined that he could read the secret of this change-a very 'open secret which all might see who chose, for Lily gave no thought to her emotion, so new and yet so familiar; while Frederick, manlike, had not the slightest ob- jection that the whole world should know his sentiments. Tommy was given the place of honor upon the lounge-which was a perfect miracle of a lounge, inasmuch as though extremely old it had no daggers for the benefit of unwary backs-and a cigar. Thus provided for, he was invited to give an account of himself and explain where he had been lately. He took a few whiffs at the cigar before answering. "I have been in the Kaatskill Mountains," he said at length, sententiously; I playing bowls with Rip Van Winkle's friends, and associating with ghosts." They understood his humor and changed' the subject, Fred- erick telling the literary news of the'day, for Tommy, having returned that afternoon only, was on his way up town when meet- ing Mr. Snoggles' emissary at the Globular office. "So Bilter is at Stemwell as correspondent," he said. "I am glad that he obtained the opportunity. How does he avail himself of it?" "Very creditably," said Frederick. "His first two or three letters were crude in style; though, as he managed to get hold of some good bits of news, that had to be endured. But he has improved rapidly in his writing, and as his position enables him to get excellent information, he makes quite entertaining screeds." "*     ,3 LOSING TO WIN. Do you still keep your eye on the brick-yard as Mr. Saxton advised?" asked Frank. "Certainly. I expect a great row there any day; when it comes I am to do the fancy work-description and that sort of thing, you know-while Bilter looks out for the facts. By the way," he continued, there's something very strange about that business, for I had a private letter from Bilter the other day, in which he mentioned some curious circumstances. He says that only a small minority of the laborers really wish a strike, and even these have vague, unsatisfactory reasons for their action. The Six- lIour Law is a humbug, of course; the demand for it conceals something that we cannot yet see. Bilter suspects, he tells me, that the strike, if it take place, will occur in the interest of the owner." "Excuse me, please," said Lily; "is it not growing rather dark? It was not only growing rather dark, but had become so really, and Frank arose to light the gas. As she did so, Tommy remarked' "Now, Frank, I have two seats for Niblo's to-night if you would like to go."  Of course I should like to go," she exclaimed; "but-" Do not let that disturb you," said Frederick; " if Miss Vevere does not object to my company I will stay here, for I am off duty to-night." Whether Miss Vevere objected or not might be judged from the smile which her soft eyes suggested as they looked at the 5peaker. "' It was not you, young man, whom I was thinking of," said Frank ; " still, I will go." When they reached the theatre, she asked Tommy where wore his tickets. "I have no tickets," he said calmly. Didn't you tell me that you had two seats?" "Yes, and didn't you see that I wanted to give those young people a show to be alone? Let them have a fair chance to: bill and coo as much as they please." "W Well, now that we are here, I will go in," said Frank, agree. ing with him'; " and trust sincerely that you may be forgiven for the stories you tell." Formality cannot be very strictly observed amongst those   "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER OF GLASS. 323 whose income is limited, and so, though it was highly improper for Frederick and Lily to be left alone together, there was no friendly maiden aunt or elder sister to join them and make herself sociable. Perhaps she was not missed very much, and escaped sundry blessings she would have received if present, and which, if fulfilled, would have made her future existence decidedly uncom- fortable. It did not occur to Frank to hesitate about going out and giving the young people what Tommy called a "show," for Lily had by, this time become quite well domesticated with the artist. It was fully a month since she had left her uncle's house, and at her age a month counts for much, particularly when the life has been secluded and the character is impres- sionable. The conversation with Mr. Wharton, his wild, strange demeanor as he recited the threats of Allington and joined to them his entreaties, were still fresh in her mind. That event- ful scene in the library followed by her narrow escape from the unknown danger, and the sudden appearance of Little Silva to Allington's astonished gaze, were incidents well adapted to affect her strongly. Frequently they recurred to her, though not now bringing with them the same shudder of disgust as before. It was a dreadful past, she thought, but then, after all, it was past, and that should be the end of it. Lily had not decided whether or not she was definitely done with her former life. Her uncle had left her entirely alone, acting in this upon Allington's advice. But that gentleman's accompanying prediction had not yet com- menced verifying itself. Lily had shown no desire to return to her uncle, and if she were tired of her present quarters, managed to conceal that feeling with extraordinary facility; concealed it so well that no one could have suspected it. Perhaps when Allington made that prediction he did not, take into account the fact, that not only are some natures easily reconciled to any state of living, but that when other natures are present the reconciliation is effected with remarkable ease. Lily was satisfied with little; a very moderate supply contented her, and she asked for nothing more provided the surroundings were agreeable. And in this case they were. She liked the self-reliance of Frank, her steady kindness to each and all, and her never-failing good nature. It was a great pleasure to talk to one whose views of life were so broad and liberal, so keen and yet uninfluenced by any per- sonal reflections or personal experiences. Something in this self- '     324         LOSING TO WIN. 324 reliant way of progressing through the world caught Lily's fancy. The life pleased her, and as she had the opportunity she indulged : her Hwhim of living it. Little perception was required to see that  her supply of money, small as it was, came very acceptably. She had concocted the ingenious scheme of making Frank give her drawing lessons, for which she paid liberally, though no more than the instruction was worth. The limited household went on very agreeably, the more so that its novelty had not yet worn off for Lily. She liked the change from the monotonous conventionality of her uncle's house, and had become so habituated to it as not to find it inconvenient. Mioreover, there was another reason why she had not yet tired of the artist's studio life-a reason which she did not acknowledge, scarcely even knew of, and which she would have disclaimed if told Ii of it. But Lily was more likely to be moved by dim emotions than to wear)- herself by constant m-lental study of what she thought and felt. At present she only knew that life was very agreeable despite the estrangement between herself and her uncle, and  that she was very glad to see Mr. Bayner whenever he called. That was all.                   .    She had been glad to see him this evening, and was not in the least sorry that Grains took Frank off to the theatre, but on the contrary thought somewhat indefinitely that he was a good- natured man who liked to give pleasure when he could. Frede- rick shared ill this opinion, though he did not express it, as he sat on the lounge near Lily watching her slender fingers crumple to(rether a band of diaphanous material which was undergoing the process of bccoming a ruffle. During the past few weeks-so few and yet to Frederick so crowded with events-the two young people had become more than iwell acquainted, almost intimate. Nearly all conversation in the slightest degree interesting is largely personal, and so it was not long( before Frederick confided to her many of his ambitions and dearest wishes. On the topic of self, he must be stupid indeed who cannot be eloquent and entertaining, since the study of human nature is alone perennially fresh. Lily did not reason much about it. She thought Frederick's conversation interesting because-well, because it was he who spoke. Ever since the night when he took that imaginative sail in a fanciful boat, Frederick had used no disguise to himself when   "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER OF GLASS. 325 thinking of his feelings. " Yes, I do love her," he would say in the dialogue most of us are in the habit of mentally holding. "I do love her, and I am proud of it. I am proud that I am still good enough to bow down before so much sweetness and purity. But ah! how stained and muddy I seem before her heavenly whiteness." Then would come remembrance, thoughts of almost despair, until he would doubt if he could ever win the love of one so spotless as she. But he humbly avowed his faults to himself in plain language, repented of them sincerely, earnestly strove to lead a better life-and did so. Lily was one of those rare women who benefit every man with whom they come in contact by mak- ing him think how much goodness is still upon the earth, by making him 'feel how unworthy he is to approach such a pure priesence. Did ever the man live who could:show every scene of his life to his mother or his wife? Did ever the man live who would not hide from their clear eyes much, very much of what he had done and seen? Poor Frederick was not different in this from the rest of us. He had lived as do most young men, neither bet- ter nor worse, never dreaming of the torturing remorse he was laying up for the -future. Even should he and Lily bear to each other the closest relation possible, she could never know these thoughts save in the vaguest manner. He could not hint to her of what he was thinking, nor tell why he so often became ab- stracted and melancholy, or why, when away from'her, musing of her sweet white innocence, a mist came to his eyes and a sob rose up in his throat. No. It was not the least bitter part of his punishment for reckless waste of time, that it must be borne in uncomplaining silence. But hitherto he had said nothing to Lily of love, though quite certain that she could not but guess his feelings. He had deter- mined that he would speak of it upon the first opportunity, and here was a superb one offered by Grains as if he were a kindly magician. But opportunity is a fickle goddess, and even though she may at length appear, her countenance may not wear just the expression desired at the -moment. Those who are in the habit of awaiting favorable occasions for doing or saying something for which they ardently desire the opportunity, are subject to qualms and tremors which would furnish fine material for scoffing to the mental egotists who are undisturbed by any considerations of time or place. To employ a ready figure, some will anxiously     326         LOSING TO WIN. await a propitious day for their voyage, but the very anxiety with %which they wish for success renders them easily discouraged. A slight cloud, even if only supposititious, will make them turn back; an imaginary lowering will cause a sudden postponement. So rare indeed is the conjunction of everything perfect-as in astrol- og- there is invariably some star in apposition exerting a bale- ful influience-that oftentimes, tired with delay, the waiting one rushes upon his fate impetuously at the very moment of all others when he should show no sign. Frederick had seen and conversed with Lily but a few times before he felt strongly impelled to tell her what thoughts were passing through his mind; to tell that he loved her, had literally loved front the moment of first seeing her. He smiled some- times, thinking how odd it was: that he should accidentally see a woman whose mere look should influence his whole life. Until. personal experience proved the contrary, he had labored under the 'i delusion that there could be no such thing as love at first sight; that such love was a retrospective creation of the imagination, as a man f always thinks of himself "grown up " and never as a baby. Blut Lily lhad taught him differently. Had he never seen her again, the love which he so suddenly conceived might have re- mained slumbering-he feeling its influence though scarcely con- scious of its existence-until it subsided into a tender recollection. N Whether it would have prevented him from ever asking any other woman to be his wife, may be doubted, since this kind of recollec- tion, while affecting life in a general manner, does not positively i deflect it front the ordinary current. It is probable that, as years passed by and he felt the intense loneliness, the weary monotony ,which comnies of self-concentration, he would have married as do many others; merely because he must have some one with whom to share his thoughts, some one who would furnish him with continual companionship and distraction. But Frederick smiled at reflections like these, dismissing them so soon as they occurlred. He -was firmly convinced that he loved Lily strongly and profoundly ; and with pardonable egotism--the egotism common to all young lovers-was equally certain that he loved as no one else had ever loved. Others might have imagined that they felt as he did-so much'he was willing to concede-but no one had ever really experienced the same intensity of emotion, never really been so swayed as was he.   "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER OF GLASS. 327 Lily was speaking of some spectacle she and Frank had wit- nessed the previous Saturday, and concluded her account with a laugh, saying, "So, after all their troubles, the Prince married the Princess as he invariably does, no matter how much the wicked s )rcerers may combine to prevent that happy result." "That is the case," said Frederick, in the pieces we see; but how about those which we do not see? No spectacles ever repre- sent the careers of the Prince and the Princess who are not mar- ried at the end-whom the machinations of the sorcerers do suc- ceed in separating, and who, after meeting, live their lives there- after apart. Such stories would not be sufficiently pleasing for the theatre-it is bad enough that they happen in real life without bringing them into imagination's peculiar domain. I fancy that, even if written, a play like that would not be successful for much the same reason that we never have snow scenes in fairy pieces-- there would be a painful sense of incongruity, a want of har- mony." "Yes," said Lily, readily taking his idea. The Prince is so brave and handsome, he overcomes all difficulties so valiantly, never yielding to any discouragement, that it would be too bad did he not succeed." "And the Princess is so beautiful and lovely that he would de- serve the utmost evil the sorcerers could inflict upon him did he for a moment relax his chase, for a moment loosen his hope. Yet 'it is not always so. Do you remember the story of little Kay? That would make a capital spectacle and, besides, have the advan- tage of being truer to life than most of those which are pre- sented." "What is it?" she asked. A flash seemed to dart before Frederick's eyes, he thought his head swimming for an instant. The sensation passed as swiftly as it came, when he answered: "One of Hans Andersen's most charming stories. I will tell you it, or rather what I can remember. Once upon a time there lived a very wicked magician who made a mirror possessed of a curious property: whoever looked into it saw himself distorted and made ugly; all beauty that it reflected seemed mean and evil, and every good deed a selfish act. One day the magician's students took the mirror and flew high above the earth, so that they might obtain a great reflection. But it made them laugh so much that     328   "OSING TO WIN.   they finally let the glass drop. The mirror fell to the ground and was shattered into a million fragments which flew about every- where, getting into people's eyes and causing them to see all things the reverse of what they were, good appearing bad and bad appearing good. A splinter flew into the eye of a little boy who was looking out at the snow-storm. No sooner had it set- tled there than some flowers in a pot near by, which he had just thought very pretty, seemed nothing but withered weeds. He ran off to get his sled, and wrapping up went into the street to enjoy himself. The weather was bitterly cold and straggling flakes of snow crept under his coat, but neither the weather nor the snow affected him." "I suppose the splinter of glass prevented him from feeling them," said Lily, as Frederick stopped to puff at his dying cigar. "Exactly. It had changed his whole nature, so that what was harsh and blustering became not altogether uncongenial. Well, he was amusing himself hy 'hitching on,' when he saw coming near a large, splendid sleigh, drawn by four white horses and full of white bearskins. In the midst of them was sitting a lady dressed in ermine, who smiled and looked so kind that he did not hesitate to fasten his sled to one of the runners. But when he had clone this, the large sleigh, instead of going around the park as before, went out into the country as fast as the horses could gallop. Now and then little Kay would become frightened at going so far away, but the white lady would turn around and smile so kindly that he entirely forgot everything else. Finally, the white lady took him inrto the sleigh alongside herself, and there, although his heart did feel like a lump of ice, he was contented with his position and would not have changed it." "Poor fellow," said Lily softly. Frederick's eyes glistened. "Yes, poor fellow indeed. In the mean time, one of his playmates, a little girl, had become alarmed at his absence. As day after day passed by and he was still miss- ing, she determined to go in search of him. But the way was very long and the road very hard. At last, after weeks of weary travelling, she reached the North Pole, the home of the Snow Queen, her dress in rags and her feet bleeding. Before her was the Snow Queen's palace, an immense structure of ice, glittering like diamonds in the chilly sunlight. The cold made her numb, the palace frightened her, but the thought of her errand gave her   *   "TTLE KAY AND THE SPLINTER OF GLASS.      329 courage and she walked in. As she entered the palace she started back afraid at what she saw. The air was full of north- ern lights, flickering and dancing and all of most brilliant color. They quite dazzled her until she perceived how thin and unreal they were, when she went on undismayed. Then she came to where were a number of odd-looking animals, mopping and mowing and mak- ing great pretence of noise. So, going on and on, faint and nearly exhausted, she reached a great room where the little boy sat all alone. She called him by name and took his hand, but he only looked at her in a vacant way and seemed not to understand what she was saying. She began to cry at this, and cried so hard that her tears washed the splinter of glass from his eye. 'How cold it is!' he said and jumped up shivering. Then she knew that he was restored to his right mind and no longer saw things as they were not. They went home together, away from the realm of the Snow Queen, and so ends the story." His cigar had gone out and he flung it from him impatiently. Lily had listened with interest, her eyes turned full upon him. "And so ends the story," he repeated, rising and taking a few quick steps around the room. "No-the story does not end there," and he abruptly sat down on the lounge by her side. "Lily, you have come to me as did she to little Kay, restoring my eyesight and at the same time filling my heart with love for you. For I do love you, deeply, devoutly, have loved you sincethe first time I saw you at the brick-yard," and so he continued, saying the words we have all said, and uttering the hopes we have all expressed. Tommy and Frank returning from the theatre found the couple they had left seated some distance apart and discussing the import- ant question of who wrote Mother Goose.    CHAPTER XXXVI. BACK AT STEMWELL.               \/rR. WHARTON had decided that he would return to the country and stay there at least until the holidays, perhaps for the whole winter. His reason for this extraordinary conduct-  extraordinar! in any New-Yorker who had moved to the city for the season-\vas quite a simple one: he could live at Stemwell much cheaper than elsewhere. But this was a reason which he could not well make public or there might be some awkward sur- mises how he had impaired his property, being, as every one knew, retired from business; so he merely told his daughters that his  health required a change of air, and with that he bade them make their preparations for the removal. His looks sustained the announcement. Mental trouble affects different people as waves do different parts of a coast; at one place they will harmlessly break over a mass of granite, while at another each dash will crumble away large portions and reveal deep seams. On 'Ir. \Nharton's countenance his worry had worn long and fre- quent creases which ran (down the side of his nose so as to give it an appearance of greater length. Around his eyes was a perfect maze of fine intersecting lines mutually crossing in every direction; starting firmly from the corners, they ran over the temples and there brought up irresolutely in a no-thoroughfare of network. Arn air of dejection had settled upon him; he was like one living in constant expectation of hearing bad news. His funny little stomach had lost much of its rotundity, looking not unlike a pricked balloon from which the gas has escaped. He had good cause to look as though dreading to hear bad news. Ever since the flight of Lily, his affairs had grown steadily worse. Little by little the treacherous quicksand of Wall Street had absorbed him, at the same time absorbing his money, until at present it Awas necessary for him to live with the utmost circumspection that   BACK AT STEMWELL.         331 he might use in his speculations all thus saved. In the phrase- ology of down-town, he was "carrying" a quantity of stock. Could he pay the large daily interest required to mainoin his ownership, the stock might take a sudden rise. In that case not alone would he be saved but he would clear a handsome fortune. The other contingency-the possibility of the stock going down and so requiring the deposit of further margin-he durst not con- template. Wtilfully, he looked only upon one side of the matter. Drawn on gradually, he had embarked first his spare money, then the proceeds of various mortgages, then the property which he held as guardian for Lily, and now all which he possessed in the world was upon the green cloth, awaiting the dictum of chance to decide whether he should be wealthy or a ruined, dishonored speculator. No wonder that creases came in his face and that he com- menced to find his vests uncomfortably loose. The suspense told upon him dreadfully. At times he wished matters decided, even though against him. It would be better to know the worst, to suffer the worst, than much longer to endure this tear and fret of waiting. What particularly annoyed him was that he could do nothing, but was condemned to forced inactivity. The stock in which he had most heavily invested was unaccountably sluggish. For days it scarcely moved ; for a week it had not vibrated' a quar- ter per cent. "This can't last," said Mr. Graynan, when he visited that emi- nent financier to inquire what was the look-out, "I tell you, things are bound to change pretty soon. You see, the boys have hardly got their hands in yet for the fall. But you just wait awhile and there'll be lively times, and stocks 'll be flying up and down like shuttlecocks. You see, now. We'll bustle 'em." Many were the vows which Mr. Wharton made himself that he would never more touch speculation of any kind could he but once get free of his stock and his brick-yard without being too severely burned. About this latter investment he felt- the more distrustful as he thought it over. Notwithstanding his business habits of mind, he could not keep himself from occasionally dwelling upon what Mr. Graynan would have considered a purely sentimental aspect of the subject and' one with which cool-headed people could have nothing to do. This consisted of the suffering which would be brought upon the brick-yard laborers and their families when the strike were fairly under way. Mingled with this were     I 332         LOSING TO WIN. some personal reflections, when Mr. Wharton remembered the  ! angry looks and scarcely suppressed threatening words which he i had both seen and heard before leaving Stemwell. On these accounts he would gladly have remained away from  i that interesting portion of Dutchess County, if necessity had  ; allowed. But unfortunately it costs much more to live in the city . than in the country. Not alone is there a difference in the mere  price of food-a difference which of itself counts for but little-but there is the large amount running away for incidentals which in the country no occasion offers for spending, and for which the opportunity could not be found even if desired. Living is simple, and the thousand and one city necessities are seen to be superflui- ties of the most superfluous kind. The girls heard that their expected winter festivities must be postpoied in a manner according to their temperaments. Eliza  i Illade no sign that it was in any way disagreeable and hardly ex- pressed more than a very moderate degree of curiosity upon the subject. But inwardly she thought it a very grievous burden to be laid upon her shoulders. With the egotism appertaining to her eccentric ideas, she considered the passing a winter in the country to be a punishment visited upon her for something she had done or left undclone. It did not occur to her that her father's householld would hardly be disorganized and her sister treated the same wa\y as herself on account of one individual act; introspec- tion is the parent of anything rather than modest reflections or thought tending to any conclusion but that the whole scheme of the universe is altered to reward or chastise a single person. She took counsel of Father Joles, but he could only advise her to sub- mit herself uncomplainingly to the yoke, so she went home and tried to console herself by reading a poem called "Pass Under the Rod." She needed consolation, for the prospect of leaving New York was far from pleasing. She was as fond of society and amusement as a healthily constituted girl should be. She was unconsciously a h)ypocrite, because she thought that there is some- thing wrong about pleasure enjoyed for its own sake, but her better nature came to the surface so often and with such force that for the tilne being it drove all repression from her mind. Her ritual- ism did not pre'vent her from going to a party; it merely told her while at that party to discuss religion upon every possible oppor- tunity and to frequently astonish the unwary youth who invited her   BACK AT STEMWELL.          333 for the German by asking solemnly if he did not think that the real apostolical succession was in the Anglican Church. Harriet was more outspoken. She loudly declared it both a sin and a shame to take them away just as they were beginning to have a good time. The road going past the Terrace in the Cen- tral Park was becoming more crowded each day and the list of well-known faces growing longer. She was anticipating several large balls which were to be given before Christmas, and had already begun planning dresses to wear at them. The shops were just putting on exhibition the latest fall and winter fashions; there were all the new styles of jewelry to be examined; the newest bonnets to be looked at and criticised-in a word, there was a per- fect multitude of the most absorbing objects needing attention. It would be cruel to leave these, and Harriet had no hesitation in so stating publicly. Besides, there was Mr. Rolm to be thought of; she gravely added that she was thinking of giving him the right to control her movements, and appeared quite surprised when Eliza told her that as she herself never cared what Mr. Rolm's feelings might be upon any subject, it was hardly to be expected that others would observe them very closely. But no matter what the girls might think or say; their father had informed them that in the last week of October they would return to Stemwell, and they judged from his manner that to argue the point would be a waste of time. They were both much dis- tressed by the change in him, and although they were now becom- ing somewhat accustomed to it, they still vainly guessed at its cause. They knew that he had given up all business and it never entered their heads to think of him as dabbling in stocks. As they had never in their lives felt the want of money, it did not occur to them that their father might be in any financial trouble, and were therefore totally at a loss to account for his haggard looks and absent-minded way of speaking to them. It was so different from his old cheeryv manner that it made them feel sor- rowful at times, thinking it a sign of old age. The gap left by Lily's departure had nearly closed. In obe- dience to Mr. Wharton, the girls did not mention it publicly. Lily was so little known to their circle of friends, that only a few noticed her disappearance, and they were given to understand that she was on a visit to some relatives. Between themselves, Har- riet and Eliza frequently talked over Lily's strangely sudden flight;     334         LOSING TO WIN. Harriet bravely sustaining the cause of the absent one, and Eliza, brought to acknowledge that there was nothing absolutely wrong about it, shaking her head and saying that it was very suspicious. This word was usually the signal for a quarrel, in which the younger sister would come off victor, her volubility proving a w-eapon against which Eliza could not contend. Some days before their departure, Mr. Graynan in the evening told his wife to dress herself and accompany him to Mr. Whar- ton's. That lady did as she was bid, being as submissive to her small husband as any elephant is to its keeper. It is not infrequent to witness a triumph of mind over matter in the spectacle of big wornen extremely docile to little men, and Mrs. Graynan was an admirable illustration of the wives who submit themselves. Her husband rarely interfered with her conversation, nor exacted from her any heavier service than that of occupying the attention of the women while he could talk business to the men uninterrupted. \W'hen they reached Mr. Wharton's it was in accordance with his custom that Mrs. Graynan was left with the young ladies  : while the tawo gentlemen went into the library, ostensibly to smoke a cigar. "And so, my dears, you are going into the country for the winter?" said )Mrs. Graynan, smiling blandly and seating herself voluminously upon the largest chair. "Yes," replied Eliza, with a half-suppressed sigh. "Papa says that iwe are to stay there some time." "I'm sure I envy you. Of all things the country is what I most y)earn for, and then that dear little church with the enormous, debt on it. It's beautiful. What a nice time we had at the har- vest home, didn't we? But I'm so sorry that that stupid man was so foolish as to go and see a ghost. Or was it whiskey? \'What do you think, now?"She stopped her rapid fire of blank cartridges a moment to appeal to Harriet. "Really," she said laughing, "I have no idea. I should think, though, that the ghost existed only in his brain." "Just my opinlion exactly. How lovely you do talk to be sure. You always say just what's in my head, only somehow I can't get it out. Still, the harvest home was very fine. We must have another next. year and get all the peasantry of the neighborhood there. Do you know, my dear," this to Eliza, "that I am going to have a real estate up in the country, just like those that are in   BACK AT STEMWELL.          335 England, with tenantry of my own and a lot of old women to wear red cloaks and curtsey. And oh! I must tell you. Mr. Graynan is going to join the church. He has taken the most expensive pew there is at St. Barabbas-no, that isn't it-- What church is it where the newspapers are all the time laughing at them?" "St. Barnabas, perhaps," said Eliza dryly, while Harriet was endeavoring to choke in her handkerchief without noise. "Yes, that's it, thank you. I quite yearn to go there regu- larly. It's so nice to see the little boys in a procession, just as they do in that opera, the Prophet, you know. Oh, 1 forgot to tell you. Who do you suppose come to see me the other day? Somebody from Stemwell." Both the girls at once thought of Allington, and so of course they declared that they had not the faintest idea. "Well, I'm sure you'll never guess, so I'll tell you. It was a woman with a funny name-Nit or something like that. She said that she used to be housekeeper at Mr. Denton's-that sulky old gentleman who lives all alone. She said that she belonged to the woman's-rights people, and wanted to know if I wouldn't subscribe to help 'em along." "And did you?" asked Harriet interested. "Did I?" repeated Mrs. Graynan with as much scorn as she could contrive to throw into her voice. "Did I? I'll tell you. Actually, my dears, I forgot that I was a lady and told-la' now, how can I repeat it?--I told her that I'd-I'd see them all further first. I did now, really. That was just what I said, and the moment I'd said it I felt-oh! so ashamed of myself." Harriet could restrain herself no longer, but exploded in a ringing peal of laughter. Eliza smiled; and Mrs. Graynan, after looking puzzled for an instant, good-humoredly joined in the mer- riment, not in the least understanding what it was about. "Yes, I did really say that. I declare, I don't know when I have talked that way since me and Homer was rich. But you ought to have heard this woman. She said the most awful things! That they were all for enfranchisement of the sub--subjugated sex--I think that was what she called them, but Lor', you know I ain't accustomed to big words. Then she went on to tell me a long rigmarole about a fight they had had, arid that her side had won and that the leader of the other side said she wouldn't have any-     336         LOSING TO WIN. thing more to do with women's rights and had gone to live in some little village and-oh, I couldn't begin to tell all she said. I And she talked right straight on, my dear, and wouldn't let me say ! a word until at last I rung the bell and when John come into the parlor I said ' I must go now, but you can stay here and talk as X long as you please and when you are through the man will show j you out' and then I just left."                 A The Yearner kept up her strenuous chatter in the honest en- deavor to render herself agreeable, while her husband and Mr. NWNharton were smoking their cigars in the library. 5Itr. NWtarton's cigar seemed to inspire him with emotions the - reverse of pleasant, for during his smoking, he frowned persistently j and chewed the end as though engaged in some strange kind of  . ruiination. It was nothing in Mr. Graynan's conversation which was displeasing, for that gentleman did not utter a single word, I )but was figuring energetically upon a scrap of paper with the stump of a pencil. His cigar was screwed around so as to form a j very obtuse angle with the line of his mouth, the smoke coming g through his thin lips at short, regular intervals like the puffs of a loconlotive getting under way. For about half an hour Mr. Wharton sat watching now the floor and now his guest until, at the expiration of that time, the latter said, looking up from the scrap of paper: "Well, \Vharton, you've told me just how you stand, and as near as I can figure it out, if eNverything goes right you'll be about two hundred thousand better off than you were in the summer." Mr. WNhharton's appearance changed as suddenly as if he were a jumping-jack and the string had been pulled. He sat up erect, his face flushed, his eyes became very bright, and he threw away his cigar. " 'hat's that?" Mr. Graynan repeated his remark. ,' Two hundred thousand dollars," said Mr. Wharton slowly. "Why, I expected no more than the half of that." ' \N'ell, you see what it is to be in with me," said the eminent financier in a tone of conscious pride. "t But if everything does not go right?" suggested Mr. Whar- ton timnidly. , Then I suppose you're busted," Mr. Graynan replied calmly, as if " busted " were one of man's normal states. "That 'ud be   BACK AT STEMWELL.          337 rather awkward -for you as you haven't got any wife. You never thought o(f settling any money on your daughters, did you?" No." "x I supposed so. That would have been better than nothing, though you can't be as sure of them as you can of a wife. Now, there's no use in a man going into speculation unless he's got a wife. You see, he must salt down something, put it away, you know, so in case he gets busted, he can take a fresh start. Why, if my wife was to die to-morrow, I'd marry again just as soon as I went back to business. Couldn't afford the risk of keeping all my capital where creditors could get at it. But never mind about that now-I've got something else to talk of-that brick-yard, you know." "^What is the news? You have the management in -your hands and I can do nothing but await 'results. You know that they are working double tides there." "Yes, I know all about it. But there's something wrong, and it's just this. There's a chap writing letters to the Globular here, and if he ain't stopped soon may show up our little game. He seems to be on the track of it. He talks a good deal about the labor- ers; not the blatherskite stuff that I want printed, but sensible, level- headed talk that won't do at all. Now, he must be stopped. The letters are signed ' P. B.,' and in one of them he spoke of himself as a workman. You'll look after him, won't you?" "Certainly-if I can. I think I know of a way to stop the letters. When will the strike take place?" "In a week or two. Now, let's have some of that brandy you gave me the last time I was here." "' I don't like the prospect of being in the country near the brick- yard while the strike is going on," said Mr., Wharton, so far com- plying with his guest's request as to ring the bell for glasses and cold water. "The rrfen are sometimes dangerous." "Pshaw! You're not afraid?" "N-no, hardly afraid, but I might be in a safer place I should think." "You needn't be the least bit alarmed. I'll speak to two or three men particularly and see that you are not even insulted- though there's nothing like that to make public sympathy." Perhaps if Mr. Wharton had known before his preparations were so well advanced that the strike was on the eve of breaking 15     33 8        LOSING TO W IN. out, he mirht have postponed his departure; but now he could not conveniently delay. Perhaps also Mr. Graynan might have induced him to be at Stemwell when the stnrike commenced, what- ever the time, for, in his opinion, it was an important point in all such operations as this to have a proprietor upon the spot to rea- son with the excited laborers. To be sure, it had once or twice happened in Pennsylvania, when Mr. Graynan was engineering a strike, that the proprietor on the spot remained there with a bullet- hole through hiln; but as this proprietor was never Mr. Homer Graynan, that emiinent financier was not in the least perturbed. Accordingly on the appointed day, Mr. Wharton and the girls took the afternoon train and had tea in their country house. In the evening, Allington, informed by letter of their coming, strolledl over to see the young ladies and their father. He had not met the latter since their unsuccessful quest of Lily. He awas speedily in receipt of the girls' grief upon the subject of leaving the city just at this time. "Very true," he said, "but you surely cannot expect me to sympathize with your disappointment, since here is the winter of my discontent brightened by two suns at once." "And which may be the more brilliant?" asked Harriet pertly. "I am not the one who can answer that question. But how is your cousin-Iliss Vevere? She did not come with you?" "No. W\hen wNe heard from her she was very well indeed, thank you," Harriet answered with a self-possession which would have done credit to a matron of twice her years. "How is your play getting on?" "Finely. I have finished the first four acts and am at work uIpon the fifth. A month more will take it off my hands, and heartily glati shall I feel to be finally rid of it." "tI sh1ould think that it would be like parting with an old frii-nt, " "No, indeed; more like Pilgrim getting rid of his burden. Ann sustaineld work like that, requiring long-continued tension of the b)rain, at length b)ecomes very wearisome. On some days I almost hate to resume work upon it. If I neglect it for three con- sccutirve d(ays, I must occupy as many more in getting my thoughts back into the accustoIned channel and raising them to the same level. Often I vituperate the hour in which I commenced it." "Then why n3t stop?" asked Eliza,   BACK AT STEMWELL.          339 "Ah, Miss Wharton, it is very evident that you never tried intellectual work," he replied with perfect politeness, yet return- ing her shot to the keen delight of Harriet. '"An idea takes pos- session of one and will find expression. There is no restraining it. It fairly makes life unpleasant until written down and so for- gotten, since whatever is done is over and finished with. The mute, inglorious Milton' is a humbug. If he be a Milton he cannot stay mute, and ifhe speak he will no longer be inglorious. But it is not alone the Miltons who are driven to put their thoughts into words. Every one who feels the afflatus in even the slightest degree, be it ever so humble, must needs have recourse to paper and pencil for cure. He is in fact rent by a devil which will not be confined." "Now, Mr. Allington, if you 'are ready, we will take that walk," said Mr. Wharton's voice at his elbow, interrupting the monologue. Nothing had been said of a walk, but Allington at once took the hint, his fluent mind turning from the subject they had been discussing as the eye turns from light to shade. They went down the path towards the gate, and so out into the open country, along the public road. Allington was the first to speak. ' I presume you have heard nothing from your niece, or 1 should have been informed of it." "I have heard not a single word." "And yet it is some time since she left your house." "Nearly five weeks." "She must be pretty well tired of that vagabond life-espe- cially if her money is running short. Suppose you write her to- morrow and suggest that she return." "I have thought of doing so before this, but- " "But- " he laughed shortly, " she might be afraid that a cer- tain disagreeable subject would be resumed, eh? Well, you can promise that not a word of it shall be said to her until the matter is resumed at her own desire, and that meanwhile you are safe." Mr. Wharton did not pause to search if there were any mean- ing hidden behind these words, and if so what that meaning might be, but seizing Allington's hand, shook it warmly. ' "I thank you; I thank you very much. It has been hard for me to have her away, not knowing to- what she might be exposed,     340         LOSING TO WIN. what she might be suffering even. I will write by the first mail to-morrow, telling her to come here at once-" He broke off short. "What is it?" asked Allington, his usually sluggish curiosity aroused. "I do not know if I ought to bring her here, for I have been thinking of sending away my daughters." "Sending them asway!" and Allington stared at him in amaze- ment. "Why, you are but just arrived." "Yes. I came because I had made my plans to do so and coulld not alter them, but I may send the girls off on a visit."  "Why, in Heaven's name?" "Because it may be dangerous for them to stay here." "I do not understand you." "The explanation is this," and Mr. Wharton related his con- nection with the brick-yard and the impending strike. "But awhat dlo you fear?" "W \ell," replied Mr. Wharton slowly, "there have been such things you know as attacks on houses and burning them." Allington pondered for a moment. Then a strange gleam darted, as it were, through his eyes, and his eyebrows were ele- vated. Turning to his companion he said : "I seriously believe that there is no reason whatever to be afraid. Sending away your family would be the worst thing you could do, for undoubtedly the report would be immediately circu- lated that you were afraid to have them stay, and in many ways that might be injurious." "You think then that I have nothing to dread?" "Nothing whatever: and even if you had, you could not do better than be on the ground. Were your house empty, there might be some faint reason for imagining that it would be plun- dered, but with it occupied there is no danger. You must remem- ber, Mr. Wharton, that the attacks you refer to have happened only in the wild and desolate regions of the Pennsylvania coal- oeds. They could not take place in this, one of the oldest and :losest settled counties in the country." "I hope you are right," said Mr. Wharton with a sigh, i" but I wish that the next four weeks were over. By the way, do you still retain your connection with the Globular " "To a limited extent, yes."   BACK AT STEMWELL.         341 i"Could you not have stopped some letters written from the brick-yard here, signed ' P. B.'?" ' Will they interfere with the strike?" "They may prevent it altogether." "In that case, I will see what I can do." Few more words Dassed between them until they went back to the house. "You will write that letter to-morrow morning?" asked Allington again. "Without fail." *      CHAPTER XXXV1I. PRIVATE BUSINESS. O  NE morning in November Mr. Homer Graynan left his office in Wall Street, walked towards Broadway as far as Nassau Street and there turned as though to go up town. Many hats were raised to him as he leisurely passed along, complacently receiving the plentifully bestowed homage of admiring looks, acknowledg- ing the salutations for the most part with a scarcely perceptible inclination of the head and once in a while touching the broad brini of his hat with a finger in response to the bow of some money magnate.  ,Ir. Graynan always wore a broad-brimmed hat. HHe was not only a financier but a philanthropist, and after winning the last dollar of a cherished friend by means of a skil- full- de v ised " corner," would draw a check for the conversion' of the Bugraboo Inclians without the slightest appreciation of any incongruity. The hat together with a certain clerical cut to the coat he usually wore -were valuable adjuncts to Mr. Graynan: defenceless w-idows trusted him to the extent of investing upon his recommendations, and though the defenceless widows generally came to grief, the apparel was none the less enticing to others. He turned the corner, and passing the rickety old church that, haNving fallen upon evil days, does duty as a post-office, was soon in that region which makes Nassau Street one of the most curi- ously characteristic in the city. This neighborhood has an indi- viduality of its own-an individuality so strongly marked that in no lquarter of the world could it be mistaken for anw other than what it is: an odd jumble of the most heterogeneous elements formnig  AInerican life. It is a strange mingling of lore and labor; boot-stores and book-stores jostling together and pleading for a little more elbow-room. Patent French calfs are offered at a bargain in contrast with school-books whose battered appear- ance \would denote an antiquity coeval with the pavement. Scat-   PRIVATE BUSINESS.         343 tered at varying distances are some furnishing-stores and a few places of general traffic, but the whole aspect of the street is decidedly literary-and second-hand. . A noticeable feature of every store is the tendency to disgorge its entire stock upon the sidewalk, where the mass is only prevented from flooding the gut- ter by means of wooden structures, shaky bf build and presided over by a guardian angel in the shape of a small boy. Nor is this prevalence of literature confined to second-hand book stores and waste-paper warehouses. Few indeed are the buildings which have not at some time contained within their mystic recesses the office of a weekly publication started either as the great national comic paper of America or to regenerate the fine arts. The whole street is a vast mausoleum, replete with these dreary, dusty -memo- ries. Could the palimpsest be read it would show a list of titles and prospectuses sufficient to fit out a new continent of writers. Some of the edifices, both new and old, are, above the first floor, given over almost entirely to lawyers, and divided into an infinity of little roonms called offices by courtesy. One of these buildings Mr. Graynan entered, and going up a narrow flight of stairs from which the paint had long been worn, opened a door on which was painted the naine "Samuel Goggings." Mr. Goggings' office, so called, was about as large as a state- room of an ocean steamer. It was probably for this reason that he considered superfluous all furniture which was not absolutely necessary, contenting himself with a dilapidated desk, a decrepit table, and two chairs whose seats were of durable oak. A ragged matting pretended to cover the floor, stained in innumerable places by tobacco-juice, and offering perpetual springes for woodcock in the shape of holes to trip the unwary. Even the walls were diver- sified by adorning patches of tobacco-juice, though near the ceiling cobwebs and dust struggled quite successfully to occupy the field. of vision; Large, irregular cracks ran overhead, and a timid per- son would be rendered the reverse of comfortable by bits of plaster dropping down the back of his neck with irritating persistence. As the eminent financier came in he saw Mr. Goggings stand- ing before a proportionally small grate in which was burning a still smaller coal-fire, warming his small, lean person. Dismissing the tow-headed youth who was his only assistant, Mr. Goggings offered his visitor a chair, and then fell to scraping his yellow cheek with one hand, waiting for the conversation to be opened. He *     344         LOSING TO WIN.               ( was still dressed in the suit of rusty black, very shiny as to the elbows and if possible more greasy in patches than when Frede- rick Bayner had seen him at Stemwell in the summer. "t How are things looking in the country?" said Mr. Graynan. "Well," answered the labor reformer slowly, "I should judge that they're just about right if you want to do anything. The men are ready to go on strike at a moment's notice." "Would it be necessary for you to go there yourself to set it going?" "No. I should send a messenger to the local secretary of the Six-ttour League. By our rules all question as to the propriety of strikes is determined by the officers. The honest sons of toil "- [ he grinned--"  have nothing to say about it whatever; nothing to j do but as they are told." "Are you certain they will act promptly upon upon your direc-  tions? '" "Positive. You see, they leave everything to the managers of the societies because they know that they haven't the headpiece for that sort of work; and, besides-between you and me-I tell 'em a lot of stuff about the laws of supply and demand and that sort of thng, and it staggers 'em. They can't understand it, but thnlk that I can, so they conclude that I know what's best for 'eni." Mr. Graynan gave little attention to this exposition of the labor reformer, apparently considering of more moment some memo- randa which lhe took fromn his pocket, so cabalistically written as to be unintelligible to any one but himself. When Mr. Goggings finished, the speculator looked at his watch. "It is now elev-en o'clock. Send your messenger to Stemwell by the one-o'clock train, and let the strike commence to-morrow, Tuesday mrning." "-\ll righit, sir," said Mr. Goggings. "When shall I see you again?" "Inl a few days, but do not come to me unless I send. If I have anything to say to you I will come here myself." Immediately upon his departure Mr. Goggings plunged into deep thougilt. "I wonder what he's up to," he mnused. * This talk about getting up a ' corner' in bricks is all nonsense. Even if it could be' done, there ain't money enough in it to make it worth his while to take so much trouble. Perhaps he wants to   PRIVATE BUSINESS.         345 get the brick-yard property himself. Guess that's it. He must be working things so as to buy it cheap. I wish I knew." Here his thoughts entertained the advisability of selling out to the other side. But unfortunately he had no opportunity to effect such a fine stroke of business as that would be. Though he knew who owned the brick-yard, he could devise no means by which to ap- proach him, nor could he tell how his overtures might be received. So, like many other ingenious gentlemen, Mr.' Goggings was obliged to remain honest from sheer lack of the occasion to be otherwise. With all the readiness in the world he could not betray his employer unless the profit of so doing were insured beforehand. He was in the habit of making a little money now and then by selling labor news to Mr. Saxton, and therefore registered a mental note to visit him after the messenger was despatched. This occupied but small time. Upon his return, the tow- headed youth received an envelope directed, "Mike Keoghy, Wharton's Brick-Yard, Stemwell," and departed on his errand. Mr. Goggings then locked his office door and betook himself to a cheap restaurant for his lunch. In the afternoon he went to the office of the Globular and com- municated to the managing editor the news of the strike. ( Are vou sure that it will occur?" asked Mr. Saxton; " for if so, I will send a man up to-night." "Certain," was Mr. Goggings' unequivocal response. "Know- ing what I know there can't be much doubt about it. Will you give it a good show?" "That will depend upon circumstances," said Mr. Saxton, stroking his moustache with the palm of his hand. "If nothing else happens to monopolize the space, I may be able to give it a column or so for the first two days, and then treat it according to interest." "I see you have stopped those letters which gave the laborers' side." "Yes," curtly. Mr. Saxton did not relish any allusion to this, being some- what jealous of his authority. The letters of Philip Bilter had been discontinued in consequence of a direct order from the editor, much to the managing editor's distaste. He had remon- strated and explained their value, but to no effect. i.5     346         LOSING TO WIN. Passing into the outer room, Mr. Goggings there saw Frede- rick Bayner, whom he had not met since the summer. "( Well, young fellow," he said familiarly, laying his hand upon Frederick's shoulder; 1 if you want to know anything about that strike now, Mr. Saxton can tell you." Frederick looked up from the paper he was reading, not at first recognizing the speaker, but remembering him by degrees. "You are Mr.- "He paused. "Samuel Goggings," promptly responded that individual, utter- ing his namne as if he were proud of it. "I recollect. When I last saw you it was about a brick-yard st rik e." "Just so. That strike's a-coming off to-morrow morning, and if you're sent up you'll find it rather interesting." There were personal reasons why Frederick wished to visit Stemwell, and a few considerations which made him shrink from the idea of going. Much, very much had happened since he had been there and had seen Lily. Since then he had told her his love, had received her troth, and was now revolving in his mind an event which would change the whole course of their lives. For some time he had been wavering between two lines of conduct, unable to decide, Lily and his awakened consciousness urging him to the one, and a decided reluctance pressing him towards the other. The type faded from before his eyes as he thought over the incidents of his life, endeavoring in a hazy, undefined manner to analyze his feelings. There is a cynical old aphorism to the effect that we always know something worse about ourselves than we are sure of about any one else. Frederick felt the full force of whatever truth there may be in the remark when he thought how pure and innocent was Lily. In comparison with her he seemed so soiled that at times he was almost sick at heart, reflecting upon the wide, wide distance there was between them in that respect. He had not been particularly wild beyond indulging in the excesses usual to most men at some period of their lives ; excesses which at the time seemed so small and trivial, but which now looked so big and black. At present he could not comprehend how he had ever allowed his -baser passions to control him. Dissipation of any kind appeared now not alone distasteful, but positively offensive. He hated the very recollection of many days and nights, and   PRIVATE BUSINESS.         347 tried to forget that they had ever been. But memory is a hard taskmaster, and never relinquishes any domination it has ob- tained, and so Frederick found it. Do what he could, these wan ghosts with distorted faces would not down, but continually clus- tered around him thickly, rarely separating enough to let him think that they had disappeared. But the mere sensation of being in love was very pleasant. It seemed, somehow, to set him apart from those with whom he associated every day, to lift him above their level. He felt enno- bled. Lily was so sweet, that he had a better opinion of himself than before, because he was able to appreciate her sweetness as keenly as he did. ' Her very presence thrilled him with a strange, wild delight which, after his custom, he tried to analyze but could not. He would have liked to tell all whom he met that he was in love with the best and dearest little woman who ever glorified the earth by living on it. He could see plainly that some features of -her countenance were not, separately, as beautiful as those of other people; that in details her mind was not so highly trained as some others; but it was the combination which pleased him, and which -like every true lover--he loved not because its parts were this or that, but because they were just exactly what they were. He would have been perfectly willing that the universe should know of his love for Lily. He did not experience, could not ima- gine, the shamefacedness of some men who go through even the marriage ceremony with a half-deprecatory air as if they really could not help it; but was proud that he felt as he did. It was a great thing to be very much in love, so purely and so earnestly as was he; and it was, moreover, such a holy thing that he would as soon have been ashamed of going to church. He thought of Lily with a reverent humility as if she were sacred--as indeed she was in his eyes. She appeared so high above him, in the aether where she lived, that a large part of his .sentiment for her was akin to worship. Of course she possessed what she considered faults, and grievous ones; but Frederick could never be brought to call them by that name. The word fault carried a meaning not to be com- prehended by a young girl living as Lily lived. At the utmost she could but exhibit an occasional little feminine petulancy, and Frederick rather liked that since it showed her to be not so utterly removed from him. As he one day said to Grains, his heart was always smiling.     343         LOSING TO WIN.              i It was full of sweet and happy thoughts; and about these he no- ticed a curious phenomenon. Whatever he was doing, no matter how intently he was engaged upon it, he could still think of Lily' clearly and distinctly, thus carrying on two mental operations at the same time. He was not much surprised at this, as he would not have been surprised at anything which could have occurred. The most wonderful event would have seemed perfectly natural, after the apotheosis to which he had been subjected. It filled him with profound astonishment that he should be the one for Lily, he so coarse and earthy. Frank might have a good opinion of him and Lily one much better, but he knew very well that he was not particularly clever and that all he would ever be worth could be accomplished only by hard unremitting work. It was another proof of Lily's goodness that she was willing to put such a high estimate upon his ability, and fervently did he hope that the day might never come when she would be of a different mind. He could hardly understand the transformation that had come over him since knowing her. He seemed living in another world. The sun shone with brighter, warmer light; the grass was greener; the trees wore their autumn bravery in more resplendent colors. At night the stars lost their thin, elvish look to glow with some- thing of human s)ympathy, and the moon to beam with mellower rays. Nor was it externals alone which had changed. To himself, he was another man. The influence of Lily was most perceptible not only in controlling his thoughts, but in that he did not think as he used. The constitution and processes of his mind were dif- ferent. As each man is but the product of his Ego, the expression of his nature, Frederick was not so far wrong in considering him- self another person than the one who answered to his name a year ago. His ideas upon all subjects were altered; so much so that it amazed him to compare the present with the past. \When once trying to fix the time at which this change had taken place, he found that he was unable to do so. It had oc- curred both gradually and swiftly; gradually'because it was ef- fected without attracting his attention, and swiftly because when his attention was attracted to it the work was complete. He smiled to think how he had been like a Harlequin before the har- lequinade begins. "I was blundering about, a human blue-bottle fly, not knowing my place in the world, and running my head into. all sorts of cobwebs while trying to find out. At a smile from   PRIVATE BUSINESS.         349 Lily, presto! old raiment fell away and I knew what I was. good for and what -I ought best to do." The reformation commenced .the day after his expedition to Staten Island with Tommy Grains, had been more than carried out. One of his friends told him that he was so painfully moral he had no excuse for living and was fit only for immediate trans-' lation. Frederick laughed and replied that he was thinking of next reforming his list of acquaintances, but inwardly only thanked Lily's kindly influence the more. And it was noticeable that by no word had she ever suggested to him the propriety of dropping any habits or of assuming any. She would not have ventured to propose a line of conduct to any one, and far less to a man; for she thought, and thought very truly, that not only are a man's passions more powerful than those of women, but that they are subjected daily to temptations whose force no woman can begin to imagine. To a man of strong natural desires, of impulsive feelings and a mental condition predisposing him towards recklessness, no woman can give advice.' She can form no idea of what emotions he is obliged to struggle against, of the strength of the feelings he must subdue; or, if she does know what he experiences, she is the very last person to advise himi A good, pure woman knows little of how men really live; a blessed ignorance shuts her eyes, and all would hope that the ignorance may forever continue. Lily recognized these general principles but dimly, influencing those near her more by the reflec- tion of her own nature than by -any conscious knowledge. Frederick's revery had led him a long way from his starting- point. He was abruptly recalled to where he was by hearing Mr. Saxton's voice coming from the little den in one corner where he was secluded like a valuable animal in a menagerie. "Mr. Bayner." "Yes, sir." "You remember my telling you to keep posted upon affairs at Stemwell, so that you could be ready to attend to them at any time? The laborers are to strike to-morrow morning, and I should like you to go there to-night. Make about a column and a half of your letter for Wednesday and a column of the next. If there should be any trouble and you want help, telegraph for Grains to assist. I am very sorry that I cannot employ Bilter, but     350         LOSING TO WIN. it is not my fault. Get your copy in to-morrow night as soon as possible." As he left Mr. Saxton, Frederick drew a long breath. Fate, chance, circumstance, whatever it might be, had decided his problem for him. He would accept the solution thus offered. Minds evenly balanced between two courses will turn to one or the other as the merest event may decide. Had another than FIrederick Bayner been selected as "Our Special Correspondent," his whole after life would have been vastly unlike the reality. Even the minutest incidents seemed to have coordinated in order to necessitate his going to Stemwell. Go then he would, and do what he was beginning to see he should have long since done: make known what it was a grievous wrong that he should ever have concealed-that Mr. Denton's son was not dead, but lived in the person of Frederick Bayner.   CHAPTER XXXVIII. ROLM'S RING. THERE was great rejoicing in the house of Mr. Wharton, for Lily was to return. As he had promised Allington to do, the head of the family had written inviting her to resume her former place, to come back and let all be as though no estrangement had ever occurred. When sitting down to write this letter, Mr. Wharton endeavored to couch it in language which, though affectionate, should yet impress her with a sense that she had done wrong in leaving him. But natural feeling conquered the affectation, and the words coming from his pen involuntarily gave token of the strong yearning he experienced for her dear presence. The phrases of veiled reproof that were fresh in his mind when com- posing the letter gradually faded away to be replaced by more spontaneous ones. It would have been difficult for him to speak severely, while his pen ran easily framing the sentiments which he had always manifested towards her save on one occasion. He laid much stress upon Allington's assurance that the distasteful subject should not be again mentioned to her, amplifying it in such wise that she should conclude it to be forever settled. In this Mr. Wharton was perfectly honest. He sincerely, bitterly re- gretted that he should have been forced-as he conceived it-into exercising what power he' possessed over Lily, and consequently jumped at any conclusion bearing promise that Allington's de- mand would not again be brought forward. The relief was too great to allow the reflection that there might be some subtle scheme lurking behind this fair promise. He was not enough given to estimating character to deduce the idea that Allington was not the person to abandon a plan upon which he had once set his heart. Betrayed into duplicity from an unthinking reliance upon good fortune and not from any innate predisposition towards wrong-doing, Mr. Wharton did not dream that Allington's words     5 D cLOSING TO WIN.                       X concealed any trap. The principal consideration, the thought ,Which excluded all others was that he could now offer Lily the peaceful, happy home she had so suddenly found transformed into a heavy grasp upon her future. Nor was he the kind of man to reason with much astuteness upon another's mind. By both nature and training he could with difficulty onlv be brought to look at an) su)bject fiomn an exoteric stand-point; neither could he suffi- ciently repress his own individuality to view it through the eyes of a different person. He had not the slightest perception of the simple fact that no sight, no sound, however common, can under an) circumstances whatever be exactly the same to two people. Naturally, therefore, he deemed, so far as he reflected upon it at all, that Allington considered the episode leading to Lily's flight as one to be forgotten and, if possible, obliterated. Of the personal indignity offered to himself he thought not a second time. To such an extent had he heaped reproaches upon his owvn head, that Alington's most stinging words were but art echo of his thoughts. W'hen those wvordls were spoken, the details of his crime being yet new in his mind, he had admitted their truth, unconsciously felt that they wer-e deserved and had not enough pride to resent their applica tion. Had they been now   spoken, he would have re.. ceived them in a   very different  style. His wrong-doing had lost much     (of its pristine freshness. As most acts contemplated in advance with    extreme  repugnance   seem  comparatively trivial when the performance   has passed, so the criminality of his forgery aI)peared now  to be blurred and faded. II1 some dim way he thought that by receivilng Lily back into his household, he to a great extent   atoned not only for  driving her thence, but also for taking the steps wnhich led him to speak as he did. These mental phases, separately  vague and shadowvy as they were, combined to blend into an appeal which could not fail to affect Lily strongly. And so it    cdid. As the  summer waned into autumn, there waned with it the flush of   exultation witl which she had welcomed her freedom.     WVhen first living with  Frank, the intense relief she felt at escaping the importunities of her uncle and his dark threats shut out other emotions from   her mind. She thought of her fornmer honme only with the gladtsome reflection that she was now where she could never again be exposed to such a  scene as had taken place    inl the library-. The recollection  of that eventful afternoon frequently intruded itself upon her, and it then seemed    as if those few short hours had amply sufficed to break all ties connecting her with Mr. Wharton and his family. But in a short while human nature began to assert its sway. As the memorable interview relapsed into the dimness of distance, old associations, old sentiments revived with unpleasant vividness. It was useless for her to attempt a cessation of thought concerning Eliza and Harriet. Try hard as she would to set them steadfastly apart, she had been with her cousins too much, had entered into their lives too keenly to at once dissever herself from them. The brain is a wonderful register of all we have ever seen or felt, and so Lily found it. Endeavoring to forget her cousins, however, was a task which she scarcely undertook consciously. She rather strove to  be unmindful of them as one strives to pass over sorie episode  which there is neither profit nor pleasure in recalling. Then, she soon had an object upon which to concentrate her mind, and this object rapidly monopolized her attention. But, while her affection for Frederick Bayner prevented her from dwelling much upon what had happened, it yet so affected her that retrospection looked through a veil which softened all harshness, did away with all ruggedness of outline. After the recital of how Hans Ander-  sen's little boy lost the splinter of glass from his eye, when Mr. Whartons image appeared to Lily she found some difficulty in remembering how he looked urging the acceptance of Allington. If Time be cruel in diminishing joy, it is more than kind in effacing pain. A momentary pang soon passes away, while months of pleasant companionship are hard to even obscure. That Mr. Wharton had accused himself of a crime, had asserted that he might be sent to the State's Prison, she knew well, though even that was becoming faint. He now appeared to her almost entirely as the kindly hearted, cheery gentleman who had been so successful in his attempt to provide the orphan with a com- fortable home. Similarly with her remembrances of the girls. All small ' tiffs " on the part of the sisters were long ago forgot- ten; only the constant underlying kindness manifested by them both, though in an unequal ratio, was now present to her. In growing accustomed to her altered life, she was vaguely surprised to find that it could be as monotonous as any other. Her drawing, in which she had become really interested, furnished a resource for many hours, reading occupied a portion of the day, and in the afternoon or evening Frederick was certain to drop in.     354         LOSING TO WIN. Unwittingly, Lily felt the absence of much which had before been an integral portion of her existence. To have no piano was a deprivation the greater that it was unexpressed. The having a car- riage always at her disposal was another convenience which Lily was one day astonished to find herself regretting. In a thousand little ways the transition from a large, well-appointed house with ready servants, to the present narrow, circumscribed quarters was productive of anything but a sense of comfort. She never before had realized how difficult it was to always arrange her hair, es- pecially when trying a new fashion; to go without the toilette luxuries so dear to every woman. Yet these drawhacks did not prevent her enjoying her stay with the artist, though the bare materiality of the restricted surroundings chafed her insensibly. The sudden death of Little Silva, with its train of preliminary events, was a great shock, opening as it did to her inexperienced eyes aspects of life hitherto unthought of. For a young, innocent girl to be suddenly brought face to face in contact with sin and its punishment, cannot but be a rude awakening from previous ignorance. In an instant Lily's whole horizon-line of life expanded to embrace new and strange possibilities. From this she sought and found a refuge in the proffered love of Frederick Bayner. The rosy vapor encircled her, reconciling all incongruities and pre- venting any introspection that might have worked disastrous results. Frank's company was pleasant, very pleasant, but there was so much lacking to complete a perfect harmony between them, that Lily could not but feel in a manner isolated. The artist's nature was strong and healthy; her self-reliance was so developed that, though tender and sympathetic, many of Lily's feelings she could not share-they were too faint, too transparent to be seen by her clear eyes. Driven thus upon herself, Lily was fain to concentrate her emotions upon Frederick, and soon came to regard him with an affection which under other circumstances would probably have been of slower growth. One day she informed him of the circumstances which had led to her flight, and he advised her strongly to return should she be asked to do so. he had no hesitation in saying that the life she was now living was not suited to her or her bringing-up, and that the sooner she left it the better. Like most men he had an intense horror of his sweatheart being exposed to the chance of receiving any mental stain-even though that stain should con-   ROLM'S RING.          355 sist merely of knowledge. His words but expressed Lily's unde- terminate sensations. She could not but be conscious that in her present situation she had not the opportunity, and might in a short time lose even the inclination for effecting that thorough develop- ment of self which is one of humanity's first duties. To be sure, she could study and read; but that alone is of small benefit when one is deprived-to employ a chemical illustration-of the social solution necessary for the precipitation of mental crystals. Do what she could to prevent it, her mind showed a daily more powerful bent to turn upon itself when she was not thinking of Frederick. Had she been furnished continuous occupation, some- thing in which she was so interested as to exclude all other ob- jects, Mr. Wharton's letter might not have operated so strongly as it did. She was not long in determining what reply to send; Frede- rick's advice and her own inclination both prompting a favorable one. She noticed that when mentioning it to him, he appeared as though upon the point of telling her something which he turned into a recommendation to go to Stemwell as speedily as might be. The incident was so trivial and unimportant that it passed at once from her attention. The day after her affirmative answer had been mailed, she left the artist's quarters in the queer building, accompanied by Frede- rick, who came to escort her to the station, providing himself after the fashion of attentive young men with some candy and flowers for her benefit. Frank's farewells were warm but short; she wisely judging that it was best Lily should depart with as little regret as possible. She understood fully how thankful the soft- hearted girl was for the opportune shelter, and thus feeling, know- ing the circumstances of Lily's return, strove to render it agree- able in every way. They separated with promises and hopes of a speedy meeting. In the waiting-room at the station Lily was approached by a fashionably dressed young gentleman in whom she recognized Mr. Rolm. He was introduced to Frederick, and the three sat down to await the opening of the doors. I'm delighted to see you, Miss Vevere," said the ingenuous Cray. "Miss Harriet telegraphed me last night to come here this morning and wait until I saw you safely off." "I am very much obliged to you and to her," said Lily; "but     356         LOSING TO WIN. should be very sorry if you have been at any inconvenience on my account." "Well, I've only been here since half-past nine. You see I couldn't run the risk of missing you, but never mind that," he added magnanimously. Frederick had been informed of the iron rule Harriet exercised over her adorer, but did not much enjoy this illustration of it, since he was thereby prevented from saying good-bye to Lily alone. "I say, Miss Vevere," continued Rolm, after a moment's cogi- tation, " won't you please ask me to go with you to Stemwell? You oughtn't to travel alone you know. I have my bag here, all packed, and I do want to go so much." "Yes," said Lily smiling; "not only will I invite you, but I promise to assume all the responsibility of your coming." "By Jove, now, that's real good of you." "Is your bag checked?" inquired Frederick. "Not yet. Excuse me, please, and I'll have it done." His departure gave Frederick the wished-for opportunity of murmuring to Lily some of those commonplace words which are nothing of themselves, but which have such a wonderful eloquence awnhen spoken by a lover. Rolmn returned to find Lily seated alone in the car. "Your friend has left you?" H e  was compeller to go down town on business," answered Lily, a slight flush still suffusing her cheek. "He looks like a clever sort of fellow," said Rolm, occupying an adjoining seat. "But, Miss Vevere, will you really make it all right with Harriet if she shouldn't like my coming?" "I will-really."115 "You see," went on Rolm nervously, "she's so-so-well, kind of uncertain, that a fellow never knows when he's pleasing her or not. At any rate, she didn't tell me not to come." This reflection soothed him so much that in about half an hour he entirely recovered from the trepidation of actually starting with- out permission. Soon he was altogether himself, kindly and slangy as Lily had known him; recounting small exploits with his usual display of frank boyishness. His stream of talk was so far bene- ficial that it required from Lily just the amount of attention to prevent her from anticipating the coming meeting. Alone, she   ROLM'S RING   .       357 would have so perplexed herself with imaginary questions and answers as to reach her destination fatigued and wearied. As it was, she alighted from the cars in the afternoon perfectly fresh in both body and mind. Hardly did she touch the ground before Mr. Wharton's lips kissed her cheek and his voice said tremulously: "My dear child, I am so glad to see you again." Harriiet's welcome was more effusive. She flung her arms strenuously around Lily, declaring over and over again her delight, but suddenly broke off short as her eye fell upon Rolm, bashfully lingering in the background. "What," she exclaimed, "you here-" Lily interrupted her. "Mr. Rolm came on my invitation, Harriet. It was very kind and thoughtful of you to ask him to meet me; and if you care any- thing for me, please be pleasant to him." "I will try," said Harriet, her features relaxing as she extended her hand to the trembling one and leaned towards him. The next instant Mr. Rolm's face burst into a blaze of joy and he straight- ened himself up at least an inch taller. Yet Harriet had merely given his fingers a slight, very slight pressure and whispered, A"You are a good boy." In the landau was Eliza, whose greeting, if less demonstrative than that of her sister, was equally'sincere. "I am afraid, Mr. Rolm," said Mr. Wharton, "that we must trouble you to ride upon the box."     i "No," said Harriet, who with Eliza occupied the front seat; "there is room for him here between us." So, Mr. Rolm to his intense. delight had the pleasure of sitting very close to Harriet and seeing her smile continually. The drive to the house was consumed in lively talk, none of the party making reference to Lily's absence save in the vaguest man- ner. This was as Lily had hoped that it might be, and as her uncle's letter had led her to expect. She could not give any ac- count of her flight without justifying herself by mentioning its cause, and that she was desirous of avoiding. Mr. Wharton took advantage of being near her in the hall to whisper: "Let by-gones be by-gones, Lily, and think of me as I used to be."     358         LOSING TO WIN. "I do-I shall," she answered hurriedly before obeying Har- , riet's summons to come up stairs.               Ail At tea, Lily had so resumed her position as a member of the ?: family, that already she experienced a difficulty in recalling the events of the last few weeks. Everything about her was so exactly the same, it presented the aspect to which she had been so accus- tomed that without any jar she fell easily into the old groove. The tacit assumption that her relationship had been in no way disturbed, tended to make her feel as though she were indeed at home. But small opportunity was given her for reflection, since the two girls had much to tell, and even Rolm showed unsuspected qualities of entertainment, to the amusement of Harriet who watched him quietly. "I have a splendid story to tell you," he said; " one of the best things I ever heard." ( LDo let us know what it is," said Harriet; "a only be sure that it is really flood." "There's no doubt about that," was his confident assertion. ( You remember that fel-I beg pardon, that gentleman who used to come to your house so much; Mr. Joles, I think, is his name. "Perfectly," said Harriet. "Dear man!" (Well, I met him in the street the other day, and as it's pretty near Thanksgiving, I thought I'd give hini something for the poor people." Harriet smiled approval. "So I asked him if he would take the money and lay it out for me. Then we got talking, and he told, me of a washerwoman he knew who was very hard up. I'll try to remember his exact words. ' She is a truly deserving case for charitable assistance,' he said. Then I asked him her name. He hemmed and hawed. ' Well-er--it is very-er-- objectionable. She is a--a-Mrs. Dammit, but I call it Dummit." Harriet exploded into a fit of laughter, in which she was joined by Lily and, after a little, by Eliza, who could not withstand the preposterous absurdity of the remark. Rolm chuckled over it so as to derive an ample revenge for the manner in which Mr. Joles had stood in his light. When the meal was concluded Lily remained in the parlor a short time before retiring. She went to bed early, not on account of being tired, but because, despite the readiness with which she. fitted into the family circle, she wished to be where she could think   ROLM'S RING.          359 out the day's incidents and its violent contrasts, alone and undis- turbed Parting with Frederick had been rather hard to bear. She knew that he was within easy reach, that he would undoubt- edly come shortly to see her, but the opposition between Stemwell and New York was so great that he seemed separated from her far more than he actually was. Upon her withdrawal, Harriet carried off Rolm to a small drawing-room where she ensconced herself upon a causeuse. "If you will be good, Cray, you can sit beside me," she graciously remarked. "Am I not always good?" he inquired, taking possession of the corner to which she pointed. ' Just now you are. Was that story you told about Mr. Joles true, or did you invent it?" "True, upon my honor. It really happened. But; I say, Harriet."  ' Her name slipped out involuntarily without any prefix. Much to his astonishment, his temerity was not rebuked, so he took courage and edged a little closer.  ', I'm real glad that you were not angry about my coming up with your cousin." ,How do you know I was not? But she asked me as a special favor to be pleasant to you." "Did she? That was first-rate. She's a nice girl, but she's not near so pretty as you are." He moved closer yet. 'Look here, Harriet--" He was so pleased with the facility he had attained in uttering her name that he paused to think it over. "Well? I am looking," and she turned her eyes upon him. He met them bravely. , You know I told you how much I love you?" "Yes, I believe you did say something of that sort." ". You believe? Oh, hang it, don't you remember any better than that! Why, I said that I loved you ever so much--more than I could begin to tell if I talked for a year. I can't say any of those pretty things you read in books, but I do love you, Harriet, I do very much." Harriet looked at him gravely, but with a suspicious twinkle in her eye. "Very much?" she said impressively.     360         LOSING TO WIN.              a "' Yes, very much. I didn't know that I could get it so bad--  I mean," correcting himself rapidly, " that I could feel so deeply." A Timidly he took her hand. To his overwhelming surprise it was A not drawn away. He had never seen her like this before, and half thought that she must be ill.              A "Yes, I do love you. Now, look here, just take this and say it's all right, won't you?"                 l He begged so earnestly that Harriet took the small package he ? extracted from his pocket and opened it to behold the sparkle of T a handsome diamond ring.                  .  "Please let me put it on your finger," the emboldened youth pleaded, rendered hardy by his success. "There!" he cried. "Now we're engaged for good and all. Oh, Harriet, I'm so happy." "Does this make me positively engaged?" she asked in pre- tended surprise. "Yes-oh, don't take it off," he almost yelled, thinking her about to make such a movement. "' I'll let it stay on for a while," she said consolingly, "just to see how I like it. But you must do everything that I say." "See if I don't," he exclaimed, absolutely beaming. "And- Oh, Cray," she suddenly cried, " what a wicked story- teller you are! If you did not expect to come here to-day, how did you happen to have this ring in your pocket?" "Now, Harriet," he said pathetically, "please -please don't make a row when I feel so happy." She smiled and gave him her hand, which he kissed eagerly,   CHAPTER XXXIX. "OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT." IT was three or four days after Lily's departure that Frederick Bayner received his instructions from Mr. Saxton concerning the strike at Stemwell. He was not only willing, but glad to go; partly-his first thought-because he would be near Lily; and partly because of the opportunity it afforded him for making the disclosure he had been some time meditating. Often had he been -upon the point of unbosoming himself to Lily, but was held back by a reluctance to own the dissimulation of which he had been guilty. He shrank from acknowledging to one so pure and simple that she knew him only by a name which was not his own, and amid surroundings utterly foreign to his birth and education as well as to the position he should have rightfully assumed. .But the extreme difficulty of owning to a wrong barred the explanation. It is so much easier to endure almost any condition once estab.- lished than by detailed interpretation to correct it, that he wa5 content to drift upon the stream without change of course. He saw that this was not right, but the habit he had assumed led him to continual and persistent procrastination. Only by a strong effort could he rouse himself from- this state which the lapse of each day made firmer, to do what, now that his eyes were open he plainly perceived to be his duty. But he was too young a man to adequately realize the suffering brought upon his father by the mad escapade in which he had indulged. Though comprehending that his prolonged. absence must of necessity have inflicted much pain, he was not aware of the events which made it cruelly heartless. He could not, did not know that a chance body floating down the river had been picked up and by a coincidence identified as his own; that inthe church-yard at Stemwell stood a marble slab sacred to the meem- ory of George Denton. When, on the occasion related to Alling- i6     362         LOSING TO WIN. ton 'by the gardener, he and. his father parted after high words culminating in a quarrel, he left the house in a blaze of anger. Coming to the city, this anger subsided into a sullen glow which determined him to seek his own support rather than ask his father for the slightest assistance. Thrown upon his resources, an educated person' is apt to gravitate towards the newspapers, thinking that ii he can do nothing else, he at least can write. So was it with George Denton; but he so far differed from the greater number seeking that refuge, that after furnishing several sketches as instances of his ability, he was taken upon the staff of the Globulagr at a salary. Had any consciousness of the grief overwhelming his father come to him, he would have instantly made himself known, and set the old man's mind at rest; but of this he was ignorant. In the first flush of his resentment he had taken the name of a dead uncle, and continued to bear it, supposing his father still angry swith him. It -would have been easy for Mr. Denton to find him, to have discovered his whereabouts, he thought, had he been so inclined. That no attempts were made he took to be an acquies- cence in their separation, never dreaming of the real cause which hindered such search. He found no obstacle to living in New York under an assumed name.  Ice had been there but once or twice before, and, owing to his education abroad, was scarcely more than acquainted with a few people. Only once upon meet- ing a gentleman with no sign of recognition, was he asked if his name were not Denton. Giving an answer in the negative, the questioner apologized for the mistake of confounding him with another. Three months sufficed to settle him into the rut of a life from which Lily's presence had aroused him, making him to feel keenly the false position in which he was voluntarily placed. To rectify this position had been his intention since her sweet glance had, like another Ithuriel's spear, shown the underlying ugliness of his condition. But all his reflections were more of himself than of his father. Naturally of a concentrated dispo- sition, both by inheritance and traininrg, he regarded his own feel- ings, his relations to his father rather than the reverse. And even now his desire, earnest and sincere as it was, to return and crave forgiveness, was to a large extent prompted by the wish t9 marry. Thinking over these things, upon his arrival at Stemwell in the   "e OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT."      363 evening, he despatched a messenger to look up Jake, that he might learn the present condition of his father. In a short time the stamping of the veteran's wooden leg was heard coming along the hall, followed by his knock. As he entered George raised his head and was astonished to see the brave soldier stagger back against the wall, and gaze upon him with an awe-stricken countenance and big eyes. "O Lordy," he ejaculated in a hoarse whisper, ( le' me out o' this." He commenced feeling for the door-knob, still keeping his eyes fastened upon George. "Why, Jake," he began. Again the hoarse whisper testified to the bravery of the dis- abled soldier. "Lordy, I swan I'll never drink another drop again if I git out o' this all right." Then, with a sudden burst of resentment, "What do you want to come bothering me for again? Sa-ay." "Do you not know who I am?" said George, rising and ap- proaching him. Jake's first movement was to turn halfway against the wall, draw up one leg and elevate his left arm over his eyes; the next was to resume his former position, but this time with mouth opened as wide as his eyes. "You don't mean to say that you're Mister George?"He brought out the last word as though it were a bombshell. "Indeed I do-no one else but myself." "Alive?" "I think so. If you have any doubt you can feel of me. Here, ,,E : , shake hands."                '  Tremblingly, Jake clasped the extended hand; as he did so his features underwent a total change. "By golly, I'm glad to see you," he exclaimed, his free man- ners returning the moment he was assured of dealing with flesh and blood. "Wy, I thought you was a ghost or somethin' like that-blowed if I didn't. So, you ain't dead, after all?" "What could make you suppose that?" "Sho' now! D'yer mean to say that you don't know 'bout that feller picked up in the river, an' everybody takin' him for you, -an' givin' him a first-class funeral an' puttin' up a bully tombstone. over him?"      364         LOSING TO WIN. "I have not the slightest idea what you are talking about," said George, bewildered at this unexpected information. "Tell me all about it-everything that happened after I left." "All right," said Jake, elongating the first word beyond its proper dimensions. "But ain't you a-goin' to ask me to drink for luck? ' "Confound it! Ring the bell and order what you want, but go on with the story."                    ij Thus adjured, Jake began his narration, giving a lengthy de- ; scription of finding the unknown body and of how it had been mistaken for that of the person to whom he was now speaking. From this, refreshing himself liberally the while with draughts of his favorite apple-jack, Jake passed on to an account of Allington's appearance upon the scene and of his domestication at Mr. Den- ton's. To his surprise George thus learned the Whereabouts of the GC/o[ldar's clever editorial writer, and also, for the first time, their relationship. Jake knew nothing of Mr. Denton's intention to render Allington his heir; nor, had he spoken of it, would the fact has-e made more than a moInentary impression upon George He was too exalted at seeing the consequences of his wild action to consider aught else. Now did he thoroughly realize the inten- sity of suffering he had brought upon his father; now did he appre- ciate the results of heedless impetuosity, the far-reaching train of6t a single wrong act. Dazed, almost stunned, he sat contemplative, Jake's meandering voice sounding in his ears like an inarticulate buzz. At first blush it seemed very strange that all this should have taken place while he was so near at hand, in the city not seventy- five miles away. Several times since Allington had been living at Stemwell had they met in the Globular office, though never carry- ing conversation beyond the interchange of civil formalities. One word passing between them might have led to the discovery George was now making, but that one word was never uttered. He was profoundly moved. The more he reflected upon what his father must have felt, the more was he shocked. So long as hle had presumed his father to be still irritated against him, he could bear the separation with a scarcely stronger sentiment than that of an ill-defined discomfort. Now, knowing to what his father's silence was due, he reproached himself bitterly for per- sistently standing aloof. In the midst of all this trouble there   "OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT."        365' came to him what he had often said to Grains: that motives can be no excuse whatever for actions. Each action must be judged solely by its results, and as they are good or bad so may it be praised or blamed. Was he willing to now try himself by that standard? He shrank from answering the question. The meandering voice at length came to a full stop, having been duly punctuated by frequent glasses until the small bottle was empty, and Jake rose, somewhat unsteadily, to his feet. i"Well, there ain't nothin' more to tell, Mr. George; you know as much about it as I do. But I'm mighty glad to see you again." George's response was short. As he closed the door upon Jake he bade him observe strict silence concerning his reappear- ance. This the veteran promised faithfully, and- the better to keep his promise started for his home. Left to himself, George drew a chair to the window and sat there looking out. The night was clear, but gathering clouds in the south promised the brewing of a storm. The stars, though white and large, were dimmed as if a fleecy veil were drawn over their faces, the beams reaching the earth with difficulty. Far in the distance hummed a low damp wind. The river lay black and sluggish in the strange, weird light, moving slowly between the sombre banks which at many places could not be distinguished from the water. For nearly an hour George sat there, musing upon the story he had heard and thinking how best to repair his fault. What might be called the extenuating circumstances urged themselves upon him with much force. Though perceiving wherein he had been at fault, he yet gave so much importance to the adven- titious incidents-as he thought them-that he did not blame him- self so severely as he should have done. Here, again, the egotism inherent in one of his years rendered him partially impervious to the due amount of self-reproach, as it had before rendered him unable to see just how great that self-reproach should be. He could not but recall to himself the fact -that his father had been harsh and tyrannical, without acknowledging that those qualities furnished no justification for his own conduct. Throughout his, meditations ran the undercurrent that there was much to extenuate him morally, and that while his father had much to forgive, he also had something on his side for which to extend pardon. Finally, he arose with a sigh and lit the lamp. It was useless     366         LOSING TO WIN. to longer ponder over the matter. What had been done was in the irrevocable past; no power could efface or even alter it. He could only recommence life with his father, earnestly determined that no separation should again occur between them. He looked at his watch. It was half-past nine; not too late to gather some material for the letter to the Globular which he must despatch by the next day's mail. In a few minutes he was wtalking briskly towards the brick-yard, over the ground so well I remembered and so familiar to him. When visiting Stemwell in suinmer he was at first somewhat timorous lest he might be acci- i dcntly recognized. But prolonged absence and the addition of a moustache had not only changed his appearance, but so made the former ocie dim and indistinct that even of those few who had known him as the son of Mr. Denton, none then thought of iden- tif'ing that individual with the newspaper correspondent. None but Jake recognized him, and the ghost had long since passed from the minilds of all save him who saw it. Although so late in the season, owing to open weather and Mr. Graynan's system of constant production, the brick-yard was in full blast. At the shed, where horses were dragging a revolv- ing wheel through a pit of clay to grind and soften it, rows of lanterns gave a shifting illumination. On the side towards -the river, just beyond the pit, was the machine for stamping the malleable clay into moulds placed beneath it, first dipped into fine red sand. Around this a long line of men was continually circling, coming Nwith empty moulds, placing them in a kind of narrow pocket to be filled by pressure and then hurrying off to empty the contents upon a hard level plain, smooth as a billiard table. All the workmen were bare-footed, their trousers rolled up above the knee, and the sight of these vague forms moving without noise gave a curiously impressive touch to the scene. Almost the only sound heard was the ever-recurring clatter of the moulds as they \were dropped face downward upon the plain to shake out the impressed brick. On the farther side of the plain were the store- houses and the places where the bricks were burned after several days' drying in the open air. The furnaces were of simple con- struction, being formed of bricks so disposed that at the bottom there swas space for a fire, while the loose arrangement permitted the passage of hot air between them all. The vents, save the rude chimney, were then choked with wet clay and the fire   "OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT."        367 allowed to slowly burn itself out. Some three or four of these fires were now alight. Tall, thin pillars of bright flame arose steadily into the hushed atmosphere, contrasting strangely with the dense black clouds that drooped above. Their waving edges seemed to flicker and sway as though the column were driven back upon itself, unable to pierce the air. For several minutes George stood watching the picture, that he might be able to give a good description of it, and then set him- self to the task of finding Philip Bilter. It would have been a waste of time to walk about Searching, so he took a position near the stamping-mill, where he could see the faces of the workmen as they approached. :Not until some half hour had elapsed was he able to perceive Bilter, bare-footed like the others, in the stained figure he noticed. "Wait a few minutes, please," said he when accosted. "I shall be off for the night after five more rounds, and then we can talk comfortably." George stood waiting until a touch on the arm caused him to turn and see Bilter washed and clothed so as to look 'like himself again. They walked down to the river where the black water glimmered feebly in the dull light, and the faint thud of distant steamboats came muffled to the ear. "How is the strike getting on?" asked George. "I suppose it is hardly necessary to say that Mr. Saxton sent me here to write it up." "It comes off to-morrow, as you know. Proceedings are to be opened by all hands quitting work in a body about ten o'clock- the word for that was passed around to-night. Then there will be a meeting, of course, at which the usual speeches will be made, and the usual resolutions passed. The grinding tyranny of the capitalist will be energetically denounced, and the rights of the horny-handed sons of toil as energetically advocated--that right being understood to be the compelling laborers to remain idle at the dictation of two or three seedy reformers. Then we shall have plenty of talk about the moral obligation of working only six hours a day, together with denunciations of the villanous employer who selfishly refuses to pay full wages for that time. You may be sure that we shall not deviate from the programme established for all strikes."     368         LOSING TO WIN. "Do the greater number of the men wish to go on strike? You see," added George, "that I am 'interviewing' you."  "For Heaven's sake then, don't mention my name," said Bilter earnestly. "By some of the leaders I am already considered a  spy-as they are pleased to term me. My letters to the Globular  came near getting me into serious trouble, so it is just as well that I the) were stopped." Are you afraid?" "Yes," replied Bilter, "I am afraid. Workmen seem to con-  sider that crime done in the name of a trades' union is no offence, no wrong. I have no wish to be shot from behind a hedge, or clubbed nearly to death on a dark night. So, I am afraid lest my  fellow-laborers should discover that I do not think exactly as they do, and endeavor to persuade me into agreement with them by  some such mild remonstrance. That's a pretty confession for a man to make in this nineteenth century in the great State of New  York  But, to answer your question. So far as I can judge, for I am cautious, most of the men know little and care less about the merits of the case. They are of too sluggish a wit to  reason for themselves, and being told that their interests will be promoted by a certain line of conduct follow that line unhesitat- inglv. Advice coming from any one of education they regard with distrust, believing it prompted by a desire to keep them down. But after all, my experience has taught me to judge them very leniently. They are conscious of their defects in education, of  lacking everything that tends to make life bright and pleasant. All this agitation and wild vaporing we hear so much of, is a blind groping towards something higher and better than their present condition. Physical force is their means for gaining what they wish, since they can form no realization of any other, and, more- over, it is the one whose power they witness daily." "  Very true. Your ideas are sound enough; but let us come from the abstract to the concrete. Do you anticipate any trouble from the strike?" "I cannot say. A riot depends so much upon the spirit with which its inception is greeted, that it hangs upon how the men  happen to feel at the moment. Should they be in a turbulent humor, a few words might incite them to violence, while other- wise they would hear the most inflammatory addresses unmoved."   "OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT."        369 "Now," said George, "one more question and I will let you go. Why does the strike take place?" "Ah," Bilter answered, " that is the problem I have been for some time attempting to solve, but the solution baffles me. Many brick-yards along the river have closed for the winter, but in addi- tion to this, a few others remain open, and like this, are forced to the utmost extent of production. It may be that the owners have made a combination to create a 'corner' in brick." "How so?" "By accumulating a large stock, forcing a general strike, and holding for higher prices; an advance of only five cents a thousand would give a large profit. This, however, is a mere theory, and I suppose it only because I can imagine no other explanation of the facts. I am loath to think such a scheme practicable." Their conversation then turned on other subjects, and George at length left Bilter, to write that evening what he could of his letter. 16*     CHAPTER XL. NOX ET PRIETEREA NHL. \W Ht1EN he left the hotel where he had seen his ghost personi- fied, Jake honestly intended doing as he had said and going directly home. But the transition from a warm room to the cool outside air caused the liquor he had imbibed to mount to his brain andi so render his course more devious than usual. Aipple-\whiskey possesses a peculiarly insidious quality, in that while for some, time it may be drank in seemingly innocuous quantity, it will suddenlye manifest its presence by overturning the wit of him whto hias incautiously trusted it too far. Many times had Jake verified this remarlk, an(d on this evening had he been in a state to al"prcciate reasoning, he would have recognized its correctness without a moment's hesitation. As it was, the beverage of which he had plentifully partaken combined with the excitement of wit- nessing George alive and well to make him hilariously oblivious. of evers-thing, himself included. He stumped his way along the road to. the south, tacking fre- quently as though he were a boat anxious to catch every breath of the wind, talkingl and singing in an undertone that every now and theIl swelled into an unsteady refrain. Tree-frogs vainly tried to outchirp him, but their shrill voices could not drown the cracked baritone in which he ejaculated: "And so Dwe sang the chorus from Atlanta to the sea, While we were marching through Gecorg-i-a." He would dwell on the last vowel with greMt effect, prolonging and shaking it much as a terrier shakes a rag which he is worry- ing. The dense heaviness of the night could produce no result upon him; the lowering clouds and oppressive air could not be- come thick enough to weigh upon his light spirits. In his present condition the atmosphere Nwas breezy and balmy; the clouds were   NOX ET PmZmTEREA -NHL.        371 of happy colors, seeming to shine upon him with numberless little twinkling points of merriment. The rosy attendants of Bacchus sported around him, and though they did once in a while lead him to step into a mud-puddle, he none the less felt their genial in- fluence. So progressing in a zigzag course-for the ground was too hard to afford him the resource of driving his wooden leg into the earth so that he could secure a purchase against falling--he reached the spot where the road forked, one branch leading past his house to the brick-yard and the other going by the entrance to Mr. Denton's. Instinctively, Jake took the latter, still declaiming how he had sung the chorus from Atlanta on the celebrated march through Georg-i-a. The sight of the two pillars surmounted by stone globes for a moment partially recalled his flighty sensations, too vague to be called ideas. "By golly," he exclaimed, slapping his thigh. "I'll go an' tell , Mister Allington 'bout the boy's turning up again. Durned if I don't. I swan it's bully. He'll be glad to hear of it." Allington was taking his regular evening walk around the piazza, smoking. Mr. Denton's failing powers required the house to be kept at a higher temperature than was long endurable to his full-blooded nephew. As winter approached fires had been lit in the different rooms and the hot-air furnace-that poison- breeder-set going. In sheer self-defence Allington had insisted upon going out doors to smoke his first evening cigar; and thereby inhale sufficient fresh air to let him endure the library until Mr. Denton's bedtime, when he could open the windows. But on this night the air was clingingly oppressive; it seemed in some mysterious manner to fasten upon him, to clog the free, full pulse of ordinary life. Involuntarily he grew low-spirited; not definitely, but in an uncertain way which he could not resolve into anything bearing the remotest resemblance to rationality. Pacing slowly with measured steps, he heard firs't a quavering voice coming by- fits and starts through the intervening trees, and then the stump- ing noise of the veteran's wooden leg crunching the gravel as it approached. Presently Jake's form loomed out from the darkness in shadowy relief, Allington turned to the front door and there leaned against one of the pillars of the portico.     372         LOSING TO WIN. "XVell, Jake, what's the news to-night? t "Oh, just the biggest thing you ever heard of, Mister Alling- ton. 'y, there ain't been nothin' like it since I fit inter the Wil- derness. I tell yer, it's just fine." "4 Perhaps what you have been drinking makes it so very re- markable." ( Now, that ain't fair, Mister Pole. O' course I've been a-cele- 'bratin' the event. I'd be a pretty feller, wouldn't I, not to go an' have a good tine w'en a man's come to life again, an' partic'ly this man." ( "What do you mean?" asked Allington quickly. i"HWha'd I mean?"Jake repeated huskily. 6' Wy, here's Mis- ter Geo,rge, that wde all thought dead an' buried, you know-don't yer rec'lect what a scrumptious tombstone the guv'ner put up for him, an' here he is jus' as alive as I am. Lordy, it's the best joke." He stopped to chuckle volubly. Allington's voice sounded to himself strange and far away as he demanded from Jake a detailed account of what he knew con- cerningf this abrupt resurrection. It did not take long to gather from the loquacity of the tipsy man all the information George had given. Only upon the conclusion of his tale did an interval of comparative sobriety remind Jake of his broken promise. "I say, Mr. Pole," he exclaimed, ( I forgot that I said I wouldn't tell anybody of this. Mister George he said that he wanted to speak of it first himself. You won't let him know I told you of it, will )you?" Certainly not. But you had better go home at once so as to run no more risk." As the effects of the apple-whiskey were by this time beginning to wear off, Jake turned with only a slight stagger, using his wooden leg as a pivot, and pursued his uneven path down the road. There was mingled with his self-complacency an uneasy semiconsciousness that, after all, the news had not appeared to Allington in quite the light he had expected; but the liquor was yet sufficiently potent to quell any rising thoughts of dissatisfac- tion. Jake's uncertain steps finally brought him to his house, ' where he at once rolled bed-ward to fall into sonorous slumber. That evening Mr. Denton waited in the library half an hour :beyond his usual time, expecting the return of his nephew; but no Paul Allington came. He was walking about the grounds, now   NOX ET PRETT'EREA NHL.       373 rapidly, now slowly, as the emotions hurrying through his mind suggested either action or meditation. He did not distrust Jake's story; he did not doubt that George Denton was indeed alive and at Stemwell. At first he had been inclined to do so, and treat Jake's * narrative as the hallucination of a drunken man. But Jake was not so tipsy as to make this solution probable. Moreover, Allington remembered the ghost and what Jake had told him- in the early fall. That settled the question of his veracity. This, then, was the end of his dreams. The son whose place he had taken, whose inheritance he had been promised, would come on the morrow, and with his coming would go all those pleasant prospects on which for many months Allington had allowed himself to gaze with gratified eyes. But could this really be the end?"Yes," he murmured, as he paced back and forth upon the gravel-walk. "Yes. I can see just what will happen. He will be welcomed, literally as one risen from the dead, while I will be thrown into the background and, not unlikely, be looked upon as a usurper. Of course, Mr. Denton will try to recom- pense me "-he smiled scornfully--" for my disappointment, but what is a portion when one has been counting upon the whole? If I express any feeling but that of the greatest delight, I shall be considered a moral monster. ' After a few weeks I shall be super- fluous ; in two months an intruder, and will then be obliged to turn out and shift for myself." It would have been absurd for Allington to acknowledge to himself any other sentiment--even had he possessed a much higher nature--than one of hard, bitter disappointment. Castles in the air are very pleasant to live in, but they have a disagreeable trick of tumbling about one's ears and of sometimes giving grievous wounds. Allington considered himself as one defrauded of his rights. He had come to Stemwell on his uncle's invitation, had given up his means of living in consequence of the bargain made between them, partly in words and partly understood: so much affection, so much money. And now that he had faithfully fulfilled his share of the contract, it was suddenly abrogated, and he would be called upon to express joy at the manner in which that was effected. It would have been a severe blow to any man ; it was a particularly severe blow to him, with his love of luxury,     3 74        LOSING TO WIN. that the anticipations justly formed should be shattered as by an earthquake. he had no doubt whatever as to his uncle's receiving George w-ith a burst of affection which would make its object almost idolized. So mournfully did the old man think of their separation; so reg'rettfully did lic revicw the past; so sincerely did he repent his error, that he would assuredly strive by all means in his power to atone for it by excessive indulgence. George, naturally, would understand little of Allitngton's position; and even did he under- stand it, w-ould be in nowise disposed to share with one who was a total stranger to him. Allington execrated the assiduity with which he had kept George's memory fresh in Mr. Denton's mind, but he had beli-eved at the timen that by so doingT he would render the old man more considerate towards him and more anxious to avoitl anly possible alienation. In this lic had judged correctly, thourh his carefully studied demeanor now operated against his intzrcst. tiBut, while acting with a selfish view, he had honestly held to the promise made w^hen the inherited feud was buried. In all wa-15s had he been to Mr. Denton attentive and kind; never shirking( any inconvenience to gratify him, assuming concern in whallt interested him, and often iaking a violent effort to dismiss hils own niood that lie miglht sympathize the more readily with the huinmor of his uncle. And now, after all this dreary, patient sub- ordination of selt-the hardest toil which can be undertaken--a siIngle revolution of the earth would render him thoroughly un- necessary-he w-ho had deemed himself all-important to his uncle. W\ith a smnothered curse, Allington flung himself down upon "a rustic seat. His eyes rested on the thick black clouds over- head. slonwly floating and chlanlging as they floated, close above the mountain-top. Tlhe night was intensely still; no sound reached hiin except the occasional low-toned ponderous thud of a passing steamboat far away ui)on the river, which came to him like the deep groan of a dying giant. The sullen sky, the deathly silence, hushed as though held in some mighty grasp, the blank solitude wherein lie sat, hemmed in by shadows, exerted upon his mind a malign influence. 1His thoutghts became more gloomy as he fur- ther considered the impending change in his life and fortunes. Again woull he be obliged to return to the hateful routine of daily drudflgery--all the more hateful now he had grown accustomed to a refined. leisurely existence. He could not suffer the idea of   NOX ET PRiETEREA NHL.        375 resuming the chain which had galled him with its burden since he had shifted for himself. Irregular hours and hard work were long ago distasteful, but habit had rendered them at least endurable; but that habit once laid down could not be taken up without great effort. Completely reconciled to living in the country with only an occasional trip to New York to supply the requisite variety, he looked with a sensation akin to despair upon leaving it for his for- mer tumultuous, harassed condition. And why? Merely because a boy had chosen to recklessly indulge a fit of anger, he was to be turned adrift, homeless and alone, losing all his bright hopes. Merely because this boy had pretended to be dead- A lurid flash of light seemed to shoot across the sullen, low- browed clouds. He put his hand to his eyes as if a thunderbolt had fallen near him. It was a thunderbolt which came, a thunder- bolt whose wild red gleam lit unsuspected vistas of his mind. Rising from the rustic seat, he resumed his pacing up and down the gravel-walk. The pebbles crackled beneath his quick tread with a grinding noise like the grating of teeth. A way out of his trouble had been shown to him as by an electric light that dazzled with a fierce gleam. The boy had pretended to be dead. If he were so in reality-why should he not be? For his father he did not exist; he undoubtedly had kept his name secret since it might become bruited abroad. So far as Allington could judge none knew the truth but himself, and Jake, who could readily be reduced to silence. If but the boy were dead! His late secluded life and the thought which he bestowed upon the fashioning of his melodrama had given to Allington's mind a morbid turn which affected him more than he was aware. Dwell- ing upon acts of violence, looking at them from all points of view, determining which'might be best suited to the characters of his play which, although fictitious, were embodiments of phases of his brain, rendered the conception of a wild and daring deed quite natural. Shut up with an old man to whom he could express none of his deeper feelings, the drama furnished an outlet for passionate intensity, but only a superficial outlet. The fundamental feelings remained the stronger for their concentration. They had accu- mulated within him as -an avalanche grows by constant accretion, and which at the opportune moment a word will bring hurtling down in devastating fury. Inclined to consider himself above all others, Allington's experiences had intensified that trait until he     3P 6        LOSING TO WIN. now thought of everything but as it concerned himself. Why should he be relegated to plodding toil for the sake of a boy-whom he had never seen? Dark, dread shapes arose before him. A blind unreasoning rage commenced to take possession of his spirit. Why should not the boy be dead? And Lily? His heart quivered at the reflection that in leaving Stemwell he would also leave her, that in losing the promised patrirlony lie woutd lose all hope of winning her. That hope had b)CCIl but a feebly glimmering spark, yet by the comfort he derived from its faint libght, he could imagine what desolate darkness would ensue upon its extinction. Whatever was pure and good in his nature had gone forth towards her, though mingled with this white affection \as an eager craving to obtain her by any means, be those means what they might. The sullen clouds were moving more rapidly across the sky; strangle streaks of unearthly light illumined their edges, pallid and thin like ghosts of the moon. A subdued rustling of the trees crept through the air as they tossed their arms, seeming to wave and beckon with mysterious meaning. He interpreted the sign; the sudden thought which had come to him so swiftly had now settled into a definite purpose. It could be made to harmonize \with a plan already resolved upon, and the morrow might see him undisturbed by fear of any rival. \Where would be the harm? Mr. Denton would never know but that his son slept in the grave to which h hhad seemingly been consigned two years ago. He-the most important figure in this game of life-would receive that which had been promised him, and surely, very surely be happy some time with Lily. As for George--he had chosen to be dead: let him remain so. After all it was nothing but the cessation of atomic action. All motives conspired to urge Allington towards this conclusion. Brooding over the prospect of his displacement wrought him to a steady blaze of wrath against the unconscious cause-a wrath w\hich wouldl leave no means untried to reach its end, and stop at nothing in its path. Striking a match, he looked at his watch; the hands pointed to eleven o'clock. Leaving'the crackling gravel, he went over the lawn down through the gate towards the brick-yard. The trees tossed their thin arms at him with much stealthy whispering among them-   NOX ET PRXETEREA NHL.        3" selves as he passed onward, his forehead knit and teeth set. Far off moaned the wind, momentarily coming nigher, strengthening to a hollow roar and then dying in melodious booming strains, as though it were playing an overture to a Tempest of its own composition. Down the road went Allington, but not alone. By his side walked the dark purpose he had conceived, huge, and veiled, shadowy, yet distinct. . Evanescent. gleams of light flitting over the dry earth made his path to look like a great snake, mottled and streaked in shifting colors. The booming wind, vague and vast, harmonized with his mood. There was in it a suggestion of hidden power to-uproot and destroy which he would have turned to his own use. The clouds assumed fanciful shapes: thick black arms stretching far as if to pluck at the zenith; then curling back like the twisting locks of a Medusa's head. Grim distorted faces glared from above, wide eyed, with dishevelled hair, gaping and'grinning as in goblin glee. Then the-whole sky ap- peared shaken by a convulsion, to be filled with writhing shapes that twined and tossed and heaved in endless fantasy of form. Near the river stood a small drinking den, and this Allington entered, after looking cautiously to see that the proprietor was alone. "Mike," he said, " let me into the back room. I have some- thing to talk to you about." They sat down in a grimy apartment, in whose corners big, bloated spiders waited for their prey. "I'm glad ye. come, Mister," said Mike, " for I wanted to tell fe that the strike begins to-morrow mornin'." "So soon as that?" {"'Yes. I had a letter to-day tellin' me to go ahead." "Did it say anything about a disturbance?" "Begorra, it said that there wasn't to be any, but that we was to have a meetin' an' pass some resolutions quietly. Sure, there's to be no fun for the boys, at all." ," But you are to make that demonstration we spoke of the other dav?"  "That on'y goin' up to the house and scarin' 'um a bit?" "You remember all that we agreed upon about the carriage and horses being near the gate at nine o'clock?"Allington asked.     378         LOSING TO WIN.               "Divil a word of it have I forgotten. You'll find 'urn there all rirght, with me to drive." i( It will be well worth your while. Now, there is something else for you to attend to, A young fellow is here as correspond- ent for the G/obidar- " "I seed him to-night at the yard," interrupted Mike. "He was a-talkin' to one o' the hands, so I axed who he was." "Do you know that he is a spy?" "How?" asked Mike, pushing back his chair and flushing an angry redl. "He has come here to write some articles showing that your union is a conspiracy, that you are banded together illegally, and that law]-s shlould be passed to suppress all trade societies." "Faith, he'd better not come too near me to-morrow night," said Mike harshly. "  If an accident "-Alli ngton emnphasized the word-" should happen, there will be no one to inquire after him." "It's very' likely that an accident will happen to' him," Mike said in a determined manner. t"Sticks and stones is mighty handy soIectimIIs." "Listen," and Aillington spoke in a lower tone, leaning for- ward. "If this accident should happen at night and he be- killed and the body never found, it would be a thousand dollars in your pocket." Mike stared at him intently and then wiped his forehead with his shirt sleeve. "I don't like it meself, but there's some o' the boys that wouldn't mind. You're sure he's a spy," he added suspiciously. "I am certain of it. You shall have the thousand dollars Thursday morning. Can I depend upon you?" Mike hesitated, but the large sum of money to be gained at no risk to himself-for although he saw through the flimsy pretence, he knew that some of his followers would not reason upon it- overcame his scruples. "Yes," he said firmly. Then Allington retraced his steps. The snake-like path seemed to wrinkle and crawl beneath his feet. The thin arms of the trees swooped down and tossed aloft in air, as though wring- ing their hands in eerie mirth. The clouds had gathered into a   NOX ET PRLETEREA NHL.         379 frowning mass upon the eastern horizon, and the wind sobbed loudly. The toads came out and looked at him. Their large emerald eyes shone with a lambent fire from the short grass that bordered the road. One sat squatting upon an old stump, its dull green back corrugated with wrinkles, blinking steadily and eying Al- lington with an appearance of solemn divination. The air seemed to thicken about him, and press with suffocating force upon his forehead. He reached the house to fling himself into bed, and sink at once into a heavy, dreamless sleep.     CHAP'rER XLI. THE STRIKE. THE next day dawned chill and gloomy. Grayish watery clouds floated over the face of the sun, obscuring its light, while the wind was keen and cutting, rapidly sweeping away the felw leasves that yet clung to the trees. The river was ruffled into short, chopping waves, that incessantly clashed against each other, sending into the air feathery wreaths of snowy, flake-like foam. Harriet and Cray Rolm were down to breakfast somewhat earlier than either Iwas in the habit of attending that meal. Dur- ing the days that Rolm had been staying at Mr. Wharton's house, the inscrutable chemistry of affection had produced quite a re- markable change ill Harriet's demeanor. She still exercised her potent domlination over her lover, but when he ventured to assert himrself, as hce did now and then, she manifested a meekness cor- responding to his own.  The ring was worn by her with great dignity, and she took frequent occasion to impress upon her sis- ter Eliza ttlat Cray was really a very clever young man-,' he has such a splcndid thead for business." On this particular Imorning she had even more to say than usual-for, somnehow, the mere fact of becoming engaged appears to gift the 1lmost uncomnmunicative with eloquence, and when either of the parties is ilclined towards loquacity the conversations are apt to b)ecoime interminable. "What do you think, Cray," she said, kindly allowing him to hold her hantl  as tht)y sat together on a small sofa in the reception- room. "After Awe went up stairs last night, Eliza was saying that I bullied you, and that you A were afraid to call your soul your own. Now, that's not true, is it?" "Yes, Harriet, it is true-one of the truest things she ever said," he replied, nestling nearer. "How can I say my soul is my o\n when it's yours?"   THE' STRIKE.          38 "Oh, well, you know what I mean. Do I really ever bully you. Tell me, now, honest." He laughed. "d No, dearest, you never do. Of course I want to do every- thing you wish, but the only ' bully' about you is you yourself." She shook her head. "Have I not said, sir, that you must break off that bad habit of using slang? But I will forgive you this once." He kissed her, hand. "So Eliza thinks that you tyrannize over me?" "That's the word exactly. She insisted so much upon it, that we'll play a little trick on her. At breakfast, you say something that I will flatly contradict, and see how satisfied she will look. Then I will say something and you contradict me--I won't mind if you are even a little rude." "And we'll see how she will look then. That's good. Ha! ha! It will be capital." Their contemplated joke was hardly more than planned before Mr. Wharton appeared, to be soon followed by Eliza. Within the last two or three days Mr. Wharton had much altered for the better. An indescribable something had passed over his features, restoring to them more than a, slight'trace of their former cheerful aspect; he held his head more erect, walked with a firmer tread, and in talking, his eye no longer wandered absently, but looked at the speaker with some of -its old serene self-confidence. Lily was the last to enter the room, bright and fresh as she always was. Since her return the girls noticed that her cheek bloomed with a healthier color, that her eyes shone with a calm, deep light never seen there before, and wondered greatly in private what could have caused the change. But however great their curiosity, their father's prohibition restrained them from any ques- tions, and Lily gave no heed to the broad hints that a confidence would be acceptable. She shyly shrank from exhibiting her heart in any way; its feelings were too solemn, too holy to be described save in those rare moments when one unveils innermost thought more as thinking aloud than to give any information, and none of these moments had yet come. The evening paper of the previous day lay by Mr. Wharton's     382         LOSING TO WIN. plate. He opened it quickly, looking at the third page, and his face kindled as he read. "I must go to the city in the ten o'clock train," he said, laying it down and falling to his breakfast with an appetite which was quite novel. "I think that I had better go with you," said Rolm, glancing at Harriet. "There is some business needing my attention which \will bIe all at sixes and sevens if I don't look after it immediately." "No," exclaimed Harriet, catching the cue at once. "You mustn't go to-day. I want you to take me out driving." "But, Harriet, I really ought to go." "I don't care. You must stay here." "Just think for a moment, please. You know- " "Yes, I know\ that I want you, and that should be enough." "Od, it's enough} certainly, if you insist. If I must stay, I supptose I nmust, anti that's the end of it." Eliza s-il(ed superiority at this vindication of her remarks, and the nic;ll passed on; Rolm grumbling occasionally, but bearing his lot in patience. \iVhen they had nearly finished, Harriet asked : ("At what time would you like the horses ordered, Cray?" "I don't want to go driving." Eliza opened her eyes at this unheard-of response, and even LilU showed a sirgn of amazement. Mr. Wharton had left the table to make what few preparations he needed for his day's trip. "But I wish to go," Harriet said, summoning up a look of indignant surprise. "And I do not wish to go," was Rolm's energetic response. Eliza gazed from one to the other in mute astonishment, evi- dently explectingr an outhreak on the part of her sister. "Well," said Harriet mildly, with an air of great sweetness, "have it just as you choose. I ought not to have prevented your going to Ne-w York, and I am too much oubliged to you for staying not to have you do what you please." Tllis passed Eliza's comprehension altogether. She stared so fixedli at Harriet, as if to be sure that it was indeed she who was speaking and not an eidolon, that Rolm with great difficulty could keep his countenance strai'ght. Fortunately Eliza was summoned away, and as she went he burst into a fit of laughter. "That was first-rate," he cried, endeavoring to compose him-   THE STRIKE.          383 self. "By Jove, how she did stare! She'll puzzle over this for a month." While Mr. Wharton was driving to the station, the brick-yard presented a scene of unusual commotion. Groups of men, wear- ing their best clothes, were scattered over the plain amongst the lines of drying bricks and around the works-now representing the reverse of their title-talking eagerly or listening to the explan- atory arguments of some orator of the moment. Some wore a list- less, slouching air, as though indifferent to what might come and careless of consequences. Others appeared anxious and troubled: these were married men whose large families interfered as so many obstacles between them and the savings' bank, and to whom prolonged cessation from work meant suffering and misery, the trades' union allowance being scarcely more than sufficient to maintain life. Many faces looked harassed and distrustful, some dazed, and a few resolute. A small proportion of the men had intelligent, thoughtful countenances, but by far the larger number showed a look of stolid, unreasoning acquiescence in the senti- ments of those on whom they relied for guidance. They plainly shirked the labor imposed by independent thought-had they been capable .of it, and their minds not become sodden by long years of disuse. 'The witches' caldron had at last boiled. The bad, poisonous ingredients of man's greed and man's ignorance were completely fused together. Mr. Graynan's schemes were successful; the yard was stored with brick to its utmost capacity, and now, with the strike commenced all payment of wages would end. It was a curious sight to witness this place of activity thus hushed in broad daylight. The wheel rested motionless in the clay, no longer grinding it fine, but letting it cake into firmness and break in wide, irregular cracks. The stamping machine re- mained spotted and clogged by bits of clay, its base heaped with the moulds which had been flung there when work was stopped. Fire was still burning in the banked-up furnaces, slowly smoulder- ing, like the passions of those who were vacantly watching the thin smoke drift away into the repellent air. The contrast between this appearance and that usually presented impressed the men; it was as though a fiat of nature had gone forth commnanding rest from toil. The groups of loungers swayed to and fro about the yard, aim- less as driftwood floating upon the water. There was no definite     384         LOSING TO WIN. purpose in their movements; they were awaiting developments. They had been instructed to strike and had obeyed the instructions. At the meeting to be soon held they would probably learn more; at present they could only wait. A few women with children clinging to their skirts stood on the sloping hills near the brick- y-ard, as though expecting that a change for the better were to take places beneath their eyes. Something pathetic might be found in the child-like reliance with which these men leaned upon their leaders; the blind, sturdy confidence which they placed with un- discrinminating trust where they had apparent reason to think it deserved. They were acting after their own light for their good as it looked to them; in the fierce struggle for advancement in which we all live, they struck out as their education prompted. George was early upon the spot. During the night he had formed his plan of action, and had determined that he would com- mence aright by first doing his work well and thoroughly. His letter sent, he would seek his father and then go to Lily. For the first time, he hesitated at the thought of seeing her. How could he tell that she had known him in a false character. The con- fession would be humiliating, but it must be made. What shame there might be, was no more than he had deservedly incurred, no more than he had wantonly brought upon himself; it was but a well-merited expiation that he should be obliged to confess all to Lily and beg her forgiveness. He roved about the brick-yard, entering into conversation with the workmen upon every possible opportunity, but receiving very little infornmation. 'Most could or would tell him nothing but that which he already knew; those who were willing to talk treated him to vague disquisitions upon the important moral and social advantages to be derived from a strict enforcement of the Six- Hour Law, that palladium of the laborers' liberties. From none could he obtain anything positive as to how long the strike would probably last and why it was that the men struck just now. Finally the hour for the meeting arrived. No hall had been secured, the leaders deeming that unnecessary, so the assemblage was convened in the open air, a pile of moulds forming an inse- cure pedestal for the chairman. Room was made near him for. George-that a fair report might be given to the public-for the greater part of the men were desirous of making the world know how just was their cause. Several speeches were made, ungram-   THE STRIKE.          385 matical, uncouth even, yet possessing a certain rough eloquence when the orators referred to how little time a workingman could spend with his family, what small opportunity was given him to read or to learn, and how hard it was for him ever to rise above mere manual labor. Ignoring all facts at variance with their theories, they made out a very presentable case, so presentable that looking through their spectacles it would have been difficult to say wherein they were incorrect. George took full notes of all which was said, thinking it better to make his letter too long than too short, since in the former case Mr. Saxton could cut it to a suitable length. After the speeches came the resolutions, Mike, who acted as secretary, handing them to the chairman. Though, speaking without seeing them, Philip Bilter accurately gauged their tenor. A lengthy preamble set forth the substance of an address, and was succeeded by two resolutions to the effect that a strike be declared and that it continue until the workman's fair and equit- able demand was acceded to: the demand being that six hours be considered a full day. The reading of these was received with cheering, after which the meeting dispersed to its individual dinners. Securing a boy to wait about the brick-yard and inform him if anything occurred, George went to see the superintendent, but found him as barren as the men. He knew only that a strike had commenced; thought it very foolish; had not the least idea what its result might be, and, generally speaking, declined to say any- thing further upon the subject. Leaving the unsatisfactory superintendent, George met Bilter coming down the road. "I did not see you at the meeting," he said as they shook hands. "No; I thought it best to stay away, for I might have been tempted to make a speech which would have got me into trouble." "You can do nothing to stem the current?" "Nothing whatever, and that thought confirms a resolution I half formed yesterday. My mother has left New York, and writes, wanting me to join her in a little village near Rochester." "And you will go when?" "To-morrow. I cannot resist the- manner in which she writes, nor the pleasure of thinking that she has partially renounced her insane ideas." I7     386         LOSING TO WIN. "I trust sincerely that you may find it so." They parted, agreeing to meet again. George made a highly heterogenous meal at the hotel, and then, establishing himself as comfortably as he could in his draughty room, with a travelling rug wrapped about his knees, set to work upon his letter. The afternoon came and went. The dull grey clouds deep- ened in color, their centres growing steadily blacker. The wind gained strength as the sun sloped towards the west, now roaring through the trees, and now sporting and dancing with the leaves that evser)%yw\here strewed the ground. The waves upon the river became larger and greener, dashing against each other with greater milht, and whirling the foam, now flecked with yellow, higlhcr abo-ve their heads. Paul Allington hadt passed a nervous, uneasy day. He awoke from his heavy sleep dull and fatigued. The strenuous mental struggle of the night had tired him; the plan he had determined upon lay on Ihis mind with a weight as of lead. He dreaded the approach of night, and at the same time was impatiently anxious for its coming. The gambler knows no such intensity of passion as when his all is staked upon the turning of a single card which a moment Nwill decide. Allington had staked his all, all even to his' honor, but must wait throughout a whole long weary day for the decision. He -was haunted by an impression that George might appear before e\venilg, and to prevent that dragged through the time sittinig or walking upon the piazza. He could not read; he could not work; he could scarcely even think. The night was so fraught with the chance of all his life that he was unable to keep his mind from turning round it as a horse turns round a shaft. He was tormented by an incessant prompting to visit the brick-yard, to learn how matters were going there, to satisfy him- self that none of his preparations were neglected. Only by a strong effort was he able to restrain himself from hinting to his uncle that a catastroDhe was impending. BIy some freak of circumstance, Mr. Denton was to-day in a pleasant, peaceful state of mind. He frequently spoke of his son, not reiicrsefully but rather regretfully. The approach of winter semne(d to I`'ducc his spirits to a more level condition; they were not so violent as during the summer, nor did he indulge them to such an excess as on the night when Paul had seen Jake about   'rHE STRIKE.          387  the ghost. As on some windy autumn day, at the setting of the sun the air becomes calm and nature subdued, so Mr. Denton grew tranquillized and more resigned to endure with equanimity. In the course of the afternoon the groups of men again col- lected about the brick-yard, buzzing like bees preparatory to swarming. They moved restlessly from place to place, gathering into larger groups, and then segregating into component parts. Mike was there, going from one spot to another, talking busily, animating those'who were faint-hearted, and discouraging those who suggested violence, as some were only too ready to do. The women .on the hillside had grown tired of waiting for the ex- pected change, and had gone home to attend to their domestic affairs, The afternoon shadows lengthened into those of evening; the bright, keen sun, shining without warmth when no clouds inter- vened, fell upon the western hills, lingered a moment as though loath to quit the scene, and then plunged suddenly out of sight. At the instant of his disappearance the wind whooped like a school-boy released from the supervision of his master, and set itself to playing all manner of riotous pranks. It tossed the poor dry leaves which only wanted to be left alone, energetically from side to side, battering them against the ground or else, tearing them from their friends, hurried them off into space to be thrown amongst differently colored strangers. It whistled over the brown, sere fields, lying in the adjacent country, rushing over the close-cropped, stubby surfaces, and tugging at the spare shoots of buckwheat as if to bear them away. But at last this country wind met a relative coming from the city, and then the two had a right royal time. Joining hands they harried the leaves until that sport became monotonous, when they turned their attention to the river. How they made the waves plunge and shake their heads like angry horses, and how the foam whistled and flew! Up and down the river went the two winds, irritating the waves until they beat furiously upon the shore, and hissed in impotent wrath. The water was heaving and throbbing like an enor- mous heart, contracting and expanding to the rhythm of life's beat; its surface flecked by trailing lines 'that looked to be long white feathers drifting. Finally, getting satiated with this, the winds flew up into' the air. Instantly it was as if the whole sky had broken loose. The tumbled clouds began to sail, shifting     388         LOSING TO WIN. their shapes each moment. At one time a troop of huge ante- diluvian animals appeared ramping in constant collision; then, their places were taken by an innumerable array of sheeted spec- tres that floated, mopping and mowing and wringing wan hands; then great vapors thunderously black hid them from sight, letting faint starlight trickle to the earth slowly and obscurely. Gigantic glowworms now  commenced to creep and crawl about the brick-yard. At first they were few, but gathering dark- ness brought them out in larger numbers. The sickly yellow gleams served to show that these glowworms possessed human forins, and the lanterns were soon reinforced by many torches of pine knots that cast a wild red lurid blaze. The lounging expect- ancy which had all day characterized the men was no longer visible. Countenances brightened, and motions became brisker as the gatheringl increased ill size. Action of any kind is always Nclcomed by those habituated to using their muscles more than their brains, and no worse punishmi-ent can be devised for such than compelling them to remain physically idle. Jake had heard of the strike, and was industriously stumping his way around the yard, loudly declaiming his sympathy with all workingmnen's miovements, and wishing that he were one of the laborers. "W)y," he exclaimed, "s'almost as good as bein' in the army agin, durned if 'tain't. But then there won't be no fightin', I su)ppose? This combined assertion and question was addressed to Mike, who replied with a decided negative. l1 \Nell, I'm glad to hear it," Jake muttered to himself, lighting a very broewn clay pipe as best he could inside his hat; "'cause I might 'a sent word to the militry if they wanted to raise a row; they'd be better 'n nothin' though they are only a home guard. By cosh, wouldn't I like to have a gun in my hands agin." I-e continued his perambulations, but on every side received the assurance which AMike had given him-no disturbance of any kind was contemplated. But still the glowworms gathered, and by eight o'clock all the hands were. upon the ground, provided with either lanterns or torches. Nor was the gathering entirely fortuitous, for its ele- ments congregated into a rude semblance of order, clustering about a centre. What was there going on Jake could neither see   THE STRIKE.          389 nor hear. He soon learned, however, for the laborers all moved forward in an irregular mob, without any apparent leadership, along the road that ran up to the highway. Jake plodded after them to discover what this anabasis meant. The many torches, emitting their red, smoky light, threw a mystic glare upon the roadside. The scarlet and yellow leaves lying heaped on the ground caught the reflection and flungg it back in a thousand tints of varied hue. They glistened as though polished by subtlest art, and the pale saffron of the maple leaves glowed as if fashioned with a heart of molten gold. The flicker. ing light danced between the trees in fantastic figures, mingling light and shade -together as the warp and woof of a fairy fabric. It illuminated with a brilliant flash the trunks of birch trees, turning them to columns of burnished silver and the next moment as if by an enchanter's wand changing them to lustrous ebony. It ran into all little nooks and corners where shadows were lurking, dragged them forth and compelled them to take precipitous flight, sometimes chasing the fugitives far over the fields. It danced in accompaniment to the march, frolicking as the men went on, leaping and playing in endless trickery. At one time it would seize upon a clump of trees and grass, and in the twinkling of an eye weave them into a pattern of gleam and gloom, laced with glowing threads; the next, it would contract to a narrow beam that like a sword of fire cut its way into the very heart of dark- ness. The men tramped on, speaking little and then only in hoarse whispers. ,Now the light began capriciously to alter their coun- tenances, making them sullen and scowling or frank and open as the humor seized it. Passing several houses on their way, the inmates aroused by the noise, came out to see what it might por- tend, but asked no questions. They merely gazed as the large body filed by in silence, looking wild and weird in the strange light. Coming to where the road forked, without any word of com- mand being given, they turned up that branch leading to Mr. Wharton's. Jake divined their intent and struck off from the main body, thinking that by going through Mr. Denton's he might reach the goal before them. But as he moved a strong hand caught him by the collar and a low voice whispered : "So that's your little game? I thought you were up- to some-     390         LOSING TO WIN. thing of the kind. You just keep still and come along with us, or you'll get in trouble." He felt himself thrust into the midst of the crowd, while a brawny arm drew his within it. George had written and sent his letter. He was on his way to the brick-yard when he encountered his messenger. 1 Oh, sir," the boy gasped, out of breath with running. "The men have all gone up the road to Mr. Wharton's with torches and lanterns." It was well for George that he knew the country, since by a short cut he was enabled to catch up with the rear of the crowd as it entered Mr. Wharton's gate and tramped up the road to the house.   CHAPTER XLII, ON THE RIVER. THAT afternoon Eliza went to make a visit to Mr. Benly He had called upon her twice since Mr. Wharton's returr to Stemwell, and as he was a clergyman she thought she could call upon him with perfect propriety. But her views concerning the infallibility of clergymen had received a severe shock in the readiness with which Mr. Joles permitted himself to be snared by Harriet. Though still considering them far superior to all other men by the ownership of a divine afflatus, Eliza had modified her opinions to the extent of thinking herself superior to most clergy- men. Her former humility had given place to a consciousness that she could think as well as they, and that in many things her judg- ment was entitled to quite as much respect as theirs. She found Mr. Benly in the brand-new Gothic church, busy: examining some decorations. "Your arrival is most opportune, Miss Wharton," he said, shaking her hand; "you can give me some assistance, I trust, about the services to-morrow. I was thinking of repeating to a limited extent our adornment of the harvest festival." This was precisely the topic to interest Eliza greatly, and its- discussion and carrying out, for the materials were ready, occu- pied them some time. The gorgeous colors given by the stained glass windows died away until the church was dark and the increasing chilliness made Eliza shiver. "I had no idea it was so late," she said, as they came out into the dusky twilight. "Will you not walk home with me, Father, and stay to tea? ' Mr. Benly would be charmed to accept the invitation, so they went together from the shadow of the purple mountains. "Do you know, Miss Eliza "-resuming the more familiar title-,' that your absence has been keenly felt by me. I'had     39^         LOSING TO WIN. little thought how much you would be missed until you were really gone. Do you expect to remain here for the whole winter?" "( I cannot say. Papa has not yet told us what his plans are, but I think it very likely." "How pleasant it will be to have your aid in all the good works of charity and benevolence which are daily clamoring for attention. There is so much to be done and so few to do it, that I long for some companionship." Eliza sniffed danger in these words, notwithstanding that they sounded so harmless. Mr. Benly's manner was more impressed than it had ever been. She drew herself up, answering with a slight stiffness: "I shall certainly not relinquish any of the charities to which I have been accustomed." "Then I may hope for your aid in all which I undertake?" "In all church matters-yes." "That was what I meant-of course," said Mr. Benly hastily, coloring at his mistake and getting nervous as he saw the inter- pretation which she had given to his words. Eliza was vexed at him and angry with herself for being vexed, so her next remark, Nas uttered in a tone of lofty asperity. "I take for granted that was your only meaning, since I assume that you would not so far forget yourself as to imply any other." "By no means," said Mr. Benly very contritely. A"I should never dream of saying anything to you." A slight, very slight emphasis upon the pronoun-even a Xworm will turn-caused this remark to sound the reverse of com- plimentars, but Eliza merely tossed her head and quickened her steps, wl\ile Mr. Benly followed humbly. It would never do, though, to let Harriet notice any sign of discord between her and the clergyman. As they approached the house, Eliza allowed Mr. Benly to catch up with her and resume the conversation. During the evening meal she was cautiously kind to him, palying him. as much attention as his position de- mandtd d without t)eing too prodigcal of her notice. After tea, as they were sitting in the small room looking to the north, enjoying the grateful warmth of a hickory wood fire, Harriet turning her head cried: "4 Oh, come here, Cray; look at this. It must be a procession of some kind." /   ?ON THE RIVER.          393 They clustered around the window, gazing upon the torcht crowd coming up the road; "Isn't it beautiful?" said Eliza. "See how the light sparkles and shines on the trees." "Hullo, what's this," Rolm exclaimed. "They are coming in the place." It was so. The gate was swung open, and the band moved towards the house, illumed by the fierce glare of the pine-knot torches. "What can it mean?" asked Harriet. "I heard to-day," said Mr. Benly, " that the laborers at the brick-yard had struck." "t Mr. Wharton owns it and they come here to-night," cried Rolm. "Girls, you must leave this at once." "No, no," came from them simultaneously. Harriet supple- menting it by the flat declaration, ("I won't." ,s But you must. Who knows what the intentions of these men are?" "I don't care," said Harriet stoutly. " 1, for one, will not leave this house so long as there is a roof to it." "She is right," added Lily firmly. "If there is any danger we should share it as well as you. But I cannot think that they mean any evil." "You won't go, then?" demanded Cray of Harriet. "No." He ran out of the room and they heard him bounding up the stairs. By this time the forward portion of the mob had reached the piazza and stood there hesitatingly. An inspiration came to Harriet. Now was offered a golden opportunity which must be instantly availed of. She whispered to the others: j "Cray has gone to get his pistol. Tell him that unless he is very careful and keeps perfectly quiet, I shall be killed before he can reach me." They gazed at her wonderingly. Before they recovered from their amazement she flung open the front door and walked out close to the mob. Lily could see her standing there, in the swarthy resinous 17*     394         LOSING TO WIN. glare of the torches; a slight figure to offer itself as bulwark agailnst such a storm. She went into the hall and met Rolm. "Let me have your pistol a minute," she said. Miechanically he handed it to her, and the next instant heard it plunge into the water pitcher. He turnedl white with rage, "L)Do ou know what you have done?" "Yes; " she led him to the window where he could see Har- riet. "I have saved you from imperilling her life and ours in a moment of rashness." "I At lHarrict's appearance a faint cheer greeted her, and re- stored to its full flush the courage which was rapidly failing. Nerving herself by a thought of how much depended upon what she might say, then advancing a step, though'very pale, she asked in a clear, ringing voice. "What is it that you want?" "We want to see the boss," cried several voices at once. "My father left for New York this morning, and has not yet returned." Upon this there arose the sound of many murmurs, amongst which she could distinguish such words as "Patsey sor him at the deppo." "I tell ye it's true." Harriet raised her hand as if she wished to speak. At the motion colmplete silence fell upon the crowd. I a;in sure that if you xwill only wait and see my father, you will lhave nothingi to comiplain of. He is always anxious to make every one happI'  as tar as lhe can. Now, please do not do anything until you have seen him. I know that you would do nothing bad, but please \wait and see him first of all. You see I am so certain you nean no harm that I am not afraid to come out and talk to you as I am doing." T'hese unstudied, natural phrases, spoken as they came to her lieps, were far llore efficacious thlan would have been the most elo- quent address. The mob was mainly a good-humored one which had come there for no exact reason, and was ready to drift away as the inclination prompted. Harriet felt this impulse and took advantage of it. "Now, won't you please go home, and when rmy father arrives I will ask him to visit you and see what is the matter." Some one in the crowd called out:   ON THE RIVER. -         395 "Three cheers for the young lady." Turning instantly from indifference to kindness after the man- ner of crowds, the cheers were given heartily, and the assemblage slowly retired, the torches burning low and smokily. Harriet came into the house, proud of her triumph, to be warmly congratulated. ("Where is Lily?" she inquired, looking around. Ay, where was Lily? She was not in any room, she was no- where to be found. The two sisters gazed at each other blankly. Had she mys teriously disappeared for a second time, leaving no sign by which she could be followed, no clue by which she could be traced? When George came up with the rear of the mob, his intention was to join himself to those in the house, -and there render what assistance might be in his power. But he caught sight of Jake, and getting close to him was told in a whisper, for the veteran's guardian, though giving him some liberty kept him within sight, that he had better go to his father's and obtain the aid of the gardener, coachmen, and their assistants. The idea seemed a good one. Its execution would take but a few minutes, and would give him the reinforcement of several men whose services might be valuable to the last degree. He ran down the path connecting the two places. It was strange that his first visit to his father's house for nearly two years should be made under such circumstances. Yet it would be necessary to see Mr. Denton first of all. Coming to the large windows of the library he saw his father sitting near the centre-table in an easy chair. Despite the urgency of the situation, George could not but pause to look upon him. , Time had dealt heavily-with the old gentleman; it had whitened his hair, bent forward the broad shoulders, and carved deep fur- rows down each side his face. Bitter remorse contracted George's heart as he stood looking at the change which he had been so greatly instrumental in pro- ducing. The next instant he opened the side door and was in the library. At the sound of quickly coming footsteps, Mr. Denton raised his head, and saw George in a strong blaze of light. He started. /     396         LOSING TO WIN. "George! George!" he cried wildly. "My son! Risen from the dead r " He sank back into the chair, covering his eyes with his hand. "No, father," exclaimed George, taking the hand that hung passive by his side. "Not risen from the grave to which I was never consigned, but risen from the mad folly which led me, though unwittingly, to give you that dreadful impression. As God is my judge, I never knew until last night that I was believed clead, or I had attempted far sooner to repair the consequences of my wrong. I stayed away from you thinking that you were still angry, waiting in my blind passion for the overtures towards reconciliation to come from you. Forgive me, father." The old man put both arms around him and pressed him to his heart. "Forgive you, George," he said in a trembling tone. "Heaven knows that I have too much need of forgiveness myself, not to extend it to you freely and fully. Thank God that you are now ewre safe and well. So you are indeed alive," he continued ten- derly, pushing back the hair from his son's brow and looking into his eyes. ("You have not changed much." ' Yes, father; I have changed-thoroughly and completely. Could you read my mind, you would see how I have altered. But while we are talking, time flies. The brickmakers struck this morning, and are now at Mr. Wharton's, surrounding the house. I came here for help. Will you send over there immediately all the men you have on the place?" "Yes." Mr. Denton rang the bell and issued the requisite orders, while George ran back to the scene of action. "4 Be careful, George, very careful," was his father's injunction. "Never fear, sir; I have now too much to live for." He reached Mr. W\harton's just as the cheer which greeted Harriet's last words rang through the air. Hovering on the outskirts of the crowd, he was accosted by Philip Bilter, who drew him anxiously to one side. "1 There is something strange going on here. I just now saw one of the young ladies leave the house and go down the path to the gate, accompanied by a man." George's heart gave a leap. The only young lady in the house whom he knew \was Lily. Could it be she?   ON THE RIVER.          397 "Come," he cried to Bilter, and the two set off in the direction indicated. Approaching the road they saw standing there a carriage faintly outlined against the darkness. By it were two figures, one male, the other female. "Lily!" She turned with a cry of surprise. At the same moment she heard an oath, the crack of a pistol, a smothered' exclamation, and then felt hers'elf thrust into the carriage while it rolled swiftly away. A short time before, as she was looking at Harriet upon the piazza, a note had been brought her from Paul AIlington request- ing a moment's interview on a subject of urgent importance, She hesitated about acceding. Though since her arrival Allington had been carefully and distantly polite, Lily could not banish a vivid recollection of her uncle's words and of the scene with Little Silva. Still, naturally fearless, her impression was only one of vague dread which yielded to the emergency. Allington was awaiting her in the garden. He was pale, but otherwise like his ordinary self. "Will you be good enough to walk this way, Miss Vevere?" he asked, leading towards the gate and continuing to speak. 1"This coming of the mob may-lead to results which I have fortu- nately been able to partially avert." "I beg your pardon, Mr. Allington," said Lily, accompanying him without considering -where she was going; " but I am afraid that I do not exactly catch your meaning." "I have reason to believe," he went on, speaking slower than he walked and often hesitating, " that there is an attack to be made upon the house, and I wished to secure your safety before it commenced." "But my cousins--I cannot leave them," she said, stopping short. "They are already provided for. It was best that you should leave by different routes, so as to avoid attracting attention." Lily began to be troubled ; she could not understand it clearly, and was strongly inclined to turn back, but she did not like to express her distrust. Besides, what could happen to her when a single call would bring assistance? She stood doubtfully by the carriage door when she recognized George's voice uttering her name.     398         LOSING TO WIN. Bewildered for the moment by the suddenness with which the carriage started, she no sooner realized the situation than she tried to open the door, resolved to jump out even at the risk of her life. But both handles had been broken off on the inside, and she was powerless to move the spring bolt. The windows were fastened so that the) could not be let down. NWhat could it mean?  This extraordinary conduct surely sprang front a motive other than that of preserving her from the mlob. The rattling of the carriage, its swaying from side to side as the horses galloped through the night, prevented consecutive thiought. She could but comprehend that she was in some inex- plicatDle peril. \\Whither was she going? The curtains were down, but by Iushing tChem aside, she saw lines of bordering trees, massive and lark, giving fitful gliimpses of a heavy shifting sky beyond. No- thing presented any guide to the direction. Was it indeed the voice of Fredericks-she knew him by that name only-which she had heard, or one bearing a marvellous rcseinblancc to his? But she could not be mistaken in its vibrating resownance. It wnas certainly he and none other who had seen her; in that case he would as certainly follow the carriage for an explanation of the mystery. It was strange that he should be at Stemwell without advising her of his presence, but it was undoubt- edly caused by something apart from himself. H()sv curious it all was. She found it difficult to believe that btarcly half an hour had elapsed since the laborers appeared before her uncle's house, and now she was swiftly going towards some unknown destination, alone and forcibly. She did not question but that when the carriage stopped, Ailington. if he were present, would upon her command restore her to her cousins. No thought that she might not see them entered tler mnind. Why else should she have left Mr. Wharton's? The carriage did stop and the door was opened. She leaped forth to see Allington standing near it with a lantern in his hand. She looked around and remembered the spot as one where she had( once att(ndltd a p)icnic, somle half-mile above the station. It was off the road, which here ran close to the river, crossing the railroad track ntnd skirting a small promontory whose outer edge was bordered by boulders and sand. A boat was drawn up on the shore.   ON THE -RIVER.          399 As Lily alighted the carriage whirled away. She and Allington were alone together. , What does this mean?" she demanded, looking him full in the eyes. He lowered his gaze. "It means, Miss Vevere, that I have secured your safety from the strikers." "You are mocking me.  Is this safety?"Where are my cousins? Why have I been brought to this solitary place?" Lily spoke bravely, but her heart sank within her as she noticed how utterly desolate were the surroundings. "Your cousins are on board that sail-boat," said Allington, pointing out to the river. "As I said before, it was best for you to go by different routes." ' "I do not believe you," Lily exclaimed, drawing herself tip. There is some trick at the bottom of this which I cannot fathom." Allington's reply was to unfasten the painter of the boat, and lay the oars ready to the hand, placing the lantern in the bow. He then asked as though he had not heard her words: "Will you please step into the boat, Miss Vevere?" Lily felt faint and sick to perceive that he was acting in ac- cordance with some resolutely planned purpose. She stared about wildly; there were no means of escape. He repeated the request. No!" "I regret that I shall be compelled to use force if you do not accede voluntarily." The mask, superficial at the best, had dropped. This throw- ing off the disguise gave Lily a sudden enlightenment which his next words confirmed. "Listen, Miss Vevere," he said, taking a step forward and folding his arms. "I told you some time ago that I loved you- loved you with a passionate intensity of which you could form no conception. Your uncle sanctioned my pretensions, telling me that you were heart-free. Nothing since then has occurred to alter my feelings. I love you now as I did then-earnestly, power- fully, overwhelmingly." Lily shuddered. He paused before resuming. "Owing to the unfortunate scene of which you were the wit- ness, I could not but think that I should never win your affection     400         LOSING TO WIN. in the ordinary manner. I therefore determined upon a bold, a rash stroke. Your cousins are not here-they are at home; your uncle's house is not to be attacked. I succeeded in bringing you to this spot because I swished to place you in such a position that you would be obliged to marry me. Believe me, Miss Vevere," his tones b)ecoming softer, " it is only with great reluctance that I have b)rought myself to take this step, but it most easily cut the knot of all difficulty. You will find in me a tender, true and devoted husband. Loving you so sincerely as I do, my dearest happiness shall consist in anticipating your every wish, thinking constantly and only of y)our pleasure." ILily looked at him scornfully. "'l'his is a sorry farce, Mr. Allington. You speak of love, and in the sanme breath say that you \will ' oblige' me to do what is miost rrpt)gnant, most hateful. I formerly felt friendship for you, later' a nmere sentiment of dislike, and now-- " "'Yes, now?" he asked, fearing what the answer might be. "Colltenlllt-thorough and profound." tier eyes flashed, her lip curled. She turned to leave him. - No," lie cried, springing to her and seizing her arm. "This imay be a farce, but it ends not thus. You shall be mine, come what may." She could Illake no resistance against his powerful grasp. Seating }cer in the stern of the boat, he pushed off and rowed out upon the black Awater. WNhen George called Lily's name, he was amazed to see the carriage disappear, while at the same instant came a stinging sen- sation in his arm followed by an aching numbness. He felt the spot, the bone was untouched. Running down the road after the carriage, accompanied by Bilter, he managed to tie his handkerchief over the wound, from which the warm, wet blood awas flowing. Taking a path which crossed a'hill, they saw the carriage far ahead, hardly more than perceptible in the gloom. They ran on in pursuit, but little by little lost sight of the vehicle as it was swallowed into the darkness. "Stop," said Bilter, breathing heavily. "We are losing our time. This afternoon I heard it said that a sail-boat had been hired by Allington, and he will probably take her there. It is our only chance." "( Who is Allington?"   ON THE RIVER.          401 ". The man with her--I recognized him." Changing their course, the young men hastened to the dock, where they obtained a light boat with two pairs of oars. George insisted upon rowing, declaring his wound to be so small that it did not affect him in the least. "Where does the sail-boat lie?" "( Off Rock Point." Heading the boat up the river, they impelled it forward as swiftly as their strength allowed. The night was so dark that with difficulty could they see even the shore, and distinguished it solely by the dull blackness as opposed to the phosphorescent gleams of the glistening water. "Hark," said George, stopping. Faintly they heard the sound of oars. It was evident that their boat had been also heard, for there came to:them a low cry, "Help-! help!" They redoubled their efforts, but not for several minutes could George, looking around, discover a dim shape in the dark- ness. "There they are-Hurry! hurry!"Then raising his voice he shouted, "Lily!" "Help!" came again to them. Excitement more than restored to George what little force the wound had robbed him of. The sculls sent showers of spray around them as the boat dashed on, trembling and quivering-in every plank. "Help!" came to them more distinctly. Scarcely to be perceived in the heavy night was a boat some distance away. "Pull, pull," cried George. "A few strokes more." They gained slowly but surely upon their competitor, wherein sat a silent man rowing with nervous energy. Suddenly Lily rose to her feet, gazed at the pursuer, and sprang. bravely into the water. The splash 'reanimated George and Philip. In a moment almost they had reached Lily and helped her into their boat. They searched for the other. It was some ways off, just per- ceptible. While they were looking, a large, red angry eye flashed from out the darkness, directly in its path, and- they heard the dull thud-thud of a passing steamboat.     40O2         LOSING TO WIN. A hoarse, bitter shriek rang in their ears, and then came pro- found silence. The steamboat stopped, lowered a boat and searched the hiss- ing water, but found nothing save a few splintered fragments of board. It resumed its way, the paddle-wheels at first revolved slowly and then faster and faster as it glided away like a dream. But the morrow's tide found what the steamboat could not, and bore with it to the sea the broken body and distorted face of him who when alive had been known as Paul Allington. The inscrutable river brought him to Stemwell, and the same myste- rious water carried him away.   CHAPTER XLIII. CONCLUSION. THANKSGIVING DAY came, bright and cloudless. Premoni- tions of winter were in the keen air that made the blood to circulate with greater freshness, but the-sun shone warm and inviting. The clouds had all drifted from the sky, leaving the whitish blue surface unflecked by any stain, and the river flowed calmly on, tranquil and at rest. Mr. Wharton returned on the late freight train, which deposited him at Stemwell about five o'clock in the morning. . Letting him- self in with a latch-key, he was ignorant of all which had occurred during his absence until he met the family at breakfast. Mr. Benly was one of the party; having been invited to remain over- night. '                    , Lily was the first one down. Her bath in the river had fortu- nately been attended with no evil consequences. The exalted state to which her nerves were wrought prevented her from feel- ing any reaction until once more in the house, when immediate bed and hot brandy-and-water had averted disastrous results. The events of the night she resolutely put from her; she would not think of them save as they related to Frederick. Allington's behavior she did not try to explain; the whole transaction was so swiftly executed that it was difficult to. realize the various parts. His motive he had told her too plainly to allow of misunderstand- ing ; but her mind shrank from vividly imagining it, and she was glad to let it remain misty and intangible. The household was seated at the table when Harriet came into the room, her eyes sparkling and her appearance radiant. "Here is the heroine," said Lily. "You have no idea, uncle, how brave Harriet proved herself last night. Mr. Rolm can tell you the story." Cray thianked her by a glance and proceeded to relate the     404        LOSING TO WIN. occurrences of the evening relative to Harriet's speech and the laborers. Mr. Wharton listened intently, balancing his spoon on the edge of his coffee-cup the while. The tale was brought to an end amidst an eulogistic chorus declaring how nobly she had acted, a chorus in which all shared w illingly. "You did finely, Harriet," said Mr. Wharton, gazing at her with glistening eyes. "I am proud to have such a daughter. \Will you think it a reward to know that you can go back to the citv for the winter as soon as you please?" "Oh, papa, is that really so?" cried both the girls together. "'Yes," he answered smiling, " it is really so. If you can be ready wne will go to-morrow. Now, Lily, if' you will come into the libra-r for a few moments I should like to talk to you." She followed him into the apartment which had acquired the dignified title of heing the receptacle of such paper-covered novels as were accumulated during the summer. Mr. Wharton closed the door carefully behind him. As he did so something in his manner reminded Lily of the last lengthy interview she had held with her uncle, but there swas no reminder of it in his face when lie turned, his cheeks flushed with exultation. He walked about the room with rapid steps, speaking as he ,walked. "You remember, Lily, what I said that dreadful day when I was so harsh to you, my poor child?" "I have tried to forget it," she said softly. "Good girl, good girl." He drew her hand within his arm and kept it there, patting it occasionally as she accompanied him in his walk. "\ Well," he drew a long, deep breath, " all that is now over. Yesterday I repaired what I did, and to-day you are as rich as you ever Nwere, and I am a great deal richer than ever before." She looked at him in astonishment. "Yes, myn dear," he continued, still walking rapidly about. "It is a long story, but I owe you some account of how I was led into actinig as I dlid. Graynan--you remember him, the great speculator--I)ers uaded me into dabbling in stocks under his advice.  I lst, tnd in tryincg to retrieve my losses, became more and more involved. Then, after using and losing all my own capital, H- "He hesitated in the fluent explanation.   CONCLUSION.           40o5 "Yes, uncle; never mind that.' "Well," he brightened up again. "I obtained that money, and it too went as the rest had gone. Oh, that was a horrible time, Lily; I could neither eat, drink nor sleep in comfort, and it was all the worse to think that I had driven you from my home." His voice broke. She kissed him. ," Do not recall that. You know we agreed never to men- tion it." He struggled with himself, and the cheery side of his character came up again. "Then I commenced to be desperate. That was after I shut up the city house because I could not afford to keep it going. One day, I don't know how, I happened tot think that Graynan was not the very best adviser I could have. I inquired around and learned that nearly every one who had dealings with him was the worse for it. I was in so deeply that it was hard to retrace my steps, but I scraped together every cent I could command, and when he said buy I sold, and when he said sell I bought-through other brokers. For the past week stocks have been steadily rising. Yesterday, when I went to the city, we had a settling, and, what do you think? the very person who had been selling to me all along-through go-betweens, you know--was nobody less than Graynan himsel. You should have seen his face when he had to hand me the balance that was in my favor. I am satisfied now, that he got me into this brick-yard business only to-hinder me from attending to the stock market. He thought the strike would keep me here." He stopped for breath, wiping his brow. "The first- thing I did was to cancel all my mortgages. When we get to New York I shall not owe a cent in the world. Then I got a'Bible and took a solemn oath to leave stocks alone for the rest of my life. God deliver me from ever enduring again what I suffered this summer." With this they joined the others, Lily very happy at both the news and the consequent reflections coming with it. In the mean time a long conversation was taking place between George and his father. They spoke little of the cause which had separated them'; their hearts were too full of joy for indulgence in any gloomy retrospection.     40o6        LOSING TO WIN                ; George was informed of the position borne by Allington, and deemed it vell to tell his father the circumstances of Lily's abduc- tion. The old man mused over it for some time. "He must have become a monomaniac, George," he said at length. "Solitary' life and constant brooding hatched out a trace of insanity which was in his father's blood. At all events he is now gone beyond our judgment, so let us think of him as leniently as we can." So with the mantle of charity the dead man's memory was covered. S'iome moments after, Eliza called to her sister: "IIere comes Sir. Denton and a young man with him. I wonditr who it is. See, his arm is in a sling." The young maln on being introduced proved to be Mr. George I)Denton--much to Lily's wonder. SIr. Denton merely stated that owing to a curious combination of events his son hadl not been drowned as was generally sup- posed, anl giratefully received the appropriate congratulations. He Imust be very fond of his son," whispered Cray to Harriet. "Notice howl he never moves his eyes froIn him." It secnmed aCcs b})efore (George could obtain an opportunity to tell Lily the facts of the case. She was too sweet natured to be offcelded at the concealment practised upon her, readily making all allouwances; and even had she been disposed to resent it the sight of his NouIlded arm would have obliterated any feeling of irritation. Yet, had George not run after the carriage he might have rcceived a far worse wound fromn the men whom Mike had illstructed to lie in wait for him. 5Mr. Decnton looked younger by many years; his voice was firmer and he held himself erect. But the alteration he had under- gone in a sirtglc nighlt was more visible in his manner. He spoke more gently anti clisIlayedl a constant consideration which fur- i nishcd a stronIg contrast to his former mode of address. The girls mentioning. their speedy departure for the city, Mr. IDenton surprised themn all and delighted his son, by saying that he should write to secure roomlls for the winter, ( How about your correspondence, George?" he inquired. - I think that I had better telegraph for a friend-Mr. Grains- to come up aind take my place.   CONCLUSION.           407 /    - "Do so, and when he arrives tell him that he must stay with us." "You can also tell him," added Mr. Wharton, " that the strike is over. I saw a deputation j ust now and, on making a slight advance, work will be resumed to-morrow." "I must be off to the church," said Mr. Benly rising. "It is nearly time for me to be there." "I will go with you," said Lily. "I wish to give thanks to-day." "And so do I," "And I," added the other members of the group. Mr. Denton's carriage was sent for to receive the overflow from Mr. Wharton's, and the whole party proceeded to the deco- rated edifice. The day before Christmas two weddings occurred, at both of which the brides were admired for their beauty and the grooms for the corresponding male qualities. And so the characters move off to the gladsome strains of the wedding march and the peal of wedding bells. Ring gay, O bells, for the new life commencing for these young people. Ring loud for George, losing the old selfishness and the old passion, to win purity and truth. Ring soft for Lily, entering upon her wifehood with white soul and holy love. Ring merrily for Harriet and Cray, looking forward with glad expectancy to walking hand in hand. Ring out all that is bad and mean and sordid. Ring in all that is good and true and dear. Ring out the rule of wrong; ring in the reign of love, conquering and sweet. THE END,     
         
      
   
