
    ----CITATION----
        Huntington, J. V. (1815-1862). Rosemary, or, Life and Death .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6853
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Rosemary, or, Life and death 
            
               "But just as she had    ly emptied the little thimble-glass into the coffee,
smiling at her own dex1rity, grandpapa came in, knowing she was dressed1x _.
kissed her, and said that Col. de Florealahadarrived,nthat Monseigneur was th1F
and everything was ready."

NEW YORK:
D. &amp; J. SADLIER &amp; CO.


RO

S

EM

AR

or

Life and Death

By J. Vincent Huntington
Author of "Lady Alice" "The Forest" etc.

Illustrated by Geo. G. White

D.&amp;J.
Boston:

*

N      w'  164 William      Street
d     Street.  Montreal: cor. of
ame and Francis Xavier Streets.
k  i86o

0

Y


M:

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860,
B D. &amp; J. SADLIER &amp; Co.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.

To the
Dearest and Truest of my Friends,
This Story
Inspired by Her Sympathy, and rendered less
imperfect by Her Taste,
Is Dedicated
By Hers in Life and Death,
THE AUTHOR..

wzx
NI-X


OR
LIFE AND PEAT
BOOK I.
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.
M E ME NTO, homo, qguia pul@is es, 6t in% pQdvc6
Every Catholic has heard these words addressed to
neing on the First Day of Lent to receive the as
ginning of' pe ance is the memory of the prime
.Dust thou a ,i and into dust thou shalt return.
then, that moralizes all things.
When Borgia saw the decaying body, already of
Queen of Spain, struck with the vanity of earthly
renounced the world, became a Jesuit, and -died
old anchorites and saints, remarkable for peniten
are usually painted with a skull before them, to s
stantly they meditated on death. No earthly care
to ambition, so brilliant with gayeties, so voluptu
sure, that it becomes not grave and severe and ful
flections when the hero lies in a coffin, or one sta
mausoleum. Death changes Dives into a beggar,
into a prince. It reverses all human conditions,

H.
em reverteris.
himself, when
3hes. The be-
val sentence :
It is Death,
pensive, of the
grandeur he
a saint. The
tial austerity,
how how con-
er so seductive
ous with plea-
.l of moral re-
nds before his
and Lazarus
and transfer

,
a


6                      ROSEMARY.
the balance from the debit to the credit side of all accounts, or
vice versa. The millionaire finds himself a bankrupt ; the pau-
per enters into possession of inexhaustible riches. The parched
and fever-worn ascetic puts forth his hand to gather the delicious
fruit of the tree of Life; the epicure begins to fry in Tartar els
The humble man is exalted on a throne among admiring angels;
the proud is trampled under the torturing feet of sneering de-
mons.' Truly Death is a moralizer.
I might say many other things in praise of Death, but I feel
that it is vain to try to flatter the King of Terrors, so I confine
myself to this one point, that He has always been a moral
prince, nay, the prince of moralists. All the beautyolu e,
of art, even of worship, becomes immoral and voluptuous,
worldly and sensual, till his royal seal is put upon it. The glory
of youth, the pomp of summer, the splendor of architecture,
tend to idolatry, till age and winter and ivy-clad ruin correct
and moralize them. What were even the sweetness of eccle-
siastical hymns, and the marvellous masses of great composers,
unless there were also dirges and requiems? The black vest-
ments which the priest wears in offering theuoly Sacrifice for
the dead, moralize the white and crimson sumptuousness of the
festivals. Otherwise, the centre of all worship itself would lack
the salutary symbol of man's mortality. Amid the throng of
fashion that moves along the streets of the gay city are seen
figures that announce the end of all things--the weeds of the
mourners ! Interspersed with the glittering shoas are windows
that preach a moral, those of the mourning warehouses; an
when you turn from them with a secret shudder, your eye shall
light upon the undertaker's painted coffin. That flashing line
of equipages also shall not want its preacher-the black-plumed
hearse. Let us turn the corner to avoid the unwelcome sight.
Behold, we have happened upon a marble-factory, sepulchral
urns and obelisks flanking its entrance, and slabs for tombstones,
with "Sacred to the Memory" already chiselled. Let its quit
this city where the skeleton grin thus intrudes at every turn; let
kleh'hiilasofplasre
us fly to the lovely environs sprinkled with villas of pleasure
and embowered in gardens :--haste to yonder enchanting grove
-ah! 'tis the first copse of the cemetery, and beyond; the white

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.                  7
monuments twinkle among the foliage :--everywhere, everywhere,
the same thanatopsis,
A profound philosophical reason exists for this ethical, and
more than ethical, effect of the grave. Death is the natural
law. All that is merely natural, then, must die? No: for the
soul is natural. All that is physical, then? Even so: the G
of Life, in imparting life freely to matter, has bestowed it with
a universal limit as to its duration. Either, then, man is not all
physical, or he is wholly mortal. If not wholly physical, and
as to his immaterial part immortal, then the interests of his
body and of time are subordinate to those of the soul  d f
eternity. Then neither beauty, nor health, nor riches, nor fame
nor pleasure, nor power, nor all these, with length of days, r
high in the scale of good. When the triumphsof this agein
material civilization are quoted, what could resist the argument
against old religions and the nations yet faithful to the Cross,
except the fact of death? What boots it to the boosters that
their civilization triuttiphs, when they lie in cold obstruction?
Stipendia peccati mors.  Death is a punishment.  One con-
ceives that, when the criminal swings lightly from the gallows-
tree. But surely for all it is a humiliation to die. Should not
this great immortal spirit, this spark of the divinity, that flames
within us, redeem its physical tabernacle from the law of nature?
Alone in creation man is not simply the handiwork, but, by a
divine likeness, the offspring of the invisible God. How then
if he stood in his integrity, should man be suffered to die? Ah!
- Death is more than a moralist--he is a theologian also.
slaying infant innocence he demonstrates original sin. In quo
omnes peccaverunt--so that there is no innocence. Hence the
necessity of an expiatory death, necessity which Cain denied
and Abel confessed; denial and confession alike reiterated
'through all the ages, and sealed in all by the blood of the con-
fessors. When I read some of our modn Ca        eo
full of the idolatry of the present, and which habitually re
the religion of atonement and sacrifice as at best a respectable
myth, I think that"one of their columns at least contains
standing refutation of their system: it is tel contahe
Obituary. Didn't I tell you that Death was a preacher that holds


S                      ROSEMARY.
forth everywhere, without regard to fitness of time or place ?
A horse-block would serve him for a pulpit ; no place too pro-.
fane for his homily. not even the pages of the - : he won't
scruple to set his fleshless foot on a table covered with linen
damask, or shining with polished oak, for a ghastly after-dinner
speh, that no guest relishes. At the theatre he rushes in with
splogue not announced in the bills, and tho footlights grow
blue, the actors vanish at the side-scenes, and the trembling
audience scatter.
ROSEMARY (in Latin trosmarinus,) is, you know, an evergreen
shrub. In the north of Europe an exotic; in the Mediterranean
countries it rows naturally ; in America I have not seen it. In
the system of Linnaeus it is one of the roses. Class II. Order
I.  orol. ringent, upper lip 2-parted, filaments long, curved,
simple, wth a tooth. It belongs to the 42d natural order both
of imupe  u and  of Jussieu, called  by  the  latter the  Labiatc  ---
af tsme to which thyme, hyssop, lavender, mint, &amp;c., belong,
al of them stomachics and tonics.  A French writer, who was
not a botanist, and whose description is consequently intelligible
to the unscientific, describes Rosemary (in French romarin)
as a woody shrub, about three or four feet high (it sometimes '
growswo 'ixor seven) and of a highly agreeable odor. Its
numerous slender, hard and ash-colored branches are covered
(butat regular intervals, we may observe,) with long, straight,
narrow, stiff leaves, of a brownish green on their upper surface
and whitish beneath. (Some of the varieties have a pale gold
stripe or edge on the green leaf.) The flowers are small, mouth-
shaped, with cleft lips of a pale blue, bordering on white. They
grow mingled with the leaves, and are in bloom all the year
round which is a peculiarity of this famous evergreen. Both
leaves and flowers were anciently renowned in medicine, being
esteemed highly efficacious in disorders of the brain and nerve
Their taste is warm, pungent and bitter.
On the shores of the Mediterranean, says another writer, this
shrub grows in such profusion that the air is scented with the
perfume many miles from land. In the north it does not bear
tie winter well unless the root be planted in the hole of some
old and broken wall. Formerly it was planted in princely gar-

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.                   9
dens, where it was highly prized for its fragrance and mystic
fame, and, like box, was cut and clipped into various fanciful
figures. In the western parts of England, and on the Continent,
it was especially affected to funeral solemnities, chaplets and
wreaths being disposed in tie chamber or laid upon the coffin, and
sprigs of rosemary distributed to the assistants and mourners
while the shrub itself was planted about the grave. But be-
sides this symbolism with death, it had another with the sweetest
emotions of life, rosemary being eminently a lover's plant and
mention made of it in all the amatory poetry both of the French
and Germans.
"There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; 'pray you, love
remember," says Ophelia to Laertes. Another meaning isfide-
Zity and constancy. Its funeral use, as also its amatory signifi-
cance, may well refer to either or both of these meanings. Nor
are they arbitrary, for-among the medicinal virtues of rose-
mary was believed to be that of strengthening the memory.
Accordingly, Rembertus Dodonoeus, in the Appendix to his
learned  treatise Purgantium  Aliarumque ea Facientium,
wherein (i. e., in appendice) he treats Variarum et guidem
rartssimarum nonnullarumn stirpium ac forum says of this
evergreen :-" Convenit etiam et presertimfiores omnibus capi-
tis ac cerebri ex, frigida humidaque causa malis: cerebrum
etenin desiccant"--they dry the brain--"sensus et menoriam
acuunt"--they sharpen the senses and the memory. It was
therefore, a profound calculation to plant this shrub about the
graves of the departed; and equally so in the lover to bestow
a sprig upon his mistress.
Etymologically, it is said by a great lexicographer to signify
sea-rose. In Irish it is bath-ros, which has the same meaning.
Bt evidently the true etymology is not    e but sea-dew.
Ovid says "rore maris," and Horace marzno rore.
" Ut modo rore maris, modo se violave rosave
Implicet: interdunm candentia lilia gestet,"
which Dryden rather freely renders-.
" Of roses, violets and fillies mix'd,
And sprigs of flowing rosemary betwixt
She formed the chaplet that adorn'd her'front."


10                ROSEMARY.

The English name is of all others the most beautiful, com-
posed, as it is, of Rose and Mary, whereof in the princely garden
of sanct ty one is the emblem of penitential austerity, the other
of unspotted mortal holiness. And in this connection might
something be said of our present purpose, touching the moral
representation of life in fiction, that is, as bright, winning,
sweet, captivating (if you please), even gorgeous, splendid
and dashing, but with atra morse in the back-ground. To our
purpose also are, eminently, the fine lines of Shenstone in his
.Shoolmistress:-
'Herbs too she knew, and well of each could speak
That in her garden sipd the silvery dew;
Where no vain flower disclosed a gaudy streak;-
But herbs for use and physick not a few,
Of grey renown, within those borders grew."
" And here trim rosemarine, that whilom orown'd
The daintiest garden of the proudest peer ;
Ere driven from its envy'd site, it found
A sacred shelter for its branches here,
Where edg'd with gold its glittering skirts appear
Oh, wassel days! oh, customs meet and well!
Ere this was banished from its lofty sphere :
Simplicity then sought this bumble cell,
Nor ever would she more with thane and lordling dwell."
" Oh, wassel days !" says Shenstone. Rosemary was used in
Christmas festivities, and other occasions of ancient merry-mak-
ing. They carried and scattered sprigs of rosemary in the gay
procession of the Lord of Misrule : the mystic boar's head was
dressed and paraded with this plant of "grey renown." Thus
we read:-
e"Caput Apri defero
Reddens laudes Domino.
The Boar's heade in handed bring T,
With garlandes gay and rosemary,
I pray you all sing merrily,
Qui estis in convivio.
To conclude :-" Rosemary" is confessedly a plant of "grey
renown," and manifoldly mystic significance ; it is associated
with scenes both grave and gay, with mourning and with feast-
ing ; its classical etymology speaks to us of the dew that

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.                 11
descends in the silent night, emblem of death; and of the sea
that embraces the world in its round of waters   eea
the symbol of life ; its more mdaer, ever-heaving ,
thesym~lof ife is mremodern etymology combines the
names of the fairest of saints with thegeverest-of the Star of
the Sea and Mystical Rose, and of that youvrgn,-ft an-
onized saint of the new world, to whom a native poet-priest
has addressed that beautiful stanza
" First flow'ret of the desert wild !
Whose leaves the sweets of grace exhale," &amp;c.
To such an allusion, we can add nothing.


THE DOCTORS.

CHAPTER       I.
TEE DOCTORS.
IT was in the winter of the year 185-, that a small party of
medical students were assembled one evening in the uppermost
story of one of the medical colleges in the city of New York.
I have my reasons for not fixing too precisely either the date
or the place. Who is ignorant that this great metropolis con-
tains several flourishing medical schools I There is no objection
to my specifying the month, however, which was February ;
nor the ecclesiastical season-it was the carnival. I recall the
latter circumstance because there was a huge party given the
same night not very far from the street in which, the college is
situate, and to which I was invited. The cream of the cream of
what is called in New York the "Fifth Avenue" were at it, and
I remember that there were some grievous gaps too, to the in-
tense dissatisfaction of the hostess ; for some dozen of the very
families who constitute the double distilled essence of the afore-
said cream were absent; not a single representative of one of
them was there-for they had just put on mourning. Such a
pity ---"Why," as Mrs. Oleander observed, "why could not
Miss Dashon have put off her decease just one week ?" But to
return to my students.
The apartment in which they were assembled was one of con-
siderable size, lighted in the day-time by numerous skylights,
at night by gas. Under the skylights, along the blank white
walls, were ranged long tables, about breast-high'to a man ; and
the rude forms of human beings stretched out on these table - in
the grim repose of death, sufficiently indicated the scientific but
revolting purpose to which the room was destined. All ages,
every colpr, and both sexes were represented. A certain terri-
ble neatness and order reigned. An odor, offensive, but by no

means overpowering, pervaded the apartment, modified, though
scarcely rendered more agreeable by the fumes of a cigar.
One of the students was smoking.
The hour was late, and all the classes had broken up, except
one, consisting as usual of four persons, who were pursuing their
occupation deep into the night, with the enthusiasm of science.
On the knees of the subject a work of anatomy lay open, dis-
closing splendid colored illustrations. The students chatted
gaily as they plied the scalpel, for custom had long since blunted,
at least in most of them, the horror and repugnance naturally
excited by their occupation. But looking on while they work-
ed, a gentleman, evidently not professionally familiar with the
scene, did not partake of this cool indifference
The students wore either long-sleeved aprons, or a species of
dressing-gown, intended to supply the place of the coat, which
was removed and hung up, to avoid contamination. The mere
spectator was easily distinguished, therefore, by his attire, which
indeed had the character of full evening dress, as if the wearer
had just issued from Mrs. Oleander's party. It was black, with
the marked peculiarities of a white cravat and waistcoat, and a
bit of red ribbon at one of the button-holes of the coat. The
physiognomy of this member of the party agreed with these
slightly foreign indications of his dress. He was barely above
the middle height, and the stoutness of his frame seemed to
lessen his stature. His features were well cut, but inclining to
the square in contour, his complexion colorless rather than pale,
the hair light brown and clipped rather short so as to display
the whole expanse of a fine intellectual brow; his blue Scandi-
navian eye was gentle in expression; and the very resolute,
strongly modelled mouth was shaded with a long, heavy, mili-
taire-like and almost yellow moustache. A white kid glove,
fitting a very handsome hand, a gibus or crush-up hat, which
he carried under his arm, and a short clpak richly furred, com-
pleted a figure so much out of keepir , with the place that it
has naturally arrested our attention.
A young man-he might be eight and twenty--who appeared
to be the leader or teacher of the class, and whose scalpel,
evidently of no ordinary power and delicacy, had just finished

13


14                ROSEMARY.

a beautiful demonstration of the neck with its curious net
work of nerves and vesse's, looked up over his gold-rimmed
spectacles at the gentleman we have described, and said with
a slight smile that imparted a momentary expression of shrewd-
ness and sarcasm to a singularly heavy pair of lips,-
"You are so familiar with death on the battle-field, I
suppose, Count Wissen, that a dissecting room has no effect on
your nerves ?"
"On the contrary," replied the gentleman thus addressed,
t    after a moment's pause, and with winning frankness; "I do
not remember to have experienced even in my first battle a
more vivid emotion than , for the first few moments after I
entered and saw you at your work."
" Really ! I should not have thought it !" replied the young
physician.
" In a battle we destroy life, we mutilate the living, but all
rudely, violently ; this calm scientific penetration into the mys-
terious mechanism of life itself is to me more appalling. That
a human being-a man-should be killed, seems to me quite
natural under certain circumstances : but to make that man the
object of physical analysis-that crushes me, doctor.'"
Count Wissen spoke our language with fluent elegance, but
with an accent that perhaps added to the charm of what he said.
" And what 'ud become of the nob'e art of healing, then,
without the physical analysis of man ?" demanded a student
who was engaged in physically analyzing the fasciae that play so
important a part in crural hernia. It was a young man of four
'of'five and twenty, of herculean proportions, ardent in expres-
sion, black-haired, black-eyed, irregular but strikingly intelli-
gent features, and with something indefinable about him that
marked the peasant. "Them big wounds, Count, that military
gentlemen like yourself make in the big battles,-how would we
ever cure them at all, if it was'nt for the physical analysis of
man-answer me that, if you please ?'"
" Oh ! I admit the profound utility of your present occupa-
tion, Mr. O'Cal-lagh-an I" responded the count, laughing, and
pronouncing every syllable of the Irishman's gutteral name with
foreign distinctness. .

THE DOCTORS-                    15
"Well,".said O'Callaghan, "this is the leanest subject that I
have physically analyzed"--glancing round with a mirthful
expression in his keen black eyes--." that I have physically
analyzed, as your excellency says, for a long time."
"The leanest of its sex, perhaps," observed the young man
who had first spoken, quietly pursuing his dissection.
"Why, the female sex, Dr. Galenson, has a greater tendency
to the deposition of adipose matter---ye may- well say that,"
joined OCallaghan. "And hence we are naturally induced to
inquire into the cause which produced the emaciation in the
present instance."
"This girl died of phthisis," answered Galenson.
"How in the name o' th' old boy. can ye tell that, before
ye've dissected the thoracic viscera 'V' demanded the other.
"I make the prediction at all events, Mr. O'Callaghan,"
rejoined Galenson, "that whenever it shall please my friend
*Fitzfulke to quit this lady's scalp and open her chest, we shall
find the lungs devoured by cavities and gorged with tubercle."
Fitzfulke, who was smoking, delicately removed the cigar
from his mouth with his fore and middle finger and said:-.
"Galenson is always right in his predictions."
"I would like to know on what grounds our worthy preceptor
. proceeds in this instance," persisted tht inquisitive O'Callaghan.
The abdominal viscera were perfectly healthy, Mr. O'Cal-
laghan. There were no typhoid lesions, no miliary eruptions,
yet the fat has totally disappeared, and the muscular tissue is
excessively soft and attenuated."
"Tabes dorsals " cried O'Callaghan, triumphantly, with the
purest continental pronunciation of the Latin.
A possible hypothesis," said Fitzfulke, again removing his
cigar, " and one that tallies with the mode of life too evidently
led by this young woman."
There was a slight pause before any one replied, and then
alenson said:-  Mr. Fitzfulke is a poet. To him a subject on
the dissecting-table is not simply a subject, but-but what.Fitz ?"
The mortal remains of a human, and hence suggestive of a
human history," replied the student, with a mixture of humor
and pomposity.
4


THE DOCTORS.

" Which in this case was the history of-an fortunate T'
inquired the count.
"Ye may well say that," answered the ever-ready O'Cal-
laghan. "It is, as I may say, the natural upshot of the career
-a private slip, a public disgrace, the streets, the hospital, the
dissecting-table.".,
"We may as well put that in our pipes and smoke it,"
observed Fitzfulke, who was trying to light a fresh cigar by te
gas-burner--" that our frail lady friends"-puff-" are all liable"
.-puff---" to come to this complexion"-puff' third-" infer-
nally soon !".'
"You have wonderfully dissipated my Horror of dissection
already," said the count, slightly laughing,-" if indeed it is
from this class that your female subjects are supplied ?"
"Almost exclusively," said Galenson. ." In fact, count, we
should be glad for scientific reasons, if it were not quite so
exclusively."
"Providence, Dr. Galenson, watches over modesty even in
the grave !" said O'Callaghan, with an air of profound con-
viction.
"I hope Rory lays all this to heart !" said Fitzfulke, glancing
at the fourth student, who had not yet spoken. ," If your
morals, young man, are not improved here, where will they be,
I'd like to know ?" added he, grinning sardonically, and knock-
ing off his ashes against the arm of the subject-" ashes to
ashes, eh ?"
The youth thus addressed by his Christian name was the
youngest of the party, smooth-chinned, and eminently hand-
some. In lieu of the calico apron or gown worn by his .com-
panions, hpwas arrayed in an old dark green wrapper, with a
velvet collar and braid-buttons: though frayed with use, it had
a picturesque effect ; and he dissected in gloves-a spooney-like
refinement which might be ascribed either to uncommon deli-.
cacy or fear of infection .-for the most horrible death is some-'
times caused by a dissection scratch. Notwithstanding this -
effeminacy, and a certain girlish softness in his manner, the
carriage of, his lead was strikingly noble ; and a finely turned
and masculine throat rose out of his open collar, over which an

abundance of rich tawny-brown hair fell like the mane of a
young lion im picturesque carelessness.
" Fitzfulke giving lessons in morality to Rory," said Galen-
son, laughing: for the youth blushed, but did not reply.
"Mr. Fitzfulke is a poet," observed Count Wissen politely,
"but my friend Rory is an artist, after all: one may therefore
properly counsel the other."
"They're a pair of Bohemians together, and sure it's every
bit of what they've in common," said O'Callaghan, with a satiri-
cal glance. This remark cut both ways ; for Fitzfulke was no
beauty.
"We offer a curious fortuitous reunion of professions here to-
night, count," remarked Galenson. "Mr. Fitzfulke is a man
of letters-a Bohemian (as Mr. O'Callaghan says)-whom the
will of his father alone constrains to study the more practical
art of healing ; our friend Rory (to whom we are indebted for
your company, count, this evening) is a sculptor, as you are
aware, who pursues anatomy simply as a branch of art."
"Does he handle the chisel now with gloves, as well as the
scalpel?'" asked O'Callaghan, with another smile of malice.
"And Mr. O'Callaghan was educated for a priest," pursued
the imperturbable Galenson.
"Which he'd been a-wearing a soutane down to his heels
before this." said Fitzfulke, energetically, giving a terrible long
puff from the cigar, "but for his too decided penchant for a
petticoat."
There was a general laugh at O'Callaghan's expense, in which
even the modest Rory joined.
"It's a slander," said O'Callaghan, reddening violently, but
with perfect good humor.
"Count Wissen," added Galenson, "is a soldier and a diplo-
mat."
"Two pernicious professions !" said the count, laughing.
"Say not so," replied Fitzfulke, pompously. "if I were not"
.-puff---" a Bohemian, I would be-Count Wissen !"
"Thank you., Mr. Fitzfulke !" said the count, bowing low.
"In fine," said Dr. Galenson, "I am the sole pure and simple
original doctor in the company."

16

ROSEMARY.

17

".


THE DOCTORS.               19

"Of whom all New York knows that Dr. Galenson is the
prince of quizzers, and the most promising of all the devotees
of pathological anatomy," said O'Callaghan, with Celtic fluency.
"The prince of quizzers ?" said the count, inquiringly.
"To quiz, count, in the language of the medical schools, is
to examine a class on the course. All these gentlemen here
attend my quiz," said Dr. Galenson.
"See what it is to visit a dissecting-room; I have learned
several new things this evening, already," said the count ;--
"thanks to your politeness, gentlemen, and the invitation of my
friend, Mr. Rory."
"In truth, we're a curious company altogether," pursued
O'Callaghan--" for example, in an ethnological point of view."
"Pray,.don't get on that subject, O'Callaghan!" ejaculated
Galenson, "or we shall have the whole question of races on the
tapis."
"Except yourself, count," continued O'Callaghan, not heed-
ing the remonstrance, "every one of us has a patronymical
name, indicative of the antiquity of our origin. Galenson, for
example, signifies son of Galen, and shows a Danish ancestry.
Fitzfulke equally means son of Foulke or Fulk, showing that
our friend Fitz here is a Saxon. O'Callaghan, or as it was for-
merly written-O'Callaghain--imports son of Calla-ghain, who
was a descendant of Oliol Olum of the race of Heber, one of
the sons of Milesius---"
"I told you so !" cried Dr. Galenson, laughing--" we shall
have the entire genealogy of the kings of Munster now I'
"From another of whose sons, that is from Ir," continued
the imperturbable O'Callagban, motioning down the interruption
of his preceptor with a wave of his scalpel, "were descended
the Clanna-Rorys or Rodericians, of whom was Rory More,
otherwise Roderick the Great, King of Ulster, whose descend-
ants were called O'Mordhas, or O'Morras, which the English
call O'More, and sometimes O'Moore ; but the true name is
0' Mordhas, or, more smoothly, O'Morras ;-the most ancient
princely blood in Ireland flows in their veins, count; though
they were only chiefs or lords of Leix in the wars of the faith,

when the ancestor and namesake of our young friend here,
RoRY O'MoRRA, was the bravest ally of the great O'Neill-.--"
"Oh, good Lord ! O'Callaghan !" cried young O'Morra, laugh-
ing, "spare us the wars of the princely Tyrone, I beg !"
''is odd," said the count, "that I never think of Mr. Rory
being Irish, although his name of course shows it."
"He is not Irish,'' said Fitzfulke, sententiously.  "As well
call me an Englishman, because my ancestors two hundred
years ago lived in Yorkshire. O'Morra and his father before
him were born in America."
"His father was born in America, Mr. Fitzfulke--I consent
to that," replied O'Callaghan; "but who were his parients ?"--
mimicking the Yankee accent of Fitzfulke. "Weren't they
Irish born and bred ' If CahalO'Morra's not an Irishman-who
is I As for Rory here, like the- rest of the young generation,
he is Americanized, as you call it, quite too much ; an' his dis-
secting in white gloves doesn't show the dare-devil spirit of the
old O'Morras-hark ! what's that ?"
A loud knocking at the door below made all present start. It
was not the entrance of the college, but the exit of a private
stair and narrow passage leading from the dissecting-room to
the general staircase of the building.
." Who in thunder's that I" said Fitzfulke.
"Somebody wanting Hartley," suggested Galenson, quietly
pursuing his dissection.
"Ye may well say it is some body wanting Hartley," rejoined
O'Callaghan. "Goodness knows that if anything is like to call up
the old janitor at this hour of the night, it'll be a body with
never a soul in it. Will I open the door, boys I''
"If you think fit, youmay," said Galenson.
"Sure it's none of my business, but seeing the old reprobate
is gone to Jersey to look after his mother that's dying, I'll do it
for him this once."
With these words, rather intended to save his own dignity
than proceeding from any real disinclination to perform the
office, O'Callaghan wiped his fingers on a coarse sheet, and de-
parted to open the door below, where the knocking was now
- peremptorily renewed. He presently returned, accompanied by

1 8               ROSEMARY.


20                    ROSEMARY.
a gentleman whom he introduced in a rather cerenfonious tone,
saying-
"Dr. Mannikin, gentlemen!"
The new-comer was a very striking figure, being very tall
and draped in a long cloak of fine drab cloth, with a collar of
sable, contrasting very effectively with an underdress of black,
of the Quaker cut, and terminating below in black silk stock-
ings and knee-breeches. His shoes were of buckskin, with
large silver shoe-buckles. The head and face of the stranger
were lean, exhibiting their bony structure with remarkable dis-
Cinctness ; his beard was cleanly shaven off, leaving only a little
inch of well-trimmed whisker in front of each ear ; the hair
cropped short: he had removed a broad-brimmed but glossy
black beaver as he entered, and perceived the dissecting class.
His complexion was dark and pale, his features far from regu-
lar, yet not without a certain look of intellect and distinction,
to which a large and piercing though stealthy black eye very
much contributed. He smiled as he bowed to the company,
showing a set of white and glittering teeth.
"Doctor Mannikin ! To what are we indebted for this unex-
pected honor ?" said Galenson, laying down his scalpel in
surprise.
"Your servant, Dr. Galenson-pleasure of meeting you at
the hospital, doctor-can't shake hands, eh ?-I understand.
Expected to see only my old friend Hartley on a little matter of
business-professional business"--with the same brilliant smile
as before.
"Can Dr. Mannikin require a 'subject' t" replied Galenson,
resuming his sang froicZ, aid with his usual careless laugh. "I
thought your experiments, Doctor, were made not upon the dead
but the living. But I beg pardon for not introducing you to
my friends.  Dr. Mannikin, gentlemen, is well-known to
you all by reputation. Mr. O'Callaghan, doctor-Mr. Fitzfulke
-Mr. O'Morra-all my pupils. Count Wissen, Dr. Mannikin.
Dr. Mannikin, Count Wissen. The celebrated Dr. Ezekiel Man-
nikin, count, author of an erudite work on Toxicology, and one
of the most eminent physicians of the metropolis. Count
Wissen, doctor, is an author like yourself."

THE DOCTORS.                    21
"But not of the same celebrity," said the count, who, not
being embarrassed by any contamination, shook hands. with the
new-comer, after the American fashion.
"2if, as I infer," said Dr. Mannikin, "Count Wissen is the Re-
sident Minister of His Majesty the King of ----, at Washington,
his disclaimer has more of sarcasm than of modesty."
"Dr. Mannikin's work on 'Celebrated Cases of Poisoning'
enjoys a European reputation," observed O'Callaghan, who
could not be long without putting in his oar. "And really,
doctor, I'd be for just creating a professorship of Toxicology in
the college for yourself; it would be for our advantage greatly."
"Whether it would be for the advantage of the college to in-
stitute a professorship of the Art of Poisoning-which is the
meaning of Toxicology-may perhaps be doubted," said Galen-
son drily ; whereat Fitzfulke laughed.
"In Italy, doctor," said the count with courtesy, "in the
time of the Borgias, your peculiar erudition would have made
your fortune.'
"Equally in America !" exclaimed O'Callaghan.   "Sure,
what with wives that want to poison their husbands, and hus-
bands willing to serve them the same good turn, a toxicologist
never need starve, if the learned doctor will pardon me the ob-'
servation."
"Unfortunately," said Dr. Mannikin, with his peculiar smile,
"our skill is seldom called in till too late, when it serves rather
to detect crime than to prevent it--which (Dr. Galenson will
excuse the for saying) are the legitimate objects of toxicology."
"It is never called in to facilitate crime, then, doctor 'i" in-
quired Galenson, carelessly.
"Persons who meditate suicide or murder seldom consult the
regular faculty on the means, I imagine," replied the toxicolo-
gist, with composure.
"No," said Galenson, peering at his medical brother over his
gold-rimmed spectacles ;-" but I should imagine that in a city
like this, considering the almost mysterious knowledge attributed
to you by the profession as well as by the public, you must
sometimes be sounded by those who wish to make away either
with themselves or others '"

,1


THE DOCTORS.               23

22                ROSEMARY.

" Medical men are often the recipients of strange confidences
I confess," replied Dr. Mannikin, with an air of frankness.
" You possess some powerful oriental drugs, not known to
our pharmaceutists, do you not, doctor ."
"I have said so in my published treatise."
"You became acquainted with them in India '
" Ah ! the doctor has travelled !" said the count.
"'A Thibetian juggler, whom I met in Cashmere," said Dr.
Mannikin with an air of mystery, "communicated to me some .
exceedingly potent agents, the knowledge of which has been
transmitted from age to age, for perhaps thousands and tens of
thousands of years, by the magical guilds of the East.".
The young men all regarded Dr. Mannikih with curiosity :
but O'Callaghan said in an under-tone--" Tens of thousands of
years ! pooh ! Before the creation of the world ."
"This is very piquant," observed Count Wissen. "I am
more than ever convinced that my adventure to-night was a
good inspiration, Mr. Rory. Pray, doctor, may I ask-were
you initiated in the guild of which you speak V"
"There is no other mode of penetrating the secret," replied
the toxicologist, solemnly.
"Humph i" said Galenson. "And is it true that these Indian
fellows have drugs with which they can simulate trance and
produce apparent death ''
"They have."
"Did you witness such an experiment yourself, doctor !'
inquired the count.
Did respiration cease ?" demanded Galenson.
"To all external seeming the fellow was as dead as one of
these subjects," replied Mannikin.  "The only discoverable
" indication of life was a faint warmth about the heart."
"And this condition lasted 'I"
-"six weeks,"* answered the toxicologist, with a flush. "But
* For a more particular account of this wonderful feat, and for
evidence of the singular knowledge of the oriental jugglers in drugs,
see Huc's Travels, and a circumstantial'Narrative of the Apparent
Death of a Juggler, which was witnessed by one of the Governors

to change the topic--you have published a work on the Law of
Projectiles, I think, count '"
'  The count was civilly answering this query, while the students
in an under-tone discussed the probability and possibility of Dr.
Mannikin's story, with little apparent faith in that distinguished
gentleman's veracity, when the attention of all parties was again
arrested by a thundering knock at the lower door.
, Perdition seize old Hartley and his mother !" exclaimed
O'Callaghan, petulantly :--" no, not the mother---the old soul is
"near ninety, and has a right to die sometime, as well as another,"
he added. "Well, I'll just see who it is for this once !"
"I bet it is some of those fellows in old Varick's office, out
on an infernal spree! said Fitzfulke. "Oh, durri your noise !"
The knocking recommenced with violence, and O'Callaghan
quickened his steps toward the stair.
Count Wissen here nudged the silent and shy young O'Morra,
directing his attention to the countenance of Dr. Mannikin,
which, in spite of an habitual self-command, changed its wonted
paleness to a color approaching parchment. Galenson's quick
eye caught the count's movement and observed its cause, and
he said-
"Why, doctor, do you expect the marble guest ?"
Meanwhile, O'Callaghan had opened the lower door. The
heavy tramp of men was then heard alongthe narrow passage
and slowly ascending the stairs; and presently appeared,
ushered in by O'Callaghan, two men, one white, the other a
negro, carrying with some difficulty a metallic burial-case,
covered with the richest black velvet, and adorned with handles,
caps aud inscription-plate of massive silver. They came forward
of India. This manuwas actually buried for six weeks, and on being
exhumed and stimulated by pungent applications, came to life
again. The experiment, however, was a dangerous One; for being
afterwards persuaded by a considerable sum of money to repeat it, to
gratify the curiosity of some English officers, the unfortunate wretch
could not be resuscitated : the vital spark, reduced to a feeble glim.
mer'by the action of the potent drug which he admitted to be em
ployed, had gone out entirely!

A.


24                     ROSEMARY.
in silence, and deposited their burden upon an unoccupied tab'o
in the centre of the apartment.
The students simultaneously stopped work. Such a mode of
bringing in a subject was too unusual not to excite the utmost
surprise. A coarse bag and naked body is the wonted style of
the resurrectionist, or " sack-em-up"-to use an expressive old
country term. It is naturally also from the lowest and /most
friendless and proscribed classes of society that materials are
commonly obtained for the studies of the anatomist; but here
it was plain that the grave of the rich, and even of the very -
rich-of Dives himself-had been rifled.

CHAPTER II
THE MARBLE BRIDE.
THE two men stood panting from their exertion, as reason
was they should, for the metallic cases are heavy, and this was
of the adult size, and octagon shape ; and the students regarded
them with curiosity and suspicion: it was evident to the least
practised glance that they were not professional resurrectionists.
Galenson had never seen them before, and he had been demon-
strator of anatomy for three years. O'Callaghan, in the fourth
winter of his studies, was equally unable to recognize them.
The white fellow was stout and thick set. He wore a large
slouched hat and a rough long-haired over-oat, that left no part
of his underdress visible, except a pair of tall boots, drawn over
his trowsers, and encasing a stout pair of legs. A small cold
blue eye, a nose pointed upwards, a sly and sensual mouth,
with indications of good feeding in the chin and cheek, bespoke
the lower order of the Saxon : his brown whiskers were trimmed
English fashion ; it was the face of a London footman, groom
or valet-a menial of some sort. He gazed round the com-
pany without any sign of recognition till his eye rested on the
quaker-like figure of Dr. Mannikin, when a slight start and
rush of b'ood to the face, indicated one equally unexpected
and unwelcome ; and he, as if involuntarily, touched his hat.
The negro was a dapper, light-colored fellow. His copious and
well-combed wool was surmounted with a paper cap, such as
is frequently worn by cooks, and notwithstanding the season
he wore no overcoat.
"We 'ad expected to find Mr. 'Artley," said the white resur-
rectionist, in a true Cockney accent.
"He is out," said Galenson, curtly.
"Ow werry hawkward, Jim !" said the fellow, addressing his
2


26                     ROSEMARY.
black companion. "In regard of this 'ere body w'ich we-'ave
fetch'd from Greenwood, I means, gentlemen."
"It's rather odd you did not leave the coffin behind," observed
Galenson, drily. " We have no use for that, you know."
I can heasily hexplain that little circumstance, doctor," re-
plied the sack-ern-up. " We couldn't hopen this 'ere bur'al case
for want of proper instruments, as when we 'ad took bout the
screws, we found as 'ow the hopper shell was soddered on to
the hunder, and it warn't possible to break the cement without
makin' too much noise : so we just took the 'ole concern-that
is 'ow it was, doctor."_
"An' a tarnal close shave we had getten off wid it, too, Massa
Johnson," said the negro: "it so tarnal heavy, sa
"I thought they took better precautions at Greenwood," said
Galenson, thoughtfully eying the sumptuous coffin.
"Oh, 'ang their precautions !" said Johnson: "we fetched this
'ere case through the gate hunder their heyes-didn't we, Jim ?"_
" P'raps de gemman like to buy dis body for 'section," sug-
gested the negro: "him was bur'd dis berry arternoon, doctor.
My stars ! what a long string of carriages foller dis ere corpse to
Greenwood!"
"That's a lie, I bet," remarked Fitzfulke, who had been ex-
amining the inscription-plate. "The plate says the subject died
a week ago! You shouldn't have brought the coffin, if you
wanted us to believe such chaffing as that."
"Taint no lie, massa," replied the negro, mildly. "Dis 'ere
corpse kep so uncommon well dat dey nebber bury him till dis
arternoon. De doctors can open de case an' see for demselves
wat ex'lent preserwation de subjek is in. A mighty purty young
lady, too !"
"By George ! a subject of this description does not offer every
day in the year !" cried Fitzfulke, exultingly.
"Dry up, Fitz !" said O'Callaghan, in a wrathful under tone.
"What sort of notion you must have of the designs of Provi-
dence!"S
But Dr. Mannikin, who had approached and ptood with his
white-gloved hand resting delicately on the velvet pall, now
spoke, in his blandest manner

THE MARBLE BRIDE.           27

" I came here this evening to treat with Mr. Hartley for a sub-
ject, and from what you say, Mr. Johnson, this would suit
me. What will you take for it, burial-case and all. just as it
stands?"
The man touched his hat and grinned.
"Couldn't sell the case, nor the clothes, no how, doctor."
" Why, what can you do with them better than to sell them,
my friend ?" asked the doctor.
"That's hour business, doctor, not your'n," replied the fellow,
with another grin.
"Well, never mind the case," said Dr. Mannikin. "You
shall have the case, and everything else you choose"-with a
meaning emphasis: "I only want the body-what will you take
for it ?-name your price."
The negro whispered in his comrade's ear-but Dr. Galenson
here interposed.
"Excuse me, doctor," said the young physician, politely but
firmly. "You appear not to be acquainted with one of the
rules of the college in this department, which, as Demonstrator
of Anatomy, I am obliged to enforce. No subject which has
once been brought here is allowed to be taken hence, unless by
the janitor for sepulture ; and although you might be allowed to
join a class already formed (with the consent of the members),
you could not expect otherwise to get a subject under a month,
from the number of classes now on the list and entitled to a
preference. I shall of course buy the present subject of these
men, at the regular price, neither more nor less, but it will have
to go to the first class on the list and unsupplied."
Dr. Mannikin's pale cheek flushed and grew pale again, al-
ternately, as Galenson proceeded : "Really, Dr. Galenson !" said
he, in tones that trembled with anger, "this is discourteous.
My professional rank will, I hope, justify a departure from mere
formal rules in my favor."
"I have every disposition in the world to gratify you, doctor,"
replied Galenson, with extreme suavity, "but if we break our
rules for onewe must for ,another, and I have no authority to
do it. Your course is to apply to the Professor of Anatomy


THE MARBLE BRIDE.            29

--if he says you can have the subject, I shall have nothing to
say."
"Besides, doctor," said the man Johnson, to whom the negro
had been again earnestly whispering--" we prefers, Jim and
me, to let the doctors of the college 'ave the subjik. Should
hany hinquiries be made in regard of the disappearance of the
same, do yur see, 'ere there would be no traces, cos why ? there
is so many others. An' I would hadvise, gentlemen, to begin
with the face, so as it can't be recognized by nobody."
"Infernal scoundrel !" muttered Dr. Mannikin.
Dr. Galenson, meanwhile, took out his pocket-book, and.
handing the man Johnson the usual resurrectionist's fee, said--
" Let us open the case, that these fellows may take it away
immediately: for certainly we do not want it here. Do you
know how to manage these machines, O'Callaghan ."
"Do I know how ' replied that gentleman, working out the
massive silver-headed screws with his fingers, so rapidly that
Fitzfulke, who was unscrewing the silver cap or head-piece,
barely succeeded in doing it before his active fellow-student had
all the other screws in his hand. The cap being raised, a thick
but clear oval glass, like a plate of crystal, allowed the face
of the corpse to be seen.-
"My God !" cried Fitzfulke : "what a beautiful face !"
A simultaneous movement of curiosity impelled the young
men to look in. All started at beholding a countenance so
natural that it seemed living, and all encadrde with flowers and
lace and soft curls, like a waxen beauty, on which the bright
gas-light fell. Dr. Mannikin interposed again.
"Gentlemen, you will pardon me for saying once more that
this thing ought to go no further. You will not deny my right
to protest, when I tell you that this young person was known
to me."
"A patient, doctor ?" asked Galenson, smiling.
"Not my patient," replied the physician, quickly ; "but I
know the family well, and attended the funeral to-day.".
"Indeed !" said Dr. Galenson.
This announcement again vividly excited the curiosity of the
students. They all, together with the stately count, bent their

heads over the plate to read the inscription, which Fitzfulke now
read aloud:--
OB. III NON. FEB. MDCCCL-
AET. XVIII.
"There is no family name on the plate," observed Count
Wissen.
The cement with which the upper and lower shells of the
case were almost welded together, now yielded to a single well-
directed blow of O'Callaghan's hammer. The removal of the
lid caused a fresh surprise, for it was then fully seen that the cos.
tume (for the body was dressed as in life) was that of a bride.
A robe of white moire antique, enriched with deep flounces of
point lace, was no sooner released from the compression of the
lid, than it flowed im great folds on either side ; a veil of the
same costly lace almost entirely shrouded the upper part of the
figure, while a wreath of white jessamine with long delicate
green sprays, and bouquets of the same on the bosom and skirt,
nestling among the lace, made a whole so festive, so fresh, so
elegant, that the young men drew back and gazed in silent
admiration and awe, But what was really extraordinary, and
soon riveted their attention, even the rich jewels of the bride
had not been removed. A magnificent necklace of pearls
clasped the marble throat, a chain of brooches of the same,
looped together by strings of seed-pearl, served as buttons to the
square-cut antique corsage, and earrings and a bracelet, complet-
ing the set, attested both the wealth and the frantic despair of a
father or a husband.--And perhaps the beauty of the de-
ceased deserved so rich a burial. It was a face, even in the rig-
idity of death, singularly noble and beautiful; whiter than snout
the perfect features, carved lip and nostril, closed eye deep-lid-
ded, smooth brow and oval cheek, set in dark flowing tresses,
and crowned with jessamine ; the gorge, as if turned in ivory;
the large pearl-white arms-the hands were gloved and tied to-
gether with white satin ribbon.
The students looked to Dr. Mannikin for an explanation of
this extraordinary case.

28                ROSEMAE Y.


THE MARBLE BRIDE.

" She was an only child-her family immensely rich-and
died, as you see, on her wedding-night, before the very altar.
They buried her in her bridal array-by her own desire," said
that gentleman, in brief, curt tones.
"All dese tings," observed the negro, "'longs to me and .
Massa Johnson."
"Hof course they does-w'at be you a-talking about, Jim ?"
said his companion.
"One begins to understand the motive of this body-snatching
extraordinary," remarked Galenson.
"It is pretty well understood already," said the count, "but
it is robbery after all."
"What will we do about it l" asked O'Callag  , with great
seriousness,r
"Do ?" repeated Galenson. "We take the body, of course,
and these men the case, clothes and jewels-and a pretty good
thing they've made of it too.-I wonder what was the cause
of death."
The medical enthusiast was already touching the wrist of the
corpse, as if to satisfy himself by more senses than one that life
was really departed.
"The cause of death, doctor!" said O'Callaghan. "Undoubt-
edly we will ascertain that in the interests of science-but
then?"
"You mean to say, Mr. O'Callaghan ?"
"That although the body of this young lady has fallen into
our hands by the legitimate chances of the profession, it ought
y        not to be profaned by the last scrutiny of the scalpel."
=. "Hanged if I see why not," said Fitzfulke, rather coarsely.
"After a legitimate autopsy," pursued O'Callaghan, "we
should restore the remains to their resting-place, which has
been violated by what we must regard as a fortunate sacrilege."
"But how," said Galenson. "It is not so easy to effect an
interment secretly. You may rob a grave with impunity, but to
fil one, except by forms of law or in regular practice,-it is
dangerous !"
But the man Johnson, who with his colored comrade, had
shown various signs of impatience dn   this colloquy, now

attempted to' push his way violently through the ring of stu-
dents that closely surrounded the table where the coffin with
its brilliant contents lay.
" Hif you please, gents ! We wishes to remove hour property
now. Young gentleman !" addressing O'Morra, "please stand on
one side, and let me get to this 'ere coffin."
The youth turned quick as lightning and threw him off. The
rest stared.
"Why, Rory ! what's tne matter, man'?" cried Fitzfulke.
"Gentlemen," said Rory O'Morra, "of course I agree with
my friend Mr. O'Callaghan, that to dissect the body of a virtuous
and beautiful young lady which has fallen into our hands through
an infamous crime, is out of the question. To allow it to be
stripped of its attire or ornaments by these rascals appears to
me equally impossible. They are a pair of common thieves, and
so sure as they offer to lay a finger on a single article, I will
have them arrested."
"You will-will you ?" cried Johnson, white with rage. Then
swearing a great oath, he-drew forth a formidable knife from
under his great coat,-" we'll see to that !"
"Cut-throat! I thought as much !" said the shy O'Morra,
without the slightest symptom of fear.
There were loud cries of "Put up your knife !"-" Seize hold
of the rascal !"-" Put away thy knife, Enoch Johnson-dpu
away thy knife !" quoth Dr. Ezekiel Mannikin, lifting both his
hands. But in the twinkling of an eye young O'Morra drew
back a step, took down a cane that lay across the pegs on which'
the students' coats and overcoats were suspended, and in far less
time than-it takes to tell it, had bared a long, slender, triangu-
lar blade of blue steel which it concealed.
"I'll make a subject of you, you rascally cockney," cried
Rory, impetuously, "and dissect you afterwards with the great-
est pleasure-come on!"
The fellow, who was brandishing his knife very savagely, re-
coiled. The idea suggested by O'Morra was unpalatable. Sup
posing his life taken in a hasty fray, nothing more easy for a
medical student than to dispose of the body, and the world be
never the wiser. And the lad, like all boys, when his blood was

./

30

ROSEMARY.

31


THE MARBLE BRIDE.            33

82                ROSEMARY.

up, was capable of anything, and the rest, recovering from their
momentary alarm, looked on now very quietly while their young
comrade, standing in a fencing position, handled his dangerous
weapon with a facility that practice alone could give, and the
point played ominously sure towards the most vital point of the
body-snatcher's physique.
" Who would have thought it !" cried Galenson, laughing.
"Mr. Johnson-Mr. Johnson-be advised-put up your tool, or
my friend O'Morra-the best fencer in New York and all at
home in his anatomy-will prick your left ventricle and you'll
be a dead man before you know it."
"IHooray !" cried O'Callaghan, cutting a caper in his joy.
"That's the blood of the O'Morras sure. The boy is no spooney
for all, though he does dissect in gloves. Pink him, Rory !"
Johnson, followed by O'Morra, had retreated to the wall, and
then threw away his knife in abject submission.
"The cowardly blackguard !" ejaculated O'Callaghan, at
whose feet it fell, picking it up: "Why, see what a knife it is
--a regular bowie-with an edge like a razor !-.Fenum habet in
cornu-a dangerous villain ! No doubt but he was prepared to
commit murder with this if necessary."
Even Johnson's black accomplice broke out against him at
this last proof of cowardice.
" Sarve you right, you raskie, for goin' to stab de young gem-
man-oh what a blunderbuss you be !"
"Old your blasted tongue, you black pisoner !" returned the
other with fury. "Speak hanother word an' I'll 'ave you
'anged as 'igh as 'Aman !"
"If de young gemman was to spit you like a fat rabbit, he be
doin' a debblish good turn," retorted the negro. j" Wy don't
you try to pacify de gemmen, you fool '? Dat's de way to git
what you want."
"Thee would do well to listen to his counsel," said Dr. Man-
nikin, who had continued to be much agitated during this scene.
Having been bred a Quaker, the worthy doctor spoke the
plain language when excited,-as an angry Englishman drops his
" h's" under similar circumstances.
Johnbon himself, now composed in manner, but white with

suppressed fury, changed his tone of voice from ferocious
bluster to an artificial whine.
" Gentlemen," said he, submissively, "I 'umbly beg pardon for
my violence. Don't cheat me of my poor little adwantages
hin this hunfortinate haffair !-Indeed, it's w'at I'm hentitled to,
gentlemen !-On my knees, gentlemen !--I leave it to your
honors !-I 'ave risked my place and bein' transported for
them little things-taynt for nothin' that a party in my sitiwa-
tion hopens a fam'ly wault-I was honly a hagent in that busi-
ness, gentlemen-doctors and gentlemen !-Dr. Mannikin ! I
hexpects that you will hintercede for me-I knows wat I knows,
Dr. Mannikin !"
"Gib us de jewel, mas'r!" said the negro, insinuatingly ;
" and keep de clo'se for to bury young missis w'en de doctors
hab done wid her."
" You won't hinjure nobody by so doin'; not a 'aypenny,"
pursued Johnson, piteously. "The .fam'ly have throwed the
things away, and the dead don't want 'em sartainly."
"All your entreaties are useless, as much as your threats,"
said young O'Morra, who stood by the burial-case with his wea-
pon bared, and listening with an air half of heroism and half of
contempt.--" You have been paid for the subject, my men--so
be off, and thank your stars that for the felony you meditated
you escape a prison."
"Five years in a state-prison and a fine of one hundred dol-
lars is he law," observed O'Callaghan :--" that's for opening any
place of interment to remove the body for dissection, or to steal
the clothes or anything else appertaining to the departed-see
the Revised Statutes !"
"Mr. O'Morra is right, after all," said the count, in his grave
foreign manner. "We cannot make ourselves participes crim-
mnis in this attempt at robbery. It is our duty to return these
valuable articles to their owners."
"Oh, not to the family, gentlemen-hanything but that !"
exclaimed Johnson in an accent of real terror.
"They can be returned through me, without compromising
thee at all," said Dr. Mannikin, with his death's-head smile,
and infinitely pallid.


84                ROSEMARY.

"Oh, yes," said the humbled villain, " that will do. Dr.
Mannikin knows the fam'ly well. Doctor, I'm werry sorry---
" No doubt! no doubt !" interrupted the doctor hastily-" of
course you are sorry for what has occurred, Johnson. But thee
bad better go now. I will see that a proper disposition is made
of these articles without the slightest suspicion attaching to
thee"-with emphasis, and hurrying him off
"We'll go, doctor-come along, Jim-all right, I say, Jim.
Dr. Mannikin-a word with you below, hifyou please."
O'Callaghan with some ceremony returned him the knife,
which Johnson replaced carefully under his overcoat, and then
paused a moment at the door---
"I'll be heven with you for this some day, gents! An' as
for you, young man !"-fixing a look of hate on O'Morra-" I
shall know you hanother time-that's the 'ole of it."
"All right !" said Rory, boyishly, putting up the sword-cane
in its place.
A little hubbub of congratulations greeted the shy youth,
who only blushed. The count set the example of shaking hands
with him.
" Psha ! I am not a hero at all. Why you know I fainted in
the theatre the other day at the amputation of a thumb."
" I'faith, Rory," said O'Callaghan, laughing, "your stomach is
'wake,' as the Irishman said, but your heart is as bold as a
lion."
" Now see here, fellows," observed Fitzfulke, " did you notice
that old Mannikin followed those scoundrels down stairs ?
While they are having a confab below, let us lock both doors on
the learned doctor, and well not open them again till the auk:
topsy is finished."
-This was agreed to without a dissenting voice, the count deo-
ciding to stay with the rest. The measure was hardly' put in
execution before Dr. Mannikin returned from his conference
and thundered for admission at the lower door ; but as the stu-
dents paid no attention, the toxicologis, after docking vio-
lently for some time and shouting himself hoarse, retired.
Meanwhile the students and Galenson held a rapid consulta-
tion. O'Callaghan brought from a drawer a coarse clean sheet,

THE MARBLE BRIDE.                   85
which he spread upon the table under the burial-case, while the
latter was raised for that purpose by his companions. O'Cal-
laghan, though not holding like Dr. Galensonan official position,
being an undergraduate, yet from his advanced standing and
general proficiency as a student, acted, as we have se  a
sort of aid to their preceptor. The   oun e     sen, as a
hands, and  'Ca- Thehayoung Wmen washed thei*
hands, and O'Callaghan turned down the gas over the table
where they had been previously occupied, while the light oftwo
powerful burners flooded theladazof t-
he dazzling figure of the dead bride
around which they now gathered.


CHAPTER III.
GALENSON'S LECTURE--THE AUTOPSY.
"THIs young person is reported to have died suddenly," said
Galenson, with a gravity becoming the first clinical lecturer of
the day, and which contrasted strongly with his usual sardonic
levity. "She is reported to have died suddenly, in the midst of
a nuptial festivity, of which the interest was concentred in her,
and yet there has been no post-mortem. You will ask me how
I know this without removing the garments, and in the absence
of positive testimony. I answer that a post-mortem could not
take place without decomposition of the exposed tissues and
fluids, a decomposition which on opening the coffin eight days
after death would at once be apparent to the senses. Now when
the upper shell of this case was removed some moments ago,
there was a slight fragrance, as of some delicate perfume im-
pregnating the apparel of the deceased, and that was all. More-
over, on the exposed portions of the body we do not discover
the faintest discoloration. The surface is blanched, but spotless
as a snow-drift. All this is very remarkable, especially as the
only positive unequivocal sign of death, is, as you know, the
commencement of decomposition: and the absence thus far of
this sign imposes on us the necessity of proceeding with the
utmost caution."
There was a slight murmur of approbation from the students.
"There is no negative sign of death which may not be sim-
ulated," continued Galenson :-"pulsation, respiration, sensibili-
ty, consciousness, may be entirely suspended even .for many
days, as happens sometimes in trance, or for a briefer period by
the agency of electricity, from suffocation in drowning, and per-
haps from other causes. But as long as a cause is present which
arrests the chemical law that incessantly tends to decompose all
organic matters, whether animal or vegetable, so long there is

GALENSON'S LECTURE---.THE AUTOPSY.         37
life, and the functions, though suspended, may be restored.
Hence, if the medical men in attendance, whoever they were,
permitted this body to be interred before they had ascertained
positively the commencement of decomposition somewhere they
were guilty of the grossest and most criminal negligence. And
yet, not only has no post-mortem taken place-certainly not--
but, unless I am greatly deceived, the body has not even been
undressed. I have had some experience in mortuary matters,
gentlemen, and I do not believe it would be possible to dress a
corpse with such faultless nicety."
"I think not," observed Count Wissen. "In fact, if one
could suppose this lady alive, she might step right into a ball-
room in that finished toilette, without stopping to adjust a
flower or a ribbon."
"I am glad to be confirmed in my opinion by an authority
so unexceptionable. Here, then, we are confronted on the very
threshold of our inquiry, gentlemen, with mysterious facts
which impose upon us the utmost delicacy of attention, extend-
ing to the minutest circumstances. Nor does the mystery
cease here :-for even the costly personal ornaments of the de-
ceased have not been removed, a fact almost inconceivable, but
which we have no reason to regret : for scarcely has the body
been interred when a cupidity that ought to have been foreseen
has caused it to be exhumed for the evident purpose of plunder.
By what means the parties to this outrage succeeded in de-
feating the precau ions by which our principal cemetery is
guarded from violation, does not appear. Their bringing the
body hero; after they had managed to carry it off, is easily ac-
counted for by the difficulty in disposing of it otherwise, and by
their expectation that in this place all trace of their crime
would speedily disappear. Had not Mr. Hartley been absent,
or had we not availed ourselves of his absence to prolong our
labors beyond the usual hour of locking up, this scheme would
probably have succeeded. I agree with my young friend
O'Morra that it becomes us to treat these remains, the object of
so much tenderness to the survivors, with all imaginable res-
pect, and to return them, if possible, unmutilated to their
original resting place ; but at the same time it is our duty to


GALENSON9S LECTURE-THEj AUTOPSY.

seize the opportunity providentially afforded us, of elucidating
the mystery and perhaps of bringing to light a crime.-
" That's the way to talk," said Fitzfulke, caressing a mus-
tache that curled over his protuberant upper lip-for he had
ceased smoking.
"I don't object to an investigation," said O'Morra.
"It is our duty," said O'Callaghan.  -
" We all agree to it, doctor," said the count.
Young O'Morra, at Galenson's request, quietly untied the rib-
bon which confined the two wrists together, and the arms
dropped lifeless at the side. There was a print of the ribbon
on the back of each wrist, but no discoloration. Then at a sign
from Galenson, O'Morra removed the large artificial bouquet of
white jessamine-so exquisitely wrought by French hands that
you might have taken it for the natural flowers-from the bosom
of the dress, and detached the chain of pearl brooches which so
magnificently fastened its antiquely fashioned corsage or jacket,
reviving a picturesque and stately costume of the middle ages,
often seen in old illuminated books. But here the youth's labor
-       was abridged, for beneath this rich exterior garment was noth-
ing but a loose and singularly simple dress of almost snow-white
woollen, undulating over the bosom as if a sculptor had modelled
it in marble, and in the folds of which lay a large gold medal
hung in a white ribbon.
" She was a Catholic !" whispered O'Callaghan.
The other young men were, so to speak, doubly silent. O'Morra
looked up as if to-ask what next, and Galenson waved his hand
to indicate that nothing further was yet necessary.
"Before we proceed to seek the one positive sign of death,"
continued the latter, resuming the deep monotone of his cli-
nique, "let us ascertain if the positive signs of life are absent.
Is there any pulse 7"
The young physician once more applied his fingers first to
one wrist, then to the other. No sign of life there at all events.
He touched the carotid, or great artery of the throat, which
supplied the seat of intelligence with the aliment of vitality.
Galenson's heavy lips parted, and his massive face assumed an
expression of almost ludicrous solemnity.

" Mr. O'Morra," said he at last in a low voice, "please to lay
your hand on the heart of the subject."
Some moments elapsed. The white and shapely hand of the
young sculptor, softly laid upon the deceased, over the woollen
robe, drew all eyes. A blush came and went on his girl-like
cheek. At length he slowly withdrew his hand, and looked up
rather pale and evidently excited.
" Well?" said Galenson.
" I perceive no pulsation, Dr. Galenson, but there is warmth."
" Warmth without pulsation signifies nothing," returned Ga-
lenson, with disappointment. "Yet he said 'warmth,' and 'in
the region of the heart.'" He mused, then drew forth from his
pocket a small cedar stethoscope. "Heat," he added, looking
round the class, "is a chemical phenomenon, not a vital one."
Galenson applied his instrument, as young O'Morra had ap-
plied his hand, over the under-dress, and his ear to the instru-
ment. Motionless, still, Ly the body in its glistering robe and
starry veil. The perfect features remained in their unutterable
tranquillity-their blanched and fixed repose. The anxiety of
the students was now evidently at its highest pitch, but mingled
with confidence: for Galenson was reputed one of the best aus-
cultators in the city. His ear was infallible. Long and pa-
tiently he listened. Strange expressions flitted over his grand
scientific face, as if he had been a master of music listening to
a melody inaudible to the rest of mankind. At last he with-
drew his ear from the almost intelligent instrument, and re-
moving the latter from the side, where it left a distinguishable
impress en on the soft and snowy woollen, said in a low voice
but deliberate and emphatic-.
. 'THE GIRL IS ALIVE !"

88

ROSEMARY.

8 9


VARIOUS PROPOSITIONS.        41

CHAPTER IV.
"If this be sleep, how soft ! if death, bow fair!
Much have my books disclosed, but the end inceof the Water Lily
" ALIVE ! Impossible !"
"The heart beats at all events !" said Galenson.
Notwithstanding the ~faintest suspicion of the truth possibly
entertained by all, every one was immeasurably astonished by
the actual announcement.
" During the whole time that I listened at the heart," said
Galenson, "there were but two beats-the first so faint that I
thought I might be mistaken ; the second was unequivocal."
Meanwhile no time was lost in administering appropriate
remedies. The skill and resources of the operators were too
great to admit a doubt of the ultimate result, yet an hour passed
before there was any perceptible sign of success. What a
moment of triumph when a small mirror held before the lips
became dim! A sigh-a convulsion-respiration re-establishing
itself with laborious effort ! The limbs shudder as in epilepsy,
the eyes open, but the balls roll masterless. Even Galenson
was deeply agitated. Gradually this paroxysm passed off, the
eye softened, became intelligent and expressive, consciousness
had returned--the maiden sprang up, gazed wildly round her,
screamed with a look full of terror, and sank slowly back in a
swoon.
"We must remove her instantly from this horrible place," said
O'Morra.
"Of course !" hissed Fitzfulke. "It is enough to frighten any
young woman to death, to find herself here." .
There were as many plans as persons. The count suggested
a hotel. O'Callaghan recommended the Sisters' Hospital, which
was not many streets distant.

Galenson, being visiting physician of the City Hospital, pro-
posed taking her directly there, anticipating perhaps glorious
opportunities of observation and clinique. Fitzfulke con-
founded all hospitals right and left, as utterly unsuitable places
for a young lady of good family, and advised that she should
be taken home at once, forgetting that they were all ignorant of
her family name.
The.hotel proposition was ruled out, considering the difficulty of
obtaining admission and suitable accommodation for an unknown
stranger in a dying condition, the defective attendance, and
absence of suitable female care ; and while Fitzfulke went to
call a carriage and Galenson and O'Callaghan disputed on the
rival claims of their hospitals, O'Morra made a suggestion dif-
ferent from all the rest and which at first gained no favor.
It was to convey the lady to his own boarding-house on
Brooklyn heights, a quiet, respectable place, where she would
have pure air and every comfort of a private family.
"Too far !" said Galenson, decidedly. "The girl is hardly
-fit to be moved at all."
"If we find that it is too much for her, we can stop at the
City Hospital-it is on the way," said the adroit O'Morra.
"That's true," said Galenson-" well I think yours a very
good idea, O'Mor'ra."
"But can she be accommodated '?" asked the count, who
was O'Morra's fellow-boarder. "Is there a vacant room, Mr.
Rory'?"
"I will vacate mine-I can sleep on the sofa in the governor's
park r," said Rory.
" You're a' trump, Rory !" said Galenson.
"MIr., Rory has excellent inspirations," said the count.-" I
find that next best to a hotel--but I fear the distance."
"There are first-class hotels the whole way," said Rory, "if
she is found not to bear it."
"The Sisters of Charity are the best nurses in the world, and
close at hand," insisted O'Callaghan:--" what will you gain by
carrying her all the way to Brooklyn '"
"The air is so pure, and the neighborhood so quiet," said


ROSEMARY.

Rory ; "and then Miss Tankerville--who is a Catholic too-will
take such excellent care
"Ah! Miss Tankerville will take such excellent care !"
repeated the count, laughing.s
If it is a Catholic family, I withdrawv my objections," said
O'Callaghan: "but at the city hospital they would let her die
without a priest-that's why !"c.d..
Fitzfulke returned with the carriage to find the point decided
in favor of O'Morra's proposition. Shy and sly O'Morra ! With
all his innocence he contrives to wind them all round his little
finger.
"Fellows," said Fitzfulke, "how do you think I found ,a
carriage so quick at this time of night ? Why, there's a thun-
dering big party in the next block, and the street is chock full
of carriages. I hired a fellow with a long six-seat rockaway,
who was waiting to take his chance. -And who do you think I
saw on the box of a grand family coach drawn up in line ? Who
but our friend Johnson, swearing at his horses as if all the
fiends from below were inside of him !"
The lower shell of the burial case served as a litter for their
patient, the silver handles made, it very convenient, and four
of the young men carried it without the slightest difficulty down
the broad stair of the college. Galenson pointed out the pru-
dence of removing the upper shell at the same time.
"Should the disappearance of this young person's remains,"
he observed, "be discovered, and it should get rumored abroad
that a part of the burial-case had been seen in the college, the
mob would. tear down the building."
Appreciating this reflection, while the insensible girl was
placed without difficulty in the roomy carriage, the litter lying
diagonally across. so that the head and foot were supported on
the low elbow cushions, by the Count and O'Morra, O'Callaghan
enveloped the upper shell in the sheet before mentioned, and
got on the front or driver's seat with it.
"Is that a boat now, or a bath-tub ?" asked the driver.
"It is old Charon's life-boat," answered the witty Irishman.
"Sure it's shaped like a boat," said the unsuspicious jarvey ;
" but isn't it too small to float any size of man at all '"

A SHADOWY AFFAIR.                   43
" Why, look you-it has saved the life of the young woman
inside this very night !" said O'Callaghan.
"Is that a fact? Well, now ! An' where will I drive you,
bos ?"
"To the Wall street ferry, as fast as you can."
As the rockaway turned the corner swiftly, to go down
town, a superb equipage from the big party dashed by, and
O'Callaghan, twisting round, cried out to the party inside,.......
"Boys! there goes that rascally Johnson, and if that sly old
Mannikin isn't inside, drab cloak and, all!I-what do you think
of that?"
The count hummed a military air.
Dr. Galenson took the opportunity to impress upon his com-
panions inside the importance and necessity of an inviolable
secrecy in regard to all that had occurred. He pointed out that
the safety as well as honor of a medical institution were involved
in this sort of discretion.--
"The justice of the doctor's remarks is obvious," said the
count. Unless I ani deceived, gentlemen, we have here a
shadowy affair, and we ought to be on our guard."
"Above all," said Galenson, "if any of us chance. to
meet Dr. Mannikin, not a syllable to hm of this surprising re-
suscitation-- do you understand ?"
"Miss Tankerville is Dr. Mannikin's cousin," remarked,
O'Morra, but as they don't speak, that makes no difference."
All arranges itself marvellously," said the count.
"Will not the doctor ask about the jewels 2'' inquired
O'tMorra1 as a lamp flashed in upon the necklace and bracelet
of their insensible charge.
"Refer him to me--I can stop his questions," said Dr
Galenson.                             usins"si        r
"Now see here, fellows," cried Fitzfulke, as if a sudden light
hadetroken upon him: "do you know I think Mannikin had
something to do with this girl's being buried alive? What in
ther did he come marching up into the dissecting-room, to
see old Hartley for, at that time o' night? lHe's not such an
 lenthusia  o the subject of anatomy, that ever I heard
of I"


MISS TANKERVILLL-

"You're a lucky fellow at finding mare's nests, Fitz," said
Galenson.
The carriage glided smoothly and rapidly down the deserted
and well-paved thoroughfare. A light fall of snow rendered the
passage still more smooth and silent. Galenson, who jealously
watched his patient's pulse, perceived that so far from suffering
by the removal, she was like to benefit by it. At night, when
the glare of the shop windows has entirely disappeared, when
the carriage-way is deserted even by the omnibuses, and the
side-walks offer only an occasional straggler of the male sex,
and the masses of the buildings, many-storied and vast, their
architecture lost in the gloom, show only a black outline against
the sky, or glitter else in the moonlight with their piles of white.
marble,-Broadway is poetical. Galenson sighed as they'passed
the hospital, but he could make no excuse for stopping. In-.
deed, when the lamps of the ferry-house shone into the carriage,
and the horses' hoofs resounded over the swing-bridge, O'Morra-
became aware that his burthen was a conscious one. True, the
form lay motionless in its narrow and unyielding bed, but a
pair of extraordinary large dark eyes looked up at him. The
air was sharp on the river, which was full of floating ice, and
the great moon looked do .vn upon it in all her wintry splendor.
The large dark eyes turned towards the brilliant scene.
"Those bloody scoundrels must have brought her from Green-
wood just as you are carrying her now," observed Fitzfulke;
"for she is too tall to lie out straight any other way in the big-
gest carriage, and these confounded cases won't bend, no how
you can fix it."
"Five feet and six inches, I judge, may be the height of ma-
demoiselle," observed the military Wissen ; "which is a fair
height for a woman."
"Gentlemen," said Galenson, "our patient's pulse indicates
that reaction is setting in pretty strongly."
The boat sped across the illuminated river, crashed through a
drift of ice, then swept with the usual superb mastery for which
the New York ferry-boats are unrivalled in the world, into her
berth on the Brooklyn side. The slight concussion as she hit
the bridge, and start of the horses, elicited inside the carriage

a faint feminine exclamation that thrilled every heart-the more
as it was succeeded by perfect silence.
The carriage rolled up the steep ascent of Montague street
and gained the heights. Guided by O'Callaghan, who knew
the house, it rolled presently into a court-yard and drew up be-
fore the door of a somewhat imposing mansion standing in the
midst of a garden, and overlooking the magnificent bay.
O'Morra's night-key procured instant admission, and without
any, delay the form of the "lately-decease"...-5  O'Callaghan
wittily termed her--was conveyed to, his room.. At the first
effort to remove her from the carriage the maiden murmured
something, and put one sandaled foot, one jewelled arm, outside
her hard litter; but as the young men bore her on, taking no
notice, resigned herself "passive to all changes."
The reader will please to imagine the astonishment of a Miss
Tankerville--the name itself breathes of maiden respectabilit-.
mistress of a highly respectable, more than respectable board-
ing-house on Brooklyn heights-elevated position if there is one
n this world !-on being waked from her first sleep in the small
hours of the night, by a young medical student (or artist rather)
one of her boarders, announcing.-
"Miss Tankerville ! I want you, if you please! There's a
young lady in my room."
Astonishment is too feeble a word !
"A young lady in your room! ,Goodness, Mr. Forrester!
ow dared you, sir"? And what puts it in your head to come
tell me of it, if you dared ?"---The door is hardly ajar.
"It is not Forrester--it is O'Morra !"
"Goodness, Mr. O'Morra !" cries the lady--opening the door
considerably wider. "I thought, to be sure, it was that horrid
BillForse-tiwaththrd
Forrester-it would have been just like him. A youn
y in your room! did I hear you right, Mr. Rory'?"
"It is a dreadful mystery, my dear Miss Tankerville-- p
the greatest confidence in you, you know  We  a-W yput
undress her and put her to bed."
Is he tight, I wonder'?" exclaimed the bewildered spinster,
"We have saved her life-do you understand'? That is, Dr.
,er

4

(

44

ROSEMARY.

45


46

GREENWOOD.

ROSEMARY.

Galenson has. And you must come immediately, for we are
afraid she will die !" said Rory, impatiently. -D
"Oh ! I understand now !" said Miss Tankerville. Is Dr.
Galenson here    shutting the door in his face. "Well, I'll
oome immediately,"-opemng it a very little-" as soon as I can
throw on my clothes."pesnohr
thr Tankerville was an energetic and sensible person-other-
. -  probable, she would not have conducted a large and
uccesfu boardinghousein so prominent a situation as Brook-
lyn heights. She soon entered young O' Morra's room, accom-
panied by an Irish maiden bearing clean sheets, pillow-cases,
an   e    articles suitable to the emergency. The stranger,
ain   no nrio s e or  apparently  so, lay  on  the  sofa, "diffused
again unconsciousorapen         ,
like snow."                             h        ld   a
" Goodness !" cried Miss Tankervile-"the young lady has
been taken ill at a ball! Who is she, doctor ? My goodness !
what a lovely dress !"
It was of importance to conciliate Miss Tankervilleso
interest and at the same time engage her secrecy. Dr. Galenson
peered at her sagaciously over his gold-rimmed spectacles,
which gave him, though a young man, an appearance of won
derful gravity.
" Miss Tankerville," said he,  wehv    toutpre,
Count Wissen and myself, to confide to your well-known discre-
tion a case that requires a great deal of that quality. At pre-
sent,a ce tservethis youngperson can give no account of
herself, and we can give no account of her, except that her
name is Rose-Rose Marie---is it not, count ? Marie is perhaps
a surname."
"Marie, perhaps-I know afamily of that name," said Miss
Tankei Vyule.
"eryvlikely-very likely : Americans often omit the accent
of the French '6;' and we know the name only by-her
card."
"Exactly-I understand, doctor," said Miss Tankervile.
"She was taken ill at Mrs. Oleander's party, I suppose, count ?"
-glancing at that gentleman's evening costume, of which we
have already spoken.

"At least I can assure you that she is a young lady of unex..
ceptionahe character and connections," said the count
ntly" said Miss Tankerville, who hardly took h
off the superb dress of the stranger-o"hA bride  t  er eyes
course! Well! shall I take charge of Miss            '
tlemen ?"eMari, now, gen-
"Miss Tankerville, you are an angel !" said th
"Upon my word, doctor," he added as the          e do nt,
tether,'thsis an evilfotu    atetey went dowvn stairs
togthe, tl~5 i more fortunate turn than we could have
expected. Miss Tankerville behaved admial.      elyti
is one of the most singular adventures of my life."
The young person thus wonderfully recovered from death
was, indeed, now in safe and unexceptionable hands. Io
remained to dispose of the burial-casetiche Misanktonly
had not seen. When Galenson O'    ra and thMiss Tankerville
the parlor, they found that O'Callaghan and Fitzfulke had
sreo-ed, iete the upper and lower shells, and the whole now
repo-ed, in all its funeral dignity of silerscew had lcel-o
vet, on Miss Tanlkervill        el-ver screws and black vel-
vt, do iss iTankerlle's dining-table. The question was what
to (lo0'with it.                                   swa
"Tha vtewe itake it    ack to Greenwood," said Fitzfulke.
"htswee it belongs, I vow,""
This proposition  ngst ytwe
areedha r  n       e popular sentiment exactly. It was
aghed that Dr. Galenson, who knew the keeper of the  tery
shud go in the carriagea                 fte cemetery
shoud g in he  arrige acompanied by the two medical stu-
dents, Fitzfulke and O'Callaghair  drive' at   metly
Callaghan pacified him by ra    t   l
The glass face, an showing him that the case was an empty one.
To e bief th gate keeper received the article withotbec
tion-ut       gato ekedcdan       vut objc-
to ive utatnise   perplexed and even alarmed, he refused
ongie  information in regard to the family to whom it be-
ed            a   oen on the city before the young men
regained their several homes



47


THE CONSULTATION.          49

CHAPTER V.
THE CONSULTATION.
THERE'S many a slip  -.  The life of the mysterious stranger
began to be in danger from the moment it seemed to be saved.
It was evident from the first that her mode of existence was
still unnatural. Consciousness was restored, muscular power
was not wanting, yet certain functions appeared to be suspended.
astrantgr could seak,she had uttered on several occasions
The strange oud  sp e      d   but days and days passed
articulate sr pronouncing a single sentence, or answering a single
question that was put to her. She would take no solid food,
n erytseldom and sparingly that which Miss Tankerville pre-
aed fver sd  liquid form. During the twenty-four hours
sfherly slt lmdore than two-usually a little after dawn.
she scarcely slept moethntw     attendant approached the
At whatever hour of the night her atnatapoce          h
couch, with whatever precaution "Rose Marie" lay, quietly,
wth, with gratevrck eyes open, and her hands either crossed on
with her great black eysoe, a   sdo    he bed. She never
her breast, or extended on the outside of t
turned, and scarcely stirred, by day or night.
After a few days, a low fever supervened: yet the only sign
of restlessness was a frequent low moa  incessant motion of
liriun, tossing of the arms, quick restless inces ; mot  of
the eyes, picking of the bed-clothes, at last low words; but the
last conveyed no information--she seemed to have a black-board
before her, from which she recited the steps of  rpexed
matical demonstrations. Dr. Galenson was sovereignty perplexed.
He had administered various remedies Apoite tunof such-
symptoms, but they were mostly rejected. After a run of twen-
ty-four days, the fever totally disappeared. The patient fell
into a profound sleep, accompanied with profuse swas by this
persisted in refusing neryalnors      ethwsbyhi

time reduced from the appearance of the highest youthful vigor
to the last degree of emaciation and feebleness ; and yet, the
intellectual activity seemed restored in some degree, for she
spoke to Miss Tankerville, and replied to the doctor s unfailing
daily questions, though briefly, almost in monosyllables.
"We shall not save her after all, doctor," said Miss Tanker-
ville, in a pathetic tone of voice.
"There is no disease, madam. With careful nursing, sho
ought now to recover."
"She is sinking," replied Miss Tankerville, with a stifled sob.
"I have seen a great change in her during the last three days.
She herself thinks she is dying, for she asked me to send for a
priest."
"Everything has been done for her that science can," return-
ed the young physician, folding his arms gloomily.
"Doctor, you will excuse me, but it is my opinion that there
ought to be a consultation. I will bear the expense,",said the
lady, in a firm tone.
" Madam, do you suppose that I. should not have proposed
the same thing long ago, had I not been profoundly convinced
of its absolute inutility ? There is but one physician in New
York on whom it would be ofgny earthly use to call for advice
in this case.. Our patient, madam, has been poisoned, and we
need an antidote."
A brief silence followed, broken by Miss Tankerville.
"Doctor, you are aware that my cousin, Dr. Mannikin, is no
friend or favorite of mine-I never thought to see him cross my
threshold again-as I told you the other day.-but, if Miss Mari6
has been poisoned- "
"His skill in such cases is altogether unrivalled," said Galen-
s'on, eagerly.
"Exactly so.
"Dr. Mannikin could save this girl's life, if he,.would."
"Then by all means call him in-for if she istleft alone, she
dies, doctor !" said Miss Tankerville, energetically,
This conversation took place in Miss Tankerville's parlor
after Dr. Galenson's morning visit: for he always came twice a
day. At a late hour the same afternoon the two physicians,


50                     ROSEMARY.
each in his own carriage, met at the ferry, and crossing the
river together, drove separately to Miss Tankerville's door, Dr.
Galenson leading the way in his uggy, and Dr Mauiin fol-
lowing in his handsome chariot. The latter jumped out and
advanced to his brother physician with an air of surprise.
"This is Miss Tankerville's, doctor! Thee-never told me
that thy patient was here."
"I was not aware that the name of the lady with whom my
patient is a boarder, had anything to do with her case. doctor."
"Oh, no! certainly :-Miss Tankerville and I are not on good
terms-that's all."
"Indeed !" said Galenson, with well-acted surprise. "Why,
it was Miss Tankerville herself who proposed sending for you."
" So 'I" replied Dr. Mannikin, appearing much relieved.
"Well, that alters the case."
Miss Tankerville's house had been built by a rich merchant
for his own residence. Too large for any private family of or-
dinary fortune, it had followed the usual fate of similar man-
sions in our shifting society, by becoming a boarding-house.
Around it still extended the old gardens and pleasaunce, planted
with venerable trees. The situation was unrivalled. Towards
the west the view was open to the bay, with its forts, the un-
counted shipping, the busy s eaboats plying in all directions,
the point of New York island juting out betwixt the North and
East rivers, and in the distance the blue Jersey shore.
The old drawing-room into which the two doctors were shown
for a moment, ws of ample size, lofty, and handsomely furnish-
ed in a style that NgJl suited it, equally removed from the mea-
greness of the inferior, and the vulgar splendor oV the.fashion-
able class of boarding-houses. There were great plenty of cosy
seats, chiefly old-fashioned arm-chairs, a ladies' work-table that
seemed in use, and a thousand domestic elegancies indicative of
a refined taste ; the walls were hung with numerous pictures,
and a great piano stood open with music on it, as if the perform-
er had just left it. The windows, richly and heavily draped,
commanded the fine view I have described.
Dr. Mannikin's keen and stealthy eye noted every feature, not
without surprise: "Medallion carpet--silk curtains-rosewood

THE CONSULTATION.            51

furniture-pictures! Where did she get all this ?" murmured
he, with a very unquaker-like expletive, that sounded much like
an oath. "So you say you suspect the young person has taken
poison, doctor ?"
"I do not suspect she has taken it, but that it has been ad-
ministered to her, doctor."
"Au ! important difference ! In the former case, the nervous
depression you describe might be attributed to a moral cause-
consequently beyond the reach of our art."
"Nothing of that sort, doctor ! Miss Tankerville assures me
that during her patient's delirium she has talked of the most
innocent school-girl trifles-sines and Cosines and algebraic
formulas-how you start, doctor ?"
"Humph! the oddity of a girl's delirium taking a mathematical
turn !" replied Dr. Mannikin, with difficulty recovering his com-
posure.
"It merely shows that she has nothing on her mind more
serious than her lessons."
" Th-ee---you told me, doctor,--that you made a post-mortem
of the young lady who was brought to the college-one night
when I happened in-a month or six weeks ago."
"Certainly, doctor."
" Ah ! you discovered that she died of disease of the heart-.
I think ?"
"I doubt if I was so positive-I said we began with the heart,
and found enough to render further examination useless."
" Ah !-you kept the heart,' you said ?"
" And promised to show it you--didn't I?" grimly smiling.
"I should like to see it," said Dr. Mannikin, in a more assured
and natural tone of voice. "And so you never discovered the
young person's family name ?"
"I thought it indiscreet to make inquiries-and you recollect
doctor,'that you yourself declined to gratify my curiosity."
" Under the circumstances-I too thought it indiscreet,"
replied the toxicologist.,
Here a servant announced that the doctor might come
upstairs. The hall and staircase were of old fashioned spacious-
ness; a window on the first landing-place overlooked a sort of


avenue in the pleasaunce, beyond which were seen the brown
buttresses of a gothic church. Dr. Mannikin remarked on the
cheerfulness of this view. The forms of the architecture were
rendered more distinct by snow, and the whole was gilded by
the sunset.
The sick-room was on the second story: its windows, like
those of the drawing-room, overlooked the bay. It was afiue
large room, as all in the house appeared to be. The high
mahogany head-board of the bed was against the windows and
cut off the light from the patient, who was hardly discernible as
she lay, her face buried in the pillows and shaded by the ruffles
of a cap a world too wide for her.  Miss Tankerville'n ta'l
figure, in an amply spreading dress, was also standing at the
bed's head, and threw a deeper shadow over the patient.
Chairs were placed for the two physicians, to whom Miss Tan-
kerville bowed with great formality, but with no sign of recog-
nition to her cousin.
"Since you were here in the morning, Miss Marie has again
desired me to send for a clergyman, sir," observed Miss Tanker-
ville.
"A clergyman !" said Galensoniwith a, look of sagacious con-
tempt.   Of what use can he be '.-.
"Of the greatest, doctor, in her opinion, since she is persuaded
that she is dying."
"We must all die sooner or later. Our young friend here
will live many years yet oIhope. ri
She did not look like it. Fever and fasting had sadly ravaged
the beauty which death or apparent death, had spared. The
once rich and full-outlined features were now sharp, pinched
and almost translucent. The black hair had escaped from the
ca and strayed in loose disorder upon the night-dress, over the
shoulder and bosom, wasted and sunken.
"The pulse, doctor," said Galenson, touching it, "is quite
peculiar."
Dr.p Mannikin, whose medical intuition had surveyed the
patient from head to foot, noting her position and what he could
discern of her expression, now applied his long white fingers to
the transparent wrist that lay motionless on the counterpane.

THE CONSULTATION.

53

"The stroke is firm, but surprisingly infrequent," pursued
Galenson.
Dr. Mannikin seemed greatly surprised. He drew forth his
watch, still keeping his finger tips on the wrist. His face was
turned to the light-astonishment was depicted on it.
"This is the pulse," said he, as if involuntarily, "of a person
who has taken upas ar----"
The lightning is not more sudden than the electric start with
which the patient, at the sound of his voice, roused at once
- from her lethargy, sprang to her seat in the bed, put away the
ruffles from her eyes with one emaciated hand and gazed in his
face.
Dr. Mannikin recoiled in his chair, and returned her gaze
with a ghastly grin of terror.
"Ezekiel Mannikin !" gasped the young woman.
"RoSE-MA-Ry 1" stammered the physician. "Do I see you
alive "
The young .girl sank back upon the pillow, exhausted with
her effort: her large wild eyes, hollow, dark and piercing, still
regarded him.
"I do-not--.ask you-to save me," she panted. "It isper-
haps too late-even for you."
"I shall do all I can, my dear child, believe me. But for the
treason of others it had never come to this."
This assurance, given with great apparent sincerity, elicited
only a faint derisive smile. -The young girl then quietly turned
away her piercing glance, and murmuring:--" Man proposes,
God disposes"-seemed to siqk, wearied, into the mysterious
apathy but of which she had been so painfully startled.
Miss Tankerville, who had at first regarded this scene with a
wild stare, now turned up the gas already feebly burning beside
the dressing-bureau, and 'fixed on Dr. Mannikin a look of
searching and stern interrogatory. That gentleman winced
rose, and said to his brother physician--" I think we may now
withdraw, doctor V'by
"As you please, doctor," said Galenson, drily.
Miss Tankerville's drawing room was filled with the boarders,
assembled for dinner. Dr. Galenson, who by this time knew

S

52

ROSEMIARY-


54                     ROSEMARY.
the house, led the way into the back room, where a long table
was very temptingly laid for dinner. The gas was already
lighted, claret stood in coolers, an oaken side-board, handsomely
carved with emblems of the chase, was loaded with fruit in
elegant plated baskets.
"Hem!" said Dr. Mannikin, with his peculiar smile ; "Helen
Tankerville must be over head and ears with debt from furnishing
this house.-So,-doctor !--you didn't treat me well in this mys-
tification !"-lifting, as if unconsciously, the silver-basket that
stood near, and which was weighty with forks and spoons ready
for the service of the table.
"My calling you in now proves the contrary, doctor," said
Galenson.
"Ah !-so you didn't make an autopsy after all?-You dis-
covered that the heart--"
"BEAT, doctor !"
" Ah! of course. And so you succeeded, not without diffi-
culty, in restoring animation and consciousness. Pity you
didn't admit me to your counsels. Shutting me out of the dis-
secting-room-it vas discourteous, doctor-and unwise too-I
might have saved you a great deal of trouble, and your patient
these unpleasant sequele, doctor."
"It is not yet too late, doctor, for the exertion of your incon-
testable skill," said Galenson. "It is simply required to supply
an antidote to a most remarkable poison, singularly permanent
in its influence, and which, nevertheles, has produced no organic
lesion."
"You are convinced that my young friend up stairs has been
really poisoned ? Pause, my dear doctor, before you pronounce
:af opinion of that decided nature."
"It is one that can never be proved if she recover, I allow,"
replied Galenson, astutely. "Should she die--"
"It may, you think l I doubt it very much, my dear doc-
tor !"-v-with his peculiar smile. "Very much I doubt it. Still
we must do what we can to prevent her dying-there I agree
with you."
"Were it. only to spoil a pretty case for the lawyers, and
those rascally newspapers," said Galenson, laughing.

THE CONSULTATION.           55

"How so ?" Another death's-head grin.
"Oh! because, in case of her 'death, I should of course report
to the coroner, and have alb the circumstances investigated.
Even if an.antopsy discovered nothing, we should not lack what
the herald ccus 'rich develoihnents.' We should get on the
track of our friend Jol)in ald his colored associate. You
yoursel f, doctor, and nysel f, my pupils, our friend Count Wis-
sen, niust give our testimony. Once in the way of publicity,
every material fact will come out."
Duing this ti am iof remark, which evinced on the part of Dr.
G leninn great lucidity of ideas, Dr. Manilkin regarded him
winh a stare of stony attention. At the conclusion, he drew
from his great-coat lpocket a small morocco case. It was fi;led
with minute vials. Selecting one which contained a dark red
fluid, and simply marked on the cork with an oriental character,
he consigned it to his professional brother.
" Aduinister to your patient, Dr. Galenson, five drops of that
tincture in a spoonful of water three times a day, for three days.
Support her st length with brandy. Feed her with essence of
beef. If that course does not bring her round, she is beyond
my skill."
IHere a servant-a man-servant-brought in the soup: it was
served in an obl-fashioned silver tureen, engraved with the
family arms of the Tankervilles. Dr. Mannikin gave a more
than usually sinister smile at the sight of this article of table
furniture. Passing out through the front room, of which the
folding-doors were now thrown open, he encountered the mis-
tress of the house. Miss Tankerville dropped him a curtsey that
covered half the medallon of the carpet with her black silk
flounces. Dr. Mannikin returned the salute with a wave of his
broadbrim  hat, and .a courtier-like bend of his semi-quaker
body.
The boarders-a well-dressed crowd of gentlemen and ladies
--were already ' motion towards the dining-room.
" Won't you take pot-luck with us, Dr. Mannikin'I" said Miss
Taekerville, with another profound reverence.
'Professional engagement, Miss Tankerville, alone prevent
my accepting your kind invitation."


56                     ROSEMARY.
"Professional engagements are sacred, doctor-I must excuse
you, then."  And she swept on.
" Excuse me, doctor," said the gentleman on whose arm Miss
Tankerville leaned: it was Count Wissenl.'
A white-haired gentleman said a brief grace, and the cere-
mony began.
"Well, Miss Tankerville, how is your patient T' inquired her
nearest neighbor, unrolling his napkin.
"We are full of hope, count. I met Dr.Galeflon on the stais
just now with a little red vial in his hand, which, he itimates,
is going to do the business."

CHAPTER VI.
CONVALESCENCE-A NEW CHARACTER.
THE red tincture works like magic.
Dr. Galenson called the first morning. Nurse meets him with
an air of importance: the patient has waked three times in the
night to ask for food, which she devours with greediness. For
three days more, existence seems purely animal, divided be-
tween food and slumber, like a new-born babe's. On the fourth
day the convalescent began to ask questions, and it was evident
that all which had passed during her previous illness was re-
membered only as a painful dream. She recollected a great
horror on first coming to herself in a strange and dreadful
place, a charnel-house (as she described it) surrounded by
strange men and by the bodies of the deal:-this she attributed
to delirium, perceiving by her weakness that she had experienced
a severe illness of some sort. Next, she recalled with vividness
a glimpse of a frozen and moonlit river, over whch she was
dreamily borne by attendant angels :-this, of course, was also
a dream! The interview with Dr. Mannikin was distinctly and
painfully. impressed :-" Was it real or not ?"  Ages had ap-
peared to pass in this delirious fever, and yet the moment in
which she had seemed to herself expiring, was but as yesterday
--" Where was she now? Where was grand-papa ? Grand-
mamma ? Grace ?"
When the young person learned, in answer to these queries,
that those by whom she was surrounded were ignorant of her
family name, s  fell into a deep revery. At last she said to
Miss Tankervifle, when that lady was alone with her,-
" Explain to me how it happens that I am not among my own
friends ?"
"My dear Miss Rose-for I know that such is your Christian


58                    ROSEMARY.
name--it is more than two months since your friends supposed
you dead. You have been recovered in a manner little less than
miraculous, but who you are, we do not yet know, and conse-
quently we have not been able to inform your friends of what
has happened."
"Two months';" ejaculated the young person.
"We found your - card," pursued Miss Tankerville, to whom
Dr. Galenson, under a pledge of secrecy, had confided all the
particulars of the.case, "and your linen was also marked with
your Christian name--"
"My Christian name!" repeated the young person. "But
my card has my name in full !"
"It was not your card, in fact, but the inscription on your
coffin," said Miss Tankerville.
" Ah ! I was buried, then-it is not a dream !" exclaimed the
unhappy girl, with an expression of sudden anguish. "Bring
me the clothes," added she, impetuously, "in which I was brought
here."
Miss Tankcrville had caused the articles of under-clothing to
be freshly done up, and they were brought in a laundry-basket.
The young person blushed and looked puzzled as she examined
them: but they were all marked in red silk with exquisite neat-
ness, and she seemed better satisfied. "Where is the dress 'I"
shee=asked.  Miss Tankerville produced it from a wardrobe,
which-formerly used by young O'Morra-now contained noth-
ing else. At sight of it, a thousand memories evidently flashed
back on the questioner, who burst into tears. She asked no
more questions in regard to herself, nor would she answer any.
"Pray keep all quiet for the present," said she, in answer to
Miss Tankerville's request to know the name of Jier family, in
order that Dr. Galenson might communicate with them imme-
diately :-" keep all quiet for the present--what may not have,
happened in two months 'i"
On the whole Dr. Galenson considered tha  ere was good
sense in this. That gentleman, to own the truth, had never
taken any special pains to unveil the mystery, perhaps for fear
lest the management of so interesting a case should be taken
from him. For his own part he had never mentioned it, except to

CONVALESCENCE-A NEW        CHARACTER.        59
the parties who had witnessed the scene in the dissecting-room.
Of these O'Callaghan and Fitzfulke were medical students, and
their lips were sealed by professional honor; besides they were
preparing for their examinations, and had something else to think
of. Two months slip away unobserved when unfledged doctors
are reading up before taking their degrees. O'Morra's silence
hardly needs explanation-silence was Rory's forte.  Count
Wissen, who had been absent for several weeks, in Washington,
was a soldier and a diplomat; professions in which discretion is
the first of virtues. The only difficulty lies in explaining how a
woman could be equally discreet, especially after Miss Tanker-
ville had been formally entrusted with the secret. This will be
justly regarded as more intrinsically improbable than any other
incident, however extraordinary, that we have yet recorded. We
have been able to account very rationally for the strict reticence
of all the men concerned, including Dr. Mannikin, who, like
Johnson and his black associate, had perhaps a crime to conceal,
or a great professional misdemeanor to hush up: but we do
not undertake to explain the taciturnity of a woman in such a
case, unless by the rule of contraries. Mis 'Tankerville per-
haps held her tongue because she had so many reasons, motives
and temptations to talk. She was rather a remarkable person,
though, was Miss Tankerville,
Accordingly a week passed from the date of the conversation
above related, during which time the subject was not again
referred to; but the convalescence of l\Iiss Maria (as she was
called for want of a better name) advanced with rapidity. She
was able to sit up a great part of the day, and it became neces-
sary to provide her uith appropriate clothing. Miss Tanker-
Ville now suggested that on applying to her friends, her own
wardrobe would be sent to her.
"Tut!" said the young lady, impatiently. "For such a trifle
it is net worth while to distlrb them prematurely. Till I am
able to return in person, my dear Miss Tan.kerville, the best way
will be to provide myself with a suitable outfit. Besides, all my
clothes have been given away, and under no circumstances".
with an expression of wounded sentiment.-" will I receive any
of them back,"


CONVALESCENCE-A NEW CHARACTER.

"How do you know that your clothes have been given
away ?" demanded Miss Tankerville, with astonishment.a
"It is sufficient that I know it," she answered, with an air of
sudden reserve. "Why speak of a matter of so little conse-
quence ? There are plenty of stores in Broadway where a
young lady can be fitted out on a few days' notice with every-
thing she requires."
"No doubt of that, but where is the money to come from'
To fit you out properly, that is at all in the way to which you
are accustomed, will take at least two hundred dollars, ard to
tell the truth I have never twenty to spare."
" Oh ! is that all i" says madlemoiselle, quite carelessly
" There I must borrow of somebody else."
"Of whom, I pray, my dear child ? Not of Dr. Galenson, I
hope: he is por as Job's turkey."
"Of course, Miss Tankerville, I am already in Dr. Galenson's
debt for attendance, and I;could not ask, in any case, a young
unmarried man like him to lend me money," replied Rose
Marie, with dignity.
"Dr. Mannikin, perhaps ?" audaciously suggested Miss Tank-
erville. "He is rich, an old friend, and knows your timily."
"You jest," said the young woman, with a slight look of an-
noyance.
"Who, then ?" persisted Miss Tankerville. "For these two
comprise, I think, all your male acquaintance as a fair incognita,
my dear Miss Mare6 !"
"What sort of person," asked the young lady, after a moment s
reflection, "is this Mr. O'Morra, whose apartment I occupy ?
By the little luxuries and useless elegancies about, he should not
be poor."
"My dear child ! he is younger than Dr. Galenson-a youth
of scarce three and twenty !"
" Ah !" said Rose Marie with a vivid blush. "I thought he
was an elderly gentleman. Didn't you tell me the photograph
over the study-desk was a portrait of Mr. O'Morra'P'
"That is the old gentleman, Mr. Rory's father 1" said Miss
Tankerville, laughing.

"Oh! there is an old gentleman, after all!" said the young
lady, much relieved. "What is he V"
"A lawyer".----
" A lawyer !" interrupted the young woman, impatiently.
"Then I'm afraid he has no money to spare. An Irish lawyer,
too! no! that's hopeless-if he were only a merchant !'
"Mr. O'Morra has money enough, if that's all," said Miss
Tankerville, very much amused. "Few lawyers in New York,
I fancy, enjoy a more lucrative practice : the only question is,
will he lend it to an utter stranger?"
"Of course he will, on proper security, and I should never
dream of asking it without. Where aremy pearls, Miss Helen ?"
"I declare I never thought of the pearls," said Helen Tanker-
ville. "Of course you can borrow money on them, if you
choose."
They were produced. Rose Marie asked for paper and pen-
cil. It seemed she had a turn for figures. She made promptly
a list of the articles required. Adding in her board for two
months, of which she surmised Miss Tankerville, according to
her own statement, stood in need, and various expenses of her
recent illness, she found that she needed, even with strict eco-
nomy, the pretty little sum of $500.
CNow," said she,."take that list to Mr. O'Morra, who will
see that it is all of imperative necessity, and that the money I
mnust and will have; and then show him the pearls, which cost,
you may tell him, five times the amount in Paris. The finest
set at Tiffany's is only $650, and if he wishes to know the value
of these--I don't want him to take them to Tiffany's, mind--
but all he'has to do is to order home three or four of their most
expensive sets for examination: he will easily see the difference.
When he is satisfied, he will please fill me out a cheque for the
sum I require."
Miss Tankervile was astonished, but did as she was requested.
Mr. Cabal O'Morra was sitting in his own private parlor,
where a study-light illumined a table covered with Jaw-papers.
The room was fitted up rather as a library than as a parlor, and
Mr. O'Morra, senior, had all the air of a student. The son of an
exile, though a man of high, almost princely birth, he had begmn

60

ROSEMARY.

61


62                   RO0SEMARLY.

life poor, and had risen by his talents, which were of the highest
forensic order, and by the force of a character of rare intensity,
not only to wealth, but to a professional position almost un-
rivalled. Becoming a widower early in life, with an only son,
whose education the immense toils of his profession utterly for-
bade him to superintend, he had sent Rory to a Jesuit college
at a very early age, and lived 'himself, not parsimoniously, but
nearly as a bachelor. He had long known Miss Tankerville,
had been one of her boarders from the first, had assisted her
with money and advice on various critical occasions, and yet
that lady stood not a little in awe of him. O'Morra was noted
among men for his bitter severity ; and speaking generally, he
was cold though courtly towards women. Contrary to wbat is
usually attributed to Irishmen, he was not in any ordinary occa-
sion accessible through his feelings; and though very kind to
the poor and profuse in secret charities, he had no compassion
for genteel distresses, and little faith in the virtue or sincerity of
the better, or ra other better-dressed classes. Hence, Miss Tanker-
ville approached him on her present errand with many mis iv-
ings. These were not diminished by the circumstance that the
young person whose embassadress she was, had entered the house
under the patronage of Mr. Rory O'Morra, and was actually the
occupant of that young gentleman's room. Rory's character
and tastes were as much the cause of chagrin to his father, as
his son's personal beauty and admitted talents were an occasion
of pride. He had planned to train him for his own profession,
and ultimately for a political career, in which his name his birth,
his fortune and his talent would open to him the way to the
highest distinctions. To his infinite disgust, Rory took a great
dislike to the law. He had studied it, it is true, from filial obe-
dience, and had been admitted to the bar; but his tastes were
all literary and artistic; he was the intimate of all the Bohemians
in New York, the associate of all the artists, and after much
teasing he had obtained from his father, who passionately loved
and could deny him nothing, a reluctant permission to try his
hand privately at sculpture. Mr. O'Morra, who never conde-
scended to breathe au inquiry in regard to a matter so utterly
beneath his notice, had nevertheless understood that the young

CONVALESCENCE---A NEW     CHARACTER.        03
person who had somehow been installed in his son's apartment,
had entitled herself to his "chivalrous" aid in the course of one
of Rory's artistic and Bohemian adventures. While he Supposed
that the girl or woman, or whatever she was, was certainly dying,
Mr. O'i\Iorra did not trouble himself about her; but wheng,
learned by the conversation at table, that she was, to his sincere
regret, in a fair way to recover, his annoyance was very reat
It may be inferred how well he wasnnreae for ter great,
of Miss Tankerville.p                 e


THE LAWYER.

CHAPTER VII.
THE LAWYER.
TaE apartment of Mr. Cahal O'Morra merits a brief descrip-
tion. It was the largest room on Miss Tankerville's second
floor, and had two high windows, one looking south, the other
west, so that the occupant could enjoy a double view. Being
night the curtains, which were of green, danasked in gold,
were closely drawn. The walls up to a certain height were
fitted with bookcases richly carved in solid oak, filled with law-
books in their well-known tawney binding, and crowned with
busts. Washington had the place of honor, on the case between
the two doors of the room; another, devoted to Irish orators,
pleadings and laws, was surmounted by the head of O'Connell;
John C. Calhoun occupied a conspicuous position ; the rest were
either great statesmen or great lawyers. At one end of the
room, near the fire-place, stood a large sofa carved in oak and
upholstered in green billiard-cloth ; there were library chairs to
match; and the same tints of quiet green and oak-color were
repeated in the soft thick carpet that muffled every tread. Over
the handsome, old-fashioned, rather low mantelpiece of Egyp-
tian marble, a huge mirror, framed in oak, repeated the whole
length of the room ; including the bronze chandelier, that dif-
fused a soft light from burners shaped like antique lamps ; and
the study table, also of massive oak, and covered with law-pa-
pers, over which it was suspended ; and where Mr. O'Morra was
sitting in a great high-backed arm-chair. A flexible tube
dropped from the chandelier to a study-light below, to assist
the lawyer's labors.
Mr. O'Morra looked up from his writing as Miss Tankerville
entered. He was a tall, spare man, with a pale, somewhat thin
face, regular, aquiline and sharp, a large spectral dark-gray eye,

a very finely formed forehead, shaded by hair both gray and
scanty. His mouth was very characteristic, somewhat promi-
nent, with thin bitter lips, which opened'(as he welcomed Miss
Tankerville) in a smile where kindness contended with habitual
sarcasm.
"Have the goodness to be seated, Miss Helen," he said, with-
out rising. or laying down his pen.
"I am afraid I interrupt you, Mr. O'Morra," said Miss Tank-
erville, but taking a chair near the table.
"You shall not interrupt me," replied Mr. O'Morra, sarcas-
tically smiling, while his pen continued to pursue its work.
"It is a little matter of business-I won't detain you long
with it," said Helen Tankerville.
"What is it about ?" asked Mr. O'Morra, still busily writing.
"About the young lady in the next room, your neighbor, sir,
-Miss Marid, I mean. She wants to borrow a little money of
you to re-furnish her wardrobe," said Helen, thinking it best
and bravest to plunge at once into the deepest water of the dif-
ficulty,
"I shan't lend it her," replied Mr. O'Morra, without any emo-
tion. "if that is your errand, Miss Helen, you may spare your..
self and me all further trouble."
"Now, Mr. O'Morra !" said Helen, who had Irish blood in her
veils too, and was a famous wheedler:-"just lay down that
pen of yours for a few minutes, and give your best attention to
what I have to say."
Mr. O'Morra carefully wiped the pen, laid it down, pushed
back his chair a little, so as to confront Miss Tankerville, laid
his gray thin head back on the cushion, looked at his watch
(as much as to hint at brevity), and said : "Proceed, madam-.
I am all ears !"
Miss Tankerville stated the case as pathetically and concisely
as she could. She insisted in the first place on the fact that
Miss Marie had been brought to the house in a state of uncon-
sciousness by his son, which gavether a claim to the kindness
and chivalrous hospitality of the O'Morras. Secondly, he must
know-perhaps he had heard-that she was brought there in a
bridal dress-white moire antique and satin slippers-and of

65


THE LAWYER.

course she needed other clothes, in order to return to her
friends. Thirdly, wishing to purchase what was required for
that purpose, she was under the necessity of borrowing, and
offered, as security, to pledge her jewels, which Miss Tanker-
ville, who had arranged them in an oil jewel-case of her uwn,
proceeded to display before Mr. O'Morra's dazzled eyes.
That gentleman listened gravely, but wi h a look of deter-
mined non-sympathy. Tne pearls, however, were a fact that
staggered him. He examine(l them carefully ; lie laid them
out on the green clnth of his study-table, where their clouded
yet lustrous whiteness seemed to gain a new splendor.
It is a superb set, no doubt; but how do you know that it
is really hers 1"
"flers !" repeated Helen. "You should have seen her when
she was brought here.  There was everything to match, I
assure you. The most elegant thing I ever saw in my life.
The lace on her dress alone must have cost several thousand
dollars. See this ! it is her veil-I brouht it without her know-
ledge just to show you-the most magnificent point you ever
saw ! and large enough to envelope her whole person! what do
you think of that, Mr. O'Morra ?"
"It is a princess incognita !" said Mr. O'Morra".
"Hers ! As well ask if a corpse has stolen or borrowed its
shroud !" said Helen, indignantly..
"A forcible illustration, but infelicitous: for a corpse has no
property, and could not pledge even its shroud. It is a natural
supposition that these articles do not belong to this young
person, who is a minor and is unmarried, but to her father. I
dare say she's honest !"
"And the sweetest girl you ever saw ! Take my word for
that. If there is a genuine bit of calico anywhere hereabouts,
it is this Miss Marie. There, now you have it, sir !"
"And how much does this nonpareil in petticoats wish me to
lend her '"    .
"Why, sir, as to that, her notions are those of a young lady
used to the greatest libera ity in her wardrobe, both as to
quantity and quality ; and she desires to pay her board, which
may as well hold over:. but here is her estimate."

Mr. O'Morra took the paper and glanced over it.
"Whew! Five hundred dollars !--For necessaries a minor
can incur debt--but what's all this.     e      s        r
(Reads) "Half doz. fine muslin skts-.-.---$45 00
"1 Plain silk dress.......... -40 00
"1 do. Spring bonnet.... -"..15 00
"There's a cool hundred on three articles!   How
young lady whose bridal veil may have          However, a
dred, and her pearls in the neighborhood of three thousand -
lars, may well require a five hundred dollar outfit to make a
morning call. I ought to be surprised that she is so moderate."
At first, Miss Tankerville did  ne            o oderat."
in earnest, or as one of Mr. O'Morra's sar       He soos
relieved her of the doubt.             sarcasms. He soon
"Just think now," he continued, "of the
these New York women !    '               extravagance of
these marwie wteto .Five hundred dollars! Why, when
I married I went to house-keeping on less thnta.Ti
chit, by your account ous-kepmgon es than that. 'This
ch  by yor fac  , roug t here a whole fortune on her
back. Her father, perhaps, began life as an essence-h,edllar, If
she has really a right to wear such things, eence-ihedlari
she must be enormously ic--     r    'd even at her marriage,
she  ustbe  norousy rich-a great deal richer than I am,
Let her send for her guardian orageent orcwhoever has the care
of her money, and she will get what she wants. That is the
proper course for her to pursue. Tell her sofrom m, ise
Helen, in the politest terms you can       from meMiss
Mr. O'Morra tunedd   '
Mrspe    ra turned decidedly towards the table and resumed
his pen.                                              me
"Well !" said Helen Tankerville "if th  -
more like the answer i'd expect from a Bsn angor a
red-faced British commercial traveller, than from a descendant
of the princely O'Morras !" ro
"Madam !" said Mr. O'M .
ada   said Mr    orra, half turning round to her, with
a savage scowl.
"Oh ! you needn't look as ifyg
I shall tell you thepaitrt you were going to eat me up!
I shll ellyoutheplain truth--.this is very shabby !" sai
Helen, flaming up,. '"Here is  lti   8vr    hby! said
Heen, flamihe uri     e is a lovely, unprotected girl, sepa-
rated from her friends by Some piece of dreadful treachery ;"..-

66

ROSEMARY.

67


THE LAWYER.

ROSEMARY.

Mr. O'Morra's lip curls-" a lady to the tips of her fingers;
innocent, injured, just recovered f: om a nearly mortal illness ;"-
O'Morra begins to write again-" and you refuse her a trifling
loan-you, who boast of always keeping a balance of thousands,
and two or three bank accounts-you, Cahal O'Morra ! And
all because your son brought her here ! I understand itall.
Yet Rory, I can tell you, never saw her except in her coffin!"
"In her coffin ?" said Mr. O'Morra, laying down his pen
again.
"Well, yes, since I've said it-in her coffin; that's how she
was brought here, sir, by Count Wissen, Dr. Galenson and your
son."
Mr. O'Morra turned round again in his chair, and resumed
his attitude of attention. His spectral gray eyes were fastened
searchingly on Miss Tankerville.
"Go on," said he, as if he were addressing a witness on the
stand.
"No, sir, I've said more than enough already, more than I
have permission to say on the part of those whose secret it is:
so if you're not going to lend Miss Marie this money, I'll go and
tell her so at once."
"Stop !" said the lawyer.
Cabal 0'Morra was the most eminent criminal lawyer in the coun-
try perhaps : his sagacious nostrils snuffed a case, or rather a cause,
possibly a cause cslebre. It was not at all a mercenary instinct, but
a professional and artistic one, which made him now detain Miss
Tankerville, and endeavor to extract-further particulars, which
his practised skill easily enabled him to do, even without her
suspecting it.
"Don't be a fool, Helen," said he, as she half angrily, half
politically, insisted upon going. " I will give you the money :
I am going to write a cheque this minute."
"Now. that's Cabal O'Morra.  I declare, who would have
thought that a good scolding would do you so much good V" said
Helen, quite overjoyed at this unexpected success.
Somehow Mr. O'Morra had mislaid his cheque-book-for
he always kept one at home, exclusively for domestic expenses
--a most methodical man was O'Morra. When he found it, he

was for ever filling out the cheque ; and meanwhile he continued
to question and cross-question Helen Tankerville.
Of course, Miss Helen, I can put two and two together well
enough to comprehend that if Rory and Dr. Galenson brought
Miss Marie here in her coffin, it was at the medical college that
she came into their hands."
Not a thousand miles from it, I reckon," said Helen.
"I had better make this cheque payable to bearer, I think.
And so Dr. Galenson suspected poison'? Is there a poison
capable of producing such effects ?"-Raising the pen from the
paper.
"He says there is, though only one person that he knows of
is acquainted with it."
"A cousin of yours, Helen ?" With a grim, satisfied smile,
and playing with the plume of the quill. "But I understand
that this young person owes her recovery to Dr. Mannikin ?"
"I did not mention Dr. Mannikin, sir."
"Of course not. And so she refuses to tell you her real
name?"
"She wont answer any questions at all about herself."
"She is discreet. And you do not think the name is
'lMarid.'"
"I don't ; and yet it would be strange if the family name of
a deceased person were not put upon her coffin-plate !"
"Very strange !" said Mr. O'Morra, with a peculiar look.
"I should think it would be easy to find out," said He'len
"if one could get hold of a file of daily papers. The Deaths
or itarriages, one or the other, would be sure to have it."
"Or both,' said Mr. O'Morra, tearing off the cheque he hail
written, and then deliberately tearing it up.-Miss Tankerville
started in disappointment:
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Helen, I am going to write another.
I was 50 interested in what you were saying that I forgot to ue
my bank signature. By the way, what do you think of your
young friemnd' dule of expenses here ?"-..pointing to Rose.-
mary's memorandum."You are a woman and experienced in
"It is sufficient for the purpose," said Helen

68

1%

69


ROSEMARY.

71

"What purpose ?" asked the lawyer.
"To get into a carriage anti make a call on her friends, which
is what she intends, evidently."
"Ahem! Miss Marie had better not do that without making
inquiries first. Are the clothes-is money-the difficulty? I
ask, Miss Helen, because I don't want to cut her down-eli ?"
"If you are serious in that, Mr. O'Morra, and really wish to
know my opinion, I can tell you that to get up a complete varl-
robe for a young lady in the circle to which Miss Marie plainly
belongs, with such a sum as that, is out of the question. She
has cut herself down to absolute necessaries ."
"It seems so," said O'Morra, gravely, and filling up the cheque
in earnest. He dashed the sand over it, and handed it to Miss
Tankerville.
"There are the pearls, sir."
"Excuse me," said Mr. O'Morra, pushing them back. "I am
not going to make myself responsible for their safe keeping.
By the way, I doubt the prudence of a young woman's retain-
ing such things in her room, in a house that half the nights is
protected but by a night-latch. Robberies have been frequent
in Brooklyn of late, and we are rather isolated here. A party
of burglars, with a simple night-key and a little chloroform
might easily carry off Miss MariC and her pearls too. I hope
she bolts her door at night."
"I doubt if Rory's room has a bolt."
"Have one put on to-morrow !"-With a spectral glance of
warning, out of his weird eyes. "People capable of committing
a crime like that of which she has been nearly the victim, would
not hesitate a minute about committing another to conceal it.
This is a villainous world, madam I"
"I am very much obliged to you for this," said Helen, looking
at the cheque.
"Not at all," said O'Morra, who, in spite of his sneers, under-
stood perfectly the requirements of a certain worldly position,
and who, though infinitely crabbed, was far above all meanness.
Besides which, he had undoubtedly a reason-almost intuitively
arrived at by his subtle and far-reaching mind-for , liberality
beyond Miss Tankerville's expectations.

"I hope Miss Marie," added he, courteously rising ,--" tell
her to stick to that name, by all means-i hope she will be dis-
creet. And as for that trifle, if she prefers to do so, she can give
me a written acknowledgment, over her real name ell ?" con-
cluded the lawyer.
In a few minutes Miss Tankerville returned from Rosemary's
room, with a sheet of note-paper, on which was written in a
clerkly hand, after the date--
" Due to Cabal O'Morra, Esq., $750, value received.
"ROSE MARIE."
Mr. O'Morra bit his lip.--" The saucy jade !" he murmured
But he put the autograph carefully away in his pocket-bo-ok.

70

THE LAWYER.


CHAPTER VIII.
THE PURCHASE.
ROSEMARY'S beautiful short upper lip curled at Miss Tanker-
ville's account of her interview, with Mr. O'Morra. She shrug-
ged her pretty shoulders, like a Frenchwoman, at the amount
of the cheque.
" If Mr. O'Morra thought fit to exceed the sum that I asked,"
said she, "why didn't he double it ' Seven hundred and fifty
dollars ! As if I had asked for fifty cents, and he had gene-
rously loaned me seventy-five !-three quarters of a dollar ! He
is liberal, Miss Helen-I feel it-but he is not confiding I He
fears that I shall misspend it, if he lend me too much."
"But surely you have now more than sufficient," replied Miss
Tankerville. "In a few days you will have returned to your
friends---"
"Pardon me, how do you know that'P" demanded Rosemary.
"I understood that such was your intention, certainly, in bor-
rowing this money."
"You are Lot very penetrating, then, my dear Miss Tanker-
ville. If such were my intention, how simple would it be to
send a note summoning one of 'my friends'-as you call them-
to visit me here 'i In a few hours I should have evet thing
that I require without borrowing of anybody. Do you suppose
that I am planning a theatrical surprise for my family, now
buried in affliction at my supposed decease ?"
"Upon my word, I rather thought so."
" Pray have a better opinion of my good feeling and good
sense."
There was a pause.
"What, then, do you intend'" at length inquired Miss
Tankerville.

THE PURCHASE.                    73
"I see it is necessary for me to explain myself, lest you should
compromise my plans by such imprudent revelations as you
have made to Mr. O'Morra."
'I am all attention."
"I do not mean to return to my family, Miss Helen--that is
to my family here. I have a--relative-a parent-in Europe,
to whom I mean to write at once explaining my situation. Till
I iear fIIm that relative, whose claim upon me is superior to
that of any onemliving, I wish to remain i the greatest retire-
ment, and that my existence may not be suspected."
"And leave your friends here, who evidently have lovedayou
almost to exes, a prey to inconsolable grief !' cried Helen.
"My dear Miss Helen ! what do you know ' about that ?"
asked the young girl, with emotion.
Miss Tankerville was silent: for she in fact knew nothing.
"That blow has fallen !" pursued Rosemary, almost passion-
ately. " Pardon me! I have little to learn, Miss Helen, in re-
gard to the effect of my sudden death upon those who really
loved me. My grandfather"-her voice trembled--" was struck
down as by lightning.  He lives a living death-intellect
strength, feeling, crushed! Should he even have partially re-
covered from the paralysis which struck him, I should fear the
effect of a new agitation. As for the other parties interested
you must excuse me for not saying anything. My return home
would cause dismay to some, inflict the severest pangs on others-
the innocent and guilty alike would suffer. Hence I wish to
remain quiet, and leave all to Providence, which in its own good
time will rght the injured and punish the guilty."
"But your affianced husband ?" inquired Heleni
bly astonished.qi                       e  ,immeasura
" Ah !" said the young woman, turning away her head, with
ab itepression rather of wounded pride than of tender sensi-
bility: "you tread now on rather delicate ground, my dear
Miss Tankerville."
"I see now," said Miss Tankerville hastening to introduce
another topic, "why you need this money so much: but if you
intend to live in strict seclusion until you can hear from your
S   4                        yucnha        rmyu

&amp;$


74                     1osEMARY.
relations in Europe, do you require so expensive an outfit as
you have proposed 3"
It was now the turn of the younger lady to be astonished.
"You consider my estimate extravagant? Pray, tell me
what item can be left out or cut down . 1 thought that I had
been rigidly economical !"
Miss Tankerville explained that the sum which Miss Mar16
devoted to a single silk dress, would buy two such as she
herself was accustomed to wear ; nd that a similar reduction
of at least one-half could be made on every article of her esti-
mate, and yet she would be as well dressed as any young lady
visiting in Miss Tankerville's circle pretended to be, on any
ordinary occasion. Then it was almost summer, and muslins
would be more useful than silks, and a vast deal cheaper-
"cI understand you now, Miss Helen," interrupted Rosemary.
"Please, then, make my purchases according to your own idea
of what is proper for a young lady moving in your circle-I
place myself entirely in your hands !" added she with a fascin-
ating smile.pefcl
Armed with this permission, and now comprehending perfectly
what was required, Miss Tankerville soon procured her guest a
wardrobe iii which no unpractisedl eye would have discovered
the least want of propriety, or even of.elegance, and which
without exhausting Miss Maris's purse, amply supplied all her
wants. And although it fell very far short of what that young
person had been accustomed to, both in cost and in style, as her
innocent wonder at the prices of things proved, she never made
the slightest objection to anything that came under the, head of
visible costume. .The only point in which she insisted upon
her own programme, very slightly modified, was that of thedun-
der clothing, or rather of all, except lace, which is included in
the trousseau, comprising suceliaisa        ankrhes
under-sleeves, etcetera, for which Miss Tankerville was positively
dispatched with a list, and certain measures, to a celebrated
outfitting establishment on Broadway.
"The order is to be made up, of course: that will require
tine," said the forewoman of the ladies' department in this
great "store," looking at the list intelligently.

THE PURCHASE.                     75
"It will, unless you can hit the measures exactly," said
Helen.
"I will see," said the forewoman.
The forewoman consulted the cutter, and then she
to Miss Tankerville with a question: Did the young lady for
whom these things were wanted, wvear hoops?   Th
was pertinent at that date, for this sovereign pfash-hei mquiry
cently come in and was not yet universal.
" Oh ! ,I forgot," said Helen. "She has never worn
utterly refuses to do it."ne                  o  one, and
"Then I think I'can suit you," said the forewoman
lovely outfit-very cheap."   .                      with a
With the assistance of one of the other shop-girls
carton box was got down, which the forewoman pe large
displayed an elegant bride's outfit: the box had been  ad
pressly to contain it when sent home, for it was fancifully covered
with silver, paper, now somewhat tarnished evidently an ar-
rangement for some magnificent and tasteful customer.
" This trousseau, ma'am, was ordered several months ago for
a ouglaywh wsgon to be married, but she died,=.to
tell you just how it was,--and her friends to whom iet
turned it herea to e sold-I declare, this measure fits exactly !"
-Takes out another garment to measure.." W     ' g h
sold it'time and again, but owing to the new style which makes
the things rather scant--pity !-too, when they're eutifully
worked !-and the handkerchiefs and so forth b   beautifully
with the name, parties object to them.-Why t1he emeasres
fit to a hair ! H                       y, tese measures
S How curious !-La! now, if the name
insuperable objection-, miss-it can            isn t an
that o on wou , n iss,-icaneasily be p-cked ots
that no one would notice it--I will give you the whole a bargain."
"What name is it ?" inquired Miss Tankervill  argam.
moment that the I                          ile, at the very
e forewoman produced it, beautifully embroi-
dered, as she said, in red silk, on an exquisitely fine but oer-
wise rather simple handkerchief. It was the same mark ich
the hadeore seen on the cambric centre of a costly cobweb
the twenty years' work of a Brussels lace-makerb ic
fan beyond price, had once hung by the radian a    w
arm and bore the name of "RosE MARIE."


CONVALESCENCE.

" What was the family name of the young lady who died ?"
Miss Tankerville could not forbear asking.
"Oh, indeed, ma'am, I couldn't tell you that. We were di-
rected to have the marking carefully picked out, but it is such
a tedious job, and these fine things never look as well again, so
it being only the Christian name, we thought as we would leave
it and see if it wouldn't suit some one, maybe."
Miss Tankerville suspected that the absolute impossibility of
effacing all trace of this exquisitely delicate marking was also
the motive of the apparent frankness displayed in admitting the
history of the outfit, which was without peradventure the most
serious obstacle to its sale.
"The lady, on whose account we sell it, will submit to a very
handsome reduction on the original cost price, ma' am."
"There must be more than my order," said Miss Tankerville.
" There's just double on every piece, ma'am; I've just com-
pared our list with mine: but in a few of our items there is
one piece short-it was used, and so not returned with the
rest," observed the forewoman, with tranquil unconsciousness
of the meaning of her words
"This marking is beautiful, but it is a serious objection to a
person of a different name," observed Miss Tankerville, in a
depreciating tone. She had no scruple in getting the things as
cheaply as possible.
"It is easy picked out," said the saleswoman.  We will do
it so that nobody will ever know it was there."
"You just now said the very reverse," remarked Miss Tank-
erville, with a smile, and examining the elaborate embroidery
of the name. "it is a very serious objection, as I consider."
"Well, miss, we think we shall meet some one of the same
name yet !" replied the forewoman.
" Do youT" said Miss Tankerville, looking up at her.
"Sure to turn up sooner or later in our business, ma'am."
"Well, what do you give the whole for 'i" said Miss Tanker-
ville.
The saleswoman consulted some mysterious signs on the back
of the printed list and named a price. Very curiously, it was
the extreme limit which she had agreed upon with Rosemary,

to be appropriated to this item of expenditure. The astonishing
coincidence that for this very sum she should obtain the original
bridal outfit of this mysterious girl, affected her so strongly that
in counting out the bills to pay on the spot, she thought every-
body must notice her agitation. Her hands trembled and she
acted like a raw country girl making for the first time a grand
purchase. She nearly forgot to give her address, which the
forewoman repeated with emphasis: " Miss Tankerville No.
R- street, Brooklyn Heights :" and all the young ladies be-
hind the counters smiled as she drew down her veil and departed.
"Now," thought Helen, as she got into the Wall street omni
bus, "this is the most extraordinary thing yet. What sort of
feelings must Rosemary's friends have for her memory, rich as
they are, to dispose of her outfit, marked with her name too, in
this unfeeling way ! It looks as though they wanted to get rid
of every trace of her, and yet not lose money by the operation,
if they can help it."
She did not breathe a syllable of this adventure to the young
lady herself; till the well-known parcel-wagon of the great
Broadway establishment arrived it the evening with the box for
Miss Tankerville. It was carried up to Miss Marie's room. A
slight gravity of expression came over her at sight of it; but
when they were alone, and Miss Tankerville had opened it, and
Rosemary's glance fell upon the beautifully arranged contents
laid in the compactest form, an even surface of snowy plaits and
rich embroidery, she dropped on one knee, raised one ,of the
lighter articles with a trembling hand, and recognizing the name
sank softly down upon the carpet in a violent tremor and faint
ness.
Helen, frightened at what she had done, brought restoratives
rosemary, bending back like a young willow, put them awa
It is all right, my dear Miss Tankerville. Certainly it  '
higher Power that guides all things, How can any one commit
a crime, when they know that He so watches all  ne cour-
geous ought innocence to be when so protecte! hSet
crie wih sdde  enhusasmher dark eyes lighting up with
lambent fire, and beginning to pull out the delicate contents o
eo, and scatter them around :-"See'! not one of these

76

ROSEMARY.

i

77

J


P18S                   ROSEMARY.
inconceivable trifles is stolen or lost! They have come back
to me-all-all-all !-So will the rest-the REST!"
She rose to her feet. She drew up her figure to its graceful
height.
"Helen Tankerville !' Can you conceive that in order to pos-
sess such vanities as strew this carpet, and as the robe and
jewels yonder, a life was sought, in the most unsuspecting
moment of its dutiful happiness' For I was just doing my
duty, and happy in doing it, though I trembled. You see that
the poor prize could not remain with those who coveted it :
they will lose all as they have lost these. The money which
you have paid for it all, will come at last out of the treasure
they think they have secured: that is what I expect, Helen.
Their own act has made it irrevocably mine !-Well! I will wear
these things-no one but myself will know it-what the world
sees of Rosemary's attire they will not envy ! For do they not
possess a thousand times finer ?' But no! they are obliged to
wear mourning--black robes, like nuns, but without merit or
love. They can go to no festivities-they must defer their
nuptial plans at least till I am supposed to have been dead one
brief year! Meanwhile I am the only one of my family who
will not wear weeds: for I mourn only the living, who suffer,
but whom I must not yet try to comfort; whom I fear I could
not comfort, if I would. It is ridiculous," added Rosemary,
with a half-ashamed look, seating herself lightly on the arm of a
large easy-chair-  1 it is ridiculous to be so excited by such an
incident, but my dear Miss Helen, I am only a girl, you know,
and I could not help it."

CHAPTER IX.
.       RORY 'S RoOM--MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY.
THE young stranger had plenty of time during her convales-
cence, and that seclusion which her already enough insisted on
deficiency of proper apparel more than excused, to make her-
self well acquainted with the apartment she occupied. She had
some natural curiosity, perhaps the time hung heavily on her
hands. To the invalid every article in the sick-room becomes
dreadfully familiar, down to each particular. square of the car-
pet, each fold of window drapery, or pane of glass. The geo-
graphy of the walls and ceiling is carefully studied, especially if
tthe room is papered ; or if not (which is best) then the very
stains, the cracks, the colxvebs. Then some apartments are
eminently suggestive : a F bench littsrateur wrote when sick a
charming paper, called Le tour de ma cltambre--4 think it was.
Rosemary often considered in this spirit the various objects
m her temporary prison. There was first the very bedstead
where she lay, an architectural structure of solid mahogany such
as pertained to the best style of housekeeping some thirty or
forty years ago, before we introducedthe French patterns. t
seemed quite out of place in a'. young bachelor's room: his
grandparents might have slept out their marriedlives under its
stately canopy. So the ancient mahogany wardrobe which held
Rosemary's bridal dress. Its great solid doors blazed like suns
with the ioh veins of the wood : it was directly opposite the
bed's foot, and the light was always upon it. On the top was a
cast--the helmed and martial head of an ancient warrior. Rose-
mary was never tired of looking at it. Whatever else pertained
to a bedroom was of the same suite, such as the bureau and
tory, a very solemn piece indeed, with a cover that shut

li


80                    ROSEMARY.-
down upon the basin and ewer ; and an escritoire, with infinite
small brass-handled drawers, all of the same old golden maho-
gany. She judged with reason that these must be 1elics of Mr.
O'Morra's housekeeping days, when lie as happy with the wife
of his youth, and Master Rory was a baby.
She rather judged this, because there were also relics of a
parlor, a brass-nailed sofa and hard, roomy hair-bottomed chairs:
but there was one gloriously luxurious stuffed easy-chair,-its
place was always before the fire,-and in which Rosemary en-
joyed many a refreshing slumber ; an old-fasLioned easy-chair
in ahich two like her could have nestled, with resting-place for
the sick or weary head on either side, and great stuffed elbows
for the arms, a true invalid's " Sleepy Ho:low," such as our
fathers and mothers consecrate d to sickness, but mostly un-
known in modern bed-chambers.
Now this kind of thing, whether found in a boarding-house or
in some family residence in town or country, is essentially aris-
tocratic; which the luxurious surroundings of upstart wealth
in our Fifth Avenue palaces are not. Here are people who lived
in comfort and elegance when you, 0 gilded grandee ! kept a
candy-shop ! when your father and mother, 0 silken and ara-
besqued magnifico ! laid the foundation of your splendid fortune
by selling tripe ! An antiquity of five-and-twenty years is not
much,,it is true : but your luxury is hardly of five years date.
I know a man whom the magnates of Murray Hill and Madison
Square would consider it a great condescension to invite to their
houses ; and yet his great-grandfather spent a fortune in shoe-
ing the naked feet and clothing the shivering backs of a whole
regiment of their great-grandfathers, to persuade them to return
to Valley Forge and to the side of Washington! We consider
that we paint the character and bringing-up of Rosemary when
we say, that in spite of her own moire antique and pearls and
point lace, if she had found herself in a room filled with the
choicest and costliest sumptuosities of a Fifth Avenue mansion,
of what is called the first class, she would in her own secret
judgment have set down the 0' Morras as pretentious upstarts,
and rather despised them: whereas now she conceived that they
were certainly "a respectable family."  Not a gilt-chair and

RORY'S ROOM-MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY.           81
satin-damask family-not a rosewood and brocatelle family-.
but what we may fairly call an old mahogany family I
One effect, doubtless, was that the young lady never suspected
till she was on the mend, that it was a young man's room  she
supposed that a venerable widower, thin, severe and gray, the
original of the photograph hanging over the escritoire, had ceded
the place to the claims of her sex and dangerous sickness
"La !" said Miss Tankerville, in reply to her careless questions
"these old time affirs belonged to Rory's mother: lie values
every stick of it beyond all price."
Honor thy father and thy mother" said Rosemary, "that
thou mayst be long-lived upon the land. Your Mr. Rory is a
good son : long life to him !"
Further inspection, indeed, brought under her observation
many decidedly young-manmsj5h peculiarities  It is tr  th
when she was able to trot about and open drawers and uet
she discovered no trace whatever of masculine attire; the drat
es were empty, the shelves vacant. Rosemary appreciated the
delicacy of this: it was a silent intimation that she was t e
herself perfect at home, and so long as suited her convenimake
A timid inquiry elicited the fact from the maid who serve er,
ad tr. Rory had made himself very comfortable in the attic,
th     h   give up his room down stairs, because "he could
See eh ships there first rate.,,co
Bridget herself opened that it was too big a room for a young
gentleman, and too many things "into it," and it was mor
tul to see it occupied by a lady: and Mr. Rory thought so
too.
"The lad is a gentleman !" thought Rosenary  "Well,
cording to the old view, I honor him by occupying his aa-
ment : so we are quits !"
From the first she had noticed a good deal a certain perman
enith fitrern te wall over the sofa: it was a gun-rack filled
with olitterig arms. Then the desk contained fishing-tackle,
uethon! artificial flies, and to Rosemary's horror-a pow
draworings! bit turned out to be empty. Mixed with these
drangs architectural plans, crayons, sonnets, the commence
. novel, a tragedy complete, and a college diploma  .


RORY'S ROOM--MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY.  83

82                     ROSEMARY.
This desk, with its innumerable drawers and pigeon-holes, was
in an inconceivable hullabaloo. The keys being left in, she
considered as a tacit permission to ransack its contents, and I
am afraid that the curiosity inherited from Mother Eve did not
suffer her to desist until all the drawings had been inspected,
er e       the tragedy, the novel, to its latest unfinished chap-
ter has been diligently perused, and finally every nook and
er hof the whole concern had been reached by her inquisitive
eyesand fingers. Nay, I must except one; a secret drawer,
st cleverly concealed, but not cleverly enough to baffle
mostn'scwitit contained letters, lockets, locks of hair, old
jewelry, a perfune-bag which scented the whole desk, and a
female miniature on ivory, in the costume of twenty-five years
ago, and though not precisely beautiful, a most interesting face.
Rosemary breathed a prayer against the sin of curiosity, a
reclosed this drawer without touching anything. She fear
that she had already gone too far tut by way of acknowled
ing her impertinence to the owner the next time he opened his
escritoire, she put it carefully in order.1"arthmeoilof
"Now here," thought the young girl, Care the memorials of
past happiness. How much pride Mrs. O'Morra took in her new
furniture twenty-five years ago, when she was a bride! That
old brass-nailed sofa was thought a splendid affair, no
She has leaned her head against the side of this easy-chair
many a time; perhaps in her last illness: she breathed her last
probably under the canopy of that grand old bedstead ! Well,
well! we shall go in our turn !"
But Life was beating strongly now in the bosom of Rose-
mar, and although she indulged a pious and tender sentiment
about those who were gone, and like a good Christian breathed
a De profundis for their repose, it was the living who interested
her most. The works of art in the room had always caught her
eye, but by degrees it was upon them that her attention, con-
sciously or unconsciously, chiefly rested. The mantelpiece was
covered with sculpture, "reduced," from beautiful works of the
German Catholic School: in the centre a fine crucifix. The
wall above it was adorned with bas-reliefs in the same taste ; aid
to mark the purely artistic interest which placed them there,

they were not framed. On a pedestal in one corner stood the
Roman Pudicitia, entirely enveloped in the folds of her d'apery ;
in another, the Flora of the Capitol, the most beautiful draped
female statue of antiquity ; in another the magnificent draped
Antinous of the Lateran : these were all reduced by the method
of Collas, and of course even the slightest corrosion of the orig-
inals by time, perfectly represented. The lower part of some
sirnp'e bookshelves was occupied with the superb folios of "The
Vatican ;" and by its side, the magnificent Roman "Anatomy
for the use of Sculptors and Painters :" Miss Rosemary just
opened it and replaced the volume as speedily as possible.
Without knowing any thing of this young man's pursuits, Rose-
mary felt that nothing shot of a strictly professional interest
could account for so large an outlay in one line of art. And yet
there was not a single nude in statuary, bas-relief or ornament
outside the great volumes of the Roman collection, which the
-young, girl had not strength or patience to examine. This pu-
rity of taste in a young sculptor did not so strike her that she
formally adverted to it, but it' inspired an unconscious respect
that enhanced the sympathy which Mr. Rory's pursuits and
obvious genius excited.
Yes, there was one nude, clothed only with the divine ma-
jesty that awes every heart, the Form of the Redeemer on the
cross! Rosemary said her prayers night and morning with her
eyes fixed on this majestic Image.
It will be seen that there'was a good deal' here to interest
the feelings of a young woman whose heart was unoccupied,
but whether that of Rosemary was so, remains yet to be seen
As we have found her on then
whichesheveeemsntoheavenrthe very threshold of a marriage
which she seems to have regarded with no reluctance, we may
presume the contrary ; and that was perhaps the reason why
she appeared so extremely tranquil on the subject,
indifferent about leaving  e aqi  nth    ubet and so
indi~rct aoutleaingher seclusion and making the ac-
quaintance of Miss Tankervills's boarders.
"What sort of people were the '?"
" I  must  tell  y ou  l  a th
Tanryou al about' them         beforehand," said Miss
Tanker ville.


84                    ROSEMARY.
"Pray do, for I own that I was never in a boarding-house
before, that I remember."                in some respects
"It is a very convenient institution, though i  oerset
highly  obection e. But  mine  is  not  at  all  like  boarding-
housesin objectionable. Mybprincipal boarders have been with me
ahone im   Mr. 0 Morra, for instance, ten years: so that we
a long time,;M  ',
form one family, as it were.'t s      e       y  yyou.
"You must have begun this business very early:  y,yo
can scarcely exceed thirty-one-or two "
"I was just one-and-twenty when I opened a boarding-house
-no, that's not the phrase when1 I began to take a few board-
ers. I was a great fool to do it, though I am not sorry now.
s t     ws t long and painful a story to tell. You were ask-
But that is too logad, ar
ing about my present family .Phearour"whistory,~
"Nothing I would like so much as to hear your own   y,
my dear Miss Helen: the rest wilnkeep."s.
"if that is really so, Ii '-ill tell you my story in brief terms.
You will learn from it at least a good deal more about
ror of fashionable life in New York than you would in going to
fine parties all winter, Miss Mari6."
" That will be charming."phy-
"Thirty or forty years ago," said Helen, "there was a p
Sn the city of New York, in lucrative practice, whose name
was Tankerville, by descent a Frenchlugueot. ie had an
only sister, whom he had placed at school in the neitborhoo,
whence at the age of sixteen she ian away, and, by the strangest
of all tastes, with a Qualer. They o cried in Friends' meeting,
aid she became a member of the society, at whicn her brother
was so angry that running into the other extreme (as a Protes-
tart would say), he thought fit to  oo and wed a Catholic lady,
and to become imself a Catholic. My father (God rest him!)
always treated his sister very kindly, and when her oldest son
Ezekiel ran away in his turn, after some sad youthful scrapO
that raised the whole toyn upon him (he was a Vermont farmer,
was uncle Mannikin), my father received the boy, and as he had
-      1    t   t h mdclschool,
no son of his own, sent him to college, then to the medical scho
and finally to Paris, to make him a complete doctor; meaning
that Ezekiel should share the increasing burden of his practice

RORY'S ROOM--MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY.          85
and become his successor. As for me, who was long his only
child, I had as good an education as money could procure till I
was sixteen, when my poor mother (the Lord have mercy on
her!) died, and I was taken from my lessons to preside over the
house and to play a mother's part to an infant sister."
"Is that the young lady who has dropped in to see me several
times, and who calls you 'Miss Tankerville 3' "
"The same," with a smile. "Didn't she tell you that she
was my sister ?"
"She did, and that her name was Laura, and that she was not
yet eighteen-so I can tell your age now pretty exactly, Miss
Helen : you are in your thirty-fourth year."
"Did Laura tell you that she was married ?"
"Not she! why, I called her Miss Laura all along, and she
did not correct me."
"She has a little boy six months old, which is the reason you
have seen so little of her."
"And pray what is her matron name ?"
" Varick-Mrs. Dashon Varick:"
Rosemary started as if she had been shot.
"I dare say you know her husband's family ?"
"Is it Captain Dashou Varick of the Navy?   Yes, I know
them !" sail Miss Mari, drawing a long breath. "Pray, is
Captain Varick at home ?"
"lHe has been absent a year on a three years' cruise, and of
course has never seen his boy : that's one of the pleasant things
about marrying a sailor."
"lie is a great deal older than your sister," observed Rose-
mary.
"I should hope so, since she is under eighteen, and he com-
mands a frigate. Capt. Varick, however, is a year younger
than I am, Miss, and that is very young for his position."
"Well, I knew-tlat-that-Ca)t. Varick had married very
much against the wishes of his family, but I either never heard
the lady's name mentionedsor I had forgotten it: I wasrd
school at the time. Is there ir      s
.eeany intercourse ?"
"The Varicks have never taken the slightest notice of us
since nor we of them," said Miss Tankerville, with a comical air.

4, ,


86                    ROSEMARY.
"I believe, however, that it is not the first mssalliance which
their people have contracted, for all they are such grand seig-
neurs at present. There was Capt. Varick's cousin, handsome
Dick Dashon, whom all the girls of my school-days were in love
with, myself among the number !"--laughing gaily, though
with a slight tremor of the voice:--" what did he do but make
a clandestine match with the daughter of his French teacher !
Certainly that was worse than a Tankervillel'
Rosemary blushed vividly.
"Dick Dashon's daughter is now a great heiress, they say;
and the Varicks wanted the Captain to make up to her; but he
is a brave honest sailor, and preferred a simple-hearted girl with
some beauty and the greatest innocence, although she might be
the sister of 'a lady who keeps a boarding-house,' to all the
pproi heiresses in creation."
The color had mounted to Rosemary's brow at the beginning
of Miss Tankerville's last speech, as if she were about to make
an indignant rejoind'er ; but she cooled down, bit her lip in vexa-
tion, and ended by smiling outright.
"I remember when the name of Dr. Tankerville was as re-
spectable in the city as that of Dr. Varick-"
"Capt. Varick's father," observed Rosemary.
" Precisely. Our house gathered everything that was distin-
guished in the city at that time :-Dr. Post, Mitchell, Francis,
Stevens, Mott, Cheeseman, and old Augustine Smith. were my
father's intimates. Our house was on Broadway, and my father
was one of the three doctors who then made visits in a chariot:
Dr. Varick used a gig." .
"It is a clear case!" said Rose Marie, laughing.
"About two years after my dear mother's death, an addition
was made to our forlorn domestic circle by the return of my
cousin Ezekiel, who immediately began practice under my fath-
er's eye. It was a very agreeable addition too, for Ezekiel had
seen the world, and was a very accomplished man as well as a
thoroughly taught physician. He had not only studied in Paris
but travelled very extensively, even to the furthest East. I need
not describe his person, as it is well known to you: he was then
a young man under thirty, not handsome certainly, but very

RORY S ROOM--MISS TANKERVILLE S STORY.         87
distinguished, with nothing of the Quaker about him, but an oc-
casional thee and thou which escaped him when excited having
in dress conformed to this sinful worldaand the latest fashions
of Paris. Some early escapades of his in a country school, his
adventures as a teacher of calligraphyin six lessons, which
ended by his being kicked down stairs by an indignant pupil
whose cash he had taken according to his invariable rule in ad-
vance, and the failure of an attempt to make a fortune by the
invention of a patent medicine, were F'orgotten even in Vermont,
and I should only have known them by hearing my father amuse
some confidential friend years before, when I was a mere child,
with the recital of these juvenile achievements of his quaker
nephew. There was only one point on which my father took
an early opportunity to give me a warning : which was to be
careful to regard my cousin Ezekiel simply as a cousin, inaiuch
- as the prime of his youthful scrapes had been a very injudicious
marriage, and his wife, though separated from him for many
years, was still living."
"Dr. Mannikin is married ! Ah ! but he is a widower at pre-
sent ?" said Rosemary with an air of surprise.
"He a widower ! No such good, news for him as that, my
dear! Mrs. Mannikin lives in this very house, mademoiselle !
She is one of my boarders."
"You astonish me. She is, then, a woman--of-good char-
acter ?" asked Rosemary, uneasily and dubiously, almost a
little frightened.
"Exemplary, though extremely poor ! To tell you the truth,
my dear, it was she who was your nurse while you needed such
attendance.'
"What! that quiet, kind Mrs. Grace, so humble, so shy, so
lady-like ! She is a lady, then ?" said Rosemary.
" If Dr. Mannikin be a gentleman (which should not admit of
a doubt),. his wife should be a lady. Please, however, not to
call her Mrs. Mannikin, as it would be disagreeable to her. She
lives in mortal fear of her husband, who, she thinks, has studied
the subject of Poisons so profoundly, in order to get rid of her
without detection. The day he was here to visit you, she con-
cealed herself in the closet in order to see him unobserved--for


88                     ROSEMARY.
the first time in ten years. The scene between you and the
doctor impressed her profoundly. Peeping down from behind
the little round window over your bed, she could see your face
and his perfectly without being seen : and it was startling
enough to any one, I assure you; so you may imagine what she
felt. I see that your indignation is rising, Rosemary !"
The expressive countenance and figure of Rose Marie con-
veyed, indeed, a most energetic abhorrence: but mixed with a
blush of virgin pride.
"I believe," said she, calmly, with her great eyes fixed on
Miss Tankerville, " that  that man is capable of the worst ac-
tions. A married man!"
"Indeed, my dear, you look at this moment, as if, were he
herbyou could annihilate him."
"That poor Mrs. Grace !"
"Yes! there is a life and a. heart crushed ! She once had
beauty; and she loves that man still. lie had not only ill-used,
betrayed and deserted, but traduced and persecuted her. He
has alleged as the reason of his abandonment that her child
was not his; although the boy, now a man, and grown up his
father's -very image, is the living demonstration of his mother's
fidelity. But the real motive was that Mrs. Mannikin was
under-bred; not that exactly; country-bred is the word ; a
plain little body ; he never could teach her fashionable man-
ners; she would not, could not, drop certain provincialisms that
offended Ezekiel's delicate taste; in society she eternally ex-
coriated his pride. Hence he separated from her after a few
years, but while he was still only twenty-one or two; it was
before he graduated in medicine ; for he was a student at col-
lege when they married; a foolish, runaway affair just like his
mother's. If he had not feared Mr. O'Morra, who is distantly
related to poor Mrs. Grace, and secretly maintains her, he
would have sued for a divorce; but Cahal O'Morra told him:
'Do it, and I will tear your character into such shreds on the
trial, that it will never be patched together again in this
world!' "
"Good for Cahal O'Morra !" cried Roscmary, with vehemence.
"My father," continued Miss Tankerville, "supposed that

RORY'S ROOM--MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY.         89
Ezekiel's charges against his wife were true, and he conse-
quently did not blame his nephew for the separation, though he
did for forming so imprudent a connection, which he never ex-
pected would turn out well. He praised him also for not seek-
ing a divorce, which a Catholic could not regard as authorizing
him to marry again : but he thought fit to let me know how
matters stood, with many expressions of pity for the situation in
which so fine a young man, with such excellent prospects, was
placed by a juvenile folly..
"So I was prepared to receive my cousin with the greatest
affection and respect ; and when my father introduced him to
me one day at dinner, and he looked so decidedly distinguished
in his Paris-made clothes, and with his grand travelled manner,
and said, kissing me on both cheeks"-Rosemary made a little
wilful pout:-" 'My fair cousin will pardon me, I am sure for
asserting the privilege of saluting her!' if anybody was ever
captivated with a relation under those circumstances, it was I,
"This was at the, beginning of the winter, and partly to ex-
tend Ezekiel's acquaintance-for my father treated him exactly
like a son, and partly to introduce me into society, as I was
now fully eighteen, we gave a large party. Among people of
course invited were Dr. and Mrs. Varick, and they asked an in-
vitation for their nephew and niece, a young Mr. and Mrs.
George Varick-oh ! no doubt you know them-who had then
been married only a year or two. I was curious to see Mrs.
George. because she was a cousin of Dick Dashon's. and report
said she had been much chagrined at his marriage to the French
teacher's daughter that I told you about-if you remember?"
" Oh ! I remember perfectly," said Rosemary, in a very sar-
castic tone.
"Now I don't know who you are, my dear Miss Marid-but'
if I am going to wound your feelings by saying hard things by
and by about the Varicks-if you belong to them, perhaps
had better stop."
"Say anything you please about them : if it be true, I shall not
be wounded," said Rosemary with a rather demure look.
"Well, then : Mrs. George Varick was invited to m  art
she came, she was beautiful, she was the most exquisitely

.
: :
_


00                     ROSEMARY.
dressed woman there, she captivated everybody, my cousin
Ezekiel especially, and myself. She visited me in a very short
time afterwards, and I returned the call forthwith. It became
an intimacy, she would drop in almost daily to see me, and
sometimes stay to dinner-take 'pot-luck,' as she called it: for
my dear new friend was a trifle vulgar sometimes---"
Rosemary blushed.
"Sometimes Ezekiel made up parties to go to the theatre to-
gether, Mrs. Varick to matronize me : she was a great conve-
nience on many occasions when I wished to enjoy fashionable
pleasures and needed a matron friend in order to do so with pro-
priety. The world, indeed, smiled upon me then, although
some of my graver friends advised me not to go out so much with
Mrs. Geo. Varick, as she was extravagant, giddy, too fond of ad-
miration, and all that ; and her husband as fast as herself in a
different way and perhaps less reputable ; and a young lady's
matrimonial chances would not be improved by such associations
with her name ; and then I would try to be less with her ; but
bless you! it was impossible : Mrs. Varick was more adhesive
than a burr, or down, or what you will.
"But there was an epidemic that summer, and my gayety
was changed to sorrow, my dressing for parties put a stop to by
putting on mourning once more ; death succeeded to the stir of
life at eighteen: my father was visiting his patients from morn-
ing to night, almost from night to morning ; he slept in his
clothes, he ate in his carriage, I used myself to bring him the
little he would take, at last he was himself attacked and died in
a few hours ! There was a funei al, a quiet one, all friends who
could get away, out of town ; and 1 was left alone in the world
at nineteen, with a little sister just beginning to talk,.and Eze-
kiel.Mannikin for my nearest and almost-sole male relative. It
was he who led me out of the room before the coffin-lid was
screwed down, after the last look of heart-broken anguish and
almost faithless despair.

D
CHAPTER X.
MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY coNTINUED --     FALLING  FROM
GRAcE."
"THE house we lived in at the time of my father's death, he
had built expressly according to his own ideas, about seven
years before, a period when he considered himself a very wealthy
man for a physician. It was a London basement, with three
stories above the basement, and attics. The lot extended to the
back street, where there was a stable and carriage-house with
a large and pleasant yard intervening, with a trellised grapery
flower-beds, grass-plat, and a sunny exposure ; a lovely place
for a child to play. The rent in those times was estimated at
only $1,200: but that was before the gold of California had
Come in. At that tie the Broadway omnibuses use'd to stop
at the corner of .Bleecker street. I have no doubt my father
hoped that his children would continue to occupy this house for
many years after he was dead and gone,
" He occupied the entire basement for his office and library:
as he always had students, it was necessary. A back-buildin
afforded a dining-room on the same floor with the basement,
and a billiard-room above, which when my mother gave her
great annual party (in the month of January, after the bills of
the preceding twelvemonth had been collected), was converted
into a dancing-room. The drawing-room suite was imported
from Paris; it was the talk of the city at the time; and as it
ws always kept covered with brown linen except on occasion
of the great parties before mentioned, New Year's Day, and the
lie solemnities, the satin and gilding were absolutely as fresh
as the day it was unpacked. The enormous French mirrors
.ui tables ani -such,' never could lose their value. The cur-
tains and carpets were new that year. The old doctors of that


MISS TANKERVILLE S STORY, CONTINUED.

time lived splendidly. Dr. Tankerville was fond of entertaining
his professional brethren, and men of science from other cities
or the old world. He had choice wines in his cellar ; his side-
board was full of plate ; his portrait and my mother's,
painted by Inman, looked down upon his guests; and they used
to smoke their cigars afterwards in his library, filled with the
choicest medical and scientific authors. It was while he was in
this opulent feeling that he undertook Ezekiel's education,
which cost him, on an average, a thousand a year for ten years.
He could still lay by $5000 annually, for the interest on his
accumulation amounted to that ; and Dr. Tankerville was the
reverse of a miser.
"But (not to be too precise) about four years before his
death, my father began to experience heavy losses. In the first
place, the large dividends then made by the insurance compan-
ies tempted, himto invest .a very considerable part of his fortune
in insurance stock, and he considered himself perfectly secure
because he had but a moderate amount in each institution: but
then came an event which nobody had foreseen, the great fire of
1835, which swamped all the companies in the . city in one
night. I remember being rather protd to tell my companions
of the amount my father had lost by this general disaster. I
had little idea what a difference it was going to make in my
destinies.
"My father said that few of the sufferers could bear it better:
he had.as much left as he had lost, and a large professional
income,,and was only. fifty.years old; he had twenty years of
work in him yet, and he would. die . rich. Two years later, a
bank which suspended in '37, and in which he held a hundred
shares, was one of the few that did not recover: the cashier had
robbed it; he was the near. relative of one of Dr. Tankerviile's
professional friends ; efforts were made to hush it up, and suc-
cessfully : my father pocketed his own loss without a word,
for an exposure, as the young man was just married, would
have carried disgrace to more than one proud fireside. The
name of the defaulting cashier was Varick."
Rosemary reddened.
" These were losses to bite deep into a professional fortune.

For all that, considering there were only two of us, both daugh-
ters, we were left well provided for. My father's will, which he
executed just before the epidemic-.for he seemed to have a
presentiment that summer would be fatal to him-gave me the
house on Broadway, with all the furniture, plate, pictures,
horses, carriages, excepting only the medical books and things
in the office. Two houses in Walker street, rent $550 each
were left to Laura, to avoid trouble about .settling the real
estate ; and to her also, as a set-off to the furniture, was
bequeathed the sum of $6,500, loaned on bond and mortgage.
The remainder of the estate consisted of the balance at the
bank (Chemical), which at that time of the year began to run
low, and the bills of the year yet uncollected : after paying
charges, legacies, and current accounts, the net residue, which
actually amounted to nearly $9,000, was to be divided equally
between Laura and myself. Till Laura came of age, or mar-
ried with my consent, I was to enjoy the income of her portion
as well as of my own, in order to provide for her maintenance
and education."
"A   very reasonable will," said  Rosemary.  "And   Dr
Mannikin ?"
"To Ezekiel my father bequeathed his medical library the
office-furniture, instruments, medicines, &amp;c., and $500 a year
for, two years; or, if I continued to live in the house, the rent
of the basement free for that period; assigning as his reasons,
that Ezekiel had already a sufficient practice fo hi persona
support, and that in two years more his success ought to be
assured."
" Considering'that your father had already spent $10,000 on
his education: that was liberal enough," said Rosemary. "I
admit that if your father had not met severe losses, he might have
well done more, A man is not like a girl ; he can make money;
all he wants is a start."
"Ezekiel nevertheless was very angry at the will. He said
the $500 should have been $1,000, and for five years insteadaof
two: it was well enough to give him a library; he would be
oiged to sell it to pay his board : Dr. Tankerville might at least
have left him one of the horses for his buggy. The buggy, by

92

ROSEMARY.

93


94                     ROSEMARY.
the way had been a New-Year's present from my father. He
had the indelicacy, as Mr. O'Morra considered it, to say so to
me, and I replied immediately:
"'Cousin Ezekiel, my father was afraid of seeming to injure
his daughters, but he has left me the income of the whole prop-
erty because he knew that I would do whatever was right:---
you shall have a thousand a year for five years, and a horse, "
" Did he accept it'?"w
"Of course he did ; but Mr. O'Morra, who was trustee as well
as executor, obliged him to take the horse he was actually
using; for Ezekiel wanted one of the pair my father drove in his
chart which would have spoiled the span, for they were beau-
tifull matched in action, height and color ; not fast, but a
showy team for city use, and brought $800 at the sale.
"The next thing was to consider what was to be done with
us, and whether or not there should be a sale. Mr. O'Morra'
would not allow that there could be a question on the last
point. Dr. Mannikin insisted that my father had contemplated
our remaining in the house, and keeping all together. I was
of Dr. Mannikin's opinion, both because he bad great influence
over me, much greater than Mr. O'Morra, whom I thought very
cold and stern and unsympathizing, while Ezekiel was smooth
as oil, and plausible even in his selfishness ; and more than
that, my own feelings vehemently inclined to that side. The
idea of breaking up, selling our furniture at auction, quitting
the house where I had passed so many happy years, where Laura
was born,;here my parents had died, and going to live among
strangers, to board after having been mistress of a fine estab-
lishment, seemed to be perfectly unendurable. Nor was it at
all impossible to keep up the house on the means I had. By
selling the horses and carriages, and letting the stable, I could
increase my income to $2,000 clear, and as I had no house-rent
to pay, I could easily get along with that,- and board Ezekiel,
who was willing to take the $500 I had promised him, in
that shape. Of course I could not keep four servants: two,
would have to serve my turn, and Dr. Mannikin must hire a
little boy to answer the bell. I fought for this project with
desperation. Mr. O'Morra declared that it was a thing unheard-

MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY, CONTINUED.          95
of in our situation: an unmarried girl of nineteen with a little
sister of three, to live in a. four-story house by themselves--.-
'With their nearest relation, sir,' says Dr. Mannikin.
"'A man under thirty, sir,' says Mr. O'Morra.
"'A married man,' retorts the doctor.
'Bring home your wife to live with you, and I withdraw
my objections,' replies Mr. O'Morra, with his bitterest smile.
"This was a home-thrust. I felt indignant in behalfof Eze-
kiel, all whose actions and motives Mr. O'Morra saw in the worst
light. But that gentleman was inflexible. In vain I represented
to him that my father evidently wished his children and Dr.
Mannikin, whom he regarded as a son, to keep together; in
vain I represented the advantage to Laura of a home education,
and the cruelty of scattering all our dearest associations; and
showed him how easy it was for me to procure the companion-
ship of a respectable widow, if propriety demanded it. I never
had an idea before of a man who could resist the entreaties of
a young nd not uninteresting woman. He was my trustee; he
had power to sell the personal property and invest the pro-
ceeds:  t   ower was given to be used; my interest plainly
aquied it to be used. Was 1 to lose $1,000 of income, and live
at double the expense I needed, and have my property, an es-
sential and important part, he would observe, of my little for-
atedaway and depreciate upon my hands, years before
I was settled, before I knew whom I should marry, or whether
I should marry at all, merely to promote the interests of Dr.
M aiers   So it was settled that there was to be a sale; ap-
paisers ofame i to catalogue the furniture, and I had to make
a list of the articles that I wished to retain, and submit it to the
tyans Ocorra. As every cent I had in the world was in his
hands, -could only obey.
'"While these dicsinwee      ndn
the citybee discussions Were pending, the frosts had set in,
tue became perfectly healthy, and numbers of my friends
returned to townf:among the rest my friend Mrs. Varick, who
on t the ist note of danger, and taken refuge in Ver-
mont. It so happened that she had rusticated in Ezekiel's native
village, where she picked up many anecdotes of his early years ;
y knew at a later period. She came in imme-

4


96                     ROSEMARY.
diately to see me, and found me preparing for the sale. She
entered fully into my sentiments on the subject, declared that
Mr. O'Morra was a perfect brute, but after all she suggested
some consolations. Money, she observed, was the great lever;
these things would go off well at the present time, while Dr.
Tankerville's reputation and the style in which he lived were
fresh in people's minds, whereas in a few years, all this being
forgotten, and new styles coming in, they would sell for a song
I must go into society again by and by, and then I would find
the advantage of a nice income, and of having plenty to spare
for my toilette. In the meantime I must absolutely come and
live with her. She would take no denial, and if I liked I might
pay for my board, to give me more independence. I expressed
a fear that Mr. Varick might not relish such an arrangement.
' Oh Varick would like it of all things.'--But I should sadden
them all by my mourning, and low spirits-I should be quite
out of place.-' Oh! I was mistaken there-a great change
come over her, I must know. The sad events of this summer had
produced their due effect upon her, I might depend. She was
no longer what she had been, I would find !' In fact, I had al-
ready observed a slight difference in the exterior of my friend'
her dress, though very rich, was in soberer colors, her bonnet
(white uncut velvet with a plume) was decidedly plain, and she
wore her hair in simple bandeaux, instead of long rinlets, as
used to be her jaunty custom :-I had never seen Mrs. Varick
so pathetically elegant. On making proper inquiries, I learned
that she had been sitting under the preaching of an eminent
Methodist in Vermont, and had experienced religion !"
Rosemary laughed. "That's Isabel Varick to the life !" said
she, as if involuntarily.r
" I see you know her. Well, she took in reality Mr. O'Mor-
ra's part, and left me convinced that his course, though cruel
and despotic, was nevertheless dictated by common sense, and
in a worldly point of view greatly for my interest. She did not
say anything against Dr. Mannikin, for whom on the contrary
she professed a special regard, and yet she contrived to let fall
remarks that aroused me, touching his youthful antecedents,
his having been a. 'gay young man,' and so on, and the censo-

MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY, CONTINUED.          97
riousness of the world, so that I resolved to make
a virtue of necessity, and ceased to repine at ta at all events
our family decreed by the inexorable O'Morra r
"O'Morra himself was not slow to erceive the change, and
Mrs. Varick, the first time she met him aut the house, soon let
him know the cause of it.-r-' I have been saying osele
O'Morra'-and--.'It's very natural Miss Tankerville's feelings
should be pained by these inevitable changes, vut I tell her she
will see it in a very different light a yeahnebutI set ery
few women, and no man at all thatyever Inew,    crt
Mrs. Variick, when she chs t -    ee    knew, could, resist
Mrs Vaic, wen  hechose to fascinate; and Mr. 0 Morra,
who saw in her only a beautiful and scint wan, beOogra,
to one of the first families in the city, learned with evident plea-
sure that she had invited me to spend the winterit  e-.
that was the way she put it to him;  d ater with her---for
was not necessary, I was glad not to encounter  his  con.
" The sale then came offadh ris opposition,
"Th  sae ten  ameoffand was not so heart-b1.eakil g an
affair as I expected. i know I was very much pleased to find
that the things brought such good prices. I kept only the plate,
the family pictures, some books and a few favorite articles, e,
deared by too sacred associations for m  e vrt artwith tem.
I had a terrible fit of crying the nightme ever to part with them.
puzzled Mr. O'Morra extremely, for he thought atirely
reconciled to the thing Hoerhetout I was -entirely
recnciedto hethig.However, when he had the auctioneer's
cheque the day after, for a sum that exce  by evaltinrs
dreds my father's estimate of this part ede m y  seade
little account of my sentimental tepart of my portion, he made
"This was my first battle with Cabal O'Morra, in which he
was victorious. The next I won, in behalf f Ezekin Ahichng
and wealthy physician. justlfofcoek.e. A young
ans wealth hyins MjustVcommencing practice, offered a large
Once. for the house.r. Eorra wished to accept the offer at.
once. On the other hand Ezekiel, defeated i  i is  ln  a
found me a tenant in a lady who w  ated  his first plan, had
ble boarding-house, for which the location ws ementy fashiona-
ble. She could not giveaboubuctn was eminently suita-:
ble  Sh cold ot ivea bonus, but she offered to advanceo
the rent. Ezekiel contended that th'is  offered o eadyance on
interest, as it was certainly vital toyis ecas euay rm
going-to let him the front basement as, bece t alywas
5  .en              as an office. I absolutely


ROSEMARY.

MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY, CONTINUED.

98

set down my foot here that Ezekiel's plan should be followed.
lie ought not to be, and he should not be, with my consent, de-
prived of the advantage of keeping my father's well-known
stand'-to use a business word. I talked so high and so fi: mly
to Mr. O'Morra on this point that he fairly backed out of his
position, and let me have my own way, though the loss of the
bonus was a bitter pill for him.--' What is the bonus to me, sir,'
cried I, 'compared to the success of my cousin, Dr. Maninikin,
and to the meanness of selling my father's professional eminence
out of the family, against his own adopted professional son ! I
will never consent to it.'"
"You. certainly behaved well to Dr. Mannikin," observed
Rosemary.
"You shall 'see how he repaid me. I went to Mrs. Varick's
at first for a visit, then to remain. Now that she had become a
'member of the church,' and went to prayer-meetings every
morning at 6 o'clock-for the epidemic was followed by a gene-
ral and serious awakening in New York ; and had forsworn the
theatre and balls, and low-necked dresses, and fancy dances,
and subscribed to the Bible Society, and was one of the Lady
Managers of the Moral Reform Society, and all that; nobody
thought it was dangerous for me: to be intimate with her, or to
become an inmate of her family. Many excellent persons
thought, on the contrary, that I might be converted myself. I
could not help seeing that I had got into a school of piety. The
Rev. Mr. Craffit, Mrs. Varick's revivalist, who had come to New
York for the winter to assist the work graciously going on there,
talked to me in a corner of Mrs. Varick's drawing-room one
entire evening on the state of my soul. I should make you
laugh, and seem to be trifling with sacred things, if I were to
tell you some things that he said to me. I had not the least
doubt at the time that he was a very good man, yet it seemed
to me very funny, and I shocked Isabel Varick exceedingly by
telling her that if the man were not married, I should have
thought that he was in love with me.-' In love with you!' she
exclaimed. 'He is in love with all poor souls! lHe burns with
an inextinguishable desire for your salvation: that's all !'--I was
not more than half convinced, and an instinct that seldom de-

ceives a young woman, and which a girl, who goes to Confes-
sion, Rosemary, early learns to obey, made me avoid having
any more conversations with the Rev. Mr. Craffi-.
"Dr. Mannikin, of course, was our constant visitor, and he
became deeply serious--now don't laugh! It was at that time
that he resumed partially the Quaker garb, which was then as-
sociated in the public mind with several eminent medical and
surgical.names. I found it quite impossible to keep my coun-
tenance when I first saw him with a straight collar and cut-
away coat and top-boots and knee-buckles. Somehow or other,
though, he had contrived to give the costume a natty air; he
never wore drab; lie compromised on black, as the less strict
Friends do; and then his figure was perfect; he was not so lean
and cadaverous as he is now; Isabel Varick approved the change
heartily.-' It is for Ezekiel's interest,' she would say. 'Don't
you see, my dear? he advertises himself wherever he goes!
People say: who is that? and the answer is: Dr. Mannikin, the
Quaker doctor. Thus he becomes universally known. I con-
sider it a very good card.'
"There was one individual of whom I necessarily saw a good
deal, who did not partake of the general seriousness. That was
Mr. Varick."-Rosemary slightly laughed again.--" He 'would
not be converted, though I am afraid no one needed it more,
Finding that I, as a Catholic, was suspicious of the genuineness
of the work, he imparted to me very freely his own views of it
which were not at all complimentary to the good sense or sin
cerity of those who who professed so extraordinary an interest in
religion."
"Don't you think he was mistaken there ?" asked Rosemary.
"I for one believe that there is a great deal of sincerity in these
good people."
"Perhaps. I was unlucky, then, to tumble into a nest of
regular hypocrites. I really cannot tell you, Rosemary, what
reason I have for using so strong a word. Mrs. Varick, for in-
stance, could not have been so self-deceived as to suppose that
she was really trying to be gool at this time. Be that as it may
--be as charitable as you please-she did' not persevere very
long. She fell from grace next winter certainly. Methodists,

99


MISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY, CONTINUED.

ROSEMARY.

you know, believe in falling from grace. The revival passed,
like other American excitements, and the fashionable world in-
demnified itself by plunging deeper than ever into frivolity. It
was about the time that I laid aside, with tears and a tender
sorrow, my filial mourning. Mrs. Varick presided over the re-
organization of my wardrobe, and introduced me again to society.
She taught me how to spend my money, and as if my personal
expenditure were not enough, being almost always short of cash,
borrowed of me too-small sums, tens, twenties, fifties-till I
grew alarmed at the depletion of my purse, and Mr. O'Morra,
to whom I was forced to repair for funds, grew angry and re-
fused to let me anticipate my income.
"Then I was witness to some domestic scenes between my
friend and her husband which were not very edifying. If Mrs.
Varick was at a party almost every night, and returned home
at one or two in the morning, or even later, her husband, who
usually, though not always, accompanied her, had his own way
of enjoying society, and while she was dancing and flirting, he
was smoking, drinking and playing cards up stairs. When he
went home with us, he was over-polite to me, alternately rude
and over-loving to his wife, and that was his best return: for
when he did not return with us, or perhaps had not accompan-
ied us, he was usually carried up stairs :-I never saw anybody
look so astonished as you do, Rosemary ! That's nothing.
Think of the next morning's quarrel, the frightful tempers dis-
played, the hours of sullenness : then dressing, driving, shopping,
dining, dressing again, and the theatre, the opera, the party :
the same eternal round ! Yet I thought I enjoyed it: for in
spite of all the horrors of which I could not best be sensible, I
had many partners,, some suitors, and I hoped, as I ardently
wished, to be married-don't laugh at me for that is just the truth.'
"It is a common case," said Rosemary, quietly.
"But mine was not exactly a common motive, Rosemary.
If it were, I would not perhaps acknowledge the fact so frankly.
I had not forgotten my duties in all this dissipation, though I
fear I much neglected them; and my idea of marriage was a
home for Laura, not a boarding-house (the sole alternative to
my present position) mixed up with gossiping maiden ladies

and selfish old bachelors, and indolent married women; nor the
house of a fashionable friend ; but a home for the child, my own
house and home, where I could bring her up in virtue and sim-
plicity, as I had been brought up. I began once more to feel
that Mr. O'Morra's worldly wisdom had been folly, when he
broke up our father's house, sold its household gods (so to
speak), and prevented my keeping our family together, such as
it was. We were three, Ezekiel and my sister and 1: Ezekiel
my father's adopted son, as it were ; and so long as we stood
together we should have been a respectable something, and now
we were nothing. Ezekiel might then have turned out a better
man, or if not, he could not have harmed us ; for the family
bond turns poison itself into food.
- "I used to pray that I might be married : for I saw no other
escape from my position---."
"In old times," interrupted Rosemary, "the place for ladies
situated as you were, and as I am, would.be some fine old con-
vent, as parlor boarders, where we might stay for ever if we
liked it better. We have got boarding-houses instead: by your
account it is no great improvement."
"Not a bit. Well, I did not get a husband by praying for one.
An invisible something that surrounded me prevented the right
kind of man from approaching. It is unpardonable, I know, in
an old maid to boast of her offers, but just in the way of history,
I may observe that I had enough opportunities to marry if I
could have been so contented. My suitors were of various
sorts, but not a straight piece of wood, clear-grained and sound-
hearted among them 'i Can you account for that.?"
- "Not I, indeed," said Rosemary.  "I am sure there were
plenty of the right sort in that circle then, as now."
"So there were :-I knew some of them-at a distance."
"And you were young, rich enough, of a good family not
the most hideous creature that ever I saw"-with an ingenuous
smile,-" and very agreeable. No, I don't understand it at all."
"I dare say not," replied Miss Tankerville, slowly, and ear-
nestly scanning Rosemary's face. "I hardly know whether to
enlighten you or not. Why'should you know such horrors 1"
"Horrors ?" repeated Rosemary, bewildered.

100

101


102

ROSEMARY.

"You have not, then, understood a word that I have been
telling you ? It was my cousin Ezekiel and my friend Mrs.
Varick (who, I suspect, is a cousin or something of 3 ours), who
caused my isolation from the good and self-respecting people of
the society we all moved in. Mrs. Varick's first prodigious
friendship for me grew out of the face, that by visiting me she
constantly met Dr. Mannikin. M  living with her afterwards
gave a pretext for his incessant visits. People who knew the
world soon found this out; and no matter whether they consid-
ered me as the victim or the accomplice of my worthless friends,
they naturally avoided me."
"I am not over-quick, I hope," said Rosemary, hastily, "in
understanding what I ought not to understand ; but you have
said enough now to make me comprehend the relations between
--Isabel Varick and y our cousin ; so pass over all that, I pray."
--She shuddered slightly.-" After that revelation all difficul-
ties vanish," added she, in a low tone: "a bad woman and her
paramour-they will shrhk from nothing, of course."
"You have hit it now exactly, and you shall hear now what
they did not shrink from in my case---"
"Pardon me !" interrupted Rosemary, with apprehension.
"I would rather not hear any details !"-
"Fear nothing-why 3 our cheek is all a-fire !-Since you
understand the fact, I shall not again allude to it. What you
are going to hear about is merely cold cruelty-matter for your
indignation and your pity, not your blushes."

CHAPTER XI.
A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.
WE hope that our readers are now sufficiently interested in
Miss Tankerville, to bear a slight description of that lady's
personal appearance, which for certain reasons we have hitherto
abstained from giving.
She was tall-it is the only point we have mentioned-taller
than Rosemary, whose height was sufficient for female dignity,
but we have not intimated yet, what was really the fact, that
her figure was finely proportioned. She wore either black or
very dark dresses of silk in the evening ; her gorget was gene-
rally cut a la Pompadour, with a lace fichu, because her neck
was like alabaster. Her dark-brown hair, which was abundant
and glossy, but without an atom of curl, she wore in plain
bands, disappearing behind in a large classic knot, which she
coifed very elegantly in the evening with inexpensive ornaments
of gold and coral. Her complexion was dark, but clear; her
eyes nearly black ; her features regular; her mouth large but
handsome, with very white, and beautiful teeth, which she
showed a good deal in smiling, and the smile itself quite pecu-
liar. It reminded Rosemary of Dr. Mannikin: it seemed a
family trait ; but the character of Miss Tankerville's smile was
satire. In short her face would have been eminently handsome,
but for a too great massiveness of the chin, which detracted
from the feminine softness of her expression. In her youth
this would scarcely have been perceived, and even at four and
thirty, with her admirable figure, and her great conversational
powers, she was undoubtedly a woman of rare attractions, al-
though it was her lot to keep a boarding-house. How this had
come to be her lot, when she had started in life with a fine in-
4ependence, was what excited Rosemary's curiosity.


104               ROSEMARY.

"For the reasons which I have before mentioned," pursued
Miss Tankerville, " I was resolved to set up housekeeping for
myself, as soon as I came of age. That you may see that this-
was a perfectly feasible idea, I will show you what my means
were when, soon after my twenty-first birth-day, Mr. O'Morra
settled his account with me, as executor. I had my house on
Broadway, which he estimated at $18,000, and $11,500 in con-
vertible securities. The net income of this property (deducting
taxes, repairs, &amp;c.,) was $1,900. I had also the income of
Laura's portion, till she came of age, which was about $1,800
net: making my whole receipts exactly $3700; out of which
for the next three years I had promised to pay Dr. Mannikin
$1,000 a year, leaving me just $2,700, clear cash income. This
was a much larger sum then than now, that the flux of gold
from California has nearly doubled the expense of living in New
York.
"I frankly avowed my intentions to Mr. O'Morra, and some-
what to my surprise, he approved of them highly. He merely
advised me, as summer was already advanced, to wait till Fall,
and in the meantime to buy a house in a suitable locality. He
thought that I could advantageously invest $10,000 in such a
purchase, which would still leave me $1,500 to employ in fur-
nishing it, to which I could add about a thousand more, compris-
ing the income of my first quarter, which lie now paid me in
advance, and cash on hand, so that I could begin without a
penny of debt: for $2,500 ought to furnish my house very pret-
tily. I assure you that I felt extimely opulent, while I listened
to all these calculations. I feared, however, that the sum he
proposed my investing in a house was too large: it was almost
twice as much as I had thought of.
"'It is not a bit too much,' said he. 'Why you will be mar-
ried before you have been at housekeeping a twelvemonth.'
"' That's a delightful prediction!' said I, 'but I fear too good
to come true.'
"'Why, aren't you engaged yet ? said he.
"' As far from.it as ever, I assure you,' said I. 'I've been
trotting out to parties all winter, dancing till two in the morning,

A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.             105
besides being dreadfully good all winter before last, o ut neither
dancing nor praying has brought me a husband.'
"'Well, that is puzzling,' said he, bending on me his piercing
eyes.
I see no way to manage it, sir,' said I, laughing, I sup-
pose, to baffle his scrutiny, 'unless I advertise in the Herald:--
A handsome young woman, just come of age, with upwards of
$2,500 clear income, and of good family, wishes to make the
immediate acquaintance of a gentleman of agreeable exterior
and good moral character, with a view to matrimony. Unex-
ceptionable references given and required. A professional gen-
tlenian under thirty will receive a preference !'--And I laughed
again : for Mr. O'Morra looked amusingly serious.
"'You read the Herald-do you ?' said he.
"'Mrs. Varick makes her daily meditation on it, sir,' said I,
' and often reads me the matrimonial and other amusing adver-
tisements. It is strange people should be such fools as to ad-
vertise for such things, isn't it?'
"'More knaves than fools. I would advise you not to read
such advertisements, or if you do, not to speak of them,' said
he, with a clearing brow. 'And so you are really despairing of
matrimony '-He smiled again.
"'I am too indifferent on the subject to despair,' said I, 'but
frankly, marriage does not enter into my plans for the future at
all. All that I contemplate or desire is to have a house for
Laura, who is getting spoiled. I shall devote myself to her
education, and by the time it is finished, I shall be an old maid.'
"'Rather than that should happen,' said he, with a'singular
contortion of countenance, 'I would marry you myself.'
I am infinitely obliged to you,' said I, and was going to
add something very saucy ; but as Mr. O'Morra was under forty
at that time, without a gray hair in his head, I blushed, I be-
lieve, and concluded in a different way from that I intended, by
saying: 'if I get quite desperate, sir, I shall know where to
apply.'
"lie looked very grim at this, and I would have given the
world to take it back, which of course I neither could nor
would, and I could not help thinking as I went away what


106                   ROSEMARY.
fools all men are, where we are concerned. 'Rere was Cahai
O'Morra, who would have faced a platoon of soldiers, just going
to shoot him, or a howling and hissing mob, without moving a
muscle, wincing at the remark of a girl of one-and-twenty, and
afraid to-well, no matter what he was afraid to do."
"Suppose that he had spoken more plainly, what would have
been your answer l" asked Rosemary, with an innocent look.
"I should have said 'yes,' mademoiselle, without a moment's
hesitation," replied Miss Tankerville, kindly : "and the man
was a fool not to give me the opportunity: that's all."
"Are you sorry now V"
"No," said Miss Tankerville.
"Pray proceed !" said Rosemary, with a satisfied air.
" Mrs. Varick and Ezekiel were not pleased with my house-
keeping ideas. The former ridiculed me unmercifully for setting
up for an old maid at my age, and undertaking to live by my-
self as if I were forty-' Indeed,' said she, 'there's many a miss
of forty would consider such a step highly improper !'-Dr.
Mannikin could not comprehend Mr. 0 Morra's countenancing
such a wild notion--' Unless,' he added, 'he means to marry you
himself.'-Both insisted that it would hurt my matrimonial
prospects. As I was convinced of the contrary, I was immov-
able.-' You will expose yourself to very unpleasant remarks,'
said Ezekiel.-' Oh!' said I,' I am not such a fool as to suppose
that I can lve by myself, with only Laura. Of course I intend
to get some nice widow to live with me. There are plenty
such will be glad of the chance, thank Heaven !'-' How will
you be better off then than you are with me ' asked Mrs.
Varick, looking rather hurt.
"Protest as I might, Mrs. Varick saw in my plan only a
method of getting rid of her.-' That is ungenerous, Isabel,' said
I, 'for I have had several opportunities of placing myself else-
where, if to leave you was all I wanted. I could take board
with Mrs. Passavant, in my own house, and have Ezekiel's com-
pany ani protection; since he always resides there. It is only
for Laura's sake. She is five years old, she quarrels with
Roosey-that's Mrs. Varick's son, you know 'i"-" Oh! I know !
said Rosemary, laughing.-" ' And it is time I had her under my

A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.             107
own control, which can never be the case except in my own
house.'
"They saw tnat my resolution was fixed, and ceased to
combat it. I supposed that they gave up their opposition, and I
busied myself cheerfully in house-hunting. Having made a list
of the houses a ivertised, I ordered a carriage and taking Laura
with me went the rounds. At that time Bond street, Lafayette
Place, Washington Place, were fashionable localities. So were
still Park Place, College Place, and Broadway near the Bowling
Green, and dear old State street. The upper part of Broadway
from Grand street to Eighth was still highly aristocratic ; there
lived the Hones, the Wards, the Varicks, the Costars and the like,
in grand houses which are now fast turning into shops. Right in
the heart of this district with aristocratic mansions of granite-
brown stone was not yet-on either hand, stood my own house.
In a window of its lofty granite basement was seen Dr. Manni-
kin's name ; on the door-plate, M? s. Passavaut's. I wished most
fervently that I could turn out Mrs. Passavant and establish
myself there. Deducting Ezekiel's rent it would have been an
economy.
"Having my father's house before me as a standard, I was
difficult to suit. Either the rooms were too low, or the hall was
too narrow, or the yard was too small. I lotted on a spacious
yard as a play-ground for Laura, for I did not like the idea of a
little girl trundling her hoop in the street, which they all do
now. By Mr. O'Morra's advice I deferred choosing till I re-
turned to town in September, for the summit r was advancing
and all the world was going to watering-places. Mrs. Varick
was going to Rockaway, as Dr. Mannikin recommended sea-
bathing for Roosey. It was easy for him also to drive down
occasionally and fee the child, who was under his professional
care. Roosey, you know, had rickets. Of course, Mrs. Varick
proposed that I should accompany her, and take Laura, but I
was a little surprised that she did not insist upon it very strongly,
and provided I engaged to return to her in the Fall, seemed quite
Willing I should spend my summer anywhere I liked. Dr. Man
nikin, declaring that watering-places were stupid, unless the
bathing was necessary for your health, and inveighing against


A SUMNER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.

the customs of bathing at Rockaway, advised me to go to the
Catskill mountains aid take board in some farm-house, where I
could have fresh cream and milk, al)d save money 'to begin
housekeeping,' for I would be sure to need it. I proposed a
tour to Niagara, but he objected tue expense, and besides, how
could I manage about company? I could not fasten myself
upon a party without some gentleman to take care of me: and
to travel with a child five years old ! Laura would be an end-
less anxiety, and in all probability she would get into the Falls,
there or at Trenton, and be drowned.
"Although the clue to Ezekiel's conduct was entirely wanting
to me, I had sense enough to suspect very often an ulterior mo-
tive, as well as to observe that Mrs. Varick and he were always
playing into each other's hands. 1 wondered, therefore, why ho
did not want me at Rockaway, why he wished to send me into
the recesses of the Catskill away from all the world, and why
he objected to my spending a few hundreds in a summer tour:
for if I joined a party who were going to make what was then
the grand excursion, to the Falls, down the St. Lawrence, Mon-
treal, Quebec, and the White Mountains, it would not cost me
more: and the health, the pleasure, the mental improvement
to a young lady in my position, was worth that. Mr. O'Morra
to whom I applied for advice, warmly approved the tour. ridi-
culed Dr. Mannikin's objections: as for a gentleman escort, he
would accompany me himself, if my friends would allow him to
join their*party ; and by all means take Laura along, for al-
though she might cause some trouble and anxiety, I would feel
still more in leaving her; and if it should be desirable at any
point to separate from my friends, her presence would always
save me from embarrassment."
"Mr. O'Morra is a gentleman !" said Rosemary, emphatically.
"From the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, miss !
But you never saw anybody in such a rage as Dr. Mannikin.
Mr. O'Morra and he hated one another cordially: if I had not
known that, I should have deeply resented the remarks which
Ezekiel thought proper to make, in his quality of my nearest
relative. Although he had himself pointed out the necessity o
my having a masculine escort of my own, unless I meant to

inflict an unreasonable burden on the gentlemen of the party I
was to join, who had other ladies to look after, he affected to
consider that my own and my sister's guardian was not a suitable
person for that cffice.--'I suppose it will quite sufficientiy-
explain our relative position, Ezekiel, when Mr. O'Morra intro-
duces us as his wards, when 1 introduce him as my guardian.'--
' Which he is not, at present, any more. than I am !'-' But he
is guardian of my sister, joint guardian with myself!' said .--
'You had better make a joint concern of it altogether, and the
whole world will be of the same opinion after you have been
travelling with your guardian all summer-a widower under
forty ! He means to take Rory along of course; but if I were
you, I would insist upon the ceremony before starting ! That's
all I have to say.'"
"Oh! exclaimed Rosemary, with an impatient gesture and a
look of fire. "I could---.."  She did not say what she could
do: doubtless something very disagreeable to Dr. Mannikin.
"I resented this speech of course, though not so much as I
should have done, had I not thought it supremely ridiculous;
and Mrs. Varick came to Ezekiel's assistance by laughing at
him. He made an apology too, by saying that it was his affec-
tion that made him over-anxious for my interests and my honor ;
the simple truth being that he was afraid this journey would
lead to my marr3 ing either Mr. O'Morra or somebody else, when
my property, which he meant if possible to appropriate, would
escape his clutches: to say nothing of the very convenient cover
which I afforded to his wicked passion, and which was incom-
parably the greatest injury that I suffered at his hands.
"I made the journey. Providence seemed to grant me that
consolation before what I was to suffer. I knew not why, an
incubus was lifted from my spit it when I found myself on the
Albany boat-for there was no Hudson River railroad then---
with Laura, Master Rory (a boy of eleven), Mr. O'Morra, and
our travelling party. It was Rory's vacation, and his father
would not deny him or himself the pleasure of the boy's com-
pany ; he took care of Laura like a little knight; the manliest
little fellow ever you saw ; not so very little either, for he was as
tall as most lads at twelve, could ride and drive, dance, skate,

",

108

ROSEMARY.

1o


110                    ROSEMARY.
swim, play chess, or draughts, or backgammon with accom-
plished skill, a great player at nine pins, and extremely eager
-to be entrusted with a real gun, which his father promised him for
his next birthday present  They all said that he saved Laura's
life on one occasion by his courage and presence of mind; the cool-
est little rascal that ever wore roundabout; and it is needless to
say that she was as much in love with him as a little girl of five
years commonly is with a boy just old enough and big enough
to afford her effectual protection in her small needs and terrors,
on a tedious journey.
"It was not a tedious one to me. It was the only time that
I ever saw society fairly as a young lady. Mr. 0' \l orra was
widely known, and we met everywhere people or the highest
consideration themselves who considered him highly. At Sara-
toga, where we spent a week, I had a delightful time. At twenty-
one you know what that means for a young lady. I received a
great deal of attention, found myself a belle in fact, made a
serious conquest, and refused an offer of marriage between two
glasses of Congress water on the last morning of our stay. I
had refused or prevented such offers before, it is true, but this
was the first by which I felt honored, and it seemed to me that
a cloud was taken off my life. I attribued it to the fact that I
was in a young woman's normal position once more, under the care
of her rightful protectors and engaged in her legitimate duties.
I 'doubt very much if this gentleman would have noticed me at a
party; it was Laura who won me his attention. Two months
before I would have instantly accepted such an offer ; now that
I breathed the pure air of virtue and happiness, I was more
difficult. Mr. O'Morra, I saw, was charmed with me: he knew
all about it from my suitor who, with a manliness that engaged
my esteem,,had asked his permission first, and informed him
afterwards of his want of success."
"Why did you refuse this gentleman ?" asked Rosemary.
" Is it why I refused him ?" said Miss Tankerville, in a sweet
Hibernian accent, which she called her 'mother tongue,' from the
source whence it came.-" Because his nose was too short, per-
haps, or I didn't like the color of his beard, or the cut of his
coat, or he was a Yankee, or a Protestant, or perhaps his name

A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.

111

was Hezekiah! Is it necessary to give reasons why a girl of
one and twenty, rich, handsome and happy, rejects a god offer ?
Tell me, if you can, the reason why she should accept the first
good one, or the second, or the third, for that matter ? At five
and twenty the case is altered : if she refuse then, she has grave
reasons ; at thirty she will scarcely refuse at all; past thirty,
she will probably not have any offers to refuse. Stick a pin
there, Miss Rosemary !"
"Stick a pin ?" said Rosemary, with a puzzled look, and
involuntarily glancing down at her dress, "where ?"
"Set it down in your tablets, my dear; imprint it on your
memory. It is a metaphorical phrase, used by vulgar people;
a slang expression, in short."
"I don't wish to learn slang expressions," said Rosemary,
half petulantly : "so pray proceed."
"Why what a little princess it is ! To p oceed then.
"I stood where you will never stand, on Table Rock, which
quivered, or seemed to quiver, with the thunder-stroke of the
great cataract. Over the sweep of the horse-shoe, the waters
of Lake Erie plunged in sheets of. swiftest green and fretted
white into that vast rock-bedded cauldron of foam and spray
spanned by the sun-bow. The faint and lovely arch rested its
further' limb. against the verdure of Goat Island, veiled in softest
mist. Eternal uproar ! Quiet ineffable, which no sound nor motion
can disturb! Table Rock has fallen, and never broke the trans-
cendent repose of the mighty scene. I held Laura's hand fast
in mine, and was perfectly unconscious that my guardian had
passed his round my waist, and held it firmly. Rory stood in
his blue roundabout and cap on the very edge, as quietly as
Napoleon is painted on the rock of St. Helena. If I had seen
him at first, I should have screamed, but his father only looked
at the boy, and then pointed out to me his position with a glance
of paternal pride, which overcame even a father's apprehensions
"I remember this scene so well-I so often recalled it. It came
back to me in my dreams for weeks and months after. In one
sense, you know, the relative situation of Mr. O'Morra and my-
self justified a parental familiarity on his part: but then that
was the sole instance of it, before or since; and although it is a

*"

'   ,
.} r*
-',.


112

-ROSEMARLY.

natural, almost an irresistible impulse to seize hold of your
friends on Table Rock 0 Morra was not a man of impulses.
His very bitter ness and passion as an orator are deliberate; his
finest bursts are calculated ; and-he never indulged that perfectly
natural, perinissible, quasi-parental caress without a clear per-
ception of what he was about.
"Did he mean it just paternally? Was it in the character of
an ex-guardian? In a widower under forty, that seemed to me
a mere impertinence to a girl of my age. Yes; when I con-
sidered Mr. O'Morra's raven hair, his clear, unwrinkled, and
noble brow, the fire of his gray eye, his mobile lip curled
with sarcasm, his spare but muscular frame which, tall as I was,
overtopped me a full head ; and remembered that he was scarce
past the term of youth, which, as my father used to tell me, Hip-
pocrates fixed at thirty-five; I was profoundly convinced that a
parental familiarity on his part to me, in the full bloom of my
twenty-one summers, was a pure impertinence: and Cabal
O'Morra was incapable of an impertinence. What then? I
affected fear, and drew back from the edge of Table' Rock."
"I think," said Rosemary, innocently, as if she had made a
grand discovery, which reflected great credit on her penetration
"I think-you must have been in love at this time with Mr.
O'Morra."
" Ah ! now, Rosemary, you make me blush !" said Miss Tan-
kerville, with her peculiar smile, which we have noticed : and
Rosemary looked ashamed, as if she had been caught saying
something foolish.
"We sailed down the St. Lawrence ; we visited the Canadian
French in their homes, and worshipped in their rural churches.
Montreal in August greatly captivated us all. As none of us
had ever been abroad, the Church of the Sulpicians, which tra-
vellers generally style the Cathedral, was the most imposing
edifice devoted to our faith that we had ever seen. It chanced
that the first morning we visited it there was a marriage with all
the ceremonies; a nuptial mass, du ig which the bridegroom
and bride, both young, communicated together on the steps of
the altar, as directed by the ritual of our Church. We all stayed
to see it through. Though a Catholic born, I had never before

A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.              113
seen it, and our friends were Protestants. It was a very inter-
esting affair, for the groom was an English officer, a convert (as
I understood), and the bride French. His scarlet uniform, and
her long white train and veil, blending together on the altar
step, before the priest in his rich vestments, while little surpliced
boys like angels held tapers on either side, or knelt where they
had recited the confiteor, formed a beautiful picture. I was so
affected that I wept.-' Unless I can be married that way,' said
I, as we left the church, 'I don't want to be married at all.'-
'Scarlet coat and-all, I suppose V asked Mr. O'Morra, sarcasti-
cally.-'No, sir,' said I, with spirit, 'British officers who are
Catholics are too scarce for me to hope that ; and were they not,
I am too patriotic to marry any but an American. But as I am
entitled to the ring, sir, and all that, I mean to have it with all
solemnity or not at all.'
"Mr. O'Morra looked very cold and stern at that. I could
not at first imagine why. Then I recollected that he was a wi-
dower, had been married in early youth, to a virgin bride, and
no doubt with the very same cer'emonies; and I remembered to
have heard that it was only by a kind of dispensation that the
Church permitted these ceremonies to be used in the second
marriage of widowers, and not at all (as I knew vei y well) in that
of widows. I thought more about this than about the parental
caress he gave me at Niagara. I had lately felt a profound in-
ternal conviction that Mr. O'Morra was tenderly attached to me,
and that nothing but some subtle and delicate scruple prevented
him from saying so at present. It is impossible to convey to
any one else the grounds I had for this conviction, which' had
stolen over me gradually, awakening all the time deeper and
stronger feelings of affection for him: and now I got a sudden
shock. It seemed to 'me that a gulf had opened between us.
It was possible clearly, to bridge it over ; but it was a question
whether he would after all ask me to cross on such a bridge; it
was a further question, whether I would consent. Strange to
say, I had never before thought of it in this particular light.
That mysterious ceremony in the Church of the Sulpicians-that
bride kneeling on the very steps of the altar, where I never saw
woman kneel before-had awakened in the depths of my soul a


A SUMMER TOUR AND A SAUCY BOY.

J

a secret for you! Now tell me--will you accept him, as you
-call it? Yes or no, Miss Tankerville ?'
"I felt all the blood in my body rush to my heart, and then
back to my cheeks, at-this incomparably cool announcement
and question.
"'Ah ! I see how it is!' said the boy. ' Well, don't tell that
I told you. Honor bright !'-And off he went like an arrow
from a bow. Why, Rosemary. you blush as vividly as I could
have done myself, when the thing happened !"
"To think how you must have felt at such a question !" replied
Rosemary. "What an impudent good-for-nothing boy !"

114

ROSEMARY.

115

perception of something sacred in myself, which I never had
till then.
"That journey had ennobled and purified my thoughts.
Like all purification it was attended with pain. The blameless
happiness of which I had permitted myself to dream was escap-
ing from my hands. Rory one day was telling me about his
meeting with one of his school friends, who had a new step-
mother.
" 'He likes it first-rate,' said the boy. 'Now I should not,
Miss Tankerville.'
"'Why not, Master Rory ? Your papa has a perfect right to
marry again, you know, if he pleases.'
"'He , has a right,' replied the boy, 'but it would nut be so
glorious.'
"'You prefer glory to happiness, then, Rory 3' said I, with
a blush.
"'For my papa I do!' he replied,, looking at me steadily
with his great eyes. 'Besides, Miss Tankerville, did not you
tell me the other day that it was a noble thing in my father to
have been so long faithful to the memory of my mother ?'
"'I did, Rory.'
"'That proves it, then,' said the boy. 'My papa is not like
others, Miss Tankerville: everybody says that.'
"'He is certainly unlike any other man I ever knew,' said I.
"'Do you mean to marry my father 3' continued the boy,
boldly. 'Everybody says so.'
"'He has never asked me, Rory,' said I, affecting to smile.
"'Aye! but he will-when we get back to New York. You
know that as well as I do. Do tell me at once whether you
mean to have him. I won't tell any one, on my word and
honor!'
"' Upon my word, Rory,' said T,' this is a very extraordinary
request: to ask a lady whether she means to accept a gentleman
who has not yet proposed to her and possibly never will ! Don't
you know better than that?'
"'He will propose to you, I tell you,' answered the boy. '1
asked him myself, and he said : YES-plump out. Now that's


THE PLOT THICKENS.

CHAPTER XII.
THE PLOT THICKENS.
"PAsT midnight !" said Miss Tankerville, looking at her
watch.
" Oh, never mind !" cried Miss Rosemary, flushed with a deep
and permanent excitement. "I am dying to know why you
didn't marry, Mr. O'Morra after all, why you are an old maid-
not that you are so very old either-and-what dreadful thing
Dr. Mannikin and Mrs. Varick did to you."
Instead of answering, Miss Tankerville bent her head in a
listening attitude. Like most housekeepers of the timid sex,
she was quick-eared.
"I hear a step on the stairs !"
"Dear me ! I hear steps on the stair every night !" said
Rosemary.
"Aye! but I know the step of every one of my boarders, and
this is entirely different."
Miss Tankerville rose with excitement and rushed to the door
which she threw open. The sound, which was approaching
from below, ceased, but she could not see who it was, for the
gas in the hall had been put out. While sne ran to the mantel
for a match, the steps retreated. She lit a burner of the side
light near Rosemary's door and flooded the hall and nearest
flight of the stair with light. While thus engaged, the front
door of the hall below opened, causing a draught that flickered
the flame, then closed again.-" Some one has gone out !"-Miss
Tankerville went down stairs, accompanied by Rosemary, who
shared her excitement. They relit the hall light, examined the
hall door, which Miss Tankerville locked and bolted. Then they,
ranged through the parlors, trying windows, looking into
closets, and locking all the doors after them, to make sure noth-

ing should escape. Convinced at last that there was no one
inside, both returned to Rosemary's room. After discussing
femininely this incident, Miss Tankerville resumed her narrative,
"If you wish to know why I refused Mr. O'Morra, on his first
offer, of which Rory had forewarned me, it is very easily ex-
plained. He was a widower, near forty, and I a girl of twenty-
one, independent, supposed by myself to be tolerably attractive;
and his son, a lad of eleven years, was averse to his father's re-
marrying. I think I was right too: for why had Providence
made me independent, if not that Imight never sacrifice what
is more delicate and noble in my sex to vulgar necessities or
worldly ambition'' Then I had Laura to bring up. I was a
mother already, you see; and for that reason resolved to remain
a virgin, to fulfil, in unselfish purity, my allotted task. \My
feelings were not those of a Religious at all-for more than one
blameless passion struggled hard against my decision-why
should I deny that, now that the man's locks are silver and the
fire of his glance is tamed'? We parted at Mrs. Varick's door,
at about six in the morning, after a night on the Sound-a glo-
rious moonlight-that witnessed my struggle and my triumph;
parted friends: Rory shook hands with me in his manly style,
and kissed Laura with bold affection. I don't suppose the child
herself had any idea why, after they were gone, I sate down on
my trunk in the hall, flung my arms round her and cried !"
"You were a good girl," said Rosemary, dashing away a tear.
"I understand all that part now perfectly."
" The Varicks had not returned from Rockaway : that is,
Mrs. Varick and the children had not; for Mr. Varick was in
town. Although Mr. Varick was always particularly kind to
me, it was not entirely agreeable to be in the house with him
alone, as it were, with only a child and the servants, especially
as he used to come home tight, when he came home at all in
hours that I knew anything about. I regretted to observe that
his habits had in no respect improved, and the observation sti-
mulated the resolution with which I had returned to the city,
of forming a home as speedily as possible for myself and Laura.
Mr. Varick told me that Roosey had been delicate all summer,
and that Dr. Mannikin had attended him, spending sometimes

&amp;     _

117


"If

THE PLOT THICKENS.

entire weeks at Rockaway. For his own part, business
had kept him in town a great deal. Whatever the business
was, it had not been very profitable, for Mr. Varick borrowed
money of me on the first morning of my arrival. Three or four
days after, he applied to me again, wishing to borrow a very
large sum only for four-and-twenty hours. The whole of my
August rents and dividends, and the greater part of those paid
in May, were deposited then to my credit in the Chemical Bank,
I used to keep my check-book in my table drawer, and I was a
little surprised that the sum Mr. Varick asked for-merely for
one day-was within a few dollars the exact amount of my
balance. I was very confiding, but to lend even for a few hours
almost half a year's income, startled me, and I refused. He
looked mortified, but said nothing, put on his hat and left the
house. That day he did not appear at dinner-he had dined
with us every day since our return-and I feared that he was
very much hurt by my want of confidence. I sate up a good
deal later than usual that evening, in order to see him, hoping
that he might return sober enough to hear my excuses. However
he never came, and what was very unusual, did not appear at
breakfast the next morning. Another entire day, and no news
of Mr. Varick ! We all thought that he had gone down to
Rockaway. I was writing a note to Isabel, informing her of
the circumstances, and begging her to return home, when a
short letter arrived from her to me, begging me to send her a
hundred dollars to pay her bill at Rockaway, as Varick took no
notice of her request, and she supposed that as usual he had
been losing terribly at play. I enclosed her a cheque imme-
diately. and the next evening she returned, escorted by Dr.
Mannikin, and accompanied by the children and two maid-
servants. She flung herself into my arms. As soon as we
were alone, she said: 'Good Heaven! we are ruined, Helen!
Varick has gone to South America, leaving gaming debts
unpaid.'
"Mr. Varick had been in difficulty some years before. Then
he received a considerable inheritance on the death of his grand-
father, old Peter Roosevelt Varick. He had not been in busi-
ness since, but had lived on his means, speculating in real estate,

and dabbling in lotteries. Lately he had taken to faro. Dr.
Mannikin told me that his notes had been flying about all sum-
mer at fabulous discounts, sustained at all merely by the wealth
of hia relations, who, some might suppose, would step in at the
last, and by the idea that his wife was going to receive a large
property from her uncle Dashon. The house in which they lived
was a gift from old Mr. Dashon to Mrs. Varick, and was settled
on her in the hands of trustees. The furniture, too, was hers-
a gift from her uncle-of course it was liable for judgments,-
but as Varick had no bona-fide business obligations, nothing but
the wildest kind of accommodation paper negotiated at the most
usurious interest, and gambling debts, there would be no suits,
aid hence she would not be disturbed. But here were all her
resources. She had no money, and there were bills to pay.
The butcher and grocer would give no further credit till theirs
were settled, and but for my purse we should have had no din-
ner, that week.
"As soon as we had fairly ascertained how matters really
stood, a grand tripartite council was held, consisting of Dr.
Mannikin, Mrs. Varick and myself, to consider what was best
to be done. I advised her to apply at once to her Uncle
Da hon.
"'Now, Helen,' she began, 'it's of no use saying that. Uncle
Dashon will tell me to let my house, store my furniture, and
come to live with him, as I did before my marriage, and till
after Roosey was born. I can't do it. I'm  not going to put
myself under aunt Dashon's thumb again, I can tell you. And
if I refuse, uncle Dashon never forgives people who ask his
help and won't take his advice. Better not ask it at all. I
stand very well with him now, and if Dick gets killed fighting
in Algiers--as I hope to' goodness hgmay'-Rosemary stamped
her charming foot and uttered an indignant exclamation !-'no
doubt I shall get uncle's entire property at last. But as for
returning under his roof, it would do me no manner of good,
and I will not do it unless from the most dire necessity.'
pt would separate her from .us all!' said Dr. Mannikin,
Pathetically.
"I'I don't-see what she can do, then,' said I, 'unless she- lets

118

ROSEMARY.

119


THE PLOT THICKENS.

the house and sells the furniture, which will give her an income
sufficient to board in a very handsome style,'
"'Let the house of course I must,' said Isabel. 'I have not
the means to live in it. But as for selling the furniture-uncle's
gift only two years ago-he would never forgive me !'
"Ezekiel proposed (without any seriousness) that she should
keep both house and furniture, and take boarders.-' You could
make a handsome thing of it, and uncle Dashon would rather
like your spirit.'
"'There would be such an outcry among the Varicks as never
was heard in New York before. They'd consider it infinitely more
disgraceful than my husband's not paying his debts ! No use
talking of that!'
I see,' said Dr. Mannikin, "that you are determined to
keep up appearances ',
"'Determined.!' said Mrs. Varick.
"'Then in one shape or other your furniture,' said he, looking
round the frescoed saloon, gay with French mirrors and satin
upholstery and gilded carving-' has got to be converted into
support-that's clear.'
"' I don't know what is to become of me, unless Helen comes
to my assistance,' replied she, bursting into tears.
"'What can I do t' I exclaimed. 'Tell me, and I will do it.',
"At that time I would almost have laid down my life for this
woman who, when my sister and I were orphans and homeless,
had so disinterestedly (as I thought) offered us a refuge. Dr.
Mannikin drew me into the next room--an exquisite dining-
room with everything carved in oak, rich antique buffet, chairs
all knops and flowers, &amp;c.--and proposed. a. plan which he
thought would solve every objection, and promote alike the hap-
piness and interests of all t us.
"'Mrs. Varick's own idea is,' said he, 'tnat as you are bent
on housekeeping, you should take this house, furniture and all,
and pay her partly in money-for she will want some, you
know-and partly in board : but I tell her you can't afford it.
The rent is more than you can pay.'                    -}
"' Entirely out of the question,' said I.
"'Here is a more practical plan. Your own house bears the

same rent as this, but as you would let the basement to me at
a high price, you could afford to live in that, and taking Mrs.
Varick's furniture at a low figure, pay her in board, while she
would l)rovide for her other expenses by the rent'of this house.
"'You forget, Ezekiel, that Mrs. Passavant has a five years
lease.'
"'Not at all. That's the very point. Mrs. Passavant has a
fine opportunity to take a large family mansion in Lafayette
Place, where she thinks she can make her fortune in a few
years, and she only hesitates because she has your house on
her hands, Say the word and you shall have it.'
"' I shall be delighted to get my father's house again, and to
give you the office and have you live with me, cousin Ezekiel,'
said I; 'but can I afford to buy this costly furniture at any
decent price? And to take Isabel with her two children (and
servants-she must have a nursery-maid--and her own maid, of
course)-I shrink ! Besides what will her uncle Dashon say to
her selling the furniture ? He won't like her selling it to me
better than to any one else!'
"He need never know it, or if'he does'-for I shook my head
resolutely at that-' he can be told, what will be the truth, that
it is only hypothecated as security for her board till her hus-
band's return. Of course, you would resign it to her on full re-
payment of her bills-eh ? Thus, she unites every object she
avoids an elat, keeps up appearances with her relations and
the world; and you refurnish your house more splendidly
than ever on the easiest terms, and at the same time secure the
presence of a matron, which has always been your diiculty,
Helen.'                                              y
"You must remember that I haw this proposal precisely as
DrlMannmkm represented it, an-the only objections I per-
ceive l Were the expense-.more than I had ever contemplated--
and the destruction of my p lan of quiet domesticity with Laura.
dreaded Mrs. Varick's children and her maids. A very faint
and tt idea also floated through my inexperienced maiden
mind, that it was not quite the thing to have two married people
livng th 1me, of whom the man was separated from his wife
and the lady from her husband. Still, as the lady was 'y in
6

120

ROSEMARY.

121

'o.


ROSEMARY.

timate friend, with whom I had lived for two years on sisterly
terms, and the man my nearest relation, this view appeared pru-
dish, and I did not allude to it. I referred the proposal hack to
Isabel herself, who of course had already agreed upon it with
Ezekiel in private. She, therefore, only s1oke to thank me
eagerly, and promised the easiest bargain that ever was about
the furniture. In fine, I consented, provided Mr. O'Moi era's
consent could be obtained. At this condition Ezekiel's brow
blackened. He observed that Mr. O'Morra was in Washington,
conducting a cause in the Supreme Court. 'I will write to him,'
said I. ''We shall get the answer in three days.'
" I wrote the letter, which Dr. Mannikin took to put in the
Post-office."
"Oh !" exclaimed Rosemary. " What a fool !"
"I waited a week without receiving an answer; Ezekiel
coming every day to inquire, and growing very impatient and
pressing with me to decide. At last he brought a message from
Mrs. Passavant, requiring an immediate answer about the lease,
as she wag obliged either to accept or decline the proposal made
to her. Thus pressed and interpreting Mr. O'Morra's silence as
a sign that he was resolved not to interfere father in my affairs,
I gave my consent.
"DDr. Mannikin now hurried every thing, urging the prudence
of getting Mrs. Varick's furniture out of her own hands as soon
as possible. I bought it, therefore, immediately, taking her
receipt for the very considerable sums which I had already lent
her, as the first payment, and contracting to board her, her two
children and as many maid-servants, for three years, giving them
an entire floor, with fuel, lights, use of the drawing-room, and
all other imaginable privileges, at a very handsome compensa-
tion no doubt. The contra =was reduced to writing, and signed
by us both. Ezekiel witnessed it. He figured up what the
bargain would cost me in cash, and found that 1 should get the
furniture at about one-third its original value, the rest being
paid entirely in rent and supervision, which, however useful to
Mrs. Varick, would cost me nothing. He was never weary of
dilating on the advantages to accrue from the arrangement. I
was going to be mistress of a splendid establishment, and at the

THE PLOT THICKENS.                 123
same time their common benefactress. He confessed that he
had not succeeded at all in the two years since my father's
death. He had even lost some families who at first employed
him. They regarded him either as a bachelor, or as separated
from that cursed wife of his, who was born to be the blight of
his existence. Now that he was going to live with two young
ladies-his cousins--idaughtera of his old and celebrated uncle,
Dr. Tankerville-all would be changed. lie proposed to order
a new door-plate with his own name-for the front door.
"'Really cousin Ezekiel!' said I. 'Doesn't that turn me into
your housekeeper at once V
"'Fie,- no, cousin Helen. It is merely for the sake of the
good effect it will have upon my practice--the position it will
give me!'
"'To pass off my house as yours--is that it ' said I.
"Why you wouldn't put Miss TANKERVILLE on the door.-..
as if you kept a boarding-house--iwould youV
"'No, you can't do that, Helen!' said Mrs. Varick, laughing.
'Just think--on Broadway-too conspicuous a place for you to
hang out your sign, my dear ! The most natural thing in the
world for you to give your cousin the doctor the benefit.'
"So to give Ezekiel the benefit, I agreed to it, and before we
moved in, the name of DR. MANNIKIN appeared-on a large silver
plate upon the lofty green door. - This was an immense lift in
the world for Ezekiel Mannikin! Consider what a respectable
figure he now cut, living in a four-story house, with granite
basement and massive steps, on- Broadway ! If you called on
him, you were shown into a noble office, two rooms deep, lined
with walnut bookcases and a magnificent medical library.
Every circumstance breathed the old-established practitioner
Daily, at the hour when Broadway was most thronged, Dr.
Mannikin would be seen, .entering or issuing from his office in
faultless suit of black, Quakercut, broad-brim hat, white-top-
boots; a sort of Quaker dandy, neither ashamed of the Society
nor superstitiously attached to it, and fast becoming a most res-
pectable notoriety.
"Dr. Mannikin's motives for desiring this arrangement were
quite patent. Mrs. Varick's were not so clear-.---."


"Oh, never mind her motives," interrupted Rosemary. "One
must have read history to little purpose not to know that peo-
ple, under the influence of criminal passions, will go any lengths
and run any danger to gratify them. Otherwise Isabel Varick's
conduct is inexplicable, for had she applied to-to her uncle
Dashon, he would have done anything for her at that time."
"The lessons of history have made a deep impression upon
you," said Miss Tankerville, with a smile. '" To dismiss, then,
the motives of Mrs. Varick. Immediate possession of the pre-
mises had been a condition which Ezekiel made with Mrs. Pas-
savant: so she moved into her new house without even waiting
to clean it. Dr. Mannikin wanted me to do the same, but I was
too thorough a housekeeper, and not yet sufficiently tamed to
obey him there. I must have kept him on tenter-hooks, while,
regardless of his advice, which I considered a pure impertinence;
I sent in an army of painters and house-cleaners. Once in for
it, I was resolved to do the thing as became the daughter of Dr.
Tankerville. Mrs. Varick's carpets had to be taken up, purified,
new breadths put in and refitted, causing fresh delays. Her
rooms were narrower than mine, so that the drawing-room had
to have a new medallion-carpet, one which I thought would not
disgrace her French mirrors and Paris upholstery. I had been
overseeing it laid down; the mirrors being already up, and the
curtains, and pictures, but not another stick of furniture'yet
moved in. My father's and mother's portraits by Inman, and
a great picture of Hippocrates, which old Pafl persuaded my
father to buy, and a silvery landscape by Doughty--white-armed
sycamores overhanging a running stream chrystalline clear-and
a purple and gold sunset by Cole, adorned the walls, giving
already a familiar look, and I looked round with a sense of
pride to think I was mistress here once more, when the door
opened, and Cabal O'Morra stood before me.
"In the mirror that had been Mrs. Varick's I saw the blood
rush tumultuously to my face. It was only a minute--I ran up
to him to shake hands. He took mine icily and gazed round in
silence, his frock-coat buttoned up, and his gloved hand resting
on his hip.
"' well, sir,' said I, with woman's quickness beginning the

124

THE PLOT THICKENS.                 125
attack, 'are you not a pretty cavalier not to have answered my
letter all this time V-
"'What letter V replied he, black as thunder.
"I explained.
"'I received no letter. How did you direct it?
To Cahal OV'forra, Esq., Willard's Hotel, Wshington,
D. C., as plain as I could write it; and Dr. Mannikin put-it in
the office for me himself.'
"'That explains why I never got it'
"'Sir!' said I, flaming up.
"Your cousin is to live with you, or you with him? I see
his name on the door-plate. Who else V
"'My friend Mrs. Varick, sir, who is compelled to relinquish
her house for the present.  I wrote to you about all these
arrangements asking your approval and advice.'
"My approval is out of the question. My advice is to break
the bargain at any cost.'
Sir, it is too late. Had you said as much a month ago, in
answer to my letter, I would not have stirred hand or foot in
the business..
"Confound the letter!' said he, stamping with his foot, and
usinoa much more forcible word. 'I never got it, I tell you,
nor,do I believe it was ever sent.'
"'Please not to swear, sir,' said I: 'I am not used toit. As
for the imputation upon my cousin, that he has had the baseness
to suppress my letter, I shall not notice it.' I was excessively
angry, and vent to the mirror to adjust my hair and bonnet, as
if about to go. Mr. O'Morra strode up and down the room,
in equal wlath; once he turned to the door; then he stopped
before my father's portrait and sighed. He came back to me
and took my hand.
" 'iGod forbid.' said he, 'that I should stand on idle etiquette,
rien ho selfish anger, when the daughter of my old friend is
risking her fortune, her happiness, her reputation and perhaps
even her virtue.'
"'What mean you, sir V
"  I mean that your cousin Ezekiel, in whose power you are
about to place yourself', is a scoundrel, and that your friend Mrs.

ROSEMAR.


THE PLOT THICKENS.

ROSEMARY.

Varick is his accomplice. Early last summer I heard unfavor-
able rumors in regard to her and I should have spoken to you
on the subject, had I not found you bent on this housekeeping
project, which I thought an excellent mode of withdrawing from
her. I even supposed that you intended it so, and hence I did
not explicitly warn you. Besides you know what hopes I
formed upon your summer tour.    Had those presumptuous
hopes turned out better founded, I had planned for you a visit
to my mother this autumn---'
"Here Mr. O'Morra stopped, overcome by emotion, and for
my part I listened pale as death, wondering what was to come
next.
"'That was out of the question after what passed between us
in our last conversation. Still, I wrote you from Washington,
urging you to pursue your housekeeping plan, but to keep clear
of all connection with your cousin, and hinting why.'
"' I never received such a letter '
" Ah, it is all of a piece. Yesterday I returned. On my table
I found a letter informing me of your plans-not your letter--
an anonymous letter--'
"' Sir !' said I, 'Mr. O'Morra ! an anonymous letter ! Oh, no;
I beg of you, sir, not to say another word. I would rather incur
any disgrace than listen to anything from so base a source.
Against the reputation of a lady too! 'Fie, flie!'
"I walked away impatiently.
"'You should hear me out,' said he. 'I regard these things
exactly as you do. I will not even mention to you the charges
contained in this letter. But as it concerned you so nearly, I
thought it right to make inquiries in the quarter indicated. I
have been to  Rockaway. Now weigh what I am going to tell
you ! It is certain. Both your cousin and Mrs. Varick know of
the scandal: for Varick was informed, and questioned them both,
and accepted their explanations as satisfactory. In the face of
that fact, which should impose on them such peculiar discretion,
they form a plan to live together, dung her husband's absence,
under your roof !---'
"'Is that all l' said I. ,
"' Is it not enough '

"It is enough to have prevented my forming this engage-
ment, had I known it earlier; not enough to make me recede
now. I have signed a written contract with Mrs. Varick ; I
have bought her furniture ; it ie hers no longer, it is mine; her
house is let from the First, I must move out of it in twenty-four
hours, and she has no place to come but here. The arrange-
ment is generally known, and for me to draw back at the
present moment would be to disgrace her, Mr. O'Morra.'
Tier own fault entirely.'
"' She has not used me well, I admit, but I utterly disbelieve
that scandalous, story. Do you think me so deficient in pene-
tration that there could be any grounds for such idle talk and I
not know it ?
I wouldn't give five straws for your opinion in such
matters,' said he with unbounded contempt.
"'I shall not desert her when she is traduced,' said I warmly.
"Take care of yourself and Laura-you have no call to pro-
tect the reputation of a married woman who cannot protect her
o n. Come, Helen, authorize me to act for you, and I will rid
you of your contract and every other embarrassment, before the
world is a day older.'
"I drew away from Mr. O'Morra, and leaned against the man-
tel--for there was not a seat in the room-to reflect. At last I
asked him-more for want of something to say, than any other
view-what he would do if I gave him full powers.
"'In the first place, serve Dr. Mannikin with a notice to quit
the premises in a week. He is a tenant at will. I can prove
that he pays no rent and never has paid any. I could set him
on the sidewalk with all his traps to-morrow. Next with this
notice as a screw, I am prepared to treat with'Mrs. Varick. I
will offer to return her furniture anywhere she pleases, or to
pay her cash for it in full, at a fair valuation by disinterested
appraisers. It is a tremendous extravagance for you, but what
is money in such a case'? If she refuse all terms of accommoda-
tion, 1 shall inform her 4at this house is locked up, and I shall
leave her to her remedy. I doubt if she will sue for damages.
My life for it, though, when she finds that Dr. Mannikin is not

126

127


THE PLOT THICKENS.

to live with you, and that you will not live with her, she will
come to terms.'
"' My dear Mr. O'Morra,' said I, 'you must be sensible that
this is a kind of proceeding to which I can never have recourse
with friends whom to this moment- I . have loved. If I believed
Isabel guilty-and I totally disbelieve it--I couldn't do that.
After she has sheltered me and Laura under her roof for two
years---,
"' For her own purposes!'
I don't care-I am not going to stamp her with public dis-
grace by an open breach, and ruin Dr. Mannikin too-my nearest
relative, whose interests are my own. I will try to persuade
Mrs. Varick for her own sake to give up the arrangement.'
"' She won't, and she will persuade you that she ought not.
Well, I have done my duty, Miss Tankerville. When they have
entirely ruined you between them, call upon me again.'
"I shook hands with him, tears in my eyes. He went to the
door, then returned.
"'There is yet a way for you to escape this difficulty,' said
he, in a tremulous voice, 'without inflicting the slightest wound
on the reputation or feelings of Mrs. Varick, or doing the least
prejudice to your cousin.'
"'How V said I. 'I would gladly embrace any method of es-
caping that satisfied those conditions.'
".' Would youV he asked, with his fieriest glance.
"' Indeed I would. Do you think me indifferent to a possible
stain on my fair name 'I'
"'Marriage,' returned he, taking my hand in his iron fingers,
'changes all the relations of a woman to others, and alters all
her plans. No one will expect you-not Mrs. Varick herself-
to fulfil these engagements from the moment that you announce
yourself as-my betrothed wife.'
"No words can express the mingled respect, passion and ener-
getic wilfulness, with which O'Morra uttered these last words:
it was enough to sweep away the opposition of any feminine will
in the world. A man of forty, who knows his own power, is far
more formidable to our resolutions than a youngster, Rosemary.
He would make us marry him in spite of ourselves, and be ex-

tremely well contented afterwards, I believe. But I was his
match in pride, and man as heris"-observed Miss Tankerville,
triumphantly-" more than a match for him in dissimulation.
I could not bear that any man should say I accepted him to get
out of a scrape; so I turned away with a breaking heart-for I
felt to my inmost core all the noble devotion of his conduct-
and said: 'Thank you a thousand times.'-I raised my eyes
from the carpet and saw in the mirror his look of doubt--as
plainly as if he had said with his lips-' She thinks me too old'
for her !'-Why don't these wise men know us better?  I was
only ashamed to yield without a stronger urgency. So the main
put on his hat and went away, leaving me alone in my grand
house. With much ado I kept from running to the window to
call him back : maiden pride prevented me."
Young Rosemary clasped both hands over her face with a
beautiful movement of modesty, then with a sidelong glance and
half smile said: "Go on."  They are all alike. The child un-
derstood it, as the duckling understands paddling about in a
pool.
"Suppose all that Isabel Varick said in answer :-her pro-
testations, her tears, her wounded feelings, her bold denials,
taking Heaven to witness of her innocence and praying God
might strike her dead that instant if she spoke not true. The
Rockaway rumor she treated as the most idle gossip, such as
no woman on earth could be exempt from, and which, with as
little reason, might any day assail myself. From mere innocence
she had attached no importance to it, which from me won instant
credence. I ended by feeling the greatest compunction for
speaking of it at all, and almost feared that I had compromised
my own character by having listened with any respect to so
monstrous a calumny. When she saw the effect she had pro-
duced, she changed her tone. If I thought I should sustain the
slightest injury, she released me from my engagement. A word
from me was sufficient-she would tear the contract into a
thousand pieces. With difficulty I appeased her wounded de-
licacy.
"So the next day a grand move.
"To say I did not enjoy myself in my new home, or rather

128

ROSEMARY.

129


130                    ROSEMARY.
my old home restored, would be untrue. In some respects it
was the happiest period of my life. Dr. Mannikin was a singu-
larly agreeable companion; above all, at table. He had seen so
much and had so large a fund of anecdote. He brought to the
house many amusing and celebrated people, editors, authors,
artists, actors, and Bohemians generally. Our winter evenings
at home were rendered delightful by this sort of society. We
went to the opera and theatre frequently, and I had little sup-
pers at home thereafter, to which some witty actor or renowned
and social man of letters would be invited. We were not in-
vited to so many parties-some of Mrs. Varick's friends left her
off their visiting list, and I was included in the proscription-
she for boarding, I for taking her to board. To make amends
we attended some very brilliant public balls, where Isabel was
always distinguished for her grace, her beauty, and her ravish-
ing toilette. I had also enough of domestic cares. I got a
governess for Laura, a remarkably nice young person, and I
badher taught music and dancing bycompetent professors. I
was present at her lessons, and attended myself to her religious
instruction. There was one great drawback--I could not invite
Mr. O'Morra to the house: he would have deemed it an insult;
and this always rankled in my mind, although I was more and
more convinced of the injustice he had done to my cousin and
my friend.
"Another thing I did not quite enjoy was the expense. The
family was pretty large; Dr. Mannikin was an epicure, and we
entertained quietly indeed, but pretty often, dinner company.
I sustained the whole establishment; for though Dr. Mannikin
paid me nominally $1,000 a year, the money, you observe, came
out of my pocket. I merely retained the pension I previously
gave him. Mrs. Varick, of course, paid me nothing: for I was
all the time paying her for her furniture. At the end of six
months I had exhausted all my reserve, and saw that my ex-
penditure would' regularly exceed my income. I was now
fairly in for it, and seeing that I could not lop off anything with-
out pinching my table or doing injustice to Laura, by the advice
of Dr. Mannikin, that Fall I let two furnished rooms, with
breakfast, to a couple of literary gentlemen, Mr. Forrester, who

THE PLOT THICKENS.                  131
is still with me, and a young, foreigner named Ruse. To do
this, however, was to exhaust the capacity of my house: I had
not a spare room left.
Let me tell you (there is reason for it) how my space was
disposed of. In the first place we had five female servants, and
Dr. Mannikin kept a black boy to drive his carriage: for t had
lent him money to set up a handsome brougham with two
 horses: Mrs. Varick said that Ezekiel ought to have that, to
match the house. I had also a sempstress, whom I did not
consider exactly" as a servant.  She and Fleurette (rsabel's
own maid) occupied the same room in the attic, and the rest of
the girls and the boy, occupied all the remainder. There was
a counter basement under the front office. This was the sewing
room and servant's hall :-the rest of that floor was occupied by
the kitchen, laundry, store rooms, and so forth. The base-
ment was Dr. Mannikin's office-he slept in the back room, on
a sofa-bedstead of his own invention. The extension-room was
thelinintg-room. Over it, accessible from the first landing of
the back-stairs, the old billiard-room had been converted into
two pieces, of which one was Laura's school-room, and the other
the bed-room of her governess. First floor--the drawing-room
Spite, consisting of two large saloons, communicating by folding
doors, and a small boudoir (over the hall) fitted as a ladies' work-
room and library : no sleeping apartment on this floor. Second
floor (Americans would call it the third)--Mrs. Varick's apart-
ments; her sitting-room, bedroom, Roosey's room, a dark-room
where the nurse slept, four in all, with closets, and bath-room
affected to her alone, Third story (in New York parlancehe
fourth), Miss Tankerville's room,rand Laura's adjacent; which
left precisely two .rooms corresponding in front for Messrs.
Forrester and Rush : deep closets between, cut off from the
apartment of sail messieurs, and appropriated to herself by the
young lady who owned the house and almost everything in it.
I have hardly left a corner for a mouse. Yet the rent paid by
my new lodgers did not suffice to meet the deficiency in my
income as compared with my expenses: for it was I who fed
Dr. Mannikin's horses, and paid his boy's wages and kept his
carriage in repair. What didn't I do?  I didn't pay the wages
J_-    -pa             ewae


132                ROSEMARY.

of Mrs. Varick's maids, nor her milliner's bills, nor those of Dr.
Mannilin's tailor: but if we went to a party together, I paid the
carriage hire afterwards: Dr. Manniim, however, bought the
tickets when we went to the theatre. He considered that that
balanced the account.
"I was, I own, deeply alarmed when, at the end of the second
year, I found myself, after my November rents had been paid,
with a debt exceeding my cash-in-hand by a cool $1,200 aid not
a stiver to go on with. Well, I had some Chemical Bank shares;
I got my certificates, drove down to Wall street, went straight to
Mr. Nevins' office, came back with a cheque, paid my debts to
the last dollar ; then resolved to economize.
"Dr. Mannikin was now doing well in his profession. The
appearance of wealth sustained for two years had done its work.
I ought to know, for his bell was always going. I thought in my
heart that if he did not relinquish the $1,000 which I yet had to
pay him for one year more, according to my promise, he might
at least refund the various sums I had lent him over and above
that, and also relieve me of the expense of his stable and boy.
I told him so frankly. He readily promised to do so, and that was
the last I heard of it. He used to market for me (to increase
his own consequence) and paid both my butcher's and grocer's
bills. I was glad to be saved the trouble ; and to tell the truth,
I was so youthful-looking-so completely a young lady in
appearance-that it often annoyed me to make purchases for
the house. Everybody called me 'Miss,' at first, and then very
likely, when I gave the house, changed it to 'Mrs. Mannikin'
-a most odious appellation to me. The bills used to be made
out against Dr. Mannikin, and he, when he had paid them, of
course with funds that I furnished him, would carefully file
them away. He observed that these fellows might 'come down'
upon him some day. Well, the only item I could succeed in
retrenching was wine. I quietly locked up my store-room, and
the doctor, after a laughing quarrel on'the subject, got some
wine for his own use, and Mrs. Varick and he drank it at din-
ner. It passed as a jest, but produced bad feeling.
"I approach with trembling the conclusion of this history.
What led to it was that Miss Smith, Laura's governess, with

THE PLOT THICKENS.                 133
whom I was entirely satisfied, who had been with me now foL
two years, and was, as I believed, tenderly attached to her
charge, as well as to me, suddenly, without any reason as-
signed, gave up the situation. When I pressed her for her
motive, asking if I or any one in the house had given her cause
of complaint, she would only answer that she could not be
happy here, and ended by a flood of tears.
"'Now tell me,' cried I, 'who has dared to annoy or insult
you? For if it were the best man or woman in the house, he
or she shall leave it.' -ue
"'No one, Miss Tankerville--no one, I assure you. Every-
body has been and is most kind to me.'
"I saw there was some mystery. Was she going to
ried ? Was she married already?  What then?   At last the
poor girl, after makg me promise never to bet     the
was the author of the information, told me. I could not
and did not believe her. I would see with      o    n
I soon had abundant proof. The deepest darkness discre-
tion the most absolute, cannot forever hide the guilty. That
gliding serpent form--I see it still creep by in the dark-that
stealthy step on the winding stair-I hear it yet. The long
garments do not rustle--she is too careful: no slipper creaks--
she is barefoot. That woman is capable of committing other
crimes than this one day, when cupidity, or vengeance, or some
darker passion yet, shall prompt her.

3


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.     135

CHAPTER XIII.
THE CROWNING VILLAINY.
"You understand what I have been telling you, Rosemary 3"
" Sufficiently," replied the y oung girl. "Excuse me for ask-
ing if it is not possible that you were mistaken ? Such mon-
strous ingratitude on the part of Dr. Mannikin-such infamy
in one bearing the name Isabel Varick bears,'and that which
she bore before her marriage,-appear to me incredible."
"For your sake I touch the evidence 1nhtly-hiuting rather
than describing. I pass over my visit to Isabel's own room
during her absence-her children and nurse buried in a sleep
so profound that the influence of drugs could alone account for
it. I see your astonishment: but Miss Smith's slumbers had
been deepened in the same method by a soothing draught pre-
scribed by Dr. Mannikin for her cough.' She slept like the seven
sleepers after it, but it affected her nervous system so much
that without Dr. Mannikin's knowledge she omitted it; hence
her part in the denouement. The nurse-a healthy buxom Irish
girl as ever you saw, scarce sixteen, s offered in the same way.
Two y ears later I placed her in an asylum, a wreck. She is now
restored, and waits on you daily. Question her, if you doubt.
Besides the wicked are never so secret as they deem. There
was Fleurette--she had eyes and ears too in her French head,
and a French tongue to relate her observations. Fleurette slept
with Rhoda, the sempstress ; Rhoda, the sempstress, sometimes
talked with Miss Smith, the governess. Long before they ame
to live with me, in the revival winter, this shame began."
" Enough ! enough !" cried Rosemary, with a gesture of
deprecation.
"It only remains to decide upon the course I should pursue.
Outraged modesty, injured pride, wounded affection, the sense
of ingratitude, of betrayal, abhorrence, resentment, indignation,
~~:Y&amp;

contempt, overcame and-banished at once every kindly feeling
that I once had entertained for either. At the same time justice
to myself required that I should seem entirely ignorant of every-
thing, and rest my action on entirely different grounds from the
real one.
"The next morning, then, at the family breakfast I announced
that I head determined to break up housekeeping. My manner
was so serious that the announcement caused a general start.
Mr. Forrester and Rus6, who for some time had been admitted
to the common table by unanimous vote, expressed lively regret.
So little was my motive suspected that Dr. Mannikin, supposing
it was the pecuniary difficulty again, immediately offered to
'double' (as he expressed it) his board, in other words to pay
me in fact what hitherto he was only reckoned to pay me.
"'I can afford to do it now,' said he, filling his glass with
some delicate Chateau Margaux. 'Come, cousin Helen ! that
will add a thousand a year to your income at once.'
"There was a general smile-for everybody knew exactly
how Dr. Mannikin paid his board,
"' I'm not so rich as you,.Mannikin,' observed Forrester ; 'I
can't afford to double my board ; but'-turning to me-' if a
very handsome rise, Miss Tankerville, will enable you to go on
command me. I'd be confoundedly sorry to see this family
broken up-wouldn't you, Rus6 ?'
" Mr. Rus6 expressed the same sentiment, but added:-
'Miss Tankerville must remember that she is receiving part of
her income in the shape of har furniture. In less than a year
all this beautiful establishment will be entirely yours, Miss He-
len, and I think there is not in the city one more elegant. It is
unique.'
" That's true, Helen,' said Mrs. Varick, reaching out her
lovely arm for some buckwheat cakes. 'It's I who ought to be
thinking what I'll do when the 3 ear is up, unless my husband
digs a fortune out of those new gold mines in California where
he writes me he's going.'
"'I have nothing to complain of,' said I, 'nor do I complain.
Since I have cut offt my wine bills and a few other little extras,
and have takern Mfr. Forrester and Mr. Ruse as full boarders, I


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.      137

am not running behindhand any more. I certainly would not
allow you to raise your board, gentlemen, though I thank you
for the cffer. I appreciate too, I assure you, the pleasantness of
the family, and of every member of it--you may rely upon it
that no one will feel more keenly than I shall the pain of part-
ing: but part we must.' My voice trembled and broke in spite
of my self.
"' Very sorry, Miss Tankerville,' said Forrester. 'How soon
do you propose V 
"'There will be a bill on the house to-day, and if I can let it
from the first of January, I shall do so.'
"' Indeed you will do no such thing, Helen!' said Ezekiel,
rising from the table.
"'The house is mine, cousin Ezekiel. I am free to let it it
I choose.'
"'You will not violate your contract with Mrs. Varick, I
conclude!'
"' That,' said I, 'is a matter between Mrs. Varick and my-
self.'
" ' Well, Helen ?  And how do you intend settling it V de-
manded Isabel herself, flushing up. 'You are almost a whole
year's board in my debt!'
"'My successor and tenant,' said I, 'will of course complete
the time for me; or, if you prefer it, I will pay you the money
instead.'  -
"'Neither the one nor the other is the same thing to me, by
means,' she replied. 'The money I won't accept at all,
as for the other proposition, it is a mere evasion !'-.-And she
hung out of the room with a look l can never forget. Her
femitd penetration or accusing conscience divined the truth at
once. Miss Smith also slipped away, terrified (I think) by a
glance of frowning inquisition which Dr. Mannikin directed at
her, and betraying her consciousness by the very act.
" Forrester-a mild-mannered man as ever lived, a giant in
stature and bearded like a pard, yet gentle as a woman-began
to reason with Dr. Mannikin in favor of Miss Tankerville's right
to decide such a question according to her own interests and
feelings. Still he regretted her determination in view of the

fact that Mrs. Varick considered she had claims. He could
understand that. For his own part, if everything else remained
the same, and Miss Tanker vile were left out, it would no longer
be the same to him. Without prejudice to Mrs. Varick, who
was a very charming person, no doubt; or to Mrs. Varick's
furniture (now Miss Tankerville's), which was extremely re-
cherche and elegant; Miss Tankerville herself was the charm of
her own house, and he hoped they should be able to induce her
to recognize that fact and to alter her resolution. Rus6--a
slight, pale, fair-haired young man, with keen, light-blue eyes,
and a beautiful light-brown mustache-looked from one to an-
other in his foreign-bred manner, but said nothing. I liked
Rus6 very much, though Mrs. Varick had taken an intense dis-
like to him. He had rigorous foreignideas of feminine decorum,
and was scrupulously observant of every form of respect to us
ladies. Isabel said he was dissipated, and preferred Forrester
greatly, who certainly was much more liberal in his notions.
Dr. Mannikin had introduced them both into the family, and I
used to think it odd that he, a man who was nothing (as I sup-
posed) to either of us, seemed to be jealous of them both, of
Forrester (that I barely tolerated) in relation to me, and of Rus6
in reference to Mrs. Varick, who could not bear him at all.
"When Forrester had finished complimenting me, I answered
"'Gentlemen,' I said, with all the sweetness I could put into
my manner, 'my position is somewhat peculiar for the mistress
of such a family as this. I am a young unmarried woman, and
as such I have both interests and feelings which are sacred to
myself, and of which I will render account to nobody. It is
sufficient for me to say that I choose not to keep a boarding-
house any longer. and that .I don't expect any one to inquire
into my motives.'-And with that I too swept out of the room."
"That," said Rosemary, "was capital !"
"Before I got out of the lobby, a servant opened the door
again, and I overheard Dr. Mannikin say with an oath-' I do
believe she is going to get married!'
"Miss Smith was resolute to leave me. She was afraid that
Dr. Mannikin, if he suspected that all was discovered, would
poison her to destroy her testimony. Considering the difficult.

IK

136              ROS1MARY


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.

ies I had before me, I was not sorry to let her go, and I felt
that Laura too would be an embarrassment. Moreover I would
not allow the child to remain in the house a single day longer,
for fear she might come to the knowledge of that which I would
not have had her know for the world. So I went immediately
to Madam Commifaut's, at whose fashionable school I had my-
self been educated, and placed Laura under her care. The
school was in Houston street, only a few squares distant; I
could visit the child daily, and I knew that I could rely impli-
citly on Madam s kindness to my little sister, then nearly eight
years old. This step convinced every one that I was in earnest,
and confirmed the idea that I was meditating matrimony.
"From Madam Commifaut I went straight to Mr. O'Morra,
whom I wished to consult in regard to the legal effect of my
contract with Mrs. Varick, and the steps I needed to take to
get rid both of her and Dr. Mannikin. I took him a copy of
the contract.
"'Hem!' said he, regarding me steadily, although I had not
intimated my reasons for wishing to break up, until my face
consciously burned under his scrutiny. 'This instrument is
equivalent to a lease of the apartment here designated, for three
y' ars ; and I see it has eleven months to run. Of course you
are bound by this rigorously ; and as she is in possession, you
cannot dispossess her. You must also supply her with board,
fuel, lights and other things here enumerated, to the end of the
time, or forfeit your title to all the consideration, that is, the
furniture : a cunningly devised instrument!'
"'Then I am at her mercy altogether V
"'Not at all-for by fulfilling the conditions your title is per-
fected, and since it is for necessaries of her position, is good
even against her husband ; and in five days after you may show
her the door.'
"'No earthly consideration will induce me to remain another
month, much more eleven, under the same roof with her,' said I.
"' Is it so V said he, with a terrible eye-flash. 'Then begin
by serving a notice to quit on Dr. Mannikin. He is a tenant at
will. All you have to do is to give him a month's notice, and if he
fail to vacate the premises on the day appointed, the sheriff will

put him into the street. The woman will follow of her own
accord probably.'
"'Very well, sir,' said I, not raising my eyes from the floor,
'please serve the notice on Dr. Mannikin to-day.'
C 'I will write it,' said he, 'and you shall deliver it. In the
meantime you can advertise your house as you propose, and put
a bill on it; and if Mrs. Varick finally refuse all accommoda-
tion, and insist on the letter of the bond, you can make it a
part of the conditions with your tenant to board that lady and
her family till next November. You should get a tenant who
is willing to buy the furniture out and out, and who will give
security to fulfil your engagement to Mrs. Varick as part pay..
meant. I think you will have no difficulty in finding one, as it is
an excellent situation for a fashionable boarding-house. Mrs.
Varick is a very fashionable lady too-she will give the house
a character at once!'"
"Your Mr. O'Morra is too bitter !-I don't half like him."
"'If you can,' he concluded, 'compromise with her. Pay
her anything in reason--three--four-thousand dollars.down, to
give up the contract and move out. Or let her take her cursed
furniture and begone, and do 3 ou offer to pay the cartmen for
moving it.'
"The idea of a compromise was in my own mind, and as a preli-
minary to it I paid another visit to the broker's. Mr. Nevins
met me with a half-reproachful smile. 'What! going to sell
more stock already, Miss Tankarville ? I fear you are extrava-
gant ; and I hear that you take boarders too? What is that for?'
--I confessed it was a folly, but assured him that I was cured of
it. Several gentlemen who had been conversing with him,
looked round at the name of Tankerville ; a handsome pleasant
Jew came forward and took my hand, saying-' The daughter
of my old friend Dr. Tankerville V 'Mr. Nathan, I believe?'
said I.--' If  ou are selling Chemical,' said he with a smile, 'I
will take it of you. A friend of mine, Mr. Dashon, who has
more money than he knows what to do with, ordered me to buy
all the Chemical I can lay hold on. I will give you one quarter
of one per ceii. ; vance on to-day's quotation, Miss Tanker-
ville,' So this transaction was soon effected. I transferred tho

*

18

ROSEMARY.

189


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.      141

140               ROSEMARY.

certificates, and be filled up a cheque from one of the little
packs ever ready on hooks above the desk used for that pur-
pose.-' And so you remember me?' he said.- Perfectly, Mr.
Nathan.'-' Ah, your father and I were old friends. I used to
buy a great many stocks for him. He was too fond of Insur-
ance- burnt his fingers in '35 that way. How is it you are still
Miss Tankerville ? In our church a young lady with your she-
kels, and half your beauty, would have lost the power of signing
her'own name to bank certificates long ago '--Mr. Nathan in-
sisted on sending out a boy to get the cheque certified, and
meanwhile chatted with me about my father. All the gentlemen
in the office saluted me when I retired, with that respect which
says so much to a young woman. 'After all,' thought I,' I am
only three and twenty-I am independent-I have good man-
ners-my share of beauty-and an unspotted hereditary name
-why shouldn't I yet do well when I have cut myself adrift
from my fatal cousin and my false friend?'
"Much the same reflection did I make when I went to the
bank to deposit the cheque I had received. It was past two,
there was quite a string of depositors waiting their turns, and
as it was not very agreeable for a lady to take her place in a
line of young clerks, I went into the cashier's office. Mr. Des-
doity placed a chair for me with punctilious cordiality, and
taking my bank-book-'Selling more stock, Miss Helen? For
that, I take it, is the meaning of Mr. Nathan's cheque. Are
you going to buy a little more real estate ? Well, it is better !'--
And the old gentleman took the book himself to the teller, had
the entry made, and brought it back to me. He told me a
pleasant anecdote of my father, accompanied me to the door of
the bank and handed me into the carriage. 'So much,' thought
I, 'for bearing an unsullied name!'
"During my absence the house-agent had already put a bill
on the house. I could see where it had been: for Dr. Man-
nikin had torn it down in a rage.
"' I'll not have a bill on the house while my name is on the
door,' said he. 'It is an insult to me. If you want to let the
house, I will take it.'

"' Yoa cannot afford to live under such a rent, cousin Ezekiel,'
said I.
"'Perfectly well afford it--allow me to understand my own
interest.'
"'I shall expect my tenant to take the furniture off my
hands.'
"'Of course-I am ready to do that--on your own terms.'
"'That is all very well to say, cousin Ezekiel, provided I am
satisfied with the security.'
"'You shall have ample security. Here is your father's
library--I will mortgage it, and the furniture itself: that's
enough, I hope. I will engage to fulfil the unperformed part
of your contract with Mrs. Varick, and she will give up the
contract accordingly-that's fair. I will do anything in reason ;
but put a bill on the house you shan't.'
"'Do you mean to say, cousin Ezekiel, that I shall not put a
bill on my own house if I choose V
"' I do, while I am the tenant in possession, of which my
name on the door is prima facie proof.'
"I rang the bell. A servant appeared.
"'Hand this letter to Dr. Mannikin,' said I.
"He took it mechanically and broke it open. After a glance
he threw it into the fire.
"'It is a notice to the doctor,' said I, 'from my lawyer, to
quit the premises in thirty days ?--do you understand that,
Mary ?'
"' Yes, ma'am,' said the girl, with a terrified look.
"'You may go.' She darted off. 'I shall not quarrel with,
you, cousin Ezekiel, about the bill, but you cannot prevent the
house being advertised, and if there is any interference on your
part with the servants showing it to persons who call at the
hours designated, I will soon show you whether I am its mistress
or not by calling in the police.'
"My father's blood was boiling in my veins with the anger
and contempt that I hardly suppressed. He seemed cowed.
"What is thy motive, Helen, for such a step at this momentI
Wert thou about to marry, I could comprehend it.'
" ' My motive, Ezekiiel-if you must know it-is a very sim-


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.      143

142               ROSEMARY.

pie one. Mrs. Varick, as well as yourself, has lost my esteem,
and I cannot longer live under the same roof with either.'
"'This is extraordinary language,' answered he, reddening
violently. ' I insist on knowing precisely what it signifies.'
"My answer was prompt and crushed home. like a cannon-
shot. It was too frank, no doubt, for an unmarried girl, but my
blood was up, and I could not stand on trifles. He gave me a
look of horrible and cowardly malignity, accompanied with that
death's head smile which lately began to play over his sinister
features.
"'Say that again,' he hissed out, 'and I will kill you.'
" ' You won't kill me,' said I bitterly, 'for you would have to-
hang for it, and you value your precious neck too much to
place it in jeopardy.'
"'Servants' gossip!'
"'No, Dr. Mannikin ! Nothing short of the testimony of my
own eyes could have convinced me of the reality of such double.
dyed treason, guilt and infamy.'
'"You conclude from mere indiscretion to 'guilt.'
"'All I know of such guilt, sir, is that such indiscretions are
conclusive proof of it, and I desire to know no more.'"
"That," said Rosemary, admiringly, "was a noble and maid-
enly reply."
"War was now declared. There were incessant conferences
between Mrs. Varick and Ezekiel. The former refused to listen
to any proposition of mine to compromise her claim, unless I
would give Dr. Mannikin a lease of the house for a term of
years. Meanwhile I was soon left entirely alone with them and
the servants ; for Messrs. Forrester and Rus6, pursuant to my
notice, took apartments with Mrs. Passavant. Then occurred
a move of Mr. O'Morra's, which seemed to render the breach
irreparable. A very handsome woman, but pale, shy and half-
frightened, presented herself one morning with a letter of
introduction from him, which announced her simply as Mrs.
Grace, a lady actually keeping a small boarding-house in Brook-
lin, and desirous of trying her fortune on a larger scale in New
York. Mr. O'Morra added that if we could come upon terms
he would be security to an'j amount (underscored) for Mrs.

Grace's performance of her contract. I was very much pleased
with her, showed her the house from garret to cellar, except
Mrs. Varick's apartments-for that lady was so disagreeable on
these occasions that I avoided troubling her. Mrs. Grac seemed
equally pleased with the house--didn't care to see Mrs. Varick's
rooms-was quite willing to board that lady and her family in
part payment for the furniture, which she was prepared to pur-
chase entire-and agreed without haggling to the price which I
had caused to be estimated by an appraiser. I was quite
delighted with so reasonable a tenant, and one, despite a few
peculiarities of accent and some grammatical solecisms, so lady-
like. I told her that letting-the house under the circumstances
that I did, leaving in it a lady of very delicate and aristocratic
breeding, to be provided with board by my successor,. I felt
bound to satisfy myself that the general character of a first-class
house would be maintained, so that Mrs. Varick should have
no reason to complain either of the table or the persons whom
she might meet there, and with whom she would be compelled
in a certain degree to associate.
"'That's very right and proper, ma'am,' returned Mrs. Grace,
and those are just my own idears about the house. It is to be
A No. 1 in all respects-I understand that. I believe you have
a right to give Mrs. Varick a private table, if you choose, in her
own apartments ? It is what I would do, and then she couldn't
complain of her associates, nor I neither !'-And Mrs. Grace
smiled. 'As for her table,.she must be hard to please, if I don't
please her there: for she shall oider what she likes !'
"'As Mrs. Varick,' said I, 'is entitled to receive her visitors,
if she prefers it (as she always does) in the drawing-room, it is
implied that that suite shall be preserved in its present character
and not disposed of to families :-I am sorry to make so many
conditions?'
. Oh, no apologies is necessary !' cried Mrs. Grace. 'I
wouldn't let these beautiful and elegant parlors to nobody; no
money would tempt me; and then the chairs and sofeys would
be ruinated in six months ! Ah ! bless your heart ! I know
better than that M'
"On the other hand Mrs. Grace made a poit that the entire


144               ROSEMARY.

remainder of the house should be at her free disposal. I barely
hinted that Dr. Mannikin, who at present occupied the base-
ment, might probably apply to her in order to stay ; but Mrs.
Grace flushed up at that, and said she wouldn't have the base-
ment occupied by a doctor on any account whatever, and she
was not willing to sign any agreement, nor to hold me responsi-
ble for my bargain, till Dr. Mannikin was actually out of the
house ; 'not merely promised to go,' said she, emphatically,
'but actually gone !'-I need not say that I was enchanted to
find her resolute on this point.
"' I shall say then to Dr. Mannikin that he need not apply to
you,-as you will not let the basement to a doctor V
"' Tell him I have disposed of the basement already, and
that I won't have a doctor in the house. And mind, Miss Tan-
kerville'-with great earnestness, 'I don't consider it a bargain
till he is out of it, so that except Mrs. Varick's floor, you can
give me possession of the entire house.'
"'It is so understood,' said I, smiling at her vehemence.
" While we were discussing the matter in the drawing-room,
the doctor himself returned, and Mrs. Grace ran to the window
to see him get out of his carriage. I could not but observe her
paleness and agitation. She hid herself behind the curtain, and
demanded of me nervously, if it was at all likely he would come
upstairs. She remained at the window till he went out again,
and seemed to breathe freely only when the brougham drove
away. Before departing, she would take another look at the
two basement rooms, admired the office-furniture and library,
asked where the doctor slept, and made me show her the sofa-
bedstead, and explain how it worked. She was excessively
curious too, I thought, in wishing to know how my various
rooms were at present occupied, and inquired very particularly
into the character of Miss Smith, who she learned had occupied
the rooms. in the extension over the dining-room. I told her
that she was a thoroughly'estimable girl, an admirable teacher
for a young child, with excellent government and the purest
and most pious principles.'
"'Why did you part with her V asked Mrs. Grace.

THE CROWNING VILLAINY.                145
She insisted on leaving me, I was very sorry to lose her, I
assure you.'
"'Your little girl-I beg pardon, Miss Tankerville-your
little sister, I mean-is now at school--is she ? Why wouldn't
you board with me yourself, Miss Tankerville '
Next year, Mrs. Grace, when Mrs. Varick shall have left
you, perhaps I will,' said I.
"'Ah, you have had a quarrel with this grand Mrs. Varick,
who, they tell me, is one .of the most fasbinable ladies inall
New York ! She and Dr. Mannikin are great friends, I hear ?'
" We are not on the best of terms just now,' said I, smiling,
'so I never permit myself to speak of her affairs-except in the
way of business.'
"'Oh, I don't want to pry into any of your secrets, Miss
Tankerville,' replied Mrs. Grace. 'Neither Mrs. Varick, nor
her doings, nor her particular friends, nor who she is, nor what
she is, is anything to me. To me she is nothing but a boarder;
and so long as she bears a fair character before the world, I ask
no questions :-if she didn't behave herself, I would go to the
polce-office, as sure as you are born, and enter a complaint and
have her put into the street, just as I would any other disreput-
able person.'
"This clear statement relieved my mind of a great deal. I
saw that this shy Mrs. Grace had her eyes open, and knew what
was what, and especially what was due to herself, and probably
what she ought to think of the great lady whom she was to pro-
vide for ten calendar months with apartments and a table.
"You will not wonder that I found it difficult to maintain my
spirits in the extraordinary circumstances in wmiich I was placed,
I might have quitted the house, placing an officer in it to protect
property, and taken legal measures to get rid of my tenants ;
but to take this course would have produced a public scandal,
where now- there were only whispers and surmises, and would
have brought my own name before the public In'a way too pain-
ful. to be thought of. I wished the affair to be arranged without
scar above all; and I thought-not without taking the best and
surest advice any one can command in this world-you know
Imean, Rosemary--I thought that every scruple of dignity


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.

147

as well as of virtue was satisfied by leaving my house as
soon as I could without a violation of my engagements, and
compelling my cousin Ezekiel Manilku to quit it. The ser-
vants of course knew that Dr. Maiiikii aid Miss Taikeiville
had quarrelled ; on what subject, as I had cow nunicatel with
no one but Miss Smith, they could only conjecture. I met them
still at table. It was an iusupporta)le penance, but I endured
it to avoid what would have been worse. At iiight I sometimes
feared. I was q   e alone in the third story ; the servants
were above me ; Mrs. Varick and her family on the story below;
Dr. Mannikin in the basement. I thought of Miss Smith's
soothing draught and the potions of the children: often and
often in my dreams I saw Ezekiel approaching me with a pois-
onous dose, which I vainly attempted to resist swallowing.
" This incessant preoccupation of my mind with one thought,
the absence of any sympathetic companion with whom I could
relieve it, and the depressing effect which always attends living
with persons once intimate without being able ever to speak to
them with genuine abandon, the fearful constraint of ruptured
friendship and confidence betrayed, wore at last upon my health
as well as spirits. I counted the dlays, the hours, which must
elapse before I could be free ; and as the period approached,
and Dr. Mannikin showed no sign of preparing to leave the
house, and Isabel, as she left the room after one of our silent
meals, would furtively smile, a fear seized me lest after all they
had framed some subtle combination to defeat my purpose. I
had never been seriously ill a single day before since the un-
avoidable disorders of infancy ; and now I sickened, lost appe-
tite, passed sleepless nights, got a slow fever, and wandered
about restlessly with hollow eyes and trembling knees, like a
criminal expecting execution. My hard cousin ate with the
appetite of a wolf, as if crime helped his digestion; and Isabel
Varick, her complexion grew fresher, her face fuller, her whole
person more insolently luxuriant every day.
"I gave them both due notice of the arrangement I had made
with Mrs. Grace. I told Isabel what Mrs. Grace proposed
doing for her, and what sort of person she was ; very lady-like
in appearance, with some defects of education, sensible, shrewd

and decided. Isabel Varick sneered ; supposed she would fill
the house with vulgar rich people, with whom she could not
associate. She observed that it was entirely a different arrange..
ment from any which she had ever contemplated. At present
her friends when they called saw nobody but a young lad
whom they had been accustomed to see at her own house -her
companion and friend; now they would meet Mrs. Washington
Potts and goodness knows who else, all the Potts connections,
and Mrs. Grace too, floundering on two or three sofas at once
and the young ladies thundering at the piano and singing D'
anti palpiti of course, from morning tonight! She might sub-
mit to such an arrangement, because she could not help it. I
could not expect her to like it, or to say that she regarded it
as an honorable fulfilment of the spirit of our contract
"'Realy, Isabel,' said I, 'you have yourself fulfilled our
contract in its spirit so remarkably that I hardly expected that
observation from you!'
"'What do you mean V she asked, with an icy stare. 'Oh,
well, if you cannot explain your remarks, you had better not
make them.'
"When, however, I had made known to Dr Mannikin that
my incoming tenant would not on any terms let the basement
either to him or any other physician, and that he must positive
go on the second of January, if he would not oblige me by mov-
ing before, Mrs. Varick's contemptuous apathy was stirred I
Was very much mistaken, she told me, if I supposed she would'
submit to any such arrangement. Ezekiel laughed scornfully
- You can't turn me out of this house,' said he; 'I am your
tenant, and by the law all tenures of houses in New York, with-
out a written agreement, terminate on the first of May. O'Morra
knows that as well as E do.'
"On the last day of December I had a final consultation with
 M. OMorra on the plan to be pursued. He advised me still to
compromise with Mrs. Varick, if I could, even by a pretty large
pecuniary sacrifice, provided she would quit the house. He
treatedEzekiel's bravado about being my tenant with contempt,
'I doubt,' said he, 'if the doctor will venture to make affidavit of
that before a justice, or to -sustain it before ajjury: if he does,

I

146

ROSEMARY-.

*_,


THE CROWNING VILLAINY.

the consequences be on his own head-he will give me an op.
portunity for which I have too long thirsted.'
"Sad as was the time, I had some presents to buy for Laura,
and even for Roosey, as well as for the servants; the shops
were crowded as they ever are on New Year's Eve, and I was
belated before I had finished my purchases. The omnibuses
were all full, as they always are when you are in a particular
hurry ; it was long after dark when I reach- d home laden with my
parcels, exhausted, and feeling already the symptoms of a fever
which nearly cost me my life. I had then to dress for dinner;
though I could scarcely stand. At the table I fainted,'and I
suppose that Dr. Mannikin carried me with the aid of the ser-
vants into his back-office, for when I came to myself I was lying
on a sofa there, and one of the maids tending me. And there
was so much to do that evening, and I needed for it, all my
powers of body and mind! I resolved that before going up-
stairs, which I felt would be to take my bed for some time, I
would see Mrs. Varick and settle with her. I sent the girl to
tell her so. Dr. Mannikin came in and felt my pulse. He said
that Mrs. Varick had some visitors, but that if I would compose
myself, she would come down and see me there as soon as they
were gone. The servants brought me tea in Dr. Mannikin's
office, and after a while I fell into a kind of uneasy slumber--
half doz e and half delirium-on his sofa. I was awakened by
the doctor's telling me that Mrs. Varick was ready to see me,
and starting up, I saw that the mantel clock pointed to ten.
'The doctor's bed had been made up, showing that the servants
had probably retired. Feeling suddenly alarmed, and knowing
that in that case I was separated from them by three stories, I
made a pretence of wishing to see the cook.--' She is gone to
bed,' said the doctor ; 'so are all the servants ; the point is now
to attend to your business with Mrs. Varick, after which she
and I will help you upstairs, for you are not able to get to your
own room alone. You are going to have a fit of sickness,
madam.'
"Isabel sate opposite in an elegant demi-toilette--for hap
what would, she was always beautifully dressed. On the table
were papers, pen and ink,  d files of receipted bills. I must

have looked wo-begone enough, my hair falling about my
death-pale face, my dress partly unhooked, and a shawl around
me, just as I was left by the girls who took care of me when I
fainted. The doctor was calm as a surgeon before an opera-
tion, and politely offered me a glass of water, which I just
tasted.
I want to compromise this matter with you, if possible,'
said I, rallying my energies, and addressing Isabel,
How?'
"I offered her at once the largest amount which Mr. O'Morra
had designated-viz.: $4,000-if she would give up her con-
tract.- and the lease contained in it, and engage to quit the
premises within a week. I pointed out to her that it was
extremely for her interest to accept the offer, for let her give
what extravagant terms she liked ior rooms elsewhere, she
would save at least half the amount-quite enough to support
her another year.
"She accepted the offer, on condition that I would draw the
cheque immediately, when she would sign a release of the con-
tract. I was overjoyed at this happy termination of the affair,
with which I had less reason to be dissatisfied as within a twelve-
month prices had gone up at least twenty-five per cent. (in
mercantile phrase) and the appraiser had consequently estimated
the value of the furniture of which I now became fully possessed,
as if it had just come from the shop. Everything was done as
fairly as possible. Dr. Mannikin produced a blank cheque,
rehI     e  up and signed; and Isabel wrote and signed a
release, and handed it to me together with her copy of our con-
tract, which I put into the fire.
" I was going, but Dr. Mannikin requested me to be seated
He had a little business also. H' wanted a lease of the house.
e said that le understood very well the object ofthis recent
movement of mine ; it was inspired by his pe sonal enemy, and
valsamed at himself. To deprive him of the house was equi-
l     to destroying his practice,  Besides xll that, he had a
cai upon me, which he had never intended to enforce, but
driven as he was to extremities by a conspiracy between O'Morra
s cursed wife (for no doubt I knew who Mrs. Grace was),

14S

ROSEMARY.

a

149


150

ROSEMARY.

a conspiracy to which I had made myself a party, he should
keep no terms with me or with them. Then laying his hand
on the files of receipted bills,-' Here is the evidence,' he added,
'that I have paid the expenses of this house for two years past
--butcher's bills, grocer's bills, coal-bills, all made out against
me and all paid by me. The whole amounts to some thousands
of dollars--'
"'Cousin Ezekiel!' I interrupted. 'You cannot be so un-
principled as to pretend that you have paid those bills! You
know that I gave you the money to do it. I only did it, at your
request, to give you consequence.'
"'Can you prove that assertion, madam? If not, you had
best not make it.'
"I saw that his course was taken. He adhered .to this state-
ment. Mrs. Varick stubbornly sustained him in it. Here was
a debt evidently standing against me, and entered in his books.
If I would give him a lease for five years, with privilege of
renewal, at a low rent, he would destroy these receipts in my
presence, but otherwise he should take such measures as would
make me rue the day that ever I knew him. So saying he sate
down at the table and read the lease which he had drawn up.
The rent was fixed at $600, to commence with the first of May
following; I was to give him a receipt in full for the first year
in lieu of the unpaid balance of the stipend that I owed him.
Do you believe me when I tell you that those infamous people
would not allow me to leave them till I had signed this paper ?
It was two in the morning, before, under the influence of threats
so terrible that to hear them only deprived me almost of my
senses, and utterly worn out by their persevering cruelty, to
escape from their hands and their persecution, I consented to
everything they proposed. Isabel Varick's eyes flashed with
so fiendish a joy that I half suspected eveh then that I had
done more, and was more in their power than I suspected.
Not a word was said about the furniture, without which it
would be impossible for them to get along: but I was too glad
to be let alone, and to crawl upstairs, to mind anything. In fact)
I fully believed that I should die, and little cared I for the rest.

CHAPTER XIV.
ISS TANKERVILLE'S STORY FINISHED---ALARMING INCIDENT.
"THE six weeks that followed were nearly a blank to me
When the time came for Mr. O'Morra to eject Dr. Mannikin,
that gentleman alleged that the difficulty between himself and
his cousin was arranged, and produced his lease. O'Morra in-
sisted on seeing me. He found me .in bed, delirious. He in-
sbted on a consultation. The consulting physician agreed with
Dr. Manikin that I had a low fever of malignant type, comi-
mended the doctor's prescriptions, and supported his opinion that
I could not be removed without extreme danger. Owing to the
malignity of the case, Mrs. Varick had fled with her children
Ezekiel was doubtless sincerely anxious to save my life, know-
ing that in my hands lie was much safer from a legal prosecu-
tion than he would be in those of Mr. O'Morra, who was my
executor and guardian of my sister. One servant was allowed
to attend me; my medicines he administered himself. At last
I was convalescent-
" Until I was pronounced out of danger, O'Morra sent Or
called every day to make inquiries. In the meantime Ezekiel had
taken measures to put me out of the house as soon as I was fit
toene moved. While I was unconscious, every formality had
been complied with ; and as I did not appear to defend myself
i the obscure court t where he ertered his complaint of forcible
detaofer, a writ was issued to eject me. The object of this move
was of course to put himself in possession not only of the house,
but pofe future, so that I could not recover either unless by
a Process of law. The first day that he judged me able to go
fod sis, D. Mannikin waited on me in my room and in.
formed me that a sheriff's deputy was below to turn me out of
, in that I must leave immediately. In vain I re-

#


ALARMING INCIDENT.

inonstrated with him on the brutality of thus turning me out,
without giving me time to look for other quarters, or for a place
to store my furniture.
" ' Furniture !' said he, scornfully. 'What you have is easily
stored. The Varick furniture, I suppose you know, belongs to
me. Mrs. Varick never had any right to sell it. There is a
bill of sale from her husband to me. Had you treated me
honorably,' I never should have mentioned it, but after your
joining in the defeated conspiracy to ruin me and Mrs. Varick,
I stand upon my legal rights. So pack at once! These old
traps that belonged to your father you can of course move out:
there are men here waiting to put them into the street,.'-And
without another word he threw open the door and called in the
porters.
"1Resistance was vain. The men were accustomed to move
out refractory tenants. I had an old bureau, older sofa, some
venerable chairs, a child's crib which stood in Laura's room,
and other relics of my mother's housekeeping. These were
readily taken out one after another; IDr. Mannikin stood by
giving directions in an imperious tone. I requested him to
withdraw that I might pack my clothes.
I'll pack them for you,' said he,; 'we can't stand on deli-
cate ceremonies, Miss, to-day.'--And opening a large trunk, he
went himself, in spite of my resistance, to the various presses,
drawers, &amp;c.; took out my dresses and flung them in pell-mell,
and when the trunk was full, even going the length of empty-
ing with his own hands drawers that contained soiled under-
clothing, all in a heap, into a large uncovered basket, sending it
down stairs, and standing it on the side-walk-an outrage incre-
dible, accomplished by physical violence, and which no woman
can ever forgive. The very officer who was present with a jus-
tice's warrant for this unmanly insult,.and who had been led to
believe that I was a troublesome lodger who failed to pay my
rent, was shocked, and when he saw me come down stairs,
pale with recent illness, in tears, and the servants all weeping
and boldly crying shame-' To turn Miss Tankerville out of her
own house !' he said to the doctor-' I believe that you are a
great villain, sir !'-' why don't you turn him out, then ' cried

I. 'For this house and everything in it, except the office furni-
ture, are mine, I assure you .'-' Madam,' said the officer, 'I
don't doubt your word, but my orders is to turn you out. You
must sue him, ma'am, and justice will be done you !'--'For
every wrong there is a remedy,' said an inferior official. 'If
the d octor have wronged you, Miss, you can sue him for damages
afterwards.'
"The truth of my being the injured party struck them all
when I had the pictures in the drawing-room taken down.
Then I bethought me of my silver. I moved direct to the
dining-room. It was the hour of luncheon, and the table was
set. To my surprise Mrs. Varick was there; for the servants
had told me of her departure, and I had not heard of her return.
"' Oh!' she exclaimed. 'You are going-are you? Won't
you take pot-luck with us l'-Rising as if we were the best
friends in the world. It was her pet expression.
"'No, Mrs. Varick,' said I, ' I am not going to take pot-luck;
I'm going to take my silver.'
"'Pardon me,' said Dr. Mannikin, who followed me close 'I
can't allow the silver to le've the house. There's a bill due me
for your board these two months past, and for medical attend-
ance. I shall retain the silver as security for the debt.'
"This was the last drop that made the cup overflow. Hith-.
erto, indignant as I was, I had observed all the refined rules of
lady-like conduct even in resenting the infamous treatment I
had received. I could contain myself no longer. I marched
resolutely to the side-board, where the silver-basket stodd in full
view, and took it. Dr. Mannikin approached to take it from me
by force. I seized a large carving-knife that lay on the table to
cut a round of cold spiced beef. It was sharp-pointed and keen
as a razor.
You cowardly scoffndrel,' said I, panting with rage, 'touch
me if you dare, and I will strike this knife into your heart
You keep my silver indeed!'
t"Brandishing the carver, before which he retreated, I made
the circuit of the table, picking up the spoons, forks, and every
other article that was of silver, and threw them into my basket
Mrs. Varick got hastily out of my way--I believe she thought I

ROSEMARY.

152

153


154                   ROSEMARY.
was mad. I ended by taking a large silver tureen from the
sideboard, filling it with the goblets, and such articles as were
not kept in the basket, and calling one of the girls, who came
with a good-will,-lashing him all the while (as women do) with
my tongue to keep up my own courage and damp his,-we car-
ried all out together, and I never quitted the knife till I got into
the street. Then as I turned and threw it down in the ball, I saw
Dr. Mannikin and Mrs Varick following me with affected
laughter. I stepped back like a lioness at bay : they retreated
a step.
" "'Laugh!' said I, bitterly. 'Yes, you may laugh. You have
robbed me between you of half I possessed in the world ! But
I have one treasure left which you have forfeited, sir-honor!
And one more precious still which you have not, madam-.
chastity!',
"Ezekiel rushed towards me, but the officer pushed him back,
and leading me out, shut the door upon him.
" A crowd of boys had collected to see a lady put upon the
sidewalk like a beggar who can't pay her rent. The neighbors
looked from the windows-not one of them personally known to
me-for the neighborhood had changed and they were new-
comers. I believe they thought I was some light character
turned out for cause. Exhausted by passion, and feeling my
physical weakness once more, I sank into one of the chairs, put
down my head and sobbed aloud. I might have been robbed
of everything and I should not have noticed it.
"It is not necessary to linger over the rest. Of course I got
into safe and respectable quarters at last, and sent for Mr.
O'Morra. I shan't stop either to explain why (in spite of his
boiling indignation at my weakness) I declined to prosecute
Dr. Mannikin. That gentleman had rightly calculated that
neither desire of vengeance nor the wish to recover my property
would weigh against my family pride and dread of an eclat.
He was sure of this from the first moment that I showed it was
my intention to get rid of them quietly, and he acted on that
knowledge."
" Ah! that was your grand mistake, Miss Helen," said Rose-
mary. "At the first instant of that terrible discovery, I would

ALARMING INCIDENT.        155

have quitted the house, with my sister, and gone-anywhere.
Then I would have entrusted the whole affair to my man of
business, and the faces of those wicked people never have looked
at again !"
"It is easy to criticize after it is all over, and you not a party
involved. No doubt I was cowardly, weak, and demoralized by
the humiliating position in which I found myself. No one could
associate so long and so intimately with such people and imbibe
no harm.  True maidenly courage would have acted as you
suggest, and the result would have been very different."
"You were educated, Miss Helen, at Madam Commifaut's,
which I have always heard was a very fashionable school, and
you know a great many things that I do not. I was brought
up at home, or in.a convent, and yet I don't think I should have
been taken in by Isabel Varick in the very beginning, as you
were. Your story convinces me that innocent people have in-
stinctive distrusts which serve to protect them. Even when a
child I had such premonitions about Isabel Varick, although I
could not have the faintest idea of her incredible badness. Now
I seem to be saying that you were'not innocent, but you know
that is not what I mean, my dear Miss Tankerville."
' Innocence is a relative term. I was not altogether so inno-
cent as you are," said Miss Tankerville, with a look of great
tenderness.
"I like you best," said Rosemary, smiling, "when that horn-
ble Dr. Mannikin turns you into the street. A wise'man, whom
I dearly love, said to me once' A woman's tongue is given her
for a defence !'-And he bade me never fear to use it when I
had occasion. I could kiss the feet of a penitent of the Good
Shepherd; but such a shameless creature as that,-I should
hold it less unladylike to spit in her face than to speak to her
in terms of seeming friendship. But pray go on with your
story, and bring it down to the present time."
"That summer was occupied in re-establishing my health. In
the autumn-the Fall, as we Americans poetically term it-I
hired another house (for boarding was utterly distasteful to me),
and to eke out my income in part, and partly for the comfort of
society, gave apartments to some real friends, Mr. O'Morra


ALARMING INCIDENT.

being the chief. A few years later to avoid all kinds of
intercourse, even indirect, with Dr. Mannikin, I sold my house,
and bought this one, where I have regularly embarked in the
business, as you perceive. It was time, because Laura was
growing up like a weed, and I saw that in a few years ray
means would be cut off by her marriage. It has turned out
very well. People like to board with a lady who has no rent to
pay, who cannot be turned out of her house because the land-
lord wants to ;ell or build, and lastly who is a lady. Mr.
O'Morra has fitted up his own apartments as if he were to be an
eternal fixture here. Meanwhile, although I lay up nothing
directly, I am growing rich, he tells me, by the rise in value of
my property. Nobody in Brooklyn is more respected, I believe,
than Miss Tankerville."
"And your sister ?"
"Oh! about a year and a half ago, Commander Varick came
here seeking board. Odious as the name was to me, I admitted
him for old acquaintance' sake: for I had not seen him since
he danced with me in his middy's uniform on the night of my
first party. An old maid has always a weakness for the beaux
of her youth. I am glad that there is a Varick of whom I can
speak well. The commander (now Captain Varick) is as brave
and noble a fellow as ever trod quarter-deck, telescope in hand.
He wanted a room in my house because he could see his ship
from-the windows. When he had been with me a month, and
everybody in the house was in love with the candor and noole-
ness of the man, Laura came home for her vacation. What will
you have'?  Dashon (as we love to call him) was a sailor. He
invited us to visit his ship; and Laura, whom I regarded as a
child, and scolded her for her forwardness in asking Captain
Varick so many questions, and giving him so much trouble, and
screaming like a little fool because his gig rocked on the fresh
waves of the bay, entangled his heart with that simple school-
girl net; and before she has been at home a week, the com-
mander comes to ask my permission. I refuse, and tell him the
outlines of my unfortunate connection with the family. le
swears to shoot Dr. Mannikin. I say if he does he shall never
have Laura. In fine, 1 consult Mr. O'Morra, and give my con-

sent provided his family are willing. He applies to his family.
The Varicks make an unheard-of row; for the captain's expect..
ations are considerable; he must have his share of old Peter
Varick's property when his father dies, who has ohly a life
estate, and they want him to marry (as I told you before) his
cousin, Miss Dashon, the great heiress. The captain was in a
great rage, for the theory of the Varicks has always been that
this girl, whom old Mr. Dashon had acknowledged after his
son's death, was illegitimate. however, to please them  he
drove over to the Sacred heart, where she was at school, to see
her, ie described the interview to us on his return. Miss
Dashon was not at all to his taste; dark, plain, no manner
dressed like an overgrown school-girl, none of Laura's womanly
graces, or fine eye for costume, and not a word to say, only to
offer both cheeks to her aunt Varick aad the tips of her fingers
to her sailor cousin. No hope of marrying her under two years,
which would be three for him; and no certainty of it then ex-
cept that his lady mother assured that Miss Dashon had no
mind of her own, and would conform exactly to the will of her
grandparents, who both desired the match. At all events the
gil never looked at him, never smiled till they rose to depart
and a mountain of prize money wouldn't tempt him to take
such an iceberg for his consort. In short the man was past
thirty, and had reason on his side as weli as sentiment, and
Laura being nearly seventeen, and he to sail in a few months
on a three 'ears' cruise, it was either marry at once, or not at
all. So I dispensed with the permission of the illustrious house
of Vatick, and we had a wedding in this house to which half
Brooklyn was invited. What is more to the point, Dashon had
never been baptized ; this was an essential point, you know;
and it was attended, to by him so piously ; and they were mar-
ried in Sydney Place at eight o'clock in the morning, without
dipensation and with all the ceremonies; and I felt more than
ever glad that suffer what I might I had not inflicted on the
name of Varick an open and indelible disgrace."
Every one of the race, and all related to them, owe you a
debt of everlasting gratitude for that," said Rosemary, with
feeling g frtht"si.osmrwt

157

156

ROSEMARY.


ALARMING INCIDENT.        159

ROSEMARY.

"And what Varick are you? for your blushes and emotion at
parts of my story prove that you do belong to them. Yet I
cannot fix you."
The young lady hesitated, looked down, blushed.
'' I am the daughter of Richard Varick Dashon-'handsome
Dick Dashon,' Miss Tankerville-the young lady of whom your
gallant brother-in-law gave you so flattering a description !"
" You Miss Dashon ! old Roosevelt Dashon's granddaughter
and heiress !" exclaimed Miss Tankerville, quite stupefied.
"They call me Dashon-it was the name of my father-I ne-
ver claim it-nor ever will till something happens which perhaps
never will happen."
"I understand-Tsabel Varick used to maintain that you
were not born in wedlock."
"I do not blame her, for saying so--for I have supplanted
them all," said Rosemary, gently.
"But I never knew that Miss Dashon was dead-still less
that she died on her wedding-night-as you did, or were thought
to do!"
"Who says I died on my wedding-night 7" demanded Miss
Dashon, with a vivid blush.
"Dr. Mannikin, I believe. lie did not say you wire married,
but that you died at the altar : which your dress when brought
here confirmed."
" Dr. Mannikin is too deep for me. I cannot conceive his
motive for such a very singular untruth. What else did he
say ?"
"That you were buried as you died, in your wedding clothes,
at your own express desire before you breathed your last, or
something to that effect."
"Worse and worse ! Do you think I am the sort of person
to be guilty of such a piece of weak sentimentality in my
last moments?  Depend upon it if I 'thought myself dying
I should be a great deal more apt to be thinking what would
become of my poor soul in the other world than of the way my
body shoid be dressed for the funeral."
"I cannot allow that I was very stupid not to think .of this
before," said Miss Tankerville; "for if you are Miss Dashon-

Roose'velt Dashon's granddaughter-is it not excessively strange
that I never heard either of your intended marriage or supposed
death? True, we have no intercourse with the Varicks, yet
surely some of our friends would have observed so noticeable an
event; and Laura, who reads all the papers, hoping to get news
of the squadron, and never misses the deaths and marriages,
would be sure to light upon it."
"That you never heard of my intended marriage," said Miss
Dashon, with a singular expression, "is not so surprising. I
own that I am a little puzzled myself that you never heard of
my death. Certainly, it was no secret. I. heard it said that
fifty carriages followed me to Gieenwood. IT MUST HAVE BEEN
N THE PAPERS !"
At this moment a sepulchral voice was distinctly heard, as if
close to them saying
"IT WAS NOT IN THE PAPERS !"
Both the women started up in affright. Rosemary shrieked.
Miss Tankerville ran to the closet. A man darted from the
long folds of the curtain that fell from the canopy of the bed,
sprang to the window, threw it open, and disappeared.
"Goodness !" said Miss Tankerville.
"IHoly Virgin, protect me !" said Rosemary.
The latter stood in the middle of 'the room as if transfixed,
her eyes dilated with terror. Miss Tankerville, with her wonted
physical- courage, ran to the open window, and stepped out
on the balcony.  A knotted rope, fastened by aid of a loop
round one of the rails, plainly indicated how the intruder had
both entered and escaped. The time as evidently had been
while they were engaged in searching the parlors below, after
their first fruitless alarm. Miss Tankerville drew in the rope,
pulling it through the loop, and dragged it into the room.
"It is I that am aimed at still !" said the terrified Rosemary.
"IHow lucky I sate up with you to-night telling stories ! My
lengthy narrative has baffled some nefarious project, doubtless.
Rosemary, you must always close your shutters after dark, and
bar them on the inside! And I will not quit you to-slight."
Searching the carpet they found behind the bed a bottle ,f
chloroform.

158


160                     ROSEMARY.
"I believe after all," said Miss Tankerville, " that they are
vulgar thieves, and that your pearls, not you, were the object
sought. He would disdain to have recourse to so vulgar an
expedient as chloroform!"
Gradually yielding to this not improbable hypothesis, the                                         B 0 0 K   II.
nerves of Rosemary became tranquillized, and long before Miss
Tankerville closed her eyes, the younger lady slept the deep                                 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.
and heaven-bestowed sleep of youth and innocence.
Tnus far have we followed the rule laid down by the famous
author of the Art of Poetry. We plunged at once, in our First
Book, 'in medlias res-into the very crisis and fire-heat of the
story : for surely the death, burial and resurrection of the
Heroine are nothing less. Then by way of episode we have had
a history which sets before us the antecedents of some of the
principal villains of the fiction, whom the discerning Rea  al-.
ready detects -as deeply implicated in the sinister event  ch
has so nearly cost the heroine her life, and which for the pres-
ent has separated her from her family and her betrothed, and
thrown her among strangers. In listening to this history of an-
other, Rosemary has perceived a strong though mysterious light
to flash upon her own. ' The story of Miss Tankerville was very
necessary in another point of view, viz.: in order to make an
artful transition between the romanticist torch-light glare of
Rosemary's first entrance upon the stage, and the pure yet not
untroub~led daylight of her childhood's history. For it is now
high time that we resume her story from its beginnings, and
satisfy the curiosity of the reader by showing who she was, and
what causes led to the singular but powerr true" events thus far
recorded.
One design that we have in these Introductory Chapters is to
eluidlate the moral of the narrative, which otherwise some per-
sons would be dull enough to miss. The unsophisticated reader,
- indeed, will at once perceive it without any help of ours; since
it lies quite on the surface; it is the sophisticated--those who
have already a theory about books, and hence see nothing na-
turally and simply, whose misapprehensions we have to guard
against,


'162               ROSEMARY.

Now in the story of Miss Tankerville we see the impossibility
of navigating the treacherous ocean of life, even with ever so
good a will to arrive safely at port, without either rudder or
compass. The compass is a knowledge of our vocation; the
rudder implies authority. Here was a young woman left to her
own guidance, without father, husband or guardian, and she
got on a lee shore and. drifted among the rocks. It needs no
long line, no heavy plummet, nor any of the appliances of deep-
sea fishing, to fetch up this old time-honored moral, which is
good enough for us.
Book Second will also comprise the personal history of a-
young woman of the higher ranks. The original type of her
character is richer in the elements which tend to splendid
evils, and her surroundings will be more abundant in tempta-
tion on the side where her sex is most liable to it. We shall
n    restall the narrative. It will contain more than one illustra-
tion of our principle. If in so simple and, as it were, every day
maxim the reader does not find a sufficient moral, he will search
in vain for one in these pages: for we have not undertaken to
talk like a prayer-book, in order to prove that we may be read
with profit. This is not a prayer-book, but a story, written
expressly to win the attention of those who will r: ad nothing
but stories, and sensational ones at that ; and if we succeed in
adding to the species that literary merit in which most speci-
mens that we have seen are notably deficient, we shall be con-
tent. It will go hard if we do not produce something at least
as well worth reading as the masterpieces of Mr. Sylvanus
Cobb (Jr.), or the still sublimer productions of the author (ess)
of the "Hidden Hand !"  After provolking such a comparison,
nobody certainly will accuse us of a want of proper humility.

CHAPTER I.
THE GRANDPARENTS.
M. RoMARIN was a Frenchman by birth, of the class of art-
ists. It was a family that had seen better days. The grandsire
of M. Romarin was a judge in the reign of Louis XVI., and
ennobled by letters patent of that monarch, so that his descend-
ant might, if he had liked, have prefixed to his patronymic the
symbolic de, so much valued by the French aristocracy of the
gown. This ancestor lost all in the Revolution, his gray head
inclusive; and his son was swept into the army by the conscrip-
tion, where his gallantry might have won him another "de"
from Napoleon I., but he was killed in the rank of captain, and
wearing the cross of the Legion of Honor, in the campaign of
Austerlitz. The young Romarin (son of the last-mentioned)
was educated at the imperial expense in a military school, and
was old enough to participate in the disastrous campaigns of
1813-14. After the events of 1815, having no hopes of promo-
tion, and mortally disaffected to the Bourbons, he came to
America, where he taught fencing, music, and his native lan-
guage. For the last metier he'had a decided genius. His
method of oral instruction in French, original with him, but
adopted by more fortunate teachers since, and rendered famous
bythegrammars aud manuals of Ollendorf, needs only to be
. He would have become rich by his pupils, had he
not been cursed with a taste for so many arts besides. Romarin
drew very well, and might have succeeded as a painter; but his
passion, or perhaps I should say, his hobby, was music. He
spent a third of his waking life in the vain attempt to make
himself a great pianist. He composed an opera, but he could
never get it per r mad. The artists said it was really superb,
but quite impractica)le. This misdirected ambition kept Ro-


164               ROSEMARY.

marin, in spite of so much talent and industry, always poor.
The "know thyself" is the first requisite of successful genius.
Romarin had a fine person, in a poetical style-dark eyes,
curling black hair, a well-formed brow, classic features. His
female pupils admired him hugely. He became passionately
amoureux of one, the belle of the season, a very beautiful girl
according to the standard of that time, and of the highest
social position in the city; who flirted with the dark-eyed, for-
eign music teacher (Romarin had not commenced his French
classes at that date, nor invented his great system), listened to
his vows, half promised to run away with him, and ended by
marrying a rich merchant. This heartless behavior (no for-
eigner at first understands what is meant by flirtation) nearly
broke Romarin's heart, but he was a brave man, and as it
happened that there was another young lady very much eprise
d lui at the same time, desolated that he was, he magnani-
mously took pity on her and married her off hand. There
never was a sweeter creature on earth than the young West-In-
dian whom Romarin wedded. Her name was Floreal, child of
a planter in Guadaloupe whose estate had been swallowed up
by an earthquake. She was not beautiful, nor striking in any
way; but she was good; like a very child in innocence and
sweet broken English ; and Romarin made an incomparably
lucky bargain when he married her instead of the brilliant and
worldly Isabel Varick. Unfortunately our climate did not suit
her, and after the birth of her second child, a sickly infant and
short-lived, she went into a decline and died, leaving Romarin
with a little girl to bring up. It was this daughter of Romarin's,
who at the age of twenty became the mother of Rosemary.
Rosemary was born in the attic of a tenant-house in Varick
street.-" But stop !" you cry. "  Is that all you are going to
tell us about it ' What preceded her birth-that is what we
want to know, and which, you have promised to narrate !" My
dear madam, you know as well as I do (if you have read Miss
Tankerville's story) that Rosemary's father was "handsome
Dick Dashon," only son of a rich merchant, whose wife, and
consequently the mother of Dick, was a Varick before her mar-
riage: there's the whole genealogy ! This young man--Richard

Varick Dashon-was a well-bred, well-educated young fellow,
who had graduated with credit at Columbia College, and was
reading law in the office of C. O'Morra, Esq. He was also a pupil
of Romarin's; for his mother had said to him --" My son, your
French accent is detestable, and I know of but one teacher in
the city who could correct it: that's Captain Romarin, ex-offi-
cer of Napoleon's army." Dick Dashon had a great way of
taking his mother's advice; her influence over him was un-
bounded, and was the source both of his faults and of his vir-
tues: for Dick was not only handsome, but for , young New-
Yorker virtuous,-if virtue admits of a secundum quid. The
virtue of a young New-Yorker that does not admit of a second
quid, and a third quid, and lots of cigars into .the bargain,
must be a tip-top virtue, you opine. However, Varick Dashon
was a good son, a trifle extravagant (as young men are apt
who have unlimited pocket-money), a terrible fireman, captain of
a company, which kc l)t him out at all hours and gave him a
slight but dangerous proclivity for brandy and cigars--it was a
perfect insanity these fire-companies in Dick Dashon's time: on
the other hand his mother rather encouraged it-" for young
men with such an excess of moral an physical energy as Dick
must have excitement," she said. II  was a magnificent fellow
physically, no doubt, strong as a young lion, with the head of an
Apollo set on his broad shoulders,and equally superb to see in
the yellow-gaunueted and switch-caned attire of a Broadway
promenade, or in red-shirt and fireman's cap, splashed hip-high
with mud and drenched with the 'water of his own ppand
bawling through his trumpet at a ire.  under all  pipe,and
he                           fie thde -llcircumstandes
was the same irresistible Dick Dashon. His name-pro-
nounced Dash-on!.--became the cry of his men, and with the
wxitbys and youths who crowded to every fire to partake the
excitement, it was the synonym of daring energy and invincible
pluck.
This splendid young man had features and bore a name-which
after the lapse of twenty years still powerfully affected Romarin,
who declined giving him lessons unless Varick would come to his
cos; Mfor nothing could have induced the ex-oficer to
s threshold as the tutor of her son. Varick

TiE G1 ANDPARENTS.         165

,.
,.:   =
' :
'           ,
" r
Y        r _y
.
't ; sj
,
.. r


THE GRANDPARENTS.           167

166                ROSEMARY.

readily consented to this arrangement, which showed neverthe.
less a great Want of ordinary prudence on the part of Romarin.
Nay, so little forethought did he show (being then absorbed in
his grand opera) that one day when he missed Varick's lesson
to attend a rehearsal, he requested Th6rese to supply his place
by asking the conversational questions in that famous manual
invented and composed by himself. The pupil (at nineteen
who would have felt otherwise'?) was not at all chagrined at the
substitution ; the lesson proved three hours long instead of one,
and the conversation was not confined to the questions in
Romarin's book.-
When papa returned he found Dashon still receiving his
lesson. Fancy the explanations, fancy the pupil dismissed, and
the daughter forbidden to see him more. Imagine that the
self-willed Varick applies to his own astonished parents.
Conceive, if you can, their indignation and dismay, and how
completely even Mrs. Roosevelt Dashon has forgotten that she
learned her own famous French accent, long time ago, from the
lips of love and Romarin,
Romarin's domestic affairs were regulated and administered
by a Swiss bonne named Louise. These bonnes and feminine
domestics were in all time so many go-betweens. Is it not no-
torious'? One believes that Louise was much the same. If not
a venal ally of Dashon, she was no less effectually bribed by her
devotion to her young mistress, and a natural desire to promote
her advancement in life. In fact, but for the native tendencies
of bonnes and maids to accomplish the views of lovers rather
than of parents, half the romances could never take place.
There is no doubt that Dashon and Therese met often in secret.
By and by Mademoiselle fled with her lover, and, some months
after, Rosemary was born.
" Were they not married, then '?" asks the reader, very much
shocked. Dear reader ! I should be as much shocked as you if
I thought they were not. Indeed I never should have written
this history at all if I had not been well convinced of the con-
trary. It is a sufficient fault already to have made a clandes-
tine marriage. Not that Varick Dashon regarded it as a fault.
,In the eyes of young New York at that period it was rather

rigorously a merit. That love, if sincere and honorable, justi-
fied any extravagance, was perfectly established in the ethics of
nearly all his associates under twenty. Besides, I always
thought that Varick's family had only themselves to blame.
He was an affectionate son, but obedience as obedience he had
never known. Mrs. Dashon did not obey her husband : she
could not complain if her son (in a critical point) obeyed neither.
Their opposition also was unreasonable and violent, and it pro-
ceeded chiefly from his mother ; for his father, though his wife
made him dislike the match, was disposed to temporize ; but
Mrs. Roosevelt Dashon was a very great lady, with a very
strong will, and she ruled the house; and she had set her foot
down (to use a vulgar expression) that Romarin's daughter
should never be its mistress. No doubt Mademoiselle Romarin
was much more to blame. One shows less mercy always to the
lady in these runaway affairs. Women especially are slow to
pardon her, and yet I should like to see what some of these fair
censors would do if ilzey had a lover like Varick Dashon. It
was a youth accu tomed to have his own way entirely, and who
knew not the name of fear. Once--it was while he was courting
Therese-he scaled a fourth story window to rescue a lame
child, only a minute before the roof fell in: the unsupported
wall on which the spliced ladder rested trembled as he de-
scended with his helpless burden. A silver trumpet was pre-
sented to Capt. Dashon for this gallant action. It was not so
easy as you perhaps think for a girl of nineteen-a poor teach-
er's daughter-to deny the honorable suit of such a brave fellow
as that-so flattering to her ambition and to every other natural
sentiment. Then I am afraid she had a very bad adviser in
Louise. When the simple-hearted bonnie saw that her young
mistress was impetuously pursued by a young man of such
force of character and so high a social rank as Varick Dashon,
she concluded at once that it must end either in marriage or
some dreadful catastrophe, a ruined reputation or a broken
heart, or both: for " his family will never consent," she said,
"and my master is too proud to give his consent without theirs ;"
so she counselled her adored pet and foster-child to wed without
it. I know that Th6rese sharply reproved her bonne for this


THE GRANDPARENTS.

139

indiscreet advice, which however by no means proves that she
did not subsequently follow it. It rested entirely with herself
to do so, for the only thing necessary to make a marriage by
our laws, was a mutual contract, even without witnesses, and it
appears that there was more than this, whereof the following is
- the evidence.
The old French bishop of New York was a friend of the
Romarins, and the confessor of Mlle. Romarin. It is a fact and
was thought a little scandalous by some, that she never inter-
mitted her monthly communion during the whole year that re-
ceded the birth of her child. The bishop himself gave her
communion just before this event, while she was living openly
with Varick. It was the inference, drawn by everybody who
witnessed it, that the bishop himself had married them; and the
reasoning on which this inference proceeded was found after-
wards to have great legal force.
A motive for concealment was not wanting.. Varick's father
had given him a certain allowance, which was to be withdrawn
if he married Miss Romarin; an allowance at that moment in-
dispensable to their support: it would appear that they both
endured the appearance of an illicit connection, or rather ab-
stained from the formal avowal of a marriage which everybody
would infer to exist, from the sheer apprehension of want. They
lived in great retirement, without even a servant, and had their
meals sent in from a restaurant; while, as the Providence which
commonly suffers all kinds of irregularities to work their own
punishment willed it, at the time of Rosemary's birth, Varick
was absent at Washington soliciting a government clerkship,
(showing a determination to provide for himself, and 'so infer-
ring a marriage, without which he needed no such provision);
and the mother, after passing two days without attendance--for
the birth of her infant had taken her b surprise-was found on
the third delirious and expiring :-it is quite a tragedy. The
marks on her linen enabled the charitable strangers who visited
her to trace her family. Suffice it that Romarin was sent for,
received his daughter's last unconscious sigh and took care of
her burial. On her tombstone he caused to be inscribed merely
her Christian name, her age, the date of her death, and the name

of her parents-leaving a blank space for all other particulars
As for Varick Dashon, he returned with disappointment, not
knowing his wife's death: for Romarin himself supposed that
he had deserted her. What passed between them no one knows ;
but they parted in apparent kindness: Varick left his little girl
with her maternal grandfather; and, without communicating
with his own family, whom he regarded as the authors of hi
misfortunes, sailed for Europe. His letters were very brief and
far apart; they constantly spoke of Rosemary as his child but
neger alluded to Therese except once, where in feeling terms he
deplored his "irreparable loss," and expressed the hope of a
"reunion in a happier life."
Dashon suffered extremely from poverty at first; afterwards
he enlisted in the foreign legion of the French army, and was
killed i Algeria, in an action where he greatly distinguished
himself. His bod v was embalmed by his fellow-officers and sent
home; the French government sent his sword and heln and
decorations to his parents, with an autograph letter, full of sen-
timent, from the Minister of War. Romarin talked a great deal
of this, saying with pride: "He is the father of my little girl!"
Rosemary (who, however, was always called Mademoiselle Ro.
marin) was put into mourning ; and the wealthy Dashons--they
Went into deep mourning for their son-adding the weeds with
out, to the plrofpunder deuji they had long worn upon the heart.
Now it wad, when their only son was actually no more an
had died in tle: arms of glory, that the Dashons began to con
side whether or not the child he had left, and of whom the
had4herto taken no notice, was not after all their legitimate
gi child and legal heiress. They were not ignorant of the
general ,belief touching the marriage of its parents and the
flow as much wished the hypothesis  favorable to the marriage
true, as before they had wished an asserted it to be false
Pride alone stood in the way of the truth being ascertained-a
double pride, the pride of the Dashons, and the pride of Ro-
marin. The pride of wealth, which had an immense benefit to
confer, stooped first. Old Cornelius Roosevelt Pashon-a kind
of Yankee Knickerbocker, Dutch on the mother's side of N
England descent on the father's-went in his carriage  call o
8

I68

ROSEMARY.

r   _            ,   _    ,  i
-         ,  ,  .
'-
-                               '  . ,

Y y
t
_                       yJa4
.          .
.L
r


THE GRANDPARENTS.

Romarin, the French teacher. Romarin divined the object of
the visit, and received the grandfather of Rosemary with cahn
politeness.
My son is dead," said Roosevelt Tashon, icily.
" You have my best sympathies, Monsieur," replied Romarin.
There is a child," pursued the rich burgess, his voice trem-
bling, and also the hand .which rested on a goll-headed cane.
" She is ten years obl !" said the poor ex-officer, with an ac-
cent which we might call theatric, and which was meant to
&amp;craser the other grandpere; as who should say-' Why have
you never asked for her before ?"
" What--- is she called ?" asked Mr. Dashon, somewhat
faintly.
"I call her Rose Marie de Romarin," replied the father of
Th6tese, sschemrent (as he afterwvards said.)
"Was that her mother's name 3" inquired Mr. Dashon, in a
gentle voice.
Romarin stared, as if at the insolence of this question.
"The child is named after her maternal grandmother," he
replied at last, "Rose Marie de Floreal, daughter of the feu
Marquis de Floreal, of G uadaloupe, and my beloved wife, whose
loss I cease not to deplore."
"I knew M. de Floreal slightly," said Mr. Dashon, with cour-
tesy. "He lost his West-India property in an earthquake or
something, I recollect: it was a very singular case. I never
knew-what became of his family."
"They all married very honest men, though none of them
rich," said Romarin, cynically.
"Your wife left you only one child, I think ?" sai Mr.
Dashon.
"But one !" replied Romarin, with a terrible pathos.
" I also have lost an only son," said Mr. Dashon, with a mix-
ture of irritation and sympathy.-
"Who has died, Monsieur, on the field of glory !" responded
the old militaire, traighteping himself up. "My daughter-
mafine-has died covered with shame, her reputation ruined by
you and yours !"
There was a silence.

"Let bygones be bygones," said Cornelius Roosevelt Dashon
at last. "The past cannot be undone; it is tragical for us both.
This child, M. Romarin-it is of her that I would speak. She
is all my son has left behind him. I have heard, though I never
till now was disposed or able to believe, that Varick was mar-
ried to your daughter. If that were really the case, I would
acknowledge the little girl, and make her my heir :-in any
case---"
"Say no more !" cried Romarin, sternly interrupting his
visitor. "In any case, I do not part with my grandchild. I
have always acknowledged her as mine, though in the eyes of
the world, it was the acknowledgment of a daughter's dishonor.
My blood runs not in the veins of any other living creature."
"Nor mine," said Roosevelt Dashon.
"I took her from the bosom of my dying child," said Romarin.
"She has grown up ever since upon my knee."
"I have had no message; no pledge, of my son since her
birth," said Dashon, "till his coffin crossed my threshold."
"You desire to know if she is legitimate," pursued Romarin,
hotly. That is my secret a moi, monsieur ! Yes, mine ! When
I die, you shall know it, if you survive me ; and in that case the
child is yours."
"This is well; monsieur," said Roosevelt Dashon, white as a
sheet. "But the law has something also to say on these points.
Your testimony can be required by a court, you will find ; and
the question of guardianship will equally be determined by the
tribunals. I have the honor to wish you good morning."
The two grandfathers parted. The conduct of Romarin may
appear a little singular at first sight, but a little knowledge of
human nature will cause our surprise at it to cease. If Rose-
mary was illegitimate, he did not wish to own it to the haughty
and wealthy father of Varick Dashon; if, on the contrary, she
was legitimate, a certain pride made him say tpat the repara-
tion offered came too late. Moreover, he feared that in the next
place a claim might be set up to her custody.
"While they hoped that their son might yet return and make
ome grand alliance," said Romarin, "little did they care about
y poor Rose Marie ; but now that he is dead, they discover

170

ROSEMARY.

'~~1

171


172                    ROSEMARY.
my treasure, and would deprive me of it, to solace their selfish
ambition."
It seemed incredible to these grand people that their wishes in
regard to the child of their lost son should not be gratified.
They considered that they were the injured parties in the
calamity which had befallen both families.  Had this young
woman not ensnared their son, he would still remain to them.
Mrs. Roosevelt Dashon resolved to try her eloquence on Ro-
marin, to convince him of his tort. They met for the first time
in more than thirty years. A still more elegant carriage than
that of Mr. Dashon, drew up at Romarin's humble gate. A lady
still handsome, tall, with sweeping black train, and long black
veil advanced up the little gravelled walk, and was admitted to
the low parlor. M. Romarin received her standing. Her hair
was prematurely white, her pale face was printed with the crow
feet yet he recognized her. And Isabel Varick knew, not
without emotion, the classic features of her handsome music
teacher, become more. strongly marked with years, but still
eminently noble, with a fire still in the eye, and beauty in the
profuse curl of the now silver hair. They were alike in tat
ect where once they had differed: for when Romarin's locks
wee black as night, Isabel Varick's were of the softest auburn.
"Louis !" she said.
" Isabel !" said Romarin."
-I have come to see you again, and our grandchild," said
Mrs. Dashon, always speaking in French.
CBe seated, madame.-you shall see her," said Romarin, con-
ducting her to the plain hair sofa.
The little girl was sent for and came. It was a d'ark-eyed
angel in short black bombazine frock and pantalets. Her black
hair fell in ringlets beneath her waist: for it had never been cut.
" Oh, Louis !" exclaimed Mrs. Roosevelt----" she is the image
of my Varick !"
".She resembles strongly father and mother," said Romarin.
"How strange, Louis," said Mrs. Dashon, " that your blood
fows in the veins of my only living descendant, and mine in
Thi was the way to take Romarin. In fact, he was moved

THE GRANDPARENTS.
much more moved than Mrs. R D
what she said, could not have said it. who, had she really felt
her the appropriate, the telling se.t Femand t ac ' gedto
for acting enabled her to say it well.t marin was  genhus
her dupe, but his vanity was soothe,  omar  was not wholly
of the brave Frangais after all. ,the heart
"Tell me truly, Louis," pursued M
soft cures of the wodrnMoe        rs. Dashon, caressing the
sof culsof wondering Rosemary, whose browshhate.
derly kissed--" tell me truly, did w          she had ten-
as well as our Own'   asyourwd injure so much your child
as wel asour  w Was your daughter Varick's very wie
Not that it makes any difference in ougter haris vh wife
le savez bien."                our love for his child--vows
"What good would it do you to kn
the proof of the fact ?" demanded Row the fact, if you had not
madame, that you wiltk    ywRdomarmn. - How do I know,
madme tatyo will take my word for the honor of my hld'
"But I suppose that you have   fs, eplied of y child  "
"None. The parties are dead   ,    eied are dad,
wilfully silent."he witnesses are dead-or
"But the bishop ?" inquired Mrs. Roosevelt.
"No one knows better than you why th
sisted on th~e-secresy'ofwhey atose young persons in.
sised n he ecesy of the late monseigneur," said Romann
S"I know that the bishop has been ded s a R   rin.
marry them, then ?"dsme years- He did
"Madame !" said Romarin, rising. "Taim-      d
. I have told you alr~eady.Bttat'  oThat is implied in what
I hve ol yo aleay. But that is not enough. Not enough
for my child's honor, He may have married them whenoshe
Was already a mother. If that were so, I could e  eashe
prove that she was already a wife when His rcou more easily
ed that ceremony there. But since I h s Grandeur perform..,
you shall know the rest. My child w a  toly      much,
your son, first in secret by a valid contract ore marredsto
subsequently with a religious ceremony beract before witnesses,
mime, of the Catholic Church, but at the momet ahbnshp
knelt for the nuptial benediction, she was still a virgin, unse
by any indiscretion--save one, which did no toa  heunsullied
integrity. This is more, not than the bishop knew, but moe
than he could telgif he W  -      I       new, but more
her husband, your son, mada, after her dadt  Inthe lips o
-    ,      er eat, . -  ave never


174                    ROSEMARY.
spoken of it to any mortal since. The proof I do not possess-
but it exists, and I believe that the justice of God will make it
known one day: till then let the reputation of the innocent dead
remain under the cloud of suspicion."
Mrs. Roosevelt Dashon sighed. What was that proof which
existed but could not be produced ? Who were those witnesses
not dead but wilfully silent? why silent? and why wilfully so?1
She gazed on the enchanting face of the youthful Rosemary-too
youthful to comprehend this conversation. There were a thou-
sand reasons in that face why she should yield entire faith to all
that Romarin had said. The charge which rested on the memory
of Th6rese Romarin had elicited from those who knew her in child-
hood and maidenhood a striking and unanimous testimony to
her virtues. No one had ever suspected her of levity ; on the
contrary, all bore witness to her modesty, her discretion, her
innocence, her charity, her filial piety, and her regular devotion.
She was the last girl in the congregation to be suspected of a
false step, till her elopement, followed by the birth of a daugh-
ter, obscured (such is the force of a consistent good character)
rather than tarnished her reputation. All this Mrs. Roosevelt
Dashon had heard frequently and sometimes very energetically
expressed by Catholic ladies of her own circle ; and it tallied
with her father's story.
"Eh! bien, Louis," said she, "I am firmly convinced at pre-
sent that this is my legitimate grandchild, the only daughter of
my only son,.-arid born in wedlock, as much as my son was.
It s'agit--the question is-to restore her mother's reputation-
is it not ?"
Romarin bowed.
"What better means for that, Romarin, than for the parents
of Varick to acknowledge his child. We shall say -that we
have learned from what is equivalent to his dying declaration,
that he was lawfully married to Therese de Romarin. Who will
question it ?  Meanwhile, we can seek for further and more
positive proof of the marriage."
"You will do what pleases you, madam. I have not asked
for justice or reparation at your hands," said Romarin.

THE GRANDPARENTS'

"We shall guarantee the future of our granddaughter "
the lady, loftily.
"That will be only just to her, madam."
Mrs. Dashon had carried every point of th enemy's fo
but one. She now boldly assailed that.
"You will not be so unreasonable, Louis as to wish tomoo-
pohze"-with a slight emphasis--" the possession of the child
when we have so large a share in her, and w      e must
expect so much from us. It is time," added she, hastily, "to
think of her education-one suitable to a great he'rasl am
her nearest female relative-her only femnleaeiress--I am
these are claims which even you must allow."
"She will visit her grandparents of course," said Romarin,
his brow darkening.
"I will not urge the matter further at present-
stand each other perfectly, Louis !" cried Mrs. Roosevelt.
"AndlJOZ--you darling !"-addressing the astonished Rosemary
-- will you love your granlmamma ? Kiss me m  chi I"
You are not my grandnamnma !" cries Rosemary, starting
back.  " Voild ma grand' mere ' pointing to aryothful
portrait of Mrs. Romarin on the wall. "She is not so old as
you!"
Mrs. Dashon laughed frankly.
"I was as young as that, once, impertinence!  That '
grandlmamma Romarin,-do you understand, my dear child. I
am your grandmamma Dashon. Your name is Rose M      di
you say, Louis ?)-Rose MarieDashon.id
"0i, you tell fibs !" cried the child. "My name is Rose
Marie Romarin-is it not, grandpa ?"
" Romarin was the name of your dear mother m     hil,
said Mrs. Roosevelt; "but your father's name was Dashoid,
mine."bonlike
"That's another fib," said the child angrily. "      '
nan e was Trick-est e pas, grandpapa ?   Tous vous moquez
de mol, madame."
"No, I am not making fun of you, Rose," said Mrs. Dashon.
our papa's name was Varick Dashon, and he was my son
That makes you my grandchild---do you understand ?"

1 75


The child looked at Romarin, expecting a denial; but seeing
that her grandfather's face was grave, and that he neither
treated it as a jest, nor denied it; she broke away from her
grandmother, ran to him, threw her arms round his neck, buried
her face in his bosom, and burst into a passion of tears and
violent sobs. -
One divines the end of such scenes. The young cirl who
cries is sent away to tranquilize herself in private, and the vi-
sitor departs. Mrs. Dashon was on the whole satisfied with her
progress that day, but she resolved not to rest short of the
possession of Rosemary.
"You are a stranger now," Romarin observed, in a consola-
tory tone, but with evident satisfaction. "By and by she will
like you, when she gets accustomed to the idea of other rela-
tions than myself."
"It is an angel of beauty," said the grandmamma to herself,
"but spoiled by that vieux Louis. She has had no bringing up
at all, to be so extremely rude on such an occasion."
The old Swiss bone, Louise, looked down leaning over the
stair, as Mrs. Dashon swept out of the cottage-door.

4

CHAPTER II.
CB[ANG  OF DYNASTY
THE information which Mrs. RooseveltDashon
fully elicited from Rosemary's materel Dason had so skil.
ideas both of herself and her husb  vernal grandsire fixed the
ing child. It would not have muhi     rgr to that interest..
chil. I wold  ot avemuch mattered what defects of
person, character or education the little girl had betrayed; the
legal and blood relationship to themselves which made her t
their time  of  life  their sole possiblerlinealre res enade  her at
have rendered them indifferent to eey otprsentatirve, would
the instinct of. parental affectioi ch y  even conerin
grandparents than in'thech is even stronger inu
gradpaent5 tanin the parents themselves, centeringwol
upon this grandchild, and not actingith less veheng wholly
cause their claim uponit was disputed h less vehemence be-
with equal nearness of blood and a be y   roearlgparent,
and the. vantage-grudbf-etter right from early care,
andthevanagground of possession.  But besides alti h
little granddaujghter was a child  ion t   i   all this the
In the mean time the bpeomise
told all her friend t they began to talk freely. Mrs. Dashou
positive marriage  bth  ey ad discovered the existence of a
Posiive  arrae between their lamented Varick  n    h
daughter of Romarin.._..u  ndterlaetd      aik and the
odahter wmarined tonk would you believe it, that terrible
Just to spitepCorne wand  eep it a secret from us? and why?
us tosite  Crnelius and  me, because  we  weeO psdt yh
match, and to prevent our getting Pses were opposed to the
do you understand? Now he factpossession of the little girl
our son's marrying Miss de Romarin     we  not opposed to
too young to mnarry tthim      only that we thought him
too Yungta   y at the time Fortune was no object to us,
you understandgHer family     was unexceptionable; her
Rmte asaghe         of the fecu Afcrquis de Poelan
oarnhimself has -furigg s             e Foreal, and
That is ise  l oa a right to the de--do you undertand?-
rench nobility-but he is such a Repub-

176

ROSEMARY.


1?8

ROSEMARY.

lican, he won't use it. Why should we be opposed to such a
marriage as that on the part of our son  She seems to have
been an excellent girl, after all, and her virtue was spotless.
She would listen to nothing without the ring-do you under-
stand ?'-With a short, peculiar scornful laugh, whereby Madam
Dashon signified her appreciation of the perfidy and untrust-
worthiness of all men.-" She was quite right, eh ? Varick and
she went to the bishop together. The bishop was her father-
confessor, and as there is no council of Trent in New York
(they say), Monseigneur married them, to prevent their marrying
themselves, I suppose. Not even old Romarin knew anything
about it. Wasn't she a sly puss-that Mademoiselle Romarin ?"
.---With another short laugh.-" So after that the affair was
managed for them by an old bonne-a Swiss bonne.  Famous
ntrigantes all these bonnes.  Never knew one that was other-
wise. Elles ne sont faites que pour cela-it is all they are good
for ! So after a few months Madame foundlto her innocent sur-
prise that her secret could not be kept, and she ran away with
my son. The reason she did this was that she so much feared
her father's displeasure on account of her secret marriage, and
my son feared ours: for Roosevelt had told him that if he mar-
ried Miss Romarin he would never see him again ; in fact gave him
money on condition he would never see her again, or at least
not marry her. This was very wrong of Cornelius ; it was act-
ually tempting my son to act in an infamous manner ; so I don't
blame Richard much-and the girl, poor thing !-if she commit-
ted a fault she atoned for it with her life-she died in child-bed,
you know, and my son went to Europe. So, till he was killed,"
-Mrs. Dashon wept-very sincere tears-" after performing
prodigies of valor in fighting the Arabs, we never knew he was
really married. My poor dear boy was the soul of honor,
and the idea of havin;   broken  his word to his father
preyed upon him. Hencehe kept us in the dark about it for so
many years. No doubt he hoped to return full of glory and
:           confess it all. Providence ordered it otherwise."-And the old
lady lifted a devout glance to Heaven.
All Mrs. Dashon's five hundred dear friends, of both sexes,
understood it perfectly. They agreed with her also that she

CHANGE OF DYNASTY.

had a perfect title to the possession and education of her rand
daughter, and that it was very strange M. R o  hou  din-
pute it. On that point the ancient teacher proved obdurate, and
neither threats nor promises, neither flatter p re Pcuary
offers, would induce him to recede for a moment from his posi-
tion. He came index d, according to promise with  he li-
Rosemary, to return the visit of he' ran-pse, wth the lttle
adroit old soldier, fearing that some stratagn, parents; ut the
would be employed to detain the child, timed his visit when pr,
and Mrs. Dashon were both out taking a civ     Mr. so
was so indignant that he talked of legal  rie.  but after
advising w"ith  his lawyers, ocldd proceedings, but after
adisngwihhi l"  yr, concluded to abandon that idea as'
not likely to lead to any thing better than   haeea  as
expensive sclat. They told him that Roan   ighteboe n
law and equity was, under the circumstances better than his,
arid that it was a case for amicable negotiated er Th  is,
jealousy and self-love of both parties presented, however, such
formidable obtacles to a friendly adjustment of theverence,
that at the end of a whole year of disun'  ' se  difference,
shape of an irreconcilable breach, when the Providece which
determines the fdll of thrones wih  ovrlkh
o ons    mualt  erouainjj that of spar-
r  s, interfered to settle it, as if to prevent th sndal of these
old people, on the declining slope of their exise  qarreflthese
f the Possession of a descendat who would bence,quarrelling
them all.ysurvive
RomIarin was a fervent Bonapartist  He h
quaitance of Louis Napoleon when that  ad made the ac
York, and had formed a high opinion of his capacity  e
Prince himself, with his usual insight into chare cappci The
at once the devotion and the talent of Romarin and still moreiate
patan integrity which is so rare, and so invaln sto prieat
It was now the eventful 1848, and Louis N nasle to princes
in France, into which he had so boldl  apoen was once more
own~llof the over nmernt of Louis Phili-e arond he  nthe
ju etjog upon that career, then so dubious, wich he si
anttef   n such a height of power and administrative glory;
d the future Emperor, then simply a Representative and candi-
date for the Presidency of the Republic, wrote a letter tor

179


180

ROSEMARY.

CHANGE 0f DYNASTY.

rin, entreating him to return to France and give him the benefit
of his able services and fidelity a routes spreuwes. This was too
much for an ancient officer of the grand army, and a beneficiary
of Napoleon I. Romarin resolved to accept, or as he said, to
obey the prince's invitation, and he' at first thought to take his
grandchild with him, but on reflection, in the great uncertainty
of political events and of the prince's fortunes, this seemed so
unjust to Rose Marie herself, that he adopted the a ise resolution
of making at this moment a graceful concession to the Dashons.
In a month after the receipt of the prince's letter, Romarin
bade adieu to his weeping granddaughter on the deck of the
Havre steamer, and she was borne away from the vessel's side
in the carriage of her grandmamma Dashon, as inconsolable as
a nature half French would permit her to be, and as demon-
strative of her grief as an education wholly French would neces-
sitate her being, at the age of eleven. Grandpapa and grand-
mamma Dashon, whom natural anxiety as well as their high sense
of decorum had induced to visit the steamer in person and
receive their grandchild from the hands of their departing rival,
endeavored to console her: but this angel in short skirts plainly
showed that she inherited the quick passions which had got her
parents and grandparents into scrapes, she flung away from
their caresses with temper, and burying her face in the bosom
of her dear bonne, sobbed without restraint.
Scarce was this pathetic ebullition of temper well over, before
it was necessary to stop at Romarin's former cottage. Mrs.
Dashon had requested permission to fit out her granddaughter
on occasion of her going out of mourning, but this offer had
been respectfully declined by Romarin. The sale of' his pianO'
and noble c action of music had produced a sum sufficient to
provide for this slight expense, and still leave enough for his
passage to France and support during the first year: the rest
he trusted to that bonapartist Providence known as the star of
Napoleon. He might have had other means, had it not inter-
ested his pride not to send Rose Marie portionless to her proud
paternal relatives. Scanty as Romarin's income had been, French
economy had enabled him to lay up something every year, and
the cottage ii which he lived, with the little garden attached to

it, situated in a district poor enough when
now rapidly filling with magnificent rehepurchased it, but
and he had settled it on his granddauheinche, ha s own
tees. It had been let to a Geran dahe  the hands of trus-
bong'ht the humble furniture; it onl mremaner, to hkad
Rosemary's trunk, her grandmother yRomaine' potake a
and some precious souvenirs and trmarsns portrait, her goat
express wagon was on hand to receive them, candhn  An
passionate burst in bidding aeeeiete, an then another
Sg farewell to the humble home for
ever.
And now the little heiress stood for the   -  i
before her paternal grandsi's     h second time in her life
befre er atenalgradire's door, and on this occasion she
was to enter and make it her home.
The rich in America are fond of ostent-  -  -
dress, equipage ; sotyar           tation in their dwellings,
dres, qupag;  o they are everywhere; pernlaps herety
have more excuse, no other careerbeing ope ap  theoy
'   institutions being unfavorable tothat  open to them, and our
of families which contributes so powerf  t e   slidit
of stats   ov~i               oeflyotemrlsldt
tates. However, one effect is that such another city soNet
York architecturally, exists not in the world, when you consider
the vast number of beautiful private w    o  The sir
ostentation causes the vne    ae   mansions." The-spirit of
ostntaioncaues avenues or long streets of the metropolis
to be chosen for the finest of theseatho  the metrpes
are more agreeable in or clth ough the cross streets
aemragreabein our climate, as in winter they receive the
noon-day sun, either in front or rear, a  inter the  ufail-
ing southern breeze. M.Ds     er and in summer the unfail..
ing outernbreze. Mr. Dashon was one of the few richme
who thought of such matters, and hs ousoe     ed bohmen
- advantages. It rntdon       ,a    his house combined both
adanage sIt fronted ona noble avenue, and on the north
ran a fine street, while the owner's immense wealth enabled him
to preserve on the south a grden   ihwt'shubr          n
flowers, and extending t tagardn rich within shrubbery and
flwes, androwtenian to the very walls of a fine gothic church
whose brown tower and buttresses susand-amsso     repr
now already glowing with  ursesustamied' a mass of creepers
flwaray glwng wt autumnal tints. A lofty iron aln
was all that separated this charming doman fyro trailing
gaze, but in front of the woarig dmamn from the public
gouaz, th  front of whole ran a grassy and shrubberied
courtyard, with a low massive rail. Thethselgbe house itself was, one
of those elegant Palladian structures in brown stone w
that district is now so thickly sprinkled, and its literal fronts(if

181


CHANGE OF DYNASTY.

183

we may use the expression) were th e most imposing, as they
included a longer line of fine windows, with a small extension,
and the lofty stone screen of the back-court, and the architec-
tural entrance of the stables. As the little Rosemary ascended
the easy steps to the open vestibule, she was sensible, young as
she was, of a mighty transformation in her fortunes. She was,
then, the sole descendant and heiress of this merchant prince !
A footman in livery had stood behind the coach ; another
threw open the glass door of the vestibule. Before her stretched
a marble hall, with a grand painted staircase leaving it on one side,
springing aloft in great sweeps, but not breaking the vista, and
at the further extremity an arch, and beyond that another, open-
ing into a conservatory where a fountain played among bright
flowers and birds in cages.
On her right, as she entered, a door was open into a inrary,
all lined with dark rich book-cases,,and looking to the north.
On her left another, which her grandparents entered. It wag a
sumptuous recoptiog room, with a large window on the Avenue
and another on the garden. The draperies were dark blue; 'in
the avenue window stood a magnificent bronze; the garden win-
dow had a stone balcony : the mantelpiece was opposite the
avenue window, and over it was a huge mirror, in which you
could see the persons passing on the opposite side of the street.
An arched door, tall and narrow, in the recess, conducted into
the next room, whither Rosemary's grandparents led on. It
was'onger, had one large Venetian window of three lights look-
ing upon the garden, with a balcony and a flight of stone steps.
In a deep recess at one end an oaken buffet or sideboard, pro-
fusely carved ; on the walls pictures of game and numerous
engravings; an. oaken wainscot all round, and a carved fire-
place; a ceiling in compartments of gold and purple ; a gilt
chandelier dependent, beneath which a table was set for dinner.
The draperies were purple.
"We dine at five," said grandmamma, and passed on to the
next room, by a door exactly corresponding to that by which
they had entered. There was a sort of arched passage, indeed,
with dark-paneled and fragrant cedar closets on either hand;
and the room was a bedroom, grandmamma's own bedroom;

and here Louise took off Rosemary's Leghorn flat and
mantle. This was the exact arrangement (but Rose Marie did
iot know that till her grandmamnma said so) of a great mansion
in Europe--a suite of living apartments terminating ia  mansion
bre a voucher, all in the rez-de-chaussse, or basement m  his
room had two windows uo     h   adn     smn floor. This
roomhadtwowinowsupon the garden, the draperies dark-
green velvet, relieved with lace; a wood fire blazed ine  r
ney on tall brass andirons wt        iebae      the chim-
n fo ta  fras ai   onwith a tall green fender before it,
and for the first time the young girl was reminded of home, as
Romarin always burned wood on his cottage hearth. All three
of these rooms would have appeared rather soth. Aro  thr
dark and rich draperieshdpe erte sombre from their
dar an  rch  raerishad not the sun streamed brightly in
at every window between the parted curtains.  brigyin
straight on, without giving Rosemary time to o
things entirely new to herad imr   im  observe many
sity, g rdmamm  topd and which piqued her childish curio-
sity, grandmamma opened another door in a strain ewt
all the preceding, n  o!ant o            straight line with
allthepreedigand lo. another room a little more than half
the size of the last, with one large bow-window veroktng hf
garden like the rest. I call it a bow-window   iter asknt
one; it was a Maltese window  la  wwno, b pt it was not
n ; i was  te window; that is, a deep rectangular recess
not so high as the ceiling, and so contrived that itcudben
tirely closed by shutters iiocotiedta it could be en-
tirely clsdb     htes sliding up and down, or partially
opened in any direction ; and even when en  ,    pti al y
room was still perfectly lighted from the wall over the recess
which itself was elegantly draped with rose silk an  he; rnd
right beneath these curtains stood a toilet table of ebony
adorned with ivory carvings in full relief  arly inlaid;
and against the wall a bed in the same style, and further on an
armoire or ancient clothes-press to match, withd miro in the
doors; in one corner a rie-deu or kneeling dsk in the same
style, with an ivory crucifix uepon it, and iges of Our Lady
and St. Joseph--hundreds ofyasodtmagfes of Our Lady
andSt.Josph~und.&amp;sof years old at least, you will say!
Not a bit of it! Nothing was old but the  at, Granlmama
Dashon had it all made last year in  Pa te.  as x
tremely quaint and beautiful; for to carry it outthe walls were
wainscotted -,in oak---real oak-carr i  ou,  lls were
witharrs; ad t  il   carved m Belgium, and hung
with arras ; arid t'' gas-fixtures, shaped lk  niu  rses
Were of silver..I,..te  The flur, whad like antiquecressets,
- - 'Th  foor, which was parqueted, was co.

182

ROSEMARY'


CHANGE OF DYNASTY.

vered in part with a rich Persian carpet. The curtains of the
bed and window, being of rose velvet, were cut in formal medi-
eval points. But nothing could be snugger than that Maltese
window, half shut in by curtains, a richly cushioned seat run-
ning all round it, the sunlight pouring in at one or two open
panels, a view of the garden and Avenue through another ;
nothing more picturesque and quiet than the little "chamber
within, with its one high light, and its antique furniture. We
hope the reader wil bear in mind this description; for here will
occur the catastrophe of this story.
-" I had this chamber fitted up merely as a curious show, to
amuse my lady friends when they called," said grandmamma
Dashon ; "but now I shall put it to use : it is your room, my
dear,-next to mine, you see-I like to have my little girl
under my own eye, do you understand ?-Still, you can get out,
if you like, without passing through my room. See here,
petite! This door, you observe, leads into the bath-room, and
this"-passing on through another arched passage with cedar
closets,-" into the small conservatory."
In fact, following her grandmother, Rosemary saw the same
fountain playing among the brilliant flowers and birds in cages,
which had caught her eye as the termination of the vista of the
hall. The birds were singing merrily, and in the marble basin
of the fountain gold and silver fish were swimming. A beau-
tiful tawney hound of choice breed sprang forward and leaped
up on the little girl's dress.-" Oh, how pretty !" she exclaimed.
-" Perhaps you would like to see the house ?" inquired
grandmamma.
"If that does not derange you at all, madame ?" replied the
young lady, still in French.
They went into the hail, the end of which was fitted up as an
anteroom. "Which is the communication, you observe, be-
tween your grandpapa's room and mine," said grandmamma,
"and if you remove the cushions from that turkish divan, you
will discover a marble bath, with hot and cold water."
In the hall they were joined by grandpapa. His cane clat-
tered over the marble floor: for he was lame with gout. They
mount the grand staircase very leisurely on his account. Rose-

mary thought of grandpapa Romarin who, tho     *
eighth year, could mount a stair like a young man  "Wealth "
thought she, "does not keep people from growing old: this
rich grandpapa of mine is as stiff in his jointsas ro   old: Lau
rent who asks alms at the church door."
The stair was stately with bust and statue
abundant light showers down;   d h    e, on which the soft
columned and paved with marble. One enters an tecpper,
which, like the one below, looks into a conservatory but a much
more stately one, filled, with tall rare plants, and the sun ahmuch
brightly in among e thehe. sunneshmnmg
brigtly inrom  t  . On one side of the antechamber is the
"state bedroom."
" What is a state bedroom ?" asked Roe
fine rooms below have nothing  smar ; for all the
"It is one that is used only for very illus
the President, if he shudnyfrvr      llstrious guests, like
ersin            shouldvisit us, or for a bride--do you
understand ?"                                        3
"Or Prince Louis ?" said the little girl
Exactly, my dear : but as no such visitor is very likely to
come, I have reserved this apartment in my own mind for another
occasion,"
"What is that, grandmamma ?"
"Your wedding,.my little girl."
The mantelpiece of this room had a singular
winged fig-usrrom               adn  smular design. Two
Winedfgures in white marble supported the slab, which was
festooned with flowers-..on one side Hymen; o  h  tewt
torch reversed, thw esnonAge  f   ton the other, with
torh rl~esedtheGenusor Angel of Death ! But what was
really very curious was that in the centre ont       s
in antique raised letters, was the  rd  O a smooth scroll,
"What is that, grandmamma? " asked the       -
"Josemcary is for remembrance," said the rd   r.
the design signifies 'Life and Death.'"
Next grandmamma called her attention
fair-haired, handsome young man in a fireman's dress ; in the
backgrou a house on fire and a very long ladder placed against ,
one of the upper windows.
--" Do you know who that is, Rose Marie 
"No, madam,"

184

w

nosmAnr."

185


186ROSEMARY.
{n     "That is my son!" said the old lady, with a quivering lip.
Grandpnpa's hand trembled resting on his cane.
The little French girl dropped on one knee and clasped her
hands.
-" Ah! it is my papa!"
After looking at it earnestly, with a great deal of sentiment,
for a few minutes, she rose quickly and threw herself first in
the arms of one grandparent, then of the other: it was quite a
scene.
"I will have your -mother's portrait framed to match this,
and hung in the recess on the other side," said grandmamma.
Recrossing the antechamber they advanced into a cabinet-
that is, a saloon of moderate dimensions sparkling with objects of
vertu ; it has two windows on the garden and one into the con-
servatory, and the last is in a range with the line of arched
doors of the suite, so that you see the whole length of the state
apartments on that side ; but there are no folding-doors-" they
are vulgar !" says grandmamma. This room is paneled in grey
satin in borders of blue and gold. Next is the "winter draw-
ing-room ;"-a larger room which corresponds to the dining-
room below, all crimson and gold, with a magnificent oriel win-
dow, stone mullioned; the walls hung with numerous pictures.
Here was a splendid full-length of Cornelius Roosevelt Dashon,
Esquire, in his library, in the attitude of Scott at Abbotsford, read-
ing the courier and Enquirer Shipping List; the paper turned
over so as to display the word TEAS in large capitals at the head
of an advertisement; and just below, a steamship ; i'ndidating the
great branches of trade with which his name was connected: on
the table a map of his real estate. Ancient India merchant (the
globe at his feet showed the coast of China uppermost), chief
owner of a line of ocean steamers, great landed proprietors
And now grandpapa, who seemed greatly comforted since he
had surmounted the difficulty of the stair, and also by the embrace
of his grandchild, led on gaily to the last apartment of the suite
-the salon or" great drawing-room." It extended across the en-
tire front of the house and had two ranges of windows; over the
chief entrance was a music gallery, accessible from the story
above. Rosemary looked up in wonder to the lofty, coved and

CHANGE OF DYNASTY.
painted ceiling, whence depended a chandelier where knights and
ames with horse and hound chased the deer in a forest of frosted
silver; then gland at the walls glowing with arabesques and
 withnumerous mirrors reflecting t
majesty and loveliness of sculpture, or down at the vast ir
quetted floor laid but not covered with Turkey rugs andvast par-
nd lading the eye to various brilliant objects--vases taller t
herself, cabinets, luxurious seats of regal splendor. On the
whole the effect was simple though magnificent And th
Rosemary, fresh from  Romarin's humble cottae--was she
indeed, as she had been told again and again b
heiress of all this ?ainy3Louise, the
Perhaps it was not the wisest thing in the world f
rich grandparents to show this child all these splendors these
first moment. It would have been better to treat her likey ty
child that she was-under twelve years--a half-pric  e
whose cf treat had been a three cent ride in an omnibus
would learn her new position soon enough. Nor was it the
surest way to her heart.  The vulgar pride of we ilth was
brought rather too suddenly to bear upon a pride perhaps not
Creator but more honored by men.
--" what think you of this, Rose ?" asked her grandfat
whne e young lady had sufficiently, as he thought, sated er
wonder.,                                            he
That young person stood in the middle of the grand so
time with one little foot a la militaire, her black r
es fling  disordered grace to the waist of her simple i
dress.                                   hrsml      ht
-" It is very well, monsieur," said she at length, with grave
osi sacy: "'but my grandpapa is going to see the Tuileries
v'ous savez !"                               aTieis
t Ah .always 'my grandpapa!' You must learn, my child
to saey'grandpapa Romarin :' you have two grandpapas-do
you understand ?"                         rnpa-d
"Yes," responded the child quickly- "There are rand
a     apas--I lnow it well. That is my French grand-
nan;-thisn "     ankee grandpapa  That is a poor brave
--here Rosemary held her tongue.

N; h


ROSEMARY.
"And what is *'this ''" demanded Mrs. Dashon, half vexed,
half amused. "Something very complimentary, Roosevelt, no
doubt."
"This is the way old Romarin has taught the little French
monkey to regard us !" said grandpapa Dashon. "Well, what
is your-Yankee grandpapa ? pray finish, child."
" My Yankee grandpapa is .a rich gentleman," replied Rose-
mary, grievously offended to hear her French grandpapa styled
old Romarin. "I don't like rich gentlemen--I like poor brave
men !"
"Take your young lady to her room, and dress her for
dinner," said Mrs. Dashon to Louise. "It is truly an enfant
terrible. Ha! ha! But we must put up with this impertinence
at first, till ma-de-moi-selle finds out on which side her bread is
buttered-eh t She has been taught this (the pert little par.
rot!) by that dreadful vieux Louis !-do you understand '
"The old boy take him!" said grandpapa Dashon, piously.
"Amen !" was the charitable response of grandmamma Da-
shon. "That is, I wish he were in Heaven !"
As Louis Napoleon had got the man, some might think that
Mr. Dashon need wish poor Romarin no worse ; but as he was
gone to Paris,a Frenchman might think that Mrs. Dashon could
wish him nothing better.

CHAPTER III.
NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.
IT will be necessary to say something about the education of
our little heroine previous to this date. One easily understands
that it was economy joined to the love of independence, a gar-
den and fresh air, that first induced Romarin to rent the cottage
in the purchase of which he afterwards invested his slender
savings. The household consisted of himself, the child, the
bonne, and a nanny-goat, which fed in the court-yard, and
browsed on the grassy hill near by. The hill was still crowned
with a grove, and the old rock -cropped out on the declivity.
Before Romarin left, a street had been carried right through the
hill: at the present date the spot is a brown-stone paradise.
The baby throve on the milk of the nanny-goat, who in time
became the little girl's chief companion and playmate. The
goat was a wonderful climber, and Rosemary became a wonder-
ful climber too. Nanette and the child would mount from a
low bench to the roof of an ash-house; thence to that of the
kitchen, then to the very ridge of the cottage, and return by
the window of the attic. This might be hereditary propensity,
for they say her father had often performed the same feat. It
was vain to scold and punish, where Nanette went Rose Marie
feared not to go, and vice ,versa. The girl indeed could climb
where the goat could not--into the cherry-trees, for instance.--
"Pity she's not a boy !" grandpapa would say: "how that
would scale a rampart !"-And what with climbing and drinking
goat's milk and devouring fresh vegetables and ripe fruits and
occasionally a cotelette or bnfstek, the little girl grew up fair,
strong and active, with a full plump chest, a lithe and supple
figure and limbs of vigorous symmetry.
Her sole teacher was her grandpapa, and the education he

'        .
z .

Lys
) r
C=  Iii    .r-


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

. gave her was excellent, although it would in some respects have
been more suitable for a loy. Yet much that was proper for
her sex came quite naturally under the tuition of that accom-
plished Romarin. At seven Rose Marie could dance like a
sylphide, and already had learned to spread he;nfantile digits
over the octaves of her grandpapa's piano. She evinced great
talent for music, which she had great opportunities to cultivate.
Romarin attended all the fine concerts, and as soon as she was
old enough to sit out the performance, Rosemary accompanied
him. The society at the cottage was wholly of an artistic kind.
Then every Sunday the grandpapa and little granddaughter
heard High Mass in the French Church, where Romarin always
frequented the choir and sometimes played the organ. It is
superfluous to observe that Rosemary was mistress of French,
as no other language was spoken in the family. English she
spoke with a perfectly pure accent, although she had learned it
entirely from her grandfather, whose foreign accent was very
marked : it is a marvel where children pick up the native accent
o' the country they live in. From some of her grandfather's
musical friends she had early acquired the Ital an pronunciation
and a variety of conversational phrases, while others taught her
to babble in German and sing German songs. Thus the little
girl had such mastery as such a child can attain of the principal
modern languages. Grammar, history, geography she learned
in the manuals of the military schools of France; she could
draw maps beautifully, and was skilled in perspective; she
could sketch a little, paint flowers, hem her own pocket-hand-
kerchiefs, and darn her own and her grandpa's stockings, cook
a cutlet, make coffee and bake bread. She had also read the
campaigns of Napoleon with maps, and knew the hero's career
by heart, she could describe the day of Austerlitz, and explain
the defeat of Waterloo. But all these were comparative
recreations: the study on which her grandfather insisted was
mathematics. . At ten Rosemary was mistre s of arithmetic ;'at
eleven she could evolve a binomial ; at eleven and six months
could demonstrate the 47th Proposition of the First Book.
It was with deep regret that Romarin saw himself obliged to
interrupt this well-considered education: but he knew that in

Paris he should not be able to carry it on in person,'tnd mas-
ters he could not afford. However, he merely stipulated with
the Dashons, that if they sent the child to school, it should be
to the Sacred Heart. As Romarin was a perfect philosophe and
had somewhat neglected Rosemary's religious education, it is
likely that national prejudice had more to do with this choice
than anxiety for her faith. It was Louise who taught the child
her prayers and catechism, took her to confession at eight, and
saw that she made her first communion at ten years. Louise
was as far aspossible from being an intrigante, as grandmanma
Dashon insinuated; she was the most honest and simple-hearted
woman in the world; in her neat shawl and embroidered white
muslin cap, with broad ruffles beautifully quilled, framing her
high-colored round face, she never missed early Mass and sel-
dom Vespers, to which she took Rosemary. It was she who
taught the child, perhaps in plainer language than a high-bred
mother would, but all the more wholesome for that, her moral
duties; and if she sometimes flattered her vanity; or stimulated
her ambition, and indulged her self-will, you could hardly ex-
pect more from a simple bonnie.
Except that she always missed and lamented her French
grandpapa, whom a Yankee grandpapa and granrimamma both
could not for a long time replace, the child soon discovered the
immense superiority of her new home in a child's point of view.
Grandpapa Dashon's garden was not only three times as large as
grandpapa Romarin's, but infinitely more agreeable as a play
ground, to say nothing of its brilliant flowers and delicious
fruits. The streets were incomparably jleasanter, and she had
now companions of her own age with whom she was permitted
1 to associate. - They trundled their hoops on the broad sidewalks,
and sometimes in the neighboring square; and even Nanette
found a rival in a mooley cow, sweet-breath'd and full-uddered,
which while the green grass lasted in the court-yard was allowed
to crop it night and morning.
In respect o.f climbing there were glorious diversions in store
for her. The court de derriere, as Madam Dashon in her French
affectation called what common people term the back-yard, was
four or five feet below the level of the street and garden, and

190

ROSEMARY.

191


192

ROSEMARY.

paved. From this paved court to the garden there was neces-
sarily a flight of steps. Here a wide and lofty arch let in the
sun, and its shadow ever slept upon the pavement. On the brown
stone wall above, connecting the extension with the stables,
there were huge pots of cactus over the pillars. Outside the
stables a narrow. winding stair of stone led to the flat stable
roof. Vases filled with cactus crowned its massive balustrade,
It was the delight of Rosemary and her companion to pass per-
petually up and down these flights of steps; all young animals
do the same; when she was in the court she wanted to get upon
the roof; when on the roof, she immediately desired to descend
into the court, then to ascend to the garden, and so back. But
one bold enterprise long tempted her ; it was to cross on the top
of the high wall from the root of the stables to that of the ex.
tension : there was no obstacle but the dizzy height and the
pots of cactus, one over each pillar of the arch, that guarded
the access. On one side were the steps leading up to the gar-
dens, on the other, twenty-five feet below the pavement of the
kitchen court. One day she attempted it; they passed success-
fully the great vase of cactus. Now the child is safe if she
keeps her head-if she lose it for an instant, that fluttering
white frock will cover a lifeless form on the pavement down
there, and the black ringlets will be matted with blood on the
stone steps. They pass safely, but how to return ?-the child
and the goat can hardly turn. They are at no loss. Over the
extension is the conservatory, which has a sash open. To
clamber in here was the grand object. The playmates enter
the antechamber of the grand suite, and then the state bed-
room; Nanette goes first, and Rosemary, laughing'and chatter-
ing French, follows her four-footed and silent friend. The little
hoofs move noiselessly over the thick carpet. Quelle chambre !-
c'est pour mes noces, entendez vous 7-for Nanette understands
French-at least not a word of English.-" And see the portrait
of my mother among all these fine things ! QueZ cadre magnmi-
fique !"-This is the real object of the Alpine achievement-to
show Nanette the maternal picture in its new frame--the daugh-
ter of Romarin overlooking all this regal luxury ! Very curious
to watch that white frock, and snow-white coat glancing about

NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

this princely chamber (reserved, as R
bridal), now gleaming in a cozy corner, fow reflected in the
tall psyche glass where Nanette is at first disposed to butt her
double. Then they enter the bathsroom.t  itled hoo  tt her
over the marble flooradR      -oo-the little hoofs clatter
capia tie able fla wand Rosemary bethinks her that it is a
capital time and place to wash the long-hard1 ot il atb
white indeed as snow. Al         og-haired coat till it be
whit ineedas now  Al went famously till the gipsey had
the brilliant idea to try the effect of the howr  the gesy  of
Nanette, and it so happened that she turned on the hot pipe
only: in the twinkling of an eye Nanette was out of the bath,
dashed like a crazy goat throughathe silwamber, gve a
furious butt at the psyche in passing that sn chamber, gave a
a thousand pieces, and flying through h  indoor in
overturned grandmamma whom      g he noise in  door, harly
tracted, and went skipping dnhn      in the bath had at-.
ct      an ten    p   g down the great staircase like a
chamois on the Alps.
" Ah ! a thousand pardons, grandmamma !"  -et       -
offender, dismayed but unabashed.   J p.cries the prmcipal
had no idea the shower would frighten Nanetteswho could sup-
pose that she would be such a fool as that !"t o    d
"Is that the way the little monkey has been brought up !,was
grandmamma's comment. "Ah, that          -      uieuxght up an e
French teacher no doubt, but he knew no more about bringing
up a young woman tlhan I do about taking a oreu Tere
Was his own daughter ! But the least said the soonest mended in
these cases. A mirror is more easil mende thane t    i   .
even though broken bmstke'A      - e   than a reputation,
evntog rkn by mistake. A girl almost twelve climbing ascn tr idwwt
into a second story WindoWv with a guaymostSa thev lming
was never heard of in our family befnanny-goat ! Such a thing
To divert the young heiress from these perilous, unbcomig
and in the end costly experiments, a pony was procured for
her--a new, livelier and more exciting pey that threw  for
Completely into the shade.Acm       p   tathe Nanette
comleelyino he  hae.Accompanied by a groom or by
grandpapa himself, Rosemary explored all tha roo o   be
island. Impossible bu  h sesol         the rides on the
isandb gbut that she should attach herself to such
affectionate anid generous hri  oln  grandparents, wove  ihec
other in spoiling her. When grandpapa had won her heach
the gift of a pony, grandma ma rivals him with a watch. It
9

1gg


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

was truly a new life for the grandchild of Romarin to go shop-
ping withgrandmamma Dashon. A magnificent coach conveys
them to their destination; a footman opens the door when they
alight; obsequious shopmen think nothing trouble that gratifies
a whim of either. Grandmuamma was dressy and expensive: it
was her taste, and she could afford it. Rosemary's simple white
(she had never worn any thing else till she put on mourning)
was soon exchanged for radiaut silks and velvets of every hue.
A butterfly is beautiful fluttering from flower to flower; so is a
little girl in a gay dress on the broad flagging, or the high stone
steps of that superb street, where the little girls play ed and
flitted from house to house, and inspected each other's costumes
with premature womanly airs, in the afternoons, while the soft
bright days of autumn permitted.
But the year grew dark, and the days both cold and brief;
a fortnight at grandpa's farm in Westchester abbreviated the
autumn ; the Christmas holidays came, after which it was proposed
that the little lady should resume her studies; and in the mean-
time Mr. Dashon proposed to give a large family dinner party,
in order to introduce his grandchild more formally to her rela-
tives, some of whom were extremely chary of their courtesies
to the new-found heiress. Among this class of Mr..Dashon's
connections the marriage of Rosemary's parents still found
skeptics. One family even affected to doabt her being Varick
Dashon's child at all. Those who took this view were the rela-
tives of Mrs. Dashon, the numerous and powerful family of the
Varicks. Mr. Dashon himself had but one blood relation who
could be prejudiced by the acknowledgment of his grandchild.
This was a niece, daughter of his only brother, and brought up
in her uncle's family as a daughter. Before Dick Dashon had
his grand affair with Mlle. Romarin, it was thought that these
cousins would marry ; in the midst of it, however, Isabel
Dashon (named after her aunt-in-law) married too, and fortu-
nately for her a Varick, so that all the family were interested in
supporting her claims. The idea was that the little Romarin
(as she was called) being considered a mere side-slip, and pro-
vided for at best by a handsome legacy, if Varick Dashon died
abroad unmarried (as seemed likely), Mrs. George Varick (of

whom the reader knows something), as next of kin to Mr.
Dashon, would inherit all that portion of his vast property, viz. :
the whole real estate and half the personalty, which the law, if
he died intestate, would give her as his brother's child; while
the remainder, falling to Mrs. Dashon as widow-it was an
understood thing that she should survive her husband--would
be distributed at her death among her brothers and sisters and
their descendants.
But in thus cutting up Mr. Cornelius Roosevelt Dashon before
his time, the Varicks evidently reckoned without their host, as
what we have just related concerning his recognition of Rose-
mary proves. They had received her, as we have said, very
coldly. Mrs. Dashon's brothers and sisters to be sure had not
failed to call upon their little relative, if only from a motive of
curiosity ; but Mrs. George Varick had hitherto neglected to do
so. It is true she had been at Newport when Rosemary was
brought home by her grandparents, but some weeks had
elapsed since her return and she had only dropped a card at
her aunt's on a day when Mrs. Dashon and Rosemary were out
-a single card, not even turned down in the mysterious form
which signifies for "all the ladies ;" and grandmamma Dashon
vexed "at this impertinence-do you understand 'I" returned
the visit a few days after by sending her own card in an enve-
lope by a servant to "Mrs. Geo. Varick." There was no love
lost betwixt this aunt and niece-in-law, in spite of their dupli-
cated affinity: but Mr. Dashon loved his niece and invited her
with her husband to the dinner. He had better not: there are
some people who are less dangerous as open foes than as nomi-
nal friends.
The hour was five, The Dashons received their guests in the
library, and as the sun set that day at 4.40, it was already dark
It was a very fine apartment, lined with the most beautiful
book-cases in the city, and had but one defect considered as a
library--there were very few books in it. To remedy this the
cases were ingeniously contrived to show only half the shelves,
which part being carefully filled, the collection appeared to be
superb. But the company on this occasion were rich rather

194

ROSEMARY.

195

r,,kN
*'.
.y
_q
;;i
:;
:'#
r  r
,
"
^
S,
%

1


196               ROSEMARY..

than learned, and perhaps appreciated the magnificent cases
more than they would have done the books.
Yet was not Dr. Varick there, brother of grandmamma Dashon
and Professor of-well, no matter what he was professor of--in
the " Hokack Medical College ?" He was a learned man, or at
least a learned physician, with the largest practice in the city
in the department where his skill, science and experience were
supposed to be conspicuous. Undoubtedly there was not a
doctor in the metropolis whose buggy was seen to stand (and
sometimes to remain for hours) before so many first-class, brown-
stone fronts as Dr. Edward Varick's, He had ushered half the
rising generation of the Fifth avenue district into the world, ard
it was a strong evidence to his mind that our Rosemary had
made her entrance into it .n the wrong side of the blanket (as
the saying is), that he had not officiated at her birth. Dr. Varick
was not particularly intellectual in his appearance, though he
wore spectacles; but he was remarkably neat in his dress, es-
pecially so about his .wristbands, and his hands were always
white as snow (a figurative expression to convey their unsullied
-    cleanness); points which the ladies, Dr. V. considered, were
sure to notice in a gentleman in "my line of profession."
Then (what was I thinking of just now'?) there was the Rev.
Dr. Clerestory, Rector of St. Hubert's, the fashionable church of
the city, and brother-in-law of Mrs. Dashon and the preceding.
Dr. Clerestory was a solid divine and himself owned a fine
library of the Fathers. I know it because I have often heard
him speak of Chrysostom as a favorite author of his. He also
had a professional reason for doubting the marriage of Rose-
mary's parents: for it was clearly a thing that belonged at least
to the rule of "decently and in 'order" that a young man of
Varick Dashon's position in society should be married at St.
Hubert's, either by himself or the bishop. Dr. Clerestory had
not a bad ;head; it was bald, rathei- massive, with gray thick
locks over the ears; the face was shrewd, sly and indicative of
sensibility. In the pulpit he was vehement and eloquent. Al-
though he had a highly fashionable congregation-for a box at
the opera and a pew at St. Hubert's were equally symbols of a
fashionable family,-no one could denounce the spirit of the

NEW   AND OLD CHARACTERS.               197
world and all its vices and follies, more impartially, constantly
or-energetically than he; nor did this plainness of speech ever
give offence ; on the contrary, the more Dr. Clerestory lashed
their worldliness, their devotion to pleasure and show, their
extravagance in living, dress and equipage, the round of parties,
the useless life, the novel-reading, the vices of youth of both
sexes, and so forth, the more popular he grew; so that it really
seemed as if, like some Catholic penitents i Lnt t itnrey
gation of St. Hubert's desired to atone for the dissipationand
boundless frivolity, the devotion to Mammon an 1I the unscru-
pulous ritual of his servicevall the othcr days of the weekly
listening wh great self-complacency to Dr. Clerestory's denun-
ciation of their Course on Sunday. It was a dish served up to
-tcame, atl sevedt withgreat regularity, as often as the day
came, and served hot, wth the richest condiments of satire and
inactive, in a voice whose piercing quality ought to have
awakened the most careless sinner, and that produced a thrill
in the sensitive nature, which perhaps the trembling but de-
lighted auditors mistook for repentance. The congregation
then turned out on the sidewalk, a stream of beautiful dresses,
feeling better for their weekly castigation, like children who
have been voluptuously whipped, and returned to their former
ways with renewed relish. This reverend gentleman was rather
silent in company, as fluent speakers and ready writers often
are; but he could talk on occasion, and great weight was attri-
buted to the remarks which then fell from his lips; he was
servant, polished, courteous, and a dextrous listener; and his
wife, the Rev. Mrs. Clerestory, sister of course of Mrs. Dashon,
was sufficiently voluble to more than atone for the taciturnity
of her spouse. Then there were Mr. and Mrs. Abram Varick--
Mr. A. V. was the present chief of the firm of Varick &amp; Co.,.
formerly Daslhoi &amp; Variek ; and some junior members of the
several families. There were also a pair of professional friends
of the family ; namely, firt, the Hon. Daniel Plaidoyer, ex-
member of Congress and Mr. Dashon's confidential lawyer, the
depositary of his will, and whose opinion, very decidedly ex-
pressed in favor of the legitimacy of our little heroine, had
greatly influenced the Varicks in the determination they had


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

ROSEMARY.

198

come to, of accepting her heirship as a faith accompli; and
secondly.-but this gentleman deserves a fresh pen and a new
paragraph.
We have had the opportunity of becoming acquainted with
some of the means, not always he nicest or the most just, by
which Dr. Ezekiel Mannikin launched himself into a leading
metropolitan practice-how he got his fine four-story house on
Broadway and its fine furniture, his handsome brougham, his
black fellow to drive it, atid so forth. These externals could
not alone have secured his object in so short a time. Ezekiel
had early perceived the importance of a "speciality," and that
for which he appreciated in himself a certain predilection was
toxicology. . Since Orfila no one ever knew so much about poi-
sons. His experiments in corpore vili--in dogs, cats, rats, rab-
bits, &amp;c., were thorough affairs, and he reported them for the
"Hosack Medical and Surgical Journal," with a cynical minute-
ness which proved him to be a man of genuine science. Next,
Dr. Mannikin pulbished a book-a thick and costly o ctavo with
plates-" Mannikin on Poisons," =comprising his own experi-
ments, and showing a truly wonderful acquaintance with the
history of accidental and criminal poisoning. Departing from
the beaten track of medical works, he related the cases with
romantic details which rendered the book popular beyond the
limits of the profession, By sending copies, with a $5 bill en-
closed, he had got it noticed in all the leading papers in the
Union ; the metropolitan journals under different influences
gave long reviews of it with appetizing extracts: the Herald
gave it the benefit of a savage editorial attack, so worded as to
inflame the curiosity which causes the accounts of prize fights
and criminal trials to be eagerly read: the fortune of the book
was made and Dr. Mannikin became famous.
In every career there is a woman who does something for a
man which he could never do for himself. Dr. Manniki's good
feminine genius was a relative of the Dashons, as we are aware.
How much of his success be owed to her no one can tell. Didn't
she indirectly procure him his desirable house and fine furiui-
ture, his handsome brougham and smart black boy ? Did she
'not get her uncle Dr. Varick to adopt Dr. Mannikin as his con-

suiting physician'? Was it not her high recommendation (in-
spired by affection for her dear uncle) which induced grandpapa
Dashon to consult him for his goutI And was it not in conse-
quence of his marked success in this instance that grandmatnma
Dashon (much as she disliked taking up any pet of her niece)
had lately employed him in preference to her own brother'
And who smoothed over, if she could not wholly extinguish, the
natural jealousy which this caused in the Varick connection ?
Mrs. George Varick at this time stood well with all the world.
Her husband had returned from California some f9ur years
previous with (people said) half a million in gold dust, and a
beard a foot long. He had paid his old debts ; his debts of
honor in. full; his notes he cleverly bought in, through the
agency of a broker, at an average of fifteen per cent, on their
face: in fine, he had extinguished all his liabilities, and bought
.a house on Fifth avenue, where he lived in elegant style.
Doubtless the general esteem which he had won by these acts
of high integrity had procured him a responsible post in the
city government, of which the salary was nominal, but the pick-
ings amounted to a sum so large that it could not be classed as
income. It was said that he had doubled his fortune by  as
share in contracts, all legitimate operations. It was thought he
would run for Congress: and if he did, the knowing ones ob-
served that Varick would make a good thing of it. Enjoying
the unlimited confidence of this admirable citizen and model
public functionary, and dispensing his fortune with elegant
liberality in their splendid and hosnit ble mansion, Mrs. Varick's
social position was what in vulgar N w York parlance is te-md
A. No. 1. It is a mistake, by the way, to suppose that in New
York wealth is everything.  It is a great deal b    w
blood and family connecti ns this branch of the Varicks with
all their wealth, would have been sent to Coventry.
Mrs. Varick is at uncle Dashon's to-night, and looking
she always does, her best. In that principal irtue which our
ladies sacrifice so much to obtain, viz: of dressing well, she
shone conspicuous. Her robe was a pale purple satin withe
train; her lovely arms were bare ; her berthe was of antique
point lace, so old that it was yellow as gold, and she wore

i.

199


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.         201

a profusion of tasteful jewelry. Mrs. Varick was fair, with
light brown hair ; her mouth was her greatest defect, it resem-
bled that of a!squirrel; her figure was universally admired, and
by the way the superfluity of stuff in her train being borrowed
from the body of the dress, showed what she herself considered
her strongest attraction. She advanced to greet Rosemary with
a sort of serpentine undulation, half turning to disengage her
dress from some gentleman's boot, and kissed her on both
cheeks, calling her " Cousin Rose." Augusta Varick did exact-
ly as her mamma did, and then Master Cornelius Roosevelt
Dashon Varick came shyly forward. This boy was a month or
two older than Rosemary, with the most splendid eyes any male
creature ever had : but he was undersized-and not quite straight.
As the girl shook hands with him, she overtopped this boy cousin
almost a head, and her capacious chest, well-poised figure and
vigorous limbs (she was in shorts, remember), were a striking
contrast to his narrow chest, stooping figure and poor shrivelled
legs. Rose Marie bestowed on him a glance of surprised and.
tender pity, and seemed about to kiss him; but the boy at that
drew back with a flush of anger, and his mother too reddened
deeper than her rouge. This incident was observed by all the
company.
Meanwhile the hour was past, and yet they waited for some
one. Grandpapa consulted his watch. Then a carriage rolled
up. Presently enters the loveliest woman of. the company.
She was evidently a matron, for her husband was with her; to
judge by the maturity of her form, might own thirty summers ;
but her face, of an ideal purity in all its containing curves--
perfect oval or classic profile,-was still of a delicate bloom; her
throat (to which she was covered) and her arms were of a daz-
zling whiteness, heightened by her black vlIvet robe. A dia-
mond arrow pierced her braid, and a cross of brilliants glittered
upon her breast. Grandmamma Dashon received her with
distinction, and then immediately presented Rosemary, saying:
--" My dear Mrs. Atherton, lit me present to you my grand-
daughter, Miss Rose Marie Dashon."-And Mrs. Atherton, like
Mrs. Varick, stooped down and kissed Rosemary on both cheeks
-with a mouth like one of Correggio's smiling angels.

*le

"Your papa and I were great friends," she said.
"YVarick and you must have danced together hundreds of
times," said grandmamma.
"Shall I ever forget it?  A handsome boy and a brave.
How well I remember his quitting me once in the quadrille, to
run out to a fire !"
"This daughter of his is our only grandchild-do you under-
stand ?" said grandmamma.
"I understand perfectly," said Mrs. Atherton, smiling. "Poor
thing ! I pity you, my dear. I was an only child and great
heiress too. So in all your troubles you must come to me,-will
you, Miss Rose Marie ?"-with a glance half mirthful, half ten-
der, which fascinated Rosemary.
Many others hastened to greet this beautiful woman whose
appearance at-this family gathering was a mystery to some of
the Varicks. The Athertons were very wealthy people who had
been residing abroad fQr a number of years. A domestic inci-
dent, requiring, as Mrs. Atherton fancied,'Dr. Varick's attention,
had recalled them some months previous, since when they had
been at their country seat. Within a few weeks only had they
returned to town to spend the winter, but it was solely in order
to carry on the education of their children to better advantage,
and they seemed to avoid general society. Grandmamma
Dashon could have told them why she invited the Athertons on
the present occasion. Twelve years before, when Mrs. Atherton
was a girl of eighteen, she had called upon Mrs. Dashon-the
most fashionable matron of the time--with a singular request
which Mrs. Dashon had haughtily refused. The young lady had
expressed herself on the subject of the refusal with a great deal
of warmth, and Mrs. Dashon had been seriously offended.
There had been a coolness ever since between the families.
"What do you know about such matters, Miss D.?-you an
unmarried girl !" Mrs. Dashon had said,,contemptuously.
"I know so much as this, Mrs. Dashon," answered the young
lady with spirit, "that the mother who is so well prepared for
an infant born two months before its time---"
"How do you know that interesting fact? You have the other

200               ROSEMARY.


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.         203

ma-de-moi-selle's word for it I suppose !"-with a short scornful
.laugh.
"The poor mother is unconscious, madam. I know 1 othing
about such matters myself-I give you the opinion of the doc-
tor and the other ladies. The little creature has neither nails
nor eyelashes, and a quart mug would hold it, I think."
" Ha ! ha! poor little fadnole ! It won't live, and so much the
better."
"It is your own flesh and blood, madam," replied Miss D.,
indignantly, "for whom, I repeat to you, the lovely young
mother has prepared a drawer-full of the most beautifully
worked clothing--her needle is sticking in the baptismal robe !----
I will stake my own character that she never did that for a child
whose birth should cause her to blush."
"So much the better for her, Miss D. She had better die,
then, and go to Heaven at once, for into my house neither she
nor her-child shall come."
For Mrs. Atherton (then unmarried) was one of the ladies,
visitors of a charitable society, who found poor Therese Roma-
rin, or Dashon rather, delirious and expiring, on the second day
after the birth of Rosemary. Miss D., as a girl moving in Mrs.
Dashon's circle, and knowing the family from a child, was de-
puted to communicate, the facts to that lady, and she did it with
energy but without success.
But, all these fine people now filed in to dinner, served in the
oak dining-room. The gilded corona was lighted up and threw
a flood of light upon the large round table. Every guest's
name was in his plate. Rosemary found herself placed between
her cousin Roosey, and a. gentleman to whom Mrs. Atherton
immediately stad :-" Alban, I want to introduce you to your
youthful neighbor."--The gentleman turned to her with a smile,
and Mrs. Atherton introduced Mr. Atherton to Miss Dashon.
"My Christian name is Rose Marie," said the young girl,
pointedly.
"They ought to call you Rosemary," said Mr. Atherton.
"They do," said Rosemary.
" Ah! I have made a happy guess. I foresee that we shall
be great friends, Miss Rosemary."

"I like you very much already," said the little girl, frankly.
"lie is a sad flirt, Miss Rose," said Mrs. Atherton: "so I put
you on your guard."
"That lady is your wife, of course-is she not, sir ?" said
Rosemary, in a girlish whisper.
"Of course, and jealous !" in the same tone.
Mr. Atherton got on famously with his young neighbor, who
found her cousin rather surly. Between the succession of
courses, and the attentions he was obliged. to pay to one of her
aunts who sate on his right, he contrived to make the dinner
very agreeable to her, When the dessert was come, he was ex-
plaining to her a project he had of a great park for her to ride
in, like the Bois de Boulogne at Paris; and Rosemary boldly
referred it to grandpapa, who she thought could do anything
that merely required money, and the topic waa hunted down by
the whole table. Mr. Atherton became silent, but occasionally
smiled with Rosemary at the elegant hubbub they had caused.
At last he was appealed to by Mr. Dashon, who was in favor of
setting on foot an immense subscription to buy land for a park.
"It is useless to talk of subscriptions for a project that won't
pay dividends," replied Atherton. "This sort of thing must
be done by the sovereign."
"The sovereign ' "
"Yes, the People. Let the legislature authorize a popular
vote on the question whether the city shall buy and lay out a
great park. Then it will be done. All sovereigns are naturally
munificent, and the people-sovereign above all."
{ "You really think such a thing could be got through ?"
asked Mr. Dashon.
"I am certain of it. It is the only really popular idea I
have heard of since the Croton was brought into the city."
" Let us try," said grandpapa Dashon.
"What we want to subscribe for," said Alban, "is the expense
of lobbying and engineering the bill through the assembly."
" Our legislators," observed Mr. Plaidoyer, "are of that
incorruptible integrity that they won't permit the people to
spend their own money unless they receive a considerable
douceur themselves."

202               ROB MARY.


NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

"The Cerberus of the treasury must ne drugged with golden
honey," said Dr. Clerestory.
'cGolden honey ! That is money ! Good, good !" chuckled Dr.
Varick.
"Golden honey ! That is money ! Why, I declare, uncle,
you are quite a poet !" said Mrs. George Varick ; and Dr.
Edward blushed all round his spectacles at his own achieve-
ment, which passed from mouth to mouth of all the Varicks at
table.
"Mr. Dashon and myself can well afford to pay a few thou-
sands each to further such a project," continued Atherton, "for
we shall get it back fifty times over in the enhanced value of
our property. As the land on the island is limited, the more of
it is taken up by a park, the less is left for other purposes, Sand
what is left must rise in price."
"Won't you lose in taxation what you gain in that way ?"
asked Dr. Mannikin.
"Certainly not, doctor," said Atherton, smiling. "The taxes
are paid by our tenants, and by the public that enjoys the park ;
the rise in real estate goes into our pockets."
"I will subscribe five thousand on the spot to set the thing
going," said grandpapa Dashon.
After the ladies had retired a subscription was started. The
Varicks did not come down so liberally as Atherton considered
that they ought, still in that wealthy company twelve thousand
dollars was soon made up and Mr. Dashon was confident that
it could be raised to fifty thousand, if necessary, in the course of
an hour down town. Every man's word was as good as his
bond, and Atherton being a lawyer as well as a man of fortune,
was authorized to manage the affair.
-" If it cost twice fifty thousand I shall put it through," said
he, as he placed the subscription paper in his pocket. It was
concluded by pledging mutual secrecy.
--" To succeed," said Atherton, astutely, "we must renounce
the credit of succeeding. Let every influential paper in the
city privately know our determination, and then take to itself
the merit of the initiative."
'd The parties who never by any possibility initiate anything

and who seem to initiate everything," said Dr. Mannikin,
sardonically.
"'Tis the cheapest way of securing their support," observed
Dr. Clerestory.       .
"Aye! the papers lead public opinion, but what leads the
papers ?" demanded Mr. Dashon. "This !"-holding up his
purse.
"The power behind the throne in this country is money," said
tr. Mannikin.
"Golden honey," said Dr. Clerestory, with a dry smile.
"Golden honey, that is money !" echoed Dr. Varick with a
self-congratulatory chuckle.
"Money plus brains," said Atherton, with an audacious look.
"What can a rich fool do, like poor George Law for instance ?
Even less than a poor genius. But money with intellect can do
everything."
"Both which you all have," said Dr. Mannikin, bowing to the
rest of the company.
"And you, doctor," said Atherton, twisting up a cigarette,
"have one, and intend making use of it to obtain the other."
Meanwhile in the " winter drawing-room" over their heads,
Mrs. Atherton, with the easy manners of a reigning beauty, had
taken the hand of the young Rosemary, while the other ladies
gossipped about their families and the winter fashions, and seat-
ing herself on the piano-stool, letting her rich drapery spread
around her, prattled away in the pleasantest maniser with the
little heiress She knew that Rosemary's mother was French.
"So was mine, my dear," said the heart-enslaver, and Rose-
mary, delighted, drew so near that Mrs.,Atherton began to play
with her, curls.-" And Romarin-why that means rosemary in
French, does it not?"  "But-certainly !" replied the little
girl.--" And that is why your grandpapa used to call you Rose-
mary-is it ?"-" Yes, certainly."-" I have seen you before,
Rosemary-when you were very little indeed,"-.said the beauti-
ful matron, tenderly; -and the little girl, emboldened, fairly took
hold of the cross set in brilliants that sparkled so on Mrs. Ather-
ton's rich black velvet corsage.-" Do you know your catechism
pretty well, Rosemary ?"-" Pretty well, madame."-" You must

204

ROSEMARY.

205


206                    ROSEMARY.
come to see me," said Mrs. Atherton.-" Where do you live '"'
asks Rosemary.-" On the corner of -- street and the Ave-
nue."-" Is that Mr. De Groot's house V'-" The same."-" Oh, I
know it-there are two little girls live there !"-" They are my
little girls, Rosemary. The two eldest are girls, but the baby is
a boy."-" How old is the baby, Mrs. Atherton ?" inquired
Rosemary.-" Six months only, and by the same token the
little fellow expects me home soon."-" Ah ! he is so little as
that !" said Rosemary. As the gentlemen entered Rosemary
was jnst kissing Mrs. Atherton, who hushed her and turned
round to the piano ; but as she began to play, the enchantress
turned again her lovely spirited profile to Rosemary, with a
roguish smile, as much as to say : "They nearly caught us-
didn't they ?'"-And the young French girl, with instinctive
coquetry, interpreted the movement and the smile by looking
slyly across the instrument at those messiewrs, as if she had
said :-' You have seen nothing, gentlemen, have you ?"
It is no part of our plan to describe the pleasures of t} is even-
ing further than their bearing on the story requires. It is easy
to give a fictitious character any amount of accomplishment,
ap$ it would prove nothing if we said that Mrs. Atherton
was a remarkable vocalist: we have said it already when we
were relating long ago her personal history, and the years that
have since elapsed have only ripened her powers. She knew
that everybody would wish her to sing, and gave a delicate re-
cognition of the strictly domestic character of the reunion to
which she had been invited, by not waiting to bey asked. All
conversation was hushed while she poured out her, soul-like
melody. The beauty of the singer .enhanced the charm. The
gentleman. listened spell-bound. When it was over, she rose
quickly from the instrument, laughed slightly at the wondering
Rosemary, patting her kindly on the cheek, and went to a
seat where she was surrounded by congratulations -and praises,
which she acknowledged- eafelessly. The ladies, among whom
Mrs. George Varick was conspicuous, complimented her husband.
"Mrs. Atherton has continued to cultivate her voice in obe-
dience to me," answered he, smiling : "hence I am fairly
entitled'to the praise."

NEW AND OLD CIIARACTIRS.

207

"A woman would do a great deal for such a husband," said
Mrs. Varick.
The rules required that the young lady on whose account
this reunion took place should give a specimen of her accom-
plishments also, if she possessed any. Grandmamma Dashon
understood these points very well. She had discovered that this
little girl was for her age extremely well educated, and she was
resolved that the Varicks should know it. First a portfolio of_
her drawings was handed about. All admitted that for a child
they were clever. The maps in India ink were voted beautiful
and indicated also a knowledge of geography.
"Carefully and neatly executed--I wish my little girls may
be able to do as well," said Mr. Atherton.
"My grand papa taught me !" said the little girl, eagerly
"that is"--glancing round-" my grandpapa Romarin."
Presently, Rosemary stood up in the middle of the saloon, and
a little hush being made, recited a passage from Racine. It
was thoroughly child-like and thoroughly French ; everybody
was amused, and the purity of her accent and pretty gestures
received high commendation. And now she must seat herself
a-t the piano and play ; then sing a short German song, then an
Italian one. All this was entirely satisfactory, and showed that
no girl of twelve could have employed her time to more purpose.
"You have a talent for music, Rose," said Mrs. Atherton,
"and if you practise you will in time play far better than I ever
shall ;-but you should not sing much."
"Her voice lacks pathos," said Mr. Atherton: "it should be
allowed to rest."
"She takes to this kind of exhibition of herself very natu-
rally, we must allow," said Mrs. George Varick, shrugging her
white shoulders.
But what is this that the tall servant brings in '? An artist's
easel, and a black-board with a great diagram chalked on it.
At that Rosemary blushed, and exclaimed--." Grandmamma!"
"My dear child," said grandmamma, "I want you to demon-
strate--the what do you call it'?"
"The square of he hypothenuse," said the child. " Every-
body will laugh at me."

0


I

4-yx

NEW AND OLD CHARACTERS.

With some difficulty she could be induced to comply. Then
with a wilful grace she took grandpapa's cane as a pointer, and
blushing deeply, demonstrated the 47th Proposition. Then
grandmamma gave Mr. Atherton her algebra and requested him
to examine her at hap hazard. The tall servant turned and
lowered the black-board, and the young lady soon covered that
side with mystical characters which except Atherton and Dr.
Clerestory perhaps no one present understood. The solution was
pronounced by both these gentlemen to be correct, and the others
took it in faith.
"This," said Atherton, emphatically, "is really remarkable.
It is a study of Freshman year at Yale and Columbia-I had
done it myself at fourteen, and was thought a forward boy.
Did your grandpapa Romarin teach you algebra, petite 7"
"Yes, certainly," said Rosemary.
This exhibition was regarded with profound but well disguised
irritation and contempt by several of those invited to witness it.
Mrs. George Varick, who was generally considered to be chiefly
interested in the matter, the more her young cousin s accom-
plishments and talents became evident, the deeper and deadlier
hate she conceived for her, modified only by a plan which
before this party she had faintly outlined. After conversing with
Mr. Atherton for along time, and so confidentially that it had the
air of a flirtation, Mrs. George gliding through the apartment
and speaking to several relatives in high praise of the youthful
Dashon,-" Very generous on.your part !" as they said,-at last,
as if by accident, stopped near Dr. Mannikin, who was listening,
quite rapt, to another song from Mrs. Atherton. Dr.,fannikin
rose and made her a slight but formal and respectful inclina-
tion, as a professional man does to a great lady in society, with
whom he wishes to stand well. They seemed to discuss the
singer or the performance.
"The petite Romarin is quite a success," whispered the
doctor-.
"If I were Louis Napoleon I would make the grandpapa a
general-he has shown that he understands taking fortresses,"
said Mrs. George, looking at the songstress as if about to cry
Brava !

" She will inherit these palatial halls, madam," replied the
doctor sententiously.
"Could she be persuaded to marry Roosey-do you think?"
"Not for some years, I fancy."
" Roosey will be a man as soon as she will a woman."
"In feelings," said the doctor, emphatically.
"In person he will be a wretched little dwarf, I know," hissed
the lady. " For all that she must marry him or--"
"There is time for a thousand things to happen before that."
"True-and what is your boasted science worth, Ezekiel"--
turning to him-" if you can't rid me of such vermin as that ?"
"An imprudent remark," said the doctor, glancing round
uneasily.
"If I meant anything by it," said the lady, carelessly and re-
suming her composed manner. "As I don't, where's the im-
prudence ?"
When the Athertons retired, which was very soon, Mrs. Ather-
ton pleading, with a brilliant smile, her domestic cares, grand-
papa Dashon said :-" That is the happiest couple in New
York."
"Mrs. Atherton retains her beauty perfectly," said grand-
mamma. ' What a mouth she has! Of all things I admire a
beautiful mouth-do you understand ? No face can be really
beautiful when the mouth is mean, or like an animal, do you
understand ?"
Now it was Mrs. Dashon who first observed in regard td her
niece, how much "Bell's mouth resembled a squirrel's"-a re-
mark which did not fail in time to reach that young lady's ears,
and supplied one of the many original reasons why Mrs. George
Varick hated her aunt, who on her part returned the sentiment
with the most Christian and lady-like aversion.
Drs. Varick and Mannikin also discovered that they had pro-
fessional calls to attend and disappeared : and the younger por-
tion of the company, reinforced by the juniors from several
neighboring families, organized a quadrille in the great drawing-
room. Rosemary was made to play the hostess to them all,
New as the part must have been to her, she did it charmingly,

208

RSMARY.

209


210                    ROSEMARY.
taking off the high easy manner of her friend Mrs. Atherton
with all the youngerpones.
"What a little monkey it is !" said grandpapa Dashon
" She has great talent though, and will be killingly beautiful.
If poor little Roosey were only two years older, instead of two
months, and a head taller-yes, a head taller-his mother might
have some hope of him too."
But Rose will never take to that boy except in a sisterly
way. She is dancing now with a lad full fifteen, and although
he has the downy beginnings of a mustache, smokes and swears
and drinks brandy and water, and goes to the theatre two or
three nights in the week, she will presently toss back her black
ringlets among the girls and say :--" Oh, I don't like boys!
why didn't Mr. and Mrs. Atherton stay'i I am quite in love
with them, I declare"

CHAPTER IV.
HOW THE DASHONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.
MRs. ATHERTON entertained her husband that evening with
the history of little Rosemary Dashon, which he had never
before heard. Seated in her low rocker, with her own baby in
her arms, Mary Atherton was happy within and spicy without.
There was no vinegar in her sparkling narrative, still less any
gall, but plenty of pepper and salt. She didn't spare grand-
mamma Dashon nor the Varicks either. By her account tho
story of Therese Romarin, the mother of Rosemary, was a
deeply pathetic one, and grandmamma Dashon either knew no-
thing about it, or did not relate it correctly. Mrs. Atherton
remembered perfectly the sensation caused by Mile. Romarin's
elopement, and also the emotion-so very rare a thing-at early
Mass on the first Sunday of the month immediately following,
on seeing her go to communion as usual, and how as she came
back from the altar, with head inclined and hands meekly
folded according. to her custom, every one saw the wedding-
ring on her finger-she who never wore rings at any time..
Nobody doubted she was married, she never denied it, she an-
swered unhesitatingly, though with a blush, when addressed as
"Mrs. Dashon," and everybody understood the reason why they
did nothing to force the fact on the attention of Varick Dashon's
parents, and also why they ran away-it was not to implicate
her father. They were not married till she left her father's
house with Varick ; the contrary supposition was entirely false.
Indeed there was nothing mysterious about it to Mrs. Atherton
except the one undoubted fact that Mlle. Romarin deemed her-
self acting right all the time, and that her director justified her.
That was plain: -.tr on the morning of her marriage (Mrs.
Atherton was knowing to all these circumstances) they met in


212

ROSEMARY.

the sacristy, Mlle. Romarin was accompanied by her bonne,
Dick Dashon by one of his own family-a young lady-Mrs.
Atherton for reasons of her own did not name her; and the
bishop married them in the church, without other witnesses
(for Mass was said then on week-days in the basement of the
chapel) except the boy who lighted the candles on the altar
and held the vessel of holy water to sprinkle the ring withal.
At that time no record was kept of marriages, not even a certi-
ficate was given, but it was on a certain morning of June, 1830,
as " Monseigneur certified afterwards in writing to Capt Ro-
marin."
"Why did he not publish it ?" asked Atherton.
Because, unfortunately, owing to a sad mischance, the proof
of this marriage at this date, did not clear up the real charge
under which his daughter suffered, that Monseigneur married
them to repair a fault already committed. For on the last night
of the same year, while her husband was absent at the seat of
government soliciting a clerkship, returning, from church about
dusk (for the next day was Sunday as well as New Year's Day),-
she slipped and fell, receiving a severe shock, and before the
New Year's morning dawned gave birth to a daughter, to save
whose life she sacrificed her own. For after this afflicting acci-
dent, it is certain that Therese Dashon, nee Romarin, descendant
by her mother of the princely Floreals, destitute of all attend-
ance, after doing all for the child untimely born that she knew
how, seeing that contrary to all her expectation it lived and
cried, dressed herself and went forth before daylight in the
bleak winter morning for a physician. She went first to Dr.
Varick, and the doctor declined going to a tenement house at
that hour, still more decidedly when he heard that it was Varick
Dashon's child-he " did not want to have anything to do with
the case."-A few doors further, wandering up Broadway, the
fainting mother found another doctor ; despairing she pulled
the night-bell-
"It was our good Dr. Tankerville," continued Mary Ather-
ton.  "You may guess what his answer was.     He conveyed
Th6rbse home in his own carriage, carried her up stairs himself,
saved the infant by his skilful care, but he could not save the

HOW   THE DASIIONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.        213
mother; what terrible sequel of her heroic exposure I know
not, destroyed her. Not knowing who she was, he sent for our
ladies; some of us came--why linger over so sad a tale? Never
shall I forget how poor Capt. Romarin looked when he entered
the room-his white stern soldier-like face! Nobody knew
what to say, but I drew aside the curtain of a little crib--I had
bought it myself-and showed him the infant wrapped in cotton.
lie regarded it with his eagle eye.--' How long before its time
was this child born, doctor?' he asked, hoarsely and briefly.-..
'To judge by its appearance a six months' child,' said the doc-
tor, in the most matter-of-fact tone--'it is barely viable-I
never knew one live yet!'-' It MUST live!' cried Romarin, burst-
ing into a flood of tears.-Oh, Alban! there was not a dry eye
among us all !"
Now here was an instance of what we may almost call those
secret machinations of Providence which startle us so in unfold-
ing any history whatever.
"The little chit has life enough in her now," observed her
husband.
SIsn't she a charming little gipsy ! So French ! And her
progress in mathematics is astonishing to me."
"A clever little girl and well taught."
"And such a pity that all should run to waste under Mrs.
Dashon's finishing hand," resumed his wife. "Would you be-
lieve that the talk ofsed'                      youe
day-echoot theyta f isendng her to Psyche de Juponville's
day-school, to be finished? The pupils, you know, wear only
silk dresses, and practice their lessons beforeua swing-glass."
"What lessons ?"
"How to lift your robe in crossing a street, how in entering a
carriage, and all the other coquetries of the sidewalk and the
drawing-room, which a Christian maid or matron is all the love-
lier for not comprehending. You look incredulous but it is
fact. Psyche de Juponville's finished pupils have taken th
avenue society by storm lately, but that little Rose Dashon has
more in her head now that's worth knowing, than the best of
them."
''You appear to think highly of mathematics for girls, my
dear."

4


214

ROSEMARY.

" Oh! it is not that, but solid studies. Have I not heard you
often say that mathematics discipline the mind better than al..
most any other branch."
"Plato thought so, and recommended them for women. So
he did gymnastics, in which respect his judgment'has not been
so highly approved."
"Why not ?" asked his wife, simply. "I thought exercise
was as good for women as for men."
"True, my dear ; but the gymnastics of the Greeks (as the
name implies) were exercises in which men contended quite
nude."
" Ah !"-laughing innocently-" but surely that feature is not
essential. And do you know, little Rosemary Dashon says she
can climb 'as good as any boy V  I quite believe it, fdr she has
the most supple, elastic figure in the world. . Her spine bends
and springs back under your hand like a bow of steel."
"I noticed her striding over Madam Dashon's grand carpet
as if it had been a moonlit lawn," said her husband.
"What a contrast to that poor little Cornelius Varick !" pur-
sued Mrs. Atherton. "And yet, do you know, the Varicks
think those two children should be married when they are old
enough ?"
"Cousins! and the boy a ricketty dwarf!"
"Just what Mrs. Dr. Varick observed in telling'me of it: for
she wants the child for her own son the lieutenant."
"Twice her age."
"That objection will diminish as they grow older."
"It will be some years before any such plans can take effect,"
observed Atherton, drily.
" True ; and do you know that I have formed a plan, dear,
for this little Rosemary ?"
"Matrimonial? you don't mean her for Eugene, I hope."
"Scarcely," said his wife, laughing-for Eugene was her
baby ;-" no, an educational plan; that is, to have her join our
girls in their school-room. Now I know what you are going to
object-that she is three years older than Grace, and so ad-
vanced that they can have no lessons in common. As regards
English studies, I am not so sure of that."

HO    THE DASHONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.         215
"I am sure of the contrary," said Atherton. "Grace would
correct her English a dozen times in as many sentences."
"There, then, you see the advantage to the child, and it will
be equally good for the French of my girls."
"We will grant that."
"Well, then I would look after the faith and morals of this
little orphan, in whom I must feel the tenderest interest."
"My love, you reflect somewhat severely on Mrs. Dashon in
that remark !"
" Mrs. Dashon ! ! You should have heard her talk to me to-
night about her grandchild's religious education. She considers
her destined to make some grand alliance in France-the child
is descended from the Flor6als, you know-and that is another
claim upon me, for the Flordals and the Rosieres were always
connected :-so graudmamma wishes her to be trained in all
the observances of the Catholic religion-' were she herself a
duchesse, she would attend Mass in state every Sunday'-' what
one believes is quite another affair, do you understand ''-Hence,
she has taken a pew at St. Vincent's for the child, and sends her
in the carriage with her bonne every Sunday morning !"
Is it a thoroughly good little girl-this Rosemary ?"
"She has had no one to teach her what is right but an old
officer and a simple bonne. It seems that Capt. Romarin made
a scientific division of the subject. He said to Louise-' You
shall teach my grandchild her religion and her modesty-I will
instruct her in all other moral virtues.'-I judge that the plan
has succeeded-at least she is open as the day."
"It is not from grandpapas and bonnes that children learn
mischief. What companions of hei own age has she had ?"
"Till lately none ; and even now she has no intimate friends."
"Except her goat."
"Then she is so devotedly attached to her grandpapa Roma-
rin, who brought her up, understands so well the difference
between her obligations to him and to these rich worldly
grandparents who will make her their heir. It is a shrewd,
sensible little damsel withal."
"The Dashons would not object, I suppose."
"They would jump at the chance !" said Mary Atherton.

I

I

.1

, '   V
t            . ....    '4;,

'


21                     ROSEMARY.
"See a little mom of her before you decide," said her hus-
band.   If our maternal instinct is satisfied, I shall not object
on general principles."Ahr
Tonhenext day Rosemary came by invitation to visit the Ather-
tons She brought Nanette, and the children were so much .
delighted with both playmates, their plays which, began to be
somewhat dull had so much more life than usual, that Mrs.
Atherton was quite convinced her plan was good. They kept the
child to dinner; in the evening Mr. Atherton joined his family
and amused the girls with funny games. It is in these unguard-
ed moments that character shows itself. Rosemary, quite un-
used to such diversions, grew wild with excitement. In the
midst of it arrived a servant with a carriage to convey Miss
Dashon home.   --bekn                                 f
"Oh! I am so sorry !" said Rosemary, instantly breaking off,
with a look of severe disappointment.
"Oh, don't go yet-don't let her go, papa !" cried the Ather-
ton girls.                                     qatro
"I think we may venture to keep the carriage a quarter of
an hour, till we have finished this game, Miss Rose," said Mr.
Atherton.
"I thank you very much, Mr. Atherton," replied the young
lady with dignity, "but my grandpapa says that in not obeying
immediately, one disobeys." d
With that she at once put on her beaver and mantle, embraced
her little friends and Mrs. Atherton, offered her hand to Mr.
4.therton, left a kiss for Eugene, and departed. We divine that
the Athertons made their proposition immediately to the Dashons.
The Dashons were charmed. The question of Rosemary's
education, which had become embarrassing, obtained in this man-
ner a prompt and easy solution. She was not seat to a board-
ing-school, to which grandpapa Dashon was extremely averse;
and yet grandmamma Dashon escaped the bore of superintending
her instruction by masters. The pecuniary part was so arrann
ed-hat Mr. Dashon incurred no obligation to the Atherons,
while the governess and masters had every reason to be satisfied
As soon as the holidays were over Rosemary commenced going
regularly' every morning -at nine o'clock to Mrs. Atherto

H     THE DASHONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.          217
to school. The lessons lasted from nine to three, with an hour's
intermission for play and luncheon. Thus six hours da
cept on Thursdays and Sundays, were spent by our little heroil~e
under the roof of her friends and chiefly under Mrs. Atherton's
maternal eye. Tuese days scarcely formed an exception. The
intimacy of school-hours led to engagenents for the weekly holi-
day.Indeed at all times, if Rose was not at Mrs. Atherton's the
arton girls were sure to be at " Rosemary's," as in children's
parlance Mr. Dashon's mansion was soon called. They were
tamen   t ty  de Athogether, sometimes by the grandpapa, some-
times by Mr. Atherton; took their rides and walks together, or
visited the museum, the hippodrome, tepcuelerytorethero
placs ofinnoen  ue eu  o  bhe picture-gallery, or other
places of innocent .musement together. OnSndyitste
grandmnamma Dashon's ideas to send Miss Dashon to church i
her own caniage, accompanied by Louise, which did not pre-
ventMss  hetono tekn as   andeobtaining permission from
Mrs. Atherton to take home either Graceo        esi.O
r ainy undays it became a custom for the Athertons to call for
Rose, who then--the carriage being quite full-claimed the right
to sit "sometimes" on Mr. Atherton's knee "as well as the
others;" a privilege Grace and Bessie were sometimes inclined
to ispute, saleging-wih a pout--that it was more polite to
yield  Miss Dashon" one of the seats of the carriage. It could
mnied utat "sometimes" these little girls quarrelled, and
manifested various infirmities of temper.
As happens with g-nerous children, the difference of age
between Grace and Rose only gave their friendship a new shade
of tenderness. The manners of the Atherton girls at the outset
ce uofeniably more elegant, savoring of the aristocratic
society of the old world in the midst of which they had passed
their childhood This was what specially charmed grandmamma
shonin sthe Atherton intimacy.  Whether it were blood
Showing itself, as the Athertons themselves were disposed to
allow; or a facility of imitation as Mrs. Dashon considered ; Rose
Marie caughtiall that fine  nd nameless grace immediately.
Of the otree children she w  the cleverest, the most passionate
generous impuive a    imperious, and she was also the most
S  east selfish and the most courageously true of
10treo


218

ROSEMARY.

them all. Bessie Atherton, a golden-haired blonde, was a child
of infinite susceptibility and mobility of temper, an Apiil tem-
perameit of smiles and tears, of eager affection and short-lived
petulance ; but if she wept, it was like a little lady, with her
cambric handkerchief on her face and her face buried in one
graceful arm, haughtily suppressing her sobs ; if she smiled or
laughed, the little aristocrat had the air of despising laighter
all the same :-it was the most comical piece of infant noblesse-
that you can conceive. Mary Grace-quiet, reserved, sometimes
moody, dreamily indolent, yet capable of intense application,
addicted to novel-reading, even in her temper, invincible in her
vill, with a high opinion of herself, her parents, her family, her
faith and everything else belonging to her, a deep clear brunette
in complexion, with eyes like sloes and hair like her mother's,
of a rich blackish brown-was not thought so loveable as Bessie,
but was more constant, more persevering both in study and
in attachments, and for four years kept abreast of Rosemary in
English studies, though obliged to "knock under" to her in
French, music and mathematics. In this competition of course
little Bessie was nowhere.
Mr. Atherton thought that Rose Dashon's turn for the exact
sciences ought to be encouraged, and with grandpapa Dashon's
consent, he got a rare mathematical scholar, actuary of a Life
Insurance Company in which they both were interested, to
superintend this part of her education. Mr. Charles Calcul
turned up his nose at the idea of a girl being a mathematician;i;
but after making Rosemary show him how to extract the mth
root of a polynomial, he laughed, settled his auburn wig, pulled
his large round English ear, and said in broad Yorkshire," Vall,
we ken but troy her, Mister Atherton." Rosemary teased and
provoked the poor mathematician out of his life almost, but she
made great progress under him, with the more facility as all the
books were in her native tongue.
Each summer saw the Athertons flit to their rural mansion onf
the Hudson, a quasi-baronial seat ; and grandpapa Dashof
erected near them a pretty cottage after the designs of Down
ing: for his own country-house was on the Sound. Here the
lighter lessons were resumed, but the physical nature receive

HOW   THE DASHONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.         219
the chief care. Grandpapa paid an annual visit of at least two
months to the Springs for his gout. Rose was then the guest
of the Athertons. With all her affection and duty to her grand-
parents, those were the golden days of her youth. So passed
the years of these children of opulence. The second Spring
Rose Dashon and Grace Atherton were confirmed together.
The third summer Rose was found to  measure five feet exact,
and lengthened her dresses to within tw  ches of her ancles
But she still wore a brown "flat" on wee  ays and her hair in
ringlets. Its color was a shade or two lig ter, and by pulling
it out straight the jade could nearly sit on it. She would have
confined it in a braid, as well as have had her skirts sweep the
walks; had she been allowed her own way; for grandamma
was terribly afraid of her growing up, and would not hear of
either proposal, an obstinacy which cost the youIg lady many
tears when the muslins were fitted. She even wrote to grand-
papa Romarin on the subject, but as the dawning of the Empire
was occupying his attention at the moment, and the Prince Pre-
sident had just named him a general, although he answered his
granddaughter's letter, he entirely forgot to say anything about
her curls or dresses. To make her amends he sent her some
pretty Parisian gifts.
The third summer went like lightning, for that autumn was
destined to bring sad changes. Mr. Atherton was in Congress.
lie took a house in Washington, and his beautiful wife accom-
panied him to sustain his influence by her social charm. The
children of course went with their parents, and Rosemary's
school was closed.  There was more weeping at grandpapa
Dashon's the day the Athertons left for the capital of the
Union than on the day grandpapa Romarin sailed. It was not
such a wilful storm of petulant grief. Rosemary sat on grand-
papa's knee, and laid her head on his shoulder and cried at
least an hour.-." Come, that will do," said grandmamma-
such a great girl as you, almost fifteen years old, should not be
such a cry-baby-do you understand ?"--Rose stopped crying
and after that went cheerfully about her lessons as usual. Her
masters agreed that she never made such progress as that year;
she Was so eager to improve that she was unwilling to intermit her


220               ROSEMARY.

lessons even in summer, and she came down to the city twice a
week to recite :-it was only a two hours' ride on the cars. It
was the lonesession and lasted far into the summer, and the
Athertons returned just as the Dashons were going to the White
Sulphur, and the families missed each other. The next winter
it was the same thing over, and a good deal duller for Rose-
mary, who had no companions, no resource but her music, books,
an occasional evening at the opera and driving out with grand-
mamma in the dreary streets. Grandpapa had gout very severely,
and was attended by Dr. Mannikin. Rose became quite devout.
Grandmamma was alarmed lest her health should suffer, or she
should take it into her head to enter a convent. For the child
went to church every morning before breakfast, and during
Lent abstained from meat-which grandmamma Dashon called
"fasting rigorously, do you understand 1"-three days in the
week. Rose Marie Dashon was now full sixteen years of age,
though she scarcely looked it. The winter dresses, indeed, had
at last been lengthened to the full requirements of incipient
young ladyhood, but the raven ringlets,-tinged in the long ex-
tremities with chestnut reflections, still waved on the shoulders
and fell below the waist. To say the truth, Miss Rosemary was
no longer so anxious about braiding them up; her thin long face,
large dark eyes and majesty of brow did not suit a braid ; only
when half-hidden in flowing tresses could the spare but serene
lines of future beauty be discerned. She was very school-
girlish, too, in figure, and a trifle awkward in her long dresses.
Satisfied with their length, she cared nothing for their amplitude,
which together with a profound apathy on the subject of beaux,
caused a repulsion between Rose Dashon and her young ac-
quaintances. As for the boys-the young gentlemen, as they
wished to be considered-she was more than indifferent, actually
hostile. She laughed at their man-like ways, their premature
small vices, their foppish attire, and their ceremonious greetings
to herself and other girls of her age. When the latter stirred
abroad, they walked decorously along, mincing their steps, and
practising all the airs of grown women, especially if some lads
from sixteen to eighteen chanced to be observing them. If Rose
Dashon wanted to speak to any of her little favorites, or to

HOW   THE DASHONS EDUCATED ROSEMARY.          221
answer the nod of some matron friend, she would start bonnet
less, cross the street on a run very likely; if she walked out, it
was with a rapid, free and elastic step, straightforward to her
destiation. Nay, it was enough .to see her standing quietl
among a circle of girls of her age, to feel that shew
them but not of them. Older people were sensiblewas among
charm in all that, which escaped her contemporaries. The school
girls who laughed at Rose Dashon fcr her slim figure in contrast
with their own apparent diameters, and pitied her for having
beaux to talk about-." and she the richest heiress in New York
too !"-never elicited that grave parental admiration and al
tenderness with which men prematurely gray in the Wods
battle paused to address the owner of that slender unstarched
shape, that intelligent, unembarrassed, modest
And Rose was entirely content to answer such a on tenance,
about her grandparents, her friends Grace and Bessie Atheres
her progress in mathematics, music and drawing, her ridesher
new horse Arab, and how long she expected to coie  d er
masters before she entered "society."n
Among Rosemary's fastest friends and  greatest d
this period was Professor gacr.Hewsatst      a n irers at
thisperod  as PofesorCalcul. He was an intelligent scholar,
who believed that the chief end of man was te sd sche
exact sciences, a study which, he firmly maintained, formed the
sole occupation and felicity of the blessed in Heaven. Rose
used to laugh at this.ese
"I like to master a difficult problem, like the fut-
parabola, or the calculation of an eclipse" siunctions of a
Rose at her examination covered the blackboard with series
upon series of equations that nobody but Calcul r ees
understand, but which he regarded with intense d pretended to
like it best when it's over, though, and I hope for a more agree-
able occupation of my eternity than reducing infinite paraboree
to algebraic symbols, 4r calculating never-ending eclipses of
planets perhaps not yet created," and Rose laughed erily.
"Moy dear pupil," Calcul would answer, "you forget that
scoience--and there is no scoience but mathtyou  eternal
truth, and that even God himself has mysterious relations  .
number."yof

"


ROSEMARY.
"Ah" said Rose, "when we see Him as lie is, there will be
an end of calculations. He is most simple-UnitY itself. And
n Him we shall see all things, you know; so that logarithms
will be entirely useless in reducing the equations that perplex us
now," and Rose laughed again; for this scientific language was
as simple to her as how to dress a doll.
Tshen Calcul growled, and sometimes pinched her ear with
grim affection, for he dearly loved the child, his only pupil, as
he averred, that ever understood him or mathematics either.

CHAPTER V.
THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.
GRANDMAMMA was right :-she dreamed of the cloister.
Grand mamma was wrong :-there was no particular danger in
such a dream. It by no means followed that the child had a
true vocation that way : it was but the natural revery of a virgin
soul.
Rosemary was maturing like the slow spring of southern
climes, which creeps on step by step, instead of passing, as
in the north, by one leap from winter's nakedness to the luxuri-
ance of summer. Her intelligence had ripened while her sensi-
bility lay dormant; and the possession of knowledge beyond her
sex and years, with the accompanying consciousness of intellec-
tual superiority, united with a bodily vigor rare in these degen-
erate days, to inspire that proud love of independence and dis:
damn of the future yoke, which is undoubtedly the first impulse
of incontaminate youth. If that impulse is rarely felt, it is
because youth is seldom incontaminate.
An education singularly happy in its freedom from corrupt
influences, with plain moral instruction so much more wholesome
than the exaggerated delicacy of our artificial life, had combined
with the vigilant aid of heavenly powers to preserve the innocence
of Rosemary. That beautiful instinct-woman's guardian monitor,
girlhood's sweet-briery fence" and fragrant charm-no shadow
of an evil thought wilfully indulged had ever rendered it less
sensitive in the bosom of Rose Dashon. This being so, it is not
strange that a young Catholic, accustomed from childhood to
hear the praises of virginity, taught to invoke daily a Virgin
without spot as the most glorious, the most tender and the most
powerful of intercessors at the throne of Infinite Purity, should-
when the idea of woman's destiny first dawned upon her intelli-

4


224

ROSEMARY.

gence-timidly but aspiringly turn her thoughts to this state so
winning in natural beauty and hallowed by religion. Poetry as
well as faith painted in glowing colors the happiness of the holy
nun. The nun lived secluded from the world. Her life was
passed in divine meditation and worship of her Divine Spouse.
That was a Bridegroom for whom the purest maid in her inno-
cence could sigh unashamed. To rest in a chaste and narrow
cell, with no companion but the crucifix, to kneel daily in a
retired and silent convent-chapel safe behind its lofty grille ; to
move along the cloister walk, where clustering columns cast fre-
quent shadows on the tesselated pavement. an( roses bloom in
the fair open rectangle-of this Rosemary had heard from Mrs.
Atherton in talking of other times and other lands, and many a
fine picture in, her friend's collection had helped her fancy to
vivify the recital. Such things Rose dreamed of as others dream
of listening to lovers' vows in moonlit gardens. It was at least a
more delicate and less dangerous revery.. She imagined that
glorious chevelure-her luxuriant tresses--which now floated
unprofaned by any scissors beneath her very girdle, falling on the
marble floor of a convent chapel, an emblematic sacrifice of all
she then would offer to Him. Thence her elear and rapid
intellect, trained to trace all things to their conclusion, flew over
the intervening years to the final scene, the nun's death-bed---
that bed where at last the longing of the mystic spouse is turned
to fruition, where the joy of others ends and hers begins, her true
bride-bed, her nuptial couch of immortality. Could she stand in
His presence a virgin soul, and after the resurrection, in a virgin
body, what a crown of eternal glory would it be in the sight of
the angels!, All her sex's pride, all her young ambition (for
Rose was ambitious), all her native and untamed delicacy, took
this shape, and she sighed for the white amaranthine wreath of
the Virgins as other maidens sigh for the orange flowers and nup-
tial veil.
And yet there was one person of the opposite sex and of an
age near her own, for whom Rosemary manifested something like
a preference. This was her cousin Cornelius. He was doubly
her cousin, and she certainly regarded him as at least very nearly
a brother. Young Varick was a precocious-youth, as those who

THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.             225
have suffered from his malady often are. He had entered college at
thirteen and stood first in his class. When Roosevelt (as he liked
best to be called) took prize after prize over fifty others older than
himself, the family of course rung with his renown. His consti-
tution had become more vigorous as he grew older and gained
his height, which was below the middle stature. His limbs
grew stout, his frame became thick-set and muscular, the stoop
disappeared ; a very large head would still have given him
the appearance of a dwarf, had it not been for his peach-
like complexion, grand blue eyes and soft brown hair, which were
boyish traits. Perhaps to preserve this aspect of the case, he
wore a turn-over collar and round jacket, long after every other
fellow of his age had left them off.
During the year after the Athertons went to Washington the
cousins were thrown a great deal together. Roosevelt prepared
his mathematical lessons at his uncle Dashon's, in order to be
assisted occasionally by Rose. At least this was the ostensible
motive, though grandmamma Dashdn, whose dislike of the mother
extended to the son, assigned another, viz.: to make love to his
cousin.
"Cornelius," she would say (she always called him Come.
lius),--" is clever, All the Varicks are clever. But then he is
a dwarf. I don't wish to become the ancestress of a race of
Tom Thumbs.-do you understand ?"--with her most scornful
laugh. "And ie is only tvo months older than my grand-
daughter, and her cousin to boot: cousins should never marry-..
do you understand ?"
"I have not the most distant idea of marrying Roosey, grand.
mamma," would Rosemary reply, with a blush. "He, is only a
boy, you know, grandmamma, and his being my cousin is a
reason why I should love him."
" Ah, he is only a boy !" replied grandmamma, sagely. Her
hair was more silvery than six years ago, her wrinkles more nu.
merous, and her wisdom proportionably greater. "He is more
a man than you are a woman, child-.do you understand ?"
Grandmanma had also an offensive way o( calling him "the
general," in allusion to Gen. T. Thumb. Mrs. Isabel Varick too


226                    ROSEMARY.
pitied and snubbed her son before his cousin, all which excited
Rosemary's sympathies strongly in favor of Roosevelt.
One evening (it was in February) Cornelius and Rosemary
were sitting together in the blue drawing-room; each had a
slate, and there was a volume of French astronomical calcula-
tions between them. The problem, whatever it was, was diffi-
cult, and the equations extremely intricate. Rose worked at it
patiently. It was her lesson, not Roosevelt's, for at college they
did not pretend to reach the high and bewildering regions of
analysis whither the relentless Calcul had at last carried his
pupil. Roosevelt, however, affected to be studying tho same
problem-for it was not beyond his comprehension, though out
of his familiar line of study. One could easily see that it was
affectation, for ever and anon he would lay down his slate pencil
and lean upon his hand, as if lost.in thought: he was really
watching his companion, who had covered one whole side of her
slate with algebraic symbols, and was busily going over them to
detect, if possible, some error which had escaped her. The
absence of that lynx-eyed grandmamma, whose jealous vigilance
had been overcome by the temptation of a game of whist, was a
grand opportunity for the boy to gaze at his fellow-student instead
of confining his attention to his book and slate.
Young Varickwas in his senior year at college, and lacked
but a few months of graduation. This circumstance, and the
consideration of his sixteenth birthday, some months ago passed,
had induced him to adopt a manlier fashion in his apparel. A
dandy collar and showy neck-tie, an easy-fitting, large-sleeved
frock-coat, something between a shooting-jacket and a sack,
with a waistcoat and trowsers of distinguished pattern, such as
the fast yet discriminating youths of the time affected, formed
his new attire. His soft brown hair had been submitted to the
curling tongs. His fair cousin took no notice of the change, and
herself was youthfully arrayed: that is, in_ a brighter silk than
her seniors wore on ordinary occasions, and "low-necked and
short-sleeved."  One large white arm was bent to support her
thoughtful forehead ; the other rested on the table beside the
slate, managing the slate-pencil with a hand like Hebe's own.
A long narrow gold comb secured her black tresses behind and

THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.             227
kept them from falling over her ears and face, but thence they
s reamed in unconfined luxuriance, here covering her shole
and arm, there flowing downhaehrecoernghe shoulder
aod hermdre, tie f glo  er hback over the bright rose-silk
of her dress, till the full skirt threw off the lengthening ringlets.
A great arm-chair, carved, gilt, and cushioned with blue satin,
" I cannshinetwifindu sttn,-
held this youthful vision.
I cannot find this error,.Roosey" said the girl, slightly turn-
in c to him.wowa        Rosy"sithgrl
Cornelius, who was watching her as a cat watch
that is, as if he would have devoured her alive, bent forar to
look over her slate. It was then that    eng hardeto
whc 'esalonyd       b     e   htsomething- happened
whic we shall only describe by its effects. ; Rosemary gave a
little start, pushed back her chair, and glanced round the
room.
"There is nobody here," said her cousin.
"No!" said she, reddening, and her eye sparkling
"HIad there been ,   enngoadhrwyespaklngangrily,
"Ha terebenyowul not have dared to do it!"
A glass of water stood on the table; she drew  it!"
and with the air of a  ttd      ese rwIt towards her
hand withethe air o petted beauty washed the back of her
hand freely, and wiped it off with her handkecifcYo
. ought to be ashamed ,Roosy,      e hnderchief.--" you
"ouhaght to beaha, .osey --glancing at him angrily.
"You have a right to kiss me on both cheeks like a cousin,
before eerybmofdye o i occasion--I never objected, did I ?-..
Youheloboffe b     n .--but you have no right to do it
when nobody is by, and my hand too--what doyomenb
that, sir ?"--a little fiercely.            you mean by
"It is the first time, Rosy."
"It must be the last time, Roosey."
"I didn't think you would make such a fuss !" said
Roosevelt.  -
"You mistook my character, then," replied       -i
same resentful look.  "a  ,   n   rple   she, with the
samey resentu lookn drandmamna is right," she continued,
gravely, aind looking down at her hand t"you are no longer a
boy, cousin Roosevelt and I shall not treat you as one any
more."
"I am glad to hear it," cried Cornelius with spirit.-
"Very well, sir !"-A tear began to trickle.


228               ROSEMARY.

"I love you, Rose Dashon. That's the whole truth," pur-
sued Cornelius, proudly.
The girl gave him an open stare of mute astonishment.
"Yes, young as I am-boy as you think me-I love you
passionately !"
The first movement of the young girl was to half rise as if
about to run away, her second to laugh, though with embar-
rassment and a vivid blush.
"Oh, Roosey Varick ! what a ridiculous declaration ! You a
boy at college, and I school-girl!"
"A man at college, if you please !" said Roosevelt, indig-
nantly. "In a few months I shall be. a graduate. And you
don't go to school."
"I have masters and lessons, which is the same thing !"
"So has Louisa Varick, and yet she is engaged to be mar-
ried."
"How supremely inconsequent !_ Louisa is engaged to a
gentleman settled in business, Roosevelt, and you are only six-
teen years and some months old-you can't deny that ;-no
older than I-you cant deny that either."
"Yes-two months older."
"Fine difference ! One month and twenty-nine days. I can
tell you to the fraction of a minute presently"-taking her
slate again, with an amusing air of defiance.
"Oh, confound your mathematics !" cries Roosevelt. "I de--
test your eternal slake-fuls of figures."
"Youcan't do the problems-that's why,".retorted Rose.
" We ain't talking of problems, but of love," said the boy.
"Something you know still less about," answers the young
girl.
"It is you who know nothing about it," replies Roosevelt.
"I declare I never met a girl of your age who was such a
perfect simpleton in such matters as ybu are, and I will leave it
to anybody."
"Well, I don't wish to know any more than I do-that's ona
comfort!" cries the young lady with spirit. "I have something
more important to think of just now-Dieu merci ! and you,
too, Roosey. You had better attend to your college lessons, and

THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOfED.            229
leave your cousin Rose to her eternal slate-fuls of figures. I
am not a flirt at all events," added she gravely, "and nobody
shall ever say that I flirted with you or trifled wi  yo y
tions-which would oni e  t   yur rfe with your affee-
y be to please my own vanity, if I did it.
Heaven knows I am heart-whole myself. So, siryou
won't get our lessons tooth  y more after this, if you please."
"0 Ii, Rose !" said the youth, starting. "That would be too
cruel."
"If you really feel as you say, it is kind."
"If? Now, you are not only cruel but insulting, Rosemary."
"I don't mean it, Roosevelt," said Rosemary; moemary.
"You probably deceive Yoursel", Roo ,sey  No    gety,
love me. Don't I love you too?  You mistake this brother-and
sisterly affection for something else, which you have read about
in novels, but which y op certainly do not understand.  o
suld youwad as old as you, and everybody says that girls
are more forward than boys, and I have read a great deal more
mathematics than you, aid Iknow nothing about it. It is the
greatest mystery in the world tome what the girls are  s  the
about beaux for, and always forever talking ofing engazy
and married. I believe they want to be women, to dress in the
height of fashion and go where they like-th o ressoon the
I don't mean to trouble  y eeth1ik-te more fools they.
I dn'tmea totroblemyread with such nonsense till I am
out of my teens at least.  You sare just like them ti
That's why you have gone ando      utlk     hm Roosey.
'so w     uh  e gone and got that new coat. I liked you
ever so much better in your blue roundabout."
Roosevelt's mortification was intense. The last was the fin..
rising stroke, and, fairly 'convinced him that his passion was un-
returned, for nothing In long robes, could possible  f
e n jacket and trousers. Fairly driven to the wall, he had
recourse to an argument very humiliating to a lover at any age-.
authority.                                      n   g-.
"You may say what you like, Rosy," h           -
coolness :--"itisno          ,    ye replied, with great
es     bit is not your whims or mine that will decide this
question between you and me at last. Uncle Roosevelt will
have  ont   to me  and so will my mother. I know aunt
Dashon don't like me, but my mother says she knows how to shut
pretty quick; and if you don't marry me you will


THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.

lose all your fine fortune, and that's why I wanted you to love
me beforehand, if possible."
"Will grandpapa give his money to you, Roosey, in case I
refuse to marry you ?" asked Rosenary, smiling, but not without
a certain curiosity and interest.
"My mother says so positively-but remember that I tell it
you in confidence :-honor bright, Rosy !"
"You may make perfectly sure of the fortune, then, Roosey,'
s'nswered the girl, with a laugh. "I won't tell any body either.'
"You despise me, Rose Dashon, because I am not quite so tall
as others !" said the youth, stifling a sob. "For all that-if
you must know the truth-your father was engaged to my
mother, and if he had kept his word, I should be your grand.
papa's heir this minute."
"I suppose your mother told you that too ?"
"She did."
"It is false that I despise you on account of your height or
for any other reason, Roosey."
"You act like it."
"You are young enough to grow taller," said the girl, with a
smile on her lip and a tear in her eye.
"I am almost as tall now as Mr. Douglas, who, my father.
thinks, will be President."
"That's right, Roosey ! Perhaps you will be President-who
knows?   The Emperor was quite short too-you know the
army called him the 'little corporal,'" said Rose, laughing.
"Why, then, are you so set against me, Rosemaiy ?  Tell me
that."
The young girl mused ; her great dark eyes fastened on him
mysteriously ; her perfect brow knitted into a meditative inten-
sity; she flung her long curls back over her shoulders with one
hand ; she looked like a young queen.
"Cornelius !" she said, solemnly.
"Rosemary ?"
"You have no right to know that I have ever thought of
anything but my lessons, but perhaps if you think so, you won't
be cured of this fancy so soon. Now, then, because I do love

you as a brother, and wish you to be a brother to me always, I
will tell you all my heart."
"Rose !" said the boy, rising and coming a little nearer to her,
you're a trump, I vow."
"I have thought about marriage a great deal," pursued the
girl, with. a bigltt blush. "How could I help it, Roosey'
Grandmamma often speaks to me of it, so does Louise, and
sometimes even Mrs. Atherton used. Then aunt Varick wants
me to marry her son, our cousin, who is already a commander
in the navy, you know, and a MAN, loosey; ann your mother---
that's no secret to me either-has set her heart on getting me or
my fortune for you one of these days. Now Roosevelt, don't be
pained by what I shall say. Nothing will induce me to marry any
cousin, or any one named Varick, or Dashon, or both. Least of
all will I ever marry you, Cornelius. If your mother expects it
she is mistaken. In one word, I have been brought up from
infancy to believe that the Varicks killed and defamed my
mother ; your mother had a principal hand in it; I don't say that
any of them meant it, Roosey; I forgive them all; but as for
marrying one of their sons--as for calling one of them MOTHER !"
--she sprang to her feet and confronted the lad with a flashing eye
-her fairy foot fairly stamped with the determination that her
whole figure breathed-" I WILL DIE FIRsT !"
As we have already mentioned in a former chapter, the mantel-
apiece of this roon was Opposite a window that looked on the
avenue. In the day-time a person seated .at the table in the
centre of the apartment, by glancing in the huge mirror that
Sgmantel, could see a second-story window of the
ohuse opposite reflected with its beautiful stone columns and
massive balcony. Consequently at night, when the room was
bristy ilumined, and only the lower part of the shutter closed,
as the thick curtains cut off the chandelier,apers a
atte aforesaid window of the hpsostine
e a       i         of thhouse opposite could rigorously
see inthe mirror what was going on at the table. With a glass
-f thefy were curious--they could discern even the expression
of the faces aNo one at grandmamma Dashon's was aware of
thipica a act  t  it was not unknown to a lady to whose
Private apartmclts the window in question  eogd  n    h

230

ROSEMARY.

0

231


TfE :ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.

way no other than the mother of Roosey and the cousin of
Rosemary, Mrs. George Varick.
Before Roosevelt Varick could reply to Rosemary's startling
declaration, the front door-bell rang decisively. This by no
means indicated, as it would indicate in England, a servant or a
parcel; for knockers are not used in Ameiica; they went out
with other colonial customs when the old gentry gave way to our
spick and span bran-new aristocracy, which lives in brown-stone
houses and has bells to its doors. Consequently, in a minute's
time some one was admitted, a deep voice was heard inquiring,
another minute passed while the visitor was doubtless laying
aside his overcoat, the door of the drawing-room was thrown
open and Mr. Atherton entered. Rosemary, who (school-girl-
like) had resumed her seat at the table and drawn her book
and slate towards her, sprang up joyfully.
"Oh, Mr. Atherton! How glad I am to see you !-when did
you leave Washington ?-how is your wife 1-Where are Grace
and Bessie ?"-These questions were mingled with about as many
kisses, given and returned, in the French manner, the young
lady offering first one, then the other cheek.-" My cousin
Roosevelt Varick-you remember --Grandpapa and grand.-
mamma are both out at a little whist party-I will send for
them."
A certain gravity with which men of mature years are apt to
meet young persons whom they have known as children, disap-
peared from Mr, Atherton's countenance before the sunshine of
this cordial welcome. He took the chair she offered-her own
-while Rosemary drew another and lighter one beside it, and
placed her hand confidentially on its carved elbow. He had a
little note for her from Grace, which she took eagerly, begged
permission, broke open and read. The short session would soon
be over, and they were all coming to New York immediately.
Possibly papa might be recalled by an odious extra-session, and
be kept in Washington till August.
"Oh, how tiresome !" says Rosemary. "If I were you, sir, I
would resign my seat, unless the people would make me em-
peror, and then I would change the seat of government to New
York. Washington is quite a ridiculous place, I think. Is it so

dreadfully dusty as Grace writes? What a dea
Bessie's !"-kissing the signatures f'ondIyear little postscript of
you have no idea how dull I find'it in their absence, rt
- Mrs. Atilerton's! '                              and dear
"Another proof," said Mr. Atherton, smiling, and soliloquiz-
ing, "of the wisdom  of our arrangeme   fr isoat'in oquiz-
gislature m a petty town. I can take my family with me, but
I cannot take society and its great inatery  nor eve, but
charming little friend as you."s, nor even such a
"I declare you are growing gray in WashingtonMr. Father
ton. Do see the white hairs! Oh, fie! whnon,    ther    -
them out ?"-Wihot      or aobh         y don't the girls pull
the  ou ?"without more ado she set herselftwokan
pulled out one or two that silvered the rising statesman's brown
locks.
" They will come in spite of you, Roeay     Buyuar
not a grain older, I see, than when we parted last-ofual fifteen
months ago. It is very beautiful."
"What is beautiful ?--My curls do
pose Grae begins to braid her hai-o you mean,essh? srwnup-
radhrhir--d oes she ? Has heo
as much as I have 2"gr
"More in proportion. She is nel
"Grace is very pretty, I suppose y as tall as you."
"Very !" said her father, with emphasis
"Of course she doesn't go into society at thirteen ?"
Scarcely--but dreams of balls (and beaux
her lessons."                              I'm afraid) over
"Oh, those everlasting beaux !"--.lg        ay      T
suddienle -remembrn    ercu'-auging petulantly. Then
sudeulremmbering her cousin, whose very exsecsh
had forgotten, she turned quicsin   d caught histence she
jealousyragie andidspairanddRcaught his dance of
jeluy, rage and despair,an Rosemr  eolce
self had received a declaration   ry recollected that she her-.
sel hadrcie     dca'to     of love that very evening. It
would not do for her to laugh at other girls for haveaux  t
that. So a kind of communicated consess having beaux after
by induction--madeehrcushshiousness--an. electricity
by lhduction......made her push her chair a littlebakfo Mr
Atherton's. She glanced shyl e  liraltl      ack from Mr.
mark these efeg     syly firstat one, then at the other, to
makteeffect. Roosevelt's wrath was partiall  pesd   h
astute Atherton smiled.wapa              llyappeased. The
".Now go the mathematicsRe"
s Rose '2" he Continued. "You

232               n O S 1 i Al r.

233


234                    ROSEMARY.
and Roosevelt are still fellow-students I see. Any more prizes,
Varick 3"
"We don't have prizes senior year," said young Varick,
stiffly.
"Well, I never was at Columbia, you know. You have no
more honors, then, to hope for till commencement ? Will you
take the first salutatory, Varick ?"'
"I shouldn't like to say so. There is more than one man
who thinks his chance as good as mine."
"You ought to beat tnem all to nothing in mathematics,"
said Mr. Atherton, smiling and glancing at Rosemary."
Mathematics don't count so high as classics with us," said
Varick, thawing before Mr. Atherton's interest in his collego
ambition.            t.
"Professor A-    gives the tone, I suppose."
"Then there's a fellow who has been through a Jesuit col-
lege, and joined our class Junior year to strike for the honors,
and is past twenty-"
*"And is a better mathematician than you, Roosey-why don't
you out with it like a man?" said Rosemary, laughing.
" Well, he can't hold a candle to you, Rose-that's what I
tell 0 Morra, that I have a cousin at home -"
In petticoats," said Rosemary, with a gay smile.
"No, I don't say that; but a young lady, I tell him, who can
beat him at the blackboard any day."
" Is that Cabal O'Mbrra's son ?" asked Atherton.
"The same-a splendid fellow, I must say," answered Varick,
generously. "He knows more Latin than any man in our class,
but I beat him in Greek."
" Ah, the Jesuits are not Greeks but Romans !" said Mr.
Atherton, laughing.
"I say it isn't fair a man should take the Greek salutatory, who
didn't learn Latin at Columbia. Greek ought to be the test in
such a case. If O'Morra gets marked above me in the trage-
dies, I'll Own beat," said Varick.
Here a carriage was heard to stop, and Rosemary, saying
quietly-" That's grandpapa !"-ran out to meet them. Mr.

THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.      235

and Mrs. Dashon presently entered, the former leaning on his
granddaughter's arm and walking slowly.
In the conversation that ensued, justice was done to the social
gossip of Washington for the lady, and to the political compli-
cations for the gentleman. The young people listened, which
young people now very seldom do. The regular thing would
have been for Roosevelt and Rosemary to get into a corner and
whisper, and laugh together, in short to carry on a flirtation;
or perhaps their seniors might be obliging enough to vacate the
drawing-room and take the library or dining-room for their
own humdrum conversation. This is the excellent rule of some
families. The Dashons had not yet adopted it. On the con-
trary, had Miss Dashon presumed to flirt with anybody, or to
make herself otherwise more conspicuous than became her
years, she would have been sent to bed. Grandmamma was
naturally more strict with a girl; besides which, the training
of Rosemary had been done to her hand, and with all her
spirit the child was as obedient as high principle and early
habit can well make a human being.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Atherton," said grandmamma, at
last, when the general topics had been run through. "I want
to talk to you about Rose. She is a great deal too. religious, do
you understand V"
"Because since Lent began I go to church every morning,
Mr. Atherton," said the young lady.
" Before breakfast--do you understand ?" says grandmamma.
"She goes to church. I say, every morning, before breakfast,
and fasts three days in the week!'
I merely abstain, grandmamma--I never fasted since I was
born."
"You don't eat meat, child,-it is the same thing. And what
is worse, Mr. Atherton, although I have agreed that she may go
to Mass every morning, and every evening too if she likes on
condition that she does not alter her diet, she is so infatuated in
her own way that she offers to give up going to church if I for-
bid it, but absolutely refuses to obey me in the other particular,
Which is much nore important to her health. A walk before


286               ROSEMARY.

breakfast I consider an advantage to any young person-do you
understand ? but fish three times a week ! !"
Atherton laughed heartily.
"You know, grandmamma, that I have always abstained from
meat on the regular days since I was six years old."
"Before which you never ate any at all, child. That was
well enough when you were a little girl-but at your age it is
different. You require beef, mutton, steaks, cutlets, roast-tur-
key, partridge, venison-a little every day. But no! Made.
moiselle has a terribly obstinate will-do you understand? She
is immoveable as a rock. So on Wednesday, Friday and Sat-
urday, we are obliged to have turtle-soup, oysters, salmon (in
cans, you know, Mr. Atherton), and rock-fish, which grandpapa
is so indulgent as to have sent on from Baltimore in ice-do
you understand '? I tell him he spoils the child. She is grow-
ing thin-"
"Oh, grandmamma! I am plump as a partridge !"-And she
held out gaily her rounded arms,
"And losing her color---"
The girl's cheek was bright at the moment as a new-blown
rose.
".And in short, my opinion is that made-moi-selle thinks her-
self nearly a saint already ! I am expecting every day to hear
that she is going to take the veil-do you understand? Now
what shall we do, Mr. Atherton ?"
"Send her to a convent-school for a year or two," said the
statesman.
"A capital idea !" cried grandmamma. "To dissipate the
illusions of her imagination-do you understand ?"
"Send the child away to school, my dear !" said grandpapa,
reproachfully.
"It is better to be deprived of her society for a year ortwo,
than to lose her entirely," replied grandmamma.
"Mr. Atherton rose and took leave of Mr. and Mrs. Dashon
and shook hands cordially with Varick: then the young girl,
who hung back till he had taken leave of the rest, extended both
her hands.

THE ROSE BEFORE IT BLOOMED.              237
"Kiss Grace and Bessie for me, sir,"
"Naturally I must first receive the kisses from
mary."                                        you, Rose-
" Certainly, sir,"-.with a sidelong glance at R
offering her cheek with filial franknessRoosevelt, but
"God bless you, my dear child," said the man of the world,
in a grave and significant tone of kindness  "Itno the frst
time by many hundreds, but for aught I know it may be the
last,"-turning to her grandparents
"Heaven forbid it should be the last !" said Rosemary, with
a merry laugh.
"Rose !" cried hey grandmother, "Fie !"
"Be content," said Atherton, with one of his inscrutable
smiles. "She will be as chary of such favors      s
prodgalnow''  aschar ofsuc faorsone day, as she is
prodigal now."
Roosevelt Varick went away in the midst
even bidding his cousin good-night; and when Mr. Atherton
stood on the steps, the boy was already out of sight and
hearing.                                     fsih     n
Rosemary, meanwhile, was holding discussion with her
grandmoh on the precise value of her kisses, and the parti-
cular claim of Mr. Atherton to rcev sa ay, of theCountrs
of ffctin s se hou  ntoreceive as many of those counters
of affection as she thought fit to bestow onhm
"Mr. Atherton is a kindofor n.himt.
"Mr.oAtenc i akind of papa to me," said Rosemary.
"Nonsense, child ! If he Were 'not marrid  ewol eo
a very suitable age for your husband rid,heWould be of
"Grace's father ! Oh, grandmamma! "
" He is scarcely eight and thirty," said grandmamma,"and
you are in your seventeenth year. Dependuponitma, y dear,
Mrs. Atherton would have ayrigtt bejealoupon at m betr,
right than Cornelius Varicka-dh ou bersad  m    better
Theyoung lady had undergone so many trying emotions that
evnn that her nervous system was at lastafetdangrd.
mamma's reproof being  yte-asa ls affected, and grand-
ca, sheprof ein teaof a nature to cause very keen mortifi-
cation, she burst into tears. Perhaps  h  a  esnt    ep
for her childhood wa  r.Praps she had reason to weep,
to her chilhod ewas gone as in a moment.  uae thei
to etie se ebraedher grandmother as usual, then with


238                    ROSEMARY.
comical timidity her grandpapa (as if she feared that it might
not be thought quite correct), who laughed quietly-grandlapa
did He thought it was all foolish, but wonud not interfere.
Rosemary was at sea-on the ocean of womanly experience-
ss or pilot, and all her mathematics did not help
her to ascertain her moral latitude and longitude ; she could
only let herself drift with the wind andthe current, not know-
ing whither she was carried, to what mysterious mid-ocean or
what dangerous lee-shore.

CHAPTER VI.
MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.
AT the ever-memorable battle of Balaklava, Gen. Romarin,
attached to the stat-major of the Army of the East, where his
knowledge of English made him a necessity of the first order,
was hit by a Russian bullet. His life was saved by the circum-
stance that the ball impinged exactly upon a large gold medal
of the Immaculate Conception sent him by his granddaughter,
and which, at her earnest prayer, he wore during the campaign.
The old soldier of the empire was a bit of a philosophe, as we
have intimated ; he attached small faith to the miraculous
medal, but anything that his grandchild asked he was ready to
do if possible, and medal or no medal, it could do no harm (he
argued) to a veteran in the fire of Russian batteries that a pure
young girl across the seas lifted her daily prayer to Heaven for
his safety. The Emperor covered the hole of the bull t in the
old officer's uniform with the grand cross of the Legion of
Honor. Romarin's star was in the ascendant: it was a war of
engineers, and his mathematical head was of more value than
the dash of the African generals. Grandmamma Dashon was
never weary of dilating on this subject to her visitors. The
name of Romarin became a household word with the Dashons.
It was curious and instructive to see how proud they were of a
connection of which they had once been ashamed.
"My granddaughter has just had a lettter from her grandpapa
Romarin," Mrs. Dashon would say, "dated from the Camp before
Sebastopol. Gen. Romarin, you know, is attached to the stat-
major of the Army of the East. My son--you remember-.
married the only daughter of General Romarin. He says that
the Russians keep up an incessant fire on the advanced posts of
the allies, and that he does not think the place can be carried by


240                    ROSEMARY.
a coup de main. Do you understand ? Gen. Ro-ma-rin thinks
that a coup-de-main is impracticable ! That signifies that the
allies must make it a regular siege. It may cost them a year's
hard work.   What a war !   But Gen., Romarin's life is safe
amid the fire of the Russians-do you understand I My grand-
daughter has sent him a miraculous medal, which he wears, to
please her, constantly on his breast, and it is a fact that he was
hit there by a bullet at Balaklava, while the French staff were
gazing with their mouths open"--with her shortest laugh-" at
the charge of the famous six hundred! That's a curious coin-
cidence, is it not ? However, the Emperor has sent him the
grand cross-that's a comfort. Well, it is a fine thing for our
little girl, this distinction of her maternal grandfather. My son
also was a brave man, and died fighting for France."
Grandmamma Dashon was persuaded that the Emperor would
eventually make Gen. Romarin a marshal and a duke; it even
occurred to her that if (which Heaven forbid) the gout should
finally carry off poor Mr. Dashon, she might after all marry her
first love, and shine in the new court of France as duchess of
Tchernaya or some other euphonious title taken from the Turk-
ish wars. As for Rosemary, her plan was to keep the child as
much as possible secluded from American society, to take her
to Paris as soon as peace was concluded, and there marry her to
a duke at the very least. The granddaughter of Gen. (perhaps
Mardchal) Romarin, sprung from the Flordal, decayed noblesse
of a sufficiently high and pure descent, and a wealthy heiress
above all :-for what was ancient blood or imperialist illustra-
tion, compared with the millions of grandpapa Dashon ? Trans-
late them into francs, and the sum was enormous. An heiress
ticketed with that amount would command universal attention
in any court of Christendom (if that term can be any longer
employed.)
Grandpapa Dashon did not sympathize with his wife's dreams.
He was fonder of their grandchild, whom he did not care to
spare for any grand European marriage, nor yet to sink his
name and fortune in refurbishing the splendor of some great
family who would always be ashamed of the benefit. Mr.
Dashon was ambitious of founding a great American family.

MATRIMONY IN THE 'HORIZON.

His plan was that whoever married Rosemary should take the
name of Dashoni, and he designed so to leave his fortune that
the bulk of it would ultimately devolve unimpaired,  ay
immensely augmented, on her eldest son. His first candidate
was Capt. Varick, and when the hasty marriage of that impa-
tt sailor with a Miss Laura Somebody, sister of the keeper
of a boarding-house, where he was spending a few weeks ashore
isappoimted this expectation, he turned his eyes favorably upon
his. grand-nephew Cornelius, named after him by the long-
sighted parents, and the only male creature except himself, in
whm flowed any of the blood of the Dashons. The ingenious
EOfise"gntlemaowho then kept what he called a "Heraldry
Office" in New York, had investigated Mr. aho'yedge
and discovered that h, a  netiae      "r Dashon's pedigree
aod discovee was descended from the Norman family
of d'Ashon, who possessed the title and barony of Ashon from the
conquest till the reign of Henry VI., when they Were all exter-
thinated in the wars of the Roses. What was more certain was
that Mr. Dashon's father was the son of a New England sea-
captain, andmseta considerable property in the cod-
fisheries and set up his son as an India merchant: in the great
house of Roosevelt and Varick, after the war of the Revolution
was over; so that the family had a respectable commercial
ancestry of three generations, terminating in a colossal fortune
built up, after signal reverses, by Roosevelt Dashon himself
Younghrnelius Roosevelt. Dashon Varick, we repeat, by his
mother partook of this honorable family's blood, and since the
egregious folly of his cousin the captain, he was the matri..
onthir cdine oftheewhole Varick connection for the hand
of their cousin, the heiress
Roosevelt had graduated at seventeen With much distinction
andoubtedyal ng, aw with a diligence that promised, with his
undoubted talent, a brilliant success. -is -person was not im-
posing; his beautiful cousin overtopped him by half her head.
lines, which aditedas; yet five feet, one inch and some
a respectable height  boot converted into two inches, was
on Comec eent above the French army regulation; and
onlCommencement Day, robed in the flowing scholar's gown
n a       ory oration which proclaimed him one of the
11

.24


242

ROSEMARY*

MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.

first three in his class, his noble head and intellectual counte-
nance caused this slight personal disadvantage to be forgotten.
his cousin was there, looking her prettiest, and joined enthusi.
astically in the plaudits which i ewartied his SOCCeSS. G ai mdIapa
used to take advantage of the frequent occasions aff ried by
his visits to Rosemary, which he made regularly every Thurs-
day, and duriing the vacations, to speak to her of her cousin in
terms of praise; and the gipsy, who had as fine a tact in these
matters as a kitten in chasing a spool of cotton on the carpet,
understood grand papa's wishes perfectly.
There was one element which none of these worthy people
took into their calculation, and that was the possible views and
certain influence of grandpapa Romarin. The old soldier,
es-teacher, ex-artist, had his own ideas about Rosemary's
future, and knowing the rapid maturity of American girls,
deemed it not unadvisable to steal a march on her possible
American lovers or suitors. In France these matters are ar-
ranged between the parents of the young people. Romarin's
thoughts were naturally directed to the illustrations of the
empire for a suitable parti. He was quite aware that if his
grandchild's future husband was to be French, he must be a
person of rank: for nothing else would reconcile the other
grandpapa to the choice, and the other grandpapa's fortune was
not to be forfeited. But in spite of his impel ialist predilections,
his family connections led him in a family affair to the old fan-
bourg. The Marquis de Flordal, first cousin of Madame Rora-
rin (Rosemary's maternal grandmother), was still living in Paris,
and had a grandson in the army, the Vicomnte de Floi al, the last
male scion of the house into which Romarin had mar ied. They
were poor as church mice, without being so devout. The arrival
of Capt. Romnarin, widower of their late cousin, was an event
almost as important to this decayed house as tie revolution of
'48. The Abbe de Floreal, brother of the mar quis, called on
Capt. Romarin, soon after the election of Louis Napoleon to the
Presidency. After the coup d'itat the maiquis himself put his
legitimist and aristocratic dignity in his pocket, and paid a visit
to General de Romarin. By and by, one took informations in
the family Flordal touching the descendants of their rising rela-

tive. One learned with tremulous satisfaction that his only
representative was a granddaughter whowas               n
incredible heiress. One inquired heraw her education and
learned with a sense of Providential guidance , ha euaing
brought up under the eye an bit    idne, that she was being
brought ucplisdethe eyand withthe children of the beautiful
and accomplished Madame Atherton, so elilnw      y l   h
families of the oldi faubour tn  s'  al known by all the
famlie o th od fuburg, to some of whom she was nearly
allied. "That answers for her sufficiently," s he marquisrt
the abb6. In fine, after man  f       ,said the marquis to
to propoe In fineralde Rmy a family council, it was resolved
to propose to General de Romarin a matrimonial aline'ewe
his granddaughter and their ain aatrioma alliance between
the Fgrndaugcoesisd ther grandson. The whole property of
the Flom'6als consisted of a vast, half-ruinedams  nnai
able hotel in the faubou avatha'  -umd, almost unin~habit..
urg St. Germain, which bore their name;
of an older and totally ruined chateau near the Provencalve;
lage of the same name, which chateau ha be Prned t     it-
groud in179  andeauhad been burned to the
ground in 1792, and never rebuilt;" and of abu"00lve
rente in the public securitiesreult'ndo about 2,000 livres
rene n te ublc  ecuitesof France. The problem how the
Floral lived on this magnificent rental   erlmerocan
money, would have taxed the arithmetical aeye, Amry
It is true that M. l'abb6 de Flor6ag cost themnius of Rosemary,
modest appointments as priest of a suburban     g, forted
him and furnished his charities. The grandson and heir ab-
sorbed 200 francs ($40) a year, in addition   iay  hei ma-
quis and marquise with two servants, lived is pay: the mar-
One conceives that it was not insplendor. Thus what wonder
if they condescended to overlook   borgeois   a  t wonder
blood which mingletinso arourgeois and republican
blod wichmingled in so large proportions in the veins o  hi
distant relative, Mile. Rose Marie Daons  te    wof, their
ahvays spelled it" '        shon whchsh . y the way, they
alay sele  it " d'Ashon," which shows that even a whte
-haired emigre marquis of four-scoremy e ta snb a white-
others.                            may be a snob as well as
Romarin at first lent a deaf ear to this flat
reply to which he alleged the recess    nting t    oAmri
can relatives of his grandchild  and theressile matte   Ae
dropped, had he not encountered his ere  kinmat   Subas-
topol, where the condescension and  oung p msan   a  on
Romari's sid.  Thenoun t-   e patronage were all on
The daRoarin me you vicomte was indubitably brave.
Th dyRmarin made his acquaintance Floreal wasi    og

243


244       -           ROSEMARY.
bivouac, dining on the ground, and drinking his coffee and
thimble-full of cognac with such a soldier-like carelessness and
good humor, that Romarin's military heart was won. Floral
was liked by his equals, esteemed by his superiors, and a pet
with the rank and file. He had the gay, chivalrous courage of
the French noble in its perfection, and though a noble he had
learned as a private the equality of a camp. Romaiin reflected
that afterall in a French husband his granddaughter might do
worse. The young man could certainly make her a vicomtesse,
and one day a marquise ; she cpuld restore the grandeur of the-
Flordals. After all, they were the kindred of his beloved wife,
and although at one time they had not ti eated either her or him
too well, he liked a noble revenge. So on the whole be deter-
mined to write to Mr. Dashon and inform him of the proposal
which had been made.
"You will comprehend," he wrote, "that with the Floreal the
young lady's expected fortune is a principal consideration.
They are among the poorest of our impoverished nobility: it is
their only fault. Their blood is of the most ancient in the
kingdom or empire of France; they are allied to the noblest
houses. They want but fortune, of which our granddaughter
will have enough. The young vicomte, moreover, is a brave
fellow, very amiable, very handsome, and has not vices. Can
one well ask more ' I await a reply from you before answer-
ing definitely the Floreal."
One of the bombs with which the allies were so freely shelling
Sebastopol, had it plumped down in grandpapa Dashon's urban
garden, would not have caused the excitement this letter did.
Grandmammfa was in raptures, yet thought Rosemary could do
better.  Grandpapa was hostile, yet feared that opposition
would only league Mrs. Dashon and.Gen. Romarin together to
accomplish the project. The Varicks were thunderstruck at
the audacity of theFrench, and that light and hardy dash so
chaiacteIistic, which boded the capture of the fortress.  In
the family councils no two persons were of the same opi-
nion and at last grandpapa made a bold move by proposing
that as Rose was nearly eighteen, and at home, she should be

MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.
consulted on the subject.  Grandpapa Romarin's lett
accordingly submitted to her inspection.
This is not a subject in regard to which I can have wishes of
my own, said the young lady with a suitable blush. "What.
ever you and my grandpapa Romarin decide, I will abide by."
It was an answer which French parents would have tak
a matter of course ; Rosemary made it, as she would as
owed at an introduction, because it was the rule. She had
been told so a hundred times bygrandpapa Romarin and Lo
and Mirs. Atherton had assured her it was all right. Nothing was
more deeply ingrained in her way of thinking than the indeli-
cacy of a young Woman's expressing a preference on the subject
of matrimony.  Grandpapa and grandmamma Dashos were
sorely perplexed by this simplicity.
As we have already implied, they had taken Mr. Athero's
shrewd advice by sending their granddaughter to finisher
education at-the Academy of the Sacred Heart. Rosemary did
not learn much mathematics at that singularly beautiful s
once the seat of the Lorillards-for at her entrance he
more than the accomplished Religious who taught that brnch
of study; she needed no further instruction in French, which
the strong point of the school; even in music she could do little
but practise under careful supervision and perfect herself as
lave done at home; but the ladies discover
she had a remarkable voice, they made her cultiscovered that
became the pride of the school; as she had an aptitude forilan-
guages, she willingly added Spanish, German, and Italiran--
her list; and the Professor of history found her a atIian to
diligent pupil. After nearly two years, instead of wishing to
return home and enter society, she was anxious t remaig to
the conclusion of the current session. Yet with all her stu-
dious diligence, the child had contrived to pick u erasty
of knowledge on subjects not laid down in the course andain
regard to which a society of young girls are to eachour anh
most adroit and successful of teachers ; and when summoned  he
gn     s   is ad        e   presentation of the sensible
Superior, she displayed at once anaprctinonebnet

I


246                   ROSEMARY.
and decided opinions on the subject of silks, that convinced her
grandmother of the sagacity of Mr. Atherton.
"A young lady who is so positive about the trimming of her
new bonnet, and tries on a dozen of Madame Ruban's chefs
d'cuvre before she can be suited, is not likely to take the
veil very soon," said grandmamma, laughing. "And she may
pin her shawl as high in the throat as she chooses, or let her
mailtie fall ever so reservedly, as she trips along from the car-
riage to the shop-door-as if anybody could overlook the testi-
mony of that charming carriage of the shoulders or that bound-
ing step-do you understand ? Ah, 'tis a. finished coquette, my
elegant granddaughter, with all her maidenly shyness, si pleine
defiert."-The old lady sighed.-" I was a good deal like her
at her age, though never half so handsome, you understand."
In fine, Mr. Dashon wrote to Gen. Romarin the following
reply :
"NEW YORK, Dec. 5, 1854.
"DEAR SIR,
"Your favor of the 6th October is at hand, and
the contents noted. Mrs. Dashon and myself have considered
the proposal therein made, and have taken the liberty of show-
ing the letter to our granddaughter. As she refers the matter
entirely to us and to yourself, we have concluded to say that if
the young Vicomte de Flordal should visit the United States, he
.  ilhgve every facility, so far as depends on us, for making the
acquaintance of Miss Dashon and winning her affections. On his
success in the last-mentioned all further action must depend.
"Very sincerely,
f"Your friend and ser't,
"C. ROOSEVELT DASHON.
"To Gen. LoUIS DE ROMARIN,
"Sebastopol."
The Dashons hit upon this answer as one that did not compro-
maise them at all and which left them a future liberty of accept-
ing or rejecting the proposition of the Flordals. About three
months, it was supposed, must elapse before a reply could be
received, and probably as many more before the young man
could arrive in the United States, if the war should even permit
him to come at all. Consequently the operators at home would

MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.              247
have a large margin to forestall the market, as Mr. Dash
served. Rosemary, it was decided, should go into  o
winter ; it is the auction-Lock fth  u oit society this
winer;it s te actin~blok of the superior classes, where
the young and beautiful whites of the North  eo sesae
to the iiglhet bidder. Mr. Dashon insisted ex osed to sale
offered at home,' before she was taken abroad to dispose of; the
home market, in his opinion, being always the best.  o ; the
buy ers prepared: a lively competition was certain, when as i
this case an immense property was to o for  aen, wheniai n
every unmarried gentleman with browner er andethi'ske
considered himself as sure of the prize  veand   mw  rs
considered that to break a dozen hearts or ih  wngrandmama
young lady no harm as a prelude to the reates Ewoue  other
paign. In the meantime this young vicomte was a bird in the
hand. One might do worse than that. But reflecting thus,
grand mamma began to understand Rosemary bette.
"Wha shuldshehave answered, but what she did? The little
puss (Rosemary was five foot five) newhat she  wa abot
She wasn't going to refuse a handsome young vicomte at the
-r  Who knows? And if she wanted the pleasure of
seer ing  i nearer, what could she say but that she referred
likerthei eg to the decson of her grandparents ? If she don't
like the fellow, she will find a way of letting it be known, I war-
rant you. One munt have been a girl one's self, to divin the
secret of a girl's proceedings--do you understand ?"
However, the grand epoch of Miss Dashon's apearanc-
society was reserved for a ball which Mrs. Dashon proposed
give early in January, consequently when the eighteenth-irth
day had fully passed. Till then she accepted none but quiet
still ting    s, and few of those, on the pretext that she was -
ing lessons. This was so far true that theyoung lady
practised her music two hours a day with a professor at her
elbow, an ugly married man (Madam remembered Roearir), and
read the English Poets three times a week with a limarman
old enough to be her father,w and who was also married. It was
a lymxeyed grs vigilant, indeed, as to excite the
suspicion, that she had once needed watching herself.
Since Miss Dashon had left school, she had resumed her cor-

,t
.-,  _,


248               ROSEMARY.

respondence with her friend Grace Atherton, who bad completed
her fifteenth year and wrote Rosemary very long and beautiful
letters, and a specimen of the latter's style of reply will at this
juncture throw some light on our narrative. The letter seems to
have been written about Christmas, for the date, originally placed
at the end, has been torn off.
"My DEAREST GRACE,
"Your long interesting letter (and so fll
of sympathy and kindness for me!) is received and' devoured,'
as y on often say. It gratifies me exceedingly that your mother
(I look upon her as mine too) approves my conduct in regard
to the proposal from France. Grandmamma seems to like it
too on the whole, although at first she was dissatisfied with
what she called 'my indifference.' I believe she gives me credit
now for a profound calculation, of which my poor head is quite
incapable. Certainly I shall never be anything better than a
simpleton in these affairs, which the merest little chits at the
convent seemed to understand better than I, and as I never
opened my lips on the subject except to get laughed at, I learned
to hold my tongue. Your familiarity with it, my dear, perfectly
astonishes me, and I cannot conceive how you, who have never
been at school and have seen less of society than even myself,
can have acquired such precise ideas of many things which, to
own the truth, I never thought of. All my comfort is that at least
six months must certainly elapse before this 'handsome young
vicnmte' can arrive here, if he comes at all, (which I very much
doubt, rnoi!) and in the meantime I intend to banish tie thought
of the 'cruel perplexity' (as you call it) which he is to cause
me, entirely from my mind, and enjoy myself as if no such per-
son existed.
,"In regard to bonnets, dearest, the new winter style is
smaller than ever, and more off the back of the head, and they
are one mass of flowers, ribbons, plumes and lace. Grand-
mamma has a perfectly splendid one, with a bird of Paradise
plume. Mine is an uncut rose velvet (the girls all wear velvet
this season), trimmed with very rich ribbons ; not a flower or
scrap of lace about it. You have no idea how distinguished
and how charming it is, especially \as my front hair is so abund-

MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.               249
ant and so wavy. If I were you I would have one j
but white. M y winter furs are e      .o hv  n  just like it,
butwhie,  y  intr frs reermine, with a tiny muff; and
- all my dresses in dark simple colors. Where the material is so
rich as my clothes are-for grandmanhe will suffer nothing
else-there needs a very great simplicity, you know offeserve
the air of bing demoiselle, which I should be sorry to misserv
very first winter. I should be cruelly mortified if even a ryosy
goods' clerk should mistake me for a married lady, as Augusta
Varick is. The other day Augusta and I shopped together in
graundmamma's carriage, and I declare in every store the clerks
called her 'madam,' and 'missed' me all the time, as if I had
been a little gii. I was delighted, and I think A
was flattered! You know she is a year younger than Is Will
you credit, Grace, that I had the malice to say 'Yes, ma'am'
and 'No, ia'am' to her, to keep up the mistake? And to hear
her call me fRose' so gravely--it was as good as a pla  You
would hardly know Augusta, she is stall, and   e a.  ou
mature, though very handsome. Her figure is extremely faceys
anl she wears her dresses very full, with enormeo y showy,
and such a.stylish bonnet! No one takes notice of me bed
her. You must know that there is a little rivalry between
Augusta and me, though we are on the best of
sonally ; and perhaps I should rather say that ti ers
between her mother and grandmamm    about us le rivalry is
Isabel (that's Mrs. Varick, you remember) wants Augusta to
make a greater sensation this winter, and have more buxtand
better offers than I. I am sure this is very natural, and j
don't see why she shouldn't. Grandpapa lets every   know
at he means to treat both cousin Isabel's children as grand
children, which makes their position excellent, as grand-namma
says. And I am sure Augusta has- ten times  e tyle th
have, and knows so much better how to make her points. For
instance,--now don't set this down to malice Gre, forts dor
mean it--Augusta has a pretty foot and ancle ace r  d
Way of liftig her dress as she steps into or out of a as a
at a crossing (which everybody must do a little a carriage, or
that-is the most coquettish thing you can fancy, ecaus n
sees that she does it gayly, on purpose : while I blush like a foo


MATRIMONY IN THE HORIZON.

251

at doing what I cannot help. So you see I have no courage
or manner ; and she has. Then she has so much more conver-
sation-with gentlemen, I nean. What to say to them, I cannot
think. One can't talk about one's bonnet and the new fashions
-that ought not to interest them particularly. I make fright-
ful efforts, and by aid of the opera, the last novel (I read it on
purpose), and the new dances (which I dislike, dear), I manage
to get through decently, and am devoutly glad when it's over,
and so they are too, I suspect ; while Augusta keeps up a per-
petual easy talk, and is so amusing that both parties seem to be
laughing at every other word. What the secret is, I cannot even
guess.
" Augusta's brother is quite a beau, the girls say, and though
he is short,-not much taller than dear Bessie the last time I saw
her,-makes them all afraid of Lim. Would you believe that he
has the handsomest whiskers you ever saw, and is but a few
months past eighteen ! I shouldn't mind his whiskers-after all
they are a good deal like side curls-but Roosevelt's mustaches
are detestable for a boy of his age. For 'detestable,' dear,
read 'adorable,' so far as their becomingness is concerned, if
they did not make him look so fierce and ruthless. He has a
handsome mouth, and that spoils it. Then he is so terribly sar-
castic. Oh my goodness! what a tongue ! so glib and so bitter.
He tries every way he can to make up for his want of height,
which is an incessant mortification to the poor boy. He has
learned to box and fence, which is ridiculous, you know, though
he is one mass of muscle. Dear me! how he hurt my hand the
other day, in mere sport ! But he is a dead shot both with the
pistol and the rifle, and no one ventures to take liberties with
him, I promise you. Roosevelt has been my cavalier all the
autumn, while the weather permitted riding. Perhaps you'll
wonder that I never spoke of it before. Grandpapa, you know,
is very fond of Roosevelt, who was named after him, and Roose-
velt talks of changing his surname from Varick to Dashon, he
has taken such a disgust for sone of his father's family. His
father and he are on very bad terms, I am sorry to say. Mr.
Varick's habits are no better, grandpapa says, since he so mys-
teriously lost his election. He drinks and worse, which I sup-

pose means gaming: it is really dreadful. Roosevelt knows all
about it Iowever, he does not appear to have injured his for-
tune by play, for they live in the most splendid style, and grand-
mamma says there is not another woman in New York who
dresses so expensively as cousin Isabel. Oh, my dearest Grace
what sad gossip this is; but it is the only way I have to fill my
sheet; I have not your epistolary talent, to write a beautiful and
long letter about nothing at all. I must now close with a thou-
sand affectionate messages and embraces for Bessie and your
mother. As for Eugene, kiss the little fellow for Rosy, and tell
him she's dreadful sorry he is not twenty years older. Remem-
ber that I live in hopes of seeing you, as you promise before
New Year. Pray a great deal for your poor friend amid the en-
snaring pleasures of the world. I am almost afraid that I shall
lose my soul, my dearest child, so'please not to forget.
"Your affectionate,
"ROSE MARIE.
" P.S. I am ashamed to see that I quite forgot to send
love to your papa.fmy
"R. M.
" P.S. Don't fancy there's anything between fl. and me
coii i-  ard : there isn't. Don't breathe a syllabe e about
father rXould not have alluded to it, did not syll  kow hi
'        you al  now it,
" R. M.
" P.S. Grandmamma makes me add that your room is all
ready for you, and that I am waiting till you arrive to  hoos
my dress for the grand affair. as I ha'e set my heart on our
being dressed alike. So don't disappoint your own
"RoEMA&amp;RY,"

250

ROSEMAR.


CHAPTER VII.
AN fIPERIAL PRESENT.
GEN. ROMARIN'S reply to Mr. Dashon's letter arrived a great
deal sooner than anybody    expected.  The same steamer
brought a letter for Rosemary from her grandfather, dated at
Paris. She received it on that sadly joyful anniversary of her
birth, the New Year; day on which she "received" for the first
time with her grandmother, in honor of the completion of her
eighteentlh year. Before she had left her room, or had received
the congratulations of her grandparents, the letter was brought,
her by Louise, as an embrace from grandpapa Romarin, and ac-
companied by a box containing doubtless some pretty present.
"You will be surprised, my dear child," wrote'
"at the date of this letter. In effect, H. M. the
of genius doubtless, of military genius even, has ha  idea of
taking Sebastopol and conquering the Russians from his cabinet
in the Tuileries-by telegraph. It has been thought fit to send
me to Paris to demonstrate to His/'Majesty that it is iot thus one
can foil the immense activity and foresee even the inspirations,
ten times brilliant, and sudden as the lightning, of a Todleben.
The task was not a gracions one; behold why it was committed
to me : at least no one has envied me the mission. See me then
for these four days closeted with the Emperor, who lacks only
experience of war to be a great commander. He possesses all
the general conceptions with an admirable clearness. I have
convinced him; it is a great deal; for if there is in Europe a
man of fixed ideas, it is Napoleon III. I have said to him :-- It
Is in Italy, in combat with the Austrians, that the Emperor
gained his first laurels : your Majesty. must do the same.'-I

AN IMPERIAL PRESENT.                253
have succeeded, therefore, without i 'o-
cess will perhaps costtlosing his favor ; but my suc-
S       p    costEurope another bloodyWar,
finished.    -y                               when this is
" The Emperor condescends to take
in m  fotuns, ut n yursy  ea deep interest not only
in my fortunes, but in yours. Your answer to the proposal of
the Flordal family--your mother's lat;anse coni he sa of
child, that your American education has tspoies mencm
heart. The Flordal, amiablectoha not spoiled your French
eate ith Floit. amiable though somewhat prejudiced, are
enceharltecl with it. Here the ,afir is r'egardled as Settled."
must observe that Col. de Flor   is(egs
affair of Balako                (le is promoted since the
aectry of Blakava) accompanied me to Paris as my military
oecretar. A. the winter suspends active operations in his arm
with me, but vis extemUe  obabe that he will not return
witeror, but that the-U~~   States, on the service of the
ife is worthy  case ; ou will see him and judge for yourself
if ieis vothy of you. I will only add that eeyliTa
present seems to smil.e    llo nly  ddhhateverything at
thpresentatoie on the projected alliance. ~ Theunion of
e representative of a very illustrious but ruined house of the
d14ati ofgh noblesse, legitimist hitherto  with the grand-
withthe pofiagevofeN imperialist like myself, chimes exactly
gwith the olnique of Napoleon III. One cannot easily exag-
reratae the importance of the role which such a Ma quise de
.lrbe asur you wil make, niay hereafter play.-Hence, do not
sichifeyou tha the presss herself sends you a present
enough ; you divine  , you can consider a bridal gift. It is
accmlisheudine    y wishes; let them rather remain un-
aomp lied than compromise h any respect the happiness
ocey. grHia you a    . know the customs of American
icotefy. Have  any previous attachment-does the young
vicomte fail to inspire you with feig  f      ~i
either case your own excellent heart."
It may be imag-edeartz
bat maye seagied how the excellent heart of the young lady
beat while she perused the                           conclusion of this letter. With it
came, as we have said, a box, which Roneof  wold not  it
Ine till her return from  ,arRosemaryv would not exam..
lect,ibeing a retn fom early Mass-New Year's Day, we recol-
lcbig a festival of obligation It was pne ,n h PeeceI
of her grandpaetadw     to.I was opened in the presence
a bride, fit for the wedding found to contain a set of pearls for
of a royal princess. On the white


254              -     ROSEMARY.
satin lining of the case was embroidered, in a wreath of rose-
mary, the simple inscription:-
'E.
"S. . Z'Irnperatrice
"a
"ROSE MARIE."
The manner how these things-box and letters-had reached
them was at first a mystery, till the morning papers explained it.
They contained an arrival from Europe-" Latest from Sebas-
topol," &amp;c., &amp;c., &amp;c.; and in the list of passengers was men-
tioned: "Le Col. vicomte de Flordal, with despatches for the.
French Minister." On inquiry it was found that both letters
and parcel had been left at Mr. Dashon's door, at an early hour,
by a foreign gentleman in a carriage ; doubtless Col. de Flordal
on his way to the New Jersey R. R. depot, en route for the
Federal Capital.

CHAPTER    VIII.
A CHAPEL SCENE.
THE BI'THDAY of Roeca
versary;itHDAYe    Rosemary was not a purely joyful anni.
l~ray  preceded that of her mother's death., nulyo
the day that Thdrese de Rohrrohrsdah         Annually, on
been used fr    t Th  infase deRomarin was buried, the child had
been used from earliest infancy to vi~i  e  ohrsgaei
the old church ard o   hny t vsit her mother's grave in
ath o creard of the Cathedral, there to hang a fresh
wreath of rosemary on the tomb-stone and afterwards to pray
in the church for her mother's repose. It was an ancintusg
in the Romarin family, which  9  -I    a   nacient usage
before. omeri famy, W    never had so pathetic a meaning
before. Some say their name was derived from the usage
others that the usage grew out of the name.
Ths year thth day in question fell on a Sunday, the first in
January.  On  the  Saturday  afternoon,  then, Miss iDs no
ceeded to the green-ou       rnoon then, Miss .Dashon pro-
ceedd tothegreenlhouse, scissors in hand, to cliplnad
flowing sprigs of rosemar from  g            chp loner and
cultivated-by her      y rm large shrubs which were first
culivte, y her grandpapa Romarin at the cotta   hs
with her own hands se plaited oai    ttectage. These
green ondhandse  fise  ted into a rich wreath, fragrant and
gre,1 n  fitted  first  to  her  own  brows; ne rb foe h d s
large a garland been required. While engaever before had so
could no  Weptinigo         hiale engaged in this ta-sk she
couldne whelp thinking of the ball next week, of the noble
stranger who it was understood would be present, and then, of
Grace Aterton, wondering why Grace's mother had not allowed
her to come on for New Year after all, and pleased to think
she  oul permitted "as a great privilege and rewado
merit," to attend the ball, and that tey wouvldee adrewad aof
Thenshe wodereif  ,   t they would be dressed alike,
ton. probal  ne  f race would see the vicomte at Washing.
.n in oaher  not. Finally, she finished her wreath, and put-
and velvet bress, all black--silk robe, cloth mantle
a  om  L-she wended - her way on foot to the base.


A CHAPEL SCENE.

ment of a neighboring church. It was not quite four ; the sun
did not set till thirteen minutes to five; she might easily, she
thought, accomplish her purpose and reach home again before
the last ray of the winter twilight faded. On entering the chapel
Rosemary started back with an exclamation of dismay.
It was filled to stifling. A sort of steam  rose from the
benches where long lines of penitents sat patiently waiting
their turn to enter the confessionals, of which some seven or
eight were in full operation. However, with a look of resig-
nation the heiress of the Dashons picked her way among a
kneeling crowd, and dropped upon the floor at last at the end
of a file of servant girls. Looking down the line, which con-
ducted to one side of a confessional box, the young lady counted
twenty persons, all females; a similar line extended to the other
side of the same box; thus there were forty consciences to be
unburdened before her turn would come. Rosemary's arithme-
tic speedily discovered that allowing five minutes as the average
of a confession, these forty persons, and two actually in the
box, would detain her three hours and thirty minutes, that is,
till half-past seven o'clock. She hoped that some providential
intervention would shorten the period, and patiently kneeled
on, heartily wishing that she had gone to confession in the
morning; a wish that came too late.
After a while they began to move up rapidly ; some regular
penitents hardly took a minute; Rosemary got a seat.-" Now,"
thought she, "I will wait, no matter how long they are."
The very next penitent was terrible. You would have sworn
she was making a general confession of her whole .life, by the
time she took. The females near Rosemary sighed, some
groaned, one young girl got up impatiently and went away,
losing all her time spent previously. Miss Dashon gained one
by that move. The gas had been lit in the chapel a great while
ago; she saw by her watch that it was past. the dinner hour;
it was long after dark; she smiled at the idea of grandmamma's
terrors on her account, and yet her heart sank too; but to give
up after waiting so long was not to be thought of. Undoubtedly
it would occur to them that she was at church, and they would
send a servant to come home with her.

At last, at half-past six, when she Was onl
theconfessional, and was beginning  ta only five distant from
came out to go to his tea. Rosemary sighed;  he, benhepriest
as full as ever.--" Poo'mnb' t,-the benches were
as fime as everePoor man !"thought she, -he has the hard.
est time of it after all." I  wny  iue  h  lrya
In twenty minutes the cergmnreund.Afllhu
elapsed ; Miss Dashon wa algymnreturned. A full hour
elaped;MissDa~onvas at last next the confessional, when
the cry of an infit was heard in the chasing gen
consternation, which soon became particular. A lay-broter
came to that very box, the priest again left ita An tyother
put on a surplice, and proceeded with  e  went to the altar,
tize the child. This consumed fifteen  t rec ieaioum n  ora.
The next two penitents took hardly pcius mutes more,
as an indescribable movement with  a minute each, when just
that that side would be presently vacated  t   warned her
really come, a man (by his voice she knew it tha eturn)
bent over her shoulder and said--" Will   was a gentleman)
before you ?"-Rosemary bowed withoutlk aw him      Thag
obliged her to wait wotrso-out looking at him. That
oblge  hr t wittwo turns more ; besides which the young
ladies below her were quite indignant e   er whisyng
"Never mind !'' thloughtshe "itgt  at heer complaisance...-.
"Nevr mnd !' tougt shle:"i is a man, and it is well to get
one of them to confession at any price."  tisht to gel
,had no right to complain-djhatv could a man do?  Kneel down
on the floor among their petticoats to wait his turn?  That was
too much to expect. In fine, after spending hos  ou s The
chapel, breathing that irrespirable air, her own confession took
about one minute, and she found herself saying her innocent
penance of the "Acts," and distracted by thinking howce
would get home alone.y                     i    g      she
Rosemary was not a coward; neither the lateness of the hour
nor the darkness, nor being alone in the street, terrified hr,
but she was troubled by the thought of he  at,rtenfied her,
ion.-" In grandmamma's opinion," said she, "thisenilldiscre
greatest sin I ever committed in rny life" She  s will be the
for an acquaintance ; not one was to be seen. Two girls were
going out together---she hastily joined them.
" Excuse me," said Rosemary, "which way are you going'1"
"To the Ninth avenue," answered the girls  e

250

ROSEMARY.

257


258                ROSEMARY.

"Oh, no matter-I thought you might. be going the other
way."
This was in the vestibule. The girls never offered to go home
with her, they were belated, and did not appreciate the neces-
sity. A man going out, who had turned back at the sound of
the voices, stopped and addressed Rosemary.
"If you will accept my escort, madam," he said, in a tone of
cheerful respect, "my way will be the same as yours till you
reach home."
Rosemary thanked the stranger, and promptly named the
street and avenue.
" All right," said the young man, leading on. She knew it
was a young man by the voice, and as they passed under the
lamp of the court, she caught a glimpse of his face, which was
one to inspire confidence. Besides, had he not just come from
confession? In a certain sense they were acquaintances, lie
was rather tall, and kept straight on with long manly strides.
"I ought to thank you, madam, for letting me go into con-
fession before you," said her companion, as they walked rapidly
along the avenue. "Or, perhaps I should apologize for asking
tha' favor. My excuse is that it was my only chance."
" Thoso girls monopolize the benches entirely," observed
Rosemary. "I have always thought that one side of every box
ought to be kept free for men."
"It is really too bad," said the stranger, pleasantly.' "If we
only had the precedence on one side-the right to cut in, as I
did to-night, thanks to you !"--And he laughed, with evident
satisfaction at his own manoeuvre. "It was a favor on your
part, but it ought to be a right on ours-don't you think so?"
"The Fathers have so much to think of," replied Rosemary,
amused at his boyish tone.
"Well, I wish they'd think of giving us a little fresh air in
that chapel-if only for their own sakes. Some day, one of
them will drop down in the confessional' in an apoplexy-that
is, asphyxiated with bad air. It is a perfect disgrace to hear
confessions in a basement in such a city as this. Yet they do
it everywhere. I wish I were rich !"
"What would you do ?" asked Rosemary.

A CHAPEL SCENE.                   259
"Certainly I would not live in one of these b
aces, and let the Ark dwell in such a tent asrown stone pal
build a suitable church for the Fathers, the first thing" d
Without a basement; and the confessiondls all in the main
church," said Rosemary,
t You hit the idea exactly. They should b
the walls of each aisle.,"
"And one side of each box exclusively for the poor men I"
s.id Rosemary, laughing. In the community       i
quite forgot that it was a strangmernyo         ideas, she
Here Rosemary slackened her pace before One of th '
stone palaces,' and looked up with the air of one who     -
reached home.                                    who has
"Au! you live here ?" said the stranger, touch'
"1 will wait till they let you in."
"Won't you come in, sir ?" said the high-bred h
grandfather will be happy to offer you a glass of wine, and
thank you for your courtesy."           gaso      ie   n
The young man hesitated a moment, then refi
that it would be less embarrassing to the young ladyif
accepted the invitation, said-" I will make my bow to your
grand father."                         em     o    oyu
The servant opened the door before the bell
Was in confusion on account of Miss Dashon's unaccountable
absence. Grandmamma came out to meet her ntnalle
HI have only been at church, grandma
detained. This gentleman has been kind enough to     wa
safely home."                                  to see me
"Good Heavens! at church! Why I have sent off
uncle Varick's, and I don't know  where not. Your    ou
Cornehius has gone.oYouroadcousmn
gone down Broadway looking for you, like one
distracted.--I am very much obliged to you, sir," added grande
mamma, politely, to the young stranger.
He had removed his hat, and Rosemary, who turned to
renew her- invitation, saw in the full illuminatin of t te  to
cent hall, that it was a young man of some two or three and
y,with a pi ofosion of fair hair and a countenance like a


260                ROSEMARY.

king. She bit her lip, but grandpapa had now hobbled out,
and said:
"Please walk in, sir, and take a little old sherry this cold
night."
"I beg you will excuse me," replied the young stranger,
whose eye roved with a grand careless surprise down the
marble hall, and up the stair-case crowned with sculpture, but
hardly vouchsafed a glance even at the ladies. "I have the
honor to wish you good evening. Good evening, ladies."--And
so departed.
Then they all went into the dining-room, where the table was
kept waiting for Miss Dashon.
"I am almost famished, grandmamma," said Rose.
There was great sympathy, innumerable questions, which
the young lady answered while disposing of a partridge.
"How kind you are not to scold me !" said she, laughing.
"To have given you such a fright."
"Who was your cavalier ?" asked grandmamma, carelessly.
" Never saw him before in my life that I remember," said
Rose, with equal carelessness.
" He knew you, I suspect," said grandmamma.
"I don't think so," answered Rosemary, blushing a little.
" Well," said grandmamma, "I think that if M. le vicomte de
Floral wants to make sure of his prize, he had better not stay
too long in Washington, even 'on the service of the Emperor,'
--do you understand V"
In fact, the Colonel showed no remarkable eagerness in the
affair. He had written from Washington t6 Mr. Dashon,
announcing his arrival, and intention of reporting himself in
New York as soon as public business permitted. The Dashons
sent in answer a card f' r the ball. There the matter rested.

CHAPTER IX,
A RAILROAD AccIDENT.
Nothingin uAmerica is more democratic than our modes of
travel. In Europe they have first, second, third and fourth class
railway cars. The first class are fitted up like luxurious private
carriages, a separate seat for each person, cushionedhigh
backed, elbowed, roomy, with from four to eight seats in a
compartment, having a separate entrance; they are used by
prie, nyofes people of fortune. Merchants, professional
men, army officers, &amp;c., usually take the second class, which
arc less comfortable, each compartment holding perhaps a dozen
persons, sitting face to face. The common people, according to
heir means, ride in the third and fourth-class cars.
In America, excepting a car for negroes, and the emigrant
trains, the world goes pell-m ell, on a footing or sitting  of
S publcan equality. A large car, in which we find a double
row of cushioned seats, with backs to turn either way, gives you
not only the advantage of complete community with perhaps
fifersixty persons of mixed ranks, sexes, occupations and
manners, but if you travel alone you may chance to get a very
necruous and disagreeable companion on the same seat in
chews and hs  ity with your person. Perhaps your neighbor
ches nd another agreeable habits therewith connce;pr
'haps he is a very large manan e bsheso ei nected ; per-
a fidgaetty onean andheyou mIto a corner;" or
hiety one and is perpetually nudging your elbow, or putting
g     your new trowsers. You have no resource;
you cannot even secure yourself against the annoyance by pay-
Yet o sout  This is equality with a vengeance.
eno doubt the rail-car, even in this po  of view, offers
Som avanags oerthe old stage-coach. Two persons tra-


veiling together occupy a whole seat, and when the car is not
crowded they can turn a seat, and make themselves really com-
fortable. A party of four may always establish for themselves
this little seclusion, and there is a tacit understanding that a
woman, especially a young woman, travelling alone, shall not
be intruded upon unless in case of absolute necessity.
The railroads, indeed, like our old stage-coaches, have their
droit fdminin, or women's rights, which render our denmcatie
equality more tolerable. The best car in the train, and the best
placed for safety and comfort, is allotted to the ladies. In this
car the right of a lady travelling (as American ladies of every
rank often do) unattended, to monopolize a whole seat, or even
two, strewing one with her reticule, bandbox and shawl, and
spreading her crinoline over the entire width of the other, is
usually not questioned, unless in favor of some ther lady.
Our story has conducted us to the ladies' car of the southern
express train of the Camden and Amboy railroad, on the after-
noon of a day early in January, 1855. The train was rushing
at high speed over the flat plains of New Jersey towards South
Amboy. A young lady travelling alone-for she occupies two
seats in the manner just described, and takes no notice of any_
of her neighbors-first engages our attention. She is in the
first bloom of incipient womanhood, a clear pale brunette, with
features of exquisite regularity, among which a special bril-
liancy was derived from a coal-black eye, the liquid darkness of
which was shaded into tenderness by long black recurving
lashes. If one judged by her dark gray cloth pelisse, fitting
closely to her shape, her figure was one of perfect symmetry,
but her countenance was so very youthful that, notwithstanding
her apparent stature, one could not but suspect that some of
those perfect contours were the effect of art; although her hand
-she was reading and it was ungloved-was plump, dimpled,
taper, with rosy nails of the celebrated filbert shape; one fan-
cied a little coquetry in its. exposure; for one foot too, resting
on the edge of the second seat which she had appropriated,
discovered the same type, the high instep, the rounded, flexible
- mould-for it was half turned. Her dress was simple; a dark
straw bonnet and brown gauze veil; and under the pelisse a

A RAILROAD ACCIDENT'

gray robe of some thick twilled silken fabric. Her bonnet rib-
bons were of the same color, andlike every.ther nshe wore,
were fresh and new, She busied herself every th  he bore
or else gazed out of the windosed hesnf mostly with her boik,
past-snowy flats and leafless groves.a          peflitting
The two corresponding seats in 
turned to front each other, and were oppie row  pre ao
four persons, two of wl oin were ladies. occupied by a partyhof
*patyridng ackwars hdwee ladies. The gentlemen of this
partly, riding backward., had of course their loeytongn igho
full in view. The ladies, occupy rasetr lovely young neighbor
separated from it by the nupn a seat next hers, and scarce
3' he arrw Pssaewere eviden      3
and daughter, the latter still a child.gey were  atl  mother
chatting in French, and the females sometimes in  e reig
each other and with one of the   setmes TGerman with
prety nd adylik; te  gentlemen. The child was
pretty atidl lady-like; the motherplindrsamotovd
ish, in mannersquiet and thplim, in dress almost dowdy.
heih mnesquitand motherly. The gentlementrae
her with marked respect, styling her Trae t    treated
both which, I need no.e          grafinny'and  "comtesse "
bohwih   ednot say, signify countess.'
The gentlemen were both of cdisouss
of the two might be five and thirt  figmshed aien e blder
an air. frank and. nob"  fair, blue-eyed, a flne brow
degree a i nd noble. A long, thick yellow mustache in no
degree dliminislhed the expressiveness ofasnuayagee no
mouth, and of a cquai  resvns of a singularly agreeable
mout, ad o a quarish, resolute chin, imprinted with  ei
sive dimple. Though in citizen's dress, head wth  a deci-
military man, due partly ot ensdes he had the air of a.
and parly  o ue prty to the long overshadowing mustache,
massive well-proportioc-coat buttoned to the throat over his
short cloak wlinedwith abfigure.. When we give him besides a
Count Wissen. The oth  es, the reader recognizes our friend
altogether a nThe  to   gentlemen was of lighter build, and
atet  contrast to his friend. He might be eight or ten
narrow though   la      atures, a dark clear olive tint, a
nrohuh      finely moulded foreheadsplendidblceys
hair of the same hue cnlurld freea, slni black eyes,
hirofdtheusamhe zzlin alie an Antinous, a delicately pen-
gled softness and auteuand beautiful teeth, a manner of mn-
dyism in his dress in site There was a slight infusion of dan- .
for    his wesswin spit of a certain poverty which it betrayed:
fortoverroggedlaworn military tunic of blue, he wore a magnify.
pelisse lined with the costliest Rus-
0w

-c
'        -
#              -.s4C  , a ,.4r
.-    '

2G2

ROSEMARY.

263


sian furs. Indeed, except in the article of peltry, the whole
party were dressed in what Miss McFlimsey would consider
below their apparent rank in life.
The young lady who travelled alone not unfrequently bestowed
a careless glance upon this eminently handsome young man, and
sometimes suffered her eyes to rest, as if unconsciously, upon
the intelligent countenance of his companion. The conversation
of the party, which I shall necessarily translate, at last turned
upon ler.
"Our excessively pretty neighbor occasionally directs a
glance this way," observed Wissen, "which is of course intended
for you, niy dear colonel."
"Your modesty, W issen. Mademoiselle regards you much
more attentively than me."
" Ah, rogue of a colonel ! The furtive glanco, just bestowed
then instantly withdrawn, is vastly more flattering-you know
it well-than the calm and inquisitive look which a young lady
in her teens is not afraid to give an old soldier like myself"
"Are you sure, gentlemen," suggested Madame, "that the
young lady does not understand French ?"
"Perfectly," said the handsome colonel, with a shrug.
"I share that conviction," observed Wissen, "but pray give
madame and me your reasons for it."
"Her absolute unconsciousness when we are making her a
subjectof conversation."
"You forget, monsieur ic colonel, that the education of young
ladies confers a command of the features which diplomats mighi
envy."f
"In our rank of life, perhaps, madame la comtesse.; though
I doubt if even there I could be deceived. Certainly, however,
this young beauty does not belong to a class (if such exists in
this republican country) where well-bred dissimulation is carried
to that high degree."
The young lady's clear dark cheek became faintly flushed,
and a smile al but imperceptible, played on her deep red and
rather superb lips, caused doubtless, both blush and smile, by
something she met in her book, for she never raised her eyes
from the page.

A RAILROAD ACCIDENT.

"Upon my word, you pass a very severe criticism upon our
lovely fellow-passenger, and one with which I can by no means
agree," said Wissen, in a lower tone.
"A young lady of good society in the United States-will she
be permitted to travel all the way from Washington to New York,
and Heaven only knows how much further, unaccompanied ?
I hope not; for as I expect to espouse a young person of that
class, I rather recoil from such antecedents, and their possible
or rather inevitable consequences. I appeal to the countess."
"Ah, you are wrong to appeal to nie," said the lady smiling.
"The Americans are an extraordinary people, and Young Ame-
rica, of both sexes, is not the least extraordinary part of the
nation,"
"Frankly'" said the handsome colonel, half unconsciously
lowering his tone, "I take mademoiselle for the daughter of
some petty tradesman at best, and a very careless tradesman at
that, to send such a pretty piece of goods so far without so much
as a shopboy to take care of it. I assure you but for the
presence of mesdames"--bowing to the two ladies--" I should
long ago have deemed myself justified in using what little
English I havebpicked up at Sebastopol, in trying to mako
mademoiselle's better acquaintance."
"Oh, monsieur le colonel-fie !" said the countess, shaking
her finger at the handsome     colonel.shain
asoecolonel.
The young lady thus spoken of, whether she understood
trench or not, raised her eyes from the book she was so dili-
gently reading, and gave the colonel a look peculiar to Ameri-
cn gls, a quiet stare of astonishment. After a moment's gaze
she turned to look out of the car window, with consummate
tranquillity.
"You must excuse me for saying that in that case you would
a signal repulse," said the elder of the two gentlemen
"Without deserving it," replied his friend. "I appeal once
more to madame, When we first discovered our lovely young
neighbor, whose beauty I dd not extenuate, nor her astonishing
afternae eair of refinement, she was sitting as now, alone-just .
after we left  ashington, when the day began to brighten suffi-
ciently for us to see each other. At Baltimore, where I thought
12     .

4rnF r

I

264

ROSEMARY.

265


200               ROSEMARY.

some brother would appear, andl her journey would probably
terminate, she has taken her place in the omnibus, guided by
the conductor, as I think."
" Certainly, by the conductor," said Wissen
" It is well. At the Philadelphe d6pot, while waiting for the
train, mademoiselle, like ourselves, takes a cup of coffee and
rolls, in the salle d manger, with a very good appetite'
" Exactly, her breakfast, my lear colonel ; aid you must
notice that in a certain modest manner she has attached herself
to our party, as if she wished to share with Madenioiselle Ang&amp;.
lique the protection of madame," observed Wissen.
The young lady looked more decidedly out of the window,
and a minute after something dropped upon her book and wet it,
" She has attached herself to us certainly ; above all, at that
passage of a river, where there was such a crowding to et on
the boat, and such a rush for seats in the train on this side. I
believe that she allowed you to carry her travelling bag, colonel,
since when behold you her sworn knight! At Philadelphe she
has escaped me."
"She took a carriage, which was procured for her by the con-
ductor," said Count Wissen.
"Very well, at all events we have found her again in this car,
where she has taken the seat next to ours. Such a journey for
a girl scarce eighteen and beautiful too! And you will tell me
that she possibly belongs to the high society of the Union. My
dear count, pardon me, but that is impossible !"-All this narra-
tive with the greatest animation of gesture and features. The
ladies and Wissen laughed.
"I have been longer in this country than you," said the latter,
with the serious manner of a foreigner in discussing a rave
question. "I should not be surprised if our charming neighbort
were the daughter of a senator even ; her father may live in the
Fifth avenue,' her mother may be a leader of society in Wash-
ington. Nay, observe her a little-for she is taking no notice of
us, and certainly (oes not. understand French when so rapidly
spoken :-is not her costume in perfect taste ?"
"It is very plain," said the countess with that glance of

A RAILROAD ACCIDENT.                 267
minute scrutiny which women do not consider
matter of such importance; "but it is  er impertinent in a
"You think' so ?" said the hands         nive."
. sid  he  andome colon     -
surprise.o                                    , with some
Madame sustained her proposition in an extremely matter-
fact way by conjecturing the price of e  artre e matty
stranger's traveling wardrobe, conclude ry article of the pretty
one in Europe under the rank of a princess would travel in that
manner. -.,                           swudtae nta
"You can infer nothing from that," persisted Wissen; "ex
Pensive dress--. what we honest Germanspand  issen   call
extravagance-is a national foible in A i candinavianscall
a good deal of money has been laid outnteruc n esstace
quiet and inobtrusive effect. Onl a woduce a       could
have told what the things cost.   a woman, after all, could
have suspected it. That is an affair betweentlemen would never
and in this country they settle their socialaies themselves,
Both the colonel adyttse     ior social ranks that way.
o        o     and you, it seems to me, with great deference,
form your opinion upon mere accidents of custom ; mine rests
upon the cachet--the stamp--of ntrl    cso;mn         et
Ujo-   h  ace   th   tap...fnatural pre-eminence, observed
i all artificial societies, but especially in America where d
shades of social difference are more del'ic  tha anywhere h
the world. This child is alone, because her parents trust her
implicitly ; and my word for it, she merits thr pare tse r
The whistleanoneda       stion-- sth  eir confidence."-
Thewhitleannounced a station-..the cars were rligit
South Amboy. The usual rush    asmdrswe rolling into
Sut the youthful su s   o ushwasj made for the steamboat,
bu h  otflsubject of so much impertinent reak      aug
back till all was clear. The          r      remark huna
attended her, was very busy; at the steor, who should have
platform she hesitated; it was rather hig ifr   car to the
Wissen and the handsome colonel ran back to offer theirassist.
ance, but before they could reach her ac ta  srunassist-
nd passed on with her travelling-bag and furs over her arm,
With a slight "Thank you, sir !" to Wissen. Th oel arm,
did not notice  Wissen offered his hand     he colonel she
she availed herself of the courtesy with anom at the plank ;
and look of gratitude more than th  li  ervice  you,
and sought the ladies' cabin. t     es    se


'r j

268                    ROSEMARY.
Night had fully closed in upon the bay and the mast-sur.
rounded city, when the Amboy boat touched the pier at the
foot of Battery Place. The beau colonel, who had not ceased to
rally his soberer friend on his gallantry to the fair unknown:
now called Wissen's attention to her growing nervousness.
"Now is the time, if ever, for your knight-errantry, mom cher
comte," said he. "Here is a distressed damsel indeed. We are
approaching a great city, it is night-fall, and she is about to land
without a protector. Offer your services, my brave-my life for
it they will be accepted."
"In spite of your ridicule, I shall do so," said Wissen.
"Of course you will !" c"ied the colonel. "So would I if my
position were not peculiar, and I fear to compromise it."-
With a gay laugh.
Wissen frankly approached the youthful traveller.
"1 hope, mademoiselle," lie said, "that you will consider our
day's jomne3 together a sufficient warrant for my taking the
liberty to ask if I can be of any assistance to you in calling a
carry-age, or otherwise."
"You are very kind, sir. I expect friends to come for me,
and they will have a carriage," replied the young woman, imn
sweet voice and with a confiding smile.
" Ali! that is all right-excuse the liberty I have taken,
mademoiselle."o
The wharf was covered with hackmen and porters, runners of
hotels, and the usual mob which in New York collects around a-
steamboat landing, with a sprinkling of pickpockets and loafers.
The hackmen lined the wharf's edge, flourishing their whips to
call the attention of passengers, and vociferating:--" Carriage,
sir .-"-" Want a good carriage, sir "- They would have rushed
upon the boat in a mass, in pursuit of their vocation, but she
was not brought near enough for the boldest to jump, and as
soon as the plank was laid two of the boat's officers stationed
themselves at the gangway, and 'by oaths, threats, and violent
pushing kept them all back and held the way clear for the exit
of the passengers. The ladies regarded this noisy chevaux de
frise of whips with some consternation, and clung more closely
to their male escorts. A little incident very much diverted the

A RAILROAD ACCIDENT.
crowd. A footman in livery, with a gilt band roud h'
hat, and about Iifty capes, in round numbers, to his drab over-
coat, was trying to make his way to the plank to the rat dier
gust of the hacknen, who had a natural dislike to the reatdis-
tative of a private carriage. John was hustled, a  repedn
and pushed back, and finally, being an Irishman, got into a fight
with a cab-driver who had touched him insolently wit his wip.
Several of the cab-driver's friends set upon John; they are real
bullies these fellows ; and the footman, though he  e al
right and left as if he had been initiated at Donnybrommelaed
would have had the worst of it,ahad not the oli nyrookFair,
taking the innocent party into custody. Twenty mteerey
read to testify to his guilt:--" Take him to the station-house ;"
-"He'llget thirty days :" &amp;c., with showers of
forcible than refined, and whihrwe'udf' curses more
foribe tanreine, ndwhich we judiciously omit. The pas-
sengers hung back, especially those with female em braneps
to avoid being mingled in this melee, while others of the hac-
men wisely used the opportunity to offer tir ofrthe, wik-
the most seducn .                fe their carriages, with
,  ucmg promises of " seeing the ladies saf'e." Among
others, the countess, leaning on the arm of thehandsome cong
nel, and Count Wissen leading Moe. Ang6u  antemplo-
this scene with the natural wonder of fgrequescontepll
wait till the ' row' is over," said the count coolly, as the officers
of the boat urged them imperatively to pass on.-"     -
no hurry, and the ladies don't wish to be torn to pieces  e
sceslrats.''--",  It is worse thanteAmar  opiee by those
slrasn."  t  i  os  hnthe Alma," said the colonel,
laughing. At this instant Wissen felt his arm touhed  e
turned ; it was the fair unknown.a            ched. He
Can I be of any service to you, Miss 3" asked th
If you will give me your arm to get on the wharf. T
servant who is in difficulty with the police honhtoe form."at
"With the greatest pleasure. Will you excusome for me."
gelique, if I place you under the char  of y   m a, An--
M. le vicomte for a moment y"
counh, Anglihte will do very well, M. le comte," said the
ns  Jeannette will take care qf her."               -
"Very well!1" said the beau colonel. "I think we may all
move on now."


270

ROSEMARY.

Count Wissen went forward decisively across the plank, with
the young stranger, who hurried him along, saying: "Oh, sir,
speak to the policeman."
"You have arrested the wrong person, my friend," said the
count.
"That's our business," answered the blue-coat, under whose
hands the unlucky John stood with the resignation of a martyr.
"Move on, my lad."
"Stop, sir!" cried the young lady, with feminine disregard of
authority in the wrong. "You have arrested my servant, sir,
for nothing at all."
"I can't see it in that light, miss. If your servant gets into
a fight here on the wharf, my duty is to arrest him."
"Well, let him off for my sake," said the young lady. "I
can't get home without his help."
"Yes, miss, his carriage is just= at the corner," said a boy.
"Take your things, miss T"
"Want a carriage, miss ?" said a hackman, one of the fellows
who had helped pommel John. "Take you anywhere you
like."
The policemen took no further notice of the young lady's
appeal, but walked their prisoner off to the station.
"If you wish to know who I am," she persisted, keeping
alongside the principal officer, and leaning on the count's arm,
"here is my card-my father's card"-taking it eagerly from
her porte-monnaie. "My father will be accountable for the
man,-if he is to blame."
'-"Ah! that kind of argument will not answer in a republic !"
said the count.
The officer took the card sullenly ; he did not like to be
pressed so hard by a young girl; but the gallantry of the
M. P.s is their trait. He stopped and read it by the light of
one of the depot lamps.
"Behold yourself the hero of an adventure !" whispered
aloud, in French, the handsome colonel, who with the countess,
her daughter and maid, was close behind.
" Hollo, Jim !" said the policeman to his companion, "look
here, will you ?"

A RAILROAD ACCIDENT.
The men looked at the card together ar-d gl
young lady with obvious interest and curiosity
This i all right, ma'arm," said the officer, with respect.
"If you are-hem!-the daughter of-the gentleman rese
name is on tliis card--which no doubt is the   ean whose
your word for your servant's appearance, if he is wanted'"
Jhn was flhwtluwitli released, to the wonder of the crowd
Ge way there ! Let these ladies pass, can't you ?"
said the officers, officiously clearing the way.
. Ah, the card acts like a charm !" said Wissen, laughing.
John reieved the young lady of her travellin1baghmg.
for her checks,                              hag and asked
"The express-man has them, John. Where i
I am very much obliged to you, sir."
"Nay, ' said Wissen, "allow me to conduct
ry-age. It is night already, and a perfect jam o peyourcar-
At the corner of Battery Place stood a lar  f
hanmer-clotlh'd, crimson-lined with great silyermiyecamps
shining brightly, and a coachman on the box, the fellow of John;
in the interior a young lady of exquisite beauty,
"in mantle furred with ermine,"
as the poet says, who leaned eagerlyforward, exclaiming;
"Dearest Grace !"-" Rose !"-The youngtraveller sprang i-
and the two girls embraced with tenderness kissingeah on,
in the French manner on both cheese Ten Rsem ach other
ing the stranger, who waited till the end  otsectose.
salutation to make his bow, exclaimed in Fr  th   eiont
mitable accent: " Bu  h-o -is this, my d rench, with her na-
- t h i ti, my dear child? o'ltav
elling escort?  Shall I offer monsieur a seat in h car  trav
"Not at all !" cries Grace, in the same language, withia  ?l
clous smile :-for the countess and her party  w te  pre-
cisely at the dour of the carriage by the boineg arrested pre-
Wissen-h "It is only a very gallant gentleman," - still speaking
French, the little minx, as glibly as possible," who has offered
me his arm to get through the crowd  I thak      as offered
Sir !"                         -d      ankyou very much,

4


272

ROSEMARY.

"And I too, monsieur !" said Rosemary, with the prettiest
French effusion of manner.
"Heavens !" cried the countess.'
"It is crushing !" said the handsome colonel.
The horses began to prance and curvet from the moment they
felt the carriage-door close, and the policeman went to their
head, while John sprang up behind.-" You are all right, my
man !" said the officer to the latter, as the equipage started at
a grand trot, dashing the bright sparks from the pavement; and
the young ladies bowed their thanks again from the carriage
like two young princesses.

-.

CHAPTER X.
A FRENCH PLAN OF ATTACK.
THE foreign party took a hackney coach and drove to one of
the great white marble hotels np-town.  and the   tonoeof
countess engaged a suite of roows, and ordered dinner in her
own apartments. The two gentlemen, in order t obser     the
ways of the country, had a little table for theo observe the
sumlptuous dining-room, where with some choice claret mnd
Frnich cookery the handsome colonel aoed hat Paris   and
scarcely do better for them. They  -      la Pas
is to sayvr deliberately          ie   lk  luropeans, that
itosy, very deiertl   course after course, artakigmd
erately of each, and enlivei rhe afte se witcakingrmod-
whichwas timuatedb     the repast with conversation,
which was stimulated by a temperate participation of the juice
of the rape, the intellectual black coffee, and a delicate ciasse
or~ tliimble4fu of brandy, to conclude The colonel was never
weary of discussing the adventure of the railco of sn
his own stupidity in regard to the fair u car, norof cursine
'        nrgrdt      h  ar unknwGngtth
opposite extreme at once, he extolled he   n. comnd of
countenance ad t       -eer perfect command of
, an  the purity of her French, deducing' from both
the conclusion that she was indeed a        uein fromfecth
brought up."' Thena young person "perfectly
p.    hen she showed blood so unequivocally at the
affair of the police. In fine if his fair betrothed was like that
fortunate  beauty and spirit, he should esteem himself the most
forunteofmen,
trYou have been rather reserved on the subject of your be-
trotlied, my dearntesujcofyrb Floral." said the count, smiling.   Yo hv
not yet told me her name."n" you have
"Because_ she is not yet my   erteosre          ybae
her it alread be an unpardonable use of her name to announce
her as already  mine." s o    e   iou          a ynreyco
" Your silence has an honorable motive : still you may rely oi


274               ROSEMARY.

my discretion, afper all; and I might impart some informations,"
said the count.
"It is true," replied the young vicomte. "In fact, my in-
quiries hitherto have been wholly fruitless. No one in Wash-
ington could tell aught of the family, but what I already knew.
Eh! well. You remember in Algdrie, about ten years ago, a
certain American officer of the foreign legion, about your ago,
I should think, named d'Ashon, whom our lads called Cceur-de-
lion on account of his excessive bravery, and because his name
of baptism was Richard ?"
"Do I remember him ?" replied Wissen, with emotion. "We
were sworn brothers, my dear. He saved my life at Isly."
" Really ! Well, it is his only daughter whom I should in the
course of a few weeks lead to the altar, although I have not yet
,,Y-
seenher."
"You interest me profoundly. Dashon has often entertained
me on the subject of his daughter in a desert bivouac, by our
camp fire, with the stars of Africa glittering overhead. But
why should this marriage take place so suddenly "
"Because my leave of absence expires-that is to say, I ac-
cepted this special mission on condition it should not interfere
with my rejoining our battalions in the Crimea by the first of
March."
"Yetyou have lost already a week in Washington !"
"It is not lost, since I have finished my business and seen the
capital of the Union. Besides,-to tell you the truth-I needed
a little time to recover from the voyage before I present myself
before a young lady who is to decide my fate. Mon Dieu, my
dear! fabulous millions are at stake. It depends on this mar-
riage to restore the fortunes of the Flor6al. Perhaps also I do
not prejudice myself by a little reserve. A woman, my brave,
- is like an angler: she likes the pleasure of hooking a shy and
difficult fish."
"You have not graduated in the saloons of Paris for nothing,
after all," said the count, laughing. "Your last, diplomatically,
is the best reason of all."i
"For the same reason," pursued the young vicomte, with as
much gravity as if he were planing the attack of a fortress, "I

A FRENCH PLAN OF ATTACK-                275
do not present myself at the Dashons' to-ih      omro
night they give a ball, to which i am invited. It isTerrot
will see Mademoiselle for the first time  I shall,  there that 
simply my card-. In the evening at a pretty early hour, Ipre-
sent myself, in full- uniform--France betty  a r, I pre
strictly never to quit it;-I flatter myselfelgat war, i  ought
occa sions,and certainly one who han had at S  s in o these
ought not to fail in New York,",Paris
"From my knowledge of theAmer
of you tactcs.,,icans, I doubt the wisdom
of youir tactics."o
"'Why ?"
The family may take offence at your assumed indifference
The girl herself may resent it as a sl  r  he charence,
evening, perhaps, you will secure her in on inerve  T-mr.T
he noeitriwrow night she may receiv-eneomerview-To-mor-
T  ntsa       yreve you with the cordiality of an iceberg.
his is not a country for delays, my dear vicomte. oud e
young lady, above all, suspect the mo 'r  ote. Should the
wariness, it would be a feminine vengeanie o  yoff fina
you some of the numerous admirers whee to play ofagainst
covering round an heiress, as flies about a  as of h onbe
doubt not your ultimate triumph; but  a pot of honey.rI
difficulties,"                      you create for yourself
for theCount alsoojectde oa first appearance in uniform;
for he  allit  as  ellenoghinasmuch as it was rigor..
ously the etiquette for an officer in time of  as tasigon
the service of his sovereign; but it would be fwar, ettrwit on
American girl of the highest class to avoid anr better with an
To own the truth," said the young vicomte smiling.a
without the slightest embarrassment ".1 hvotaece   and
of plain clothes in my kit,"  - n,   have not a decent suit
"That alters the case," said the count gravel  u
prove yourself, then immediately. The Americans are a pe..
liar People. They think infiiel  or  f hseetenlsta
We Europeans do, among whom rankis ohs    efalsthan
hansve  Auniform e nothing here; a title not much bu
s clothes are 'the ticket' (as they say)     y n
Tha your first visit should be paid to a fashionable apilon
The young vicomte shrugged his shoulders.    e tailor,


276

ROSEMARY.

"I protest," said he, " that never entered my head. I am
here, just as I left the camp."
"Come, it is only half-past seven," said the count. "We
can fit you out in half an hour with everything necessary. I
will show you at the same time an establishment which has no
compeer in Europe.'
Greatly to his own astonishment, the young vicomte was soon
provided with a suit of plainclothes, fitting perfectly, the more
perfectly from the elegance of his figure, and of the best mate-
rials known to male dress.
"Ma foi !" he exclaimed. "I look as if I had just stepped
out of a hotel in the Chaussde d'Antin."
"You do, only a little more so," said his friend, in English.
"Now you are fit to call on an American heiress, so as to pass
for a real vicomte. Yet stay, you must have a fine white cam-
bric handkerchief..              .
"Let us finish !" said the vicomte, impatiently.
The young men agreed to make the proposed visit in com-
pany. Wissen assured Floidal that he would be all the more
welcome for bringing with him a friend in the person of the
titled Minister of a foreign court.
"This first visit is one of ceremony after all, although it is
informal."
They did not call a carriage; the two nobles jumped into a
Broadway omnibus, like any ordinary mortals; and in less than
twenty minutes were set down precisely at Mr. Dashon's door.
The family were not at home. Mr. and Mrs. Dashon, Miss
Dashon and Miss Atherton, had all gone to the opera' So cards
were duly left:-" Le Lieut. Colonel Comte de Wissen, Ministre
de S. M. le Roi de -------;" and "Le Lieut. Colonel Vicomte de
Florall"  The cards were all turned down in due form; the
vicomte left two; and the name of their hotel was at the bottom
in pencil.
"Now that you have saved your credit, what shall we do to
amuse ourselves .'
" Diahle! Suppose we go to the opera too ?"  .
"Quite the thing to do. We may see them. They may even
condescend to see us,"

CHAPTER XI.
THE ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
IT was a great night at the opera. In the train of one of the
stars of the lyric firmament there had come o    nericath
young woman of Scandinavian origin and great pronAmerica a
who had been engaged by the famous prima donna in ordat
sing certain contralto parts which occurred in the pe  older to
repertoire. This young woman happened to be a genius not
yeptappcia       Europe, where they are overwhelmed with
reputations. The audience of the New York      -
vned her at once for what she was, and in an instant the Sig-
nora F~licita was hailed as the queen of the lyric stage. Her
grand success had been in the Trovatore of Verdi  ae. er
rmserablymefodV.r.i, a weak opera,
miserably melodramatic, which owes its fortune t
stikg situations and some charming melodies: above or to
the fine part of Azucena 'On this evening was to be represented
a much greater work, Lucrezza Borgia. The houewasresented
from parquet to dome.T                     use'was crowded
Wissen and the 3 oung vicomte arrived late, and with some
difcly, by making interest with the box-keep1er, Weeamt
ted into one of the stage-boxes for in the parquetr tere admit-
even standing-room. They found themselves    thery got
Position to hear 'and see, being obliged to stand aver, in
order to see the stage, as the front of the box was occupied by
a party of ladies and gentlemen, who star ed slightlycupe by
entered; but took no other notice.gy when they
It was already the scene of the banquet w
steres growsintensndq*e-      , where the dramatic
interest grows intense, and Orsini sings his fine dr'nk
i cita, who sung this part, was magnificent  When that glo-
riously beautiful young gentleman  oeI   -,e      htgo
anyeuth    o gge      manrose from the table and ad.
ts, golden goblet in hand, tall as the other


278                ROSEMARY.

cavaliers grouped picturesquely round him, you could scarcely
believe it was 'a woman. The song was frantically encored ; a
shower of bouquets and wreaths fell upon the stage. The house
trembled with the applause. Then the music changed to the
notes of funeral despair; Lucrezia enters to inform the revellers
that the wine-cup has been poisoned and that they must all
die; horror sits upon every countenance; and they pass out of
the apartment one by one, by a door through which we behold
their coffins standing upright  ainst the wall in readiness to
receive them. The situation has scarcely ever been rivalled.
There was a lady in the stage-box where the young noblemen
saw this scene, who seemed profoundly and singularly affected
by it. Wissen could not help noticing her emotion. it was not
the sympathetic agitation which a tragic event usually excites
in women, that painted itself on her countenance ; but rather,
during the wild inspiration of Orsini's song, a glance of bitter
contempt, such as Lucrezia herself might have bestowed upon
her victims, and, at the moment of the catastrophe, one of irre-
pressible triumph. She turned round to the gentleman next her
with a smile, so peculiar, so unequivocal, and so malignant in
its meaning, that Wissen shuddered. He felt for the moment
that Lucrezia Borgia stood before him, as the poet has imagined
her ;-lustful, cruel and unrelenting, and yet with a maternal
instinct left too ; for the lady's eye, before it turned again to the
stage, fell upon a younger companion who, from  the resem-
blance, might well be her daughter, and the smile became affec-
tionate. The daughter was .a very handsome girl apparently
*      about nineteen, who wore a remarkably distinguished opera-
cloak of cherry-color and white stripes, her hair banded with
pearls, and her fine arms covered with bracelets. The count
whisperingly pointed out this matron-like finery to his friend,
and said :-" In Europe you would be sure it was a married
woman, but I am confident that this is a young lady."-" I hope
it is not Miss Dashon at all events !" replied the vicomte: " not
even her beauty would reconcile me to a style like that."-
"Elkf voild, my friend !". exclaimed Wissen.  "Look at the
itage-box opposite ! There is our heroine of the rail-car ! And
my faith ! she sees us too !"

TIE ACADEMY O1 MUSIc.
In fact the opposite boxws  -up
maa fac there sine box was occupied by the Dashons. Grand-
mamma was there, in her white hair, set off by a small velvet,
coiffure enriched with point, and looking very much like
duchess ; her arms, of whic  adloigveymc            iea
adchess;ter armsitwhih she was still so vain, were bare
white-haired, but with l. randpapa sat a little back, also
ling under the thick h a igh-colore  fae and eye still spark-
ligudrtetikio-ry eyerocvs: he rests one brown
hand on his gold-headed cane. Hiswite   ests buttorod,
old gentleman-like, to the throat: he loo s b    uttned
healthful, in spite of ,n  rat looks beautifully clean and
heltf, ting  teof gout. Roosevelt is there, just behind Miss
Atherton, talking to her, and looking at his cousin, in the corner
of the box nearest the stage. The two yuglde   i oehr
and look sufficiently alike.  h  w young ladies sit together,
and lookmtfete  ike, at first sight,'to be sisters; 'nor would
the vicomte take either of them for amridwmn           e
Rosemary was imposiner     hemfo a married woman. Yet
Roseary  as mposng;the fire of lorgnettes directed fromal
parts of the house at the bog where she sttes artl aromall
by te mllios o h  x whre he at, was partly attracted
by the millions of her grandpapa; but many an opera-glas still
occupied itself with her noble and lovely head  hr  h  we
had no idea who she endloes          had, where the owner
eye o idea wo she we tFair and momentary triumph in the
eye of the world, before the humiliation oftetmb   n   he
swift sentence of the     iuiito     of the tomb, and the
swf geamtene of ta worlds forgetfulness! The form which
now gleams like a star, the radiant countenance, the shape of
bing a luegn  will i a few weeks be borne along the streets
by a jealousand earse.. Already she is marked for the grave
byparessoussand vengeful eye. The lady whose singular ex-
pi n drssed-n had noted, turns again to her neighbor, a gen-
tlm D uesed in aemiquaker garb, and whispers :-
Do   you see the Roorr ~turning her glass this way?  Which
oat you, Ezkhe l ooking at her cousins, Augusta and me?
or at you, Ezekiel? or at our handsome intruders here, whoever
they are...foreigners evidently ?"r.
"Messieurs have the air of being
or with M iss Atherton on  f en greatly taken with her too
o  It iss tet    or both," replied Dr. Mannikin,
"It ispositively uncivil, considering that they are in my box
on gat iitin oshe manager--.after asking my permission
thought strikes    Eemstrangers !well, they look that. Ah ! a ,
t Eekil  Can it be possible that infernal

:3


280               ROSEMARY.

vicomte has arrived this very evening, and happened into my box
---into the den of the lioness !"
Mrs. Varick turned full round at that and gave the strangers
an American lady's stare. They bowed. The exciting last scenes
of the opera, despite the absence of F6licita, now absorbed gen-
eral attention. It is seldom that in America an opera is put
upon the stage with any genuine dramatic effect. Nothing is
commonly regarded but the music and the vocal gems. This
night it was different-a great actress had infused her own con-
ceptions into the action, and although Lucrezia was feeble com-
pared to Orsini, the interest endured-to the last, and the audience
never rose till the curtain fell.
The retreat of so large an assembly was a slow and serious
affair. Moreover, the magnates took it easily, which left time
for greetings between friends, and display of pretty opera-
cloaks. The parties who had occupied the two stage-boxes
met in the vestibule. Miss Atherton and Rosemary were talking
eagerly, the former sustaining her part in the colloquy without
ceasing to have an eye upon everything around her. When the
two cavaliers came in sight, she obviously said something which
made Miss Dashon also quickly look, and Grace herself bowed.
"We meet again very soon, mademoiselle," said the Minister,
" in a very different scene."
Grandmamma turned round with looks of inquiry.
"It is the gentleman who helped Grace through the crowd in
her difficulty with the police, grandmamma !" said Miss Dashon,
laughing and blushing.
Mr. and Mrs. Dashon both thanked the count for his polite-
ness to their guest.
"I should have gone to the boat myself," said grandpapa,
"but I suffer from gout"-smiling--" and I dare say my place
was well supplied, sir."
"Cornelius," said grandmamma, "I wish you would see if
Johnson has got his carriage close to the steps :-your uncle
doesn't want to walk half a square to it."
Roosevelt went off in a rage to fulfil the commission ; the
crowd was still dense ; for it had come on to rain ; and the car-
riages were slow in getting up, while the pedestrians, and ladies

THE ACADEMY OF MUSIC,
who relied on omnibuses, of whom there are always great num-
bers, blocked  up  the  passages, Pinningr e r ese s , r ait ..
in" o ubela.Mantit            inn   p their dresses, or wait..
lug for umbrellas. Mean while the DashosadVrcscatd
"the girls looked lovely        basons and Vaieks chatted;-
foeirs lke ley ink their mantles and nubes; and the two
foeigners  rather  liked  it.  It  was  al bot Plc, and  thew
drinkingonadte-Iws all about Felicita, and the
drciencies. Then a    great prima dona, and the orchestral
defcingcies fThe apreat surge of well-dressed people came
backing in from the porch, driveinbasudngtofwd
and heavy shower adbo,      ien mn by a sudden gust of win
grandhmam "consterned 'the whole party Precipitately back,
laughing."Thea coferned    as the Count said, and the girls
lauhing hegee of ceremony was completely broken through
In the changes of Position Consequent     okn thihatrerogrh,
movement, Count W'isse  fcnequent on this hasty retrograde.
movmen, CuntWisen found himself next to Miss Dsoj
and Flordal, having protected Ahnefnx       oMs Dashoni,
paed For, avine heroetd Miss Atherton from being tram-
pledl  on, addressed her some worso  nor~r       e  mf0  h
who had -been so courageos'    so    norgmn--b          he
few hours befe  seemeous in the midst of a fighting rabble a
gentlemen. In fine whe rgend by the rush of ladies and
gently m  In in wthrn Roosevelt returned, having with dif-
veruy nearest hint Way  t , and reported the carriage at the
verfy     pont, and waiting for them grandmamma accepted
Foruall ave sto iss proffered arm, and the Vicomte de
Ftor~al ae his to Miss Atherton, with whom he had contrived
gathei upheace in a very few moments ; while Rosemary
other arm support re bravely with one hand, and with the
othe ar  supoirtine her grandfather brought u  h  er
"Good-night, cousin Isalel," she said to Mrs. Varickeas  .
moved or. a"Good-night, Augusta.", as they
"Good-night, cousin Rose   ""     .   " Good
ght n, Rosemary."-Goodn          oemaght, Rose."-"Good..
ley of these salutations was fired after her, which made the
---rtey ook bak; but norone said, "Good-night, Miss Dashon":
-for tiey were all either relatives or itimate friends of the
aniY. That name would have made himsathdanoe
uttered it. An                  aehm start, had any one
noteand itheAnd Rosemary walked close behind him, and Grace
ow and then turned back to her friend with a brilliant smile,
on the  o      nngcvicomte's  a er to lean a little more decidedly
fon the wauno uictes sc, and Rose smiled at that coquetry:
for she was not quite such a fool as not to see it at all, Rose.

. ;g  } 
3' SC;


282                    ROSEMARY.
mary was not. So they sprang into the coach, the door was
closed, the footman mounted behind, Johnson gave the horses a
little touch, and off they went over the wet and gas-lighted
pavement.
"Upon my soul !" cried Flor6al. " This is an adventure !
How Madenmoiselle G ce is charmirig! I have failed to lose to
her my heart."
Remember, my dear . fellow, that you are as good as
married."
" Oh! my faith ! who was making love to her friend all the
time ?-a very pretty girl too, but not to be compared to 'Meess
Grace.'"
"There is no disputing about tastes, my dear."-The reader.
is to remember that the original of all this conversation is
French. "I admire Meess Grace to excess ; but Meess Rose-
it is simplicity itself united with a certain grandeur !"
" Ah, bah, Wissen,! now you are in your heights. I compre-
hend nothing of all that. In a year's acquaintance I should
scarcely draw such a conclusion, at which you arrive after a
quarter-of-an-hour's conversation in the lobby of an opera-house !
What has she said then I"
"What does not concern you, my dear. What has Meess
Grace said to you'?"
"Absolutely nothing. It is what charms me. The inconsola-
ble reflection is that I did not and could not ask her name, and
that nobody pronounced it.".
"Let us pray that it may turn out to be Dashon," said the
count, laughing.
" Ah ! what a ravishing supposition !" cried the vicomte,
seriously.
"You are then really in love with this beautiful young per-
son ?' asked his friend in a graver tone.
"Perhaps: but sure I am that I have made a conquest of her;,
and if it should turn out to be Mademoiselle Dashon,-why,
then, you know, my affair is settled."
"And should it turn out otherwise, Floreal ? You then will
have trifled with the feelings of a very inexperienced, but I am

TIE ACADEMY OF MUsIc.

convinced very innocent and estimable         -
your gallantry for a serious passion"
"It is true," said the vicomte;  e
" Yo ar offthestraghtathyet comes a little too late."
.   "You are off the straight path, my friendithasonrhnyLed; and depend upon~
it that sooner than perhaps you think, will you be led to ap
cipice."pre-
Meanwhile the carriage of the D
It contained five persons, for Roosevelt Dashon was admitted to
a share of the front seat. The young ladies-it wa    eo
hoops came in--sat close together an   lae    wasobefore
youn ma, nxt is ousn  g  er and left a corner for the
young man, next his cousin, lie was very gloomy and said not
a word the whole way home. The       yg l y dd snott
much eithe;Rsrnver          did young, ladies did not rattle
mucheiter;Rosemary never did, and Gracestoinaef
grandma mma Dashon. But the aaGae stood i n awe of
granmam~  Dahon.lintthelatter lady talked the whole
way; she was greatly captivated with C  Wisse   d   have
liked to invite him to the ball, if it had ount Wissen, would have
etiquette. do you understand ?"- ot peent diplomatic
accepting until Mr. Dashon had been regularlyesented o
him. And who was his friend?    So n   oreguay presented to
French legation perhaps. It was wonderful howar the
guesses came without their hitting on            near the
Rosemary alone did not ffra       o   the true supposition.
Rosmar alne  idnot offer an opinion who the handsm
colonel was, or evince the slightes c   t hon the handsome
When they reached home, the first  curiosity on the subject.
mamma's eagle eye, were the cards of te to caughtgrand.
her table.o                           e two gentlemen on
"Ah, Rose, my child, read these cards," cried grandma
And Rose, whose eyes were those of eighteen, not fifty-eight
read distinctly, amid profound silence.e...
"'Le Lieut.- colonel Comte de Wisse.
1iinistre de Sa iJajests le Ro' de-....
"And the other is"--a still deeper hush, and Grace
sprang from the sofa where she had er  uslf n Grcehalf
Rosemary's voice a little trembled :-" The other is
"'Le Lieut.-Colonel Vicomte de Florsal."'

283


284

ROSEMARY.

A deep blush suffused the cheek of Rose Dashon, but Grace
Atherton turned pale as death.
"Mademoiselle takes it coolly," observed grandmamma.
"I knew it was he," said Rosemary.
" That is, you suspected it, my dear child."
"No, grandmamma-I had not a suspicion till I asked M. de
Wissen the name of his companion, meaning to tell-"
Rosemary stopped short, and looked down at the card of the
handsome vicomte, who was almost her betrothed. A more
lovely picture could not be imagined,-the eyes downcast, the
virgin cheek slightly flushed, the ineffable expression of mo.
desty and submission that played over her serenely beautiful
countenance
Her cous  Rcosevelt stifled an execration, and rushed out of
the room, and out of the house.

CHAPTER XI.
THE MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED.
THE distinguished-looking foreigners conversion  with t
Dashons on a footing of acquaintance in the lobby of the Aca-
demy of Music, and handing the ladies to the carriage, attracted
general attention, but especially that of the Varickstracte
party coniste  f Mr and Mrs. Varick, their daughter Augusta
and Dr. Mannikin. The latter seldom appeared in bl
his old friends: but somehow the character of Borgia interested
him, and  he  had  availed  him self  of  adtn i g i vtto ,i .
plied if not expressed hmefo a standing invitation, im-
plaed iande expense bto occupy a seat in Mrs. Varick's well.
placed and very expensive box.                       1
"Beyond a.doubt it is M. de Flordal," said M  -
they were in the carriage.sad            rs. Varick, when
daWhch mother " said Augusta. "The fair one, or the
dark-eyed handsom~ young man'?"
other is narkred  nsome young man, you little fool f!The
othr i nar ory," said her mother.
"But why, then, did he never Op
Dashon ?" cries Augustaneve oen his 1;ps to Rosemary
Atheron the cie A sta."He did nothing but flirt with Grace
Aeton the whole time."(rc
suiThat rathrconfirms the supposition that it is the expected
suito from shoace, Miss Augusta," observed Dr. Mannikin.
"Whenlestod he devote himself to such a child as Miss
Atherton, unless to divert attention from his real aim ?"
Ah! you are a deep one, Mannikin! O
by contraries !" said Mr-, nVmutIeadyo
byw co toies maskai Mr. Varick, chuckling. "The doctor
knows how to mask a flirtation, doesn't he, Isabel?"
" Well, I heard Rose call the fi
fine~oking) g, le comee" persisted Augusta.
"That accounts for his handing aunt to the carriage," said
rhe moth, "       M. le vicomte, who is perhaps already be.
it is uite toe eu cus, led Miss Atherton, who is their guest:
iisqut  the etiquette."


286

ROSEMARY.

" Ah, you understand etiquette !" exclaimed Mr. Varick.
"Confound etiquette, I say. If 1 were Rose Dashon, I would
see etiquette in Guinea before I would let my intended get too
thick with such a confounded pretty girl as Miss Atherton.
Doose take it! you call her chill, Isabel! She knows more
than the other girl. I'll be hanged if she don't."
Mr. Varick had taken between the acts what he called a
"smile," and was in a very cheerful condition. When Dr'.
Mannikin was set down, Mr. Varick also got out, leaving his
wife and daughter to drive home together. The carriage then
rolled on in silence, until Augusta exclaimed :-
' Oh, mother ! if Rose Dashon marries a real vicomte this
winter-the heir of a real marquis of the old faubourg, as Aunt
Dashon says-I shall die of spite! And I see just how it will
be: she will marry the vicomte, and Grace Atherton the count;
or else, Rosemary will marry the count, and Grace the vicomte.
It will be Madame la vicomtesse de Flordal, nee d'Ashon-do
you understand ?"-mimicking her great-aunt. "I _ shall go
mad."
"Nee d'Ashon !" ejaculated her mother, bitterly. "Born a
Dashon ! I was born a Dashon !"
"Why didn't you marry Rosemary's father, and then I should
be in her place now ?" demanded the daughter, with asperity.
"Don't talk like a fool, Augusta."
"Well," cried Augusta, "I don't care. I'll marry one of them
--I don't care which-or else 1'11 run away with somebody the
same day Rosa Dashon is married ; mind that, now
"Just keep a little sense in your head, and you shall marry
whom you please !" said her mother. "If you suppose that I
am going to be out-manoeuvred this time by Aunt Dashon and
that old Romarin, you are much mistaken. That happened
once, Augusta. before you were born, when I had no more sense
or experience than you have; but I have got quite another head
on my shoulders now."
They found Roosevelt already at the door when they arrived.
He had that moment crossed over from his uncle Dashon's.
"Well, Roosey," said his mother, in a kind yet fierce tone,
"What is the news from France '?"

I

THE MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED.

The young man went in without answering. Mrs. Varick
followed her son into the furthest room o te  s. Vrick
threw himself upon a sofa and buried his face ite whion.
"What has hap pvened   son ?" insisted Mrs. Varick, putting
her arm round him with tenderness. "Tell mote "
In her ermined mantle  res    "Tl    other !"
nen  besied himane, richly dressed hair, and ripe form
kneeling beside him, she resembled a stage-princess in some.
pathetcspen:for iucesstly in real life these contrasts meet,
of splendor without and miserable passions within. The youth
turned upon his sire, without rising, and looked steadily in her
face. His was fiercely working.
"The Frenchman has arrived," said he; "she knows it, and
eas to she h. ra  can read Rosemary's countenance as
easily as she can read music. You told memteith
moment came when I despair d      lodm, mother, if the
momet cme  hen  depaied, to tell you. It has come. I
care not what happens. She shall never.NE     bo
another I"-VER belong to
"How wil' you prevent it?"
"Insult him the first opportunity,He is a soldier and must
fight. I choose pistols !"-And the Young.  s a strandhmust
itself in a duellir  -     -e youn man's arm straightened
Tself ia  ling position. His mother smiled and kissed him.
"mTehe way lies not there, Roosey: for this vicomte, you see, I
mean shall marry your sister."
"He never will do that, mother."
"Listen to me, Roose. Will you better yourself with Rose-
mary by killing her fiance in a duel? Will
and provoke a challenge, from every successful suitor she has-.
one after another? Will they all fight, if you do? Won't you
ebe arreed  d imprisoned to await your trial for murder, or
else be obliged to fly the countryN,2 ysnblev'e
your plan is equally y3heconty" No, my son, believe me,
yu pln i ll  dangerous and impracticable."
"I will kill her, and then commitsuiid  "sadteyuh
vehemently, et in adth s         suicide!" said the youth,
eeety, yet in a low, hissing tone.
bNow trust all that to your MoTHER !" whispered Mrs. Varick,
"     isover him, and speaking into his ear.
"What is your plan, mother? Speak out."
enter at once into  f h way, my son, you and your sister
ente atonc ino your rights."

Ii

I;

287

'  b . _ .
3


288

ROSEMARfY.

"Are you really my mother ?" said the young man, slowly,
and regarding her with his great blue eyes, in which there
gleamed an expression of yet deeper horror and despair.
"So truly your mother, Roosevelt, that I would forfeit my
salvation to secure your happiness."
"Shall I be happy when 'she is out of the way,' do you
think, mother ?
"You will be happier, no doubt, when she is Madame do
Florall" replied his mother, with a smile shocking to see on
maternal lips.
The boy broke from her arms with a cry of pain, and rushed
out of the room. The temptress rose to her feet ; looked after
him; moved serpent-like to the table.-" Ie will come to it at-
last 1" she hissed rather than whispered to herself: "but it
must be left to work."-She took up a miniature, it was with a
trembling hand.
Some one advanced towards her down the middle room; it
was Dr. Mannikin. Long as their intimacy had lasted, the
woman glanced in the mirror, smoothed her hair, straightened
her waist, and gave her flowing skirt a slight shake, ere she
went a step to meet him. They sate down upon the sofa where
the scene between Mrs. Varick and Roosevelt had passed, and
conversed long and earnestly. The physician was giving her
some information; at times the la ly's emotion was evident;
but we shall best explain it in our own words.
Great events in this world are intimately connected with little
ones. In the November election of that year there were four
tickets run in the State, and the contest was excessively close.
In the city, a democratic mayor was chosen, but a combination
of Whigs and Republicans carried all the chief offices, by a
mere plurality, except in the case of the Surrogate, who had a
majority. Mr. George Varick, who prevusly held an office
rich in plunder, having imprudently got himself nominated for
one of still higher control, shared the defeat of his party and
was left out of the city government.h11
It was a great blow to him. From causes which we shall
presently indicate, Mr. Varick's affairs were again in a disor-
dered state, and he relied on the boundless contracts centering

.THE   MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED.         289
In the newroffice, and the millions it would enable hi
handle, in order to extricate himself- le had b     m to
on himself, and subscribed a fabulous amount to exen agey
election, to secure the nomination  The     o   allensese
items forced him to dh- payment of all these
to draw his balances Very d
w is acomdations were liberal, on the implied condition
that his depoits were to be always lar    T
deposits and keep his credit good in bank, hew olied s
borrow on the street at high rates, and his  ewas obhged to
too frequently offered. It had neve e  paper began to ie
was diffic-lt to classify it exactly, Endorsers grew shy,  Since
arck had krom California, where he had learned something
has ad     ept clear of the'gaming-table in a large wayt
he was always intimate with a number of men of arge eabut
and untainted credit, whoPrivately indulged in the exciteme
ofplay; he went one night to a note  stbihmn  n     uet
street with' some f  gthetsaenoed establishment in a
stre  - e of these gentlemen; won largely went quiet
lost largely ; grew desperaawet ngh     ly, stimensely;in
returned byoew   operate, went nightly, lost '   agm
returne ome, One night, ruined, It was supose immensely
Varick had    sticks, that in the course of eight or ten years
purse, and i extracted about half a million from the public
Pse) anets Wnas gone ! With an aching heart he reckoned up
estate (a  e o  car, and found that should, he sell his re
fste, l  eeply mortgaged, of course), dispose of his houses
furniture, horses, everything, ndpa  h ses, hswousesa
beggar.y                 , and pay his debts, he would be
w h housese" we do not mean those of his tenants, but th
plural numbe onay occupied, which must be reckoned - the
Plural--uber: for besides his magnificent mansion on the lor
Aenuealienerally known as "Mrs. Varick's"--Mr V  h
fashionable sit on one of the side-streets, but a very elegant an
fasionle, Mr uation all the same, where in luxury not less e
qtal male friends  sometimes entertained a few of his confide
tive frinn, at little late suppers graced by some very ex.
Pensve crinoline that spent almost  gae as freely asMr.Viche.
pelf, and paid for everything osn:asfrlyhx as Mrs. Varick her..
o.Drvngsuch a tandem inmsh  ic  Ms.Varick did-
at whichMr.V sc a t   em, it is e  to understand the rate
c      Was going to--no matter where.. Put it allr
18l t.


gether :-election expenses, bribes, law expenses, bets, interest,
speculative losses, fast ladies, GAMBLING!! The wonder is not
that Mr. George Varick, after robbing the public of half a rnuil-
lion, found himself at the end of eight years worth a hundred
thousand dollars on the wrong side of nothing; but, this leing
the case, how lhe still had houses, horses carriages, mietresses'
cash and credit-could still pay something, and still borrow a
great deal.
But he could not borrow enough for his necessities. That is
patent to any one who knows a little of business. Mr. Varick
owed a hundred thousand dollars more than he was worth, and
was spending about a thousand dollars a week, with no income
to meet that inevitable expense, and pay the interest on the float-
ing $100,000, but-fresh loans. Let any good accountant figure
up where he will be this time twelvemonth, allowing that he
gets money at two per cent. a month. I shrink from the result.
What resource has he left Whisper it. No, best not even why-
per a fact of that nature. In a very tiuht place. waen his bra-
ler had returned him a little note for $10,000, which he had not
been able to get shaved even at three per cent., Mr. Varick re-
deemed his credit on the street by meeting his obligations as
usual, ie had got accommodated somewhere. Nay, it was at
bank. He had borrowed the money at legal interest, of one of
the greatest and most cautious institutions in Wall street. Mr.
Dashon kept about half a million there on deposit, and singu-
larly enough, though that gentleman never endorsed for any body
(he had stepped in, it seems, to save his nephew) the note had
the name of " C. Roosevelt Dashon," in a hand never to be mis-
taken, on the back.
"You couldn't be deceived in Mr. Dashon's signature '" said
a new director, timidly, to the cashier, in the bank parlor.
"As easily in my own," said the cashier, while the other di-
rectors shrugged their shoulders, or raised their eye-brows, or
grimly smiled.
The note was passed of course.
After that, Mr. Var  s affairs got -an upward tendency
again; his paper became mite popular, though a few old ope-
rators were shy of it. He had plenty  f money, however, in

spite of them  H'stw
ever   The      is two families were more extravagant than
adexpensimistress took a suddenfancy to diamond. the wa
and artistsivepleasures of her own; she patr'ns; the wrfs
eatd  r   tre was quite a circle of them at onzedr housetheyarts
flattered her taste, admired her beauty, made love touer ater
the fashion Wic a witt forei  dipmate regret no to fd
purPurce sing their wSocie ' and he delicately rewarded them
byPuchsig her  orks. It is hard to say eacdywhthem
prcsed Weny how, Varick seemed content.ahe Wat ohe
present when she visited their studios, and smewas often
ordes wen he own account, nor did he ever seemabete ave
than when he found his wifesdawnb0fledtth lng.
haired andouudhswfe's drawing-room              f     llete  aifed
arms, gibbein  ached  dividuals, with gibus hats under t
aruh his or aen operas, high art and "sic "and     heir
oh         or molu saloons an odor of the grand  ndifolusing
]3oheme                          ftegadadiffuishedo
Speaking .genera                            ad    oise
secret to hifaly, the scandals of Mr.Varick's l
 dilatet to  family. His son, as we have seen kne  ere to
dilte Upon darkly and mysteriously to his Cousine enough to
she could not    terrible interest in these confidencesWhicmar
quince uer Intermmon strength of mind to repel; and in wce
character wircourse with her cousin had latel assumeda
Shrepitied Wc  ade the lighter play of society s smed.
better than of rnelus so much; she understood hiem soi mid
btor althouf od.m                                  much
saw a good d al oose Dashon as yet accepted no invitation
w ap gd theao ne  e   tina quiet Way. Young get       e
gt up In the newest style    press and conversation   ene
inwould sit for an hour or two in the even on, ha ened
s bi Ve Gr subject of fancy balls and private   hand,
singng f G i~iand  ari  andprjatetheatricals5,
the Academ G l' and Mario, the prospective visit ofR hel, and
nted advey of Music in general  Dr. Mannikin asRachel, and
in, Stayed avey sort time and- was still mor areappenMis
Dashon received the      a      sell-onllmore agreeab anei
physician ver          inormed, Well-bred -an    -
Pieciaerty well, though to her astonishment h distguished
cavalie  woy jealous of -him thaaofsall the d   g counw
Cate Manni   opposed her little  urt- Corneours
. knw ith aos    litl    rt    ornelius appeared to
h a perfect hatred, yet w      aear
;.y                eenRosemary de-

290

ROSEMARY.

THE M sTERI s
"            A LITTLE OPENED.

'


292

ROSEMARY.

manded why, her cousin was moodily silent, or said in a low
tone :-" There are reasons which I can refer speak of-to any
one-even to you-nay, to you least of all."
This in Rosemary's eyes was merely the avowal of a frantic
and she thought particularly absurd jealousy ; and as she would
not permit Cornelius to tyrannize over her, she was polite as ever
to Dr. Mannikin, whom she found, as her sex were apt, singu-
larly agreeable. He was a suitor like the rest, no doubt, and it
is seldom that a girl of eighteen regards suitors with the severity
of Penelope. Rose had an airy graciousness, not unmixed with
humor, for all hers; but if she had a preference, it was for the
admiration of a man mature in life, and enriched with knowl-
edge beyond other men, -It flattered her, and if she sometimes
regarded Dr. Mannikin with a secret fear, there was a myste-
rious fascination also in that. Even the quaker costume was no
disadvantage to Ezekiel; it was really better suited to a fine
manly figure than the costume of the day ; it was more pic-
turesque; and he turned it to the best account,.as he did most
things.
There was an obstacle in the way of Dr. Mannikin which most
men in such a case would have regarded as insurmountable.
He had a wife already, though few were aware of it. How he
expected to remove this serious impediment, we cannot indicate;
certainly, he had no idea of committing bigamy, least of all
with a person so conspicuous as the heiress of Roosevelt Dashon'
And possibly, like most persons who advance at last to the
cQmmission of a crime, he did not exactly resolve to commit it,
but rather played with the temptation. Just suppose that so
immense a prize as the hand of Miss Dashon were within his
grasp-could he resist seizing it I And in that case, what to do
with the obstacle? i. e., the existence of a Mrs. Mannikin l
Ezekiel pondered that question often with a little vial of blue
liquid in his hand, the properties of which no mortal but him-
self knew, except in the farthest East.
It had been the study of Ezekiel's youth to discover a poison
which could be administe~d with absolute impunity. After
years of investigation-afte 4ravelling far-this man, still in the
flower of his age, satisfied himself that no agent existed capable

( VO

of destroying life  thout lt-
time he discovered one whichavcg   no tal orgat the same
no lesion of tissue, et     touchned  nviaorn, produced
for the time. In yt Suspended all the phenomena of vitality
forth tme.Inths condition, the cause of which nocri s.
trycould detect, life might e dsthed by o ichsnochemis-
.,Th1e victim m lxigh b  -  destroyed by mistake--5u
unfold the cause of deuried alhve. A postmortem intended to
unfortunateSifferera, would infallibly produce it; and the
ligation, would pr, giving from trance under the fatal inves.
only by the temerity of the last sigh that death was caused.
nate for Mrs.  ane ik  the physician- It was perhaps fortu-
returned home in    i     for a dozen years after her husband
slaved hbm a inPossession of this terrible secret, he was en
slaedbya assion which rendered himn rooud       asidibent
to her existence, so lo redereahi    profoundly indiffren
Latter is   so lo  as she did not cross his path.
Latry-this state  of  things  had  altered. T lv y ar h d
made- changes ir1      Insha   ,atred. Twelve years had
me hadnmae inpersons, in charms, in feelings. The last six
years had made such changes with rapidity The womenwh
ng ourteen years before, were now past tei bo
There was a new and a ioveer generation springing up around
him. Yet Ezekiel himself was unchanged, so far as socialnd
personal attraction went, unless for the better. Bein s and
unmarriedhe wfas in a way to know that.. Hence, a tu pfor.
beauty and wealth, Within reach of a river of both, he felt the
burst it,          eld him back, and longed day and night to
Dr. Mannikin did ntti
Dr.n Mentlemn didnot think much of rivals, lie despised thre
yotn gentlemen who uttered round the heiress, and he though
Roosevelt, whom laughed at them,  ie Was not at all jealous of
Moeveltrwhm he  tookevery occasion to praise and  -
Moreover, he held one of the satrongetcadzemncn      .od
intevr"ee lam          the strongest cards a ma      hd
in the very geneiral admiration ofntecothrhoex
No doubt do         nto of the other slex,'
were diut ozn of Young ladies, to speak within bounds      -
Well. Did not oekiel, and Miss Dashon knew this v
Wetl Didt om e of these young ladies find themselves fre
quently at Mvrs. Dashon's in thel ei ,   Ddt Romses ary
mer t them at (t1henthe ,iening   Did not Roea,
ettte atteAcademy of Music, or at Burto's(se       a
allowed to go to Burton's)  r at  usic, or at Burton's(orea we
Ridag School, or the Chrystaa Palace even    , or at  ome

TIE MYSTERIES A LITTLE, OPENED.

I


294                    ROSEMARY.
where I  And bad she not an or portunity of learning their
sentiments on many subjects ? Was not Dr. Mannikin's a,
popular and a frequently mentioned name ?. Did not Emily
Clerestory tell her that Fanny (her elder sister) was desperately
in love wi h himI Did not Kitty Plaidoyer frankly own that
she thought he was the most distinguished and most agreeable
man in New York, among the eligiblesI Did not Clara Roose-
velt (a distant cousin) ask her very significantly (scanning her
the while from head to foot). whether Dr M. did not v lt at her
grandmother's pretty often in the evening ? and was not Clara
an heiress toot When grandmamma took home the Varick
gils one day from Stewart's (these were uncle Edward's young-
t daughters), as the cariage passed Dr. Mannikin's handsome
mansion, and his gig was at the door, didn't both those girls
-turn eagerly and point it outI If the verdict of her own sex is
the first thing a woman considers, even before that of her own
eyes, in forming an opinion of a man, Rosemary was certainly
bound to have a very high opinion of Dr. Ezekiel Mannikin.
Dr. Mannikin, we perceive, is a personage whom it will do to
bet on. Like Napoleon III. and the "gray-es ed man," or a cat
crouched beside a mouse-hole, or Satan lying in wait for a sinner,
he waited for evnts. No failures dispirited, no obstacles daunted
him. He was careful not to mark his attentions towards Rose-
mary herself; but he was quite frank, though he affected
despondency with the grandparents.d
"Beautiful creature, your grandchild, madam," he would
observe with a sigh to Madam Dashon, as he paid his court to
der sitting like a princess on her sofa. "Would I were ten years
ouner (the knave should have said fifteen) that I might enter
the lists with these young gentlemen. Heigho! it is the first
time I ever regretted my youth."
Or he would converse with Mr. Dashon on the corruption of
our government, the infamous venality of our legislatures, the
increasing load of taxation, and weave in details about taxes in
Europe, and what the people got from their governments in
return, the superior protection, the cheap amusements, the
enjoyment of ithe fine arts, the admirable police, so that
thoughtful Rosemary was sure to become a listener. Mannikinf

TIE MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED.            295
never competed with his youthful rivals i
attempted to monopolize Miss Dashon, always yielded anyionger
man the precedence with her, and  y 'lieoded y younger
anl interest and flatter her more aget he contrnived to amuse
Rousevejt only possesse-1 a stronger charmbut this only whe
they were alone, for Corneiius was savg and bt d tis ocyn
and spoke but to Vent hitter witticssage and moody in social
even in their late-d.tates his dark forej-oy hpo  fiery bde and
and his gloomy passions were half    nsh        a jealy
Uncomtoltable phenomena to the serene n iel  adwoen.
The "suitor fromt France" wa a  neand jGuileless maiden.
calibre, formidable  e  "vat  a rival of an entirely different
mind, and at the same time thea      - of the hearing this in
hitherto through indirect, if not criminal of the man, his success
hard-hleartednaess and deliberate cutmen, and that peculiar
har~l~a~ednss nddelbertecruelty which we have seen him
heretofore manifest and which is a natya whict of havolupthm
sins, we shall understand how completed ec of rou tuous
the mask of his indifference  the news Frous actur
coming. Dr. Mannikin had taken the nes    of   e actual
vicomte the very first moment he s   measure of the young
Vanick's box ; and although he saidsawthim enter into .Mrs.
inent informed him who it was. Ma-ntwa     e  prsent
nteiview with Mrs. Varick, but halkm wanted an immedit
down at his own door, knowing that aricw   ulo be set
get out at the same time. Havin   t'rck would be sure to
unsuspected, till he saw him  enter ackoed  gentleman, 
Ezekiel jumped into an omnibus andr a noted gaming o use,
Isabel's.went straight to Madame
His errand Was to reveal son
of her husband, Which evn ettuing respecting the conduct
htof hrlusan,Whc even to' her was a profoundscrt:ao
that he drank, or gamed, or kept hos nrudsecret:-not
was nothing in hiaptetnwo house number twco ; there
Wa   . oh~  in this either new, or if new, eapbeoblnhg
Mrs. Varick's unabashed cheek, and n ,   able ofblanchin
tremble.ca                               her insolent lip t
"There is but one thing he can do, if ti
sd she, with a strange, cold light in here  "whatco eshknown,"
have done long ago!"reye:;                 what he'should
Commit suicide ?" said the doctor, with his
.i pecuhiar skeleton


#         4i

TIlE MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED

smile. "It is true, but let us think of yourself and your chil-
dren, Isabel. This combination sho ;s the necessity of your
identifying yourself, previous to that discovery which sooner or
later is inevitable, with your uncle Dashon, so that the blow
which strikes you may equally strike him. Do you understand
meT?"
"You mean that Roosey must either be married to Rose
Dashon, or stand in her place 1"
"There is not the slightest probability of her marrying
Roosey now," said the physician. "Look thie thing coolly in the
face, my sweet friend. The time is past for illusions. What
chance has Roosey, a mere boy, a cousin at that, and not with-
out obvious personal disadvantages, against this uniformed,
decorated, Antinous-like hero, fresh from the Crimea, with his
soldier4ike bearing, his military and hereditary rank, and his
five or six and twenty years ! None whatever. Dismiss that
idea, Isabel."
"If it depended on her, I should."
Dr. Mannikin's brow knit slightly.
"On whom    should it depend I You do not imagine, cer-
tainly, that any earthly motive will prevent a needy Fr ench
-noble from marrying an immense heiress, when he has the
opportunity? Will a cat in a milk-pantry abstain ?"
"These old families, of the faubourg are nice on the subject
of pedigree, and Rose Dashon's shield has the suspicion of a bar
sinister. It is her own mother, too. it she were the only
heiress in the world, I grant you, Ezekiel. There is Grace
Atherton, with whom Floreal (for it seems it is he) was openly
flirting to-night, and whose race is as proud and pure, and her
pedigree as unsullied as his; she has vast expectations ; and
my Augusta, too-"
"When she shall be your uncle's co-heir, will be in the same
case. At present neither Augusta nor Miss Atherton can be
mentioned in the same breath' with Rose Marie Dashon, ial
point of fortune: and what does this stain on her birth amount
to ?  A suspicion only ; and one which"-Ezekiel siled---
" may vanish on inquiry. They will gild it over, anyhow."
"It is wortfi trying, however," said the lady. "One never

";knows what wisuced
blunder I did    Succeed. And an unnecessary crime
elunder thad but hint to Roosey to-night in the fuy  o is a
jealousy, that his cousin might be got out of the fry of is
should have Seen his look of horror."y,you
"How imprudent !" said Dr.,lanknbiivhslp
"  I differ with ,       i Mannikin, biting his lip
on  of thos  you," replied the lady, coldly. "Roosevelt's is
rather see his   r  passions that would make him infinitely
"Well, te sitess dead than belonging to another,."
"ell the M situation does not admit of delay or trifling, "
seth Dr   et.n ar in a low grave tone. "A mine is dub
neathl   a f t     frankly I see but one escape."
ciouWy."ys have that resource," said Mrs. Varick,
ciouly. "Have not you often said so "usp
"well,. do as yjdso?
ceed."        you like, I shall be indeed rejoiced if o
" Uicle favors it; and when th            r         fuc-
that of the other bcms    th e plan of one grandfather al
Several ways present th  te secondbest, as. it seems to me.
affair. They yunt temselves for breaking off this Fr
thing to work on n mans arrival is in Our favor. We have some-
Either to  uietork onrn
adiocacy to quietrefriend's suspicions, aroused by his sudden
advocacy of an extreme measure, which half in banter half -
out her plans Dr. en the first to suggest; or in order to draw
outrher lans Dr annikn flow entered with apparent zeal int
She proposed to     - apparently hers Was the ruliri
Se r osd it work in two ways toward the same end  ni.
influenced o  it hld  e attaied. If possible, Flordal should b
at the same timetda his pretensions, or to urge them coldly
him in the aee  oud anything be discovered that would ruin
hmitheyes of so proud and strict a girl asuosem r u ie
must baye some               stric--a gir. as Rosemary ?  g~
himself admired hvice---gamin, wine or something. Manniki
,td  h is friend's genius and resources and
conversed i  Power to second her efforts. Whibe thengaged
covreit being near midnit  t    lhe             tl
violently        nht, the street-door bell wasy sina
Soarick! SO drunk that he can't find the night-latch
suppose. I will let him in, Ezekiel, and do you vanish."
T pposltjo that it was her husband
hsadwas correct. Mr.

296

ROSEMARY.

u,:   -
b               . , -

t"

G


298                    ROSEMARY.
Varick was brought in by two gentlemen, strangers to Mrs.Var-
ick  He was not drunk, but senseless, with a cut on the right
temple, which had been bleeding profusely; for his waistcoat
and linen were dreadfully stained.                    ,,
"Don't be alarmed, madam-there is no danger whatever,"
said one' of the gentlemen, who wore spectacles, and had the
app"ie had better be carried upstairs at once," said his wife, who
was alarmed for her sofas, which were yellow satin damask.
The gentlemen looked at each other, and with a smile took up
their burden. They were vigorous men, especially one of them,
the taller and younger of the two. Dr. Mannikin assisted, and
they carried Mr. Varick to his own room and laid him on the
bed. Then the spectacled gentleman bowed slightly to Dr. Man-
nikin, who returned it.
"Dr. Mannikin, I believe," said the stranger. "My name is
Galenson-Dr. Galenson, at your service."
GAh Dr. Galenson! I know you by reputation, doctor. What
is the history of this affair, doctor '"
" Briefly, we found this gentleman lying in the area of a house
in       street, senseless, with this cut, which seems to have
proceeded from a fall. From the name written in his hat we
discovered who he was, called the first hack and brought him
"home. The cut is not a dangerous one, madam, I assure you."
Mr. Varic.'s face, despite his loss of blood, was deeply
pushed, and his breathing was stertorous. Dr. Mannikin felt
the pulse. Galenson also regarded him with more anxiety than
his words expressed. Mrs. Varick, observing that the sight of
blood made her faint, and turning really very pale, got a
smelling-bottle, and threw herself on a sofa.
"He had taken laudanum," whispered Galenson. "We took
him to a druggist's first, and did everything necessary.
Mrs. Varick fainted entirely away. This caused great confu-
sion. Dr. Mannikin, who knew the ropes, called Miss Augusta,
who came rushing in in her night-clothes, and retreated with a
shriek on seeing so many gentlemen. Roosevelt entered, an
was self-possessed as possible. Here was another recognition;
the tall and powerful young man who had accompanied Galen-

THE MYSTERIES A LITTLE OPENED.             299
son, and who was the first to discover that
sw~ooned, nodded to -on              ta Mrs. Varick had-
young Varick, who faintly colored an
- -  Ah, O'MorraI!"d                                said
However, Augusta reappeared in a     rett
showed more sense and firmness than any one would have
supposed * possible. She proposed  that ny one      have
be are carried into ]            tathr mother should
e amined jit her room; Which was done, and Fleurette
ias summr1oned to take charge of her.  isBuik     hnre-
tuined to her father. You would not have    arick then re-
so frivolous could show so much filial affection as she did
She e~vince also great energy. Some strong
RLoosevel t objectSoedtorong coffee was wanted
e     ojcted.to calling up the servants an
make it himself. -O'Morra volunteered h' ,and proposed to
perfect ikrowley eof the art. Augusta found themofessiate
-     the end of an hour, the two physicians
cleared that Mr. Va ick was out of danger, and withdrew.
but 0 lorra, at the bgeeecring look in Roosevelt Varick's  -
accepted the Matter's offer of a be d  mived      k  eye,


CHAPTER XII.
GRANDMAMMA' S BALL.
"HERE is one of the advantages of the artificial system of
government established in this mighty Republic," said the
count, laughing. "I came to this the real capital, to investi-
gate some questions of great importance to my country, and
behold I must return to-morrow to Washington to conduct a
negotiation of little moment with the American cabinet. I
regret it very much on your account, my dear F'ordal, as I
shall be detained there several weeks; and before I return
your destiny will be decided ; you will have been married
perhaps; will even have set sail for France with your bride."
"Perhaps not," said the young vicomte. "I have a presenti-
ment that this affair will not succeed well, and that I shall re-
turn without any bride."
"you have presentiments ! A sure sign that you are in love.
But suppose Meess Grace and Mile. Dashon turn out one and the
same person 1"
"You who understand English so well, should have acquired
some definite ideas respecting her."
"My faith ! The old gentleman made his acknowledgments
to me in what he supposed to be French, and may, the good'
liable fly away with me, if I understood two consecutive words
of what he said ! But he certainly used the words 'my grand-
daughter' several times, and ended by saying in plain English
that his granddaughter would thank me better than he could.
So it only wants the proof that the old gentleman is Mr. Dashon
.--eh!" with a smile; for the count himself did not really be-
lieve it.

GRANDMAMMAS BALL.
hMeess Grace did certainly call him 'grandpapa,' "observed
the vicmte. "Ah, well! we shall k
My friend, my heart beats as it did in my first battle. Should
these people prove to be the D   i m   fet atl.     hol
thee P   e ro e to  be tDashons, what a felicity is in store
for me! for to own thevery truth, Wissen, even on the railway
car, I was taken in a desperate way with that beautiful and
piquante Meess Grace."
"How curious," observed Wissen "th
ber the baptismal name of Mile Dashono"
"I have hear,. '             laon -
ad it no doubt--it even seems to
not unlike Gracewbut in fact I have forgotten it entirely. In
tru, my brave, whenia marriage of interest is arranged for
you by your family with the daughter of a wealthy bourgeois,
your imagination occupies itself far mor  it9h d'r o h
lady than with her Christi   far more with the dollare of the
ladtha b idt he C an name or reported beauty, which I
have believed to be an agreeable falsehood."
"Well, my friend, it is time for us to think of dressing for
theiball, que i ois dsD a  t least to solve for us so speedily
the question of Miss Dason's identity. I will bet heavily on
Miss Grace."y
"  Two to one against!" said F
paid on the day f        y ar aFordal, quickly; "the bets to be
pado tedy of my marriage"
_  I will not bet two to one on
it is either Mees  rc   oeo   Meess Grace, but I will that
it s iterM~ess Grace or Meess Rose," said thdilmt
shrewdly.ehe diplomat,
" And I ! I will risk a
the box into which w any sum on its being the young lady of
the box into which we intruded ourselves, or Oneoftesm
stamp, of whom I saw hridredousei    s ta cae  of the same
the next steamer !      nrds--m that case I would sail in
Wissen laughed, and the
amount of the bd, a    ey adjusted with great coolness the
amout, o thebet.
Mr. Dashon had called on both the foreign noblemen in the
morning, leaving his card for both, and an invitation for the
Minister. The hour named on the cards of invitation was the
and punctually at the moment  hecrsofivtto         as nine,
read dressed. at    moment the count was in Flordal's room,
ray dressed. It was not an occsoonwiheiutepr
fitted him to appa  nuioocasion on which etiquette per.
the breast appear in uniform, but he wore a decoration on

_F 4


GRANDMAMMA'S BALL.

"I think it is the highest compliment that our rules allow,
which were I to infringe, M. de Sartiges would take occasion
to write at least a hundred notes. To wear my grand cordon,
and arrive early-see what is possible !" said the count.
"Am I well enough ?" demanded Flordal, who was in full.
uniform.
"Superb, my friend ! Even the kepi becomes you !"
"You observe that it is our campaigning order-kepi, red
trowsers-for as the sentinels at the Tuileries, since war was
declared, mount their knapsacks with overcoats strapped on, as
on a march, so I, by a military fiction, am supposed to be with my
regiment before Sebastopol, and liable any minute to be called
to the trenches," observed Flordal, who seemed anxious to prove
that he was bound to wear his uniform.
" Ah, scslira! you will be called to the trenches the next
minute-you know it well-of how fair a fortress and defended
lby what batteries! First, the eyes, a kind of sally-port for the
besieged. Then the -, but we arealosing time, my friend.
Here, no doubt, is the announcement of our carriage."
But the servant who knocked, bore a letter, which he offered
on a salver to Col. de Flordal.
"The hand-writing of a lady ! A thousand excuses, my dear
Wissen."
The vicomte changed color as he read.
"Anonymous ! cowardly ! infamous !" escaped him.   le
crushed the epistle and was about to fling it into the fire: Wis-
sen arrested the movement.
"Is it an anonymous letter ? Then preserve it. It may here-
after serve to detect some other baseness. I give you there a
diplomatic counsel."  -
" Read it !" said Flordal contemptuously.
Wissen took the letter and read it aloud. It was written in
bad French, which may be translated as follows :
"M. LE VIcoMTE,
"The following facts which concern a
young lady whom, it is said, you wish to espouse, may interest
you, or not. I submit them. Their truth is notorious.

"Her parents made a runaway match     -
saw the light. Even the marriage has been  months later she
"For ten years the family of her reputed
knowledged her; she bore the maiden name father never;ac-
she was never called Dashon till her fathe'  etmother ;
old grandparents havin; no hope of            t   en the
. o oe fother'issedicvrdta
she was legitimate, which before they hade veered The
evidence on which they proceeded has    ever denied. The
Does it exist?npublished.
"Till the age of twelve the soi-disant M
the education of an artiste. She saw only the society of singers,
musicians painters and actors. In effect sh s bro s   ,
by the same hands, and in the same mam, e as ermotht wp
eloped at nineteen with one of her father's as  Fine who
cedents for a marquise de Flordal  Perh s pupils! Fine ante-
gild over all that. Be very sure, however, that old Dashon
makes his will, for should he die intestate, the suatson mih
be contested on the gro ,d of mademoisee's ilession might
"As the least inquiry will' reveal to you'the exact truth of the
above, it is needless to add the name of a
"whatba"SINCERE FRIEND."
aseness !" said Wissen.
"It is base enough," said Flordal. "At t
any one venturet                  A   he same time--would
Sture o assert all that without foundation?
believed it, I would cut off my right hand rath
hon, had she the wealth of the Rothschilds'
is true, my brave; but the letter is an
first honorable impulse was to destroy,--.etaony os. Your
of justice resolve to disregard it.".e
"All that--was it true---should not Gen. de
informed me ?"n.d Romarmi have
- pursued the vicomte, with a solemn
his great brown eyes.                          glance of
Si    halyae didedotinfor  y theinference is that it at least
is ubsantaly false," replied Wissen.
"It is not enough.; that should not even be said," said the
young noble, hotly. "A marquise de Flordal said hae   t
only an unsullied  t an unsuspected honesty of descent."-eTh'
mte spoke 4' i; irritation.

4
t

X02

ROSEMARY.

803


304

ROSEMARY.

"If you attach importance to this, show the letter to Mr.
Da on, and attend his explanations," said the count, a little
co dly.
"I will," said the young vicomte, folding up the anonymous
letter, and putting it into his breast-pocket.
The young men descended to their carriage in silence. On
the way, Flordal merely broke out once, saying:
"By my faith ! I suspect that little hunchback who regarded
me with such a furious air last night, while I gave the arm to
Mademoiselle Grace !"
"You will have rivals, do not doubt it," replied Wissen, pithily.
A quarter of an hour brought them to the end of the line of
carriages formed to reach Mr. Dashon's door. The first aspect
of the house was strikingly palatial. The lower windows on the
Avenue were close-shuttered, but those down the garden front
were bright with the illumination within, and the double range
of the great front saloon showed each an eye of light between
its heavy draperies, but not enough to overcome the intense
brightness of two enormous private street-lamps which threw a
flood of light upon the rusticated rez-de-chaussde and the col-
umned windows of the facade, copied in brown stone from one
of the superb gables of the Louvre. Two carriages unloaded at
once ; from each a velvet carpet extended to one flight of the
double steps, and so to the vestibule. Policemen kept the way
clear.
"These d'Ashon are great people after all," said Col. de
Floral.
"The first door to the right, gentlemen," said a personage in
white kids, as they entered,
The gentlemen's cloak-room, in fact, was the library, where,
by an ingenious idea of grandmamma Dashon's, the unoccupied
shelves (usually concealed by rich panelling) were fitted up
with compartments for over-garments, for which each guest
received a ticket. A large double rack, with two hundred peus,
accommodated the hats. Quiet and respectful colored gentlemen
presided over this important department.
A knot of irresistible youngsters, each of whom believed he
was sure to marry Miss Dashon, Were adjusting their curls and

neck-ties before a swing-glass; at the mantel-
elderly gentlemen drew on carefully their spotless mlo, se
ing a glance at their     "0es gloves, steal.
ingaglaceattheirgray whiskers and what remained of their
thin locks, while young America superciliouslymiled at their
'         sides, piles of overcoats, like a counter
Brooks's, and in one corner a marble slab  tha
glassesThlabwithdecanters and
glasses. The entrance of an officer in uniform and
with a diamond cross on the breast of his coat, made a con-
siderable sensation.
"This is worth seeing after all, for it -
Wissen. "Observe that tall youth, who is -inatimsl, for
the all iths primmng himself for
a glass of brandy. Here is also a dressing-roo
a perfect luxury, you perceive. Ah i the     re  famous
M--ed, the inventor of the electric telegrap.-that famous
,r, plac-complexioned monsieur, with keen features. My
king gave him a decoration and subscribed to his pension. I
will introduce you to him."
The ancient President of the Academ
his friends to the distn.     caey presented several of
e  stmguished Minister and his military -frie
There was a poet, white-bearded and aust re mity fr ien.
lug eye and dreamy brow; an artist, accomplishedthan cof te
world, harmonious as his own coloring;- an historian gra and
sharp as a fox ; a Unitarian clergyman subtle lorian, gray and
sympathetic and superficial ; and a millionaire who was a vird
o, and having amassed a fortune by selling ci
kings in the competition for gems and manuscritsa icoes, outbid
beens aong enouch pts- Wissen had
been long enough in America to know these men by reputation,
which he explained to Flordal as the  slowly   reputaeion,
grand staircase: ohy sowy ascended the
sgand sta se: for the mob of white gloves and the soft as
sage and pressure of crinoline did not admit ofo      s
The toilettes were exquisite--     d so many drapid progress,
Europe ; the beauty of the women trly dazzl E mnd  soul
boast nothing like. .tm                   -uropecoul
was still i    e it, viewed in the mass. The general effect
imposin-marble halls, above and below;"co
giant vases of flowers, sculpture, brillia  light dl'ums
p owdV~ered lackeyi.           ntle h, delicous music.
A P  erd   cey in red and gold, announced their nam
ahet'rance of the great saloon, where Madam Dashon in ros
satin, point lace and diamonds, received her guests like aqe

GRANDMAMMA'S BALL.

805


306

ROSEMARY.

The count and    real were not greatly surprised to see their
opera grandma, ma of the preceding night. The handsome
Minister advanced to bow and take her cordially offered hand,
and then presented his friend as if it had been a court. Grand-
mamma adressed a few words of stately welcome to the young
vicomte, in excellent French, with a decided accent, and then
said :-" 1 must present you to my granddaughter, M. le vi-
conte ; and you, M. le ministre, to Miss Atherton."
Witn that grandmiamrna turned towards two young ladies
dressed exactly alike-two angels in tulle and roses (but
whether it was .a rose skirt, bouillonde, with a white tunic, or
vice-versa, and whether the skirt was over the tunic or the tunic
over the skirt, and in fine,  ' bich was which, and which wasn't
which, and why the roses were red that looped the white tunics,
and white-a creamy velvety yellow--that crowned the dark
hair, I cannot tell, except that the effect was as if they two had
just bloomed in a garden)-and grandinamma said :-" I need
hardly introduce M. le comte de Wissen, and the colonel vicomte
de Flor6al, young ladies. Jifessieurs-my granddaughter and
her friend, Miss Atherton."
And both young ladies simultaneously bowed.
There was so much general resemblance between them, both
having dark eyes and hair, clear-dark complexions aid clas-
sic features, an equal height, and elegance of figure, that with
the identity of dress, one might have been, and frequently was,
mistaken for the other. All through the evening, those, who
had never seen Grace, and but slightly knew Rosemary, kept
speakin4o the former as "Miss Dashon."     As for the for-
eigners they were as much perplexed with the identity of the
two young ladies as I am about their skirts and tunics-which
was which ; or rather they were totally and unconsciously de-
ceived. Had they conversed in Engdsh the error would have
instanly rectified, from the necessity of addressing  ach by name;
but as they talked entirely in French out of politeness to Col. tie
Floral, that eminently convenient word mademoiselle left the
mistake unsuspected. Moreover Flordal was far from cool, and
even Wissen'permitted himself to become excited by this reali-
zation of their ideas, and the prospective felicity of his friend.

GRANDMAMMA'S BALL.

Miss Dashon (the real Miss Dashon) did
.   though her eyes, searching for some friend 'npe to  fredal,
quently turned that way; Miss Grace o      n the crowd, fre.
about his visit to Washington with eosesonay, inquired
gence for which Wissen had prepared  f-possession and intelli
a  atrof course asked the         -b rinrs as
seemed that both were sen   YOung ladies to dance, and it
seemd tat bth  eredisengaged for the firstquadrille; bu
the partners did not fall out precise a ths qariped obut
the count asked Miss Dashon, who iy as they anticipated, for
Vicomte her friend. The quadrille was already forming, and
they took their places immediately, Rose aeaedyingcl, and
Miss Atherton flushed and annoyed.,
The crowd poured in rapidly : the rooms became
and fluctuating mass of elegantly dressed pecame a moving
setting this way and that, a tide-like roaring fpoesion ns
music, liveried menials circulating with try o certain
balls about the size of grapetshot, or of crays of ice-cream in
onade, to support the strength and spirits of theuchmad ll.
the grand affair of the supper should come oe company till
agreed that never was anything so well mng.       Aydty
great saloon, with its parqueted floor, its vamanaged. And the
ceiling and music gallery, what a hall for dancinpansp, its lofty
the crowd, it was always kept clear; and polka succ
to quadrille, and quadrille to polka, while theola  ceded
servatory,the staircase, overflowed ; even in the'third storhere
were rooms thrown open, where gentlemen who did oy there
could play cards, smoke and refresh themselves with Pnc d
?ium. pnha
It was about eleven (although they lived -
Avenue) when the Varicks made their ape     us. Mros. the
was magnificent : it was whispered tha arance  Mrs. George
X30,000; her brow and bosom fairly dazzled e iamo d est
which she had one of those luxuriant and perfect busts  side
in America, with a skin of snow, which h  d   urneto rare
best account. Her color was brilliant, and her manner osark
ling as her stomacher. Mr. Varick also had errmar     fine
color; he Was al  most carefully dressed; yet his e y e
d, and he seemed weak and unsteady on his pins (as young

207


308                ROSEMARY.

America remarked): his hand trembled, though it held fast to
the buttons of his waistcoat ; and as soon as he had paid his
respects to his aunt and "Cousin Rose," he went slowly upstairs
to join a card party. His wife and daughter were soon twirling
and dashing along in the schottische, as if nothing in the world
had happened or was likely to happen; and his son Roosevelt,
who had arrived among the earliest, went prowling about the
rooms, speaking to no one, dancing with nobody, and keeping
his cousin Rose always in sight. Once he approached her.
"I am glad to see you do not dance with the Frenchman,"
said he, savagely.
"Indeed, Roosey, I kept the first quadrille open for him, but
he did not ask me," said Rosemary, smiling ; "and as I am
engaged every set till supper, and do not polk with gentlemen,,
I cannot dance with Col. de Flordal till after that grand event
comes off."
" Then you will ?"
"Of course."'
"Beware, Rose 1" said Roosevelt, with a bitter smile, and left
her.
Although Rosemary did not " polk with gentlemen," she did
with girls. Grace and she were on the floor half the time to-
gether--the most provokingly charming sight in the world.
"I believe," whispered she, "that if you and I were not
exempt from anxiety on that score, this would be the true way
to get husbands-wouldn't it, Grace '
A bright permanent flush sat on Miss Grace Atherton's clear
olive cheek; she hardly raised her eyeo those of her friend.
If Floral passed-for he was a great waltzer-the flush deep-
ened to a bright red spot, and the respiration quickened ; above
all, when his partner was Mrs. George Varick, whose style of
dress Grace sharply criticized. Rose said-" It is none of our
bus'ness, Grace dear 1"
"Well," said Grace, "if I were you I would rather polk with
Col. de Flordal myself, than let him polk with her."
"Fie !" said Rose. "if I would with anybody, he is the last
man in the world !"
"There, she's tired at last, thank goodness!1 now let us take
fp9

G.ANDMAMMA'S BALL.                  309
another turn, Rosy  -.n   aa
an   e t   , Ry "--And away they floated in each other's .
arms.
At midnight precisely the procession
Da shon had noiella epoeso           ed off to supper. M1!rs
Dasho  hadnoticed that at great parties in New Yr   h
supper was invariably a mob andt arYorkre     the
plenty people were  in    dad a failure. In the midst of
plety perop wee faint and starving; ladies' dresses ruined
sevswithoster s, nk hungry cavaliers obliged to satisfy them-
selves with nicknacks and champagne.Teae       Partides
and game; but who standing amne       There are partridges
bn d !t   akoosa          n  and holding a plate, cakodmnprasp  an eat a
chip, and teeth an d ngperhaps, whose plate is a hemlock
chi, ad tethand fingers his krnife and fork.  osp   n
must sit; the ancients reclined.  e  dfork. To want of
space, or not knowing how to use it.tf
In Mr. Dashon's house, a wide marble
lighted with gas, ledfrmheie      abe staircase, brilliantly
te wh gas,   from the ground floor to a gallery that ran
the whale length of the basement, more than eighty feet. It
was sunk deep, like the lecture room ofteCorIniue
ceiled in blue and goldndtr ro       f the Cooper Institute,
celd nbueadgold, and the walls panelled in red n     'gl
paper:  there  were  scagliol  coumns, i rrors  tha d  and  gold
scene, rich carpets ; a divan ran round te ros   theete
played a fountain, and about it were disposed, in beautiful order,
ten tables, which seated more than two hundred guests. When
they were filled, the procession was stopped. The art of 'the
confectioner had made each table a masterpiece cornucopia
with viands, wines, andie  i pyramids of natural flowers,
wit vand, ine, ndplate. The negroes were all dressdi
red jackets and white trowsers andge Were oanssed in
very important, eiat-kes, and they were organized by a
white waistcoat and friedking mulatto, in a black suit, with
broocht  offat andrild shirt-bosom, on which glittered a
stomacher.      b         nearly as big as Mrs; Varick's
"That fellow is theN
mere    at   is ne   Napoleon of waiters, count, and yet a
mamma "i mat        - you understand  " said  grand-
him Le roam Jacues   call him Black Jim, but 1 always style
"hL e roi Jacques  you understand '1"
"on roi JacquesBlack Jim!" said the count, with pro.
foun gravity.                    on,     ihpo
"What do you thin
count '1" says Rosemary laughing.


GRANDMAMMA'S BALL.

"I was hardly dressed this evening when some one tapped at
my door. I opened it myself, and lo! there was Black Jim
with a cup of coffee and a tiny glass of cognac-for MEn!-do
you understand ?"-playfully mimicking grandmamma's grand
air.
"You took it 'I" asks the Minister.
"I did, monsieur, and le roi Jacques has promised always to
bring me such a little cup when occasion serves."
"Black Jim is very attentive to you, cousin Rose-with a
king at your feet, you ought to be quite indifferent, as I see
you are, to counts and marquises!' said a lady sitting at the
same table.
Wissen turned at the voice, and saw Lucretia Borgia, whom
a gentleman in semi-quaker costume was helping to oysters.
Wissen did not understand the allusion, although a glance or
Mrs. Varick's eye, directed towards Flordal, who was seated by
Miss Grace and assiduously helping her, partly explained it.
"How completely devoted is my friend Flordal to Meess
Grace !" observed the Minister to his beautiful neighbor.
"She is a mere child," said Rosemary, with perfect serenity.
"I am delighted that Col. de Flordal entertains her so agreeably."
The count slightly stared.
"Certainly," said he, "it must be the wish of all his friends
that he may succeed in gaining her good gi aces."
It was now Rosemary's turn to stare. Sbe had not an idea
of the error of the two foreigners; but now a glow more sudden
and more lovely than the first blush of the aurora overspread
her brow, face, neck, and bosom.
She rose as suddenly; stepped like a nymph behind four or
five people seated next her on the divan, and quickly round the
table to Grace's side, and whispered in her ear. Miss Atherton
started up with a look of confusion, and appeared about to yield
her seat to her friend, but Rosemary half forcibly, half caress-
ingly pushed her back, whispered again earnestly, and returned
to her own place with the same graceful courage.
"I am very hungry," said she, as she resumed, laughing. and
slightly panting, her seat. "Except Jim's coffee and thimble-
full of cognac, I have not tasted anything this evening."

So then, her emotion, whatever its cause, had not taken away
her appetite. Wissen wondered at her, and str ore way
after despatching a slice of grouse, she turned to himore, said,
with a blush--in Englishm..a
"Do not you think that my friend Miss Grace Atherton has a
beautiful face, Count Wissen ?-onha'
Wissen never changed a muscle; he was s     '
mat that according to Talleyrand's illustrate practiced a diplo
kicked him from behind, his face would no h, bfaye   it;
but he comprehended the drift of the nest'ave betrayed it;
blushed internally at his own stupidity. 1d
Miss Grace Atherton !" repeated he, in his serious foreign
manner. "I have then the honor of speaking to Miss Dashon ?"
Are we so much alike that you cannot tell one from the
other? or is that a delicate compliment to me ?"
" J have been laboring under a mistake from the first," said
the lIinister. "My friend, also, I regret to say, has the same
misconception"
"It is a little comedy !" said Rosemary, with a musical laugh.
"It is no matter, however, as Miss Athert  - a  a  ah.
I engage you, M. le comte, not to interrupt it on an  hcoes."
' Ah, yon- have a spice of mocker -nany account."
"Abyou avea Spce f moker in your composition, Miss
Dashon. But you have already enihou        oposiend in
regard to our absurd mistake."            your friend in
"It is quite different, count. A youn lad!
sion of that kind on the par o alnt ady . A misapprehen..
sio oftha kid o te part of a gentleman might be too serious
for her, if she were not aware of it."es
"How true and clear she rings !" thought th
eigner. "It was not an impulse of jealousy, then, hut feminine
esprit du corps that sent her like an  owsyomen butrinin
to her friend's side, the moment she made his aiow  toaput
Meess Grace on her guard. Ah, 'tis as ke  s dicor, tooput
fine and sharp in he udmns       s keen as a razor, too...
fine   ~ an  hr  n her judgments ! She reads that po  lra
already. What shall we do now? I  perea that  oor  loral-
ised himself already irretrievably with Meess Grace."
Wissen was in a fever of impatience to et rease
table, but as heoudnotta     e tlbo get released from the
stben bahe could not take the liberty Miss Dashon had of
Stepin  beindlades nd gentlemen, he was forced to wvait

I

t
'

,r
y
5
4
R 1

810

ROSEMARY.

311


GRANDMAMMA'S BALL.

till grandmamma moved. Then a little confusion arose in the
ball; it was only a young man who had got a little too much
champagne; the corks were flying in all directions; people
were leaving the supper-room, others coming in rapidly to take
their places ; some gentlemen, old and young, rather excited at
the novelty of a sit-down supper at a party, were inclined to
prolong the session too much ; a very happy individual gave a
toast, and wanted to get upon the table to make a Union-saving
speech ; he was with some difficulty prevented, with gentle vio-
lence was got away and put into a carriage. It was amusing to
see the astonishment of Flordal at this occurrence. The barbarism
which American, like Russian, magnificence too often thinly
veils, peeped out a little. The ladies retired from that part of
the hall in dismay, but those who had not yet supped were not
prevented by it from sitting down at other tables. In the mean-
time, before Wissen could escape from his fair prison, Floreal
and -Miss Atherton, rising, quitted the room together ; and as
soon as he got out, grandmamma, whom he had had the honor of
leading to supper, resumed his arm.
"Resign yourself, count," said Rosemary, as she swept by
him on the arm of her last partner. She was on her way to join
the first quadrille after supper, in which she was engaged to
dance with Col. de Flordal, with whom except when he did
her the honor of asking that favor, she had not exchanged a
single word all the evening. In fact, Miss Dashon had adopted
the general rule of not talking to young gentlemen, except in
monosyllables._
Her cavalier was a shy and silent young man ; at supper to
which he wasrentitledbto conductmher, e had not favored her
with a single remark, but he was more lively now and made a
number of silly observations as they went upstairs, at all which
Miss Dashon was good-natured enough to laugh, so that he
flattered himself he was entertaining her vastly. She hurried
him along,-it was surprising how quick and free she could step
off when she chose--and in crowded saloon and door-way every-
body yielded to the beautiful daughter of the house, distin-
guished by her exquisite carriage and peculiar toilette (for her
dress was then a novelty). Rawkin was delighted with her con-f

313

descension, for she took him through all the rooms of the ground
floor-leaving h m at the door of the ladies' apartments while
she peeped in ;-through all those of the grand suite. Nowhere
were- Flordal and Miss Atherton to be found ! Finally  she
resolved to return to the great saloon (where they were waltz-
ing) and order the next quadrille to be played- Then Col, do
Flordal must appear to keel) his engagemeret.
In the hall she encountered Roosevelt Varick, who approached
her with agitation.
" Rosemary ! I have been looking for you everywhere. Come
with me. Uncle wants you."   ne
"Grandpa wants me'? Excuse me, Mr. Rawkin Where is
he, Roosey '?",                          aere
"Down stairs."
Mr. Dashon was in the lower hall, at the entrance of the
little anteroom. With him were Mr. George Varick, and a
couple of getle*m.eore                       arcknad'
coupe lo lkenlemen im great coats, with hats in haud, who did
not look like guests.
"My dear child," said grandpapa,"I want the key of your
room, and permission to see these gentlemen there. There is
not another spot in the house where we can be free from in-
trusion."
"Certainly) grandpapa."
She led on through the ante-chamber (hall room) into the
small conservatoryr   h      -       ro.
To Rosemary's infinite astonishment, there were the vicomte
and Grace in confidential converse-the young vicomte held
Grace's hand. Grace seemed excessively confused.
"I am sorry to have disturbed you," said Rosemary, coldly..
"Grand papa wanted to go to my room with these gentlemen."
Miss Atherton and the vicomte withdrew, while Miss Dasho
took her key from behind a flower-pot, and opened hr door.
"Let me go in first, grandpapa, and see if all is in order, and
turn_ up the gas."
"Oh, never mind, my child-never mind-we will make every
excuse on such a night," said grandpapa, entering.
Mr. George Varick, the two strangers, and Roosevelt followed
When Rosemary had turned up the gas, theyoeelthe
14g

8i2

ROSEMARY.


" The beautiful apartment was discovered.  She might have
spared herself all anxiety about its decorum; not a trace re-
mained of the recent toilette; everything had been put away.
A bright wood fire blazed on the hearth, the panels of the Maltese
window were closed and its curtains drawn; the antique toilet-
table sparkled; the bed lay pure and white, the covering turned
down in readiness to receive its occupant; across. a chair lay a
bright dressing-robe, on the table stood an emity coffee-cup--
the same which Black Jim so attentively brought before the
party began.
Rosemary's heart was all in a flutter from a thousand emotions,
and lo! Mr. George Varick dropping on his knees at her tale,
on which he bu ied his head, cried out in a horrible voice-
"I confess all! Mr. Dashon ! I have forged your name--
that's the whole truth-but it is a trifle-a trifle to you-save
me for my children's sake ! !'F
Aghast, Rosemary leaned back against the door of her an-
tique wardrobe.
"Leave us, my child !" said her grandfather, sternly.
"Don't go, Rose ! for Heaven's sake F' whispered Roosevelt,
-grasping her hand convulsively. "Intercede for my father--
for us all !"
Rosemary locked her door on the inside, and went round to
her grandfather, who bad sat down, seated herself in his lap,
and threw her arms round his neck.-                  -
"This can be hushed up, Mr. Dashon," 'said one of the
strange gentlemen, also seating himself, "if you are willing to
pay the very heavy amount in which Mr. Varick has defrauded
our bank,"
Rosemary whispered in her grandfather's ear.
"You are a fool, child ! He will do it again !"
"Never !" groaned Varick. "Save the honor Qf my name,
my children-your own blood, Mr. Dashon-.and to-morrow I
will be past committing such an offence again !'
"Miserable man ! would you commit suicide "
"He attempted it last night, and was only saved by accident
and the skill of Dr. Mannikin, sir !" said Roosevelt, with won-
derful calmness.   -

GRANDMAMMA'S BALE.

315

"lHe will be very careful how he does it, if I get him out of
this scrape now," said Mr. Dashon, with a look of scorn, every
fibre of his frame trembling with anger.
Rosemary's arms tightened round her ;grandfather's neck, as
she spoke in passionate whispers. 'Twas a strange contrast--
her young face, her liquid, melting, entreating eye, her mouth
of inexpressible tenderness-the old man's dark, stern, unre-
laxing countenance, hard as wood, only the eye showing emo-
tion, and that terrible.
"Not for their sakes-but for mine, then, grandpapa !--
This shame will fall on me, too. Have I not enough already to
bear for the faults and crimes of the Varicks !" exclaimed she
loftily, and rising to her feet.
Roosevelt covered his face with both his hands. His uncle
looked at him, with a stony eye.
"Do you love this boy, Rose ?"
"This is not a place for such-a question, sir !" said the girl,
crimsoning.
"I must have an answer-on your veracity," said the old
man, obdurately.
"I love Roosevelt as a cousin--in no other way, sir, do I or
can I ever regard him."
The young man uttered a faint cry-quickly suppressed.
"My curse on you, Rose, if you deceive me, or if you ever
marry him. Marry any one else you like--the Frenchman if
you fancy him-no one named Varick !"
"I am entirely disposed to obey you in that, sir," said Rose-
mary, again drawing close to him, and sinking down at his knee.
"Give me the notes !" said grandpapa, hoarsely, to the gen-.
tieman who had before spoken.
With great eagerness, the bank officer took them froni a
pocket-book'in the breast of his coat, and laid them on the table
before Mr. Dashon. The latter examined them one by one and
set down the amounts, which he cast up. He then glanced at
the endorsements--a red angry spot burned in his cheek as if it
had been suddenly smitten. Varick never raised his head. Mr.
Dashon gathered up the notes, and said bitterly-.
"These would never have been passed without the connivance

7N .i   1
3
t
3
i
_

"            ,
.
.    ";
- ;
" i
~   ^t
.a1 .
_            t-k n.
r            +  '

314

ROSEMARY.


316                   1OSEMART.
of some one in the bank, Mr. -----. They are all re-indorsed
by the drawer i"
He gave them to Rosemary, who instantly put them into the
fire and held them down with the tongs till they were totally
consumed. The officers did not interfere. Mr. Dashon then
sent the girl to the library-desk for his cheque-book, and as
soon as she returned, filled up a cheque for the sum total of his
nephew's forgeries.

CHAPTER XIII.
"Friar. Come is the bride ready to go to church?.
"' Capulet. Ready to go, but never to return."
Romeo and .uliet.
FROM THE VICOMTE DE FLOREAL TO COUNT WISSEN.
"NEARLY a month has elapsed, my friend, since you left
me ; yet I have not written except the few lines which all
simply announced to you that my marriage was settled. How
this grand result became in so short a time an accomplished
fact, I shall apprise you in few words. You have not forgotten
that Madame Dashon had the exquisite attention for you to
cause your national waltz to be played after supper, nor what
a prodigious sensation you made in waltzing with that extremely
undressed and bediamonded Madame Varick, the cousin of
my beautiful betrothed. You will also recollect how the
daughter of Mme. Varick-the same into whose box we
intruded at the opera-waltzed with a certain Deuxtemps, fine
waltzer all the same, and how upon that Mlle. Dashon super-
vened with a message in the ear of your brilliant partner,
which caused her to retire precipitately from the ball. My
faith ! you will agree with me that mademoiselle shone out on
that occasion with a quite particular lustre. How, to prevent
any interruption to the flow of the festivity, she offered in smil-
ing her hand to you in lieu of the partner of whom her quite
mysterious whisper had deprived you! What an exquisite
effect was that which was praised and almost applauded by all
the world, of the pretty rose and white robes of the sister-like
beauties chasing each other in endless revolution round the
parqueted floor of that beau salon, conducted by us foreign
heroes ! But you know not the real heroism of Mlle. Dashon

f

2  i +


818

ROSEMARY.

that night-a behavior which has obtained for her my profound
admiration and esteem. Certes, I shall possess, besides a fabu-
lous fortune, the most estimable wife in the world, of a beauty
no less to dazzle the senses of any man.
"It was after our waltz that I availed myself of the custom
which I found universal, to invite mademoiselle to a prom-
enade through the handsome rooms. I immediately seized the
opportunity to exonerate the adorable Grace.-' Enough!' she
exclaims at the-first word. 'My friend has told me that she
is not to blame-you cannot add to that assurance !'-Then I
lay myself at her feet to fulfil the engagements made between
her grandfather Romarin and my family. You can never
divine her response.
" ' These errors of comedy,' says the beautiful one, turning
to me, and pulling to pieces a flower-' affect not the serious
duties of life: there are tragic scenes which influence our des-
tiny quite otherwise and which impose a devoir. Near rela-
tion of mine, M. le vicomte, has just been detected in a crime.
True, it is not known beyond four or five persons, all interested
in preserving the secret. Heaven knows when he will commit
another, or what accident will reveal this. You ought to
know it.'
"Imagine my answer. Unfortunately few families are stain-
less in that regard. The poor duc de Praslin was my relative.
In short, I put aside that objection as irrelevant. My vanity
does not conceal from me that she was not overjoyed at my
persistance. We were in a room, the last of the suite, where
hung two portraits of sufficient merit as works of art.-' They
are my father and mother,' said she, with a virgin blush.
'Know you the circumstances of their marriage and of my
birth V 
" I showed her the anonymous letter, which proved that I
was sufficiently well-informed.  That knowledge was now-a
merit in her eyes. I confess I was humiliated to find her so
much superior to my idea. In reading the letterfhe blushed
indignantly, and returned it, saying-' Well, monsi it i all
literally true !'-' True !' exclaimed I.-' And insini'  an in-
famous falsehood!' added she.-' I will ask an expi  on of

VICOMTE DE FLOREAL TO COUNT WISSEN.       819
your grand-parents,' responded I, wishing to spare a young
girl the necessity of approaching such a subject.-' I am not
such a child, M. le colonel,' she replied, with spirit, 'that I
cannot answer a plain question about the honor of my mother.
To me that is as simple and as holy as the sunlight shining into
a church and falling on a tombstone, even with the pavement,
where rich and poor tread, and know not that a saint lies there
beneath. I know what I am at this moment ; and such as I
am, my mother was, M. le vicomte, when she received the nup-
tial benediction.'-This was pronounced with an inconceivable
air of virtuous pride, to which filial piety added a certain ten-
derness.-' I believe it, mademoiselle,' replied I, falling at her
feet, 'as I believe the credo.'-She disengaged herself from me,
with a cheek redder than the roses on her bosom ; said-' Write,
to-morrow;' and fled. To-morrow I wrote, and punctually
received the following reply, on which I have meditated ever
since
"'M. LE COLONEL VIcoMT,' (very formal, is it not?)
' 'Grandpapa tells me that I should answer your very flat-
tering proposal in my own name. It was my duty to apprise
you of circumstances which might affect your resolution; that
done, the choice of my parents is for me the will of Providence.
That you have been similarly inspired does not fail to diminish
the apprehensions which I cannot deny I have felt, lest I should
be unable to make you happy, M. le vicomte. I have one favor-
to ask. As the time is so short, and my preparations must be
hurried, will you allow me to pass the intervening period in
retirement.
"'ROSE MARIE.'
"Behold a very singular acceptance, which is neither French
nor yet American, as you have explained to me the American
mode of arranging these affairs. In effect, the letter to which
the above is the response, was full of ardor and respect; the
sole point to which she alludes is one where I represented my-
self as guided by Heaven to the distant land where I was to
find so great a treasure as herself. You will agree that if I'had


VICOMTE DE FLOREAL TO ROSEMARY.

ROSEMARY.

flattered myself with the hope of making a conquest of my fu-
ture bride, I have signally failed.
"In fine, during the three weeks which have already elapsed,
I have scarcely seen Mademoiselle Dashon, and then only in tho
presence of her family. Of this, as a Frenchman, I have no
right to complain, although I learn that the custom of the coun-
try is very different. I ought in fact to rejoice that the manners
of my bride are those of a young French girl of rank perfectly
well brought up. She is more frank and independent, it is true;
but not less reserved. Once when I called (which I do daily) I
found her alone. Now I am told that an American girl, in
those circumstances, would sit an hour or so with her accepted
lover, and even permit him many innocent liberties at the bare
thought of which I tremble ; but Mlle. Rose Marie starts up in
confusion, drops a curtsey of the most profound, says she will
call grandmamma, vanishes. As Madame Dashon was out shop-
ping, I received presently a message to that effect by a pretty
maid-servant, but no more mademoiselle that day.
"At present it wants but a -week to our nuptials. Mademoi-
selle is in retreat. I shall not see her again till we meet at
the altar. The ceremony has been deferred till the latest
moment: at nine o'clock the nuptial benediction ; at half-past
nine a grand reception which will last two hours ; at noon
we embark on the Havre steamer. As I am a miserable sailor,
I devote the first fortnight of the 'honeymoon' (as the Ameri'
cans call it) to sea-sickness. Scarcely shall I have time to
place my bride in the Hotel Flordal, before I must set out for
the Crimea.
"The Dashons-grandpapa and grandmamma-accompany .
us to Europe. Without that, Mme. de Flordal would find her
first year of marriage too horribly dreary-her husband at
Sebastopol under the Russian batteries-her maternal grand-
father exposed to the same dangers-not a friend near her but
my family, who are yet total strangers.
"I must not forget to mention that by a special permission
the marriage will take place at Mr. Dashon's house, and that it
will be blesges by Monseigneur de New York himself. This is
done to please the Dashons, and accommodate the: gout of

grandpapa, which, between ourselves, is an excuse always
ready for everything. The arrangement does not please
mademoiselle, who pleaded hard to be married in church, but
yielded the point when she found how much the old people
were set against it. To satisfy her, a beautiful altar is pre-
pared, and there will be every ceremony except the nuptial
Mass, which Monseigneur will not permit unless we present our-
selves in church for it. Hence mademoiselle goes to commu-
nion at the convent the same morning; and I, reprobate as you
think me, remembering that I am a Flordal, a Frenchman and
a Catholic, shall religiously fulfil all the duties of the occasion
at the church of the Jesuits.
"I trust to see you. My friend, you cannot tell how my
heart misgives me. I adore my bride ; she is only a trifle too
dazzling and too perfect .for such a sinner as I. Then Miss
Grace is 'bride-maid'-sole bride-maid-to the great disgust
of numerous Mesdemoiselles Varick who pretend a nearer
claim. With infinite reluctance I have acceded to a request
of Miss Dashon, and have invited that little Monsieur Varick,
her cousin, to act as 'groom-man,' in the absence of any rela-
tive or personal friend of my own. I wished for you, my friend,
but the uncertainty of your coming on, and the doubt whether
diplomatic etiquette would permit you to accept, prevented my
speaking of it. I always suspected the little monsieur of writ-
ing the anonymous letter; that he loves his cousin to the point
of desperation I am certain ; and I think it is a cruelly mis-
taken kindness on her part to assign him thus the office, as
it were, of his own executioner. Then I tremble at the thought
of Miss Grace ! That beautiful child-is she not just fifteen 2
--has many defects by the side of the .perfect Rose: for that
reason even, she captivates my somewhat human sympathies
more. Heaven knows if ever I had a pure feeling in my heft
for one of her sex, it was .for her: I would not care to marry
her (were I free) for these four or five years; my bachelor
life does not begin to weary me yet : but how I let my pen run
on! One would say I was a girl of eighteen and not a bearded
soldier, who has seen battles and shed blood !
"Your devoted
"'FLOREAL. "

820

821


GRANDPAPA' S SEVENTY.

What grandmamma Dashon never could understand, or find
anybody else to understand, was why her husband, hitherto
simply resigned to the French marriage, became all at once the
most zealous for it of all the family. Grandmamma thought it
was very well, very well, indeed, considering the military rather
than the hereditary rank of the jeune vicomte-do you under-
stand ? and his fine personal qualifications, such as beauty,
manners, talent even, which she admitted might in some degree
contribute to the happiness even of a marquise. But grand-
papa, who appreciated all these qualities very highly, too highly,
and cared not a straw for a coronet, had always considered the
poverty of the Flordals a great objection. Wealth likes to
match with wealth, and the millionaire could not but regard
the grand marquis on four hundred a-year, as greatly inferior
to himself whose rental was easily figured at as many hundred
thousands. Mrs. Dashon was not so much surprised at grand-
papa's proposing rather than adopting the plan of accompanying
the young couple to France, and' of amusing their grand-
daughter during her husband's absence with a little tour. Their
hearts were both too utterly bound up in her, to make that at
all strange-it was inevitable. How could they leave her alone
among strangers ? What desolation that would be to a bride
of eighteen, who had never been from home, except to reside
in a convent !
Grandpapa had reasons of his own, however, which he did
not communicate to grandmamma. He had no faith in the
reformation of George Varick, Esq.; and so far as the future
use of his own name was concerned, from which he was certain
nothing but the impossibility of using it would deter him in
any place of difficulty, that impossibility could scarcely exist
unless Mr. Dashon were abroad.
4'iefore she went into retreat Rosemary had many private in-
terviews with her grandfather, at one of which, the last and the
most solemn and prolonged, "Cousin George" was present,
and made a clean breast of it. It came out, then, that it was
no temporary embarrassment, but utter ruin with which he
struggled. To be sure his forgeries, cancelled by his uncle,
had extinguished a mass of floating debt, but he was left with-

out real resources of any kind, and an overwhelming expendi-
ture. Mr. Dash on had insisted on the whole personal property
being assigned to him; he took Mrs. Varick's diamonds from
her person on the very night of the ball, in Rosemary's room,
whither he imperiously summoned his niece ; the establishment
in       street, conveyed to him, broken up, its belle crinoline
summarily sent adrift, and the costly jim-crackery with which
it was filled disposed of at auction, ceased to be a burden on his
nephew's empty exchequer; in fine the sagacious old financier,
hard as flint in his view of an offence against commercial confi-
dence, nearly indemnified himself by stripping the criminal of
every farthing of property. Then only, at his grandchild's
prayer, he made a provision for the Varicks, in reality most
ample, and intended to guard Varick himself against temptation.
"This is your last chance,," said Mr. Dashon, sternly. "I give
you the income of the generous amount which in my will is
destined for your two children. You can live on it in luxury,
without altering your apparent expenditure, and save enough
to pay off by degrees all your obligations.  You know how to
arrange that as well as I do. Do it, keep clear of the gaming
table, of politicians and fast women, keep a tight rein on your
wife's tendency to extravagance, and you may live honored and
prosperous. Your children are provided for ; you have no
need of more than your support; rich you can never be: if any
one gave you a fortune you would not keep it a twelve-month."
Varick swore a thousand oaths that he would follow his
uncle's advice to the letter. He invoked the curses of Heaven
on his own ingratitude, if he ever deviated again from the
straight path.-
"You owe everything to your cousin there," said the old
man, bluntly. "I love her, and I know she prefers the honor
of the family to gold, or I would have let the law take gs
course before I would have paid a cent to save you from the
state-prison."
"1 did it for Roosey's sake and Augusta's and cousin Isabel's,
as well as for my own, cousin George," said Rosemary. "I am
sge that you will think of your wife and children as well as of
me, and never let yourself get into difficulty again."

j t

822

ROSEMARY.

323

.4

.!,     ,r


ROSEMARY TO GRACE ATHERTOL.       825

824               ROSEMARY.

She followed him afterwards to the door, and with a bright
blush, in a whisper, advised him to go to confession. She
knew by experience that it was the only sure way to get rid
of our faults. The ex-alderman cocked his eye at her with an
expression familiar on the stock-exchange and in the neigh-
borhoo: of the City Hall. He promised to think seriously of
her advice, and even took down the name of her confessor on
his tablets.
Such was the grinning   leton concealed in this splendid
house, while the splendid mar iage came on apace. However,
t seemed that they'had got the hideous anatomy securely
under lock and key. The house over the way where the
Varicks lived, now belonged to Mr. Dashon; the furniture was
his from garret to cellar; the carriages, the horses, were his
property ; and they had the usufruct during good behavior of
their parent ; they had an assured income, sufficient to keep
the machine going; vice itself could hardly throw away so
nice a position, which, with a clean conscience and a good
digestion, would be a paradise on earth.
FROM MISS ROSE MARIE DASIION TO MISS GRACE ATIIERTON.
"My DEAR GRACE,
" I write you once more before I go to the con-
vent to make my retreat. Everything is in a state of forward-
ness, thanks to grandmamma's energy ; the trousseau is almost
complete ; as we are going direct to Paris, the articles of
dresses, laces, shawls, gloves and such trumpery are reduced to
the strictly necessary for the voyage and our first arrival; so
when you come on and wish to amuse yourself with inspecting
everything, you will find my bridal outfit distinguished rather
for elegance than profusion, excepting the line, which it be-
lngs to my dignity to be amply provided with, and which is
quite the envy of my dear cousins, who alone are permitted to
see it. Augusta, poor girl! is nearly demented about my good
fortune, and so angry that I did not at least ask her to be
bridesmaid, that she wilLiardly speak to me. She is not aware
that it is not my fault. Grandpapa interdicted it absolutely,
and you have no idea low much vexed he was that -Col. do

Floral (at my request, of course,) asked Roosey to act as
groomsman-a word which M. le colonel finds very hard to
pronounce, and an office which he seems to find nearly equal
difficulty in comprehending. My corbeille will be superb. All
the Varicks have been princely; Cousin Isabel even; I have
seen nothing yet except the pearls from the Empress, and a
set of ornaments made to match them precisely in fashion, but
with brilliants substituted for pearls, and which is grandpapa's
gift, far outshining in splendor and costliness the imperial
present! To tell you the truth, dearest Grace, this last gift
makes me tremble, as I know too much of the history of those
very diamonds ; and so fatally did it happen that Cousin Isabel
selecting some costly trinket for me at Ball's, was shown the
set partly completed, and on which they were working day
and night. Imagine her feelings ! Oh, my dear Grace, I am
so sorry I told you that night what had happened, although it
was hardly possible to avoid it when we found the diamonds
tossed on the floor of my room, here one jewel, there another,
and it became necessary somehow to explain it. Then you had
got such a foolish idea in your head (forgive me, dear!) of
sacrificing yourself to console poor Roosey, that I thought it
best to tell you. Who could suppose from grandpapa's quiet
manner and extreme gentleness to us girls, that he could ever
be so violent, and even forget (I must say) what is due to a
lady, no matter how guilty her husband may have been I
"In answer to your question, the intended marriage is not a
secret, dear, yet we say as little about it as possible. The cere-
mony will be quite private, only our relations being invited.
In regard to the reception, grandmanima has issued cards for a
grand dress matinee, such as she gives every winter, and my
card is placed in the envelope, but not Col. de Flordal's, so that
although it i doubtless pretty well understood, it is not formally
expressed that it is a leave-taking affair ; for it is known we .
all sail for Europe the name day. The general, impression
out of the family is that the marriage is to come off in Paris
and I am afraid that grandmamma is responsible for that, as
she told everybody so at first. That grandpapa 'should shrink
from the publicity that naturally attends a marriage of this


ROSEMARY TO GRACE ATHIERTON.

kind, is very natural, but I have been a little surprised that
grandmamma has the same feeling, she who is always so fond
of making a great sensation, and knows so well how to do it.
However, when the guests of the matinie (nobody will fail, I
warrant you) are introduced to 'Madame la vicomtesse do
Florall' and are shown the glittering corbeille (which is to be
laid out in the state-bedroom), and see the gift of the Empress
on the person of the bride in all its beamy lustre, no doubt it
will be a very pretty coup de theatre. At a quarter past eleven
precisely, I am to change my dress for the voyage ; at twenty
minutes to twelve, we enter the carriage ; and the steamer's
paddles are to begin to move at ten minutes past twelve pre-
cisely. As the line belongs chiefly to grandpapa, there is no
danger of our being left behind in case of accident ! So you
see everything is arranged beforehand, as when some poor
wretch is to be executed (the nearest comparison that occurs
to me), and every tittle of the programme is to be punctually
carried out ! Ah me! -dearest Grace !
"It is at least a great relief that there will be no paragraphs
in the newspapers beforehand, telling how I passed the pre-
vious night, with what.appetite I eat my breakfast, and whether
I am resigned or no to my fate! I jest, my dear child, for if I
didn't, I should blot the letter with my tears. I am not un-
happy-Heaven forbid ! The thought that I have not chosen
this, that my parents, above all my dear, dear grandpapa
Romarin have chosen for me; is infinitely reassuring. Were it,
not for that,.I never should be able. to face the tremors, the
wild Iniggivings, the panic fears, the repugnances even and
mortal shames, which sometimes come upon me with an irre-
sistible rush. I should take refuge in the convent certainly, if
I listened to these presentiments;. but I keep ng eye steadily
fixed upon the bright star of filial duty.. Col. ae Flordal is
certainly everything that a young woman in my position could
reasonably wish for, young, noble, handsome, brave, and accom-
plished. Strange as it may seem, those"considerations' do not
tranquilize me in the least.
"I look forward to the voyage with almost unmixed plea-
sure. You know I am never sea-sick, and it is a noble steamer.

Our accommodations, too, will be so ample. We have taken
three large state-rooms-one a sort of family affair for grand-
papa and grandmamma-one for me and Louise--and one for
Col. de Flordal, who honestly says that'he shall keep his berth
till we reach Havre. He suffers dreadfully on all his voyages,
and rather admits that his reason for proceeding immediately
to Washington and remaining there so long, was to get rid of
the effect of crossing the Atlantic on his personal, appearance.
Should the voyage be of the ordinary length at this season, we
shall hardly reach Paris till the 17th, and in that, case he will
not be able to rest more than a few hours before he must set
out for Sebastopol ! I pity him very much; yet I feel a strange
comfort in what to most young brides, I suppose, and to me
also under circumstances that I can imagine, would be a dread-
ful prospect, that of our being probably separated for at least
a year, while his life will be daily in danger in the trenches or
in battle. In that time, I say to myself, becoming accustomed
to consider myself as the wife of Flordal, writing to him, get-
ting his letters, hearing of his brave actions, sympathizing with
his dangers and his glory, praying for his safety, I shall end by
loving him as a husband ought to be loved.
"Adieu, my darling Grace ! I am sure that you will join me,
as you promise, at the Convent, on the eventful morn. I know'
very well that I shall be in a very different state of mind then,
from my present. .The vanities which oppress my spirit now,
-the- fears which I despise in, my innermost soul, though the
inferior nature sinks under them, will have given place to the
sacred tranquillity which one gains from reflecting on the short-
ness of life, and the single importance of fulfilling our vocation,
whatever it be. Pray for your own     .
" ROSE MARIE."
The morning came. Grace Atherton had arrived at the con-
vent the night previous, but did not see Miss Dashon whoas
the Superior smilingly informed them, was on "Mt. Thabor."
At six o'clock, on the third of February, being Saturday, at
the Mass, she saw her friend, who entered with one of the
Religious, and tcnt her place in one of the stalls. Her rapt
air, her profound recollection, awed Grace, who wept very

827

ROSEMARY.

826


TIHE VOCATION.

much, Rosemary was attired in white, with a veil on her head,
as on the day when she was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin;
she had a lighted candle in her hand, and a book before  er-
There was not a man'in the chapel except the priest and a boy
who served Mass. The nuns sung hymns and antiphons while
the Mass proceeded. Rosemary communicated, as did all the
community, it being one of the days when they received.
Grace also approached the altar, to offer her communion for
her friend. About twenty minutes after, they met in the cell
which Rose had occupied during her retreat. The two girls
tenderly embraced.
We shall not have time to breakfast, Rose," said her friend;
"I have told Madam so; it is nearly seven, you must change
your dress immediately, and get into the carriage. It will take
us an hour to reach your grandpapa's, and then you have to
dress for the ceremony. You can breakfast, you know, in your
own room."
"It would be utterly impossible for me to eat a single mouth-
ful, had I ever so much time," said Rosemary.
So Ithe white robe was slipped off, and her ordinary dress
resumed ; in a few minutes, she was completely ready. Having
received tie blessing and the embrace of the Superior and some
of her special friends, she sprang into the carriage, which
whirled away. The worthy Johnson was on the box; the foot-,
man John was behind.
"Where is your mother, Grace?" asked Rosemary.
4 At home-that is, at the house in New York. She brought
me here last night, and will be at the ceremony. So will papa."
"How kind of them both. And Bessie too V'
"And Bessie too."
Embraces and tears the only answer. Yet Mademoiselle was
quite calm, with a deeply softened look. Once only she smiled
in her wonted gay manner. It was when she said-" Oh, Grace,
.I came very near finding out I had no vocation for matrimony.
It was the toss-up of a penny, I assure you, between the two
, vows. I never decided till last night at confession!"
"And now your mind is made up V"    -
"Perfectly."

" How did the good father convince you ?"
" Well, it was very fortunate for me, you know, that it was
the day of the ladies' confession, or I should have been obliged
to go into town to see him. Not so fortunate for them, as I was
at the grille a full half hour !"-with a gay smile.
Come to the point, dear !"
" Oh! there are' several points. Thus: First Point! My
dear grand-parents, on both sides :-I am their only surviving
descendant; the whole blood of two worthy families is in my
veins; their hopes are centred in me; and they have been so
kind to me; one nursed my infancy and childhood, the others
trained my youth and surrounded me with splendor ; I ought
not to disappoint all their expectations and let their race fail,
unless my vocation is clear, and almost extraordinary. What
my duty is, ordinarily, is clear as day."
"I could have told you all that, child," said Grace, im-
patiently.
"Second Point !" pursued Rosemary, counting on her fingers.
"' In calling me to the inheritance of vast wealth, Providence
itself indicates my vocation. If I marry, grandpapa's fortune
will one day be mine, and how much good can I do with it ?
People may say that the Church is always looking out for such
windfalls, and will never suffer a pious heiress to enter the
cloister, when her doing so will divert millions from Catholic
custody ; but that is a senseless objection. God, who can either
dispense with means or employ them, as He thinks fit, may
perhaps call such an heiress to leave everything and serve Him
more by that renunciation than she could by devoting all her
wealth to pious objects ; but ordinarily He gives the wealth to
be used, and because in the actual order of His providence it
will be needed. If you take the veil, my dear child, will your
grandfather employ his enormous fortune in building churches,
endowing charities, and so on? No: he will divide it among
his other relatives, or give it to found some pernicious institu-
tion like that college in Philadelphia, or a mere secular one
like the noble library established by a rich man in this city.
And what will you not do with it, I hope, for the glory of God
and salvation of your fellow-creatures I He went on to enu-

328

ROSEMARY Y.

329


330

THE BRIDE'S HOPES.

ROSEMARY.

merate the things I could do, and would do (very artful, wasn't
it12) till my heart burned within me !"
All these wise reasonings, repeated by Rosemary almost
word for word, were uttered with a beautiful, clear, sweet
feminine intonation that would have amusingly contrasted with
the subject-matter, had not the hearer been of her own sex.
"And this settled your mind ?" inquired Grace.
" Oh, that wasn't near all. What was particularly to the
point was the answer to what I said about my feelings towards
M. de Flordal."
Grace was at once vividly interested.
"Well, he said it was not necessary I should have that
romantic attachment I might read of in foolish novels ;"-Grace
winced-" nor even that I should prefer him to all others, which
in truth, Grace, was my grand difficulty; it was sufficient,
strictly speaking, if my will-my rational will-was firmly
resolved to love him exclusively when he became my husband,
and there was a reasonable probability that I should be able to
keep the resolution. Now that simple view of my duty quite
set my mind at rest, for I have not a particle of doubt I shall
love Col. de Floreal, when I am his wife ; I already love him
so by anticipation: I should feel it to my very heart's core if he
were to be guilty of any baseness, forfeit his word, blanch in
the hour or shrink from the post of danger, Grace! ;Simply.
as his betrothed, I would die for him without a murmur-if
his life or honor were at stake ; and so much of his honor as is
committed to my keeping"-with a lofty look-"in his absence
or presence, I shall always know how to guard."
Grace looked away to hide a tear.
"After all," faltered she, "I had pictured another destiny
for you, Rose-you so fitted to inspire the romantic attachment
which Father N. pleases to decry-he's very right, no doubt"
.-with a little sob ;-" and so fitted, too (let him say what he
likes), to feel such an attachment yourself-a noble, whole-
souled, generous being, if ever there was one, Rosemary !
Don't I know you under all that regulated exterior? Well,
well! you may, but I can't-that's all !" -And Grace- fairly
burst into a passion of tears.

831

"Oh, of course every woman has that little secret spark of
romance slumbering away down somewhere in her heart," said
Rosemary, with a little tremor of the voice, though she smiled.
"But, as Father N. said at last, it is only a few years-a very
few years, my dear child ! and all will be over. Your husband
will have followed you to the grave which closes at last
over rich and poor, plain and beautiful, man and woman ; or
you will be his widow, clothed in weeds instead of the bridal
garments now ready for you-oh, it was beautiful, my dear
Grace !-and the only thing of the slightest consequence to
you then will be how you have fulfilled the duties of your
state. See how it is, Grace ! I feel quite happy now ! I see,
as it were, to the end of my life. I regret my country a little
-but there ! lat haut !"-pointing upwards--" is the true
patrie !"
Long afterwards Grace remembered these words.
Miss Dashon consulted her watch pretty often ; with John-
son's horses and driving, it was not more than half an hour
from the convent to Mr. Dashon's door; she made him go some
squares out of his way in order to stop at Dr. Mannikin's. It
was only half-past seven; the doctor was not up ; he kept them
waiting a quarter of an hour; Grace was very impatient; she
was afraid Rosemary would not be dressed in time ; but the
latter insisted. Dr. Mannikin at last appeared and apologized
for detaining the young ladies.
"Doctor," said Rose, with a blush, "I remember that you
once told me you had a sovereign remedy against sea-sickness.
I want some of it."
I thought you were never sea-sick, Miss Dashon."
"VI want some now all the same, if you please.
In about ten minutes, every one of which to Grace seemed
an age, Dr. Mannikin had put up a little packet of powders,
and written the directions for their use.
"We shall see you by and by, doctor ?" asked Miss Ather..
ton, as she raised her robe to jump into the carriage.
"Of course I shall be in at the death !" replied Dr. Ezekiel,
with his most simtor grin.
"What an expression for such an occasion !" exclaimed Grace,


TUE CUP OF COFFEE.           833

ROSEMARY.

indignantly, as they drove off. "Rose, I can't endure that
man."
"He is very skilful. Grandpapa's great regret in leaving
home is the loss of his services."
"So you are going to try if you can relieve Col. de Floryal's
7nal de mer-are you? How generous of you.!" said Grace,
ironically.
" I am sure you would be equally so in my place."
"Indeed I would not !" said Grace, with a toss of her pretty
head.
"Which of us loves him most then, I wonder," thought
Rosemary, looking out of the carriage window, and turning
suddenly pale, as they stopped at her grandfather's door.
Everybody was up and expecting them for the last half
hour. Grandmamma, completely dressed for the reception,
was in a terrible fidget at their being so late. A magnificent
collation was preparing, and the whole house was topsy-turvy.
It did not seem possible that order would ever come out of it.
But Black Jim moved about like Napoleon giving orders for a
battle.
AllMiss Dashon's trunks had been packed, locked and strap-
ped down. It was necessary to open them. One portmanteau
had been made for dresses, another for linen and underclothing,
a third for her jewels, writing-desk and presents. Not one of
them yet contained everything that was destined for it; the
wedding-dress and Grace's bridesmaid attire hung side by
side in the antique wardrobe. There were two French artists
waiting to dress their hair. This took half an hour. The
rest was a trifle. Grandmamma did not think so. She scolded
roundly.
"Two hours at least are necessary to dress a young lady
properly for her marriage-do you understandI You have
spent a whole week in saying your prayers, my child, and
crowd your toilette into an hour ! That is absurd, do you
understand ? And in ten minutes after you will be Madame la
vicomtesse !"
"Provided I look ever so pretty, grandmamma !" said Rose,
embracing her hurriedly, "you will'forgive me, won't you ?"

Grace said afterwards that Rosemary did not appear to be
agitated ; her whole anxiety seemed about being dressed in
good season and looking her prettiest, to please grandmamma.
She took her bath as usual; that could not hurt her, for she came
from it glowing like the morn; by that time Grace herself was
dressed and assisted her friend in the remainder of her toilette ;
Louise had laid everything out, so that not a moment was lost.
In fine, at five minutes to nine, Miss Dashon's bracelet was fast-
ened, her gloves were on, her veil attached. She went into
her grandmother's room to show herself; and grandmamma
criticized some points of her attire. The dress was made in a
peculiar fashion to suit her ornaments, being fastened down
the front by a chain of pearl-brooches, looped together by
strings of seed pearl. The skirt was almost hidden by point
lace and bouquets of snowy flowers, but the corsage was
entirely simple, with no ornament but the pearls and the per-
fect shape to which it fitted, so perfect that a large bouquet
placed in the bosom seemed necessary to shade down and half
hide its elegance.
"What a lovely neck you have, child," said grandmamma,
adjusting the necklace : "and the head is like an empress.
Don't look so pale, though-a little pallor is becoming in a
bride, I allow, but everything come il faut, do you un-
derstand ?"
Just then Black Jim came to Miss Dashon's own door;with
a cup of coffee and' a tiny glass about the size of Rosemary's
gold thimble, brim-full of cognac, on a tray; and she went
into her room to thank him in her gracious way for the atten-
tion, and for remembering her request, and told him to set it
down on the table.
As she had been up since half-past four, and had not tasted
a mouthful, she was very glad of it. Louise advised her to
eat a biscuit with it, for fear the brandy should fly to her head,
but Miss Dashon refused, for the reason that she would be
obliged to brush her teeth afterwards, which she could not con-
veniently do. But just as she had cleverly emptied the little
thimble-glass into the coffee, smiling at her own dexterity,
grandpapa came in, knowing she was dressed, and kissed her,

332

"


and said that Col. de Flordal had arrived, that Monseigneur
was there, and everything ready. The order was to be as in
Europe ; that is, the grand-parents entered the library (fitted
as a chapel, with a chaste and magnificent altar in white satin
and gold, and altar furniture of silver gilt-all to be presented
to the Church after the ceremony), followed by the bride and
her bridesmaid, to meet the groom and groomsman there.
Although there were only relatives present, and a few intimate
friends like the Athertons, Dr. Mannikin as family physician;
&amp;c., the room was full.
Ros mary drank her coffee.
"Leak me for one moment by myself !" said she, "I will
join yo 'n grandmamma's room, when I am ready.".
They all went out; she locked the door of her room.
"More prayers-do you understand ?" said grandmamma,
with her short, contemptuous laugh.
They could hear her dress rustle as she knelt at the little
prie-dieu close to the door. One, two, three, five minutes
elapsed.
"Come !" said grandmamma, impatiently, " this won't do.
Shall we never have done praying ' Call her, Miss Atherton."
Grace called. No answer. She knocked. No answer.
" Heavens ! she has fainted, perhaps !" cried grandmamma.
Louise pushed Miss Atherton aside, and looked through the
key-hole.
" The child has fallen!" shrieked the nurse. "I see' her
dress !",
A full quarter of an hour elapsed before the door could be
forced open. Close by it, in the corner, with her head resting
on the.kneelitig cushion of the prie-dieu, where she had grad-
ually slipped down, lay the body of RosE MARIE-already cold,
and apparently quite dead.

CHAPTER XIV.
THE TRIUMPH OF THE WICKED.
WE pass hastily over the scene of
which followed this discovery: how Drs.conf sionand distress
were summoned from the library, and the former, after a brief
examination of the pulse, and a few minutes' aplicabrnef
the stethoscope, pronounced the case beyond the reach of
medical skill; how Dr. Mannikin after similar ceremonies
confirmed this opinion by an ominous silence;  ar ceeur
and one of the clergy (Miss Dashon's confessor), called i
rom the blue room where they waited till the bride should be
at the altar, before appearing in the temporary chae saw at
once with eyes no less experienced than those of th physans,
that nothing remained for them to do in sh  e physicians
sole the survivors; how at the first word of touching  con--
tion which fell from'the prelate's urbane lips, Mr. Dashon sank
in the, arms of those around him, and was b
wandering and face distorted to a sofa, stricken with  ey-.
a dreadful sight, at which even Dr. Mannikin trembled and
grew pale. Mr. Dashon then absorbed the attention of both
the physicians. They removed him to his own room, and  ot
him into bed. Grandmamma-all white ati and iandsg
ew despairingly from the bedside of her husband  a of
her grandchild She refused to believe that Rose was dead;
she ridiculed the doctors; called herbohr   r.Vrca
old fool, and D M  m     .cr  holer brother, Dr. Varick, an
odfoand Dr. Mannikin,a traitor, ordered other phs"in
to e clld im, applied her salts to R
aesalts to Rosemary's nostrils, and
made the servants get ready sinapisms for her feet
n   the poor young vicomte! He was overwhelmed
ous, demanded to see his bride, was led in by Mr.

834

nosEMAR 2.

r
-


236              ROSEMARY.

Atherton and Father N., who whispered to him words of com-
fort. There lay Rosemary on the outside of her maiden couch,
in her bridal array; white as a snow-drift, preternaturally
cold, and already rigid as marble. The lips were closed, the
expression was unalterably placid, the whole face like a beau-
tiful classic mask carved in antique marble. All skepticism
vanished at the sight of its calm majesty. Floral was stunned
rather than agitated. The two gentlemen would have led him
away, but he refused. They left him, thinking that perhaps
when unobserved he would give way to his sorrow. Louise,
kneeling at the foot of the bed and praying as fast as her lips
could move, and Miss Atherton, standing at the head, with
hands clasped, weeping incessantly, were all who remained.
Floral turned to Grace and took her hand .
"I sail for France in two hours," said he. "I shall not see
you again; I must say one word before we part, even here.
We made a sacrifice, Grace. Providence has not willed to
accept it. If I shall escape the Russian bullets at Sebastopol,
when peace shall have been declared, I will return to New
York. I say no more."
He raised her hand to his lips ; then, turning, he would have
saluted the hand of his bride, but it was gloved ; he seemed to
hesitate about imprinting a kiss on her forehead, and half bent
over her for that purpose, when Louise sprang up indignantly
and repelled him.
"No, monsieur," she cried. "No man, living or dead, but
her two grandpapas, and her father, has ever touched that
virgin brow !"
"She is right !" said Grace, freezingly.
The young vicomte departed in silence. He took a formal
leave of grandmamma. She expressed very coldly her regrets
at his disappointment, and she brought him a letter sealed,
which had been written to him by Mr. Dashon that morning.-~
" He would have given it to you on ship-board, M. le vicomte,
and I exact of you the promise not to open it till then."
Then arrived the other physicians for whom grandmamma
had sent. Three of the most eminent members of the profes-
sion in the metropolis met Drs. Varick and Mannikin in the

THE ThIUMPH OF THE WICKED.
chamber where Rosemary lay. Grandma
present. Their verdict was instantaneous and unanimous as to
the fact; and the utter uselessness of attempting to restore
anmstin Ms.l Tshon's sinapisms were ordered away,
almost with a smile. The doctors differed extremely in their
view of the cause of Miss Dashon's sudden death. Tot Iomnines,
tof sententice. Every one had his theory.'ne co thmit
must have been a case of heart dseary. One considered that it
and related a very curious instanceinhi n praiycoe;ta
and conjectured that a prfudsemhs own practice ; the sec-
dcey   reat profound shock of the nervous system pro-
duced by moral emotion, might have been the immediate cause
of death, and quoted cases of persons dying of joy even : which
made Mrs. Dashon laugh scornfully, at ti   of  en -ch
child dying of joya b-y, t he idea of her grand-
child during of a at being married! A third hypothesis was
the bursting of an internal aneurism; and the fourth was pois-
oning. All the physicians recommended a careful autopsy,
except Dr. Mannikin, who opposed it as a thing  hc  ihu
absolute necessity wouldberepugnant tao the which without
famiy.         erepunantto the feelings of the
family._
"A coroner would order it,"
"Teei n-ne        ao     observed Dr. Varick.
"There is no need of a coroner here," saidDrMankn
"Poison has been mentioned  ," said   Dr. Mannikin.
"A supposition that science excludes," Vreic
"FYour opinion has getwih, dcreplied 1Mannikin.-
"You  opnionhasgreat weight, doctor !" said one of the
consulting physicians.
"What are the facts ?" said Manniki n. "Miss Dashon upto
the moment of shutting herself in her room, was in apparently
perfect health. It appears that she knelt down at her prie-dieu
and (according to her habit) turned her  a  he  d
opn-  a   eca   e)drc)trehr key, because the door
Opens (as we can see) directly upon it.NoaSunishrd
not a groan ; at theen- o tpo    . Not a sound is heard ;
nty gran; Vathe end of ten or fifteen minutes-well say
twenty, Dr. Varickthe door is forced, and she is discovered
lyingo the floor in such  a position, that i  h  idkeln
she would have sunk  oni stonta if she died kneeling
she  oul hav  suk down into it by her own weight.No
there is but one agent in the whole l.y of pon  capabl Now
producing death  o suddenly   'itst of poisons capable of
any kind. That is concentrated hydrocyanic acid. If Miss
Dashon has been poisoned, I do not hesitate tosay that she
15Y                                           e


THE TRIUMPH OF T'HE WICKED.

must have taken some form of prussic acid ; but in that case,
she must have taken it herself the instant the door was closed
upon her, and we should have found the bottle lying near, and
the rogm would have been full of the peculiar odor of the
'acid: whereas there is nothing of the kind."
Here Louise unlocked her mistress's wardrobe, and took out
the coffee-cup and tiny glass, with the tray.
" These," pursued Dr. Mannikin, quietly, "were found upon
the table; and by my direction Louise here put them under
lock and key. The last thing Miss Dashon was observed to do
was to drink this coffee, of which about a spoonful remains. I
suggest that it be put into a vial, and submitted to Drs. C. and
D. for chemical analysis."~~
"That will be eminently proper, but it will be a mere  fornd-
lity," said Dr. D., who was present ; "no agent which myana-
lysis can discover, would produce death in so short a time."
"Precisely," continued the toxicologist. "What, in fact, are
the known poisons ? Strychnine, which causes violent anguish
and convulsions, and leaves the strychnine grin on the counte-
nance, and the body arched with opisthotonos ; arsenic, opium,
aconite, all of which produce symptoms more or less painful and
prolonged. There is not one in the list which our actual
knowledge of their effects does not enable us to exclude. This
death has been equally sudden and painless. Except the by-
drocyanic acid group of agents, I repeat, there is none capable
of such an effect; and any agent of that group would be r-
cognizable by the peculiar and penetrating fragrance which is
sometimes exhaled by the body for hours."
The hypothesis of poison was unanimously overruled in view
of these reasonings ; but Dr. Varick persisted in desiring an au-
topsy, to ascertain the real cause of his niece's death. Then
Madam Dashon flared up angrily.i
"My grandchild shall not be touched," said she. "Is Miss
Dashon a poor girl whose sudden death may be ascribed to her
own hand, as if she had some disgrace to hide-do you under-
stand ? Such a proposition would have been more horrible to her
than a thousand deaths. She was the chastest creature that ever
put on a bridal veil, do you understand 3 Except Louise there,

her nurse, who took care of her when she was a bab
eye ever saw her otherwise than covered. I mean that hert
comparable modesty shall be respected now-she shall be buried
as she is, in her bridal dress. It is the least I can do for my
poor little Rose---she was so innocent !"
With these words, the stern and worldly grandmamma broke
out ito a loud passion of weeping. It was almost as terrible
a thing to see as Mr. Dashon's paralysis.
The next day the chemists reported that the analysis of the
coffee revealed no poison whatever; there were some  omtic
matters extremely volatile, which had been used apparently to
flavor either the coffee or the cognac; but certain  rntyn
deleterious. Under these circumstances the physicians did
hesitate to draw up a report of the death, as resulting from
some unknown cause, whether moral or-physical producing 
sudden suspension of the vital functions'; and the coroner,
after reading the certificate, and privately inspectin a coroeue
(handed him by one of the servants in an envelope), perceived
that there was nothing in the case to warrant him in holding
an inquest.
Then arose the question of the funeral. Mrs Dash
too much overpowered with grief and too much occupied with
the care of her husband, whose state required incessant atten-
tion, to give a single order. Dr. Mannikin, the family physi-
cian, and Mrs. Varick, niece of both grandpapa and   d
mamma Dashon, and now their next heir, as well as nearest
neighbor, attended to everything. The sexton of St Hubert
-Dr. Clerestory's church, and attended by all the Varick
Dashonswas called in and entrusted with the details. He
was requested not to insert any notice in the paers'-it
vlgar proceeding--but to send round invitations to all the
friends of the family. An unexpected difficulty arose in regard
to the funeral services.
As Miss Dashon was a Catholic, it was de   d
notify her pastor that any services which he thought t, should
e 'performed at the house, or the body taken to church, if
desired Grandmamma Dashon herself spoke of this as emi-
nently proper--do you understand?

I

838

ROSEMARY.

389


340                   ROSEMARY.
But when the worthy pastor called to make the necessary
inquiries, he learned that after the services, the body would be,
of course taken to Greenwood, where Mr. Dashon owned a
whole hillock crowned with wood-the finest position in the
entire cemetery. Then the priest, with infinite courtesy, re-
gretted that recourse must be had to the Archbishop, for with-
out special permission he could not perform the rites of the
church over a body that was to be laid in unconsecrated
ground. Imagine the astonishment and indignation of the
family-of grandmamma, even-at the proposition to bury
Miss Dashon in Calvary cemetery. They did not know there
was such a place-and what kind of a place '? In vain Mrs.
Atherton entreated, offering a grave in her own lot. Grand-
mamma was obdurate on that point. Rose should be buried
where her grandfather and grandmother. could afterwards be
laid by her side ; by the side of her own father, who was also
buried at Greenwood, and whose coffin was now the only one
in Mr. Dashon's solid and spacious vault. She intended to
erect the most beautiful monument over her granddaughter
that ever was seen on the continent, and the Archbishop might
bless their lot, or the vault, or the place where Rose was to lie
(if he pleased), but there, blessing or no blessing, the child
should be interred. This was said to Father L., with great
calmness, and an eye that flashed, a lip that quivered, with
pride and anger. So the end was that there were no Catholic
services over the body of the pious Rose Marie. Dr. Clerestory'
came to the house and read the beautiful service of his church,
to a crowd robed in mourning. Thus the occasion was not lost
of a great lesson to the worldly-minded. Never was the rector
of St. Hubert's more bitterly felicitous in denouncing the vani-
ties of the world. What a text did not that sumptous array,
those imperial ornaments, furnish, when they served to shroud
and adorn a corpse for its funeral ! The gilded saloons of the
Dashons echoed, amid a thrilling silence of all present, his
biting antitheses, his pungent and almost personal denuncia-
tions. If it was in some respects a false deal of the last enemy,
it is a comfort to think that the most was made of it for the
good cause. A file of carriages half a mile long convoyed

THE TRIUMPH OF THE WICKED.             341
the hearse down Broadway, over the Atlantic Ferry, down
the long and mournful road to Greenwood, traversed by so
y cofuineal processions. Arrived at Mr. Dashon's vault,
the coffin was taken out; the relatives took a last look; the
ve-r. laterestscrewed down upon the glass oval over the
fac ; Dr. Clerestory finished the impressive ceremony-"ashes
to ashes-dust to dust "-while the sexton-undertaker dropped
a little earth upon the rich black velvet that covered the
burial-case-and the living Rose Marie was left alone in the
tomb.,-


MEETING AT THE FERRY.

BOOK      III.
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.
HERE we may truly say : "Much have my books disclosed,
but the end is hidden."
CHAPTER I.
MEETING AT THE FERRY.
Tnis was the first week in May, and already the weather was
delightful. The gentlemen crossing the Wall street ferry to-
wards the hour of six, to seek their homes and dinners on the
Brooklyn side, came out of the ladies' cabin, where gentlemen
do chiefly congregate, and gathered on the guards of the boat
to enjoy the breeze from the Narrows and the view of the bay.
Few cities can boast of a finer transit between their suburbs.
New York Bay has indeed no smoking Vesuvius, no Sorrentine
promontory of crested purple, no blue Ischia and Capri, faint
as clouds, but seen with grand steep outline in the dim horizon;
the Battery is not a St. Elmo, bold, picturesque and menacing.
Yet the islands, the forts, the innumerous shipping, the white
steam-fleet passing and repassing in all directions, the sea-gus
flying, the point of the city jutting out between a greatsta of
and a great estuary, the East River receding in a fne vist o
masts and flags and ship-yards, like the Golden Horn of Stain-
boul, the blue headland of Staten Island. in the southhere
a huge black sea-steamer running up from Sandy Hook, there
a snow-white and elegantly modelled Sound steamboat gliding

out of her berth with a perfect mass of human beings crowding
all her decks: this, in the rays of the declining sun, has a
poetry of young civilization that makes amends for some
deficiencies of natural sublimity and historical tradition.
A striking feature is Brooklyn Heights. At this season their
high embankments were already green ; the shrubbery on their
terraces had already leafed out; the fruit-trees on the height
were in blossom, and the fragrance mingled with the refreshing
breath of the sea. Just where the bloom was thickest rose a
mansion of brick, stone-ped, that seemed an old family
residence, as age is counted in the New World : close by was a
new gothic church, with gr buttresses and traceried windows
and floriated cross.
Brooklyn; in one point of view a beautiful suburb, in another
is a large city. Why not ? It has gas, water (somewhat pre-
carious), a Mayor and Common. Council (as corrupt as our
own), taxes! What does it ck ? True, for libraries, picture-
galleries, newspapers (that are newspapers), and almost all
sorts of amusements, sucl as theatres, operas, negro-minstrels,
model-artists, &amp;c., thexBrooklynites must repair to New York :
still, they have a Philharmonic, an Academy of Music mnd Henry
Ward Beecher's church: so that it is not exact to say that
they are dependent on New York for the means of elegant
recreation. They are great patrons of lectures, concerts aid
sermons-are the well-dressed people who dine, lodgeand
breakfast in Brooklyn, but who live the energetic and pro-
ductive part of their lives on our side of the East River : it is
" the city of churches," as every one knows. It is also the
See of a Bigop, which anciently in Europe constituted any
place a city. And the more fashionable New Yorkeis, who do
not visit iton any other occasion, are sure to do so at last on
one oc 'on : for there ; that is, on the sof en hills beyond
it, overlooking the ocean ; lies the great metropatitan cemetery
with its charming groves, its lovely flowers and sumptuous
monuments.
But to return to the Wall street ferry-boat. There is nothing
astonishes a foreigner so much as the American ferry-boats.
In England they, have nothing like them. At Gosport, we

344

*


4

3844  'ROSEMARY.'
remember, there is a sort of floating-bridge, as they absurdly
call it, that is steamed across a tide-water, with a chain
attached, which it takes in and pays out as it slowly moves
across. But a boat crossing a foaming estuary or rapid river
at full speed, with hundreds of foot-passengers and perhaps
twenty vehicles at once, and landing all securely, comfortably,
without a moment's loss of time, is an American institution.
The boat we are watching was crowded with drays and wagons,
and among the rest was a large family carriage, got up in a
style that could not fail to attractgeneral observation. It was
one of those dark-brown coaches, silk-lined and superbly
hammercloth'd, which the wealt  st citizens of the metropolis
have recently affected. It wa  rawn by a splendid pair of'
powerful blacks, perfectly matched, and driven by a coach-
man in a black livery, with a crape on his hat. A footman,
also'in deep mourning, stood behind. The lining and hammer-
cloth also were black, with the initials C. R. D. in silver on the
latter. On the back seat sat a venerable gray-haired old man,
looking very broken in health, and perhaps in mind also-for
his glance was restless, and his lips perpetually moved without
uttering anything ; and by his side a erand-looking old lady,
with a silvery face and severe expression. On the seat opposite
her was a basket of fresh flowers, which was supported by a
handsome, stylish girl, with long auburn curls, and wandering.
light blue eyes. All three of the persons inside the coach
were in the deepest mourning.
Many of the gentlemen on the guards, while they conversed
with each other, or enjoyed the view in solitude, amused them-
selves also *ith inspecting the aristocratic eqi page, with its
superb horses, footman, liveries, and distinguished-looking
occupants. The handsome girl  came in for her full share of
these glances,.  eh she returned with that impert  ble air
of unconscioii less which a New York girl in good society
commonly acquires after the first winter or two, and. which
some young ladies indeed possess in all its perfection long
before they leave school. At the same time she manifested
:      - ' her real consciousness of the attention she attracted by talking
a great deal to the elder lady, accompanying her remarks by

MEETING AT THE FERRY.

34$

frequent smiles, and movements of what might be thought
rather a studied grace. She played with the flowers in the
basket beside her, talked about them evidently, and held up,
to admire it, one delicate and beautiful wreath of snow-white
-jessamine. The old lady replied to the young one with a lofty
courtesy, a little icy perhaps, and an occasional ironical smile.
The old gentleman took no notice of either, nor of their con-
versation, except when the young girl lifted the wreath, when
he grew excited, and interfered to make her lay it down.
A party of gentlemen engaged in earnest conversation
seemed to observe neither the fine coach nor the attention it
attracted. They were friends who had met accidentally in
crossing the ferry, and all known to us. The senior O'Morra,
with his pale aud bitter physiognomy, his tall, spare form, and
wiry elegance, was returning'to his dinner and evening's work
at home, after an exhausting day in court, where he had
argued a case four hours. His son, whose hours and method
of labor were quite different from his father's, was coming back
from a canter on the Bloomingdale road, as his high riding
boots, pulled over dark-grey pants, his dark-grey jacket, whip,
and riding-cap, sufficiently declared. Young America does
not always look well in this dashing costume, but Rory did,
which naturally implies that he had an admirable figure, as
the young lady in the carriage evidentlyghought, for she
regarded him very attentively ; with the more security, as his
attention was divided between his friends and his horse, whose
bridle was thrown over his arm as he leaned against the rail that
separated the foot passengers from the carriages. The other
gentlemen were Count Wissen, in travelling costume, valise in,
hand, just returned from Washington after an absence of several
months; and Dr. Galenson, who was crossing the ferry in his
buggy to make a somewhat needless professional visit in
Brooklyn, and who had got out to shake hands with the Count.
"What news from Washington ? Weather insufferably hot, I
Suppose 3"
"And the dust worse than the deserts of Numidia where I
used to fight the Arabs. What induced your legislators-to

S

4


MEETING AT THE FERRY.         347

select such a place as Washington for the capital of the Con-
federation, instead of New York, I cannot conceive."
" Oh, it would never do," said Mr. O'Morra, "if the political
and commercial capital coincided-that would be a central-
ization which in our system we must avoid."
" Yes : that is a feature of your intensely artificial system of
government. I object to the system. There is a natural place
in every country for the sovereign power to reside ; and to
plant it elsewhere is no less absurd than it would be (doctor)
to stick a man's head, as the ruling power, in his stomach, on
the pretext that it would then be equidistant from all parts of
the body it has to govern."
O'Morra smiled grimly at the felicitous illustration, but he
observed :-" If it were a monarchy, you would be right.. As
an old Jeffersonian States Rigbts democrat, count"-a still
grimmer smile-" I cannot agree with you."
" Ah, you are a democrat !" said the minister, laughing :
"that is to say, an aristocrat ; for I observe that in America
the terms are synonymous. Ah, well ! there is a bit of scandal
in Washington about one of your democrats. You know Mr.
Varick, I suppose,-one of the principal sachems (I think they
call it) of New York ?"
"I do not," said Mr. O'Morra, with some haughtiness.
"Why, he is  democrat also," said the count.
'"Ah, count, you are not skilled in conchology, I see !" inter-
posed Galenson, laughing. "Mr. Varick is a soft-shell, and
Mr. O'Morra a hard-shell democrat. It is the bitterest differ-
ence known in politics."
" Ah! a hard-shell! Mr. O'Morra is a hard-shell'?" replied
the count, puzzled, but laughing as if he understood it.
"Well, what rascality has Varick been perpetrating now '"
asked O'Morra. "Has he picked a pocket, or committed mur-
der ? for otherwise I cannot conceive how he should attract
public attention."
"Well, you've hit surprisingly near ; but as the charge is
bruited by his enemies, and there may be no truth in it, you
will excuse my not entering into particulars here. So, doctor,
how is your fair patient at Miss Tankerville's, may I ask 'I"

"Miss Marie's health seems now, I am happy to say, per-
fectly re-established. I believe she appears at dinner with the
family for the first time to-day."
Both the count and Rory O'Morra reddened--in the former
'a most unusual occurrence: but there is one natural emotion
the expression of which on the countenance not diplomacy
itself was ever able to suppress.
" Her incognito is then still preserved ?" demanded the count,
glancing at Mr. O'Morra.
"My father knows all about it," said Rory.
"It would have been cruel to seek out her parents, while
her life was an extreme uncertainty," observed Galenson; "and
since she has been able to express a wish, it has been for
secrecy, which we have scrupulously respected."
" You were perfectly right," said the count, with emphasis.
"In restoring her prematurely to her family, ignorant as we
are of the circumstances, we might be pushing her back into
the lion's den."
Meanwhile the boat had come to a full stop, in consequence
of a large fishing smack coming down under full canvas be-
tween her and her berth, when according to the laws of the
port and the waters the steam-vessel had to give way. Turning
round to see what caused the detention, our friends simulta.
neously observed the mourning carriage.
"They are going to Greenwood, doubtless," observed Mr.
O'Morra, in the dry tone in which men of the world speak of
these things.
"It is rather late unless they mean to arrive precisely at
sunset," remarked Galenson, consulting his watch. "Talk of
the devil"-added he, glancing at young O'Morra. "You and
I have seen that young lady before, Rory."
" I don't remember where," said Rory, who did not recognize
Augusta in her deep mourning.
But the count recognized immediately both her and grand-
mamma, the latter of whom bowed, though distantly.
" Ah, I must speak to them," said the Minister, advancing to
the carriage window.
." I am very happy to see yotr excellency. again," said grand-

.I

ROSEMARY.


MEETING AT THE FERRY.

849

mamma, in a tone which said the very reverse.  ' It is a long
time since we met. Mr. Dashon, this is Coiut W issen, whom
you, remember. Ah, excuse him, count-b -, members no
one, do you understand '?-no one butr-ah! you remember her,
count! It was a terrific thing-was it not I  he was full of
life and happiness but the moment before. We but turned our
backs and she was dead ! You have heard all the circum-
stances from your friend ?"
" Floral sailed, you recollect, two hours after," replied the
Minister, "and it was not till he reached Paris that he wrote
me. I got the letter in Washington a fortnight since, on my
return from a trip South."
" Ahi! then you know very little. Her grandfather has
never recovered it. A perfect wreck, as yon see. He has only
sense to know his darling is dead. We go every afternoon to
Greenwood to lay a fresh wreath on the coffin. Do you know
that we buried her in her bridal attire, count, the pearls of the
Empress and all, do you understand ? I resolved that nobody
else should ever wear or possess them, do you understand ?"-
With a very stern look, and glancing bitterly at the unconscious
Augusta.-" One day I mean to go to Paris, and thank her
Imperial Majesty for the gift to my child, and tell her that
Rose, having once put them on, never laid them aside, and
that she will wear them forever-do you understand 'U-With
her short, bitter laugh.
"T should fear such things might not be secure even in a
vault," observed the count, glancing up at Johnson, who leaned
slightly over the side, red in the face as a turkey-cock.
"Oh! perfectly safe ! our vault has a bank-safe lock. Le
grand liable himself could not pick it, do you understand '
You could not open it in a hundred years with the -key, unless
you had the secret. I can't open it myself-nobody in the
house can but Johnson, my coachman-as faithful a fellow as
ever breathed, do you understand ? But the boat is up at last.
Adieu, ill. le ministre. I shall be pleased to see you, if you
think proper to call upon an old woman who has lost every-
thing worth living for."
The boat had touched the swing platform; the chains

creaked ; the rushing crowd bore our pedestrians on; - ory
had mounted his horse, which was restive at the concussion
and the noise, and backed close to the carriage-window
Augusta affected to be frightened and screamed. At that
Johnson leaned back insolently and touched the horse on the
back with his long whip. The animal sprang forward and with
one bound cleared both the chains, nearly throwing his rider
against the beams of the bridge. Then the chains were thrown
down and the carriage rolled on. Rory said nothing, but looked
at Johnson, and bowed to the ladies, as it passed. His temper
was fortunately as good as his seat. The carriage turned immedi-
ately down towards the Atlantic ferry, the road to Greenwood.
In a moment it was flashing along directly under Miss Tanker-
ville's house, where at the same time Rory could perceive in
the balcony of what was formerly his own room, the figure of
a lady in white, who by her action seemed to watch it with
much interest as it passed beneath her.

848

ROSEMARY-.


DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.

CHAPTER II.
DINING wITH THE BOARDERS.
MIss TANKERVILLE's boarders experienced a'sensation when
the mysterious invalid made her appearance for the first time._
The ladies had all called upon her previously, except a certain
Miss Graves, a music-teacher, who perhaps feared to intrude ;
and a certain Madame d'Ehrenstein, Graefinn von Ehrenstein,
a friend of Count Wissen's, who probably feared to compromise
her own dignity, not knowing who "Miss Marid" might be.
The question who Miss Marid was, had not indeed received
any satisfactory answer.-" A friend of Mr. Rory O'Morra's,"
was the most intelligible, as well as the most plausible. Mr.
Rory and his great friend Count Wissen had brought her to the
house from a party (so it was believed), in a state of insen-
sibility, and she had occupied ever since Mr. Rory's room.
The ladies' generally received theory was that Mr. Rory had
run away with her, and some said they were on the point of
marriage when the illness supervened which had turned out so
much more serious than any one anticipated. Three entire'
months had elapsed since she had been brought to the house;
old boarders had moved away, new ones had come, and felt
little curiosity about Miss Marie, till they imbibed it by sym-
pathy. All were delighted to learn that at last they were to
have an opportunity of seeing the young lady herself, criticizing
her dress, her manners and her beauty, and observing how she
would behave towards the gentlemen who were understood to
be responsible for her.
It was a new scene for Rosemary : so many people of differ-
ent names, families and professions, with such obvious and
marked distinctions in appearance and manners, yet not assem-
bled as guests, all equally at home, and as it seemed to her

almost impertinently at their ease ; she had never felt under so
much restraint in her life. The gentlemen were all introduced
to her by young Mrs. Varick, Miss Tankerville's married sister,
Miss Tankerville herself being too busy for the office. What
added to the mystification was that Mrs. Varick introduced
Miss Marie as "a cousin of Capt. Varick's," which, if any
doubt had previously existed of Marie being a real name, com-
pletely removed it. Mr. Rus6, who was a foreign consul, knew
several Marids, wealthy merchants, both in New York and at
Antwerp, but failed to elicit from Rosemary a statement of the
particular branch to which she belonged. She simply replied
that her father was never in business and had been dead many
years. A Mr. Seymour, whose wife had called on Miss Mari6,
-their room was next hers-made her a most verbose and
flourishing compliment on her restoration to health, in lan-
guage rather high-flown and not always grammatical; in reply
to which he received a very gracious smile and "thank you,"
and retired, convinced, as was Mrs. S., that he had made a
beautiful speech. The dissipated Bill Forrester, a man six
foot three, with a brown beard a foot long, a large beautiful
white hand, and faultlessly got up for dinner in ample crimson
velvet waistcoat and gold buttons, and a profusion of exquisite
linen adorned with diamond studs, bowed low to Miss Marid,
offered her his great white hand with paternal affectionateness,
and expressed the general delight of all the old bachelors on
his story at her recovery, with so much archness and mellow
humor, that Rosemary laughed frankly, while she affected not
to see the proffer of his hand. Forrester pronounced her a fin-
ished coquette.
In the midst of this entered Count Wissen and Mr. Rory
O'Morra with Dr. Galenson, who had accepted an invitation to
dinner.
" Ah !" said Wissen, " there she is in the west window !
White muslin to the throat, and a rose sash-simple and exqui-
site as a flower !"
" I should not have known her !" said Rory.
"It has to m   all' the effect of an apparition," said the
count. " Docto;r! I honor your skill and envy your triumph a,

351


DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.     353

RoSIMARY.

such a moment. To think that we should ever have seen that
enchanting form laid out in a coffin! Can you fancy, O'Morra,
that your too fortunate hand-?"
"Hush !" said Rory, impatiently.
"Well, let us go up and speak to her."
"You forget that she does got know either you or me. Dr.
Galenson must introduce us."
"Oh, yes, doctor ! by all means introduce me to Miss Mari,"
said Count Wissen, with a peculiar smile ; "and I will present
O'Morra."
The young lady received Count Wissen's profound bow with
a bend as gracefully reserved as if she had never set eyes
upon him before ; yet as she raised her head some might have
marked a glance of intelligence pass between them; but the
count slightly turning in his courtly way, said:
"Permit me, Miss lMiarid "-with a slight emphasis on the
name-" to introduce my very intimate friend, Mr. Rory
O'Morra."
The young lady hesitated a moment-appeared half discon-
certed at something in the bearing or figure or face of the tall
and handsome youth who bowed before her-then with a frank
movement extended her hand.
"I cannot affect ignorance," said she, in a sweet low tone,
"of the many obligations I am under to Mr. Rory O'Morra."
"You overpower me, madam !" says Mr. Rory, without the
slightest hesitation raising the hand to his lips.
"You seem to have forgotten me," pursued the young lady
with a deep flush, while the others drew aside and left them
together in the window.
"Forgotten you, Miss MariC ! I saw you under circum-
stances-so very-different," stammered Mr. Rory.
Rosemary smiled: "I do not refer to that-I can well be-
lieve I am changed since that dreadful night. But long before
.-weeks before at least-do you not remember, Mr. O'Morra,
going home with --"
"Not another word !" exclaimed Rory, impetuously, all the
blood in his body rushing to his cheek; "Is it possible you
are that young lady I I accuse myself," added he, penitently,

"of not even looking at her face-so I could not without a
miracle remember it."
"I remembered you the first moment you entered the room,"
said Rosemary, frankly.
But just then the count advanced with a lady on his arm,
and apologizing to O'Morra, said to Rosemary :-
".The Countess d'Ehrenstein wishes to know you, Miss
Marie."
" Any friend of M. de Wissen I shall always know very
pleasingly," said the countess.
"And this is Mile. Ang6lique d'Ehrenstein, or if you please,
the Countess Angelica," pursued Wissen, drawing forward a
very simple child of ten years.
Again Miss Mari6's dark eyes flashed a recognition, and one
which sent her blood back from her tell-tale cheek to the
heart: for this was the plain, motherly lady who was leaning
on Col. de Flor6al's arm the first time she ever saw him, when
she went to the Amboy boat for Grace. She had not reco-
vered from this little shock, when Mr. Cahal O'Morra came in
just as the dining-room doors were thrown open, approached
Miss Mari immediately, shook hands with her without any
introduction, and led her in to dinner.
It was about the liveliest dinner-table to which Rose
Dashon had ever site down. At first the conversation ran
upon herself, or rather her recovery, on which Dr. Galenson
was highly complimented. Galenson modestly disclaimed the
merit of the cure, and Mr. Rus6, a pallid, quiet person, who
said very bold things with extreme suavity, deplored that Miss
Tankerville had not invited Dr. Mannikin to share Dr. G len-
son's ovation.
"I asked him once before you all, and he declined," said
Miss Tankerville.
"I was so sorry you didn't insist," said Mrs. Seymour. "I
think him so interesting."
"You are not the only married lady of that opinion," said
Rus6.
"Fie! Mr. Ruse, how can you be so malicious !" cried
young Mrs. Varick. "Do you forget that Dr. Mannikin is

X52

47)

oc


DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.

Miss Tankerville's cousin V'-Mrs. Varick always called her
sister "Miss Tankerville."
"I had heard so," said Ruse. '' It must have been very
gratifying to him to find his cousin so comfortably arranged-
nice silver-pretty curtains and all that!"
" Ah ! that is the most diabolical satire, Rus6! You are too
bad, eh ?" said Forrester, enjoying it evidently.
"Well, for my part," said young Mrs. Varick, "had I been
in Miss Tankeiville's place, I would not have asked Dr. Mannikin
to stay on that occasion. It was just a little cut-I understand
that-but I think it would have been more dignified in Miss
Tankerville to take no notice of him."
" I observed that you turned your back on him with a great
deal of dignity," said Rus6.
Everybody smiled. Mrs. Varick had the air of being about
seventeen years old, she was petite, a piquant figure, the face
of a doll, soft blue eyes, an innocent pouting girlish mouth:
her turning her back with a great deal of dignity on anybody
was a funny idea. Starting from that, Mrs. Varick was rallied
a good deal, and the jests were sometimes alarmingly free.
Boarding-house life is like that even in its most refined aspects.
People become immensely familiar, and there is almost always
some one who either by uncommon innocence, or by knowing
too much, acts as a provocative to a species of wit which will
not bear recording. Mrs. Varick was a rare instance of this
kind : she never understood anything except in the most literal
sense, repeated with bewilderment the sauciest equivoques and
could not imagine why the gentlemen laughed. Miss Tanker-
ville contributed to the piquancy of the married lady's igno-
rance by knowing everything, on the contrary : the contrast
was an endless charm to students of character like Russ and
Forrester. This was all very well so long as it was confined to
these adroit foreigners and men of the world, but when Mr.
Seymour, who fancied he had wit too, tried his hand, the
hounds were harked off at once, for it was known by expe-
rience that something quite terrible was coming.
By way of diversion, every one indulged in the most start-
ling criticism on the dishes, so that Rosemary felt extremely

pained for Miss Tankerville till she perceived that that lady
only laughed and said, answering her look of astonishment:-
"Everybody here speaks out before everybody without regard
to my feelings"--with the most unconcerned smile-" it is the
wazy of the house."
"We have to take it out in talking," said Rus6: "the dinner
does not improve, say what we will."
"Yes," said Forrester, "Miss Tankerville insists on boiling
the mint sauce. I move we put it to vote whether that shall
be endured any longer, merely because she thinks it correct."
" Hot mint sauce ! Never heard of such a thing in my life
before," said one.
"Was that an idea of your cousin Dr. Mannikin's, Miss
Helen ?" asked another.
"It is absurd, I know," said Miss Tankerville, "but if you
had not that to complain of, it would be something else."
"She treats us like so many children," said Mr. O'Morra
wickedly.   .
" ga ira," said Rus6.
"Make a graceful concession, Miss Helen," said Count
Wissen. "Monarchs have lost their thrones by not yielding in
time to the popular voice. Hot mint sauce-"
. "Is against the sentiments of this enlightened community,"
said Mr. Seymour.
At last Miss Marid was appealed to, who was obliged to con-
fess that to her it was a novelty, but then her experience was
limited. This decision, and the disappearance of the lamb,
sauce and all, finished the debate.
In the midst of this clatter of tongues and dishes, Wissen
continued to address a good many observations to the aston..
shed Rosemary, under cover of the French language and in a
low voice.
"This is a gay society, Miss Rose.-if you will pardon me for
calling you so."
"Oh, very gay !" said Rosemary, laughing: "a little too
much so for my quiet tastes. Does Madame d'Ehrenstein
like it?"
"She wishes to learn English," said Wissen. "Besides, you

855

854

ROSEMARY.


356

ROSEMARY.

will find here by and by a great deal of refinement and beauti-
ful culture, which are just now in the background."
"I hope so," said Rosemary.
" The dinner is excellent, after all," said the'count.
"I suppose it is a very favorable specimen of boarding-
house life."
" Probably there is not another such family either in Brook-
lyn or the metropolis."
"Nothing would induce me to live so, but sheer necessity,"
said Rosemary. "Why, M. le comte, think how I have been
brought up ! How long would the fine bloom last, think you,'
under such rude brushing ? I tremble to think of it."
"What will you do ?"
"Fly. I would rather live in a garret and dine on a crust
than expose myself to such a danger. Fortunately there are
convents."
" I don't see the necessity of either alternative for you," said
the count, lowering his tone. "A few days, I trust, will restore
you to your home and rightful position. I saw your grand-
parents.to-day."
Rosemary turned pale, and listened.
"They are dreadfully broken-especially your grandfather.
Some discretion must be used in imparting to them the fact of
your existence."f
"I must talk to you about this by and by," said Rosemary.
" How did grandmamma seem 1"
"The same as ever, but older, sterner, more implacable-if
I may say so."
" Ah! there it is! ier vengeance for this will be dreadful.
Grandpapa would spare-she will not. And on whom will her
vengeance fall? On those who after all are my own blood.
Dreadfully near-some of them ! Oh, Count Wissen, my
father's friend ! you know not what discoveries I made in that
terrible trance. I heard everything that passed, for I know
not how long ! People spoke in the ear of the dead what for
the world they would not have had known by the living !"
"What steps have you taken since ?"
" Written to my grandpapa Romarin-that is all. I shall do

DINING WITH THlE DOARDERS.            357
nothing further. till I hear from him--I have dismissed ever
other question from my mind."
"Allow me one more inquiry, though unjustifiable. My poor
friend Flordal ?"
"That is a perfectly permissible question, dear Count Wis-
sen," said Rosemary, almost tenderly, and looking him straight
in the face. "What has happened was a real Providence for
Col. de Flordal and myself. The tie so nearly knit, is now and
for ever impossible. Were my cousin Flordal the only man left
in the world I would not marry him now."
"We must change the theme-even in French it is not safe,
with so many foreign ears about us. By-the-by we are all
Republicans here, and you, I think, are a royalist."
"An imperialist," said Rosemary.
"Oh! then you believe in Louis Napoleon Bonaparte ?"
"He is the greatest sovereign in Europe."
"Lovely enthusiast 1"
"Not at all, your Excellency :-I only say what 1 have
always heard from others wiser than myself. The Emperor is
a true son of the church."
" Perhaps. He has hitherto found it convenient to concil-
iate the church's support to his dynasty."
"He restored the Pope, your Excellency."
"And wrote the letter to Edgar Ney, Mademoiselle."
"What letter was that ?" asked Rosemary.
"One in-'which Louis Napoleon, then President, prescribed
to the Pope whom he had restored, a programmae which annihi-
lated the Papal sovereignty and justified the Revolution."
"What did the Pope say to that ?"
"He did not comply-he temporized, as Rome always does
when she has to deal with wrongheaded emperors who wish to
serve her against her will. But Napoleon has never retracted
his letter."
"What does your Excellency think of the government of
Rome ?"
"That depends entirely on one's point of view: you know
that I am not a Catholic and that my government is a Protest-
ant Power."


358                   ROSEMARY.
"That is why I take an interest in knowing your Excellency's
opinion."
"Without Rome, Mademoiselle, religious unity would dis-
appear from Europe, and society would dissolve."
"That is not answering my question, M. le comte."
"You refer to the temporal government of the States of the
Church ''
" Yes: everybody abuses it: even Catholics apologize for it
with timidity : you tell me that my favorite Emperor, Napoleon
himself, who saved the Pope, wants it to be reformed."
The count regarded her attentively, and with some surprise:
he was not prepared for so much precision of thought in a
young lady. Although the tone of the conversation was very
quiet, by degrees everybody was listening ; even the pretty
Mrs. Seymour, listening to Ernest Claviger's graphic account
of a musical entertainment by the Philharmonic, was so dis-
tracted that she replied in the most absurd manner.
"A government is good relatively,,Mademoiselle. That of
Rome taxes the people more lightly than any other in Europe;
the people are happier, more moral, better fed, better clothed,
suffer less from pauperism and misery, than the people of
England; there is less crime than in the United States, the
cities are better policed than here, the schools are at least as
good, the universities are infinitely superior, the circulating
medium is sounder, the system of business is safer, fortunes are
more equal, and the pleasure of living is tenfold greater for
every class of society, except for those who are discontented
with the government."
"Why are they discontented ?"
"For the same reason that the gambler prefers the feverish
excitement of play to the quiet pursuits of industry, or even to
the easy disbursement of an hereditary fortune. The peoples
have tasted the sweets of such a perilous game as modern
commerce, on the credit system, offers to them, and they long
to participate in it: they are thirsting for material enjoyments,
noisy pleasures, wealth, luxury and power. The highest posts
in the Roman States are given only to ecclesiastics, that is, to
men who in great part have renounced the world, and who

DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.     359

cannot marry: the ambitious laity want a system-under which
they can become ministers of State and foreign embassadors:
voild tout."
"It seems to me, Count, that the ambition you describe is
not altogether culpable. I should not enjoy living in a country
where my father or brother or (if you please) my husband, was
excluded from the highest posts which are open to laymen in
other States. It is a humiliating position."
" Ah !" said the Count, "you are in favor of secularization."
"What does your Excellency think of it ?"
' Secularization would destroy the ecclesiastical principality,
which is the keystone of society in Europe for more than a
thousand years."
"Then it would be a great evil."
"Yes; if that society be worth preserving."
"Louis Napoleon has 'saved society," said Rosemary,
smiling.
"As a gendarme who runs a burglar through the body,
saves your house from being broken into. I don't admit that
the gendarme thereby acquires the right of pulling the house
down about your ears."
"I see that your Excellency does not like the Emperor of
the French."
"I distrust him."
"I imbibed imperialism-not with my mother's milk," said
Rosemary, smiling half mournfully-" for, alas ! I never tasted
that sacred nourishment ; but in my earliest infancy."
"As my young friend O'Morra has Republicanism," replied
the sagacious Minister. "I must get you to convert him."
"Oh, I have no talent that way, to say nothing of the imper-
tinence," said Rosemary, suffering her dark eyes to be hidden
under lids so beautiful, and fringed with such long brown
lashes, that you would swear 'twas her loveliest expression.
"I observe that you take a flattering interest in my young
friend, after all," pursued the relentless Minister, with a mix-
ture of admiration and jealousy.
He is so handsome and I~ am only eighteen, your Excel-
lency is aware," replied the young lady, lifting again her dark.


860                ROSEMARY.

bright eyes, with an expression so penetrating, so malicious
almost, that the -diplomat felt himself ~foiled ; and whether it
was innocence defending with native arms a guileless secret, or
coquetry opening a masked battery in attack, he knew not.
The address, not to say the dissimulation, of a girl of eighteen
was on these points more than a match for the most ruse
diplomatist: it was nature versus art.
Almost every gentleman at the table had his own wine, and
some of two sorts, an expensive item, especially as an old-
fashioned custom seemed to exist of challenging the ladies.
Rosemary soon had four or five little glasses of wine ranged
about her plate, till Miss Tankerville. suggested to her that it
was not necessary to accept further than by filling her glass?
from any decanter she preferred, and Wissen, also with a smile
at her inexperience, placed his sherry at her disposal. When
the cloth was removed, Mr. O'Morra, senior, quietly gave her
health, with a welcome on her first appearance in the family.
As the party was now become very social, this toast was drank
with all the honors, and Rosemary, recovering herself easily
after the first confusion, requested Mr. Rory to return thanks
for her, adding:
"It is not the first time, Mr. Rory, that you are my knight."
"I am delighted to hear that, my boy !" cried Mr. O'Morra,
whose bitter blood flowed in a more genial current after a
little good sherry.
Rory was on his legs in a moment: a little cheer greeted
him. It so.happened that he had never made an after-dinner
speech in his life.
"Ladies and gentlemen," said he.-All were silent as the
grave.-" It is needless to say how-unequal I feel myself to the
occasion (hear, hear ! from papa). A young lady whose first
.        introduction into-our happy and friendly circle (hear, hear!)
has been greeted by us all with-unparalleled but just enthu-
siasm (cheers and little taps of fruit-knives on the mahogany),
has selected me in spite of my-my youth and inexperience--
(never mind your youth, Mr. Rory!) to return thanks in her
name (good !). Her choice fills me with confusion (don't be
afraid, Mr. Rory !), when I think how many others there are

DINING WITH THE BOARDERS. -61,
more capable of doing credit to it, being the youngest man at
the table, I believe---.."
" Say the youngest gentleman," corrected Mr. Seymour,
nodding over his glass to the orator.
"But when I think of the charming person I represent (a
little quiver of the voice, scarcely perceptible), I must main-
tain that she could not have chosen more wisely ; for it is not
the merit of the representative that you are to regard, but the
merit of the person represented." (Hear, hear ! with great
vivacity.)
Miss Mari interposed-women always interrupt in these
cases-by saying: "When you speak in my name, Mr. Rory,
you ought not to spear; in my praise."' Her cheek was scarlet.
"I am desired not to praise my fair principal," resumed
Rory, with a profound bow to tle interrupter ; "although I
believe that an ambassador (his Excellency C6ant Wissen will
correct me if I am wrong) is always at liberty to extol the vir-
tues of his sovereign"-(" Really, the boy is making an excel-
lent speech !" said papa, glancing round the table). "But as
obedience is the first duty of a subject, I shall not enlarge
upon what is so obvious to us all. Miss Marid, ladies and gen-
tlemen, thanks you for the very obliging manner in which you
have received the toast which the 'governor' has so obligingly
given ; she is especially grateful for the welcome of which.it
assures her, on the part of a circle, composed chiefly of old
friends, or old friends of old friends (good! from the count),
who, under the graceful presidency of our excellent Miss Tan-
kerville (cordial applause), form almost one family (Quite!
Mr. Rory !)-form quite one family (cheers). She accepts that
welcome in the saie spirit in which you offer it ; she will con-.
sider herself henceforth at home here, as we are (Exactly!);
and I will venture still further to interpret her wishes by giving
in return the health of Miss Tankerville." (Uproarious applause
n which Rosemary joins, playfully clapping her white hands).
Miss Tankerville waited for the toast to be drank, and then
rose. As soon . as the folding-doors were closed upon the
ladies, Mr. O'Morra said :-" Well, Count, what is your opinion
of your fair neighbor V'y
16


362               ROSEMARY.

rF '
F
}
A.
h,

"I would prefer to hear that of some one else, as I own I am
quite dazzled," said M. de Wissen, lighting a cigar.
" It was remarked by Mrs. Seymour," said that lady's hus-
band, rather solemnly,-" and I think that my wife's opinion
in regard to her own sex is almost invariably correct-that
Miss Marie seemed used to gentlemen's society, and-as Mrs.
Seymour also remarked-to the society of highly cultivated
gentlemen. For example, she had no difficulty in conversing
with Count Wissen on topics that few ladies are capable of
handling, and especially young girls of Miss Marie's age."
Forrester mumbled over his wine that Miss Maris did not
strike him as used to gentlemen's society, but as used to the
society of Count Wissen; but the kynness of this observation
was lost in the extreme rl.lowness of its delivery. Ernest
Claviger-a young English merchant, fair, ingenuous and
pleasing-opmnng his blue eyes very wide, and speaking, like a
young Englishman, with vast hesitation, but wholly unembar-
r.ssed, and with many an " Aw" and " a-a-a," thought that
Miss Mari6 was-" a-a-a-not exactly used-aw-to society"-
Ernest was very current in the local tip-top circle of the Brook-
lyn suburb-" he thought not-a-but-aw-in short, a very,
very beautiful girl, no doubt !'-with an air of profound con-
viction. Mr. Rus6 criticised her extreme self-possession: he
liked to see young girls more bashful and timid-" teemeed,"
as he pronounced it.-" American girls were all so"-Mr. Ruse
did not finish the sentence, but left you to infer that in his
opinion the young females of this country were quite deficient
in a certain retiring modesty.
"Her manners are perfectly charming, upon my word ! Pass
the port to the count, Rory. What a carriage ! graceful as a
floating swan !" said the elder O'Morra, sipping his port.
"Timidity is a very good thing in its way, Ruse6; but the most
timid, retiring manners I ever saw in a woman were those of a
lady whom I prosecuted for poisoning her husband. Pr.
Galenson says nothing V"
"I have paid my last visit," said Galenson, smiling, "and
feel too sentimental and melancholy to hazard any observation."
Galenson, in fact, had been quite transformed in the course

DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.             363
of his attendance on Miss Marie6: he was no longer the same
jolly fellow,
"I hope Miss Mari has paid you well doctor ?" said Mr.
Seymour.
"Generously..-like a princess!" said Galenson,with some
emotion,
"Got lots of tin," mumbled Forrester, in the same inexpres-
sibly juicy tone as before. "Jewels and lace and moi-e anti
and plenty of bank-notes, and knows these foweign counts like
her pa and ma !"
"And how goes sculpture, Mr. Rory ?" inquired Wissen,
willing to change a topic not too agreeable to himself, and
very disagreeable, he perceived, to his young friend.
"Oh, you have not heard of Mr. Rory's grand success at the
Exhibition ?" asked Ruse, who still dabbled in newspapers.
" Mr. Rory has had a grand success ' That's excellenta..-.a
glass of port upon that, Mr. O'Morra."
Papa fidgeted.
"The finest bust exhibited this year-a most lovely thing-..
the drapery so elegant yet so simple !"
"Mrs. Seymour says the features are very much like Miss
Marid," observed Mr. S.
" That eternal Miss Marie !" said Rus6, in an undertone.
" Infwe-nal Miss Mawid !" mumbled Forrester, more and more
indistinctly.
"It is quite the topic among the artists," said Ernest Claviger
who knew all Bohemia, and prided himself greatly .thereon
"The drapery,. as Rus6 says, is, exquisite."
"The d.wapewy," said Forrester, who- knew more about art
than all the company, except young O'Morra, and kindling up
to hear such a false criticism--" th dwapewy is--no account
Wat makes the dwapewy so pwetty Is the fwawm--the fwawm,
I say-modelled unde-w-it. Dwapewy !"
Ernest Claviger undertook to describe the bust, which was
called "The Bride," 'and had attracted universal admiration,
as well as created some perplexity. . The head, it seemed, per-
fectly classic and noble, was attired in a veil of point lace
exquisitely imitated, with a wreath of flowers finely treated.:


DINING WITH THE BOARDERS.

The veil flowed back, the light texture wandering over hair
and pendant flowers and the sloping shoulder. In front the
bust and so much as was included of the large arms, were
covered with a vesture of absolute simplicity, of a texture that
was perfectly pliant to the shape, among the soft Folds of
which hung a large polished medal confined by a ribbon. The
ornate treatment of the head and the breadth and simplicity of
the bust, made an admired contrast.
"I must see it," said the count.
Meanwhile the ladies had mostly dispersed to their several
rooms. Miss Mari6 remained to chat with Madame d'Ehren-
stein. The countess had sat at the other end of Miss Tankerville's
long table, so that she could not in the general hubbub of
foreign tongues around her distinguish what passed between
M. de Wissen and the beautiful stranger, but she was too
practised not to detect that this was not their first acquaintance,
in spite of the Minister's formal bow and the young lady's
ceremonious inclination when they met. This quickening her
memory, enabled her to recall what Mlle. Angelique was the
first, with a child's promptitude, to point out.
" Chire maman ! it is the young lady of the fine carriage,
who met the pretty young lady of the rail-car, that M. de
Wissen and M. de Flordal so much admired."
"Thou art right," said her mother. "But say thou nothing,
child. We shall see."
In her own country, at hotels, watering-places and so fortf,
Madame d'Ehrenstein was used to fight shy of all agreeable
and anonymous female strangers. Neither fine dress, nor
jewels, nor finer manners, made the least impression on her ; she
had seen all that in the most desperate adventuresses. Even
youth and beauty were no criterion in her experienced eyes.
But apart from the guarantee of M. de Wissen, there was a
mysterious cachet-a stamp of genuine and candid maidenhood
--the spotless lily seal on the brow and in the smile of Rose
Marie, that no woman could be deceived in. So Madame
d'Ehrenstein, cautious and vigilant, and unsparing in her
notions of birth and breeding, who would not allow Mlle.
Angelique to form any intimacies with Miss Tankerville's

boarders, took her old-fashioned German knitting, while Miss
Marid busied herself with some crochet,-a real woman's
fingers, no matter what her rank, are never idle-and let
Angelique nestle by the young lady's side, and accept an invi-
tation to visit her room, and gossiped into a violent intimacy
in comparing America with Europe. Rosemary liked the
plain, shrewd, motherly but withal high-bred and haughty
countess very much ; the presence of such a person in the
family made her feel at home ; there was a protection in it
which no one else certainly-not the vivacious Miss Tanker-
ville, not the baby Mrs. Varick, not the penetrating Mrs.
Seymour-could supply ; a woman of the world, whose expe-
rience could judge her conduct; a woman of rank and repute,
whose word would vouch for it: she thought she might safely
remain where she was, while Madame d'Ehrenstein stayed, and
abandoned the idea of escaping to a convent.

364

ROSEMARY.

365


CONCERNING SCULPTURE.        367

CHAPTER III.
CONCERNING SCULPTURE.
WIsSEN went the next day to the Exhibition of the National
Academy of Design. It was a good Exhibition, very rich in
landscape, and adorned by many a little gem beside, from
artists then obscure, who have since become famous. 'The
Minister had paid little attention to the progress of the Fine
Arts in this new country, and he wandered through the rooms
looking at the pictures that interested him, and feeling that
America would not long be behind Europe in an order of
production to which republics have always been favorable.
However, he perceived yet some immense gaps to be filled.
An idealism too conventional and essentially copyist, seemed
to contend with an exaggerated naturalism. American art
appeared to him yet to lack that inspiration higher than itself,
which in other times and countries had been the true origin
of its prodigies. At last he came quite suddenly upon a bust
in white marble, around which a number of ladies had ga-
thered. A glance revealed the secret of its fascination.
"This resembles Rose Dashon," thought the Minister, "and
yet it is not a portrait."
In fact, the spirit and general character of Rosemary's face
and head were there, without anything individual; the veil,
the flowers, were finely generalized; the face itself was solemn,
beautiful, serene, with a certain immobility and fixedness of.
expression-an expression that ought not to change, and which
therefore most exactly suited the changeless marble. It was
rightly named "The Marble Bride," which Wissen found to be
the title in the catalogue. This noble, calm, impassive head
was slightly bent over a neck and bosom of truly wonderful

modelling ; and Wissen comprehended then that the sculptor
has an eye in his hand, that like the blind, he discerns form
by the touch, and remembers the impression more vividly than
we the impressions of sight. Here was no reminiscence of the
antique, no voluptuous fancy, no meretricious naturalistic
display. You saw nothing but a soft robe, with folds of an
infinite modesty. It seemed that another sense might make
further discoveries; but that maidenly majesty awed you too
much to dream of making the experiment. It was clearly an
inspiration. Wissen passed an hour looking at it, and there
were always persons looking, chiefly women. Some gazed in
silence ; 'others tried to express delight, admiring this and
that; few, if any, seeming to know what it was that charmed
them.
Quitting the Exhibition, full of thought and convinced that
his friend was a genius, Wissen rather sadly entered an omnibus
to pay a visit which he felt to be of obligation. The omnibus
circulated through a splendid Avenue, and was filled with ele-
gantly dressed ladies. At Madam Dashon's the count pulled
the check and got out, followed by at least eight pair of spark-
ling eyes, rendered more curious by his profoundly abstracted
air. He was admitted at once, and shown into the blue-room,
where grandmamma Dashon did not keep him long waiting.
She was gratified by his call, and much more cordial than when
they met on the ferry. She soon recurred to the subject upper-
most in her thoughts.
"When my son died-you knew my son, Count Wissen ?-I
thought it a terrible blow ; but it was nothing to this. He was
a soldier-I knew that he was exposing his life every day-he
lost it in a glorious action-a glorious action, do you under-
stand ?-shedding lustre on the name of Dashon. Then he
left this child. - It was only a girl, but our blood was in her
veins, and such a girl!  You knew my grandchild, Count
Wissen. I cannot remember that she ever committed a wilful
fault. She was thoughtless sometimes, and full of her fun
when we were alone, but so scrupulously conscientious-do
you understand? She seemed cold to strangers, but that was
her exquisite modesty. She was really the most affectionate


CONCERNING SCULPTURE.        869

creature in the world. A heart, M. le come :-it is not every
one that has a heart, do you understand ? There's my niece
Augusta. Varick : a very handsome girl, no doubt, and ex-
tremely caressing in her manners ; she embraces me twice to
Rosemary's once, do you understand ?-yet she has no heart at
all ! absolutely none ! ian anything be more frightful than
what has befallen poor Mr. Dashon, count ? Were he able, he
would alter his will. I am certain of it. He would leave
everything to me, do you understand ? with a discretion as to
his nephew and niece ; but he is incapable of making a testa-
mentary disposition-thus half his property goes straight to my
niece Mrs. Varick, Augusta's mother, you understand? She
wants the whole of it. I often wonder she is not tempted to
put me out of the way"-with her short, bitter laugh ;-" for
if I die before Mr. Dashon, -all will be hers ; and assuredly, if
I survive him, not a penny will she get beyond her legal share
-half his immense estate. It is the real reason, count,"-
sinking her voice to a whisper and laying one yet unwrinkled
hand on his arm-" it is the real reason why I keep Augusta
here, and pretend to form plans for her-to blind her mother
as to my intentions. She wants me to take the girl to France,
and marry her to your friend Floreal; and I persuade them
that I mean to do it as soon as we have left off our mourning,
eh ? She wanted the Empress's pearls, too ! But I was too
sharp for her there !"
"What cause did the physicians assign for the sudden decease
of Miss Dashon ?" inquired the count.
" Disease of the heart-that is, they knew nothing about it,
do you understand ? Why, she never was sick a day in her
life, since she lived with us! Her health was perfect--her
sleep was like an infant's-a faultless machine, do you under-
stand ? always running well, and never out of order. There is
no explaining such a catastrophe, sir, in such a creature."
" Has the thought ever occurred to you, madam," pursued
Wissen, " that the sudden death of Miss Dashon might be
attributed-to such a cause as you just now hinted at 'n
"To poison ?" asked the old lady, calmly. '
" Pardon the suggestion."

"The doctors said that no poison could produce a death so
sudden and so tranquil, and yet leave no trace--do you
understand ?"
"There was no post-mortem ?"
" Ah !" shrieked the old lady, "do you think I would
have suffered such a profanation? No, no; no one touched
her but her friends the Athertons, who lifted her from the floor
to the bed, and from the bed to the coffin. -Besides, count, I
never gave up hope till the last minute, that it was only a
trance, and that she would come to life again. Until Mrs.
Atherton closed her eyes, they continued to sparkle with the
same brilliancy and expressiveness as in life ;-my brother
Varick says that is a symptom of poisoning by certain nar-
cotics-the eye glitters after death, do you understand? But
suppose she were poisoned, would an examination bring her
to life again? Answer me that? What then? That is all
very well when some poor low-bred wretch comes to her end
by unfair means, but it is not to be thought of in a family like
ours. If my grandchild died of poison, Count Wissen, it must
have been administered either by herself or some other. If
by herself (impossible supposition), God forbid it should ever
be known; if by another, that other in all probability would be
one of the family, do you understand? Why pile disgrace on
misfortune? My granddaughter herself, were she alive, would
feel the same, count. She would let the iron enter into her
very soul, and not a single cry would she utter if it was to
bring dishonor on our house and name ! I have brought her
up to that, and that old Louis, her French grandfather, laid the
foundation well for my teaching."
"But to act thus," said the count, feeling how truly the old
lady had divined her grandchild's character,-" to act thus is
to let the guilty go unpunished."
"There are other punishments besides hanging," said grand-
mamma, quietly, "and not less terrible ; and in families like
ours we know how to inflict them. Do you take snuff, .f. le
ministre ?"-offering her box.
"Thank you, madam.--Rosemary is right," thought he,

868             ROSEMARY.


CONCERNING SCULPTURE.        27

'70

theree is no telling whither the old lady's vindictiveness would
lead her, if she knew all."
He was about to take leave. Grandmamma insisted on
showing him the portrait of Rosemary. It had been painted in
the autumn by Ingham, who had painted Rosemary's mother
twenty years before, and was one of his most exquisite works,
finished with the precision of a miniature. It hung in the
library, where Mr. Dashon almost constantly sat, regarding it
mournfully. He was there when the count entered, but took
no notice of the interruption. There was an artist in the
room, with his easelmaking a copy.
" Mr. Dashon wiliiot allow this picture out of his sight, you
understand ? So we have this copy made for the use of a
sculptor who is making the statue for the monument," said
grandmamma. "SHe is a celebrated man, and has modelled
several figures already, but they are not likenesses at all, do
you understand? I wish I could find a sculptor-there are
many painters, for 'example-who had seen my grandchild
alive."
Ingham's -picture was a living likeness, but it did not give
the profile at all, and that was the most peculiar and noblest
view of'rosemary's face.-" They all fail there," said grand-
mamma.
Wissen then spoke of the head in the Exhibition. He was,
convinced, he said, that young O'Morra must have seen Miss
Dashon, for there was an extraordinary resemblance. Grand-
mamma was vividly interested, promised to visit the Exhibition,
-" I go nowhere now, do you understand ?"-and took down
the artist's name and address.
" O'Morra !" she repeated. "An Irishman, of course-saw
my grandchild at church, no doubt. Ah ! she was always at
her prayers-it was her only fault, you understand ?"
" In a young woman we can excuse it," said the imperturbable
Minister.
"Certainly; above all, when she is destined to be a marquise,"
said Madame, always faithful to her principles. " O'Morra!
There is a lawyer of that name, who was formerly Attorney,
or something, of the State, and prosecuted some great lady for

poisoning her husband-ha! ha !"-the short laugh again...
"I J read his speech-bitter as wornwood! Had I been the
woman, I would rather have been hanged at once than torn to
pieces by that merciless tongue-ha! ha !"
" The sculptor is his son," said Count Wissen,
" I will see his work this very day," said grandmamma; "for
the father is a man of prodigious talent."
At an earlier hour than usual that day was the mournful
ceremony of getting old Mr. Dashon into his carriage. 'Instead
of his granddaughter who used, to aid him with her strong
young arm, two servants propped him, one on either side, and
with slow and painful, steps he half walked, was half carried
down the low gradini of his palace, and across the. broad
sidewalk. Into the carriage it was necessary to lift him by
main strength. Daily did the passers-by stop to moralize on
the vanity of wealth, when they saw the lord of this magnifi-
cent mansion thus helplessly infirm, and beheld his family,
servants, carriage--all invested with the signs of hopeless
mourning. The promenaders of the district, who knew the
history, could add many a pathetic circumstance to deepen the
tragedy. From  the windows of the mansion opposite, this
spectacle was daily watched by Mrs. Isabel Varick, also clothed
in weeds. Affectionate niece ! Her anxiety for her uncle's
health was doubtless very real, or she would sometimes have
missed her station at the varying hours of that daily drive;
but she never did. As sure as the coach was at the door, Mrs.
Varick was at her window; and when it drove off, if she caught
the eye of her aunt, she would kiss her hand. Then she drove
out herself, alone, or accompanied by her son ; but the time
was exactly calculated, and long before the carriage returned
from Greenwood Mrs. Varick was at her station again, and as
Johnson drove ups he always looked at the window, with its
rich columns without, and superb curtains within, where the
lady stood, and gave his whip a knowing flourish, and touched
his black livery hat.
That day the first stop was at the exhibition of the Academy.
Augusta wished to get out too, but her aunt obliged her to
remain in the carriage to keep her uncle company. This was

ROSEMARY.

271


RONCERNfNG SOULPTURE.         378

one reason why Augusta was always of the party. As grand..
mamma did not like to leave Mr. Dashon alone in the
carriage, lest something might befall, the young lady was
useful, sometimes to remain with her uncle when Mrs. Dashon
wished to alight, oftener to get out on some errand (as the old
lady never failed to have one); so that her situation, however
honorable and full of prospective wealth and independence,
was by no means a sinecure. And that day Aunt Dashon was
gone an unconscionable time, and returned with signs of deep
emotion on her severe countenance. She immediately gave
the order-not a usual one-" Wall street Ferry." Unless Mrs.
Dashon had occasion to visit her banker or lawyer, she usually
drove straight to the Hamilton Ferry at the foot of Whitehall.
Arrived on the Brooklyn side she gave another puzzling
order  . "Pacific street, between Clinton and Court." Ha4
Mrs. Dashon known Brooklyn-better, she would have taken
the South Ferry.
It was a pleasant street, shaded with trees; on one side-a
row of quiet two-story houses ; on the other, gardens enclosed
by a fence. On the garden side, about the middle of the
square, stood a single building of . peculiar appearance,
evidently not a dwelling house, two storied, with narrow win-
dows below, and great square ones above. A young man was
just coming out of the large plain door. Mrs. Dashon pulled
the check-string, and the carriage stopped. She beckoned to
the young man, who civilly approached the carriage.
"Will you be so obliging, sir, as to tell me where is the
studio of Mr. O'Morra, the sculptor-if you know V'
"My name is O'Morra, madam, and sculpture is my profes-
sion," replied the youth.
Grandmanma looked much surprised, expecting to see an
older man. Augusta says in a whisper-
"Aunty, it is the gentleman whose horse Johnson cut yes-
terday, and who was so polite !"
"Is it ?" said grandmamma. "Johnson! take off your hat,
sir. Allow me to apologize, Mr. O'Morra, for the rudeness of'
my servant, for which I have already rebuked him severely,-
do you understand ?"

"Madam !" said Rory, with vivacity, "I trust you have not
thought it necessary to hunt me up, to apologize for what I
had entirely forgotten. Pray, replace your hat, Mr. Johnson."
It was time; for Mr. Johnson's bald pate was broiling in the
sun, as a foretaste of what he might expect hereafter,
"if you are at leisure, Mr. O'Morra, I called on you for
quite a different purpose. But I see you are just going out."
"I am quite at your service, madam," says Rory, "either
here, or in my, studio, if you choose to alight."
"If you will excuse an old lady, I will despatch my business
here, Mr. O'Morra; but in that case you must not stand.
Augusta, take that basket on your lap and make room for Mr.
O'Morra."
Augusta blushed vividly; Mr. Rory was too gallant not to
profit by the opportunity of sitting so near a young -lady of
very considerable beauty. He smiled, took the proffered seat,
and placed himself in an attitude of serious attention. He
remembered Johnson perfectly; Mrs. Dashon, Augusta, and
grandpapa, the two former disguised by their deep mourning,
and the latter changed by illness, he would probably not have
identified but for their coachman ; but this recognition had
taken place the day before, when he glanced at the fellow
who cut his horse ; for at that moment had it rushed upon his
mind like lightning that these were the parents of Rosemary.
"I had a granddaughter, Mr. O'Morra," said Mrs. Dashon.
Grandpapa awoke from a kind of doze and looked around,
fixing his tremulous gaze at last upon the young man.
Rory bowed.
"Did you ever see her ?" pursued grandmamma, regarding
him with her eagle glance ;-we use the term advisedly, for
grandmamma's glance of inquisition was sidelong, one-eyed,
yet keen and steady, for all the world like a bird of prey.
"I had the honor once to accompany her home from church,
when she was accidentally belated," said the young man.
" Ah," said grandmamma, "I remember it."
The recollection affected the old lady ; she wept ; old Mr.
Dashon also began to weep, not knowing why, and put forth
his palsied hand to O'Morra ; it was something about Rose ; he

"

872               ROSEMARY.


374               ROSEMARY.

CONCERNING SCULPTURE.        875

clasped the young man's hand, and Rory could not without
ungentle violence withdraw it.
"Never mind," said grandmamma. "Is that the only occa-
sion, Mr. O'Mor a, of your seeing my grandchild ?"
This question uzzled Mr. Rory extremely. He slightly hesi-
tated ; the sidelo g eye was upon him, sharp through wet.
"To tell the truth, madam," said he, "I scarcely saw her
face even then, so that I am sure I should not have known her
again, had we happened to meet'
"I do not quite understand, Mr. O'Morra, whether you ever
did meet again, or not."
"To the best of my knowledge and belief, madam," replied
Mr. Rory, "I never saw your granddaughter again till she lay
in her coffin."
" Ah ! you attended the funeral !" said grandmamma.
"Mr. O'Morra is a class-mate and friend of Roosey's, aunty,"
said Augusta.
Here Mr. Dashon drew back his hand, as if something hurt
him, and murmured unintelligibly.
"Pardon my questions, sir-they are not prompted by mere
curiosity, you understand," pursued Mrs. Dashon. "There is
a bust in the Exhibition, Mr. O'Morra, executed by you. I
learn from the respectable janitress, do you understand ? that
it is not for sale ; that you have instructed her to say in answer
to the numberless applications, that money will not buy it.
Well, young sir, I have no objection to that ; on the contrary; I
should have been deeply wounded if such a work had been
sold to any one ; but I expect that you will make an exception
in my favor-in our favor, do you understand ?"-glancing at
Mr. Dashon.-" I wish to become the purchaser, and desire
you to name any price you please."
"I cannot sell that bust, madam," replied Mr. Rory, rather
haughtily. " But' -with a softened expression, that gave to
his noble features an irresistible sweetness-" I will make you
a copy for nothing-since you seem to set a particular value
on it."
Augusta looked at the young man as if she could scarcely
refrain from embracing him; which was pardonable under the

circumstances, for if ever a man looked like an angel, it was
Rory O'Morra in saying those words. Old Mrs. Dashon was
also touched.
"It shall be as you please, sir. But that is not my real
errand with you, after all. We are getting up a. monument to
my grandchild, do you understand ? The principal figure must
be herself, in her last moments, kneeling at her prie-dieu.
Nobody can do it but'you, sir. Will you accept the commis-
sion, naming your own terms ?"
O'Morra was thunderstruck at this proposition to execute a
monumental statue of a person whom he knew to be living. To
render the affair still more strange, he actually did not know
the names of the parties applying, or of the supposed deceased.
He politely suggested the latter circumstance, which seemed
to astonish grandmamma very much. She immediately gave
him her card, and wrote on it the name of her granddaughter
in full :-" RosE MARIE DASHON."
" If I undertake any part of the monument," said he, "I
must do the whole."
"I put it entirely in your hands, regardless of expense."
"Still I must have yopr general notions, both of the style
and cost," said O'Morra.
"Why can't you drive out with us to Greenwood, look at the
situation of our lot, determine its capabilities, and send us in
as early as possible, a plan ,with an estimate ?" said grand-
mamma.
"If you will excuse me," said Rory, "I will go on horse-
back. It is the hour of my daily ride, and unless yourequipage
is very fleet, I shall be there before you."
In fact, he passed them on the road, for _Rory O'Morra's
horse was a 2:46 trotter. He passed them like the wind; and
in the meantime he had made a rapid, breathless call on Rose
Marie, who did not hesitate to receive Mr. Rory O'Morra alone
in Miss Tankerville's drawing-room. Whatever was the nature
of their interview, Rory accepted Mrs. Dashon's commission ;
inspected the burial lot, a charming wooded knoll, commanding
the loveliest view in Greenwood, and having the vault below in
the side of the acclivity, where the road wound by. With the


876                   1tOsEMARVY.

rapid glance of genius and experience he sketched on the
spot a rude outline of a plan. Grandmamma assented to every
thing he proposed. A thing that interested him greatly was
that the grandparents had succeeded in getting their lot conse-
crated, on certain conditions :-it was the only one in the
cemetery. What will not wealth accomplish ? In a certain
sense, the keys of Heaven itself seem to be at its disposal.
Mr. Rory advised a very considerable departure from Mrs.
Dashon's original idea of the monument. He considered the
kneeling figure rather commonplace. There should be a
chapel, a miniature chapel, quite enclosed except the entrance,
which also might be closed by a glass door, so as to protect
the statuary from the elements. Within he proposed an open
sarcophagus with Christian emblems, and the figure of the
deceased sitting on its edge, as if just risen from the last
repose. The bridal attire-the coronal of flowers-would be
all appropriate.
"There is one thing, however, young sir, which I do not yet
comprehend," said grandmamma, lingering a moment after the
rest, and confronting the young sculptor.
"And that is, madam ?"       ,
"The manner in which you have draped what appears of the
figure in your beautiful work in the Exhibition. My grand-
child wore from earliest infancy such a robe, but-how 4id
you know that, young gentleman ?"
"It is a classic vesture," said O'Morra, quietly: "in fidct,
my dear :ndam,"-with a subtle smile-" it is drapery r the
abstract."
"Ah ! drapery in the abstract ! And the medal, monsieur ?"
said grandmamma. "Is that also in the abstract ?"
"I wear one like it myself," said O'Morra, drawing it from
his bosom.
"It is a pity you did not know her in life," said grandmamma.
"You would have suited each other, do you understand? And
she might still be ours-who knows ?"
O'Morra turned pale, but said nothing.

CHAPTER IV.
A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.
ROSEMARY was an early bird. To date from her appearance
at dinner which attested a complete recovery, she resumed her
matin walks. Out of the house by six, breathing the fresh air
on the heights, or making her way to the hill overlooking
Gowanus Bay, where Mary, the Star of the Sea, greets the
mariner from afar, and performing her devotions in the church,
unknown by any present, she returned to an eight o'clock
breakfast, with that portion of the family who were sufficiently
early to share it.
Mr. Rory O'Morra was earlier still. He quitted the house a
full hour before Rosemary, who soon learned to distinguish his
step on the stair, and sometimes in returning she got a glimpse
of him at a distance striding homeward at a tremendous rate
and the breakfast conversation developed the fact that he
exercised at the gymnasium a couple of hours every morning.
At all events the young gentleman was commonly a few
minutes late at breakfast, where he appeared most singularly
fresh, in all the glory of spotless linen and a young man's
matin gear. If there was anything about O'Morra that smacked
of the puppy age, it was the extreme finish and appropriate-
ness of his toilet on all occasions: but then that might be
habit, for his father was equally attentive to his habiliments, and
so indeed were all the gentlemen of Miss Tankerville's family,
except perhaps Mr. Seymour.
The matin meal was not so lively as the dinner, but except
in the absence of Count Wissen, who took coffee in his room
and breakfasted a la fourchette in New York at midday,
Rosemary found it more agreeable. It was quiet, unceremon-
ious and friendly, all which she liked. There was nothing like


878               ROSEMARY.

flirtation going on, even between parties who seemed in a
desperate way the evening previous. The O'Morras were
rather silent ; Mr. Seymour bolted his rolls and steak and two
cups of coffee, and digested the herald, all in fifteen minutes,
and was off; the countess made her boldest essays in English,
which were quite charming. The only person who seemed to
have enough nervous energy and animal spirits in reserve for
the labors of the day to spend any in what looked like gallantry,
was Mr. Rory O'Morra after all. Mr. Rory, who did not flirt at
all at dinner or in the evening, certainly devoted himself at
breakfast to that shy and plain Miss Graves, the music teacher.
What could be the attraction ? She was four or five years his
senior, her dark eyes were her only good feature, but she had
a great deal of musical culture, It appeared also that Mr.
Rory and Miss Graves had adjacent rooms (the only ones
occupied by boarders) in the attic ; and it seemed that scrupu-
lously quiet as the young gentleman was in rising at half-past
four, he always had the misfortune to awaken Miss Graves, who
affected to complain, but Rosemary thought took pleasure in
being so disturbed. Miss Mari considered that Miss Graves
would have done better to say nothing about it. In fact, was
it not a certain cautious, yet indubitably masculine step on the
stairs at a little before five every morning, which broke Miss
Mari6's slumbers ? Yet that young lady never breathed the
slightest intimation of the fact, nor mentioned that she some-
times saw Mr. Rory O'Morra returning home from the gymna-
sium in his seven-league boots. And whether young Mr.
O'Morra was aware of her own matutinal habits, she did not
know, and of course she did not care.
We slightly anticipate, for greater convenience. Miss Marie
could not complain that the O'Morras neglected her. On the
contrary, it was quietly assumed that she was their guest.
Mr. O'Morra senior paid her board; that is, he paid the same
as before she came, although Miss Mari occupied one of
his apartments, and the permanent visitor for whom he had
contracted with Miss Tankerville, to cover all his son's fre-
quent- guests, as well as his own, was necessarily excluded.
Miss Marid- had a conversation with Mr. O'Morra on the sub-

A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.               379
ject, and it seemed that they came to a satisfactory under-
standing. Mr. O'Morra took also a great, almost affectionate
interest in her health, and in devising the means of keeping
up her spirits.
"You ought to take a drive every fine day," said he, "not
alone, but with a pleasant party. I am sorry that my business
confines me so much that I cannot take you myself."
"So am I, sir," said Rosemary, smiling languidly.
"But there is Rory," pursued Mr. O'Morra. "He has no-
thing else to. do ; he spends half the day on horseback. Why
don't you take out Miss Mari6 in my dog-cart, Rory ?"
"I was just wishing to propose it," said Mr. Rory.
"It is'the first time I ever knew you lack nerve to propose
anything that you wished, sir," said his father.
Miss Marie blushed; it was not according to the creed of
French demoiselle-hood to take a tete-A-tete drive with a
young man; but then she was the guest of the O'Morras. It
was the same, mutatis mutandis, as riding out with Roosey, to
which she was accustomed.
"I am used to riding,' she said, "if Mr. Rory prefers the
saddle."
"By and by that will do," said Mr. O'Morra. "Your first
excursion must not be on horseback. Besides, I want you to
try my dog-cart, Miss Rose."
So the dog-cart was at the door at three in the afternoon.
Miss Marie was charmed with the vehicle; it was so pretty, so
convenient and so nicely balanced. But when Mr. Rory had
handed her in, she felt somewhat alarmed at finding herself so
completely exposed to observation.
"Not more so than in riding," said Rory.
"That is true," said Rosemary, gathering her skirts about
her feet, and pulling down a thick green vei. "I hope you
will not be ashamed, Mr. Rory, of driving a lady who wears a
green veil," said shego laughing.
"It is'an impenetrable disguise," he replied. "I am going
to take you to Greenwood, Miss Mari6, where I have a plan to
submit to you."


A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.         881

"This is the pleasantest kind of carriage I ever was in,
said Rosemary, "but why is it called a dog-cart 2"
"The box was originally designed to carry a sportsman's
dogs. The governor had it built in England ; it is a very
handy concern for him, as he visits very often a villa we own
a few miles out, and he can bring home lots of fruit and vege-
tables in the box, you see. It is a capital contrive."
O'Morra explained very learnedly all the advantages of the
vehicle.
"It does remarkably well for the governor," he observed, in
reply to her expressions of admiration, "but is rather an old-
fogyish concern for me. When I do drive, as my mare is very
fast, I like a lighter drag."
"Do you drive one of those slender skeleton affairs, with
wheels like spider webs and no body at allt?" asked Rosemary,
smiling.
" Sorella makes 2:40 easily in a drag like that," replied the
young man, "and I own I am proud of her performance."
" She is a beautiful creature," said Rosemary. "And equally
kind, you say, under the saddle and in harness."
" Don't let my friend Forrester hear you call a horse a crea-
ture," said Rory, laughing, "or you will never hear the last
of it."
O'Morra was very frank and off-hand ; more brother-like a
great deal, Rosemary thought, than either Roosevelt or any of
her Varick cousins had ever been. Nevertheless it was a novel
sensation for the beautiful heiress-this drive with a young
man, of a beauty equal to her own, though so different; Rose-
mary had never experienced anything quite like it ; and as
they glided along swiftly and noiselessly over the track of the
city railroad, her heart fluttered a good deal, while her com-
panion was as calm as if he had been a brother indeed. Rory
proposed to go to Greenwood at once, by the straight road, and
after finishing what they had there to do,to take a longer and
more picturesque way home.
Rosemary had never been at Greenwood but once in her
life, and as she wasthen not in a favorable situation to see or
admire its beauties, they burst upon her now with all the charm

of novelty. Rory loitered along the lovely avenues, and pointed
out to his delighted companion the rich combinations of foliage,
the graceful diversity of surface, the brilliant flowers (the roses
were just beginning to bloom), and here and there the tasteful
monuments which adorn this abode of death. Here were deep
glens ; there miniature lakes embosomed in trees and with
fountains ever dripping ; here were green and silent glades.
There was a great deal to awaken sentiment, yet O'Morra
never uttered any. Never once did he let his voice sink to a
sympathetic whisper ; he quietly checked his beautiful mare,
criticized a little the monuments on general :principles, and
assented to Rosemary's rather ingenuous observations: she was
quite deeply affected and very much charmed.
" The remains of so many who are dear to me will repose
here at last, I suppose, though mine will not," she said.
"Perhaps they will," said O'Morra, bluntly. "You had a
narrow escape once."
As he said this, they stopped, Rosemary knew not why,
before a gray vault, grim and stern, of the plainest architecture,
with a door of iron, massive, riveted, and impenetrable.
Rosemary regarded it for a moment curiously, for her com-
panion said nothing to explain why they stopped; and then,
carved in the granite, in square stone letters above the iron
door, she read the name-
" DASHON."
Young O'Morra's voice -did sink at last into the deepest of
manly tones.
"That door has a bank-safe lock, the key of which your
grandmother keeps in her own custody, she tells me. Every
afternoon.-rain or shine-they come hither ; Mr. Johnson
unlocks the vault, your grandfather is helped out of the car-
riage and enters, and a fresh wreath of flowers is hung - on
--- your coffin, Rosemary!"
The girl looked at him, then at the grim vault; her features
worked a minute convulsively ; suddenly she averted her face ;
the next instant she burst into a passion of loud weeping and

880               ROSEMARY.


A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.

violent sobs, O'Morra regarding her in pitying silence. As
soon as the first paroxysm had-spent itself and was ending in
convulsive sighs and efforts to catch her breath, he touched the
reins and drove on rapidly toward the most retired part of the
cemetery. By degrees her passion subsided and she attempted
to speak, but the first effort at articulation brought on another
storm of tears, cries and sobs, beyond control.
"Don't try to talk, and don't try to resist your feelings, my
dear Miss Dashon," said Rory. "That only makes it worse."
Rosemary had the sense to take this advice, and she soon
began to weep quietly like a woman. After they had driven
on awhile, and looked at the ocean view, drinking in the salt
breeze, her tranquillity returned.
"It is no disgrace to a woman to cry, but I am ashamed to
cry in such a very disagreeable and ungraceful manner, Mr.
Rory," said she, with a smile-very difficult to withstand.
"Nothing you do can ever be ungraceful or disagreeable, I
think :-oh! no more tears, my dear Miss Marie ! Remember
that we are liable to meet people any minute ; we are very
lucky to have escaped so long."
"I shall not be overcome again, Mr. Rory," answered Rose-
mary, drawing down her veil, which in the cemetery she had
thrown back. "But in truth you must understand that my
feelings in regard to my grandparents are somewhat tender"-
a little sob under the veil-" and-that they have long been sup-
pressed."-A deep sigh.
"Your self-control," observed the young man, whose voice
unawares had lost its fine clear resonance, "has often sur-
prised me."
"I pay for it in secret by many a bitter tear. Let me talk
now, Mr. Rory-I can do it without losing the command of
myself. Confess that my situation is without a parallel. I
love my grandpapa and grandmamma Dashon more than I can
express: but what can I do ' It is clear that my life has been
attempted by my own relatives, aided by. the sagacity of a
demon in human shape. Shall I wait till grandpapa and grand-
mamma arrive this afternoon, and throw myself in their arms '
Gracious Heaven, Mr. Rory ! what a thunder-stroke to them

all ! Grandpapa would perhaps die of th  h
grandmamma would think and say of m     discki, n   han
imagine. Or supposeIsotni---endm        discretion,I can
imaine  OrsuposeI soften it---send grandmamma word..
break it with all the delicacy possible-I have imagined a
thousand ways--what, Mr. Rory, is to be done with the guilty "
"They must be brought to justice."
"That is easy to say, but they are myblood
grace is my own. The chief criminal is a Dashon by birth,
like myself; a woman like myself; there       b li
creature but she and I, after randlpapa is no other living
that name; of my own sex, too, you observe    ho owns
,  0 yo  oberv ---shall I be
happy when she is in a prison ? That is not all Mr Roy
This crime could scarcely be prved 'lh, M. Rory.
Thi crme aud sarclybe proved, without bringing to light
other infamies, the very thought of which makes me 1 ight
head in shame. No,   r   oy      ol makes me bow my
~ in  hame  NoMr. Rory, I would grant her a free
pardon. I would rather share -my fortune with her unhappy
children, than that it ever should tempt her more."
"That is magnanimous, Rosemary, but not just," said th
young sculptor, warmly. "If they suffer in conse
your doing what is right, you are notrrepconsquence of
suffer too--that is our' lot in this world." -e,1To i   o
with the whip rather smartly.
"Aye, Mr. Rory, but you do not knowgan
uttered a threat in my hearng-oe m   grnmamma. She
uttre a hrat n  y haring~over my coffin-_which I shall
not easily forget. Ah, the Varicks are a stern ace;  I shalo
them are weak, others have had great and r   s    e
but they have all violent passions and are implaca  inltir
resentments. Even my father would never forgive his parents
their treatment of my mother. Grandmamma  would is   my
cousin Isabel and all her raceoiked crush my
couin sabl nd ll errace like a nest of vipers, if she knew
this'; their bread, their fame, their freedom, their very lives
indirectly are in her power; and Isabel who i  erey aive
of it, would endeavor to be beforehand with her. No, no, r
Rory,--if I stir"--laying her hand on his arm a lowMr.
her voice--"my first act will be thr ar father   il
have my cousin Isabel and Dr. Mannikin arrested on there
of attempted murder; then both grandmame and she will be
forced. to submit. But even yourrather d   s m

882

ROSEMARY*.

383


A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.

ROSEMARY.

such a step at present, for although he has been on the trace
of this affair for a month, and knows more than you or I, there
is a link in the evidence which is wanting."
"You cannot be in better hands than my father's, to advise
on such a point," said Mr. Rory.
"Oh, Mr. Rory, I am distrustful of myself. Time has been
when I hated the Varicks vindictively ; and if I pity and
spare them now--"
Her voice trembled-
"It is because you have learned to subdue your passions,"
said O'Morra, with a smile.
"It has been the battle of my girlhood to conquer those evil
and wicked feelings-and even now-sometimes-I long to
spring among them with vengeance (which'I then call justice)
in both hands-calm as death, and as pitiless ! Ah, now you
know me too well, Mr. Rory !"
"You would be more than human not to feel so sometimes."
" Why their cruelty was infamous ! Had it been I only
whom they struck ! and yet I had never harmed them. But it
was the heart of their benefactor that they ruthlessly pierced.
They deprived doting parents of an only child, a bridegroom
of his bride, an innocent girl of her life (as they thought), in
one moment."
Rosemary was excited and spoke with unusual freedom and
energy. She had thrown back her veil again. At a short
turning a carriage came in sight, passing them swiftly ; as it
went by, a lady looking from the window, shrieked and fell
back.
With an alert and graceful movement Rosemary half turned,
half rose, and gazed after the retiring carriage with such a
momentary expression of energetic disdain on her remarkable
profile, as if she had said-" There sped an arrow winged with
terror and remorse !"-It was a lightning flash, and the next
moment she had resumed her seat and drew down her veil:-
"Let us attend to our business here, Mr. Rory, and go."
O'Morra was thinking of the same thing. An expression let
fallfby his companion had struck him painfully, checking the
sympathy that was beginning to flow in a very unguarded way.

"A bridegroom from his bride," she had said. des, no doubt
she had wished to remind him, in case he were founding some
presumptuous expectation on their unusual intimacy, that she
was the same as a married woman after all. And he had been
calling her "Rosemary." It was from the cautious Wissen that
he had learned this pet name of the beautiful stranger. With
these reflections the young man drove on a little way in silence,
and when he again addressed his companion, it was in the calm
tone which he flattered himself he had so successfully adopted at
the beginning of their drive. Her emotion and impassioned
language and almost tender confidence had betrayed him into
forgetting it. In future he would be more on his guard. In
fact, was not Miss Dashon's slight departure from reserve in
his favor a proof that unconsciously she regarded herself as
wedded? Rory was used to be petted and flattered and
spoken'to very confidentially by married ladies : but what an
impertinence in that case to call her "Rosemary !"  He quite
blushed at his mistake. Yet how avoid it with that exquisite
maidenly shyness and self-government in movement and
posture seated beside him ? Mr. Rory was puzzled ; not more
so than his companion by the sudden change of. his manner-
and thinking over its possible reasons, she laid the blame on
herself, and blushed as vividly as he did.
They reached the Dashon vault again. O'Morra leaped from
the vehicle and-handed Rosemary out. He then described to
her his plan. Instead of a showy monument, a mere monument
dedicated to family vanity and selfish grief, such as had been
proposed ;-an open structure it was to have been, all niches and
crocketting and finials, and statuary;-instead of this, he pro.-
posed to build a new vault, in the form of a chapel, on the
summit.of the knoll---.
" A mortuary chapel, with a bell, and a simple altar, where
sacred rites may be performed and prayers offered"-with a
calm smile, to Rosemary quite inscrutable--" for your repose,
and that of your catholic descendants to the remotest genera..
tion: for apart from that destiny the consecration which the
spot has received becomes unmeaning The remains of your
father, Miss Dashon, are to be removed from the lower vault,
17                                             '

884

885


A DRIVE TO GREENWOOD.

which, it seems, has been purposely excluded from the bene-
diction, and will be placed in a lateral tomb; those of your
mother will be laid by his side-"
"Kind, kind grandmamma !" exclaimed Rosemary, in a
faltering tone.
"In an arch which I destine for you," added the young
sculptor, very seriously, "there will be the sarcophagus and
figure which I have already described to you. May it be long
before that design, executed while you are in life (thank God!)
and in the flower of your beauty and your youth, shall acquire
its full significance."
"You were right, Mr. Rory, to say a little while ago that I
shall probably be buried here," said Rosemary, with cheerful-
ness. "Really, there is something extremely fascinating to
me thus to plan the spot where one's mortal part will await the
joyful moment--"
"When sea and land shall give up their dead," said the
young man.
"You are very unlike any artists whom I have ever known
before, Mr. Rory, in having so clear a vision of the unseen
realities," said Rosemary. "I think it must be the secret of
your power."
They then made the ascent of the hill on foot, by a steep
winding road, the mare following her master's voice, and trying
to catch a nibble of the grassy border. Arrived at the sum-
mit, he left her in the road, still and obedient, while he conducted
Rosemary over the. grass to the very spot which he proposed
for the chapel. It was directly over the vault below. There
was even an opening-a stone tube, trumpet-shaped-which
pierced down to the vault, and suffered its moisture (if any) to
escape.-" The floor," said O'Morra, "is a peculiar white
lime-stone, which has the most extraordinary disinfecting
property."-
While they conversed, Rory glanced at his watch and then
down the tour.
'   "You see something, Mr. O'Morra-ah ! grandmamma's
carriage ! Let us go! No, no! cannot I hide where I can at
least see them again ?"

"If you can command yourself you c
the least danger."           f yu an stay here without
" Grandmamma's eyes are as share
never saw me so be-crinolined podouas an eagle's. But she
friend me now. I will draw down moveil a     ithe be-
of this crooked tree. Do you, Mr. y'Morrar ositi down and
speak to them."
Then the carriage drove up. John, the footman, aided by
August o arikeselped onlMr. Dashon to alight. Rosemary had
need of all her self-control to keep from ruhn yohi  sit
ance--oh, howe much bt      epfrm rushing to his assist-
Mane-, heoor m h better she could do it than Augusta!
theyale teedoo of te vault was opened by Johnson, and
they all entered. Rosemary threw herself on her knees and
looked down the circular opening..sh~  ol  e  h  neir
the whitish pvmnta p            h could see the interior,.
thewhiishpavement, the black-robed crowd, and sawhe
grandfather with trembling hands lay and aw her
roses on a black velvet pall. She quite forgot herself.
"Dear, dear grandpapa !" she murmured..
There was evident confusion; everyone
vault except poor ',Mr Duin;eey one hurried out of the-
vaut ecep por M. Dashon, who was removed almost b
force. The faces of the others manifested terror. Withdiffi-
culty, they got Mr. Dashon into a carriage again, Youg
O'Morra assisting ; for AugustaVaric   wiae asai, und
leaning bak    *     uut      aik, white as a sheet, and
leani lback against a tree, was perfectly helpless. Grand-
increulone, pale as the rest-at first, lifted her haughty and
incredulous eyes to the summit of the knollgahere she now for
the first time perceived Rosemary sitting in the old tree,
"Who is that young woman? You know her, Mr. O'Morra?"
"Shecame here with me, madam. She is a guest of my
father's."sagutofm
" I belyou have entertained her with our history ?"
"I believe she is acquainted with it, but not through me,
m. Rory, with spirit.
"Very well, sir. I do not judge a young man, a young
artist especially, by the female company he keeps," said
grandma with a highly contemptuous glance at the trem-
bling figure that supported itself in the gnarly bend of the old

886

ROSEMARY.

387


A DRIVE -TO GREENWOOD.

tree. "She has the grace- to keep down her;veil at least.
Have the goodness, Mr. O'Morra, when you next give us
rendezvous here, do you understand ? to come alone-that's
all."-
Rory, who understood nothing of it, was thunderstruck. In
an ordinary case . he would have known how to reply and to
resent with warmth the imputation upon a lady under his
protection, but in the first place he did not know what dis-
pleased madam, and in the next, the fact that it was her own
grandchild of whom she thus spoke, rendered im speechless.
"Oh, aunty !" said Augusta, " I don't think it was the young
lady with Mr. O'Morra at all :-it was cousin Rosemary's own
voice, as plain as I ever heard it in my life."
"What nonsense !" cried grandmamma angrily. "You are
as bad as your uncle or that fool Johnson, who stands trem-
bling there like an aspen, instead of getting on his box. What
are you waiting for, sir ?"-very sharply.
The sharp reproofs of old Mrs. Dashon got the terrified ser-
vants into their places without delay. O'Morra now nndei-
standing the case, thought it necessary to his dignity to make
- an observation,
"Permit me to say, madam," said he, rather gravely, "that I
am not accustomed to drive out with young ladies capable of
the slightest breach of propriety, still more of such a gross. one
as you suppose. As for my present companion, who I repeat,
is our guest, I will venture to assert that there is not nor ever
was a female member of your own family, living or dead, with
a nicer sense of what is due to herself and others, or more scru-,
pulous in observing it."
"Very bold, very bold !" said grandmamma, while poor Mr.
Dashon stretched out his tremulous hand to the young man in
a suppliant manner. "To compare your lady yonder with my
peerless Rose !".
"I adhere to it, madam," says Mr. Rory.
Augusta glanced up at the figure ; noted the thick green
veil; the gray dress trimmed with green; and saw nothing
else remarkable except one foot, perfectly chaussa and very
symmetrical, that hung just clear of the grass in the shadow

of the ample skirts. 'A recollection of some sort affected
-she started as if she had   cino    oesr     etd her ;
she tared  s ifshehadseen a ghost, as well as heard the
voice of one. Grandmamma's quick eye followed the   th
lady's movement, and she -tootechoud
as c    mnt and etoo changed color, as she glanced at
that charming foot and gracious posture, though the vele
face was now laid close to therveiled
"I believe I shall get superstitious too, if I stay here much
longer," said grandmamma  "Your young friend-I see she
is young--may not have known what she was doing-it is a
sort of ear-trumpet, do you understand? No doubt it affects
the nervous system to hear anything of that kind  ie you
least expect it. Thinking of my grandchild at the moment
and the words-do you understand ?-made a sort o  meno
impression that it was h eran.-deast of illusory
mresn thare iuse hervoice. I own I was startled myself.
All miracles are susceptible of as simple an explanation, fw
had but the key--ha ! ha !eG  ssml   nepaain if we
had ut te ke-ha!ha!Good-bye, Mr. O'Morra. I accept
your guarantee for your fair friend though somewhat hyper..
bolically expressed, do you ,understand? Hm e
ment forward--don't fear that any ghost will interrupt your
labors. My grandchild-was too well-bred, you understand,
for such a petty trick of diablerie. It might
was not her manners, eh 2"               be her voice-it
And so the stately equipage, with its black hamnercloth and
tall footman, flashed away along the green avenues of the
cemetery.
O'Morra and Rosemary returned home by a beautiful drive,
among lanes and back-roads, by sumptuous villas; the young
ngs were quite tranquillized by the scenery
and the rapid motion and the sweet odorsenry
we do not say that tah we          dr of the country.
ers ota thcat there were not occasional streams of
tears at the affecting remembrance of what grandpapa had
doeo  randnlamma said, at the thought of their deep
mourning garb and the old man's broken form: sume
showers, that but made the hedgew       fr        mer
but he raganc of ha  -  hege-rows glisten, elicited
but the fragrance of that fair country whereon they fell. A.
drive of this kind is dangerous--we put that rock down in our
present life-chart, for the use of careful  n  W  co
be xepj~frn~ h~danger, if not two such nonpareils as Rory

388

4

4   '  -^  ,

{
. + ,(e
,

ROSEMARY.

389


890

ROSEMARY.

and Rosemary? Yet we see that a good deal of sentiment has
been exchanged between them, to say nothing of electric com..
munications which our recording instrument is not delicate
enough to jot down. One thing is certain: it was a long time
before Rose Marie Dashon took another tote-a-tote drive with
Mr. Rory O'Morra. Perhaps she felt that it was too agreeable
to be safe; perhaps that the footing on which they stood was
too uncertain to render it quite agreeable ito either ; perhaps
she merely feared it would compromise her in the eyes of the
world, and cause reports to fly about, in which of course there
would not be a word of truth, but not the less unpleasant
.that account. To avoid all appearance of particular inti acy
with any young gentleman was one of her earlie  nd best--
conned lessons. Rosemary never flirted, in spi of the general
example. In fact she soon passed in the hou e for an indiffer-
ent. She passed her evenings in great par with the family,
but she never would talk for more than a few minutes together
with any of the young, i. e., unmarried gentlemen. Count
Wissen was the sole exception, an exception on which he was
rallied, but of which he fully appreciated the significance.
Yet Mr. Rory O'Morra had not much reason to complain
either. Miss Maris was sitting to him for a statue of herself.
It was a profound secret, like so many other facts about her,
known to several persons. Madame dEhrenstein accompanied
Mifs Marie to Mr. O'Morra's studio. I doubt whether these
opportunities were not equal to a buggy drive ; indeed to a
good many of them. Miss Marie was certainly much more off
her guard. She became more intimately acquainted with the
character, and could study the genius of Mr. Rory O'Morra.
Moreover a sculptor's studio was a novel scene for her, and not
without a romantic interest. The circumstances were romantic
altogether, and if our heroine withstands their influence she
must be more or less than woman.

CHAPTER V.
ARAB.
I' was the count who arranged this matter with Madame
d'Ehrenstein, and perhaps had he never occasion for a finer
diplomatic skill. Mr. Rory's extreme innocence may be infer-
red from the fact that he did not at first see the absolute
necessity of a chaperon for Miss Marie, in the case of her
sitting to him. He mentioned a lady whose bust he had
executed, and who always came alone.
" She was married, of course," said Miss Marie.
"Oh, certainly-her husband gave me the commission."
" Oh !" said Rosemary, laughing, "that explains it. Madame
and mademoiselle !-they are beings of an entirely different
species, you understand ?" She looked like'her grandmother
in saying it, and even her laugh, sweet and musical, had some-
thing of Mrs. Dashon's short, satirical emphasis. She was
amused at Mr. Rory's simplicity in supposing that she-demoi--
selle-she-Rose Marie Dashon !-would visit a young man's
studio without a matron ! Above all, clandestinely ! for the
matter was to be a profound secret.
Not only so. The person by whom she was to be matronized
was not to the young lady an indifferent question. Miss Tan-
kerville was only demoiselle, after all, and was too busy; Mrs.
Varick was not to be -trusted; no other lady but Madame
d'Ehrenstein, in short, would quite answer: but who would ask
Madame d'Ehrenstein ?-" Not I, certainly," said Mademoiselle
Rose Marie ; "nor you, Mr. Rory."
"The person to do it," said ; Mr. Rory, who began dimly to
see the difficulty, "is Count Wissen."
" And who shall ask M. de Wissen ?'' demanded Rosemary.
"Encore unefois, not I, monsieur I"

4


ROSEMARY.

ARAB.

3

"'I will ask him myself."
Mr. Rory asked the count to ask Madame d'Ehrenstein.
The count first carefully ascertained from Mademoiselle Rose
that such was her desire ; then he proposed it to madame.
Madame liked Mademoiselle Marie exceedingly, but she was
averse to meddling in any affairs of other people where secrecy
was to be observed, particularly if a very accomplished young
man and a very beautiful young lady were the parties. All
the objections which the tact of Rosemary foresaw, came up.
Why should it be made a secret? It was to be a draped
figure, she inferred, of course?.
" Fie, madame la comtesse !" said M. de Wissen.
"Then why the secret ? And why shall not any other mar-
ried lady in the family answer as well as I ."
"If you accept the office, madame, the most complete con-
fidence shall be placed in your discretion. The reasons shall
be told you."
Madame wished the revelation antecedent to the promise.
The Minister pointed out that this could not be expected.
Piqued by curiosity and willing, after all, to oblige all the
parties, madame consented on condition that the secret when
revealed did not violate her sense of the proprieties.
"The secret is, madam," said the count, "that Miss Marie
is supposed by her family to be dead, and the statue for
which she is to sit has been ordered by them for her tomb."
"That is frightful !" said the countess.
"It is one of those crimes," said the Minister, "which every
day approximate the model republic more and more to the
most corrupt of the old European societies."
4' A crime," said the countess, "of which Mademoiselle
Marie has barely escaped being the victim ?"
"You divine it."
" She is, then, aP I had conjectured, a great heiress ? Per-
haps also has she still reason to fear."
"She has motives of her own, and very amiable ones, for
secrecy ; but for my part.I frankly avow to you that I do not
consider her life safe, if her enemies discover that she has
escaped the fate they destined for her. The crime cannot (in

a -

"       "    ;
i  s,~p  _ _
'( ~
lY +
i Y
W  w

my opinion) be traced to them, nbr is there anything that can
hinder its repetition."
"You overwhelm me," said Madame d'Ehrenstein. "If I
can serve mademoiselle, she may command me."
Mrs. Dashon, who had no idea of the amount of labor
involved, wished the chapel to be finished by early autumn.
Mr. Rory informed her that it was rigorously possible, but
would greatly increase the expense.--" That is of no con-
sequence, do you understand ?"-" Then we shall double
the estimate," said Mr. Rory.-Thus the affair went forward
regardless of cost. In some points the desired rapidity of exe-
cution-was quite easy. The plan of the chapel was already in
O'Morra's portfolio, for it was an idea on which he had long
meditated; he placed it immediately in the hands of an archi-.
tect who engaged to produce without delay the working draw-
ings. The instant these were finished, they were committed to
the best workmen, and the liberality of the terms secured
utmost promptitude. The foundation was commenced at o e.
The second day after Rosemary's visit to Greenwood, destroyed
for a time the beauty of the knoll. Grandmamma having
her husband's power of attorney, opened a credit for Mr. Rory
O'Morra at her bank, for the full amount of his estimate, assur-
ing him that more should be forthcoming, if desid.
Every evening Mr. Rory had something to communicate to
Miss Marid. When he informed her of her grandmother's
great business liberality, he added:-" I can now lend you any
amount you may require."
"That is good news," said Rosemary, "for I have only a few
shillings left, since paying Dr. Galenson ; and I wish to send a
handsome consultation-fee to Dr Mannikin."
O'Morra smiled; not grimly, like his father; yet there was
a trick of his father in it.
"My father will lend you as much as you want, but I
thought it would be more agreeable to you to use what is
reallyyour own, like your grandmother's deposit to my
credit."
"Don't give yourself the trouble to explain the propriety of
it," said Rosemary, laughing. "I shall draw on you without

892


394               ROSEMARY.

the slightest scruple. When you present the item in your
account-' Furnished Miss Dashon for pocket-money'-you
need not fear it will be disputed. But as something may
happen to me, I will always give you a receipt."
This was, indeed, a great relief to our heroine, to whom the.
novel pressure of pecuniary difficulty was very irksome. With
the generous feeling of an heiress whose life had been saved,
by consummate skill and unbounded assiduity, she had in-
sisted on paying Dr. Galenson a fee which the most eminent
physician in New York would have considered liberal for at-
tending a difficult case in Brooklyn, besides forcing on his
acceptance a ring of great value, in token of her esteem. Of
course she had been obliged to have recourse to Mr. Cahal
O'Morra, who gage her the money and chid her extravagance.
"Which is quite absurd, you know, Mr. Rory, when you
i ecollect that every flounce on my wedding-dress costias much
as the sum I offered Dr. Galen on for saving my life."
"My father feels that he is your trustee-in loco parenhis,--.
and he regards your interest."
"II comprehend it," said Rosemary, "and feel very disagree-
ably checked all the same."    .
"I see," said Rory, smiling, "that a young woman of fortune
is precisely like a young man in the article of expenditure."
"Nay," said Rosemary, "all my expenditure is strictly ne-
cessary ; and I assure you I am charmed to have a large bank
account to fall back upon. I shall ask you for money, sir, and
never tell you what I want to do with it."
Miss Maria (who never flirted) had. often a very saucy.
way of talking to Mr. Rory O'Morra. Their conversations
were almost all confidential; they snatched their opportuni-
ties ; or rather, to be quite accurate, Miss Marie (uncon-
sciously lingering on the stairs, or walking by herself on the
terrace to cull a nosegay for her hair or bosom) afforded such
opportunities, which Mr. Rory snatched. Then, as we said,
Miss Marie's manner was a little vivacious-not pert (Heaven
forbid !)-but just tinctured with that sparkling sub-acid qua-
lity which sisters sometimes manifest with brothers whom they
love, There was certainly no sentiment in it, Mr. Rory al-

lowed; and every now and then, quite carelessly, was dropped
an allusion to the wedding-dress or the pearl-parure, or some
thing to recall that the young lady had been an expectant
bride. Mr. Rory never prolonged the colloquy beyond neces-
sity:  for Miss Marie, with all that sweet acerbity, seldom
used a young lady's privilege of terminating their interviews
herself,
The news or the deposit, and the consent of Madame d'Ehren-
stein were imparted the same evening. Some days, however,
would necessarily elapse, before O'Morra could so far complete
the other preliminaries as to devote himself to the statue, on
which he wished to concentrate his undivided powers. In the
meantime an unexpected and even singular movement of
grandmamma Dashon occurred, which, like her liberal credit
to the young sculptor, gave a livelier pleasure to Miss Mari6
than to him. It would seem that Mrs. Dashon felt that she had
been uncivil to O'Morra in the scene at the vault. At all
events, on the day after the estimate was agreed upon, she
sent him a note to the following effect:
"Mrs. Dashon presents her compliments to Mr. Roderick
O'Morra, and begs him, as he is fond of riding, to accept a
horse which belonged to Miss Dashon, and which is suffering
from want of exercise, no one else being permitted to mount
him. He is a perfect lady's horse, though a little wild just
now; and after a few days' riding would suit very well Mr.
O'Morra's fair friend and guest, whose relations to Mr. R. O'M.
Mrs. Dashon can scarcely mistake.
"No. --       Avi uj, May, 1855."
On the terrace after dinner, the sin just setting behind the
Jersey hills, Mr. Rory quietly put this note into the hands of
Miss MariC, who blushed to the roots of her black tresses, as
she read it.
"Grandmamma is a lady to her finger-tips !" said she. "And
Arab 2"
"Is in the stable at the studio."
"I will ride him to-morrow."
"Had you not better let me try him first, a few days I The

ARAB.               895


ARAB.               397

note says he is wild, which must be so, if he has not been
properly exercised."
"Do you think," said Rosemary, with a deep feminine in-
spiration, "that I am afraid to tame down Arab ?"
"It is clear that this present is designed for your benefit,"
said O'Morra, "for there is a side-saddle with the horse, and a
parcel, which, not conceiving at all what it was, I opened.'
"What was it ?" demanded Rosemary, with another vivid
suffusion.
"A riding-habit, with hat, gloves, whip, boots--"
"Oh, grandmamma !"-She conned the note again.-" She
nas no idea of the truth, I am certain!-I understand it.
Nothing that is mine must ever be owned or worn by the Var-
icks, or by Augusta ! Stern, sage grandmamma !"
"She has fallen into a very natural mistake on one point,"
observed O'Morra.
The young lady stooped to pluck a flower.
"It will be time to correct it (if that is what you mean) when
all her mistakes are rectified."
"In thanking her, then, I shall not allude to it?"
"Consult your own wishes in that respect, Mr. O'Morra,"
said the young lady, with infinite composure. "To me it is a
matter of-perfect indifference."-Pulling to pieces one of the
finest roses that ever grew.
"Then I shall thank her in my own name, and in that of my
lovely friend and guest,'' said O'Morra, with more than usual
spirit and emphasis, "and pass over the rest in silence."
"But remember, Mr. Rory, that the horse is mine-as much
as the habit, which certainly appertains in no wise to you"-
laughing gaily and satirically. " Grahdmamma has no right to
give away my property."
Other boarders drew near,- hearing the twilight laughter,
among them Count Wissen, and O'Morra disappeared.
The horse was brought to the door the next afternoon, led
by a mounted groom: Mr. Rory accompanying on Sorella.
Arab was excited, plunged, reared, and could scarcely be held
by the united exertions of Mr. Rory and the groom. The
ladies gathered in the porch to see the beautiful horse; which

had the effect to frighten him more, so that he seemed quite
unmanageable, and the ladies declared that it would be the
most foolhardy thing for Miss Marie to ride him. Why did not
Mr. Rory, who was a perfect horseman, exchange with her ?
Then appeared on the steps Rosemary Dashon, quite superb
in beauty, in dark-green riding-habit--an open jacket richly
embroidered and white marseilles waistcoat buttoned  to
her throat. She was booted for the ride, but one rose-white
hand was bare. Arab started so suddenly and violently that
he got away from the groom. He dashed to the gate of the
court-yard, but O'Morra had just taken the precaution to close
it. The horse recoiled upon his haunches, then plunged
furiously.towards the garden, leaped over the box-borders, and
drew back suddenly on the edge of the terrace, which went off
sheer fifteen feet.
"Don't go near him !" cried Rosemary. "All keep away !
Let me manage him. Mr. O'Morra, I entreat !"
The girl advanced down the gravelled walk slowly, holding
her skirt, and calling: "Arab! Arab !'' in a sweet low voice.
The horse pricked up his ears. Starting again with a wild
movement he threw his head in the air, and pranced round the
garden, trampling the flower-beds.
"Arab! good fellow ! Arab !"-In a soothing tone.
He approached her extended hand. She stood still, dropped
her train, and with the other hand now liberated forbade any
one to interfere.
" Arab ! good boy--Arab !".-The veiled caressing tone vi-
brated on every ear.
The horse trembled all over. The girl quietly gathered up
her skirt again, moved one foot cautiously forward; she threw
her arm over his neck; he neighed piteously---
Down, Arab !"-And Arab knelt on the grass ; Rosemary
seated herself in the saddle, and held on to the horn, while he
rose. It was the most beautiful sight. The delight of the
animal was evident, pawing, curveting, *hirling around with
restrained bounds under. his young  mistress.  The girl
smiled--all radiant with her triumph.---" Come, Mr. Rory, let
us be off!"

396

ROSEMARY.

".


398

p

ROSEMARY.

Arab and Sorella sprang through the open gateway abreast
of each other, and the lady and the cavalier galloped up
the shady street. Solemn as a post, and stiff as the marble
horseman in Don Juan,Mr. O'Morra's groom trotted after them.
" Th it's a match !" said Miss Tankerville.
"Do you think so ?" cried Mrs. Varick. "Why they hardly
speak ; and Miss Marie will talk in French to the count by the
hour !"
"Miss Marie is not like you, dear, to announce her partiali-
ties in large show-bills."
"Very fine ! Miss Marie is perfection, of course, in your
opinion, Miss Tankerville ! But for all that, I am convinced
she has sether heart upon being a countess."
"What do you think, Madame d'Ehrenstein ?" asked Miss
Tankerville.
"M. de Wissen is likely to captivate any young girl, if he
seriously undertake it," said the countess, diplomatically.
"Monsieur O'Morra is also a young man of singular advantages."
"Mr. Rory O'Morra," observed Mrs. Seymour, rather ear-
nestly, yet laughing at the same time, " is not more attentive
to Miss Marid than he is bound to be to his father's guest. I
think he is remarkably distant to her, and that she feels it."
"You are as clear-sighted as my sister Laura," said Miss
Tankerville.
"My theory is," said' Miss Graves, " that Miss Marie is mar-
ried already."
"Oh !" cried all the ladies, and there was a general laugh at
Miss Graves's expense.
A curious figure-an old beggar, in an inky slouched hat,
neglected tow-like beard and venerable rags-had watched
this whole scene from without the courtyard railing. Few
else had noticed him, but the quick eye of Rose Dashon, ever
on the look out for wayside misery, and accustomed to inter-
pret the silence of hundreds of humble petitioners, had per-
ceived him in the milst'of her excitement ; and as Rosemary,
with the princely spirit that nature and culture had given her,
was always prepared for these occasions,~she had tossed the
poor wretch a piece of silver as she cantered by.

CHAPTER VI.
ALMOST A PROPOSAL.
THE day following was rainy. No ride. The day after was
fine. Miss Marie and O'Morra rode out together. It is unde-
niable that these rides were very agreeable to Rosemary. Why
not ? They were perfectly en regle, in the first place. A young
lady necessarily rides; as necessarily she needs a cavalier,
With a groom some dozen yards behind (provided the groom's
steed can keep so near), mademoiselle is under surveillance.
To a right-minded young woman that is an infinite comfort.
She has the consciousness of being all right. Yet O'Morra
was a somewhat silent and reserved companion. He had not
resources always at his command to entertain a young lady for
an indefinite length of time. But then if they were riding
fast, they could not talk. If they were walking their horses
or gently ambling along some green and shady lane, or
stopping to enjoy a view, the very occasion furnished a t topic
sufficient to prove mutual friendliness, and that sufficed.
Rosemary was fond of being left to her- own meditations.
Once on this very ride, when they had reached a point where
there was a noble view of the ocean, with white sails in the
offing, and a. black steamship ploughing along, not a single
word was said by either. O'Morra lifted his riding cap and let
the breeze play in his tawny locks, as it uttered the hair and
plume of his companion; and so he sat looking over the waves
in silence. Rosemary talked low nonsense to Arab, patting the
horse's black neck, and playing pith his brown mane. Once
or twice Rory looked at her seriously, and then she occupied
herself still more busily with Arab, and never raised her eyes
towards hea young companion.


400              1 OsEMA1W.

On their return, O'Morra said as they were nearing town:-
"I fear that I shall not be able to escort you to-mrrow, Miss
Dashon. I shall be absent for a few days."
"Indeed !"-With a look of inquiry.  "I am sorry."
"I hope that my father will be able to take you to drive
occasionally ; but if not, and on days when he is engaged
Count Wissen, I am sure, will be happy. He used to ride with
me a great deal, and that it may be pleasanter to him, I will
leave Sorella at his disposal."
"You know, Mr. Rory, that strictly speaking I need no
escort but your father's groom-as I suppose I must ride-Dr.
Galenson says so-and Arab needs to be daily exercised."
"Of course you must ride, Miss Marie. You are accustomed
to it, and Galenson says you absolutely require it. He told my
father that in spite of your bloom and apparent health, you
have not yet recovered your full vigor, and that a great
deal of exercise in the open air is indispensable. I hope you
will not fail every fine day ; and all the days are likely to be
fine now ; the weather is indeed charming ; and Wissen, as I
said, will be delighted to accompany you. I will speak to him
about it this evening."
"I should not like to have the count bored," said Rosemary.
"His excellency is not so young as you, Mr. Rory-it may not
be agreeable to him to take a daily ride with a chit of a girl
like me."
"If he does not like it, rely on it he will frame a polite
excuse for not doing it. I know the count. You must not ride
alone, my dear Miss Dashon-not yet !"
After dinner Rory proposed to the count to take a cigar
together in the latter's room, which overlooked the bay, and
then broke to him what he wished him to do in regard to Miss
Marie's daily rides.
"Sorry to hear you are going to be absent, my dear fellow.
How long ? A whole week ! Doesn't that put the- statue back
a little ? I should think you would want to begin'while you
are in the heat."
It was the very question that had risen a. dozen times to
Rosemary's lips, and had been suppressed.

ALMOST A PROPOSAL.             401
"It is that very thing sends me off," said Mr. Rory. "I
shall never get to work, unless I can break away from here
awhile."
" Oh, then you are really about to bury yourself in your
studio, to make a beginning  --i understand."
Rory made an -evasive answer, and M. de Wissen too prac-
tsed, a diplomat to be deceived by so young a man, saw that
there was something else, and he determined to ascertain what
it was. With O'Morra frankness was the best plan always.
I see that there is something wtong, Rory, or you would
not be leaving us at this moment, or looking for a substitute in
your natural office as Miss Marid's cavalier. Still less I think
would you be deferring the commencement of this most import
ant work. Madam Dashon will be sending or coming here to
inquire after you."
"I shall send her a note to explain that I am absent for a
few days on the business of the monument--that will keep her
quiet."
"You have not quarrelled with Miss Rose ''
"Absurd ! no, indeed."
"Nor proposed to her (in the American fashion) and b
sagely repulsed (on French principles) '',a      een
"I shall never propose to any lady in the American fashi
consequently I shall never experience a repulse."
"Yet you quit her and surrender your fascinating privileges
as host and quasi-frere to another-a rival, perhaps, M  Rory
n   above all retire from 'the real source of your hapiest
inspiration-for such, with all your talent and marvellous
industry, Rosemary. Dashon has been to you, my young friend."
Rory gave his half-finished cigar a toss that flung it entirely
clear of the terrace, and rising paced the room. M. de Wissen
hummed a 'military air, accompanying himself with a very
skilful drunimajor performance with the knuckles on the
Windosi-s. Then the count, who was smoking cigarettes, lit
a fresh one, still not interrupting Mr. Rory's meditation,
"I see, Wissen," said O'Morra at last, in a rather grave tone
"that unless I explain, you will attribute this move of mine to
a cause that does not exist. It is really and solely with a view


402                    ROSEMARY.
to my proposed work that I am going away. You think, I
dare say, that this will be to remove from my inspiration. I
differ with you there. I know a good many young artists,
prodigiously clever fellows, who work after the method you
suppose. If they have something on hand, they look over
casts and drawings-fill themselves with the antique-take a
strong cup of coffee in the morning-or a brandy cocktail"-
energetically striking his open palm-" put their studio in first-
rate order-and if they are lucky enough to have a good
model, they are all right. Sometimes these fellows produce
autiful things, but things in which I feel a great want. Un-
less I could do something which to me seems higher, I should
quit my art in disgust. I would even go into politics, as my
father wishes. It would be better to be President than a mere
marble-carver."
"Ah! you would rather be President !" said the count,
laughing. "Well, I conceive your horror of marble-carving
now !"
Co This monument, for instance-I could execute it mechani-
cally. A simple portrait of Rose Dashon, executed with loving
fidelity, would possess a charm. But that is not my idea! To
realize my idea, I must fly from her intoxicating presence.
She overpowers me with the reality of her flesh and blood
loveliness ; my spiritual p6wer is paralyzed, my imagination
droops; it is only our present mortal life, her womanly swveet-
ness, and earthly bridals, and the mother shining through the
maid, that I can think of :-the eternal, the unchangeable, the
impassible life, ever virgin, ever pure: they escape me. I must
go, Wissen, into solitude ; I must meditate or the Four Last
Things ; by fasting, vigil, discipline and prayer, I must purify
my spirit till it spring to the height where I wish it to soar."
With these words, Rory abruptly quitted the room.
"A  singular youth ! Art is his mistress. After all, his
method, I believe, was that of the grand old painters and
sculptors. Does he not, however, overrate his power when he
supposes that by following their method he can rival their
works ? His bust in the Exhibition is marvellous, but it is ~a
recollection of Rose Dashon, from whom he now flees.

ALMOST A PROPOSAL.               40
Whether that flight is conscious weakness, or a rare strength
of will, remains to be seen. In the meanwhile, M. le comte,
-your game is clear. In love as in war, the successful general
is he who knows the value of minutes. It is clear that Rory
intentionally abandons to me his pretensions (whatever they
are) to the peerless Rose. A whole week ! Many a campaign
has been decided by the combinations of a week. If I suc-
ceed, I shall ask my recall;--in Europe, with such a bride,
such a fortune, what position under the throne in not open to
a noble? Yet I think that after showing her, 'I would rather
eschew courts, which would be fatal to that adorable simpli-
city, restore magnificently the ancestral chateau, and live en
grand seignewr in the country the remainder of my days."
The week passed swiftly. It was the most perfect weather
that could be imagined. There were showers in the night,
enough to lay the dust. The roads were in capital order ; the
country green as an emerald. Count Wissen and Miss Marid
(attended by Mr. O'Morra's groom) rode out every afternoon.
Cahal 0'Morra did not like it at all, and grumbled at Rory's
absence every day at breakfast, and proposed to treat Miss
Mari6 to a drive in the dog-cart; but in fact, it was utterly
impossible for him to leave court. Madam d'Ehrenstein was
secretly displeased that after her consent given, Mr. Rory
O'Morra should defer availing himself of it to begin the sittings.
Miss MariC doubtless had -her own speculations, but as she kept
them strictly to herself, there is no telling what they were. The
gentlemen were inclined to bet on the count. Rus6 had always
leaned that way. He thought Miss Mari6 (the most discreet
young American lady he had ever known) a great deal too
wise not to prefer a man of three and thirty to a youngster of
twenty-four, who when she was faded; would scarcely be in the
prime of manhood. Forrester, who hated foreign counts, and
liked Rory prodigiously, was much annoyed at the young
man's absence at this critical juncture. He concluded that
when the race came off Rory would be "no-where."
The handsome and witty Minister, though a foreigner, was
not the man to lnt the grass grow under his -horse's feet. In
their evening conversations, so much commented upon by the


ALMOST A PROPOSAL.           405

4O4               ROSEMARY.

boarders, Wissen had entertained Miss Marie with his adven-
tures in Africa, where as a young man he had served by the
order of his government, in order to learn war in what was
then its only practical school. In these narratives his friend
clur de lion (as he always called him, while Rosemary's heart
beat and her color came and went at the name), frequently
figured. Now, in their rides, when there were no listeners, he
spoke to Rosemary openly of her father, tracing the resem-
blanc between them in features and disposition ; and so, skil-
fully advanced to other personal topics ; asked natural ques-
tions; and drew her into a full account of her own history.
Rosemary acknowledged, and indeed openly said that the
count was the most agreeable and fascinating man she had ever
met. His breeding was so perfect; among a thousand Ameri-
cans of the highest class, she thought, you would hardly find
one whose manners were so finished. Then his information
was so varied, and his view so penetrating and sagacious. He
did not utter commonplaces on any subject, or if he did, he
had the art to give them the air of philosophic novelty.
This and much more Miss Marie frankly imparted to Ma-
dame d'Ehrenstein and Miss Tankerville. Indeed she praised
Count Wissen to everybody, and always with a certain warmth
of manner: as if anybody doubted that she admired him. As
for poor Mr. Rory, his name never escaped her lips. .Mrs.
Varick desired Miss Mari6's opinion of Mr. R. O'Morra.
" I have seen very little of Mr. Rory," replied Rosemary, ply-
ing her crochet : "what I have seen, I like."
"Don't you think he is very, very handsome V'
"There's no denying that," said Rosemary, with a smile.
" And such a genius ! Why, that 'Marble Bride' of his in
the Exhibition, is the town-talk, Mr Forrester says."
"I have not seen it yet," said Rosemary with a blush.
" There ! I have broken my crochet needle."
This slight misfortune diverted the conversation from a topic
in which Miss Marie evidently took a slighter interest.
Nevertheless, as a correct historian, we are bound to relate
that Miss Marie about this time had the indiscreet curiosity to
visit the Exhibition. It was the first time that she had crossed

the Ferry since her convalescence. That is not all. She went
alone. Judge her leniently, ye mesdames and mesdemoiselles
(fran9aises.) Even the angels fell. Eve ate the forbidden
fruit. My own opinion is that it (Rosemary's, not Eve's) was
a very venial transgression. The girl had another errand in
New York, one that she deemed indispensable. She went in a
kind of disguise-black and rose, and a thick green veil. We
like to be particular, and have our own reasons for it. Hoops,
rigorously speaking, were not yet known, but crinoline (verita-
ble skirts of crinoline) were, and of an amplitude that left little
to be desired. Rosemary was thus fenced in; a shape that some
would have known among a thousand was effectually disguised.
What those dark loose flowing robes concealed might have
had fifteen years or fifty-till you saw the face you could not
tell; and the face, as we remarked; could be seen only through
a thick green veil.
Rosemary fulfilled her errand, whatever it was, and got into
an omnibus to return. As luck would have it, who should be
in the omnibus but Roosey Varick ? Roosey took her fare. It
was the most fortunate thing in the world that Roosey was
near-sighted, and too proud to wear glasses. When he returned
her the change, their hands touched. After a few minutes the
omnibus filled up, and Rosemary, finding herself next a gen-
tleman in what was to her a disagreeable proximity,--had she
been used to riding in omnibuses, she would not have minded
such a trifle,--pulled the strap and got out. She found herself
at the door of the Academy. The temptation was too strong.
She tripped along the passage, paid her quarter, bought a
catalogue, and entered. After some time she found the "Mar-
ble Bride." Before it, on one of the benches, sat grand-
mamma !
Rosemary's heart beat to stfftocation. She could not resist
the impulse to draw near cautiously, till she stood directly
behind Mrs. Dashon. Good Heavens ! if she were to draw that
veil! The poor old lady, who was alone, sobbed deeply and
put her handkerchief to her eyes. Rose threw back her
veil rather wildly, and looked at the bust. She immediately
saw the portrait-like resemblance, yet so elevated and purified,


406               ROSEMARY.

to herself.  Her eye sank to the neck and its mysterious
drapery ; the medal; the pliant robe, so simple yet so expres-
sive ! At that instant a shriek burst from a woman's lips ;
Rosemary saw a lady sink to the floor, and grandmamma rise
to go to her. She did not offer assistance, but drew down her
veil, and passing through another gallery, made her way into
the street.
The question will probably arise in the minds of some of our
fair readers whether the count took advantage of those daily
social rides to "propose" to Miss Dashon "in the American
fashion." M. de Wissen was an accomplished diplomat and a
profound student of character. Rosemary was transparent as
the finest chrystal,-when she thought fit. One afternoon,
when the week was nearly up, the count led the conversation
towards the most delicate of all subjects, with a young woman.
They were on the very spot where she and Rory had stopped
for the ocean view, and where neither of those young persons
had uttered a single word to each other. The procedure of
the count was infinitely cautious'; but there are some crea-
tures,-partridges, or trout, for instance-that take alarm at a
shadow. You shall step on a dry stem, and away whirrs the
game.
" I have been brought up, as your Excellency is aware,"
said Rosemary,-" be quiet, Arab !-to consider marriage as
something which my parents (in my case, my grandparents)
were to arrange for me. Assuredly, in my present position,
separated from them, and responsible for my own conduct, it
will be my care to avoid everything that may forestall their
decision."
"I admire your prudence," said the Minister: "it is quite
worthy of you."
" As for love," said the girl, laughing, and turning her beau-
tiful head with an expression of infinite vivacity, "I confess
that I have never experienced such a feeling, if it be anything
like what I read of, and what the ladies all say it is. Neither
have I the slightest desire to be better acquainted with a pas-
sion which I observe causes some of my friends to behave in a
manner that violates all my ideas of decorum. If I marry, M.

ALMOST A PROPOSAL.                407
le come, I shall love my husband with all the devotion of which
a female heart is capable-I feel that here"-talh
somewhere on her white waistcoat : "till then, msentighty
for any individual, however deep or tender"-themyi sen ents
a little--"will be a secret of my own conscience, the  ortal
of which I shall know how to guard from impertinent
intrusion."
Wissen was fairly puzzled. She spoke too frankly
him. It was not clear to him that she meant   y to mean
views, at all events,, were most precise and clear. Sheer
stood herself, and her course was decided on. She would listen
to no one's addresses in her present position: and a  e
affections, any attempt to ascertain their secret bent (if any
they had) would be resented as impertinence.


CHAPTER VII.
"DIES IRE, DIES ILLA."

" To-DAY at twelve, madame."
"I shall be at your service, mademoiselle."
At twelve a carriage was at the door. Mrs. Varick, who was
always peeping out of her window, specially when a carriage
drove into the court-yard, perceived that they were Mr.
O'Morra's horses, and the stiff groom as coachman, and de-
clared that Mr. O'Morra had actually gone and bought a new
barouche for Miss Marid to ride in ! Presently came down
Madame d'Ehrenstein and Mademoiselle Mari6, both in elegant
carriage costume, and Mrs. Varick said they were going to
make calls in New York ; but then Miss M. had a large paper
parcel, very big, but very light, which she bestowed with care
on the front seat; and then Mrs. V. said that Miss Mari6 was
taking backa dress to be altered.
The barouche made a rapid course towards the Fulton ferry,
but soon turned up one of the streets running easterly, swept
round into Court street, as if about to take the road to Green-
wood, and after some minutes fast driving, rolled into shady
Pacific, and stopped at young O'Morra's studio. The ladies
got out, Miss Mari6 took the parcel, and the carriage drove
away. A light tap' on one of the valves of the big double
door was answered by a workman in leather apron and paper
cap, who admitted the ladies without inquiry.
The street door, opened directly into an apartment of fair
dimensions, the walls stuccoed of a reddish brown, and lined
with casts-- busts, bas-reliefs, torsos, complete figures, all
helter-skelter. In the middle of the room a settee for visitors.
But the workman, saying in a foreign accent:-" You will see

,y

4

"DIES IRA  DIES ILLA."
Mr. O'Morra-walk this way, signore !" led on to a much
larger and very peculiar apartment beyond, to which the first
seemed onlyan anteroom.
This second piece was about thirty feet deep by forty-five in
width, and nearly thirty high, to the flat, open timber roof. It
was neither celled nor plastered ; was paved with brick and
the light (except what entered from an open door) came from
a single huge square window, not only as high as the roof, but
by means of a dormer, projecting above it. There were oth
windows, but all closed by inside shutters, and barred.
There were many casts ranged along the naked brick walls
of this vast room, and various curious iron implements hung
about; there were several heavy wooden platforms, apparently
fitted so as to revolve on their moveable carriages attahednto
an upright wooden pillar was a huge crane for lifting weights;
beneath it a trap-door. Close by lay a block of whig meights
On one side, near the open door, which looked into a arden,
stood in the light a marble bust just blocking o, b gadn
bloated form; and at a little distance from it, on a bl, a
cast which Rosemary recognized a~t a glance aspta  e  bstal, a
n the Exhibition. It appeared to be stuck all over with black
pins, and she perceived that the marble was to b
which the Italian who admitted them was at work.
There were other doors, also open; one looked into what
seemed a carpenter's shop, with a lathe for turning;
into what was evidently a forge, for Rose1ary  rd another
lows and saw the sparks fly. On the side by which th  h
entered was a plain wooden stair, rising some six feet. The
workman, after laying down a tool which he had hitherto
carried, ascended this stair, inviting the ladies to follow et
led to a door, which he opened with a key astherw   i
door-handle, and which discovered another flight, termiati
in a room above, over the anteroom, quite Pleasantly fitted
up. The walls were brown ; there was a single sqae wid
but the floor had a green drugget, there was a square window
billiard cloth, several large chairs similarly fitted an angre
carved oaken cabinet, a mirror, a table a lar      u
portfolios some book-cases well. filled, an old Cremona fiddle
18      '


410

ROSEMARY.

"DIES IR E, DIES ILLA."

in a corner. As everywhere, there were casts; also drawings,
and some grotesque sketches in charcoal on the brown walls;
but not a single nude: of which below there were plenty.
Scarcely had-they noted the many objects in this chamber with
the rapid eye of feminine curiosity, while Miss Marie deposited
her parcel on the table, when their conductor, after listening a
moment, rapped on the door of an inner room, which opened
and O'Morra made his appearance.
"You are punctual, ladies,'' said Rory, quietly, as if he had
parted from them the morn.. "Excuse me for not offering
you my hand ; it is bedaubed with clay. Please come into
this room. Carlo, you will admit no one, on any pretext."
The room into which the young sculptor ushered his visitors
was of the same size as the preceding, and lighted in the same
manner, but less comfortable. The floor was bare. A few
chairs and a table and various contrivances for asculptor's
work constituted the furniture.  There were no casts, but
quite a number of religious pictures and prints. At the fur-
ther end was a large picture in oil, very old, representing
Christ's second coming-a glory of angels and saints surround-
ing the Lord, above ; below, the resurrection of the just and
the unjust. In the midst of the room, on one of the heavy
platforms before described, was a tall mass of wet dark clay,
which bore about the same resemblance to the figure of a
woman, as the pillar of salt in the plain of Sodom does to Lot's
wife. On the plain solid table stood a figure in the sante wet
clay, and about two feet high, which was even beautiful.
It was ten days since Rosemary had seen Rory, and she was
greatly struck with the change in him. O'Morra was pale-it
might be partly his long dark-green working robe or blouse;
but his features were sharp, and almost emaciated ; that fine
ruddy firmness of the young man's cheek was gone. His large
gray eye shone with a wonderful brilliancy, but the mouldings
of the brow and socket, though. still clear and beautiful, were
hollowed out. There was a slight severity, if not a trace of
suffering about the mouth, the classic lines of which had so
deepened that he looked ten years older for those ten days. Yet
his whole expression was serene and full of sweetness. Rose-

mary, who had been having some hard tho
her heart melt.      aughts of him, felt
"You have been ill, Mr. Rory ?" she said, her eyes filling
"I never was better in my life, Miss R
'think of the model for the stat2", is Rose. what do you
ir of the tbl     statue -"-Pointing to the little clay
figure on the table. "  iei.
-"I like it."
"Very pretty, very pretty '" said Madame d'Ehrenstein
"I don't like it," said O'Morra. "I nee  couldensten.
thing with these baby models"  -jI never could do any-
shae ot o th cly -" m --crushing with one hand all
shape out of the clay : "my model is in my mind."
"Oh, Monsieur O'Morra !" cried the ound.
" Now, then, ladies," pursued O'Morrauntes
ness mingled with infinite cortMora with a slight stern-
nessticMdam w   hrnfntei -courtesy,  I must be a little des..
potic. Madame d'Ehrenstein, will you hav  h  odest
sit in this corner, where  ,w1Iyo  have the goodness to
sitr i ms  er, shre you can observe all that, passes, but
where I must exact strict silence. I can frihyuwt
book, or a portfolio of exquisite crayonsyfurm"sh you with a
The countess chose the portfolio
wondering.,A cai aspr        i, and took her seat, much
wneig.    chair wad already placed for Rosemayo
square carpeted platform in the middle o r rosmaryt on a
pure light fell strongest fromf the room, where the
. time she went into the anteroom, where   the m    ean-
net were, to lay aside he bnmwere the mirror and cabi-
netWer, t lyasd  her bonnet and outer wrappings, re-ap.
hearing in a simple evening dress of pure white cashmere, falling
in soft folds to her feet. A  old  ure hied he aing
the seated herself obdetl   ocmecture confined the waist,
She eatd hrsef obediently to 'his gesture. Rosemrsa
with her back to the countess and hs aete Rosemarysat
picture of the goiu    oia      er face to the old brilliant
Picureof glorious Coming, with its angels in sky-blu
robes and saints with gilded halos. hy-lue
"A very interesting picture," Rory said.
Very! I can hardly take my eyesidoff.fro
"Very well, as you must look at some point in particular
suppose that you look at that picture." pa
"Is the position in which I sit of any consequence?
"As long as you do not lean back, and continue to look at

I

411


CC DIES IRE, DIES ILLA."

the picture, it is of no consequence. You may change it when-,
ever you like. Be quite unconstrained in that respect."
"I am glad you allow, me to sit. I supposed the sitting
would be a standing."
"Not to-day.   Another time I may try your patience
further."
While Rosemary sat thus, her eyes fastened on the picture,
and scarcely seeing o Morra, who stood near his pile of clay,
working it with an instrument into shape, he conversed with her
in a tranquil tone. She was pleased though surprised at this,
for from the rigid silence he had imposed on the countess, she
had counted on more than usual taciturnity on his part. First,
he gave her a history of the picture, painted by a monk in the
fifteenth century. Thence he naturally passed to the subject
of which it treated. All representations of so great a theme,
the crowning event of human history, but lying beyond the
domain of human experience, were unsatisfactory. Rosemary
thought so too. Insensibly he diverged to the mighty scene
itself. His language, remarkably calm and unexcited, but
admirably chosen, became soon the outline of a meditation- on
the Final Judgment. Circumstance after circumstance taken
from Holy Writ came in to heighten the tremendous word-pic-
ture, and in the midst of the scene Rosemary and himself were
placed as assistants and spectators.
"We may suppose that our purgation will not have ceased
before, as it-will certainly cease then. What feelings must be
ours, in such a case, when we shall have burst the prison of the
tomb, to behold the tomb itself, the solid earth, crumble and
melt, and yet feel in our own risen bodies the throb of eternal
life ! What a moment ! the wedding again of the flesh and
spirit instantaneously co-glorified; a fact of which we shall
take note with perfect intellectual clearness, even in the same
instant that the Beatific Vision breaks upon us with its infinite
vistas of entrancing splendor !"
Rosemary's beautiful face kindled like a vase lighted from
within; she leaned a little forward and raised one fair arm
towards the old picture, as if she would have spoken. .
"The resurrection of the Flesh, its glorification, its divii.

nation almost, is to me one of the most consoling dogmas of
our-faith. That body is immortal already in my opinion; it
shall breathe and pulsate, shall see and hear, have motion and
force and splendor, while God shall be God. What is the
grave ? You have lain in it once, yet now you live ! What has
happened to you in a figure shall happen to us all in reality.
You ought to feel this vividly-you, once the motionless
tenant of a tomb !"
From that time O'Morra worked on in silence. At last
Rosemary timidly glanced at him-for she was weary. He
was not looking at her at all; his bright eye was fixed on
vacancy, and his fingers worked, like a blind man's, in the
plastic clay. It was a rude human figure, feminine vaguely,
nude, black, dripping wet; in the body the posture was nearly
all that was evident, and that was roughly outlined; the head
was massively brought out, and under the clay hair, clotted
and lumped, was a noble face, upturned to Heaven with an
expression of wonder, awe, joy and earnest gazing, as upon
some marvellous glory.
The clock struck three ; an alarm began to ring. O'Morra
left off work abruptly, and turning to a lavatory that stood
near, purified his hands from the clay. When he had dried
them, he approached the wondering Rosemary, took her
willing hand in both his, and said:
"I thank you, Miss Rose, for this great kindness. Are you
well since I saw you 2"
"Ah," said madame la comtesse, rising from her corner, "I
trust you have had a successful sitting, Monsieur O'Morra."
"And my parcel," said Rose. " You have not needed it,
Mr. lBory 2"
" I shall. You had best leave it. 'Twill be safer here, per-
haps, than in your own possession."
Whilst mademoiselle in the anteroom   re-adjusted her
toilet for the street, the young sculptor covered his clay
figure from head to foot with wet cloths, the necessity of
which he explained with great suavity to the curious Madame
d'Ehrenstem.
The carriage came rolling up to the studio door. When the

412

ROSEMARY.

Fie

413


414

ROSEMARY.

ladies found themselves again seated in it, Madame said,
laughing-" You have had a merry time, mademoiselle ?"
"Not merry, but agreeable."
"I am glad you like it. That poor Mr. Rory ! To entertain
you, as he did, with such a lugubrious subject as the Last
Judgment! Nothing but a sense of politeness prevented me
from stopping my ears. As if it were not enough for a young
girl like you to sit for a statue on her own monument, which I
observe he plainly intimates is intended for you sooner or later,
he must needs call up the most frightful images !"
"The day will surely come," said Rose, smiling, "whether
we think of it or not."
"So will age and death and a thousand other disagreeable
things. Indeed, it is shocking manners. What has happened to
Mr. Rory ? I never saw a young man so changed in so short a
time. So pallid, so wasted ! One easily sees what he has been
doing-fasting and praying by himself, till he has worked
himself into this extraordinary state of mind. He will not
live long, mind that. Why he looks more like a Cistercian
monk than a gallant young gentleman, as I tool' him to be."
" You saw the angel face, countess, breaking out of that
shapeless clay?"
"My dear child," said the countess, in German, "it is thine
own!"
"Everything is judged by the end," said Rosemary. "We
shall see how Mr. R ory's statue turns out. As Mr. Forrester
would say, I will bet on Mr. Rory."
"Sculpture is quite a subordinate thing, after all," said the
countess. "Let me take you to Germany, and I engage you
shall marry a serene highness at least."
" Ah, countess!" said Rosemary, satirically, "you fall far
short of my ambition. I shall be content with nothing short
of a crown prince."
"A crown prince !" ejaculated the countess, seriously.
"My child, you dream of the impossible. It is the illusion of
very early youth that an alliance with royalty is attainable by
any one who has not royal blood."

"DIES IRE, DIES ILLA.'             415
"C So! Then I shall content myself with an American
citizen."
" You will always be plain Mrs.," said the countess rath
contemptuously.                                  'rh
"But do you know, countess," said Rosemary, "that th
O'Morras are descended from kings ?"
" That is true ?" asked the countess.
"As, sure as the pedigree of the Bourbons."
"It alters the case," said Madame d'Ehrenstein,


THE INSIDE WINDOW.

CHAPTER VIII.
THE INSIDE WINDOW.
A WEEK elapsed before the second sitting. Having secured
by an ingenious machine of his own contrivance, with gra.
duated rules and slides, exact measurements of the figure of
his lovely model, whereby to correct his work, Rory told her
that frequent sitting would be rather prejudicial than useful to
his success. He was not making a portrait, but an ideal statue.
The character which in a moment of inspiration he had been
able to print upon the face of the clay, was a thing of infinite
delicacy, which an unlucky touch might efface for ever. More
depended $n the interior conservation of his ideal than on any-
thing else. Thetsame sentiment, the same character, had to
be expressed in the whole figure, in the attitude, the form, the
mysterious handwriting of the planes and curves of the human
form divine. Certainly he should require her to sit from time
to time, to correct his work, to avoid insensibly passing into
some other character which would not be hers, to freshen his
inspiration, and give warmth and reality to his idea by contem-
plating its living type. In short, he entertained her with a
great deal of recondite philosophy, the sum of which was that
she would oblige him greatly by sitting for the head and occa-
sionally posing for the figure in her simple drapery, which very
much assisted his imagination in seizing the true expression,
while from the very fact that it was drapery, and therefore not
to be copied at all at present, it left his imagination free to
act.
Rosemary would have been better pleased, had Mr. Rory at
the same time returned to the family circle, and resumed his
usual habits. She could not help thinking that his motive for

doing otherwise was simply to avoid her. She knew that he
slept in the house, for she heard his step again on the stair
every morning at five ; it was plain that to escape observation
he entered at night by the servants' door and reached his room
lby the housemaid's stair. Once when she was in her closet,
and Mr. O'Morra's happened to be open at the same time, she
heard his voice in his father's room.
She learned also from Mr. Rory at these sittings the history
of his devotion to an art, in which the skill of so young a
man appeared at first surprising. He told her of his boyish
aptitude for modelling in clay, putty, wax, or any plastic mate-
rial he could lay hold on ; how entering college at eleven, for
six years he never modelled, because his father forbade it; but
learned to draw, in which he far excelled all his class, as he
modestly owned ; how, graduating at seventeen, the prohibi-
tion expiring,.he returned to modelling with new ardor, got
acquainted with sculptors, modelled from the life, and made
himself acquainted through books, prints and casts with all
the works of the great masters, and the pecu ities of the
different schools, till his father got excited, and sent him to Col-
umbia for two years to awaken his political ambition by the
contest for honors. In fine, after graduating again, with hon-
ors-that Rose knew all about from her cousin Roosey, the
young O'Morra had given himself entirely to law for six
months in his father's office ; was examined and admitted to
the bar ; and the next day, making the same choice, with
"the governor's" reluctant consent, bought his studio. That
was but eighteen months ago, since when he had not been idle.
During the last winter he had studied anatomy thoroughly, and
Rose knew the rest.
Rosemary was curious about many other things, and asked
all sorts of frank questions in her simplicity, and those which
she avoided or asked in a very indirect manner, Mr. Rory had
the sagacity sometimes to divine and to answer. The process
of building up a statue greatly interested her. In the first
place, O'Morra showed her that there must be a bar of iron,
tall as the proposed figure, strong and thick, screwed down
into the platform or banker. This barinustbe bent to correspond

*

I

417


418

ROSEMARY.

with the axes of the figure (Rosemary nodded her compre-
hension), requiring the forge, and fitted with cross-pieces
and spines of wood, strongly attached by wire, to support the
clay. This iron passed up through the leg on which the figure
was to rest ; the other leg would receive as its bone, a strip of
twisted lead ; the arms the same. Then the clay was massed
upon this rude skeleton, and the figure moulded according
to the idea of the sculptor, but always nude, even if the statue
were designed to be draped. The drapery was added last, and
required but a few simple folds to give the effect. To adopt
any other method would complicate a problem already diffi-
cult, and render its execution impossible.
Merely to model such a statue as he now proposed, would
require at least six months : so numerous were the planes and
surfaces, the variations of curve and depression, in the human
body, not one of which but must be more or less ideally repre-
sented, without counting those minute details which art neglects.
And in all this, servile imitation and realism were to be avoided,
and the un  of the idea preserved ; a sort of chastity of pur-
pose was requisite, a purity of eye and hand, a fidelity tlhat no
mere sensuous charm could divert; judgment to know when
the true path had been forsaken by the infirmity that waylays
all human effort, and courage to retrace it.
Rosemary smiled. But if we must or may so far unveil her
maidenly thoughts, she began to feel shy of the presence of the
countess at these sittings, and was glad to find that as yet the
figure, except 'the head, whatever Mr. Rory did to it in the
intervals, was enveloped during the sittings in its wet cloths.
At home everything went on in a certain humdrum manner.
Rosemary was popular, but it was allowed by the gentlemen
that this rose had a thorn, and most of them had pricked their
fingers with it at one time or another. Even Count Wissen, as
we hve seen, did not escape, although mademoiselle continued
to ride with his excellency during Mr. Rory's absence, as often
as he invited her. When he did not, she had a lady's saddle
put upon Sorella, and treated Mlle. Angelique to an equestrian
excursion. Every day she contrived to get a glimpse of a cer-
tain mournful equipage that was invariably found on the road

419

to Greenwood in the afternoon.. Grandmamma, of course, knew
that superb horse, and the riding-habit, still better : but even
on one occasion when Rose cantered by with Count Wissen, who
touched his hat to Mrs. Dashon, that lady never took any
notice either of horse or rider, and Rosemary, emboldened by
this, hovered perpetually in sight. It is very hard:.toesay what
emotions were in her filial heart: as a general thing we
describe but the girl's conduct, and leave bur readers to
fathom the hidden depths with their own soul-plummets.
By all this exercise without and emotion within Rose Marie
Dashon grew daily more captivating. Not only her health and
physical beauty were entirely restored, but a new kind of love-
liness breathed over her face and form. The sadness which all
very regular countenances have in repose, and which seems to
intimate that the superior nature, the angel in every man, is
ever mourning over the wreck of humanity,--that spiritual
sadness was displaced by a perpetual varying glow of impas-
sioned sentiment. What Miss Mari6 could be thinking of
excited much wonder. The ladies, of course, went straight to
their fated conclusion, and inferred that she was in love. Mes
sieurs doubted. Besides their natural incredulity on such a
point, what meant those occasional tears--unbidden, yet not
bitter ? What signified that quick and keen sympathy with
every sorrow, with decrepitude, age and bereavement ? Youth
and love cannot realize .these things. The beneficence of
Rosemary was a perpetual stream. She gave with both hands.
Every more wretched shanty on Gowanus Bay had seen her
beauty illumine its dingy cavern. The poor negro 'cabins in
the wild, bush-grown vicinage of Brooklyn, whose inhabitants
live by petty chores, begging and robbing hen-roosts and
clothes-lines, knew her elastic step and almost adored her
bounty. The little negro children,.naked as the day they were
born, playing in the hot sand of June's longest days, sprang up
and trooped round the bounteous girl with delight. She
brought them clothes, which their parents afterwards sold for
whiskey. She was imposed on by many a tale of feigned
distress; but Rose was not discouraged by that; for she knew

THE INSIDE WINDOW.


420                   ROSEMARY.
that she relieved at least an equal number of real necessities,
and so she gave on.
Mr. Rory kept her purse always supplied. She had occasion
once, in a case of pressing necessity--a father dead in a mise-
rable cabin, a m ther lying-in, children naked, starving and
sick, to go to his studio alone in the morning to ask for money.
Charity made her despise rules which to her were more than
etiquette. O'Morra was obliged to send over to New York to.
get a cheque cashed. He represented that it would take but t;
a little while-half an hour or so; still it was far better his
boy should go than she, through that blazing sun. He showed
her mean ' hile all the curious things about the studio, the
marble room, the forge, and when that resource was nearly
exhausted, what should happen but the arrival of a carriage.
"Goodness, Mr. Rory ! if that should be grandmamma !"
He ran to the window of the anteroom, and through the
blinds, always carefully closed, perceived that it was in fact
Mrs. Dashon's carriage.
" What shall I do? Cannot I steal away through the garden V"
"The only exit is by the street, unless you can climb a
fence twelve feet high. But you can go upstairs, Miss Rose,
and remain till Mrs. Dashon departs."
"Suppose that grandmamma asks to see the statue'?"
"I will tell her that it is impossible."
So Rosemary sprang up the stair. She wondered if Mr.
Rory would tell any fibs. She turned to him before closing
the door.
"Don't let her come up for Heaven's sake, Mr. Rory. Should
grandmamma find me here, nothing would persuade her that
it is the first time I ever was guilty of such an indiscretion."
"Rely on me," said Rory, going himself to admit Mrs.
Dashon, who was knocking with great impatience.
"I have found you in at last," said the old lady, giving Rory
her black-gloved hand carelessly.
"You have always called so late in the day, madam, that I
have quit work."
"I came early to-day for that reason, you understand. But
you are not looking so well as when I saw you last, Mr.

THE INSIDE WINDOW.

421

O'Morra. Have y 'u been spreeing"-her short laugh-" on
the strength of my deposit-eh? Take an old woman's
advice, Mr. O'Morra-avoid wine and you know what else:
-the double bane of young artists. You have lost thirty
pounds in as many days, young sir !"
Carlo raised his black pencilled eyebrows into the most
expressive arch that ever rimmed an Italian eye, and took up
his chisel and mallet to work on the bust.
"You will find that I have not neglected your business,
madam," said 0 Morra, reservedly.
"What progress have you made ?"
"The architect who has the chapel in hand has nearly com-
pleted the working drawings. The sarcophagus is in plaster,
and two of my best workmen are cutting it in marble."
"That is something," said madam, somewhat mollified.
"Would you like to see: the castings ?"
Madam assenting, OMorra led her through the garden into a
back building where three workmen were busy. The floor
was nearly covered with huge masses of snow-white marble.
The sarcophagus was yet shapeless, but against a wooden form
were ranged the castings. It was a funeral procession, bearing
in the midst a bier on which reposed a young girl in bridal
array ; the assistants carried torches; priests, robed and stoled,
seemed chanting from books ; behind walked the mourners-a
veiled array.
"How you have done all that in thirty days, surpasses my.
comprehension," said grandmamma.
" Those reliefs were designed and cast before you honored
me with this commission::-ever since Miss Dashon's funeral, the
idea has haunted me."
"Then you have had a month for the statue," said grand-
mamma. "If you show an equal progress in that, I shall
admit. that it is work and not dissipation which has ravaged
your appearance, young gentleman."
"The statue is in a very unsatisfactory state at present,"
said O'Morra.
"Let me see it,.nevertheless. I came partly for that."

-4,r"


"I regret that it is impossible to-day, as my model is up
stairs."
"Ah, you have a model, of course. I suppose that is
necessary. Very well, I am in no hurry-I have some other
things to say to you, sir-let mademoiselle or madame dress
and retire-I will wait, do you understand ?"
Meanwhile they had returned to the great studio. Upstairs,
a window of the private studio, looking down into this room,
had the sash raised to admit air, and O'Morra perceived that
some one was peeping betwixt the shutters.
"I am very sorry, madam," said Rory, slightly raising his
voice, "that I cannot send away my model. It is a young lady
with whom I cannot use that freedom; and assuredly she will
not come down so long as you are here."-With a smile.
Grandmamma frowned, and beat the brick pavement with
her foot impatiently ; she was unused to have her will contra-
dicted, above all by persons whom she considered to be in her
employment. However, Mr. Rory was a gentleman, a person-
age, too, who must be humored-as all artists must-and she
saw even by his smile that he was immoveably resolved not to
gratify her whim.
"How do I know, sir," said she, forcing an air of pleasantry,
"that this story of the model is not an excuse, to avoid show-
ing me the statue ?"
"You are very penetrating," said Rory, with a smile. "Its
is indeed true that the young lady who has been kind enough
to assist me in this work, is upstairs at present; but even if she
were not, it would make no difference. I cannot suffer any
one-not even yourself-to see the statue of Miss Dashon till it
is completely modelled, draped and ready for the plaster."
Grandmamma looked pleased.
"As I hope that it will really resemble my Rose-who was a
pearl of modesty, do you understand?-it appears to me this
should be so," she said.
"That is quite simple," said the young man.
Grandmamma gave him a kind maternal look.
"You are the true metal," she said. "I heard that fine
ladies visited your studio. Now as for the young lady upstairs,

I presume I have seen her very often. She rides a great deal
on horseback, does she not? It is very well-she resembles
my granddaughter in style-I don't say it pains me, yet I wish
she would vary her rides, do you understand? iBut if she is
your model, why does she not come alone, to sit, or pose, or
whatever you call it ?"
"She is very scrupulous in these points ; but I have no doubt
if she knew you wished it she would come unattended."
"I will not admit," said grandmamma, rather sternly, "that
any other woman, any stranger, shall enjoy a privilege refused
to me. Tell her that I do wish it. It is ridiculous to say
that she cannot come here by herself. This is not like a paint-
er's studio; here is a great atelier, workmen about, doors
open, forging and carpenter work going on, the click of the
hammer from morning till night, and a woman too I saw in the
garden, roasting chestnuts for her husband's dinner, I suppose.
Anybody can visit a place like this. My Rose would not have
scrupled. Besides-now I think of it-if mademoiselle is such
a terrible prude, why is she here now ?"
This was a home-thrust. Madam said it and eyed the young
sculptor askance, in her eagle fashion.
" 1Mademoiselle has no objection to simply visiting my
workshop," said O'Morra : "but to own the truth, this is not a
day of sitting---
" Ah, mademoiselle ran up stairs to avoid me !" cried grand-
mamma.-" Ha! ha !"-her short laugh again.-" I was too
sharp for you that time, Mr. Rory O'Morra !-Well, it is natural
but not the less foolish. Tell her from me that were she my
very grandchild whom she so resembles, I would trust her im-
plicity with you. Would to God she were my Rose indeed !"
added the old lady, in a suddenly breaking voice, "and be-
trothed to you, as I suppose she is !"
The shutter flew open ; Rose, pale as death, and evidently
drowned in tears, stood in full sight. O'Morra made a quick
Warning gesture. Miss Dashon slowly closed the shutter again.
Grandmamma, sitting with her back half turned to the window,
did not perceive anything.
" You honor me. beyond my deserts, madam," said Rory,

THE INSIDE WINDOW.

422

ROSEMARY.

423


424

ROSEMARY.

gravely. "I know enough of your granddaughter to be aware
that I am not worthy of her."
"Why not ?" said grandmamma, sharply. "You have youth,
beauty, genius, manliness, a noble character, pure descent-
purer than hers, poor girl ! I never was more sincere in my life,
young sir. If Rose were alive, I would give her to you where
you stand-
"Madam !" interrupted Rory, unable to control his emotion,
"if you have any pity on me, cease."
"How far is your work advanced towards completion ?"
demanded Mrs. Dashon.
"The figure is little more than massed according to its
general planes, lengths and diameters," said 0'Morra, absently.
"The head is quite advanced. I shall hardly dare to touch it
again."
"Ifnit be the head on which you have hitherto been working,
your model must resemble my granddaughter in feature too ."
said grandmamma, quietly.
" It does not necessarily follow. My model is of great use
to me, but the Rosemary that I am transferring to the clay, is
in my mind," said O'Morra.
"You see her, then ?"
"Not as she is, not as she was-but-as I conceive her
appearing when her form, raised from the dust, shall burst the
tomb, clothed only with its own immortal radiance."
"No wonder you grow pale and thin, if you brood over such
fancies, young sir," said grandmamma, kindly. "Yet you
succeed that way. You have the very trick of my grand-
daughter in yonder plaster face."
"That is Rosemary dead ; the statue, I hope, will represent
her living."
"Very well, go on," said grandmamma, rising. "You have
told me many things that relieve my mind. I feel a delicacy
for Rose that I would not even for myself, do you understand ?
were I young and beautiful once more. I was too vain-she
had no vanity., I am glad your wife that is to be resembles
her. But for knowing that, several things have happened
which would have troubled even me. The other day at the

THE INSIDE WINDOW.

425

Exhibition, a young lady-a friend of ours-who has taken
Rose's death as much to heart as if they had been sisters,
declares that she saw her standing behind me all in black and
weeping. The poor girl-she is a little hysterical, you under-
stand-gave a scream that frightened everybody in the gallery
and fainted quite away. What is worse-my niece Mrs. Varick,
a woman of the world, who should know better, went into fits
when she heard of it,.and has kept her bed ever since. An old
French servant, nurse to my grandchild, has got it into her
head that my niece murdered my Rose," added the old lady,
in a whisper, and leaning on O'Morra's arm, as they walked,
out. "Louise is persuaded that her mistress has really
appeared to these two women-to Miss Atherton because shE
was her rival; in short, the greatest pack of nonsense you eves
heard. I know the explanation-but"-sinking her voice still
lower, and speaking in his ear-" I say NOTHING, you under-
stand ?-NOTHING. An cTlaircissement would kill Mr. Dashon--
DO YOU UNDERSTAND 'F said the terrible old woman, eyeing
him significantly, and pausing on the step of the street-door of
the studio. " See ! he sleeps quietly in the carriage all this
time, and my grand-niece is reading a novel. Good bye, Mr.
o Morra. Remember what I have said to you."
There was no difficulty in remembering ; much in under-
standing it. Did Mrs. Dashon really suspect or divine the
truth? He cold not tell. He thought not. But she was an
extraordinary old lady. If Rose were actually restored to her,
would she feel as now? Would not her ambition revive ? But
away with such thoughts. The errand boy was at the door
with the money for the cheque.
O'Morra trembled as he ascended the narrow stair leading to
his sanctum, to find himself again in the presence of Rose
Dashon after this scene at which she had invisibly assisted.
lie found her sitting on a chair in the ante-chamber, with her
bonnet onthe floor at her side, and her face buried in both
hands. She removed them as he approached, but did not
meet his gaze.
.I think, Miss Dashon,".said he, "that hereafter you may
venture to come hither without Madame d'Ehrenstein."


ROSEMARY.
" Of course I shall obey grandmamma, Mr. O'Morra," said
Rosemary, picking up her bonnet and going to the mirror to
replace it.
"I thought sometimes that your grandmother suspected,"
said O'Morra.
She turned from the glass, still tying her ribbons, and gave
Mr. Rory a glance almost as searching as Mrs. Dashon's own.
He was struck with that trick of manner.
" She KNOWS, Mr. Rory !"-And the girl turned back to the
mirror and adjusted her summery mantle.

CHAPTER IX.
CONCERNING WILLS.
WH LE Rosemary applies to young O'Morra to supply funds
for her charities, she is really very rich. When her marriage
had been fixed and it was necessary to make provision for the
support of the young couple, gran apa showed his generosity,
and appreciation of her faultless' 1 obedience, by executing
a deed of. rust todJ:Atherton securing her the income of.
$400,000 ii bonds and stocks for her life, with remainder to her
issue, or if she died without issue, with the power to dispose
of it absolutely by will. In case she died both ithout issue
and intestate, the gift reverted to the estate of the donor.
Atherte  gll held this trust, which happened as follows. It
will be recollected that Romarin, on his departure for France,
settled his cottage property on his granddaughter. The con-
ditions were nearly the same, but as she never touched the in-
come, which the trustees invested, a small personal estate was .
formed ; and by the advice of Mr. Atherton, Rosemary as soon as
she reached the legal age of sixteen, made a will, disposing of
all the property of which she might die possessed, so far as.
subject to her disposition. There was a provision for Louise;
one for the goat; legacies of affection to her cousins, to her
young friends the Athertons, and to her grandparents, and with
a life interest to her grandpapa Romarin in the remainder,
whatever it might be (the will was drawn up, so far as form
went, by Mr. Atherton), va4ous charities were made the
residuary and final legatees, in certain mathematical propor-
tions which breathed entirely of the youthful testatrix. Ro-
marin's garden comprised eight lots on the acclivity of Murray
Hill. It was a year since Mr. Dashon had built on them as

'


ROSEMARY.

many first-class houses, all which, of course, belonged to Rose-
mary, and were let in the name of her trustees. Thus the
property ultimately affected by-her will, or by the trust, was
$600,000, producing a net income of $40,000, which grandpapa
thought was about what a Vicomtesse de Florcal would require,
to move with distinction in the society to which her husband's
rank would introduce her. If Flordal behaved himself, as he
expected (for grandpapa liked the agreeable and handsome
colonel), Mr. Dashon meant to do other magnificent things,
worthy of a merchant prince,-to repair and refurnish the
Hotel Flordal, to rebuild the provincial chateau, and the day
that Rosemary became a marquise, if he lived to see it, he
would double her index  dency. Dreams of ambition, which
not Death only, queller   hopes, but the mere shadow of
his bony hand sufficed a'Q
Rosemary's will was prolluced' by  er  nge trustee
and executor, with whom it had been deposit 6 , was admitted
to probate, and the small legacies were paid immediay.
From the roteiiess of General Romarin, to whom the iiiome
should have been paid, and his not requiring it at Sebastopol,
theta rents and dividends went on accumulati     Ywere
deposited by Atherton to the credit of his trustee account:
but as it all belonged to the living Rosemary, we see that she
is far from extravagant, and equally free from indelicacy in
her free borrowing, her generous expenditure and her profuse
charities.'
When Mr. Atherton heard from hils4ughter the story of her
adventure in the Exhibition, where Grace thought she lia4 seen
Rosemary's spirit, he looked extremely grave. He did not
laugh at her, as most of her friends did, nor account for t".
incident by an accidental resemblance acting on a morbid .
excited imagination, as her mother did; although Grace had
been dreadfully nervous and depressed since Rosemary died.
He questioned her closely, and cross-questioned her, in regard
to the position of the spirit, directly behind old Mrs. Dashon,
its dress, whether it had on a bonnet or a veil, the color of the
ribbons, the fulness of the skirts, and a thousand things which
Grace thought had nothing to do with it, and which, till her

father perseveringly examined her, she had entirely for-
gotten.
"A ghost in crinoline, and wearing a lace bonnet with rose
ribbons-it requires a pretty strong faith," said Mrs. Atherton,
who wished to persuade Grace that she had been deceived.
"I don't see anything improbable, mamma: it only proves
that it was not a phantom of my imagination, a spectre in my
brain, as papa says."
"I am quite convinced that it was neither, my dear child,"
said her father. "The form was really there, behind Mrs.
Dashon and looking at the bust, and I have no doubt it bore
the closest resemblance to our dear Rosemary.".
"And do you think, papa, that there is a living woman
o exactly resembles her? Would to Heaven I could find
er to distractio% for Rosemary's sake !"
".Isfl              d that woman, which will be more
satisfacto      an  a        easoning on the subject of
ghosts," sat her father.,
Mr. Atherton, who w  a man of businessut.'i
table   d figured up the amount of the legacies he hid
und    ass Dashon's will. He also immediately wrote to en.
Romarin, advising him not to draw upon him till the expira-
tion of the year which the law allows to executors for the set-
tlement of estates. The next thing which Atherton did was to
find the artist who executed the bust, which bore so startling a
resemblance to Rosemar." a son (he understood) of his pro-
fessional brother an   itical friends Mr. Cahal O'Morra.
Now Mr. Roderick O'Morra (N. A.) Mlas very easily found.
The bust in the Exhibition had carried Rory at a single bound
to the highest rank in his profession. Had he been obscure,
his father was celebrated.
It was so late in the season that the Athertons were at the
Manor, their beautiful seat on the Hudson. Before the states-
man took the train for New York, he took his daughter aside.
"My dear Grace," said he, "I want you to summon all
your strength of mind and to call your religion to your aid :
for you may be invited very soon to make a painful sacrifice."
"PapaZ"

429

428

CONCERNING WILLS.


CONCERNING WILLS.-         431

Have you heard again from Col. de Flordal ?"
" He writes me by every steamer, sir."
" You answer him ?"
"'Only once, as you desired."
" See now the wisdom of your father's counsel. I am ttm-
vinced, my child, from all that you have related to me this
morning, that Rosemary Dashon is living."
"My father !"    -
'  If I am right, she holds the promise of Flordal; he holds
hers."
"She is living," exclaimed Grace. " Oh, papa ! let us find
her immediately."
"You seem overjoyed, Grace V'
"My father, what are a thousand Flordals to Rose and thy
peace of my conscience ?"
" My own daughter ! Now I recognizgr  yo  he character
of your mother. Say nothi gher by-the- keep your
own counsel. If Flordal write ain, return his letters unopened
as well as   nsfered. Thus, hapwhat may, your dignity is
safe."
To return to the subject of wills. It was a grave question:
Was Mr. Dashon capable of making a will ? What made it
grave has already been hinted by Madam Dashon in one of her
free conversations with Count Wissen; yet may require to be
stated more fully.
While Rosemary was yet at school, knowing the uncertainty
of life and the doubts which had4$n cast on her legiti-
macy, and having in tVew a generous provision for his niece,
Mrs. George Varick, only child of his only brother deceased,
and for her children, one of whom bore his name, Mr. Dashon
called in his lawyer, the Hon. Daniel Plaidoyer, and annulling
all previous testamentary dispositions, executed a will bequeath-
ing the whole of his vast property to the said Daniel Plaidoyer,
to Alban Ath.erton of De Groot Manor, and to "my beloved
wife," Isabel Dashon, in trust for "my granddaughter, Rose
Marie Dashon, daughter of my son, Richard Varick Dashon
and of Th6rese (Romarin) Dashon, his wife, both deceased, for
her use and benefit during her life," and so forth, with remainder

to the lawful issue of said Rose Marie Dashon, and subject to
the legacies and provisions hereinafter mentioned.
To Mrs. Dashon, in lieu of her dower, this will gave the use of
the house in the Avenue, and of a country-house on the Hud-
son (her favorite residence), and $100,000 a year during her
life, and the right to dispose of the personalty by will, to the
amount of $250,000 (which was the exact amount of Mrs.
Dashon's original fortune, with interest and compound interest
from the day of their marriage: which was so stated in the
will). To Mrs. George Varick, the testator's only niece, it gave
$20,000 a year during life : to her husband if he survived her,
half that sum; to each of their children, $250,000, under a
trustee-ship, and remainder to their issue. There were num
erous smaller legacies, ranging from one to twenty thousand
dollars : $100,000 was apportioned to various charities ; eight city
lots and $80,000 were appropriated to the erection of a gallery
of Arts, with an additional provision for its support and the
gradual purchase of pictures and sculpture ; to be called the
"Dashon Gallery." In fine, more than a millionrf dollars was
disposed of in legacies, being about a fourth part of the estate,
excluding from the estimate of the latter the direct gifts to his
granddaughter during her lifetime ; i..e., during the period
anterior to her supposed decease.
All this was excellent; no one could reasonably complain of
such a will; but there was one extraordinary provision, which
was added last of all, as if by a kind- of afterthought, and
evidently prompted by strong feeling, viz.: that if any legacy
lapsed by the death of the legatee, it was not to return to the
estate, but to be divided in certain proportions between certain
public institutions and charities; it being the declared inten-
tion of the testator that no individual mentioned in the will
should profit by the death of another. There was one excep-
tion to this, which clearly showed its animus, viz.: that in case
of the death of his grandchild, Rose Marie Dashon, without
issue, her grandmother, if she survived, should take the house
in fee, and so much of the real and personal estate as would
make one-half of the whole, and $2,000 besides, as if the testa-
tor had also survived the aforesaid Rosemary, and had died

430               ROSEMARY.


I

432

ROSEMARY.

intestate. In short, this provision simply excluded his niece
and her children from any benefit arising from Rosemary's
death: for it was not to be supposed that Miss Dashon would
compass the death of her two cousins in order to add their half
million to her immense inheritance.
If Mr. Dashon had caused this will to be read aloud in a
family council, for the information of all concerned, or had
furnished those interested with a copy, or even a copy of the
stringent concluding article, Rose Marie Dashon might now
be Marquise de Flordal. No doubt he was prevented by the
reluctance which all rich men feel to make known the secret
of their last will--tile last act of their earthly power. It inti-
mated, too, a suspicion which he was naturally unwilling to
avow. He probably intended to make this particular provision
known, but if so, he deferred it.
When Rosemary's marriage had been settled, before she
went into retreat in preparation for it, her grandfather drew
her into his library one evening, and put this will into her
hands for perusal. Rosemary objected to the sum of which
grandmamma was allowed to dispose by will a too little;
grandpapa (with the sweetest smile) should at least double it.
-" Grandmamma loves power," said the sauce-box, "and the
more power she has over her Rose, the more she will love me,
sir."-" I will make a codicil to that purpose," said grand-
papa: "it will be the same thing in the end."-Then the girl
put her finger on the final provision. No ! she did 'not like
that. In case of her premature death to deprive her cousins
of their magnificent natural inheritance! That article grand-
papa must expunge. The affair passed through the usual
stages ; arguments, in which the young lady is defeated ; per-
suasions, which would soften a rock ; caresses that no mortal
heart can long resist; and grandpapa tears off and burns the
obnoxious paragraph with the signatures of the will, and pro-
mises (his grandchild on his knee and her arms round his
neck) to execute speedily another in a kinder spirit.
In effect, the will was spliced; the remainder of the torn
page copied fairly; a provision added, doubling Mrs. Dashon's
testamentary power ; and the whole was ready for signing on

CONCERNING WILLS.

433

Rosemary's marriage-day ; grandpapa meant to have it exe-
cuted in the presence of the family, immediately after the
ceremony-a plan cut short by human malice, and the permis-
sion of Providence. The instrument, ready for signature, was
found in Mr. Dashon's pocket. You see it is a grave question
with all the Varicks: Is Mr. Dashon still capable of executing
this will, or of substituting another ?
Mrs. Dashon, who has nothing (worth mentioning) to gain or
lose, since the will simply gives her her legal share as widow
of a childless intestate, considers that her husband is not in a
condition to alter a will: hence, what is the use of his making
one ? The principal end which a will was to have accom-
plished, viz.: to secure Rose in her rights, had ceased with
her death. Mr. Plaidoyer, vho was a legatee, Dr. Varick, Dr.
Clerestory, in fact the whole Varick connection except Mr
and Mrs. (Norge, who got nearly two millions by their uncle's
intestacy, considered that Mr. Dashon could undoubtedly make
a will. But as nobody had access to Mr. Dashon, except his
wife and those whom she chose to admit, as Mr. Dashon seemed
to have no initiative except for the daily drive to Greenwood
and its mournful ceremonies, it was difficult to see how a will
could be made. Still Mrs. Varick lived in hourly anxiety lest
her aunt should use her position as she herself would unhesita-
tingly have done, to induce her uncle to make a will, and not
only a will, but one which, giving a large sop to every other
Varick, to Mrs. George's own children even, would convey the
bulk of the estate to her aunt herself. Were this done-and
it depended on very ni-ce evidences of capacity and intention
whether it would be held valid or not-Mrs. Isabel Varick's
hopes were destroyed, her crime was fruitless ! That should
never be. Against Dr. Varick's opinion that his brother-in-law
was still of sound mind, though speechless and paralyzed, she
opposed that of Dr. Mannikin, her uncle's confidential physi-
cian, that poor uncle's mind was wholly gone. But she did
not rest with a counter-opinion.
Madam Isabel had a spy on every movement, almost every
wvord of her aunt. She never failed to hear of 'every visit to
Mr. Plaidoyer ; but so long as Mr. Dashon was not carried up
19


484

ROSEMARY.

into Plaidoyer's office, so long as Plaidoyer did not come to
spend even a quarter of an hour in Mr. Dashon's library, with
aunt and uncle and witnesses-matters not to be arranged
without observation, when even her uncle's male nurse was in
her pay,-Madam George Varick was easy.
But the summer wore on ; the Dashons hired a villa on the
sea-shore, within an hour's drive of Greenwood; Mrs. George
went to Rockaway to watch them better ; and she soon heard
of things to alarm and enrage her. One day (Johnson reported)
madam made him leave the vault open, and drive away with
the rest, while she remained behind by herself.-" It was heasy
to understand as 'ow the hold catamaran was goin' for to hun-
screw the plate hover the 'ead of the coffin and look hin !"-
Johnson took the shortest turn he dared, and when he returned
madam was sitting on a garden bench, looking qite pla cid,
yet gave him, afore she got in, a side look out of her "hinfernal
heyes."-If Johnson's surmise was correct, and Mrs. Dashon,
had taken the opportunity to unscrew the silver head-plate of
the burial-case, she must have learned what Isabel Varick
knew, that the body of Rosemary was not there. Isabel Varick
thought she knew what terrible and revolting disposition had
been made of it, destroying forever the evidence of her crime ;
but she was mistaken.
The discovery that the body had disappeared, was sure to
come sooner or later ; it had now come. Did aunt at all sus-
pect how the robbery had been accomplished'? Day nor night,
since the body of Rosemary was committed to that vault, amid
sonorous prayers and with tears, and the silent attention of a
black-robed and bare-headed crowd,.the key had never quitted
Mrs. Dashon's person (as aunt herself supposed), except to
open the vault in her presence. Yet in fact it had been out of
her custody twice ! Once on the evening or rather the night
of the funeral; it was there when Mrs. Dashon lay down; it
was there when she rose ; and- in that interval the key had
visited Greenwood, had returned to the city, had revisited the
cemetery, and had returned to its place, fastened in a black
ribbon round grandmamma's yellow neck, and hidden in the
folds of her lace-frilled night-dress. Again it had quitted her

485

custody,-one night; soon after ; in dead of winter; the sn
on the ground ; when Isabel Varick and Dr. Mannikin visited
the lonely cemetery together, entered the vault, and satisfied
themselves ; both, that the coffin was there; and one, that it
was really empty ! That was a terrible visit. The next morn-
ing, when grandmamma woke, the key was in its place!
Surely all this was not to be for nothing.
Again: Mrs. Dashon had not been in town or visited her
lawyer ; but a very great lawyer, Mr. Cahal O'Morra (name
which Isabel Varick had cause to remember, and which she did
remember with disgust and a sense of retribution), a gentleman
with a smile like the devil's when he comes after a soul that is
his, had driven out to the " Willa" inr a " Henglish dog-cart,"
and had been closeted with master and madam.
Could   hal O'Morra see his way to extract a will from Mr
Dashon Judicial to her interests, Mrs. Isabel held it for cer-
tain that he would do it. Nor was she long in arriving at the
certainty that this was the question which Cahal O'Morra was
invited to decide. He conversed or tried to converse with Mr
Dashon, talked to him of his property, his will, his intestacy,
and convinced himself that that gentleman either did not at
present possess the power of origination, or that some link in
the chain of intercommunication was wanting. Mr. Dashon
was not absolutely speechless, but to articulate was an effort
so painful that he could not be induced to attempt it The
most striking feature in his case was his moral apathy on all
subjects but one. Connected with this was absolute inatten.
tion, and consequent lack of memory. He assented, by such
signs as he used, to everything that was proposed; agreed b
a nod to leave all his property to his wife, and the next minute
to give it all to the questioner; he was equally willing to set
fire to his houses, and destroy all his certificates and bonds;
but at the name of his niece, or that of either of her children,
he closed his eyes and looked stern and irritated. Accustomed
as he was to the presence of Augusta, it was clear that h
merely endured it, like the other sufferings of his condition,
and Mr. O'Morra, having called her in to observe the effect,
Was satisfied that had she not worn a petticoat (which prevailed

CONCERNING WILLS.


CONCERNING WILLS.

over the old gentleman's habitual chivalry), he would have
driven her away, as he had her brother.
Weighing all things in that wondrously exact balance, the
mind of a practised lawyer, O'Morra concluded that nothing
was left but to ask Mr. Dashon to execute the will found in his
possession. Except the last page, it was identical with one
he had executed before ; the last page was in his own hand-
writing; the seals were marked, the place for the witnesses to
sign designated in the same ink and the same hand; if he exe-
cuted it now, there could be but one tenable objection to its
validity.
"The principal bequest is for the benefit of the testator's
grandchild, whom at the time of its execution he believes to
be dead : this argues an absence of intelligent initiative hard
to reconcile with any degree of capacity to execu  a last will
and testament. I believe," added the lawyer, "  t the will
can be sustained in spite of that objection, but it is too much
to expect that it will not be contested."
"Should my grandchild appear and claim under such a
will V'
" The case would be so much the stronger, but it would not
be incontestable. I should prefer in such a case (supposing, I
mean, that your granddaughter were alive), to prove her
legitimacy ; when she would take the whole, except your
right of dower and third of the personalty, as heir-at-law."
Grandmamma shook her head.
"With such an adversary as Isabel Varick that will be more
difficult than you suppose."
"Is not some one listening in the next room ?" said Cahal
O'Morra.
It was only the nurse setting the room a little to rights ; but
Mrs. Dashon ordered him roughly away.
"Are there probable grounds for disputing the legitimacy
of your granddaughter ?" inquired the lawyer. "Is not the
marriage of her parents previous to her birth capable of
proof ?"
Mrs. Dashon, instead of replying, requested the lawyer to
step into her bedroom, which was adjacent; they remained

S
9
Z
;S
F

there together, conversing in a low voice, for half an hour.
When they came out again, the lawyer said, with his most
diabolical smile :
"Then we must make him execute the will, Mrs. Dashon;
and I will defend it."
It was the opinion of Mr. O'Morra that this act should take
place with a certain solemnity, if not in a full convocation of the
family, at least in the presence of its more important members.
Mr. Plaidoyer, who drew up the will, Dr. Varick, Abram Varick
(actual head of the firm), George Varick and his wife, of
course, young Roosevelt Varick, and Dr. Mannikin, as the
actual family physican, might well be called in. The will
should be read to them; they would see that there was nothing
in it opposed to their interests. Even George Varick and his
wife would find that, Rosemary being dead, the will gave them
nearly al at the law would, if their uncle died intestate. So
on a certain day all these persons were assembled by invitation
at Mr. Dashon's residence in the Avenue; the session took
place in the library ; with those named above, Mr. Atherton,
as trustee under the will, was present ; the will was produced,
read, and by general voice approved. Mrs. Isabel Varick, the
only woman present except Mrs. Dashon, objected. The will,
she said, was a devise to a person known to be dead ; it was an
absurd will; she proposed that a new will should be drawn up
in the same terms, but substituting her own name for cousin
Rosemary's: that was the only fair proposition.
"That proposition robs me of two millions with a stroke of
the pen-do you understand ?" said grandmamma.-She tapped
her snuff-box.--" I will never agree to it, nor will Mr.
Dashon."
"Very well, then, madam. Let uncle remain intestate,
unless"-with a pious air-" it please God to restore his mind,
which I fervently pray for. I will enter into bonds to pay my
share of every legacy named in the will which has been read."
This offer dreW Abram Varick, Esq., to his niece's side: he
thought it was evidently fair, and if sister Dashon would make
the same, all the results of the will might be amicably se-
cured."

436

ROSEMARY.

487


CONCERNING WILLS.         489

438                ROSEMARY.

" I will do nothing of the sort-do you understand ?" said
Mrs. Dashon._
" I can't conceive why you want a will at all, madam," said
her niece.
" It is plain enough," said Mr. Abram. " If brother Dashon
die intestate, sister will feel bound to do something, I suppose,
towards paying these legacies ; if the will is executed, they will
all come out of your share, Mrs. George."
"It is a difference of half a million of dollars to me, and of
a million to you, Madam Isabel," said her aunt ; "but consider-
ing how immensely you profit by your cousin's death, I did not
expect you to oppose the proposition."
" I oppose it, madam; I protest against it; and I shall con-
test the will, if it is ever offered for probate-understand that !"
cries Mrs. George. "Uncle is no more capable of making a
will than a dead man."
This dispute was put an end to by a very extraordinary act
of old Mr. Dashon, whom his niece's voice had roused, and
whose eye sometimes rested on her, sometimes on her husband
and son. Roosey and his father sat together a little in the back-
ground. In the first place, Mr. O'Morra, being determined on
the execution of the will, whether Mrs. Varick protested or not,
believing that it could be sustained in defiance of her objec-
tions, took the will from the table where it lay, and approach-
ing Mr. Dashon, asked in a firm, loud voice, whether he had
heard it, did he acknowledge it, and would he execute it'?
"The will, Mr. Dashon, leaves the bulk of your fortune to
your granddaughter, to our Rosemary-do you understand ?"
Mrs. Dashon shrieked to him in a high shrill key.
"Rosemary is dead, uncle-you know that," cries, in the
same note, Mrs. Isabel Varick.
The poor old gentleman put forth his trembling hand to
take the will. Messrs. O'Morra and Plaidoyer pushed the
table (it was a small marble-top side-table, that went on
castors smooth as oil) close to him. On the table lay pens, an
ink-stand, a lighted candle, wax, a sealing instrument-that
no formality might. be wanting.
To the intense surprise of every one, Mr. Dashon took up a

pen. This was a more spontaneous act than anybody expected.
O'Morra filled another with ink and substituted it. With some
assistance his hand was got to the foot of the page, beneath
the writing. "Gentlemen-Mr. Atherton"-said O'Morra, with
a triumphant smile-" please take notice of what Mr. Dashon
is doing, as you may be called on to swear to the facts here-
after."
Grandpapa made an effort to write,-he scrawled a word,
but it was not his name: it was the word
" IF"-
There the pen fell from his fingers-he regarded it pite-
ously a moment, then gathering up the document, deliberately
put one extremity of the scroll in the flame of the candle. All
gazed in silence ; as soon as it was fairly in flames, he let it
fall on ti table and watched it while it consumed. It was now
Mrs. Varick's turn to exult.
" Pretty plain that we shall have no will this time," she said,
rising, and shaking out her black robes,-the first six months'
mourning for "cousin Rosemary,' expiring but not expired.
" Pretty plain that here is spontaneity, gentlemen," said
O'Morra, glancing at his brother lawyers, Plaidoyer and
Atherton.
"There is what ?" said Mrs. Varick, sharply, and turning to
them.
"Best not, exhaust Mr. Dashon by questions or conversation
at present," said grandmamma. "Brother, I shall be obliged
to you all, if you will withdraw."
"I think brother Dashon could make a will by interrogation,
very clearly," said Dr. Clerestory, as he went out, addressing
Dr. Varick.
So this grand experiment failed in its main object, but
elicited facts of great importance, and alarming to Madam
Isabel. Suppose aunt Dashon and Cabal O'Morra, uncle doc-
tor (very hostile to her), uncle Clerestory (bent on a legacy),
and Mr. Plaidoyer (a regular muff), got together and made
uncle execute a will cutting her off entirely? All the relations
present at this grand will scene, with the lawyers and Mr.


CONCERNING WILLS.          441

440

ROSEMARY.

Atherton, would be ready to testify to uncle Dashon's capacity
and independent voliion. He who had burned one will, could
give a rational assent to another. Madam began to fear that
in opposing the execution of the will she had bitten her own
nose off. She concentrated herself in her own dark mind,
already familiar with guilt, to discover the means of eluding
this new danger.
There is an inexorable logic in crime. The commission of
one crime leads necessarily to the commission of another. It
is the mightiest of problems-insoluble sine deo-how to break
this linked necessity which Fate and Nemesis forged. We
speak after the manner of the poets. There is a way to cut
off the connection, and to reverse the engine, but unless that
divine contrivance is resorted to, viz.: repentance, the relent-
less machine rushes on to its own dismal catastrophe.
Dr. Mannikin was still the confidential physician of the
Dashons. The skill with which he treated Mr. Dashon in his
present precarious condition and the extreme solicitude with
which he devoted himself to the case, were too evident to Mrs.
Dashon for her to think of dismissing him. Dr. Mannikin was
acquainted with a class of agents acting on the nervous sys-
tem,-subtle nervous poisons of oriental origin-the names and
nature of which he kept a profound secret alike from his
patients and his brethren. One of these, in particular, of which'
a single drop sufficed to plunge the whole human frame with
all its organs and functions into the immobility of simulated
death, administered in a diluted form, at regular intervals, was
a wondrous prophylactic against palsy.  It was extremely
necessary to apportion and regulate its power. Dr. Mannikin
watched Mr. Dashon till certain slight premonitions of a para-
lytic attack declared themselves, then he would administer a
few drops of his diluted extract, and in a few hours the danger
would pass. The most formidable symptom was the sudden res-
toration of mental and muscular power. Dr. Mannikin checked
the joy of Mrs. Dashon on the first manifestation of this fhat-

tering sign, by pointing. out to her that it was the sure fore-
runner of a fresh and probably fatal attack. At the same time
a gradual improvement of the patient's condition had resulted
from the treatment. Mannikin had predicted evil from the
attempt to obtain a will, and especially if anything like a
discussion took place in Mr. Dashon's presence. The sudden
exhibition of power and intelligence which occurred under
this stimulus, alarmed him greatly. He administered on the
spot, in the presence of O'Morra who lingered after the rest, a
dose which rendered Mr. Dashon instantly insensible. O'Morra
was startled.
"It is the only means to save his life,' said Ezekiel, confi-
dently. "In twenty-four hours he will revive, refreshed and
out of immediate danger: but I will not answer for the result
of repeating such excitements and such remedies. Mr. Dash-
on's existence depends on that vial, sir,"-holding it betwixt
his bony fingers, and relaxing into his skeleton grin..-.
"Exhaust itq power by such doses as I have just administered,
and no human skill can arrest a second stroke of paralysis,
which will be fatal."
It is a singular medicine," said Cahal O'Morra. "What
would be its effect upon myself, if I took the entire contents
of the vial V"
"Death in less than forty seconds," said Ezekiel, gravely.
It was twenty years since these men had met, and Mannikin
had altered so much that O'Morra had not recognized him in
the crowd ; but the skeleton grin for which even at twenty
Ezekiel was remarkable, revived hks recollection; he glanced
at the handsome semi-quaker garb, and said:
"Dr. Mannikin, I believe ?"
Mrs. Dashon sometimes consulted 'Dr. Mannikin for herself.
His relations with Isabel Varick ffr many years past had not
been such as to attract attention, and to Mrs. Dashon he often
spoke of that lady with biting sarcasm. In fact, everybody
must have a confidant, and as the yoke of Isabel often galled
Mannikin severely, it was a necessity to unburden his irritation
on the subject to somebody. He soon found that grandmamma
Dashon was a person with whom it was perfectly safe to sneer


CONCERNING WILLS.

442

ROSEMARY.

at her niece, and by a refinement of prudence, Ezekiel let Mrs.
Varick know that he did not spare her in conversation with her
aunt, ascribing it to policy. Isabel approved, and kept her
opinion as to the motive to herself.
Apart from the danger that Mrs. Dashon would induce her
husband to make a will bequeathing his entire property to her-
self, there was the certainty that if Mr. Dashon, whose life
hung by a thread, died first, her aunt, as widow, would take
without a will half the estate. There was one occurrence,
possible in the ways of Providence, which would preclude both
these contingencies. Aunt Dashon in spite of her vigorous age
and iron constitution, might die before her nearly bedridden hus-
band, the care of whom would then devolve upon his affectionate
niece, his only kinswoman and sole heir.
If Mannikin had been disinclined to serve Isabel Varick, or
recalcitrant to the secret despotism she exercised over him, his
hatred of O'Morra, and wish to foil O'Morra's designs, would have
helped to render him subservient to her wishes. It was a strange
approximation which brought these two men, one as legal, the
other as medical adviser of grandmamma Dashon, to consult
together on the possibility and safety of means to elicit from
grandpapa Dashon a new will. O'Morra calmly took for
granted that ]Mannikin knew Rosemary to be living. He was.
not long in discovering indubitable proof that of this fact Mrs.
Isabel Varick was totally ignorant, and that Mannikin was
sincerely apprehensive of the consequence of her discovering
it. It was evident, therefore, that Mannikin had betrayed his
accomplice from the first,. The womati had meant murder,
while the man intended merely to prevent the marriage of the
heiress and to get her into his power, to let her owe her life to
his skill, and to force her, perhaps, if fair means failed,-to
what 'i since Mrs. Mannikin lived under O'Morra's eye. Manni-
kin's power was undoubtedly very great, and had that poor Mrs.
Grace died as suddenly as Rose Dashon, O'Morra pondered
deeply the possibility of tracing her death to her husband.
Mannikin several times dosed Mr. Dashon, when in a profound
lethargy, by causing him simply to inhale the fumes_ of the
medicine; and when O'Morra proposed laughingly to smell

the open bottle, the physician objected, and stated that it was
dangerous. He was careful, O'Morra observed, to keep the
vial stopped,. and admitted,' on being questioned, that the
active principle was one of the most volatile in existence, and
absorbed by the animal system with incredible rapidity. The
pertinacious scrutiny of the lawyer was very irksome to the
physician; but O'Morra, contrary to his usual custom, was
bland as oil, he never uttered a sarcasm, and seemed to have
forgotten and forgiven Ezekiel's youthful peccadilloes,
O'Morra did not content himself with soft looks and hoie
speeches, of which his glib tongue was very capable. He mad ;.
distinct and magnificent promises. If Mannikin would get Mr.
Dashon into a condition in which he could see his grandchild
without risk of his life, and be enabled to make a will in her favor,
he engaged on the part of Mrs. Dashon and Rosemary, a fee
that would make him independent for life. Ezekiel promised
to do it, but asked for time. Under the influence of this
splendid promise he expressed his sincere conviction that Mr.
Dashon's life, excluding violent emotion, might be prolonged
for years, and that he might even recover the use of his mental
faculties, though not, Mannikin thought, that of his limbs
which were hopelessly paralyzed and atrophied.
O'Morra was satisfied that Mannikin was sincere, but after
long reflection he determined to clench the business by holding
out an inducement greater still., Mannikin had hinted at
another reward. O'Morra engaged that Mrs. Grace, i. e., Mrs.
Mannikin, should remove into another State, and bring a suit
for divorce on the ground of infidelity and desertion. It would
be a bitter pill for Mannikin to let such'a suit go by default,
but it would scarcely be known ; and he would be free to
marry whomsoever he liked.
" As you are an unbaptized infidel," said O'Morra, glancing
at Ezekiel's garb and for once relapsing into his bitterest smile
" Mrs. Grace can have n&amp;conscientious scruples."
Mannikin's eyes fairly flashed with joy: in his gratitude he
even hinted that he could do something for Miss Dashon that
nobody suspected to be possible. What it was, he refused to
say.

443


LETTERS AND LOVE-S  ENES.

CHAPTER X.
LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.
IN order not to confuse events, we have sketched the opera-
tions of Cahal O'Morra and grandmamma down to the begin.
ning of August. To trace fairly the history of Rosemary'
herself, we must go back to the day, towards the end of June,
when Mrs. Dashon nearly surprised her at Rory's studio and
talked in such a manner as to convince the young lady that her
grandmother knew everything. We shall not dwell on this
supposition, for well-founded as it seemed to be, it was incorrect.
Grandmamma's blind faith in the inviolability of her vault and
the integrity of her servants was not so easily disturbed. Like
other incredulous people, once she had adopted an hypothesis
no apparently conflicting fact had the least influence on her
mind. Incredulity is but an overweening faith in our own
infallibility. Mrs. Dashon did not conceive it possible that she
could be outwitted, hoodwinked, deceived and betrayed. Let
us turn to another grandparent, whom we ought not to forget.
The cannon of his batteries silencing the fire of the great
Todleben, did not allow the world to forget Gen. Romarin. In
the spring operations of '55 he was noted for a quality which
in an officer of the highest rank tells on the morale of the ser-
vice-contempt of danger amounting almost to rash exposure
of life. Date: the return of Col. Floral from a mission to the
United States, about the first of March. The military laws
permit slight mourning, but 'there were the deepest weeds
henceforth in the old officer's bronzed face, in the long fall of his
snow-white mustache, and the gleam of his wintry eye.
Floral, too, seemed to grieve deeply, for Rose, whose
beauty, talent, grace and virtue, he never wearied of praising to

her grandfather. The young noble had derived no benefit
from his engagement : even the princely gift destined by Mr.
Dashon for his son-in-law, and which would have doubled
Floral's income, he had sent back from Paris, in a graceful
letter entirely French,-a pointed epigrammatic commentary
on the famous text, Noblesse oblige.
After three months, in the trenches on a sweltering day of
earlyJune, an orderly brought Gen. Romarin a letter. It was
a spot sheltered from the cannonade indicated by white smokes
issuing from the Russian works, by a constant reverberating
thunder that shook the air, and by a cloud that overhung and
partly hid the long circuit of the defences: but now and then
a shell came whizzing overhead. All in calmly superintending
an operation of importance, by which he meant to silence the
fire of one of Todleben's batteries, the old general of artillery
glanced at'the superscription.
"lMon Dieu! It is from her! Ah, soie old letter that has
been delayed-I cannot open it."
With a hand that never trembled from fear, but was now
suddenly tremulous, the, old, officer placed the letter in his
breast, and then issued a brief order. A shell plumped into
the trench, almost at his teet.
"Yes: let the good God take me at the post of duty, with
her handwriting on my heart !" murmured Romarin, tranquilly
regarding the fatal missile.
A young sergeant rushed forward at the risk of his life, and
extinguished the fuse of the shell.
"You have saved my life, my gargon," said Romarin.
" What harm had I ever done you ?"
"You are too careless, my general,' replied the soldier.
Romarin took out the letter to examine the postmarks. It
was an official, almost mechanical curiosity, to ascertain by
whose negligence a letter for Gen. Romarin had been delayed
or mis-sent. Among the stamps of the French civil and military
post-offices,, all in due form, his practised eye distinguished
immediately the American postmark, in which nothing abso-
lutely was legible but the word "APRIL," and the figures "55."
He started--trembled.

445

,-  -                    -',-
_      r    _.       


446

ROSEMARY.

" Strange ! I will open it."
His eye went immediately to the date at the head of the
letter-Rose's business-like custom :-it was the same date,
clear as her brilliant hand could make it-" Brooklyn, L. L;
APRIL 21, 1855."d
The letter nearly fell from his hands. With trembling eager-
ness, he read on:-
"DEAR GRANDPAPA : From the borders of the grave your
rescued Rose embraces you with inexpressible tenderness.
Yes, I live! Thank the Giver and Preserver of life.
"To my grandparents Dashon it is not yet known. How it
has happened is too long a story and the force to explain it
fails me. You know, perhaps better than I, all that has hap-
pened to poor grandpapa Dashon. Separated from all other
friends, nearly the victim of a crime, I ask your counsels, your
commands. My present situation is not suitable, but how and
when shall I terminate it? Yet I ought to say that I am with
kind friends, and that all my wants are supplied.
"I ask you, my grandfather, one relief which will greatly
disembarrass me. Inform my cousin Floral, I beseech you,
that I live, and demand of him the surrender of the promise
which yet hinds me to him. I have no, cause to complain of
my cousin. He has acted like a man of' honor: I expect that
he will do so now. For the rest, not even your commands, my
grandfather, will compel me to marry him. To say that, is to
say all. I require the formal release of my pligh ed troth, and
I require it instantly. Sooner than fulfil it, I will die a
thousand deaths. Should he even seek to alter my resolution,
I shall take refuge in a convent. I entreat you, as you hold
me dear and believe me true, to read to him or let him read
these irrevocable words.
"Heaven watch over you and hasten the time that shall
restore me to your knee and to your arms. Like you, my
grandfather, by the help t-f God, your Rosemary will be faith-
ful to every duty, cost what it may. Sometimes I think that
you are wounded-I imagine you dying-and would gladly, if
that were permitted, fly to tend you. Then I think with shame

I

LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.

447

that my weak affection would thus render a hero ridiculous,
and I blush for my false enthusiasm, Yet it is lucky, vieuz
soldat ! that I am such a woman that no disguise could conceal
my sex, or I should be tempted now to seek the lines of
Sebastopol en garcon, to be near you and share your dangers,
if not your glory. See, your daughter prattles and laughs !
Be convinced, then, that she is the same, although she has
been the inmate of a tomb! For how many hours I lay aban-
doned, defenceless, by the side of my heroic father, I know
not ; but assuredly under that protection not my honor alone
but my delicacy was safe. Once only was the latter endan-
gered, when an unknown hand defended your Rose from
profanation. Kissing those white hairs,
"Your own
"ROSE MARIE."
This vivacious and impassioned letter was written, as we
already know, during Rosemary's convalescence, before she
had quitted her room. The date is important as it shows us
that her determined tone in regard to her nuptial promise,
proceeded from no change in her consequent on new acquaint-
ances, but solely from the light which she possessed in regard
to the feelings of her betrothed. She might have held herself
free, when in her presence on their bridal morn, believing her
dead, he had given faith to another ; but although Rose took
note of that internally, she'considered herself bound to demand
a formal release. Months have elapsed; she has passed already
an ordeal severe enough for any young woman with a dis-
engaged heart ; yet, except to Count Wissen, her father's
friend and Flordal's also, who knew the whole affair from its
inception, has she never breathed a word incompatible with the
faith of a woman betrothed.
We have seen that when grandmamma seemed to offer her,
and according to Rosemary's interpretation did offer her, to
Rory O'Morra, Rose threw open the shutters behind which she
listened, to speak: but young O'Morra prevented her. When
her grandmother s gone, she evidently awaited-and desired
an opportunity f:; explanation, which O'Morra avoided. When

1


448

ROSEMARY.

she reached home, she sat ,down and wrote him a note, which
is abou.   most dangerous thing a young woman can do. It
ran as follow:-                     -
" RODERICK O'MoRRA, Esq.
"Forgive me for shrinking
from the bare possibility that you may mistake my silence
after what grandmamma said this morning in my hearing.
Were my hand in my own, that is, in my parents' disposal, I
would say nothing: for if you understood grandmamma, it
would be well; if you did not, it would still be well. But my
cousin, the colonel vicomte de Flordal, holds my promise. I
am sure that your generous interpretation will assign as the
motive of this note the simple wish to guard my own delicacy
and your happiness."ROSE MARIE."
It cost her a great deal to write, fold, address, seal and des..
patch the above: but Rose was convinced it was her duty.
Without a clear understanding on the subject she felt it to be
impossible to visit Mr. Rory's studio again, above all alone,
as grandmamma desired. The answer was prompt and cha-
racteristic.
"Saturday, June 23.
"MADEMOISELLE: 'l,           y
"I have always
regarded you as an affianced bride ; but although your warn-
ing is thus superfluous for me, I feel its kindness and appreci-
ate its delicacy in my inmost heart. Permit me to subscribe
myself,
myself,"Mademoiselle,
"With the highest esteemS
"and fraternal regard,
" Devotedly yours,
" RORY O'MoRRA.
"Miss RosE MARIE DASHON."
Had? Rosemary been like some great diplomats we know,

LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.            449
she would have written a second letter to explain her first.
For, had she not, in the first place, fairly given Mr. R. O'M. to
understand that were her promise out of the way she had no
other objection to grandmamma's proposal? Secondly, had
she not implied her belief that Mr. R. O'M. himself was in
danger from her attractions, &amp;c.? Lastly, had she not repre-
sented herself as a girl without heart, without pride, ready to
be thrown to this or that as her parents determined, only safe
to consider a bargain a bargain? Her note had been laid
upon Mr. Rory's table, after dinner ;-he came in (she thought)
about nine, and in fifteen minutes after his answer reached
her. Rapid, decided person Mr. Rory O'Morra.
Despite herself Rose thought of him incessantly. Why did
he not come to his meals? Why was he so thin and gaunt?
The ladies all could tell that Mr. Rory was in love with her,
and that jealousy of the count, and her perpetual flirting with
his foreign excellency, had exiled the youth from the house,
deprived him of rest and appetite, and was wearing away his
health and life. Ladies will say such things, or hint them, or
report them as having been said by others. Rosemary did not
believe too much of all that. She had too profound a respect
for Rory to credit his pining like a love-sick girl. His candid,
fraternal manner indicated nothing of the sort. He would be
insane were he jealous of M. de Wissen. Besides, she had her
ideas and some experience of the higher discipline of the soul;
the lines of Rory's pallid mouth, though disguised by a brown
mustache some six weeks old, indicated physical, not moral,
suffering ; and the soft flash of his princely eye (it was the
only term she could think of) expressed not sentimental weak-
ness, but the energy of productive power. Altogether she
formed a'pretty accurate opinion of the immediate cause of
the young sculptor's too refined spirituality of appearance,
but why it was necessary, she could not divine ; was it neces-
sary, she doubted; how it would end, she feared.
Rory ate little (had she not lighted on his dinner just
brought in, one day after her sitting?), worked much, and
exercised severely. He had taken lately to company drill, as she
learned from Ernest Claviger, and the two morning hours once

. - - x
"# ,


I

450

ROSEMARY.

devoted to the gymnasium, were now occupied in the severest
training of the new school. Sorella was abandoned to Count
Wissen, that is, to herself ; but Rory O'Morra got rid of his
superfluous energy in base ball, cricket, boating and swimming.
Forrester told Miss 'Tankerville; who told Miss Marie. that
Rory's muscles were like springs of steel, but that he never saw
a young man, not even a prize-fighter in condition, with so
little fat on his ribs, and that if the boy did not hold up in his
training, he would die of consumption. Rose herself, whose
tendency was to what O'Callaghan (you don't forget O'Cal-
laghan?) would call the "deposition of adipose tissue," could
easily conjecture by the distinctness of the muscles in that
white sinewy throat, and the gaunt shapeliness of the young
man's figure, how it must be. She even feared worse impru-
dences than over-exercise, under-feeding, and mental excite-
ment ; she wished she were Rory's sister, that she might talk
to him frankly ; for thank Heaven ! whatever ailed the youth,
it was nothing a sister might not know, or of which a sister
might not speak. The indiscretion, not being a sister in reality,
of attempting to act a sister's part, was one of which Rosemary
Dashon could never be guilty.
Miss Marie was saved an embarrassment at this juncture by
Madame d'Ehrenstein's going with Ang6lique to a watering-
place for the summer. Other changes occurred in the family.
Forrester set off for New Brunswick on a sporting expedition.
Mrs. Seymour went to her father's in the country, not'to return
till October, with expectations in regard to that return, which
Miss Marie, not being totally blind, could guess without being
told. Count Wissen talked hard of a Western tour, and Miss
Mari6, agreeable as he was and infinitely attentive to her,
wished with all her heart that he would go and not return till
.-.she knew not precisely what term to fix upon-not her own
marriage, for she had not the most remote idea of ever being
married. Well, then, till he was cured of a foolish passion for
an insensible girl, who, she began to fear,'would never feel
any man's merit great enough, not to dislike him from the
moment thatlhe seemed to regard her in a certain light which
every day grew toShi more and more incomprehensible. She

I

LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.

451

comprehended it in women, and rather despised them there-
for, but a man-how could he be passionately interested in
anything but the doing of great things, or the creation of great
works ? Like Rory O'Morra, for instance, whose art was his
mistress, and who to serve her worthily, trampled his inferior
nature beneath his feet ! That was a kind of man-seraph whom
Rose could half adore ; yet even he would sink in her esteem,
if she saw him on his knees to her !
Besides these, there was that petted Mrs. Laura Varick,
sister of Miss. Tankerville: she was going to Rockaway, and
Rosemary was glad of it. Laura Varick was always observing
her; and lately she had learned somehow that her husband's
cousin, Miss Dashon, the great heiress, had died last winter
(strange they did not hear of it sooner), and Mrs. Varick hoped
that Dashon (her naval husband) would come in for a fair
''hare of old Mr. Dashon's fortune. This particular subject,
and how the "captain" had been thought of for Miss Dashon,
and didn't like her, and how plain she was, and a queer
frenchified girl, and not at all popular with the Varicks, Laura
delighted to pursue with Miss Mari6. Ernest Claviger too, the
young man among them all whom Miss Marie really liked best,
and with whom one incautious evening she was absolutely drawn
into a long conversation on art and music,-he was going to
England on business ; and Miss Marie, to her intense mortifi-
cation, was obliged to submit to a declaration from Ernest, that
brought all the innocent blood to her face. She blushed so
extremely and expressed so much and so humble a regret, that
in spite of her gentle but resolute refusal, he went away con-
vinced that he should succeed better on his return., Only the
musical Miss Graves, who was avowedly over head and ears in
love with Rory O'Morra, and the bitter Ruse, never weary of
lashing her for the avowal, remained. Rose Dashon was weary
of boarding-house life, though she was not sorry to have seen
it, in what was confessedly its'best aspect. Then the heat was
becoming oppressive; you couldn't ride before six without
suffering; Rose wore a great flat when she went to the studio,
and white muslin dresses week in and week out.

4

.


I

ROSEMARY.

452

In the meantime, she went to Mr. Rory O'Morra's studio
twice a week, with filial duty for her warrant and her innocence
as her safeguard. Mr. Rory was more than ever austere and
simple. The first time undoubtedly was a great trial to Rose,
like a first battle to a recruit. It was in contravention of all
the ideas in which she had been sedulously educated, except
one, which was that of unquestioning obedience. So she did
as the young soldier does, whose heart beats, or stops beating,
not to speak of the inordinate action of less dignified organs,
yet he presses forward, looks as fierce as he can, and with a
faint cheer, Vive l'empereur !-rushes straight into a battery.
By degrees she found these sittings extremely pleasant. Her
conscience was quite at ease, and so was Mr. Rory. She saw
the greit advantage to him of her being alone. She was not
ashamed to pose as much as he wanted, in whatever way he
prescribed. He explained so clearly in what way it was of u
to him. The dependence of the ideal upon the real, and the
transformation of the real by the ideal, she never before un-
derstood. It is needless to say that there was nothing in the
slightest degree repugnant to her modesty, except that sove-,
reign eye, that too intelligent hand ; an eye to which the
faintest line could teach so much more than it seemed to reveal;
a hand that could record all that evidence and all those
deductions with infallible accuracy, and yet with such almost
inconceivable elevation and purity of aim. The expression
which had so won her in the clay face,-perfected there, began to
diffuse itself over the entire form: the arm that was lifted
with welcome, the knee just bending in adoration, the foot
that sprang from the eartl\in joy, the love, the modesty, the
conscious life and splendor tflnt breathed in the glorious shape,
made of the whole one expressive face. Lines and forms
which in nature seemed to express mechanical force or vital
function; in that intelligible clay were instinct with spirit. The
dark, unsightly vehicle in which the sculptor worked had at
first stood partly between her artI the form; by degrees this
obstacle had vanished, and the pure form appeared as if it had
been modelled in light.
Rosemary was too humble to believe that all that beauty

LETTERS ANn LOVE-SCENES.

458

and divine expression were caught from herself. Indeed,
O'Morra instructed her that there was a supernatural, a divine
ideal in every human face and form, which it was the office of
the true inspired artist to detect, to isolate and to represent in
its simple p 'rity.
"Man was made in the image and likeness of God," said
Rory, in his quiet way, which Rose found so fascinating.
" In ?" interrupted Rosemary. "I have always been taught
to say 'to the image of God."
"If you prefer, I will carry on the conversation in Latin,
Miss Rose-it is the same to me."
"Pardon me, Mr. Rory, I shall not understand a word."
"Why don't you say 'I will not understand,' Miss Rose ?"
"It is not English," said Rosemary, "since I would under.
stand if I could."
"Neither is 'to the image' English ; and when I speak my
native tongue at all, I do not use a barbarous dialect, though
found in Catholic bibles and prayer-books," said O'Morra, with
a dash of the paternal smile.
"I interrupted you, Mr. Rory."
"Man was made IN the image and likeness of God," re-
sumed Rory, with emphasis. "And that image extends to the
body, no doubt. Not that the Godhead is corporeal, but that
the body is made capable of expressing divine things; for
example, the supreme dominion of the Creator over the crea-
tures. So long as this beautiful sovereignty was expressed in
the body of man, so long we read that its dignity was perfect.
The sovereignty was lost, and the dignity was debased. The
office of the new creation in respect to the body, is to restore
that dignity; and of Christian art to represent its restoration."
"A beautiful theory, Mr. Rory," said Rosemary, blushing,
"but difficult to put in practice, it seems to me, while we
remain as we are, with our bodies unredeemed."
"Certainly, every breath we draw-hunger-thirst-sleep--
pain--teach us that the flesh is not subject to the spirit: yet
for all that, there is a way by which the spirit cantriumph
utterly over the flesh--n'cst ce pas 1"
"I should be an infidel to deny it," said Rose.


I

ROSEMARY.

454

LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.

455

" If that" triumph exists, it may be represented. Did I not
think so, I say again, I would abandon my art. Why, even
the Greeks, the masters of sculpture, understood that. What
were the statues of the gods but the attempt to restore the
half obliterated outlines of the divine image in the human form ?
In painting we Christians have succeeded in doing it. The
race of Christian sculpture is yet to run."
It was a hard thing for Rosemary that she saw the young
sculptor only in the act, as it were, of inspiration, in the
moment of his power. His hours of weakness, his lassitude,
his discouragements, and his combats, she did not witness.
She often came to him very weak in purpose, and contgry to
what usually happens in such interviews,left him strengthened.
As it is not only rare, but almost contra naturam that two young
people of different sexes in unwitnessed conversation should
fortify each other in virtue, we must suppose that obedience
has a mysterious efficacy to change bitter waters into sweet.
Rose wondered at that calm, unconscious strength of so young
a man, violently susceptible in imagination, passionless in.
heart, with so absolute a mastery over his senses, gentle as a
woman, severe as a saint, chivalrous as a Cavalier towards her,
and rigid as a Puritan with himself. She little imagined that
when alone Rory found himself most deplorably weak, and was
compelled to sustain the most violent conflicts. He often gave
himself up for lost, and was ready to abandon his work as the
most presumptuous thought that ever entered a hunian brain ;
but, at what cost we have barely hinted, when the hour came,
and Rose Dashon presented herself, with all her dazzling
charms, his spirit rose at once to the occasion, every film of
earth-born passion fell from his eyes, and she was only his
muse, his model, and his inspiration.
The sittings were not fatiguing, because O'Morra's method
was to interest Rosemary to leave her at full liberty, and to
catch her unconscious expression and attitudes. It was rather
the study of her soul, beaming through her -form, draped with
such simplicity that every grace was outlined, than a real
posing. At last, he drew her to her own history, thinking that
to make her live her life over must draw out the deepest senti-

ment of which she was capable. Rose expanded on the subject
of her parents, her mother's tragic story, which she narrated
with touching pathos and the most innocent directness : then
she described grandpapa Romarin, their cottage, her goat,
Louise, her early education, her being taken to her grand-
parents Dashon, their splendor, the kindness of the Athertons,
her school-days, Professor Calcul, in fine, everything but what
preceded her intended marriage. All that, with a tact and deli-
cacy of which girlhood alone is capable, she avoided. It was
a very successful day : O'Morra caught and transferred to the
clay certain human traits, a tenderness, a filial ardor, which
lie had felt to be wanting. Yet there was one expression,
necessary to complete his idea, and deprived of which his work
did not satisfy him. He knew not how to give it. He knew-
he was sure he knew-how to elicit it on that mobile mask of
feeling, but it cost him a great deal to make the experiment.
Nevertheless lie resolved to do it.
The next day of sitting, he said to her with a tranquil smile-
"You have not told me, Miss Dashon, how you came to die."
"That is so nearly connected with another thing," said Rose-.
"how I came to be married."
"You were not married," said Rory, hastily.
"Neither did I die," said Rosemary. "If you really wish it,
Mr. Rory, I will tell you both how I was at the point of
marriage, and as nearly died, and how by means of one I
escaped the other."
This narrative was not interrupted by the listener. Rose-
mary carried it on in the most natural manner, not without a
deep color and much emotion, to Col. de Flordal's arrival, her
acceptance, her retreat, and how at the moment when, before
taking so great a step, she knelt to commend herself to God,
and ask one more counsel, lest it should be a great and fatal
error, she felt herself sink, utterly powerless, yet conscious
not wholly deprived of sensibility, and with all her perceptions,
as it were, rendered more acute.
"I even saw everything till my eyes were closed by Mrs.
Atherton. To the last moment I continued to hear all that
passed in my room, and even in those adjoining. There were


LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.       457

456               ROSEMARY.

strange scenes, I assure you. My bridegroom entered, and I
heard his voice : it was a declaration of love and' pledge of
future marriage to my bridesmaid, weeping by my side--"
O'Morra had stopped work-he muttered something inartic-
ulate-and stood gazing at her like a man bereft of all senses
but sight and hearing.
" I had a greater horror when it was proposed to examine
my body, to ascertain the cause of my death. Had they
agreed to plunge a knife into my heart to make it sure, it
would have been nothing, you conceive: but dear grand-
mamma! how brave she was then! she defended me," said
Rose, with emotion. " I thought I had never loved her before.
Dr. Mannikin, though I believe him one of the guilty, nor do
I yet know his purpose, also- opposed the proposition of the
rest. That peril past, in which I counted the certainty of
death nothing; came the funeral. I cannot relate these things,
Mr. Rory: they are too terrible."
"And you preserve your fidelity to the spouse who so
shamefully violated his to you !" said Rory O'Morra, immov-
able as a statue, and looking at her from under his bent brows
with a gaze as piercing as his father's.
"I have required him to return my troth-I could scarcely
do less and respect myself," said Rosemary.
"If he refuse ?"
"The cloister."
"A needless sacrifice for so poor a creature-pardon me for
speaking so of your affianced husband."
Rosemary held out both her lovely hands-ringless.
"As my hands, so my heart, Mr. Rory. What else has he
had of mine, but my promise alone ? Shall it be said that
Rosemary Dashon gave her affianced neither her love (for she
owed it not); nor a privilege so trifling that one grants it to
strangers almost, that of touching her hand in friendship ;
much less anything more sacred (though our customs sanction,
that too); but her bare mere word of honor, and that she was
not faithful to that till it was released i'
Rory O'Morra, pale as death, turned to the statue, without a
word in reply. Rose knew his habits now so well, that she

fearlessly, though anxiously gazed at him, watching those
wondrous fingers plunge again almost rudely into the clay,
Two hours passed in profound silence. lie took no more notice
of her than if she had been a lay-figure sitting there beside him.
By slow degrees the new and crowning glory came out upon
that mysterious form and face, as if created again from the
primitive slime. Rose saw what it meant--for she had gained
in these sittings almost a new sense :-there was a strange lofti-
ness there, in the midst of the passionate ardors-a pride
almost-the Fidelity of the Bride!--" Yes," it said, "I have.
been faithful unto death !"-Rosemary, with great humility,
hid her own face in her hands.-" Alas !" she said to herself,
" it is not I who have been faithful !"
At the ringing of O'Morra's alarm Rosemary punctually
withdrew to the anteroom, and by the time Mr. Rory had
secured his work and purified his hands, her simple toilet was
completed, and she departed, accompanied by O'Morra to
the street door. That day he detained her. In the first place,
the great difficulty of his work was surmounted ; in fact, instead
of his having covered it as usual with the indispensable wet
cloths, when she re-entered he was gazing at it in silent rap-
ture. Nothing now remained but the patient execution of the
details, in which he informed her he should seldom, if ever,
require her kind aid, until the figure was ready for the drapery,
which would be in about three months.
"We shall scarcely meet in that time, Rosemary," he said,
beginning to cover the lovely and almost living clay.
"Shall we not see more of you at home, then ?" she answered,
affectionately. " It is very lonely there, I assure you. Every.
body, almost, is gone or going ; and that poor Miss Graves
dying for you, Rory !"-With a gay laugh and vivid blush.
"When you shall have heard from Col. de Floreal," replied
O'Morra, in a quiet tone, "I shall be more at home."
" And I perhaps shall not," answered the girl in a very low
voice--so low that it scarcely seemed she ias speaking to him.
"Can his refusal to surrender what he has no earthly title to
retain,impart to you.a religious vocation ?" asked O'Morra, in
a dry,. matter-offact voice, and turning to her with a smile
20

4


LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.

that was more like his father's than anything Rose had ever
observed in him.
"I suppose not," Rosemary answered with gentleness.
"Yet I suppose, too, that my will is free to render to Heaven
the sacrifice not of my virginity alone, which I never for a
moment have ceased to desire with all the fervor of, my soul,
but of my dearest and purest earthly affections."
"EWill you force me, then, to wish that Floreal may be so
base and cruel ?" said O'Morra, almost fiercely. "Know, how-
ever, Rosemary, that if you are an angel, I am only human ;
the victory which innocence and grace render so easy to you,
will cost me my life."-And she saw a bright red spot that
glowed like fire on either cheek.
" This is useless and dangerous," said Rosemary, holding out
her hand in farewell.
O'Morra coughed slightly and turned away; she saw that as
he took away his handkerchief from his lips, it was covered
with blood.
"Oh, Rory !" she exclaimed.
"This is nothing at all,"-coughing again-a fresh stream
from the lips-he went into the anteroom, followed by Rose,
and lay down on the lounge: she ran to the window that looked
down into the great studio, and called Carlo, who sprang at the
first word.
" Ah, signorina, I expected this !" said the workman, sorrow-
fully. "He will die for you at last !"
"Run for a doctor," said Miss Dashon.
"No !" whispered O'Morra, energetically. "I know what is
necessary." .
These few words excited another cough, and its alarming
concomitant; Rosemary's handkerchief, which she had given
him in place of his own, was instantly saturated. But Carlo
had already brought some tincture of aconite from the oaken
. cabinet, and then a vial containing a powerful styptic, which
Rose dropped in water and gave O'Morra a spoonful-- a
woman does all that by instinct. She forgot everything in the
danger of her friend. Carlo went down stairs to break some
ice intimorsels. Evidently, this was not a first attack.

As soon as the workman was gone, Rosemary bent down with
a lovely, cheerful smile and said-" Rory O'Morra, you have
been very wicked not to tell me this before. Now don't
talk."
You pity me-kind !" whispered the young sculptor, with
a flashing eye, in spite of his perilous condition.
"I do not pity you-I love you," said Rosemary, simply.
" So say no more."
This was not very apt to assist the action of the aconite in
depressing the circulation, yet it produced apparently no
harmful effect. On the contrary, Rory O'Morra coughed no
more, and after half an hour.of perfect quiet, during which
Rose fed him with morsels of ice, as composedly as if she had
always done that, he fell, asleep. Then she went aside, and in
whispers questioned Carlo.
Mr. O'Morra had been twice attacked in that way, he said;
his master persisted that it was only excess of blood, and con-
tinued his abstinences and exercise the same as ever. Carlo
believed that the young maestro was mad from love of the
signorina, who was plighted to another, he knew, but che fare?
Was sucha man to die for a pazzo ingrato z"-" Hush, Carlo,"
said Rosemary, "you know nothing about it, amico mio ".-.
Carlo comforted her greatly by the assurance that immediately
after one of these attacks, so frightful to witness, his master
was always better for a week or two. He had known him ride
on horseback the very next day.
As Carlo felt sure that the present attack was over, and was
anxious that his master should not find her there when he
awoke, Rose reluctantly departed, resolved, nevertheless, not
to keep so alarming a secret to herself, but to tell his father
that very evening. While she was dressing for dinner, a note
was brought her from Mr. Rory ; and the boy (said the maid)
was waiting for an answer.
"Saturday Evening.
"DEAR ROSEMARY;
"It would be affectation
to call you anything else now. I conjure you, if you 'love me

4

4.

458

ROSEMARY.

459


LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.

not to breathe a syllable of what has occurred to any one,
least of all to my father. It would do no good ;.for I will
neither explain my course nor change it.
"With unreserved devotion,
" Roax O'MoRRA.
"Miss RosE MARIE DAsHoN."
Rosemary wrote in reply:--
"Saturday Eve.
"DEAR RoRYT:
"I shall obey you, though'my
conscience tells me that I ought not.
"Faithfully yours,
"ROSE MARIE."
It was Rose's intention (let what would be thought of it) to
call at the studio the pext morning and inquire how Rory was,
as she understood from Carlo !that he would spend the night
there. To her infinite astonishment Rory was at church at six,
and waked home with her. He breakfasted with the family,
and was remarkably cheerful, though silent. On the wvay
home, he had condescended to her entreaties by n)t once
opening his lips, except to say that he was "perfectly well."
After breakfast, she saw no more of him till dinner: for a
wonder he dined at home.
On Sunday afternoons Mr. O'Morra (papa) always took a
-     drive, but he had never invited "Miss Mari," because he used
that opportunity to visit his villa, to spend the, night ; and Mr.
O'Morra had no housekeeper. That Sunday afternoon, not
expecting to go out, Rosemary was making believe take a
siesta, which meant a wrapper, a book and seclusion,when Mr.
O'Morra knocked at her door and proposed a ride in the dog-
cart. She came to the door, her book in hand, that lie mi ht
see she was occupied-it was the Lives of the Sculptors in
Italln, and she was absorbed in the glorious existence of
Michael Angelo.     -
"It is Sunday, you know, sir."-In truth, she had no mind
to be interrupted.

"What a pretty Puritan it is ! Better day, better deed !"
" You always go to your villa, don't you, sir'?"
" Andinvite you to accompany me."
" Do you return to-night, sir ?"
" No ; but Mrs. Grace is there, housekeeping for me."
" Mrs. Grace ! Then you expect me to stay all night ?"
" Of course."
" I shall be delighted, sir; but you must wait till I can dress
and put up a little parcel."
"'Tis not yet five ; and half an hour hence, or even forty-five
minutes (if you require so much), will be full early to start.
And Miss Rose ! don't confine yourself to a little parcel; take
a good-sized valise (it will go in the dog-cart), and put up
dresses enough to last you a week."
Rosemary looked blank ; then she remembered that Mr.
Rory (if Carlo spoke true) was sure to be better for a week or
two, and she consented.
After riding about an hour, the horse getting heated, Mr.
O'Morra drew up in a place where the road was bordered with
trees, and took out a letter.
' Now, Miss Rose, while we cool off in this fine shade, read
that letter from foreign parts, which reached me this afternoon
under cover from the Hon. Mr. Atherton, whom perhaps you
know."
Rosemary uttered a faint exclamation 'and took the letter,
which, free from all postmarks, was addressed in her grand-
father Romarin's hand to " Mlle. Rose Marie Dashon."  She
immediately remembered that she had forgotten to send her
grandfather her address. Mr. O'Morra jumped out of the cart
to leave his companion more at liberty, and she broke open the
letter.

" MY CHILD,

" S6bastopol, JUNE 2, 1855.

"You}live!
"How can I at this distance advise or command you? I
recognize in your letter that forcible and passionate character
which your childhood promised, but which of late had seemed
latent. I perceive also a sense of justice that touches upon

460

ROSEMARY.

461


LETTERS AND. LOVE-SCENES.

ROSEMARY.

scrupulosity: for if you are justified in requiring a release
from your engagement to your cousin in terms so absolute,
you would be justified in breaking it. Assuredly there is no
such dreadful alternative before you as a convent or a thousand
deaths. I take it on myself to annul your engagement. So far
from wishing to sacrifice your happiness to ambition, I consent
beforehand, my Rose, to any marriage you may form, no mat-
ter what the birth or fortune or nationality of your intended
husband may be, provided he be personally worthy of you. I
'am confident that you will never make an ignoble choice.
"Yet consult your grandmother. Should she object upon
any grounds but those avowedly of ambition alone, let her objec-
tions decide you. Do not marry without her willing consent.
Preserve that priceless treasure of your heart and person for
one whose merit all will be forced to acknowledge.-A Russian
sortie !-
" RoMArn.",
There was a postscript.
"WE have driven back the Russians with heavy loss : a few
serious casualties on our side. I enclose a slip from Col. de
Florall"
With a sudden sinking of heart, turning away from Mr.
O'Morra, who never once looked at her, Rose Marie ,Dashon
opened the note from her cousin. It was an absolute release,
signed by Flordal, and attested by Romarin. Beneath-
"MADEMOISELLE, MY COUSIN :
"Pardon. I shall pardon myself never.
"FLOREAL."
These brief words produced a shower of tears. Mr. O'Morra
silently jumped up beside her, touched his horse and away
they went. How did Mr. Atherton know what to do with that
letter ? .
"You imagine yourself concealed, my dear child," said
Cabal O'Morra,;"when fifty pair of eyes are upon you. Mr.

Atherton received your grandfather's litter yesterday and sent
it to me to-day. By the by, he desires me to inform you, Miss
Dashon, that your rents and dividends for six months (some
$20,000) are in his hands and subject to your draft."
"What else ?" asked Rose.
" He thinks that your present position is not sufficiently
secluded, and so do I. I propose that you shall remain at my
country-house. How will you like that i Your fortune, and
the lives of your grandparents may depend on it."
Rose was entirely willing, but trusted that if there were the
slightest sign of danger to grandpapa or grandmamma, Mr.
O'Morra would not forget her injunction to arrest those
wretches for what they had already done.
" Of which we have no proof, Miss Dashon," said Mr.
O'Morra, who treated Rosemary with extraordinary respect.
"They have been steadily watched night and day, as you also
have been, since the day you thought fit to confide in me.
They must be suffered to proceed till tl, evidence is in our
hands. Your grandmother is safe. At'least whatever danger
she incurs, it is with her eyes open. Wonderful old lady !"
" Grandmamma knows all, then, sir ?" asked Rose, with per-
fect tranquillity.
"Of course. Gracious Heaven ! what a scene was that when
I told her plainly the truth. She did not relish it, in spite of
her joy and the fever of her re-awakened ambition !" said
O'Morra, smiling bitterly.
" Grandmamma is very proud, but she loves me," said Rose..
mary.
"She does not like the idea of your marrying a certain
young gentleman of Irish descent, and a very harum-scarum
sort of profession," said papa, with a piercing look. Her first
words almost were-' You know, sir, that my granddaughter
is espoused to her cousin, the Colonel Marquis de Flordal.'-To
confess the truth, Miss Dashon, one motive I have in taking
you to my villa, is to get you out of the way of my son-nay, don't
flush up so angrily-it is a motu proprio-your grandmother
has neither asked nor counselled it."
"Then you don't mean to let Mr. Rory know that I am

482

463


LETTERS AND LOVE-SCENES.       465

there ?" asked Rose. " Very well, sir, I shall go down to
Brooklyn to-morrow and let him know, if I have to walk."
This was said with a sparkling glance of indignant resolu-
tion.
"I won't put you to such an extreme necessity, made-
moiselle-you will not be a prisoner in my house, and if you
wish to leave it, a carriage and horses will be always at your
command," said papa O'Morra.
"Do you object to my marrying your son ?" asked Rose,
plainly.
"Has it come to that V" said O'Morra, with a look of violent
surprise.:
"No, sir," repliRosemary, smiling in spite of her vexation,
"but if you wish to prevent it, now is the time to speak."
"Most seriously, beautiful and excellent Rosemary, it would
grieve me that such a thing happened while you were our
guest, separated from your family. For the world I would not
have it said that either Cabal O'Morra or his son used such an
opportunity to inveigle an heiress into a match, which after all
will disappoint the legitimate ambition of her friends. Now
we understand each other."
"Tell me, sir," said Rose, "how long ago did you tell grand-
mamma that I was alive and under your protection ?"
O'Morra took out his tablets-" Three weeks ago."
"Four weeks ago, she herself gave me to Rory, sir., Grand-
mamma has no right to go back after three weeks' silence ; she
will not: if then, you think fit, sir-all I have to say is that it
is very cruel to me, who have compromised myself unhesi-
tatingly at her bidding. I certainly never expected to be
refused."
"I had not the most remote idea of this," said Cahal
O'Morra.
"I have no more to say," said Rosemary. "I shall shut
myself up at your villa as long and as strictly as you please. I
only hope you will have the goodness to command Mr. Rory to
stay'away, for if he come down and ask me to run away with
him, I will not answer for myself."
"You are all alike," said papa O'Morra, with his bitter smile.

"If your grandmother has consented, child, I have no objection,
of course."
They came to a rustic gate ; a long avenue of fine old trees
led on between fields rich with crops, meadows like emerald,
and glimpses of wood and waters, until the avenue expanded
into a park-like demesne, with lawns sweeping down to a tide-
water. Before them, on a gentle eminence, was the house.
The dog-cart flashed along the circuit of the lawn, passed
round the house and drew up at the sea-front. It was sunset ;
the tea-table set (they saw in passingthe windows); and 1o!
Rory O'Morra pacing the verandah ! ie started, blushed, and
came forward to welcome his father's guest, and help her down
from the dog-cart. Rosemary laughed, and sprang lightly
down in her gay manner, hardly touching the young man's
transparent and emaciated hand ; when-after a moment's
hesitation and a shy glance at the papa, she offered her cheek,
and then with the prettiest movement possible, in the French
manner, turned the other to his salute.
The house was of stone, of a reasonable size for a small, hos-
pitable family. The rooms were large, the hall wide ; so was
the verandah, fragrant with honeysuckle ; and hence you com-
manded a white beach, a promontory crowned with firs and the
tossing Atlantic. The place was lonely, not another dwelling
in sight; but far away to the eastward, at the extremity. of a
low point, a light-house whose cheerful beacon already
sparkled in the twilight.
After tea, or rather supper, they all walked down to the
beach. A million fire-flies sparkled on the vast lawn',lighting
up the shady depths under the trees ; some tall Lombardy
poplars shook their heads in the breeze ; there was a gravelled
walk, and a moon just past the full, that threw the shadows
across it. The elder couple (papa and Mrs. Grace) walked
fast and talked loud. The yomiger pair dragged along as if
they had the weight of fourscore to carry, and sometimes
stopped, doubtless from fatigue. They did not converse in
whispers, yet certainly no one could overhear them; for which
reason I cannot tell, though I can guess, what they said.
When they reached the house again, a horse covered with

464              ROSEMARY.


466                   ROSEMARY.
foam stood before the door. The rider brought Mr. O'Morra
a note. He took it to the light, read it hastily, and said to
Rosemary, who had followed him:
" Miss Dashon, your grandmother is at home dangerously
ill, and Mrs. George Varick has gone over to the house to
take care of her."                                                                                CHAPE      XI
A NIGHT DRIVE.
"THIS morning," said Mr. O'Morra, "Mrs. Dashon was
her villa near Fort Hamilton, and Mrs. Varick was at Ro
away."
The messenger had received the note for Mr. O'Morra
New York at half-past five. By five, therefore, Mrs. Dash
must have been at her town house. It seemed likely that
hat been taken ill during their usul afternoon drive to Gre
wood, and that she had proceeded to the city immediately
consult Dr. Mannikin, who, it had been agreed;was to be
once summoned in such a case. How, then, was Mrs. Var
on hand? Was it a calculation based on the fact that
Mannikin visited the Dashons daily, Sundays excepted 
was it a mere coincidence ? If so, it was an unfortunate o
Mr. O'Morra was convinced that Madam Isabel had at l
made a coup, and he saw the necessity of interfering imr
diately, even if he should be obliged to procure her arr
No time was to be lost.
" The most expeditious way, Rory, will be for you to ta
me into Brooklyn in your trotting-wagon."
" I have already ordered it round, as well as the dog-cart
" We don't need both," said his father.
" Let te suggest a better plan," said Rosemary. " Dr
Mr. Rory's wagon yourself, Mr. OMorra, and take me. R
is not in a fit condition for a night drive of twelve or thirty
miles."
"Why, what ails Rory ?" asked his father, turning share
round.
" Nothing to prevent my driving," said the youth. " I
take Sorella to the ferry in fifty-two minutes, with anot

at
ck-
in
ton
she
en-
to
at
ick
Dr.
Or
ne.
ast
ne-
est.
tke
e
ive
ory
een
ply
an
her


A NIGHT DRIVE.

peson in the wagon: my father, Rose, can't do it by this light
in less than an hour andforty-five-with safety he cannot. If
time is of consequence, I must go in."
"The life of Mrs. Dashon and the fortune of Miss Dashon
depend perhaps on minutes,' said Mr. O'Morra, who had
already put on his overcoat and gloves.
"But I must go to grandmamma," said Rose. "If she is
sick, my place is at her side; if in danger from a false rela-
tive, no one can defend her like myself."
"I knew that," said Rory, "which is the reason I ordered
round both the drags. I can take Rosemary to her grand-
father's door ii one hour and twenty minutes, exclusive of the
ferry-if we are fortunate there, in one hour and a half, all
told. Getting a warrant and officers will cost you, sir, another
hour at least: it may be the difference of life and death ?"
"How will she gain admittance when there '?" said Mr.
O'Morra, regarding the girl with his piercing look.
"Leave that to me, sir !" said Rosemary, flushing up.
"And what can you do when admitted ?"
"All that courage and innocence can in defending the most
precious life against cowardice and guilt," said Rosemary.
"But you, Rory ! shall I risk your life to save grandmamma's ?
No, that would not be right."
"What do you mean ?" said papa. "His life ?"
"Psha ! I spit a little blood yesterday, and Rose fancies I
am going to die," said Rory, carelessly.
"Coughed up a tea-cup-ful of bright arterial blood-I know
what it is," said Rose. "He should not have quitted the
house for a week. He came down here, he says, for perfect
quiet, and this is a pretty beginning. I tried hard to persuade
the young gentleman not to walk out this evening, but he as
good as told me to hold my tongue !"
"I am grieved to hear this, my son," said his father, ap-
proaching Rory with a sudden look of anxious tenderness
most impressive on that cynical countenance, and taking the
young man's wrist.
"My father," says Rory, "I have let Rosemary go on, that
you may understand her better. Assuredly but for certain

kind words of hers yesterday, I should have died. I saw by
your look to-night that you thought her forward-don't look
so confused, Rose-you have no need-it was the forwardness
of the leech or the nurse-sir. I am really far from well, but
if I were worse, I would take this drive. My mind is made
up. 'A man shall leave father and mother,' you know, sir."
" Oh! the obstinacy that quotes Scripture in its defence, is
invincible !" said his father, with his bitter smile, and dropping
the youth's wrist.
And at the same text half-uttered, Rosemary fled.
"In a case like this, sir," continued Rory, putting on his
riding cloak, "we want two strings to the bow. Rosenlary
and I will of course reach the ground first, and our action-
hers rather--may render yours unnecessary; if we fail, or are
in danger of failure, you will come in with your warrant for
Madam Isabel and your power of attorney to take possession
of the house---"
" Mr. Rory is in the right of it," cried sensible Mrs. Grace.
"He would be worse fretting here, with his hands tied, than by
driving into Brooklyn. And if that wicked woman that my
husband has took up with these years, is going to be brought
to justice at last, I want to be on hand too. So, Mr. O'Morra,
you shan't want company-I will go with you in the dog-cart."
"We are to have two women in the business !" said Mr.
O'Morra, with an expression of comic disgust.
The sound of wheels and hoofs crushing along the gravel was
heard, and all went out on the verandah. At the same instant
Rosemary came flying down stairs, bonneted, mantled, and a
large thick shawl in her hand.
At the foot of the steps stood the trotting-wagon in the moon-
light, the lightest four-wheeled fabric that ever followed a
roadster; the wheels and frame were red; the mountings of
silver ; the dark-brown body seemed suspended in air. Young
O'Morra stepped in and extended a hand to Miss Dashon, who,
gallantly aided by papa, mounted the light but steady machine.
The seat was barely wide enough for two, with a back an inch
high, and a spring cushion.

*

408

ROSEMARY.

409

t


A NIGHT DRIVE.          471

470               ROSEMARY.

" There's nothing at all to hold on by, that I can see," said
Rosemary laughing, but with real dismay.
"Do you call Rory nothing ?" said his father.
"Put your hand under my cape, Rose, and you will find
that my cloak is belted round the waist with a leathern strap
that will bear any strain you choose to put upon it."
" Ah, it is only something to give me a little feeling of secu-
rity," said the young lady, very easily finding the aforesaid
belt. "I never was driven at such speed as you promise,
which I find to be full fifteen miles an hour, Mr. Rory."
" Roy y," said his father, "take the studio on your way, and
tell Friedrich to harness up the old carriage for me: this horse
of mine will be quite spent."
"All right, sir. What can I do for you in New York, after
disposing of Miss Dashon V"
" Impertinence ! Send your horse into Mr. Dashon's stable,
and go into the house and take care of yourself," replied his
father.
"Are you warmly enough clad, Mr. Rory ?" said Miss
Dashon, in a clear frank tone. "Oh, the cloak is very well,
but white pants ! The most imprudent boy in the world, Mrs.
Grace. If you have any regard for my peace of mind, wrap
this shawl about you' before we start-I brought it down
expressly for you.-No, sir ! I don't need any of it-my skirts
are quite sufficient for me. Oh! ;arrange it your own,way !"--
laughing.-" There ! Oh, wait one moment, Rory-my valise,
Mr. O'Morra !-will you bring it along in the dog-cart ? I shall
need it at home. All right. Now, Rory."
The young man lifted the reins from the dash-board, and
the light vehicle went' forward slowly, Sorella walking, and
disappeared behind the corner of the house.
"Now, pile in, Mrs. Grace," said Cahal O'Morra, grimly.
"Bring down Miss Dashon's valise, some one, instantly. What
a girl that is ! Such a lovely armful to fall in love with a mere
skeleton ! for poor Rory is no more. I must consult Mannikin
for him-or no, perhaps Galenson would be safer."
"Get Dr. Galenson for Rory," said Mrs. Grace, sententiously.
"I don't think he is seriously ill after all," said his father.

"lHe has a constitution of iron, or he could never stand up
under such a pulse."
"Miss Rose will do more for him-than medicine," said Mrs.
Grace.
"You think that Rory O'Morra was dying of love ?" asked
his father, contemptuously.
" Mr. 0 Morra, you know nothing at all about your son,'
replied Mrs. Mannikin. "I do know something."
"As we get over the ground, tell me-what you know."
"Rory warn't dying of love, but of trying not to, under
circumstances that made it impossible he shouldn't. I say
you don't know your own boy, Cahal O'Morra, and you don't.
How many young fellows of his age do you think there are,
with fathers as well off as you are, with horses and buggies at
command, and more money than they know what to do with,
and lots of wild acquaintance, sporting-men and artists and
young lawyers and doctors-the doctors are the worst of all!
-and yet as innocent this minute as the spotless girl that sits
beside him? I used to talk to him about her when she was
"No doubt !" half groaned O'Morra.
" Says Rory-' Mrs. Grace, she is a bride-what are you
talking about ?'-' She'll never marry the gentleman,' says I,
'take my word for it.'-' That would make no difference,' says
he: 'the heart of the woman I marry must have had no pre-
vious lodger. That's the case with mine,' says he, 'and I ex-
pect a fair exchange.'-That's the way it is with Rory O'Morra.
And wouldn't it be too bad now, if after a young man has lived
till near four-and-twenty as pure as a saint, he should be served
with a dish that others have fingered ?"
"Fie, madam !" said Cahal O'Morra.
"They are mostly so, take my word for it," replies Mrs.
Grace.
"I don't believe it," says the cynical O'Morra, in the spirit
of contradiction doubtless.
"Well, to give you an instance," says Mrs. Grace, with femi-
nine inconsequence. "Now this is a profound secret. What
Rory would do to me, if he knew I told you, is frightful to

_'


A NIGHT DRIVE.

ROSEMAnlt.

think of. You give me your word of honor never to breathe
a syllable'? Very well, then: some six years ago, when Rory
was about seventeen (he had quitted his first college), week after
week, his linen (which unknown to him I took care of) was
stained between the shoulders with blood ! I went to him to
know the cause. He was terribly annoyed--didn't know the
fact-was dumb-founded when I proved it on him, and at last
confessed (for I was resolved to get at the truth) that he was
'modelling from the life,' as he called it, and that to 'chasten
his senses' he whipped himself every night before going to
bed, with a frightful little scourge.-"
"The young demon !" said Cahal O'Morra, with a groan.
"'What would your father do to you, Rory,' says I, 'if he
knew of this ?'-' What can he do that's worse V says the boy,
with that imperturbable smile of his that seems to defy all the
devils to provoke or move him.-' If he'd a whipped you
oftener when you was a boy,' says I (for I was real mad), 'you
wouldn't be whippin' yourself now for the fun of it.'-' Mrs.
Grace,' says he,' did you ever hear of St. Aloysius ?V- Never,'
says I.-' He was page for many years to a lovely queen, and
in all that time never once raised his eyes to her face.'-' The
more fool he!' said I.-' Yet he did ten times worse to himself
than I, whose-profession obliges me to let my senses dwell on
the most dangerous objects in the world !'-What could a
woman answer'? Your son, Cahal O'Morra, has aheart of
flame and a will of iron. If a boy of seventeen would prac-
tise such a  erit to vanquish his mere senses, what will
he do     twenty-four to guard his heart against a serious
passio for the loveliest creature breathing, thrown right in
his way, nd whom he looks upon as an engaged woman
You may be surprised to see him pale and thin as a ghost, and
to hear of his raising blood by the half-pint--I ayn't."
"Rory is a good fellow, but wilful," said Mr. O'Morra,
gravely. "Had he taken to the law, as I wished him, he
would have escaped these fine moral perplexities, which, with
a young man of his temperament and- delicacy of conscience,
arise from his present exceptional-profesion."
"Lawyers, in fact, are usually great saints, without any

struggles at all !" said Mrs. Grace. " Pray, did you ever hear
how it happened that while every other profession has a celes-
tial patron, lawyers have none ?"
Unless it be that they are so used to pleading, they can
answer for themselves, I never did."
"You shall hear. A long time ago, when these things were
settled for good an' all, a lawyer in Rome, the Cahal 0 Morra
that was then, seeing this deficiency, went to the Pope to com-
plain of it. Thereupon the Pope, surprised at the lawyer's
piety and willing to reward it, took him into a church all full
of fine statues of the saints and angels, and says his Holiness,
'You shall be blindfolded, and then go up and kiss the foot
of some statue here, and whichsoever image you embrace, he
shall be the patron of the lawyers. So the lawyer was blind-
fold (very carefully too, for the Pope wouldn't trust him no
further than he could see him) and went groping about for a
patron-saint. Now amongst the rest there was one represent..
ing the Archangel Michael trampling on Satan ; the lawyer
went along till he came to this group, and, laying hold of a
figure which he took to be St. Lawrence on his gridiron, his
eyes were unbandaged, when he found himself embracing the
prostrate form of the devil !"
" Ha ! ha! a very good story !" said Cahal O'Morra.
By the time the trotting-wagon had cleared the gardens,
Sorella's hoofs had commenced their regular tattoo on the
hard road, and true as the arm of an orchestra-leader her four
delicate legs went beating the time. The wagon flew along
like a bird, the red spokes of the wheels disappeared in the
moonlight, and yet they were everywhere at once in their
fiery transparency ; steady and nearly springless rolled the
vehicle ; in her feet Rose felt the jar of every pebble, from
which the spring cushion otherwise defended her ; at first she
had grasped Mr. Rory's belt in mortal fear of being thrown
out, but becoming gradually accustomed to the seat and feeling
the steadiness of the hard swift motion, her native courage
returned and another species of timidity resumed its natural
sway.
"I trust you don't misunderstand hny father's coldness,
4*

472

473




A NIGHT DRIVE.

ROSEMARY.

Rosemary," said her companion. "It is a serious mortification
ti him that his son should profit as I seem likely to do by the
chance which has thrown the heiress of the Dashons upon our
protection."
" I understand perfectly," said Rose.
"It is an honorable feeling, after all. I participate in it to a
certain extent."
" Suppose," said Rosemary, "that yesterday morning when I
name to the studio, I had told you that grandpapa was dead, and
that cousin Isabel had produced an old will leaving everything
to her, and that some informality had been discovered in the
deed of trust by whichr he settled so large a property on me
before my intended marriage, and (at the same time, mind)
that Col. de Flordal had arrived and finding how matters .stood
had resigned his claim to my hand-hQw would you have felt V'
"Grieved at your grandpapa's death and your loss of fortune,
husband and all at once ! I would have sympathized with you
as a true friend."
Rosemary laughed incredulously.
" Then I should have set myself to work to elicit the true
account of your betrothal (as I actually did-you remember ?),
and when I had arrived at the delightful fact that Rosemary
Dashon, though once so nearly a bride, was in heart, in hand,
in her untouched cheek and brow, a maiden still, I should have
fallen at her feet-and so forth."
"And your father ?"
"Would have regretted the loss of your fortune more than
I, but the instant he saw you, he would have taken your hand
with a warmth you would hardly credit, and have told you not
to mind, for Rory had enough for both."
"It may happen yet that I shall lose the greater part," said
Rosemary, thoughtfully.
I hope not."
." Then you would like to be rich, Rory ? For my part, I
would rather be poor, to have you dependent on your glorious
art, and myself "-the voice sinking-" on you."
"Extremes meet. Poor as you describe, or rich as your
actual lot has made you, is the same thing nearly in my eyes,

Rose. It is the middle point-wealth in the sense that my
father is wealthy-that I rather dislike and fear."
" Why ?"
"Because it deprives of the incentive to industry. Who,
not pressed forward in the track of fame by severe necessity,
would long submit to the frightful sufferings that I have en-
dured in modelling this statue, Rose, of you? You will say
the case is exceptional; that is partially, true ; but no matter,
the labor of creative production is the most painful and ex-
hausting in the world ; and as the genius which fits one for it
is always accompanied with a vast capacity of enjoying the
beautiful already created, we see why-the great artist in pos-
sibility, become rich, sinks into the mere dilettante. All
experience demonstrates it."
"But great riches?". asked Rosemary, smiling. ' "Is not
their effect the same ?"
"The disposal of great riches is itself a wonderful art, which
sew, it seems to me, have ever understood."
"Is not the wisest disposition to give it all outright to they
poor, and so become poor yourself ?"
"That is certain," said the young sculptor, with a radiant
smile.
"If it shall ever be possible, Mr. Rory O'Morra, I will put
the sincerity of that reply to the proof," said Rosemary Dashon.
The conversation soon turned upon the course they were to
take in New York. The enterprise of Rosemary, viewed near
at hand, seemed more delicate and even dangerous. It was to
be presumed that she would find her grandmother helpless, if.
not unconscious; Mrs. Varick in possession;. herself reputed
dead. How exercise authority over the servants-strangers,
perhaps? How even obtain admission to the house, or to her
grandmother's room ? The story of Miss Tankerville proved
that Isabel Varick was capable of anything. Rosemary, how-
ever, thought her a coward, and told Rory the reasons. Isabel,
at one time, was addicted to spiritualism, and had circles at
her house; she herself had been, or pretended to be, a medium.
Grandmamma ha l said that Isabel believed Miss Atherton to
have seen the ghost of Rosemary at the Exhibition; and both

(x        s'+Y~r4:! o'       i -  y        .

414

475


A NIGHlT DRIVE.           477

476               ROSEMARY.

Rory and she remembered her shriek the day they passed her
n Greenwood. With all her fair and over-luxuriant beauty,
Mrs. Varick was subject to hysterics. But it is only in Don
Giovanni that the Marble Guest arrives on horseback, knocks
at the front door, and is admitted with bravado terror by the
hardened criminal. It did not appear that they could count
with any certainty on the influence of fright and surprise.
Rose thought the best plan would be to get admission by the
servants' gate ; Rory that the police might be of service.
A little cough of Rory's warned the young lady that conver-
sing in the open air, even on a balmy summer night, in a
trotting-wagon that was going at a regular speed of a mile in
three minutes and thirty seconds, was not the most prudent
thing in the world for a young man who had had pulmonary
hemorrhage the day previous. She imposed silence, and de-
vouring her double anxiety, closed her own lips, while now, at
the expiration of a half-hour from the start, the vehicle entered
the environs of Brooklyn. Their speed was now arrested b
the pavement and the streets; Rory made a straight course for
the studio; the wheels glided easily into the track of the city
railroad, Sorella again went forward like lightning ; they over'
take a car, dash off the track, resume it, -turn off sharp at.
Pacific, and lo! Sorella stops of her own accord at the studied
door.
"I have made five minutes clear on my reckoning, Rose-
mary. Now up stairs quick and do what we agreed upon."
i The young sculptor opened his door with a night-key ;
already before he had done so, the stiff groom came out of the
adjacent stable, and approached his 'master, who whispered a
brief order. Rory and Rosemary entered the studio together.
It was dark as pitch, but Rory found a match instantly, and
lighted a coil of cerino ; then they went upstairs together, Rory
O'Morra leading the way with the light, which cast a flickering
glow over the white casts that lined the walls. Arrived in the
anteroom, he lit the wax-candles that, placed in sconces, three
on either side, adorned the old mirror. They produced a
bright illumination.
"pow, Marble Bride !" he said, "I leave you."

The sculptor descended into his great studio. For some
minutes he paced its brick floor silently, while the coil of
cerino burned on a table. Suddenly he took it up and
approached his own bust of the " Marble Bride." The original
was at Mrs. Dashon's, having been sent there after the Exhi-
bition, in acknowledgment of the gift of Arab.  As the
light of the waxen coil fell on the marble features and
bosom, there was a spectral, almost preternatural effect which
Rory had never before seen, and at which even he started. A
derisive smile played on the marble lips. It would have awed
a person at all superstitious. O'Morra was trying the effect of
holding the light in various positions when the door on the
stair opened and Rosemary appeared.
She came down daintily, holding her skirts with care. In
the gloom of that vast studio, in which the single flame of the
cerino served but to render the darkness visible, that white
and shining vision had something weird and ghost-like in it.
W ithout a word Rory O'Morra preceded her to the street-door,
where a carriage, such as is always kept ready in livery
stables to attend a party, or the opera, was in waiting in lieu
of the trotting-wagon. Miss Dashon took the back seat Mr.
R. O'Morra the front, and the equipage started at a round
pace for the ferry.
"We have lost twenty minutes by this arrangement," ob-
served O'Morra.
" They won't be lost, Rory. And you are protected from
the night-air."
They just missed a bpat. It involved at that hour a delay of
twenty minutes. It was just eleven when the next boat
started.
"It would be mortifying,'' observed O'Morra "if after all
my boasting the governor should be on the ground before us."
"I wouldn't have it happen for anything," said the young
lady.
"Explain to me the disposition of the ,premises," said
O'Morra.
"Nothing more simple. Behind grandpapa's house, between
the house and the stables, is a back-court or paved yard,

_ _
,n
", =  .
^'
,_   -


A NIGHT DRIVE.

478

ROSEMARY.

separated from the street by a high stone wall. Once I am
inside that wall, I engage to get into the house, unless there
have been great changes since I died.'
" Is it simply a question of getting over a stone wall ?"
" The top of the wall is planted with iron spikes, having
sharp points in all directions ; the stable wall the same."
"On the garden side ?"
"All round the garden runs a high iron railing, the top
spikes of which are like spears, and nearly four feet long,
almost impossible to pass. Besides, there is a night watchman
and the regular police always patrolling."
"As what we propose is flat burglary, we must take those
gentry into account. What is next to the garden?-if I remem-
ber, a church."
"Could we get into the church the rest would be simple
enough, for the vestry has a door that opens directly into our
garden. Often on Saturdays when the church was swept and
aired for the Sunday, we girls used to run in and out, and play
hide-and-go-seek in the vestry."
"Who is the sexton-do you know ?"
"My childish terror ! Mr. Simon Cameron, the undertaker."
"Then our path is plain. Where is Mr. Cameron's shop ?"
"No. ---  Broadway. Was it not printed in gold letters on
a scutcheon upon the front of the church V" .
"We'll take it on our way. The undertakers are open day
and night, all days in the week."
"They are the poursuivants of my royal friend, King Death.
Do you remember the last time we crossed the ferry together,
Rory '?"
"Your head was in my lap, Rose."_
"Not my head, Rory, but that which held my head. I
looked up in your face, my brother, and verily thought it
was an angel.-How strangely you breathe, Rory ?"
"The closeness of this carriage oppresses me. Do you
object to letting down another window V'
"My dear Rory, there is too much air already I"
" I can hardly breathe."
"Indeed !" said Rose, gravely.

They stopped at the undertaker's. Mr. Simon Cameron
kept the key of the church at his house, a mi'e distant.
O'Morra took the street and number.-" Drive there.''-Again
the carriage dashed off. Rosemary had noticed that although
in her hearing;Rory had said nothing on the subject to the
driver, the horses were almost on a gallop the whole way.
They reached Mr. Simon Cameron's. The night-bell caused a
thin, night-capped face to protrude from the second story
window.
" Mr. Cameron, without stopping to dress yourself, bring
down the key of Dr. B-'s church."
"The key of the church is in the vestry."
"The key of the vestry, then."
"Who wants it ?"
"Rosemary Dashon," said the girl, standing half outside the
carriage, with one satin-clad foot on the step.
The old man uttered an exclamation, and drew in his head.
He did not come down without dressing, however. Yet in
about two minutes he appeared, candle in hand, in a thick
gown and slippers and a black velvet cap on his narrow front.
"Is it a wedding in the church at this time of night ?P_
"It is an extra occasion, I know, Mr. Cameron, and the
sexton s fee for opening the church will be accordingly," said
0 Morra, extending a $100 bank-note.
"I will dress myself and go along with you---."
"We can t wait, Mr. Cameron-it is a matter of life and
death: minutes are hours. Give us the key at once. Miss
Dashon, whom you know, will be responsible for it."
"Miss Dashon ! Rosemary Dashon ! She has been dead
and buried these six months. Take back your money, sir. I
don't know who you are."
"Mr. Cameron !" said Rose. "Is it possible you don't know
who lam l"
The old man nearly dropped the candle.
"Gracious Providence !" he exclaimed, in a trembling voice.
He came down the steps with his candle and held it up before
the bride-like figure. "Good Lord ! oh ! the ways of Provi-

479


A NIGHT DRIVE.

481

deuce ! This is Rosey Dashon! In the same dress she was
laid out in ! Mercy be praised! Is it a miracle '!
"The key of the vestry, Mr. Cameron. I want to get through
into grandpapa's garden."
"You shall have it, Miss Rose. Do you know that your
grandmother is. dying'? The gardener told me to-night, after
evening service, that was the talk of the servants."
"The key," said O'Morra, impatiently.
The key was brought ; Mr. Cameron had to explain its use ;
what door, &amp;c.; and how after they got in, they were to lock
up on the inside, and leave the door into Mr. Dashon's garden
open. It would be perfectly safe, and the servants would let
him through in the morning.
"No, keep the money, Mr. Cameron, and remember that we
count on your silence-you understand'?
"Mum's the word," said the undertaker. "Oh, my ! what a
surprise this will be to some people ! Little Rose.--"
The horses were off on a gallop again. Rosemary, in her
excitement, nearly embraced her companion. O'Morra checked
her transport.
"I had never a doubt, Rose, that so much as this would be
successfully accomplished. It is what remains to be done that
gives me anxiety. An ignominious failure, and worse, a fatal
one, is still possible."
The church clock (belated somewhat) was striking twelve as
two figures, male and female, passed out of the vestry door into
a fragrant and shrubberied garden. They enter a trellised
grapery so thick with vine-leaves that the moonbeams barely
sift through. From the other extremity a dog, a huge St.
Bernard, rushes towards them with heavy bounds and a fierce
growl. The girl sprang forward a step and called---" Thunder !
Thunder !"-The bark ceased: the animal advanced cautiously
up the arcade. She called again : "Come here, sir ! Lie down,
sir !"  The dog sprang towards her frantically-" Keep off,
sir ! Put your dirty paws on my dress, if you dare.' -She
caught his collar, and shaking her little fist at his enormous
shaggy head,-" You rascal, if you don't keep quiet, I'll kill you
-do you understand'!"

Thunder appeared to understand-that perfectly. He smelled
a little aboutO'Morra, and walked along quietly beside them.
As they went, a goat uttered from the stable-yard her piteous
maternal bleat.
' Hear that!' whispered the girl.
The south front of the great house was before them, bathed
in the moonlight. They crossed an open space quickly and
arrived under an arch, through which the moonlight poured
into a paved court. They descend into the court. In one corner
a winding stair of stone. The girl mounts it, and presently a
pears on the terraced roof of the stables, set with great ases
of cactus. The young man is below, keeping in the shadow
and watching her. That radiant figure, shining like silver in
the full moonlight, advances upon the lofty wall. She lifts her
glistening skirt and plants her shining foot on the narrow cope.
stone ; her veil flows and flutters in the soft night-breeze. The
jewels on her breast and arm yield a sombre gleam. There
was a moment of unsteadiness, when, being precisely over the
centre of the moonlit arch, she looked down at Rory.
In another minute she has crossed safely.
Rosemary touched the sash of the conservatory-it flew open.
It is a single high step, a light spring, and the silver-shining
form has entered the house.                      -
21

x

4  i
4
e
f

480

ROSEMARY.


THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

CHAPTER XII.
THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.
GRANDMAMMA had tried to wean Mr. Dashon from that
melancholy Greenwood drive. Dr. Mannikin and Dr. Galenson
(who had been called in consultation) agreed to recommend it.
The first experiment was attended with results so unfavorable,
not to say alarming, that the physicians changed their opinion,
and decided that Mr. Dashon should not be crossed in any-
thing. In truth, he adhered to life by his love for the memory
of that most exquisite grandchild, sole heiress of his blood,
and object of so much tender pride,
On the Sunday, July 29th, the full of the moon, after their
early dinner, the Dashons went to Greenwood as usual, and the
instant they entered the vault, a singular sickness and faint-
ness seized the whole party. John, the strong Irish footman,
came out white as a sheet, trembling on his brawny pins, and
hardly able to sustain Mr. Dashon. Augusta Varickstaggered
to the carriage and fainted entirely away on the steps. Grand-
mamma held out bravely, using her salts. Mr. Dashon was
least affected. Johnson, the coachman, who had not entered
the vault, of course escaped. He assisted John in lifting Mr.
Dashon and Miss Varick into the carriage. Mrs. Dashon got
in unaided, and ordered ,Johnson to drive immediately to the
house in lew York, taking Dr. Mannikin' on the way. John-
son obeyed orders exactly. Dr. Mannikin was not at home ; a
message was left on the slate. By the time they reached the
Avenue, John, who sat on the box with. Johnson, drinking in
the fresh air, had nearly recovered ; but the party inside the
carriage h'ad grown worse and worse. Grandmamma was
taken out nearly insensible, Augusta more dead than alive,
grandpapa in-a profound comatose slumber.
Such was the story which footman John and Johnson the

coachman related  to Dr. Edward Varick. Mrs. Varick
(chance had brought har up from Rockawayj was sent for
of course to look after her daughter, and Mrs. Varick sent
immediately for her uncle. Mrs. V. declared that she always
knew no good would come of those ridiculous visits to that
hateful vault; she wondered aunt Dashon would humor uncle
in such a thing: she would not; and as for Augusta, if she got
better of this, aunt might say and do what she liked, the child
should never go in that carriage to Greenwood again. She
would have put a stop to it long ago, had not Augusta
herself continually protested that she was perfectly willing.
Mrs. Varick's maternal anxiety would scarcely allow uncle
doctor to see his sister first. Dr. Varick prescribed active
counter-irritation, sinapisms to the feet, slapping of the hands,
an emetic, and the administration internally of diffusible sti-
mulants. A faint smile stole over the squirrel mouth of his
niece at these orders, which she promised should be faithfully
complied with. Brandy and ammonia were immediately put
in requisition, and Louise was directed to prepare mustard
poultices for the feet and ancles of madame. Mrs. Varick did
not smile when uncle doctor ordered the same measures for
Augusta, whose state he frankly pronounced more alarming
than sister Dashon's. He added to her list of remedies smart
flagellation. Poor old uncle Dashon was much less affected.
Footman John had deposited the old gentleman in his invalid
chair near an open window, and although he slumbered pro-
foundly, his breathing was already free. Mrs. Varick urged
the propriety of doing nothing for uncle till Dr. Mannikin
arrived. To this, considering the very great delicacy of bro-.
ther Dshon's situation, uncle:doctor assented, and took leave,
promising to drop in again in the evening. All this between
five and six in the afternoon.
Once these events would have caused much confusion in the
great house; if not confusion, excitement. Truly now there
was no one to be excited. The cook and men-servants were
at the hired villa; old Louise and a couple of chambermaids
formed, with the gardener, the entire establishment. Yet even
these with footman John and coachman Johnson were quite a

4

:me                                        _4

d

;F 1~

483


484

ROSEMARY.

household. Footman John, generously forgetting his own
troubles, was only anxious to be of use to master or madam or
Miss Augusta; and Mrs. Varick set him to watch and wait on
uncle Dashon. Coachman Johnson put up his horses, locked
the carriage-house and stables, and assumed the functions of
porter, seating himself in the great hall, and at earliest dusk
taking care to light the gas in the halls and on the stair-case
from basement to attic. When there is sickness in the house,
and there are invalids on the first floor and one (Miss Augusta)
on the third, one needs light in the passages. We scarcely
need to be reminded that the first floor of Mr. Dashon's house
contained the living rooms of the family, with Mr. and Mrs.
Dashon'-s andltosemary's bedrooms, that the second floor
(called abroadthe first) was the drawing-room suite, and that
the bedroomswere on the third. Miss Augusta was not per-
mitted to occupy cousin Rosemary's room, next to grand-.
mamma's. That was always a sore spot. Of course the state-
bedchamber in the drawing-room suite, destined for Presidents,
Bishops, Princes and the daughter of the house on her bridal
(if need were), was not for Miss Varick: so Augusta had to
mount au troisieme, or, to spe k more exactly when we speak
French, au second. When the coach arrived with the sick
folk, before. Madam Isabel had been sent for, after Mr. and
Mrs. Dashon had been got safely into their respectiveapart-
ments on the ground floor, strong-limbed and willing John
carried Miss Augusta in!his arms up to her own room, where
one of the maids took the young lady in charge.
Thus not a person was unemployed; .no two were together ;
the other maid, being something of a cook, was stationed in
the kitchen by General Isabel; there was a deal to do there first
and last, including the evening meal for all; and the bells were
answered and trays carried by obliging Mr. Johnson. In his
black livery, small-clothes and stockings (both well filled out),
his bald pate, freckled face and light-brown whiskers, he was
everywhere at once. But old Andrew Horton, the Scotch gar-
dener,-he did nothing but sit on his bench in the kitchen and
watch events. When Mrs. Varick came down stairs to prepare
with her own hands the poultice for her daughter's delicate

S

THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

485

It

feet, wherein she mixed a great deal of flour and very little
mustard (it wouldn't have reddened the skin of a baby), she
scowled at Andrew severely. Andrew in fact could judge that
there was some difference between that mild compost and the
fiery sinapisni sent up a little before to torture poor old grand..
mamma. As for the emetic and the whipping, Miss Augusta,
through her mother's mistaken tenderness, escaped them al-
together.
Matters were getting quiet again, when the front door bell
sounded. That bell-it was a gong of sonorous and musical
reverberation-made Madam Isabel nervous. Johnson had
orders not to admit any one without ascertaining from a narrow
side-light that formed a very ornamental feature in' the exte-
rior of the portal, who it was, and if a stranger; his name and
business. Presently, Mr. Johnson informed Mrs. Varick that
two gentlemen desired to see her.
"Two gentlemen!" said the lady, sharply. "You admitted
them ? Who are they ?"
At a significant look from Johnson, madam followed him
into the hall.
"It's the two young doctors as I 'ave spoke hof to your lady-
ship. They 'ave called at the hother 'ouse, and was naturally
directed over 'ere."
"Where are they ? In the library-is there any light there '
I see you have lit the gas already, Johnson."
"It's so huncommon dark in this 'all, ma'am."
Mrs. Varick's other anxieties had driven a conditional ap-
pointment out of her head; it was to have been on a Sunday
afternoon, she remembered. She glanced at her elegant wrap-
per in the mirror at the foot of the hall, and swept into the
library. She found two very respectable young men, looking
like doctors both, and one, by his massive brow, thick black
brows, ardent-black eye, and quick shrewd glance, showing a
type that interested Madam Isabel's physique. This gentle-
man was full-fleshed and vigorous in all his proportions. His
companion was slim, narrow-headed, sallow, ugly, yet withal
had the air of a Southern gentleman. Madam Isabei -read
them both at a glance ; she was too experienced a woman of the


THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

world to fail in that. She begged them to be seated-they
were gazing with admiration at the beautiful book-cases and
other appropriate furnishings of the room.
"We have the honor of seeing Mrs. Varick '" said the stout
young man, in a foreign accent.
"That is my name," said Mrs. Isabel, with a smile.
" My name is O'Callaghan-Dr. O'Callaghan at your service-.
and this is my friend Dr. Fitzfulke, attached, like myself, to
the service of the City Hospital. We understood, madam, that
you wished to see us."
"It is on a subject deeply painful to me, gentlemen. Mr. John-
son will have informed you that I have discovered the violation
of the tomb of a young relative of mine. I shall not character-
ize his conduct or its motive : the temptation doubtless was
strong--"_
"Very-for a thief !" said O'Callaghan, with a twinkle under
his dark brows.
Mr. Johnson, who was listening at the keyhole, clenched his
fist at the speaker.
*       "In brief, sirs !" said Madam Isabel, abruptly, "he sold
you my poor cousin's body ?"
"But not the clothes or jewels, ma'am-the body only," said
Dr. Fitzfulke.
"It is not our business on this occasion, Doctor, to know
that there were either clothes or jewels-we ignore such'things
in the case," said O'Callaghan, reprovingly.
"Neither do I wish to inquire what became of either," said
Mrs. Varick. "I am aware, indeed, that they were disposed
of by the man Johnson and his confederate-it was the price
of their villainy.. But-gentlemen-the body of my unfortu-
nate cousin?'"-In a pathetic accent.
The young physicians exchanged glances.
"You mean to ask, madam, what was done with its--"
" Yes,-after-after-  "
"After dissection, you would say, madam ?"
"That's it !" said Mrs. Varick, covering her face with an ex-
pression of horror.
"Well, ma'am," said Fitzfulke, to whom O'Callaghan nodded,

" we preserved the heart in spirits, and the skeleton, after
being treated properly,.was taken for artistic purposes by one
of the class."
Mrs. Varick drew a long breath, as if greatly relieved. She
had gazed at the speaker intently and felt convinced that he
was describing facts just as they occurred.
"Could the heart and-skeleton-be recovered ?" she asked.
"By the family, madam ?" asked O'Callaghan. "With secu-
rity that no prosecution would follow-certainly, I suppose so."
"But they could not be identified, perhaps."
" Undoubtedly they could," said O'Callaghan.
"Would you and your friend be willing to swear to their
identity in a court of justice ?" asked Mrs. Varick, rather
quickly and over-eagerly.
" With all the pleasure in life," said O'Callaghan, his thick
brows drawing down nore closely than ever over the sparkling
orbs beneath, "Wouldn't you, Fitz ?"
"I haven't set eyes on the remains since they left our dis-
secting table," said Fitzfulke, with admirable coolness, " but
I am confident I could take my oath of the identity. God
Almighty doesn't turn out such a piece of workmanship as
your cousin, every day in the year, madam."
" Ah! you know, of course-(that dainty modesty !)"-said.
Madam Isabel :-the last words as if involuntarily, and under-
breathed, but in a tone so exulting, with so cruel a triumph,
that the young men again exchanged glances, and rose.
"I believe that this is all you wanted of us, madam," said
o Callaghan, folding his great muscular arms on his herculean
chest, and regarding the lady with his shrewd and glowing
eyes.
"I thank you very much, both of you, gentlemen, for the
information. I would ask you to stay longer, but the house is
full of sick people, my own daughter in the number---"
So the young men, looking at her again, and then at each
other, departed.
Isabel Varick returned to her aunt's bedside, joyful.and full
of confidence.-" These men," said she, "can have no motive
to deceive, they are willing to swear to what they say, they can

486

0

ROSEMARY.

4

487


488

ROSEMARY.

produce and identify parts of her body"-a slight fhudder
passed over the woman's frame.-" Psha ! I had nothing to' do
with her death-what she took was not deadly-it was not I
who pronounced her dead-I did not sell'her to the doctors,
or plunge the knife in her bosom-a--h !"-another shudder.
-" I always doubted Ezekiel's good faith, but I was too quick
for him that time. Johnson's tale is doubtless true, that he
was there waiting on the same night, and being sh t out by acci-
dent was furious to get in again, but was obl ged to.retire
baffled and enraged! That does me good to think, now I know
that all succeeded, not as I wished, but as my interest, my just.
rights, wished."
That gong once more! With its sonorous long-drawn vi-
bration ! Who is at the front-door now ? It is Dr. Ezekiel
Mannikin just returned from a visit to Mrs. Geo. Varick herself
at Rockaway, where he found her not. Dr. Mannikin, the
family physician, is admitted, of course, without parley.
" Doctor," says Mrs. Varick, gravely, meeting him in the
hall, "you must go in at once and see uncle. Uncle doctor
has been here and has prescribed for the others, but I would
not allow anything to be done for uncle Dashon till you ar-
rived."
"Why, what is the matter ?" said Mannikin, turning pale.
" Come into uncle's room and I will tell you."
When Ezekiel had heard the story, confirmed at everypoint
by footman John, in attendance on his master, having felt Mr.
Dashon's pulse and timed his respiration, he drew forth a, little
vial of red tincture, and let fall a single drop on a lozenge of
pure sugar and mucilage, which was easily introduced into the
mouth of the still slumbering patient without disturbing him.
Then Mannikin asked what Dr. Varick had prescribed for his
sister and niece.
" Had one of those things-much more all-been attempted
with your uncle, madam, he would not have lived through ,the
night," said Ezekiel.
"Then you don't approve of uncle Edward's treatment."
"If persevered in long enough it will kill them both."
Dr. Mannikin gave John, who complained bitterly of head-

4

I

THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

489

ache and weakness, a dose from the same red vial-a single
drop in a wine glass-full of water, and bade him take care
that his master's windows were open all night. He went up to
Augusta's room-same dose, same orders : perfect quiet for the
patient, no teasing, and plenty of fresh air. Then he proposed
to see grandmamma, but Mrs. Varick objected.
" Doctor, I have more confidence in you than I have in uncle
Edward, and I take the responsibility of changing Augusta's
treatment on your advice, because it is my own child. It is
quite different with aunt. It is her own brother, and should
anything unfortunate occur-I hope there will not-but should
there-andc you had changed the entire treatment in Dr.
Varick's absence-you know the blame would be laid to me as
well as to you, and some wouldn't hesitate to say we had con-
spired together to kill her."
"You are a wonderful woman, Isabel!" was Mannikin's
sole reply.
"I have - some foresight. If aunt is going to die, which I
fear very much, I want the blame to lie on uncle Edward, who
is one of the family and directly interested in her living,-not
on you."
" Let me treat her as I have the rest, and I guarantee her
life," replied Mannikin, in a low, emphatic tone.
"That's very well for you to say-I have not the same con-
fidence in your remedies in her case," replied Mrs. Varick.
"You will allow me to see her ?"
"Decidedly not-she is under uncle's care-it would be very
indelicate !"
" Good evening !" said the doctor.
And Mr. Johnson opened the front door for Dr. Ezekiel's exit.
Grandmamma grew rapidly worse, so much worse that gar-
dener Andrew was despatched to hasten the second visit of Dr.
Varick. Dr. V. came. He was greatly astonished that Dr.
Mannikin had been there and had changed all his prescriptions
for Augusta. He was even more vexed that having changed
the treatment in one case, he had not been allowed to do it in
the other. Then the whole responsibility would have rested
where it ought. However, he saw his sister, and found her


490

ROSEMARY.

greatly worse. Another physician (not Mannikin) was sent for
in consultation. Grave shakes of the head ! grave putting of
two old heads together ! and both of them had more white hair
outside than brains within. Some modification of treatment
agreed on. More fresh air ordered--Mrs. Dashon's windows to
be opened, sinapisms and revulsives remitted for the present,
stimulants directed to sustain the patient's evidently failing
strength. Consulting physician takes leave, with a very unfa-
vorable opinion of the result, plainly intimating to the crest-
fallen Varick that he has been sent for too late! Dr. Edward
remains about half an hour, during which no change occurs ;
then, as it is getting late, past ten o'clock, takes his hat and
cane, and promises to call early in the morning. The news
percolates the house that it will go hard with old Mrs. Dashon,
and the servants already see in Mrs. Varick their future
mistress.
Then Isabel Varick's spirits suddenly flagged; she helped
herself out of her medicine chest, and out of the brandy de-
canter, and her spirits rose again. Old Louise watched her.
If Mrs. Isabel approached the table where Mrs. Dashon's re-
medies stood, the bonne's eyes were upon her; if she drew
near her bed, the bonne drew near also. There was a strange
and silent conflict between those two women. At last Madam
Isabel took a vial from her little private chest, and dropped
from it into the glass from which her aunt received a spoonful
every half hour. Louise rose quietly, took the glass from her
hand and flung it out of the window.
"What do you mean, woman V'
"I not trust you, madame. You kill my Rose-now you
shall kill her poor grand'nere, to get the money. You will
kill me first-comprenez vous" 
Mrs. Varick sat down and glared at her silently, devoured
with rage.
Another source of anxiety. The time was passing swiftly as
ever, while mortal purposes lag behind. It was near eleven; she
had no reason to expect unwelcome visitors, but many fears;
there were some who might wish to enter in her despite. Uncle
Dashon's windows looking on the street, were open; there was

THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

491

the depth of the paved area to prevent an active man spring-
ing up, but if armed with a ladder, if the police assisted,that
was nothing. So Mrs. Varick made Jchn pull down the patent
burglar-proof iron shutters and close the windows; and then,
to get him out of the way, sent him to bed. With the doors
open straight through, the women could well enough look
after Mr. Dashon in the night; if a man were needed, Mr.
Johnson was at hand. So Madam had the whole house firmly
closed, except on the garden side, where aunt's bedroom win-
dows were still open to the air.
Crafty Isabel! she was too much at last for the simple bonne.
Shem was patient, and watched her opportunity. The neigh-
boring church clock struck heavily twelve. Isabel Varick
hated church clocks at night ; particularly, striking twelve !
She rose and went to the window; the fierce growl of a dog ;-
"What dog is that ?"-Mrs. Varick hated dogs.
"The St. Bernard pup sent by M. le general to my Rose,"
said the bonne.
"I'll have him killed to-morrow," said Madam Isabel.
"list--he ! what is that 1" said the old bonne in an awful
whisper, rushing to the other window, and stretching herself
half out of it.
Quick as lightning Isabel Varick turned and poured some
drops into the fresh tumbler that Louise had been watching so
long.
A goat uttered its tremulous gutteral cry.
"What is that ?" said Mrs. Varick, in the same careless
tone.
"That is the goat that nursed my Rose," said the bonne,
suddenly turning, and approaching, she took up the glass apd
smelled it.-" The poor old creature cam no m  i nibble a
.spike of grass
"She shall be killed too to-morrow," s  Madam; we can't
have the toothless pets of dead people "about, to disturfthe
rest of the living."
"You will kill the foster-mother of my little Rose-that
suckled the only daughter of this grande famille !!" cried the
bonne. " Ohv, monstre !"

8t


1

A dizziness seized old Louise, her eyes closed involuntarily.
Mrs. Varick took the glass and averting her own face as much
as possible, administered two or three spoonfuls successively to
her aunt, then set down the tumbler, and quitted the room.
Johnson (easy conscience he had doubtless!) was snoring in
the porter's arm-chair. Mrs Varick glanced at him with con-
tempt.-" He can be of use yet," thought she. Then up stairs
she bounded to her daughter's room. On the landing of the
first floor, where all the doors of the drawing-room suite looked
upon the glittering marble hall, it struck her disagreeably, as
it sometimes does superstitious people, that there should be so
many silent and vacant rooms upon that hall, which she must
constantly pass. In every door was a key of shining metal.
Were they all locked ? Isabel went round trying them. Every
one locked fast. Hence any one who might be in the suite
was there as in a prison, unless perchance the dooi on the ser-
vants' stair were open. This suspicion caused her to unlock
the state-bedroom, and lighting one of the wax candles always
there for show, she examined the back passage. Here there
was neither egress nor ingress ; the doors were locked and the
keys away. On the inside they were bolted. Recognizing the
wisdom of this arrangement, Madam   Isabel returned. She
could not forbear a glance at the splendid quiet of that chamber.
Soon all this would be hers. Aunt Dashon was dying, perhaps
dead; uncle could not long survive : the proofs of Rosemary's
decease (could any one doubt it) were in her reach. She looked
around and felt herself mistress of this splendor and of all the
power and wealth it represented.
She did not like the design of the sculptured mantel-the
Genii of Marriage and Death supporting the classic entabla-
ture, the  _tre of which bore so mysteriously the word" ROsE-
MARY," while festoons of the plant of gr ay renown depended
betwixt, flowing spray and clustered flower. That wall of the
rooe was odious to her : for in the recess at either side hung
a portrait-here Rosemary's father, there her mother, hiding
the satin-draped walls. Mrs. George Varick liked better the
window side, where draperies of white satin fringed with bul-
lion, chastely enveloped the huge central mirror, with its

492

ROSEMARY.

493

THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

princely dressing-table and sumptuous chairs, placed for a
regal toilet. But here a new feature caught her eye-on the
table, on a low pedestal of ormolu, and reflected in the mirror,
stood the bust of the "Marble Bride." Isabel had heard of,
she had never seen it. Nerving herself with a coward's cour-
age, she lifted her candle to view it better-that only relic of'
her victim's once famed loveliness. The beauty, the seren-
ity, the immovable dignity of that marble Rosemary were a
cutting reproach. She hated the mouth above all-it was so
perfect, so pure and so passionless ! Her hatred fairly boiled
over.-" I will crush you to powder yet !" she murmured
between her squirrel teeth. She had moved the light-a deri-
sive smile suddenly played on the- marble lips. She started
back, then seeing that with the change of the shadows the
smile disappeared, her fool's courage returned, and she laughed.
A faint rustle of garments behind her !
"A       a      a      h ! ! !"
It was an inarticulate cry of wordless terror.
In the middle of the chamber, not two yards distant, between
the mantel and the bed, stood Rosemary Dashon in her bridal
array. Her glittering robes swept the carpet; her form, jew-
elled, veiled, softly budding, was defined against the gloom ;
her eyes sparkled with loving anger. She was only half turned
towards Isabel. The guilty woman retreated slowly, step by
step, to place the bed between her and the beautiful yet terri-
ble apparition; slowly, step by step, still regarding her, the
vision gli4 d to the door, opened it, passed out, and what is
a very unusual proceeding on the part of a ghost, shut the door
after her and locked it. From the inside a scream, and shouts
of hysterical laughter !
From below, wailing cries !
Down the great staircase flies Rosemary. She encounters
Mr. Johnson crying out-" Madam ! madam ! your aunt is
dying !"-At sight of her the man started lack and crouched
like a cat in a corner of the landing-place  She passed him
without notice and flew to grandmamma's room. Louise was
on her knees, sobbing and praying : that shining presence
caused her to cease both, and cry, in a tone of awe, "0 ciel !"


I

ROSEMARY.

494

The first thing Rose did was to administer Dr. Mannikin's
antidote ; the next, to run to the open window and call: "Rory
Rory !"-the next, to order Louise to open the dining-room
windows. To describe the joy of the poor boanne, the frantic
things she did, the unutterable transport with which she em-
braced the hands, the knees, the feet of her fosterling, is beyond
the power of the pen. Mr. Rory O'Morra and Thunder were
admitted by the dining-room window, the balcony whereof had,
we remember, a flight of steps to the garden. They were just
in time to admit Mr. Rory's father by the front door. Thunder
was not useless in this crisis, for Mr. Johnson, recovered from
his fright, having found Madam Isabel, was disposed to show
fight in a very singular manner, set himself blusteringly against
the door, drew a revolver, and declared that he would defend
the 'ouse with his 'eart's blood.
Rory O'Morra, usually so brave, sank back into one of the
hall chairs without a word, or an effort to overawe or over-
power the bully. There was no one else in the hall ; but Ma-
dam Isabel looked over the balustrade from above, and said to
Johnson-" Shoot him-he is a burglar !"-and Johnson stepped
forward, levelling his weapon at the young man's breast : in a
moment it was all over with Rory O'Morra, when the huge St.
Bernard sprang at the uplifted arm, throwing the rascal down
with the force of the blow and his enormous weight, and held
him betwixt his teeth. Then Rory rose, dragged himself to
the street door, and drew the massy bolts. Mr. O'Morra had a
couple of officers with him, who took Mr. Johnson into custody.
" As for you, madam," said he, addressing Mrs. Varick,
"one of these gentlemen will escort you to your own house
over the way, unless you prefer the alternative of the station-
house."
"My daughter is dangerously ill upstairs. Will you force
a mother from her child's sick-bed ?" demanded Isabel, with
effrontery.
"Your daughter will be taken good care of. This lady"--
pointing to Mrs. Grace-" will see to it. She won't poison her,
you may rely on it, madam. So, go at once, I say '--stamping

THE POISONER AND THE GHOST.

495

his foot :-" do you understand that I am master here, and
that I can send you to the Tombs, if I like ?"
"Your time has come at last, Cahal O'Morra," said Isabel;-
'but as for that traitor"-with a glance of supreme contempt
at Dr. Mannikin, who had also arrived with the senior O'Morra-
" I know him now perfectly-and he knows me !"
Galenson was also on hand. Mr. O'Morra had so combined
his movements that both these gentlemen were sent for without
causing him a moment's loss of time. Both went straight into
Mrs. Dashon's room, and instantly returned.
"How is Madam ?" asked Mr. O'Morra.
"Mrs. Dashon is all right," said Mannikin, with his spectral
smile. "Miss Rose has learned a trick of our science."
"The first thing, I apprehend, is to look after your son," said
Galenson, significantly.
Rory had dropped into his chair again, and his head was
hanging down. He could not raise it. His breathing showed
distress.
Galenson felt his pulse, and listened at the chest.
"Congestion of the lungs and raging fever ! He must be got
to bed instanter. You say he drove from Firhead Beach to-
night ? Why, he ought not to have the strength of a drowned
kitten !"
"Is Rory down ?" said Rose, coming out of her grandmother's
room. "I surely expected that ! Where shall he be taken ?
\ The state bedchamber is the nearest. It was always meant to
lodge a prince-bear Mr. Rory thither."
The daughter of the house found linen in the closets, and
with her own hands prepared the bed, Mrs. Grace assisting;
while in the adjacent dressing room, Mrs. Grace's husband
aided Cahal- O'Morra to disrobe his nearly unconscious and
wholly helpless Son.

4

f
.'
"             ,
." .  r        .,
.       -                   ,..  ;r


CHAPTER XIII.
FRESH ORANGE-BLOSSOMS.

CERTAINLY MadamIsabel had combined her plans admira-
bly. In the first place what more natural than that a whole
party should be taken sick on entering a mouldy vault ? Next,
was not her own daughter among the chief sufferers, and an
uncle whose life it was her direct interest to preserve ? It was
well contrived to send the physician who could have instantly
relieved them all, a message which took him in haste to Rocka-
way, so that at the moment he was wanted, he was twenty
miles distant. What more natural or suitable under those cir-
cumstances than to call in the brother of the principal patients,
himself deeply interested in preserving his sister's life ? To
refuse, on the arrival of the other doctor, to change the treat-
ment in the case of the aunt, and to change it in regard to the
daughter, what more natural, or less liable to cavil, or in fine,
more shrewdly calculated ? If under the one treatment the
daughter recovers, and under the other the aunt dies, the dif-
ference of systems accounts for that ; Dr. Mannikin s syste
was right ; Dr. Varick's was wrong : one doctor saved ha.
patient; the other killed his ; certainly Mrs.  'ck, who actec.
on the best of her judgment, could not be res. ible for such
a result.
Once this well-considered scheme nearly failed through the
vigilance of the old bonne ; then, it was on the very point of
success : had Miss Rose been a minute later (said Mannikin)
Mrs. Dashon was past his skill. He had great power, with his
secret poisons and his mysterious antjdotes, but he could not
raise the dead. As for Rose, she could only claim the.credit
of courage, promptitude and presence of mind ; thereal hero
of the occasion, she observed, was Rory O'Morra, who had ex-
posed his life to bring her to the spot in time and had had the

I

FRESH ORANGE-BLOSSOMS.

generosity to conceal both his dangers and his sufferings, till
nature could resist no longer. Galenson, whom Rory had con-
sulted at least a month previously, and who had warned him of
the fatal result of his imprudent rigors, shook his head over
the case. Unless the young man should have another sponta-
neous hemorrhage, this relapse would go hard with him. It
was the third time that Rory had been seized with pulmonary
congestion in less than a month : in the former attacks the
vital depression had been slight ; in the present one it was of
the utmost gravity.
The sufferers by Mrs. Varick's well planned attempt were all
doing well. Dr. Mannikin reported that Miss Augusta would es-
cape with a simple headache : Mrs. Dashon would only suffer in-
convenience from her brother's heroic remedies. Mr. Dashon hav-
ing been for some time under the habitual influence of the same
drug, either taken in a liquid form or inhaled, experienced from
this overdose an effect truly wonderful. In the first confusion
consequent on the discovery of young O'Morra's dangerous
condition, Mr. Dashon was overlooked. When Rosemary, hav-
ing done what a hospitable maiden could, quitted the room pre-
pared for her friend, stealing down stairs and listening as she
went, she caught a familiar sound. She quickened her steps.
Opposite grandmamma's door, that of grandpapa's room also
atood open ; within, a feeble glimmer of light. She stole to
te door, listened, glided in, cautiously raised the gas a little
Id approached the bed.
b The grand ' '" face, the white hair streaming back, the
t arge-lidded cgg eyes of the old man ! How long since she
had been so near him! He breathed heavily-the room was
close. There needed open windows and a draught on that hot
summer night. She could not raise the heavy shutters, but
she threw open the sash of the conservatory and raised the
ventilator of athe apartment. The air grew fresh and sfveet ;
the old man breathed more easily. She wondered that he had
been left unwatched, untended. She drew a chair and sat
down beside the bed. Was not Louise watching grandmamma,
who, besides, already had fallen into the deep sweet slumber
of healthy old age 1 After a while it occurred to her that the

497

_
x
-t

i


FRESH ORANGE-BLOSSOMS.         499

light in the hall was sufficient, and that it would be better to
turn down the gas. As she resumed her seat, her garments
rustled, and grandpapa awoke. The light from the hall en-
tered obliquely, and so it happened that Rosemary sat pre-
cisely where it fell upon her face and figure. The old man
gazed at her awhile in silence and evidently in profound aston-
ishment.
"Rose ?" he said at last, in a deep and awful whisper.
She was not prepared for his speaking. She knew that he
had not spoken for months. She drew near and took his hand,
saying: " Grandpapa !"
"Has a spirit such soft hands ?" said grandpapa, tremulously.
"It is not a spirit-it is your Rosemary herself," said the
girl, in a soothing voice ; and bending down kissed him.
That 'sweet warm breath of youth, that velvet touch, he
could not be deceived in those.
"Stand back-stand in the light !" said grandpapa, rising on
one elbow with astonishing vigor.
She drew back and stood with bending modesty, bowing her
head in the light.
"You were to have been married ?" he said, glancing at her
dress. "Have you just risen from the grave? Did you lie six
months in that gloomy vault? Once I heard your voice there.
Is this too a strong hallucination ?"
The old man sank back on his pillow and gazedati
wildly :-.'Phantom! Begone !"-.-In a terrible voice.t
"It is I, your very Rosemary," said the girl, "alive and
the body. For months I have hovered arQu 1 you in your
daily drives. It was my voice you heard in the vault-dear
grandpapa !"
"There it is again !"
"Feel my hands, my dress, my ornaments-does a ghost
wear lace and pearls, grandpapa ?"-Extending her bracelet.
" Those are the thoughts of my Rose," said grandpapa, in a
quiet tone, "and certainly I am awake. I have dreamed for
months then. I thought you were dead and buried, Rosemary."
Just thou Dr. Mannikin, calling to mind his great patient,
came down and entered the room. Rose offered him her chair,

7I

and described briefly what had occurred. Mr. Dashon drank
in every word. He knew Mannikin.
"Mr. Dashon is wonderfully better-a complete revulsion
has been effected," said the physician, but without any elation
of manner. "It would be well for him to seize the opportunity
of making his will."
"Why ?" said Mr. Dashon, bluntly.
"Oh, no danger at all, my dear sir-quite the contrary,. I
hope"-with a significant glance at Rose: "but to provide
against all contingencies. Luckily, Mr. O'Morra is upstairs."
"What O'Morra is that ?" said Mr. Dashon, "and why is
he here ?"
"There has been trouble in the house to-night," said Man-
nikin, "which is now happily over. Every one is doing well
but the son of Mr. O'Morra ?"
"How is Mr. Roy ?" half whispered Rose.
" In a bad way, fear," said Mannikin.
"Bleeding again !" cried Rose, rising and turning very pale,
" I wish he were. It is his only chance of life."
"You don't mean that ?"
"The symptoms are very unfavorable, Miss Dashon."
"Is the danger immediate ?" Rose asked faintly.
"A few hours will decide it. Unless a natural crisis super-
vene, he cannot hold out much longer, and any moment may
terminate the struggle," said the physician, in an icy tone.
"And he was doing so well a few hours since !" said Rose,
bursting into tears. "I have killed him. He has deliberately
sacrificed his own life to save grandmamma's !"
"Of whom are you speaking, Rose ?" said her grandfather,
with agitation. "Who is this young O'Morra ?"
"A gentleman, grandpapa, whose name, if he is really
going to die, I desire to bear till my own dying day."
'"Were you to/dlIave been married to him to-night?"-
Glancing again at her dress.
"No, grandpapa,"--kneeling down by the bedside-" but
by your kind consent I will be."
"A son of Cahal O'Morra ? I know his father," said Mr.
Dashon.

408               ROSEMARY.


500

I

ROSEMARY.

"Grandmamma herself gave me to him unasked-a month
ago !" said Rose, hiding her face in the pillow.
"That is enough," said grandpapa, laying his hand on her
head. "My poor child, God bless you. A dreary future, I
fear, is before you."
"There is hope in faith and prayer," exclaimed Rosemary,
springing to her feet.
*. *     *
The youth was panting for breath. His father wiped the
dews from the pale and clammy brow. Rory was propped up
with pillows ; in a recumbent posture he would have suffo-
cated. Yet his voice was strong.-" Give me air-air !" he
said, almost fiercely. They had flung open door and window
in every direction. The night breeze swept through the
apartment, laden with the sweetest perfume from innumerable
flowers, blending with orange blossoms. Still the youth called
wildly for "Air !"
Rosemary entered, approached and took his hand.
" Had I but finished my work, Rose," said the young sculp-
tor, turning to her.       .
"If I could die for you, Rory !" answered the girl, in a
broken voice.
"How long can I last in this state, Galenson ?" asked young
O'Morra.Y
"Not many hours, unless there is a change," said Galenson,
with a slight quiver of his heavy lips.
"You hear that, Rose-do what is necessary for your
friend."
"Immediately."
"No; wait till morning breaks-I shall last till then."
"The doctor has~told me, dear Rory, that any moment--"
"I have more life in me yet than these old fogies think."--
With his old smile,
She whispered a question, brightly coloring.
"Of course," he answered, with a smile of ineffable tender-
ness. She quitted the room. Cahal O'Morra neither groaned
nor wept, but his countenance was the picture of despair.

r

PRESI1 ORAN&amp; E 13LOSSOMS.

501

After a while Mannikin re-entered the room.
"Mr. Dashon," said he, "is perfectly lucid; he can speak
and use his hands and limbs ; it is the opportunity so long de-
sired, in which he may dictate and execute his will; and there
is no knowing how long it will last."
He addressed Mr. O'Morra.
"Let them send for Plaidoyer-I cannot leave my son."
"My father," said Rory, "it is Rosemary's fortune which is
at stake. Do not let me prevent its being secured."
"My son, you ask impossibilities-I could not draw up a
will, if I would."
Bring me paper and ink," said Rory O'Morra. "I am a
lawyer-air! air !-paper and ink, I say, instantly !"
Galenson remonstrated.
"You see that escritoire; bring me paper and ink, I say,
or I will jump out of bed and get them," said the young man,
fiercely.
"Invincible will!" murmured his father, going to the escri-
toire, where he sat down and wrote. With an effort of self-con-
centration peculiar to the disciplined intellect, but in which
the will has a mighty share, Cahal O'Morra turned his attention
from his dying son and fi-xed it on the property and known
wishes of his client. In about half an hour he had drawn up
an instrument, brief but sufficient, and containing all neces-
sary clauses and provisions. While his father was writing, the
young man, though his distress obviously increased, never
uttered a word. When it was finished he asked to hear it read,
and made a legal objection, which his father admitted, and
inserted a few words to guard against it. Rosemary, who had
returned, said that her grandfather was asleep, and that he
must not be disturbed.
"We have done our part," said Rory.
Dr. Mannikin in the meantime had been gazing at the
patient with folded arms and an expression of inscrutable pla-
cidity, such as is seldom seen unless in born Quakers. When
Dr. Galenson administered a stimulant, as he did every fifteen
minutes, Mannikin smiled slightly and contemptuously. At

I


FRESH ORANGE-BLOSSOMS.

last he touched the elder O'Morra's arm, and beckoned him
into the adjacent room.
"What is it '?" asked O'Morra, with a wild yet piercing
glance. .
"Trust him entirely to me,-Sand I can save him yet. This
young man knows nothing."
"Do what you like," said O'Morra, quickly.
" Hush! let us understand each other. This is no occasion
for beating about the bush. If I save your son, I must have
my own terms."
"Take my whole fortune."
"You can afford that, since, if he lives, he weds the heiress
of the Dashons. That is not what I want."
"Speak out," said Cabal O'Morra, sternly.
"You have in your hands at last the proof of Isabella Var-.
ick's guilt. I know what you intend. Forego your vengeance
and save your son."
"I seek not vengeance-but I must protect the lives of
others-my clients.  You yourself, Mannikin, are not safe,
while this woman goes-unpunished."
"I can protect myself, and I prefer my reputation to my
life."
"And I prefer a pure conscience to the life of my only son,"
said O'Morra in a dry, unimpassioned tone. "Know this, how-
ever, that if you use not your utmost skill to save your patient,
I will make your reputation the most unenviable that physi--
clan ever had."
"I defy you," said Mannikin. "Dr. Galenson is one of the
most skilful men in the profession, and he is doing all that
the art of medicine knows. I am not obliged to interfere with
his patient, in the exercise of a skill beyond the schools."
"What is it all about '" asked Rosemary, entering the room.
"Rory is calling for you, sir."
"I have offered to relieve the son of Mr. O'Morra by an infal-
lible means, provided the measures to be taken against Mrs.
Varick are abandoned," said Mannikin.
"In other words," said Mr. O'Morra, turning back to Rose,
who held him, "I am to leave your grandparents and you at

her mercy, in order to save my own son. It does not admit of
discussion. Let me pass, Miss Dashon."
Rose drew back with reverence, and closed the door upon
him. She turned to Mannikin. Could he really save Mr.
Rory.?
"If I fail, the conditions are forfeit."
"Be generous, and trust to our gratitude."
"The gratitude of Cahal O'Morra !"
- '' You set a price upon your patient's life !"
" Shall I save it for a man who intends deliberately to plunge
me into the depths of infamy '?"
" He shall not."
" You cannot prevent him."
" Can I offer nothing '?" said Rose, turning pale, half with
anxiety, half with shame to be bargaining with such a man for
a life so dear.
" Nothing short of yourself," said the physician, with his
spectral smile.
"That is impossible, since it would be a crime, Dr. Mannikin."
"In a few weeks it will cease to be one."
"I am betrothed to Mr. Rory O'Morra," said Rose, haughtily.
"All that a man has will he give for his life," rplied the
physician.
The girl replied by a glance of contempt, and returned to
the side of her lover. Everywhere it passed, that glittering
bride-like form seemed to contradict the idea of death. Yet
opposite to the very bed where O'Morra panted for life, and
Rosemary leaned, whispering, prayers and 'holding his cold
band, was that mysterious mantel, with "Rosemary" in the
entre, and on either side the genii of wedlock and of death-
a pagan design, yet not less sibylline and prophetic. This was
the chamber long since promised to Rose for her nuptials, and
never to be used on a less occasion; reserved, in fact, for that.
Here was placed the bust of the "Marble Bride ;" here the
portraits of her father and her mother looked down upon their
child. It was characteristic of Rory O'Morra that in- spite of
his extreme peril-for at any moment he was liable to suffoca-
tion-he would not allow a clergyman to be sent for till the

503

502

ROSEMARY.


504               ROSEMARY.

earliest streak of dawn showed itself on the walls of the cham-
ber. In the meantime Rose had made all needful preparations.
Old Louise bustled about as if it were the most joyful occasion
in the world, and insisted on replacing the artificial flowers in
her 'mistress's attire, with a fresh wreath and bouquets of
orange blossoms from the green-house.
"This is the saddest garland I ever wore," said her young
mistress.
"Not near so triste as that," replied the bonne, flinging the
discarded wreath out of the window.
The sun had risen and was pouring in his first roseate rays
at the north windows, when the priest arrived. They shot
athwart the white forms of the "Marble Bride" and changed
them (as the Alpine snow-tops are changed in the same bright-
ness) to rose ; while softer shadows slept in every gentle hollow,
and a smile of heavenly serenity beamed upon the rose-tinged
lips. The sculptured mantel caught the glow, the torch of
Hymen was tipped with fire, the carved word "ROsEMARY"
shone out in golden letters on a ground of shadows: the
parental portraits on the wall above. seemed to wake and
breathe  in the warni reflected  light.  The room    was
cleared for a few minutes. Then all came in again, came in
andknelt; ttere were lighted tapers on a table covered with
a$ wy cloth; the vases on the mantel were filled with fresh
fi   rs. Old Andrew'Horton had brought them in. RIosemary's
grandparents were there ; grandpapa had come upstairs lean-
ing on the arm of his granddaughter alone. Sacrament after
sacrament was administered, and last, a ring was blessed, hands
were joined, a bride given away. Rosemary leaned forward.
with a tender blush notwithstanding his mortal agony, to receive
her husband's first and last embrace. Rory O'Morra ceased
panting, he held her for a moment ; suddenly his arms tightened
about her convulsively ; with difficulty she disengaged herself;
the bridegroom lay white and senseless, and all were horrified
to see that the bride's whole person was deluged with blood.
Amid the general consternation Galenson's heavy features
were radiant with 'joy, and Mannikin, after a moment's close
scrutiny of that pale countenance, with the look of a baffled
deaon, strode out of the house.

CHAPTER XIV.
CONCLUSION.

a
t
/;Y

J

Y .

A STORMY interview was that between the worthy Dr. Ezekiel
Mannikin and the excellent Mrs. Isabel Varick. The lady bit.
terly reproached his treachery,
"I have saved your neck, madam," said Ezekiel.
"Disinterested friend! by whose advice I put it in jeopardy
Rose Dashon was dosed by your counsel, you supplied the
drug, I ran the risk, and all the while you merely meant to get
her into your own hands, to restore her with your ready anti-
dotes, and by working on her gratitude and fears, aided by
your youthful attractions and the charms of your drab, to in-
duce her to marry you! -'What did you intend doing with your
wife, Ezekiel V"
"Divorce her, madam."
"You can't, sir,"
"In a few weeks it will be an accomplished fact, mada
"O'Morra has bought you at that price, eh 'P"
" Tis one of the conditions of our bargain."
"Iadmire candor above all things," said the lady.
"The time to speak the truth comes at last," replied the
Quaker.
There is honor betwixt thieves I" said the lady, bitterly
"It seems that you betray everybody-you will end by finding
yourself famously betrayed."
j"Whatever plans I had are now abandoned. Rosemary
Dshon is married."
J 1"io whom'?" said the lady, suddenly changing her tone t
one of simple curiosity.
"'To the son. of Cahal O'Morra."
"Hence our interests are once more identical, Isabel o
22


I

CONCLUSION.

507

506 -ROSEMARY..
are unreasonably angry with me for preferring my own to
yours. I don't love you well enough to forego an immense
fortune, that you and your children may enjoy it. I'dyn't
love you well enough to forego the brightest hope of domestic
happiness in order to wear your yoke for ever. -Youth, inno-
cence and beauty"-with a malignant emphasis-" have charms
for me, as well as others. If you expected anything else, you
reckoned without your host. But interest is interest. This
very morning I have employed means which I thought could
not fail to arrest the vengeance O'Morra has prepared for you;
for he cannot pursue it without dragging me down also. That's
interest, Isabel. At this moment nothing stands between you
and a prison but the inducements which I can yet offer that
man. Is it worth our while to quarrel ?"
"If you can curb O'Morra, you will do it for your dear sake,
of course: for if I hang, Ezekiel, I promise you that you will
swing too ; if I go to a prison, you-shan't escape. We are in
the. same boat."
"CNot altogether, madam. It can be easily shown that while
you urged an autopsy of Rose Dashon, I opposed it; that while
you, forestalling my action, had her taken from the vault, and
delivered to anatomists, for the express purpose of destroying
her life, I exerted myself to the utmost to save her. 1 can
show that my limited participation in the crime proceeded from
love, yours from hatred and cupidity. The attempt on your
aunt's life, just foiled, is wholly yours. The very servants
know that you did not permit me to prescribe for her. Mrs.
Dashon can testify that I warned her in regard to the probable
mode, of your attack, and directed her how to proceed th
instant she found herself affected. I did not anticipate tht
Infernal dexterity with which you upasized the whole family
in a vault, continued the process while theywere driving home,
and made your agent, under the plausible pretext of their very
illness, close up the carriage when they were unable to pre-
vent it, so as to exclude the fresh air, in itself almost a suffi-
cient antidote. But for young O'Morra's skill in driving and
promptitude of movement, the courage of Miss Dashon and
your own cowardice, your aunt way a dead woman, madam.

e.

ry         N A A

I admire your ability in the affair ; I disclaim any share in it."
-And Mannikin, chuckling over his own perspicuous state-
ment of the case, smiled his death's head grin in the face of
Isabel Varick,~that grew paler and paler with hatred and sup-
pressed fury. The squirrel mouth assumed its most vicious
expression.
The man was triumphant. He was still young ; there was
nothing the woman could sneer at in him but his garb, which
after all had a certain professional dignity ; but she had neither
youth to charm nor virtue to inspire respect ; she was a crim-
inal, and guilty passions had left their trail on all that once
was beauty. Last of all and hardest to bear, the partner of
her crimes proves to her that while he is on the safe side of
the law, she is exposed to its penalties and dishonors.
Nothing so dangerous as a woman thus driven to the wall
by a man who has no right to such a triumph. It was not a
good omen for Mannikin that Mrs. Varick dissembled her
feelings.
"Do what they like," said she, "they can't deprive me of
my rights of inheritance. Uncle Dashon can never make a
valid will."
"Error !" replied Ezekiel. "Your own act has destroyed
all your hopes on that side. What nearly cost your auit her
life, has restored your uncle Dashon to the use of his mind,
speech and limbs. It won't last long ; but even on his dying
bed (as we all thought) that determined young O'Morra forced
his father to draw up a will cutting you off without a cent, and
long ere this it has been executed. Rosemary is your uncle's
heiress by a testament past attacking on any ground whatever.
Even her death won't help you now-you are excluded by
name from any share in the property, directly or indirectly,
under any possible circumstances. That's how you stand,
madam, and I must say entirely by your own fault."
Isabel Varick's features now expressed the most acute an-
guish mingled with diabolical fury.
"Curse them all and you too !" she cried in a voice nearly
inarticulate with rage. "Well, let O'Morra do his worst:+le
can but plunge their name and race into infamy. Rather than

.-
,

S
}
f
r  i
i


I

508

ROSEMARY.

it should fail I will do it myself ! And as for you! viper that
I have warmed in my bosom to betray her to whom you owe
everything-beware! I can crush you too. Wretch! -out of
my.sight!---"
When Mannikin was gone, the woman sat down and wept.
"Helen Tankerville," she said in a broken voice, "thou art
avenged !"
Yet the blow for some reason did not fall. Even Johnson,
after a brief detention, was set at liberty, no one appearing
against him; his wages were paid and he was dismissed. Cabal
O'Morra took possession of Mrs. Varick's house in virtue of an
old writ, expelled th occupants and shut up the premises. As
the Varicks had   artments at Rockaway, the change was
hardly obse    outside of the family. Mr. and Mrs. Varick
were also notified that at the expiration of the currentmonth
(August) their stipend would cease. There the threatened
vengeance seemed suspended.
The extraordinary twofold news of Mr. Dashon's restoration
to health and Rosemary's return to life, flew like wild-fire. The
first talk among all the brothers and sisters-in-law, their wives
and husbands, of course ran on the will. Now it was sure to
be executed. In the happy re-united family under grandpapa
Dasiron's own roof, nothing was less talked or thought of. Mr.
Dashon had executed immediately the will drawn up by Mr.
O'Morra, as a mere security, with the avowed intention of pre-
paring another at leisure in concert with that lawyer, to carry
out more fully and minutely his intentions. He made memor-
anda of his wishes and placed them in the lawyer's hands: all
his relatives and his wife's relatives were mentioned according
to his affection and their merits.
Very happy man was grandpapa Dashon now. Except an
extreme debility of the lower extremities, almost atrophied by
disuse, there was little to remind him of his recent state of
hopeless infirmity. His grandchild's presence was a perpetual
joy. Hpr young husband, long since pronounced out of danger,
was convalescing with rapidity. Rory owed as much to inde-.
'atigable nursing as to medicine : Dr. Galenson acknowledged
that. Grandpapa visited him daily, and spent several hours in

I

1.

CONCLUSION.

509

his room. Rose was surely there. The whole range of that
floor was soon accessible to the convalescent. Grandmamma
too was very sensible that she owed her life probably to Rory,
who in doing his part had risked and suffered more than any
one. She regretted that he was not a marquis, but she allowed
that his father's fame and his own genius, their princely lineage
(which was undeniable when you knew a little of history-" do
you understand ?") made amends for the want of a distinction
enjoyed by hundreds of people whose blood was a mere mud-
puddle.
After all, too, their lot lay in America, where titles were of
no account at all. Rory for his part considered what he had
been able to dO for grandmamma as extremely commonplace
and unheroic, and particularly regretted his inability to flatten
out that rascally Johnson, to which Rose replied,-.-" It was
game unworthy of you, Rory-Thunder was good enough to
serve that wretched poltroon :"-and then Cahal O'Morra put
in his bitter smile, half softened into kindly admiration of his
daughter-in-law--" Nec Deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice
nodus.-
To say the truth, O'Morra played the invalid longer than
was absolute need. A little reflection will enable us to
understand why. Although Rory and Rosemary were mar-
ried, there was a ceremony yet to be complied with-
a choice privilege to be enjoyed-the nuptial benediction.
This could only take place in church, and although it
was not the essential, it was the most touching and solemn
part of -the marriage rite. Rose Marie y tenait, -as she
said she insisted on it as' her right and her glory ; and her
grandparents, as soon as they understood the question, were
mightily in her favor. A clinical ceremony, a death-bed mar-.
iage, was sorely opposed to grandmamma's wishes in parti-
cular ; she wanted pomp, festivity, a great concourse ; in short,
a splendid wedding : even a mere wedding-party, no matter
what eclat she might give to it, was not the thing ; but this fine
distinction between matrimony made and matrimony solemn-
ized, suited her exactly. It was not -precisely suitable, grand-
mamma thought, that whereas Miss Dashon had disappeared"

K'.

I

' t '            ;:


,-

510

ROSEMARY.

from the world on the instant before the celebration of her
marriage was to have taken place in the face of the world,
she should return to it, after six months, privately married to
another person, with the necessity of infinite explanations as
to the how and why and when. A public wedding in church
was the happiest means of anticipating and answering such
questions: all the world would then understand at once by
what they saw, that a ceremony had passed, a contract had
been made, when the bridegroom was supposed to be dying,
which, on his recovery, was completed and hallowed by more
public and more solemn rites, The period of this solemnity
having been agreed upon, it was evident that as soon as Mr.
Rory's convalescence should be fully established, he would be
obliged to quit the hospitable roof of the Dashons and return
home, a point of high decorum which the Church herself did
not deem beneath her dignity expressly to command. Hence,
the youth was slow to find himself quite well enough to
change his quarters, and was easily persuaded by the polite
urgency of the grandparents and the shy yet earnest entreaties
of his bride, to defer his departure a few days, and a few days
more.
"I know what he will do the moment he finds himself at
home; he will be' in that old studio from morning to-night,
hurrying that statue to completion; as if there were need of
such haste in getting up my monument !" said Rosemary.
"'Twill be many years before I want it, I can tell you, sir !" .
Galenson was appealed to.
" If you would know whether O'Morra is fit to take a journey,
I say yes," said the physician, -smiling: "he might resume his
rides and walks and dumb-bells with safety ; but if you mean,
is he fit to dream and rapturize over the wet clay ?-I say em-
phatically that it will play the mischief with his convalescence."
"Don't you think he will improve faster here than in Brook--
lyn, doctor V' said grandmamma.
"The air of New York is better for him than that of Brook-
lyn at present," replied Galenson, laughing. /
So Rory O'Morra remained at the Dashons', o nte ground
of being an invalid, after he had joined the family at table, and

"A

CONCLUSION.

51

could walk in the garden with Rose before breakfast, and
drive out with 'grandpapa, grandmamma and the beforemen-.
tioned Rosemary in the lovely afternoons (but they never went
to Greenwood), and was talking of a ride with the latter, on
Arab and Sorella. It was wonderful what an appetite he had,
and what pleasure Rosemary took in supplying it. He gained
so rapidly both flesh and strength that he was ashamed to stay
any longer; yet was so happy that he could not well endure
to depart whije a decent excuse remained, even in the impor-
tunities of others.
There was another member of the family, and an invalid too,
of whom we may make mention. This was Augusta Varick.
The Dashons could not and would not turn Augusta out of the
house ; young Mrs. O'Morra was unwearied in attentions to
her. Augusta had experienced a terrible blow in Rosemary's
return, perhaps a greater in the news of her marriage. Strange
to say, although the first meeting of these cousins was care-
fully prepared, so that Augusta might receive no shock, it
affected her like an apparition. She dreaded to be touched
by Rosemary, and trembled in her presence. Instead of rer-
gaining her health and spirits, she grew daily worse; a cou
supervened, a bright hectic flush appeared ; her curiosity s
excited by her mother's absence; it became necessary to tell
hethat Mrs. Varick could not be allowed to enter the house,
but that she was at liberty to join her mother at Rockaway or.
elsewhere, if she desired it. Augusta unhesitatingly preferred
to remain where she was. She kept her room, where Mrs.
Dashon paid her formal visits, Rosemary (as we have said)
friendly ones and frequent, and where "cousin Rory," at her
request, went several times to see her-for Augusta a danger-
ous pleasure, full-of excitement at the time and followed by
severe depression and almost incomprehensible languors. Dr.
Galenson prescribed soothing anti-nervous remedies and said
that nothing would be of real service to Miss Varik but a
total change of air and scene. Augusta would not hear of.
travelling unless- she could accompany cousin P osemary to
Europe, and Rose promised to take her with them. Thus the

*


512                ROSEMARY.

household Nemesis proceeded on his fatal path, the victim and
her executioners alike unconscio s.
A sad accident occurred at  ockaway, which prevented
Miss Varick from laying aside her mourning, as she was anx-
ious to do. Her father, bathing at an unusual hour, attended
only by one of his servants, was carried away by the under tow
and drowned. The servant barely escaped. The Dashons re-
sumed their mourning on the day of the funeral, which they
all attended. Grandpapa took the opportunity to invite his
brothers and sisters-in-law to be present the next day at the
execution of his will. It was generally observed that he did
not speak to the widow; and the opinion was freely expressed
that, be the cause what it might, she would be passed over.
"Of course, aunt Dashon has uncle's ear-do you under-
stand ?" said the widow, mimicking grandmamma's accent.
" If he doesn't forget the children, I shan't complain."
Rory had delayed his departure yet a few days more at
grandpapa's request, in order .to be present on this occasion.
In the evening grandmamma put on colors again, grandpapa
and young Mrs. O'Morra retaining their black.
"Dead, I consider poor George merely as my nephew," said
grandpapa. "If he has injured me, I forgive him, as I hope
to be forgiven."
The conversation, starting thence, ran on religion. Mr.
Dashon owned that he had neglected the subject all his life,
and that he deeply regretted it now. At the same time he was
quite uncertain what form of faith to choose. Rosemary play-
fully recommended her own ; grandmamma was witty and
skeptical; in her view it was purely a matter of exterior
decency.-" Then I should be a Catholic," said grandpapa,
" for beyond all question in externals that church has greatly
the advantage."--" With us," said Rory, "religion is merely
a matter of faith ; with Protestants, of feeling. To them, the
importance we attach to certain ceremonies appears to render
religion cold and heartless ; to us their rejection of the virtue
of sacraments seems incredulity."
" That very formality," said grandpapa, "is what impresses
me in your religion. I have always been, a believer, but I

F

4

never could work myself into such a spiritual frame of mind as
to fancy myself truly converted. I observed, Mr. Rory, that
when we all thought you dying, the priest merely did things for
you and let your frame of mind take care of itself."
" You were not present when he heard my confession," said
O'Morra, with a smile. "That was my preparation ; the rest
were acts of my Saviour."
"If I die suddenly, Rosey," said grandpapa, smiling, "send
for your good Father N. to put me through."
"Better send for him before, sir," said Rosemary, kissing his
hand, which she was holding in hers.
"That's true," said grandpapa, gravely. - "When the business
of to-morrow-is disposed of, I will."
Hereupon arrived Mr. Cahal O'Morra in a very cheerful
mood. He saluted the grandparents and kissed his daughter-
in-law, a privilege which his son (whose rights were too ample
to dare enforce any) had never claimed since the eventful
morn when he so happily covered her bridal garments with his
blood.
Mr. O'Morra had important news. He had at last negotiated
with Dr. Mannikin the surrender of a document which Ezekiel
claimed to possess, and which was, he pretended, of the highest
interest to Rosemary and her grandparents. All cried out,
demanding to see it.
"Hear first the conditions on which he surrenders it; a sum
of money" (naming it, and grandpapa said "Whew!"), "and the
final abandonment of all vindictive measures against Madam
Isabel."
"It ought to be a valuable document indeed."
"The second condition is almost inadmissible," said grand-
mamma.
"Mannikin adheres to two things, a fortune and a character.
This bargain gives him one, and leaves him (as he thinks) in
possession of the other."
"The document !" cried every one.
"It is a paper written by the late Dr. Tankerville for the
losack Medical and Surgical Journal, and rejected by Dr.

CONCLUSION.              513


ROSEMARY.

Edward Varick, its then editor, not less than eighteen years
ago."
Rosemary uttered an exclamation :-" Just after I was born !"
" Exactly, my dear child. The paper is a full account of
the circumstances attending your birth, when Dr. Tankervllle
attended your mother. Your appearance, size, weight and
imperfect development are described with scientific accuracy,
and the means employed to preserve your life; how you were
wrapped in cotton and suckled by a goat, and so forth: the
whole proving, as a question of science and medical jurispru-
dence, what is called the viability or capacity of life of an
infant born in little more than six months after it began to
exist. Connected with these facts, and although not absolutely
necessary to establish the conclusion, yet powerfully supporting
it, is the proof that your parents were married at such a time
and no sooner. We lack hitherto, the evidence in a legal'
sense that they.were married at all---"
" The bishop's certificate," said Rosemary, with astonishment.
" Conclusive to those who believe he wrote it, and who know
his character, but not legal evidence at all. The statement of
Louise is evidence, but it might be rebutted by showing her
strong attachment to mother and child, and it is so weak
morally that your grandfather Romarin always declined to use
it. You will presently see that he was right. Dr. Tankerville
asked your father for a written statement of the material facts ;
that statement, in the form of a letter to the doctor, is incor-
porated in the paper, in your father's own handwriting, and
over his signature. That is evidence, legal and complete."
"I don't grudge the money," said Mr. Dashon.
" Nor I the other condition-do you understand ?" said
grandmamma.
" Your father, Rosemary (we won't read the letter now),
goes into the history of his marriage from the first. Sometimes
he reflects a little severely, I think unjustly, upon his own
parents-."
Grandpapa winced; grandmamma said: "Poor Dick !"
" It appears that your father and mother, at the instigation
of Louise-a bonne's motives are easily divined-committed the

514

t
.{
S
t
r
i
R
s
r
I
.
J
+

51 5

indiscretion of marrying by a simple contract in her presence.
When Therese reported at head-quarters"-smiling at Rose-
mary - " what she had done, she found herself in a terrible
embarrassment. It was a valid marriage in the eyes of the law,
invalid utterly in the eyes of the Church ; since Varick was
not baptized.-' Disparitas cultus,' says Monseigneur, 'which
occurs between a person baptized and one unbaptized, is an
impedimentum dirimens. You are not married at all.' 'I will
be baptized,' says young Dashon,-' That is good,' replies the
bishop, C then I marry you, for what you have done now is good
for nothing except in the eyes of the law.'-From a motive of
prudence, the bishop even urged tlj there should be no
delay. The ceremonies took place, as we all know, but have
never before possessed legal evidence, in the church, on the
13th of June, 1836. And now see of what value this evidence
is. Louise has always asserted that she was present. She was
not. Miss Romarin went to church as usual alone ; the bonne
was to follow, but she was kept back by her master, and
arrived after it was all over. Believing her mistress's honor at
stake, she has lied about it from the first: a pretty witness she
would have made before the Surrogate, with a keen lawyer on
the other side ! But there was a witness, and one still living,
Mrs. George Varick."
"That is wonderful," Rosemary said.
"What is to come is more so. This paper I will read you--
it is enclosed by Varick with his own letter, and numbered as
' A.'--
"'I make the following statement for the satisfaction of my
cousin, Richard Dashon.
"'Last October my cousin gave a supper to his company at
our house, on his being chosen captain. At about one'o'clock
in the morning, as they were very noisy, aunt 'sent me down to
request Dick to dismiss them; the few gentlemen who re-
mained immediately took leave, but Richard, who was crazy
with champagne, boisterously seized my hand and insisted on
marrying me. To quiet him I consented, and we went through
the ceremony before a couple Qf waiters, when Dick was taken

CONCLUSION.


CONCLUSION.             517

516               ROSEMARY.

sick and I believe passed the rest of the night on the floor in
the parlor. At all events, the next day he expressed the
greatest contrition for his rudeness, and disavowed any serious
intention. He said that he had mistaken me' for somebody
else. For my par t I never regarded it as serious in the small-.
est degree, and two months after I was married to Mr. Varick.
(Signed)               "' ISABELLA YARICK
"'June 13th, 1836.'" -"'nieDashon.
"I'll swear to that signature in any court of justice," said
grandmamma. "Bell always signed in that way then."
"With these documents," said Mr. O'Morra, "I will defend
our Rosemary's rights as your heir-at-law in any court in the
world. Except to save trouble, I wouldn't snap my finger for
a will. Whether that paper be admitted as evidence or not,
makes no difference. I have the solution in my hands, and if
I did not make the witnesses, including madam herself, confirm
every tittle of it, or entangle themselves in hopeless contradic-
tions, my name is not Cahal O'Morra ! 'Tis a pity it can't be
tried."
"That, then, is what Bell meant by saying-' I will prove
that her mother and Dick were never married, if I have to bring
in myself guilty of bigamy.' The sense of that is very clear
now-do you understand, Cornelius ?" said grandmamma.
"I never believed there was any truth in it," said grandpapa.
"My mother's innocence is proved beyond the possibility of
cavil," said Rosemary, with a deep flush.
"There can be no doubt on that head, my dear child,"'said
Cahal O'Morra, who had never been thoroughly paternal to-
wards Rose before: "that private contract was merely intended
by your father to secure your mother, and;put it out of his own
power to marry anybody else. Your grandpapa Romarin talked
of sending her to a convent in Canada; your grandpapa Dashon
here offered his son a little fortune inhand not to marry Miss
Romarin ; but her conduct was delicacy itself, and they were
married at last with the missa pro sponso et sponsa, for which
you yourself are faithfully waiting. It is all in your father's
letter,"-

p

"You have the papers ?" asked grandpapa.
"Of course. You can read them at your leisure. Their
genuineness is beyond dispute. I can swear to Dr. Tanker-
ville's handwriting myself, and your son's letter has passages
marked in the doctor's hand, to be omitted by the printer.
There is a direction to print the initials only of the names. In
short, it is endorsed: 'To be given, in case of my death, to
Captain Louis Romarin.' Mannikin (as you know, Rosemary)
had all Dr. Tankerville's office-furniture and library; he found
this precious document, saw instantly its importance, and kept
it with a view to make his fortune by it some day. It is a fine
proof of the want of mutual confidence in guilty connections,
that in all these years he has never hinted to Mrs. Varick the
existence of a paper which annihilates her hopes. But enough
of this to-night. How are you, Rory ?"
"So well, sir, that I should have been in Brooklyn on Mon-
day, had not grandpapa insisted on my staying over to-morrow."
",You have not the air of an invalid, upon my word. But
pray, Mrs. O'Morra, indulge me with some music before I go."
Rosemary played and sang. Her delicious voice filled the
house, floating along the lofty halls, and passing out at the open
windows, where it reached ears for which it was not intended,
ears that listened as the devil listens to the songs of Paradise,
that aggravate his agony. Rose had never sung, or touched
an instrument, at Miss Tankerville's. Proud girl ! Her hus-
band turned over the music.
"A charming daughter to have !" said Cabal O'Morra.
" Thank you, sir. We ought to have the violin from the
studio, Rory," said the singer.
"By and by," said the young sculptor, in a whisper, bending
over her.
So wine and fruit were brought in. Mr. O'Morra de#
dined a bed, which grandpapa offered, and took leave. Rose-
mary embraced her grandparents and shook hands, shyly and
wistfully, with Rory O'Morra. The servants went round shut-
ting up the house.
Mr.,O'Morra had left the important papers to be lodged in
Mr. Dashon's safe ; but Rory, whose eyes were always about


1

ROSEMARY.

X18

him, considering that the windows had been open on the street
and garden all the evening, suggested as a measure of precau-
tion that they should be confided to him.
"The house is well secured," said grandpapa.
" Rose broke into it the other night !"
"I have had those windows made secure, and the wall ren-
dered inaccessible by a fan of spikes," said grandpapa, smiling.
"I defy any other thing in petticoats to pass that way."
" There are two rooms on the ground floor, of which the win-
dows are open all night," replied Rory.
" How will a robber get into my safe ' Not without waking
me,, I warrant," said grandpapa.
"I would rather they did not wake you, sir, as your health
and life are of more consequence than the documents, be the
value of the latter whatit may."
"Well, take them, Rory," said Mr. Dashon.
O'Morra put them under his pillow with a small revolver; he
could not help smiling, for it was the first time he had ever
done such a thing in his life.
Rory slept soundly. In the middle of the night he was
awakened by a noise--a heavy fall, it seemed, in the room
below, which was Mr. Dashon's. Between his bed and the
window passed a tall shadow! In an instant he had sprung
out of bed on the other side, turned up the gas, and found
himself confronting Dr. Mannikin, with a bottle in one hand
and a sponge in the other. Ezekiel dropped both and heaped
over the bed to escape. O'Morra was too agile for him; he
caught the toxicologist by the collar, and threw him upon the
floor. A fierce struggle followed. Mannikin was a man of
great muscular power and O'Morra had not yet fully recovered
strength. But the determination of the youth prevailed;
*4kiel, nearly strangled, gasped for mercy. O'Morra dragged
ybim across the floor, stupefied him with his own drug, threat-
ening instant death if he resisted; as soon as he was helpless,
the young man bound him hand and foot.
This was done in less time than it takes to tell it ; O'Morra
had slipped on part of his clothes and armed himself; in
another hIf minute he was in grandpapa's room, where the

{

CONCLUSION.

519

first thing that met his eye was Mr. Dashon on the floor, appa-
rently senseless,. the safe open, and a man at the window
throwing something out. The fellow looked back as Rory
entered: it was Johnson ; he did not wait the young man's
approach, but threw his legs over the balcony, evidently mean-
ing to let himself down by the hands into the area and escape.
The height seemed to daunt him ; the fellow was at bay ; he
turned and drew a pistol ; but O'Morra, who was advancing to
seize him, was too quick for a villain the measure of whose
malice he had so often taken ; before the burglar's weapon
was levelled, Rory had fired, and Johnson fell backward with
a groan. When O'Morra reached the window, the wretch was
most miserably impaled, on the railing, and a woman was seen
running up the street.
Poor grandpapa Dashon ! He breathed his last peacefully,
in the arms of his children, conscious (so far as one could
judge), and with every consolation of which his state admitted.
He had received neither blow nor wound, but the shock had
brought on that second stroke of paralysis, long impending,
which no human means probably could have long delayed.
* * *
How shall we further trace this history'? Why mention that
what Johnson threw out of the window was Mr. Dashon's will?
Why detail the trial before the Surrogate, on which Mrs.
Varick had the audacity to venture, O'Morra's unequalled
argument, the crushing evidence, and the judge's decisio
which, although it simply granted letters of administration to
those who represented Rosemary as heiress-at-law, blasted
Isabel's character forever ? Why relate Mannikin's mysterious
escape, and more mysterious fate, in regard to which it remai
uncertain if he perished by his own hand or by another
The latter seems not improbable, for his cowardice was n
ious, and in his last recorded rascality it appeared that
acted under the basest terror.
Roosevelt Varick has not been heard of since Rosemary'd
return home. It is supposed that he is practising law in Cali.
fornia under another name, with great success. With a gene:
rosity beyond compare, Mrs. Rory O'Morra, deferring herown


CONCLUSION.

happiness, took Augusta to the south for the winter ; a vain
experiment: her constitution had been undermined in child-
hood by narcotics ; her mother's disgrace preyed on her spirits ;
she died at St. Augustine.
In the month of May of the year following these events, a
party of the wealthiest class of people were assembled in
Greenwood cemetery, to witness the opening and benediction
of a beautiful mortuary chapel. There was a grand old lady,
in widow's weeds, a young naval officer with his wife (Capt.
Varick lives opposite Mrs. Dashon's on the Avenue, where
Mrs. Isabel used, and a good many more of our acquaintances.
The Athertons were there ; also the Colonel Marquis de Flordal.
One of the ceremonies was that of depositing in this splen-
did mausoleum the remains of Therese Dashon, boy n Romarin.
They were laid beside those of her husband, Col. Richard
Varick Dashon ; and an inscription recorded her ancestry,
marriage, and how, at the age of twenty, Jan. 1, 1837, she sacri-
ficed her life to save that of her child : the whole surrounded
with a wreath of carved rosemary.
Among those who witnessed this late reparation to the memory
of an heroic mother, was to be noted a white-haired, white-mus-
tached officer in a general's fatigue uniform, with a crape on his
arm, and a decoration in his button-hole. This venerable soldier
supported on his arm a most beautiful young woman, whose
face was suffused with tears, but less of sorrow than of tender-
ss and pride, when a veil was withdrawn, by the artist's own
hand, from one of the arches of the chapel.
Within the arch a sarcophagus, carved with a funeral pro-
cession. The lid was off. Carelessly thrown over it, as if just
ripped off, lay a rich robe wrought in the marble with the
ost delicacy of detail. In front, upon the marble steps, a
e of a spiritual beauty past expressing in words, and
thing life, love and joy. The ace was a portrait ; every
one felt that; but it was a great deal more.  Feminine it
was ; every feature, every fold of the most simple drapery,
expressed the gentler sex; but the courage that confronts the
King of Terrors without a tremor gave firmness to every har-
monious limb, and the heroic disdain of pleasure breathed on

the upraised countenance, waved in the masses of the flower-
crowned hair, and severely rose or fell in the fine pure outlines
of a shape such as might have glowed amid the fires of martyr-
dom. In a word, on this noble figure was inscribed that vic-
tory over the senses and (harder yet) over the affections, in
which it had been conceived, matured and executed. He who,
profoundly sensitive to the Beautiful, has met and conquered
its fascinations, he can make them subservient to the higher
inspirations of his soul; and it is a choice for the artistic
nature to be the master, the slave, or the victim of that magi-
cal power. On the wall, within the arch where this exult-
ing prophetess of immortality rejoiced in stone, were the words
"IN SPE ;" that is, "In Hope ;" and over it in great sculptured
letters, to mark the place of our heroine's future repose, when
her life shall at last have really yielded to the temporary power
of Death, the name
ROSEMARY.
PosTscureT..-It has been suggested to me that my lady read-
ers will not be satisfied without knowing something of Rose-
mary's nuptial solemnities, when they took place, who was there,
and above all what she wore. I prefer to leave them in a little,
*uncertainty. Have you not read the account of the celebrated
"diamond wedding ?"-" Certainly."-" Well, madam, it a-
not at all like that."-" Provoking! Well, now, tell us some-
thing -were there groomsmen and bridesmaids ?'-" The first
groomsman was Rosemary's cousin, Col. de Flordal, madam ;
the first bridesmaid,,her friend, Miss Atherton."-" Who were
the others 1"-" Never mind that."-" Was Count 'Wissen
present ?'--" He was."-" Did she wear the same dress as

I

-j

520

ROSEMART-

521


522               ROSEMARY.

when she was to have been married before '"--" It was spoilt,
madam-how could she'"-" One like it, I mean, of course !"
--" I shall tell you nothing about the dress except the flowers.
- When Rose Marie Dashon was first to have been married, but
was not, her wreath was the simple and pale jessamine ; when
she was actylly married, her brow was crowned with the
superb and bridal orange-blossoms; when her marriage was
solemnly blessed, her garland was of white roses and lilies;
intermixed with sprigs of rosemary."
THE END.

0

3
1

1 Vol. Price 38 cts.

THE WORKS
DR. J. V. HUNTINGTON.
THEFORET.5
1 Vol. Price 1.25 cts.
1 Vol. Price 75 cts.

,x


Sadlier's &amp; Co.'s New Publicati
A NEW EDITION OF THE COM
WORKS OF GERALD G
Illustrated with splendid Steel Engravings, an
the finest paper. Comprising the following
1. THE COLLEGIANS. A Tale of Garryowen.
2. CARD DRAWIN{G. A Tale of Clare.
THE HALF SIR.         "      Muster.
SUIL DHUV.            "      Tipperary.
8. THE RIVALS A Tale of Wicklow; and TRAC
4. HOLLAND TIDE, THE AYLMERS OF B
THE HAND AND WORD, and BAIlBER
5, TALES OF THE JURY ROOM. Comprise
TILE STORY-TELLER AT FAULT, THE]
OUT REPROACH, &amp;c., &amp;c.
6. THE DUKE OF MONMOUTH. A Tale of th
rection.
7. CHRISTIAN PHYSIOLOGIST, and NIGHT
8. THE POETICAL             AND TRAGEDY
9. INVASION. .An Historical Tale of the Eighth
10. LIFE OF GERALD GRIFFIN. By his Broth
The Works are bound in the following styles of
10 vols., cloth extra.........................
"     sheep, library style, in sets only.
"     half morocco, marble edges.........
" "calf, or Turkey morocco, antique....
"     full calf, or Turkey morocco, antique....
Those admirable Works of fiction should be found
every man of taste. Unlike most works of fiction
in them contrary to Faith or Morals.
"Whoever wishes to read one of the most pass
novels in English literature will take with him, di
*                    ~vacation, The Cllegians, by Gerald Griffin."-Pt?
THE COMPLETE WORKs OF GERALD GRIFFIN.-WO
and complete edition of the works of Gerald G
course of publication by the Messrs. Sadlier &amp; C4
Collegians, when it was first published, with a
never forgotton, and which we have found increase
-                                                                                                     perusal. Ireland has produced many geniuses, bu
the whole, superior to Gerald Griffin.  When we
the publication of the edition is completed we sh
render our tribute of gratitude to the memory of
--Brownson'8 Review.

ons.
PLETE
RIFFIN,
d printed on
ig Tales.
Y'S AMBITION.
3ALLYAYLMER,
OF BANTRY.
ng: SIGISMUND
KNIGHT WITH-
ie English Insur-
AT SEA.
OF GYSSIPUS.
Century.
er.
binding:
..........$1000
...full gilt, 15 00
............12 50
............15 00
............2000
........... 3000
d in the library of
, there is nothing
onate and pathetic
ring the summer
nan's Magazine.
welcome this new
griffin, now in the
o. We read The
pleasure we have
I at every repeated
t rarely one, upon
have his life, and
hall endeavour to
the gifted author


Sadlier &amp;   Co.'s New Publications.
It is not surprising that comparatively little is known in this
country, save among the more intelligent Americans citizens from
the "Emerald Isle,' of Gerald Griffin, when we consider that he
was born in the beginning of the present century, and closed his
brief, but really bright and brilliant, career of authorship at the
early age of 37. He however achieved a reputation as a writer of no
ordinary power, and as has been remarked, united all the simplicity
and cordiality of Oliver Goldsmith, to much of the fiery energy and
manly zeal of Robert Burns. We have now before us four volumes,
the commencement of a complete edition of his works, embracing
the " Collegians," and the first series of his "fMunster Tales." The
nationality of these tales, and the genius of the author in depicting
the mingling levity and pathos of Irish character, have rendered
them exceedingly popular. TLe present edition is the first published
in America. The style in which the series is produced, is highly
creditable to the enterprise of the American publishers, and we are
free to say, that the volumes are worthy of being placed in our
libraries, public or private, alongside of Irving, Cooper or Scott.-
Hunt's Merchants' Magazine.
SADLIER &amp; CO.'S NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE CONFEDERATE CHIEFTAINS. A Tale of the Irish Rebel-
lion of 1641. By Mrs. J. SADLIER. 12mo. 684 pages. Illus-
trated with four engravings. Cloth extra, $1.25
THE ART OF SUFFERING. A Tale. Translated from the French
by EDMOND BUTLER. Cloth extra, 25 cents ; cloth extra, gilt,
38 cents.
THE PRETTY PLATE, By Dr. HUNTINGTON. 1Gmo. Five plates.
38. cents ; gilt, 63 cents.
ANECDOTES 01? NAPOLEON. Compiled from various sources.
24mo. 504 pages. Cloth, 50 cents; gilt, 75 cents.
NAPIER'S HISTORY OF THE PENINSULAR WAR. Royal 8vo.
800 pages. Cloth, $2.25; half morocco, $3.00; half calf, $3.50.
SONGS OF THE NATION. 16mo. Cloth extra, 25 cents.
gilt, 50 cents.
LOVER'S SONGS AND BALLADS. Including those sung at his
"Irish Evenings." 12mo. Cloth extra, 25 cents.
NEW EDITIONS.
THE BLAKES AND FLANAGANS. A Tale illustrative of Irish
Life in the United States. By Mrs. J. SADLIER. 12mo. Cloth
extra, 75 cents; cloth gilt, $1..12.
NEW   LIGHTS; or, Life in Galway. By Mrs. J. SADLIER. Cloth
extra, 50 cents ; cloth extra, gilt edges, 75 cents.
FABIOLA. A Tale of the Catacombs. By Cardinal WIsEMAN.
Cloth, 75 cents; cloth extra, milt edges, $1.12.
A HISTORY OF THE MISSIONS IN JAPAN AND PARAGUAY.
By CECILIA MARY CADDELL. 12mo. Cloth extra, 63 cents ;
cloth, gilt edges, 88 cents.
D. &amp; J. SADLIER &amp; CO., 164 William Street, N. Y.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
             
         
       
   
