
    ----CITATION----
        Dorsey, Anna Hanson, (1815-1896). The Flemmings .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6302 wright2-0772
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Notre Dame Series of Catholic Novels.
            
               THE FLEMMINGS;
               A TRUE STORY.
            
            BY MRS. ANNA H. DORSEY, AUTHORESS OF COAINA, THE OLD GRAY
               ROSARY. ETC., ETC.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               H. L. KILNER & COMPANY. PUBLISHERS.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1869, by P. O'SHEA, in the
                  Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern
                  District of New York.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            THE following story is founded upon facts related to us a year or two ago by a
               saintly Religious, who was well acquainted with all the circumstances which led to
               the conversion of the good Puritan family whom we have introduced to the reader as
               "The Flemmings." We have simply made use of events and incidents as narrated to us,
               and described the dramatis personæ only as those
               events presented themselves to our imagination.
            We have not had the happiness to know personally any member of this pious family of
               converts, but had the gratification to read, during the progress of the story, two
               letters from "Eva Flemming," the daughter who, soon after their conversion, left all
               to devote herself to Almighty God in a religious life, where she yet toils, faithful
               to her vows in His divine service. In the first she says: "I recognized our history
               even before I received your letter. As to my Father, his character could not have
               been better described had the author known him all her life." In the next letter she
               relates some little traits of his great devotion to the Blessed Virgin, speaks of his
               age, his constant cheerfulness, his saintly life; and concludes by alluding to an
               illness under which he was then patiently suffering, in these words: "But my dear
               father's beautiful and holy life is, I fear, passing away. I am prepared to hear in
               the next letter from home that he is gone to his eternal reward."
            
            We have not heard that he passed away, then, but if he did, we do know that the
               example of such a life must go on bearing good fruits until the end of time. It is
               said by philosophers that "nothing is ever lost," but we have the assurance of
               Eternal Truth that "the righteous are held in everlasting remembrance."
            There are a few characters, and some incidents gleaned here and there from more
               southern regions, which, being true and illustrative of the ways of Divine
               Providence, we introduced them into the narrative as being in harmony with it.
            The trials of Wolfert Flemming's mind, and the conversion of himself and family in
               the manner related, may appear either miraculous or improbable to Catholics who know
               little or nothing of Protestants, and are accustomed to regard them as knowingly
               blind and irreconcilably embittered against the Catholic Church. This is, no doubt,
               true in many cases, but if the word and experience of one who, born Protestant, has
               been intimately associated with them all her life, may be trusted, the most of them
               are earnestly sincere in religion, and are only prevented from finding the truth by
               the circumstances of their birth a false system of education, and prejudices which
               have grown with their growth, erroneous and illogical, of course, but which,
               according to their enlightenment, are reasonable and just. But,
               notwithstanding all this, we venture to affirm there is not one Protestant in a
               thousand who is not more or less disturbed and bewildered by doubts, and perplexed by
               mysterious fears resulting from a study of the Scriptures, which cannot be solved by
               anything in their creed. Minds, like faces, bear a strong resemblance to one another,
               and where we find two or three having the same thoughts, doubts, perplexities and
               misgivings, it is natural to conclude that, under the same influences and
               circumstances, there may be many others disturbed in a like manner. Where there is no
               firm, unshaken belief in a Divine authority, no strong, impregnable faith to sustain
               the soul, it is natural for it to be "driven to and fro by every wind of doctrine,"
               even while it clings tenaciously to the rule of faith received on the authority of
               its teachers from the Bible; it clings to doctrine and formula although fully aware
               that there are hundreds of other sects all differing from, and opposed to, one
               another, who derive their peculiar belief from the same source. This soul can do
               nothing better for it knows of no better way.
            We have conversed often with Protestant friends, cultivated, intelligent people, who
               were well informed on every subject, except that of the Catholic religion, and we
               have listened to their discussions, so full of doubt and uncertainty, until our heart
               has yearned over them with an unspeakable pity, and we have never failed to hear the
               oft-repeated, concluding refrain: "We cannot understand it altogether, there are many
               contradictions; there seems to be something wanting, whatever it may, and we do not
               feel altogether satisfied, but we have been taught to believe so and so; and, as we
               have the Bible for our rule of faith, the fault is probably in ourselves, for you
               know that what the Bible teaches must be true." As ignorant of the Catholic religion
               as it really is, as if born in heathen lands—an ignorance partly the result of
               education—they sometimes ask questions about Catholic doctrine and precepts which
               would be absurd enough to provoke voke a
               laugh, if they did not evince such a lamentable and utter want of a knowledge of the
               truth, and such depths of prejudice, as to make one's soul sick and sad together. But
               this prejudice, mark you, is, in most instances, without a grain of malice, and we
               have watched them while they listened to simple explanations of what Catholics really
               do believe, and seen the look of incredulity and scorn melt from their countenances
               as their false impressions were removed, giving place to an expression of the deepest
               interest in the subject presented to them in so new a light. The zeal and good
               dispositions, and pure intention of pious Protestants, put to shame many of us who,
               belonging to the True Fold, and having all the Divine help it offers through the
               Sacraments, live cold and barren lives; we have known many among them who spend their
               time and means in the exercise of Christian virtues and good works, who, if the right
               opportunity presented itself of knowing the True Faith, would embrace it with joy, as
               did the Flemmings.
            Protestants are generally attracted to Catholic Churches by the music, and the beauty
               and solemnity of the ceremonies, and some by a feeling which they cannot define, but
               describe as a sentiment of devotion and awe which they never experienced before, and
               feel nowhere else. We have heard this said repeatedly by Protestants; but when, with
               softened hearts, such as these, enter into our holy temples, ready and longing to
               receive "Bread," and yet a "stone," in the shape of a sermon, loaded with stern
               invective and harsh expressions against a system which they have been taught to
               regard as sacred, and in whose precepts they have been brought up, the result can
               easily be imagined, and is to be deplored. We have known this to happen—not often, it
               is true—but often enough to send angrily and sorrowfully away souls which otherwise
               might have been lured by more gentle means into the ONE True Fold.
            We once knew a distinguished Prelate of a Southern Diocese*
                who, long since, went to his eternal reward, whose sermons always impressed,
               and won Protestants more by the Christian spirit which animated them than by his
               eloquence and gifts of oratory, both of which were of the highest order, and under
               whose preaching quite a multitude of converts were gathered into the Church. We have
               seen the (then) largest Cathedral in the country literally packed with people of all
               sects, classes, and grades of intelligence, who listened enthralled to the majestic
               simplicity of his arguments in defence and explanation of the Faith for three hours
               at a time without exhibiting the least fatigue, and why? Because the Faith which he
               so eloquently explained, and whose doctrines he so grandly defended, gave such
               unction and such ample scope to his gifted mind and saintly heart, and inspired
               thoughts and arguments of an import too sublime and holy to give him either time or
               desire to descend to a harsh denunciation of those of his hearers who, whatever their
               views of belief, were animated by a sincere desire to serve God in spirit and in
               truth, as far as their limited doctrines enlightened them. The words "heretic,"
               "schismatic," and other yet more objectionable expressions were never heard in these
               famous discourses; for, while the good Prelate demolished the "houses built upon the
               sands" by his grand
               
                  
                  *Bishop England.
               
                arguments in
               justification of Catholic Faith which, like a tidal wave, swept them away, he never
               spoke of Protestants but as our "separated brethren," and while he did not spare
               erroneous doctrines, he was tender not to wound or insult the feelings of those so
               unfortunate as to believe them.
            Because Catholics are abused and persecuted by coarse and ignorant minds, minds, in
               most cases, blinded by the errors of education, it is no reason why Catholics, who
               are blessed in the possession of a Divine Faith, which supplies every need of their
               souls, leaving nothing wanting in life or in death, should assail them with the same
               weapons; having the Truth they can afford to be charitable, magnanimous and
               christianly.
            When Protestants enter a Catholic church they feel a natural curiosity to know what
               Catholics really do believe; and, if it can be made plain to them that, while they
               claim—with secret misgivings—the Bible alone as their rule of belief, it is to
               Catholics, truly, the corner-stone of their holy Faith, which alone holds the key to
               its wonderful mysteries; a great step will have been gained, and the way opened for
               them to listen with deeper interest to all that may be said of the dogmas and about
               the Divine consolations of this saving Faith, of the practices and obligations of
               Catholics, and of the tender care the Church has for her children, living and dead.
               They will be ready to receive impressions of the true meaning of the SPIRIT of the
               Catholic religion, the faithful practice of which transforms men into saints, in
               contra-distinction to that spirit of the world which makes devils of men, who, with
               the sign of Faith set upon their foreheads by the indelible waters of Baptism, only
               wear the garb of Christianity as a cover for their misdeeds, and bring endless
               reproach, scandals and crucifixions upon the fair Spouse of Christ.
            Let us be forgiven if we have said too much, and of a sort which seems irrelevant,
               and carries us outside our sphere. Knowing them as we do, our heart is ever full of a
               great and tender charity for our "separated brethren," and we feel for them as we
               should if standing upon the safe deck of a staunch and stately ship we saw friends
               whom we love drifting over the open sea without rudder, compass, or sails, at the
               mercy of wind and waves, in crafts already leaking and disabled. We do not like to
               see them driven, wounded and angry, from our temples when we know they
               come to learn something of that Faith whose garments, and the garniture of whose
               house, appear so fair and beautiful to their eyes. This, we are glad to know, is the
               exception, not the rule; there is often gross provocation to excite retaliation from
               all sides, but the truth and the vantage-ground we hold upon the Rock of Peter is
               more than sufficient for shield, buckler and defence, against all the powers of evil
               combined.
            The history of the "Flemmings" is very suggestive. Wolfert Flemming represents a
               large class in our land, and let us hope that at least some few of them may be led by
               his example to seek the Truth where alone it can be found; and, like him, rejoice in
               the solace and rest it affords after all their doubts and toils.
            
               AUTHOR.
            
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. THE OLD "HOMESTEAD," AND ITS OCCUPANTS. 7
               
               CHAPTER II. WHAT CAME OUT OF THE STORM TO THE FLEMMINGS. 19
               
               CHAPTER III. WHAT THE FLEMMINGS THOUGHT AND WHAT THEIR GUESTS THOUGHT. 33
               
               CHAPTER IV. HOW THE DAY PASSED AND HOW IT ENDED. 46
               
               CHAPTER V. PATRICK MCCUE'S KEEPSAKES. 60
               
               CHAPTER VI. THE INNER LIFE OF WOLFERT FLEMMING. 75
               
               CHAPTER VII. MRS. FLEMMING IS THANKFUL FOR THE PROSPERITY AND HAPPINESS OF HER
                  FAMILY. 88
               
               
               CHAPTER VIII. GROPINGS AND THE SHADOW. 102
               
               CHAPTER IX. THE FLOATING SHADOW. 116
               
               CHAPTER X. MRS. FLEMMING HAS A GREAT SHOCK. 128
               
               CHAPTER XI. LIGHT OUT OF DARKNESS. 142
               
               CHAPTER XII. THE NEW DAY. 161
               
               CHAPTER XIII. MRS. FLEMMING AT BAY. 177
               
               CHAPTER XIV. SACRIFICE. 193
               
               CHAPTER XV. LETTERS. 205
               
               CHAPTER XVI. TRIALS COME NOT SINGLY. 219
               
               CHAPTER XVII. JOHN WILDE. 235
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. PATRICK MCCUE AND HIS LETTERS. 256
               
               CHAPTER XIX. SORROWS ARE NOT ACCIDENTS. 273
               
               CHAPTER XX. WOLFERT FLEMMING'S BIRTHDAY. 294
               
               CHAPTER XXI. MRS. FLEMMING IS GLAD OF SOMETHING AT LAST. 318
               
               CHAPTER XXII. THE MAN WITH THE HAMMER—THE LAST BITTER DROP. 349
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. LIGHT BEHIND THE CLOUD. 372
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. HOW THE CLOUD PASSED AWAY AND THE LIGHT SHONE. 399
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The Flemmings
            
            THE FLEMMINGS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE OLD "HOMESTEAD," AND ITS OCCUPANTS.
               IT was a wild and bitter night even for that region, where the Ossipee mountains
                  dip their feet into the waters of that beautiful Lake, which the red man, with his
                  higher appreciation of nature, called Winnipiseogee, the smile of
                  the Great Spirit; a night so stormy and cold that not a living thing was unhoused,
                  far or near, either on the broad farmsteads which lay upon the sloping lands
                  between the mountains, or around the rude log huts perched like eyries on their
                  rugged sides. Only the wild creatures driven down from the pathless forests of the
                  mountain ranges beyond, by cold and hunger, nearer towards the habitations of men,
                  were abroad; and perhaps some luckless traveller who, belated on his journey, had
                  lost his way among the drifts. Since the day before, snow had been steadily
                  falling, until not even the bleached head of Chocorua could be seen as the day
                  faded into the whiteness of the storm, and both were wrapped together in the
                     blackness ness of the wild night. Gusts
                  of wind swept down through the mountain gorges with a blending of fierce, shrill
                  sounds, as if the spirits of ten thousand Indian warriors were abroad, mingling
                  their savage war-whoops and death-songs together while like mounds of the mighty
                  slain, the snowdrifts rose higher and higher, until every by-way and road became
                  impassable.
               But there, inside Wolfert Flemming's great rambling farm-house, there was ruddy
                  light, warmth and good cheer. That quaint old room where he and his family sat
                  grouped about in the warm glow of the fire-light would have charmed the eye of a
                  Flemish painter; and I will describe it—not with an idle purpose—with its depths
                  of shadow, its dancing lights and glowing warmth. It was a large, low-raftered
                  room, at the north end of which was a fire-place of enormous breadth and depth,
                  whose sides and high mantlepiece were set with pictured tiles representing goodly
                  scenes from the Old Testament, while upon the brightly painted hearth a pair of
                  massive andirons, crowned with great globes of burnished brass, were piled up with
                  blazing logs of hickory and resinous pine which flamed and crackled with a merry
                  din, while the smoke, ruddy with fire, went curling with a soft roaring sound into
                  the deep chimney as if the thousand of sparks that it carried into the dark
                  recesses aloft were golden bees, humming and swarming home to their hives. On the
                  broad shelves arranged on one side of the wall there was a great array of white
                  china, and platters and tankards of pewter, scoured to the brightness of silver,
                  over which the fire-light leaped and played in many a line of crinkled gold; upon
                  the oaken floor, dark and polished by the feet of the generations who had trodden
                  it, it danced and glimmered; upon the glass of the small deep-set windows, it
                  flashed and glittered until they looked like the jewelled windows of Alladeen's
                  palace; up among the dark rafters, it lit up the old Continental muskets and
                  swords; the deer's head with its broad antlers; the Indian bows and arrows; and
                  the festoons of sweet-smelling herbs, which were in various ways secured to them,
                  until one might have thought—watching it flashing in and out—that birds with wings
                  of flame were flitting through the shadows under the roof. But still more brightly
                  it dashed itself into the antique beaufét set in an angle of the wall, and broke
                  into a thousand sparkles on the old-fashioned pieces of silver, and the odds and
                  ends of rare burnished china—the precious heirlooms of the Flemmings—which were
                  ranged in state behind the glass door, as if this spot above all others were most
                  worthy of being glorified. And right bravely they gleamed in the red dancing
                  fire-light, those antique pieces of silver and those scraps of marvellous
                     china, brought from the ends of the
                  earth by the ancestral Flemmings, some of whom had sailed their stout ships with
                  the first explorers amongst the ice floes of the Arctic seas; while others had
                  fought the Spaniard and burnt his forts among the spice islands of the Orient.
                  Somewhere about the time that the imperishable "May Flower" landed that "goodlie
                  companie,"—who afterwards proved how well they had learnt the science of
                  intolerance from the persecutions and oppressions they had themselves endured—on
                  Plymouth Rock, a Flemming, the last of the European line, found his way with his
                  wife and household chattels to the American wilderness, and pitched his tent on
                  the spot where we find his descendants. In the course of time he built his modest
                  homestead, which consisted of this low-raftered, oaken-floored room, and a smaller
                  sleeping apartment. Those were the times when the Indians, taxation and
                  intolerance—sometimes one, sometimes another, and sometimes all together—made the
                  lines hard for dwellers in the land; but he and his brave sons, and their
                  descendants after them, defended their home against savage violence and
                  destruction, and afterwards through the fire and blood of seven years
                  revolutionary war spared no sacrifice to serve their country, shrunk from no toil
                  to raise their children to a better condition than their own, and fill their home
                  with every domestic comfort within their reach. In that corner the old beaufét had
                  been built when the walls of the "homestead" were raised, and upon its shelves the
                  first American Flemmings had arranged their treasures of silver and china; always
                  hidden away in times of danger, again taken out and burnished and set in goodly
                  array by fingers long since crumbled to dust. And here Wolfert Flemming decreed
                  they should remain, although his wife and daughters with womanly vanity and many
                  soft persuasions showed reasons why they should be displayed in the "best room" of
                  the large and new addition he had made to his house; but their special pleading
                  availed nothing, the old heirlooms were to stay where his forefathers had placed
                  them, and here, with the old oak settles and the clumsy old oak chairs, and the
                  clumsier old oak tables, they were still shining and glistening in the red cheery
                  fire-light. This room was very dear to the man's true honest heart, for its old
                  associations as well as its new—and to the hearts of his household; indeed they
                  never used the "new house," as they called it, except on extraordinary occasions,
                  such as the installation of a new minister or a "Forefather's Day," or a grand
                  quilting or apple paring, or something of that sort, when all the young folk, far
                  and wide, were invited to work, feast and frolic. There was a subtle attraction in
                  this quaint old room for all the
                  Flemmings, old and young, a something which made them feel nearer and dearer to
                  each other, for here each one uttered his thoughts without restraint, and with
                  that sweet confidence in one another which left but small occasion for any
                  uncharitableness or heart-burning. Here also, in plain and genuine sincerity, they
                  admonished and reproved each other with christianly spirit, holding up one
                  another's hands, warming one another's hearts, until the bonds that bound them
                  together were stronger than death. Here the weak sought the strong, the sad of
                  heart clung to the hopeful, and the desponding came to bask in the cheerful and
                  wholesome mirth of the happy; here, from their earliest recollection, they had
                  gathered together, morning and evening, around their father and mother, to worship
                  God according to their teachings and with the genuine simplicity of honest hearts
                  hear read the word of God, which, full of far-off mysteries to them, impressed
                  their minds with a noble love of truth, high spiritual aspirations, and a solemn
                  reverence for religious things. Simple in mind and heart, they accepted as true
                  what they were taught, and lived justly according to the lights they had. But the
                  Flemmings took no thought of analyzing their lives, and if any one had said
                     to them, what I have written of them,
                  they would have set him down as a shiftless sort of dreamer, and unfit for a
                  useful work-a-day life; such an one as they feared their golden-haired Reuben
                  would be. They were a matter-of-fact, clear-headed people; and if a thought once
                  got into their heads, and this thought had fair play—which it generally got in
                  their well-balanced brains—and lifted like a lever some tangible principle into
                  existence, there was not a Flemming of them all who would not have suffered
                  martyrdom in its defence.
               There they all sat, that stormy winter's night, their comely, honest faces fairly
                  glorified by the golden radiance of the fire, almost inclining one to believe in
                  the old Saxon superstition that angels are always basking in the light of a wood
                  fire.
               Eva and Hope Flemming sat together, their young faces bent over wonderful blocks
                  of patchwork, a brillant geometrical problem known as "Job's trouble," which they
                  were uniting with much taste, while they chattered together in an undertone of the
                  quilting bee they would have when it was finished. Very fair and comely were these
                  two daughters of the house, in the first flush of a healthy and pure womanhood:
                  their forms well developed and symmetrically rounded; their features well cut and
                  handsome; their teeth showing like pearls between their red lips, and their beauty
                  crowned by thick suits of soft golden brown hair, which was pushed back loose and curling from Eva's rounded
                  forehead, but which fell in smooth, heavy bands on each side of Hope's more
                  intellectual brow, and was twisted together in a heavy coil at the back of her
                  finely formed head. Their father, Wolfert Flemming, sat a little apart from them,
                  at a table upon which was outspread the large family Bible, a relic of early
                  English printing, for which the savans and
                  literary people who sometimes came to spend their holidays amongst the romantic
                  scenery of the neighborhood, had time and again offered him large sums; but no
                  money could have purchased it, and no inducement persuade him to part with it. He
                  liked the looks of it, the obsolete spelling, the quaint letters, the rude line
                  engravings; and above all, the family record of his house for generations back.
                  The book was opened at the sixth chapter of St. John's Gospel, and he was reading
                  to himself, with a reverent but troubled look upon his countenance. He was a tall,
                  muscular man, broad-shouldered and well formed, his lower jaw square and firmly
                  set, with a cleft in the chin just redeeming his countenance from grimness; his
                  eyebrows were dark and heavy, and overhung a pair of large intelligent gray eyes;
                  his forehead broad and moderately high, crowned with a full crop of soft black
                  hair, thickly sprinkled with white. Dressed in a suit of brown homespun, which
                  hung loosely upon him without anything to relieve its homeliness of color or
                  style, except the exquisite whiteness of his coarse linen collar, turned well back
                  from his throat, and the spotless cuffs fastened around his sinewy wrists by a
                  pair of old-fashioned gold sleeve-buttons, there was yet in the appearance and
                  attitude of the man a dignity and power as remarkable as it is difficult to
                  describe. There was a vacant chair near—one of those prim, low-seated high-backed
                  chairs, rich in beading and grotesque carving, all filled in with fine cane-work
                  which people who own them declare, with due solemnity, were brought over in the
                  "May Flower;" but the Flemmings had no such tradition of this one, and yet they
                  never doubted but that it was brought in the old Puritan days from England by some
                  of the early settlers; and wished sometimes that it might speak its own history,
                  for it may have belonged to Miles Standish himself. Its origin, however, gave them
                  small anxiety; it was so well filled that their eyes, hearts and minds were fully
                  satisfied when its usual occupant, their little mother, was throned upon it; and
                  had she by any inexorable event been forced to vacate it, it would never have been
                  used again, but put aside as a precious relic of the best wife and mother who ever
                  lived. They had all of them a very good idea of relics in a limited sense, and
                  would only have regarded them as superstitious if religion had invested them with a sacred or spiritual meaning.
                  Mrs. Flemming had just flitted from her chair, knitting in hand, to see after the
                  welfare of a calf which was so unfortunate as to be born in the middle of a New
                  England winter, and about which all her motherly instincts were aroused. There was
                  yet another of the family group present, who sat leaning against an angle of the
                  fire-place, poring over the pages of a well worn book, while the glow of the
                  yellow flames fell round and upon him with a radiance that brought him out from
                  the dark back-ground like one of those celestial figures one sees in the pictures
                  of Domenichino and Velasquez. He was slight and delicately formed, his forehead
                  broad and serene; his eyes large, blue and tender; while his pale golden hair,
                  parted in the middle, fell in soft waving masses over his cheeks and neck. This
                  was Reuben Flemming, the youngest of the children, a puzzle and sweet torment as
                  well as mystery to the strong. practical, wholesome minds of his kindred, who were
                  utterly at a loss to know what he was good for, because hard, energetic, ceaseless
                  work did not agree with him, but set him to faint if he attempted to do what his
                  sturdy brother Nicolas did, or turn white and trembling with a strange sickness
                  which neither he nor they could understand. But Reuben Flemming had a marvellous
                  energy for books; indeed all of them were fond of books, and read intelligently,
                  but with him it was a passion in whose sweet trances he would lose himself with
                  utter forgetfulness of his surroundings: and Hope, who often watched him in those
                  moods, declared that it was equal to seeing the rich glory of sunset reflected on
                  the haze of the distant mountains, to mark the changeful emotions of his heart
                  pictured on his lovely countenance.
               Mrs. Flemming came in now and brought good news of the calf, and also a wholesome
                  breath of pure chilly air as she fluttered around, and passing her hand lightly
                  and tenderly over her husband's head, leaned over his shoulder and with a little
                  sigh whispered: "Still troubled over the text;" and getting no answer, left him
                  and took her seat upon her throne. A little body was Martha Flemming, neat, tidy
                  and alert, with a quick, shrewd intelligence in her fine black eyes, and an
                  expression of benevolence on her forehead which almost belied the rather
                  suspicious and vindictive mouth whose thin lips and narrow chin made strangers
                  think she was a hard one to deal with, as she was, until to her clear thinking all
                  that seemed doubtful in principle or fact was made clear to her.
               "I am thankful," she said, as she settled herself and began turning the heel of
                  her sock; "that the last chore is finished. The poor silly calf is as comfortable
                  as can be; but I do wish Nick was at home
                  It is still snowing; indeed it falls thicker than ever
               "I told you so, Hope—I knew yesterday by the white mists over the mountains that
                  we should have a good old-fashioned snow before long. I am so glad," said Eva with
                  a little laugh.
               "So am I," said Hope; "the ground is wellfrozen, and the sleighing will be
                  perfectly splendid. I do admire to see a great heavy fall of snow that covers up
                  fences and walls, and blocks one up until one has to be dug out." Just then a gust
                  of wind was hurled down from the mountains with such a roar and commotion that the
                  house trembled at the shock, while the sleet lashed the windows and walls with a
                  shrill whistling sound that rose and fell with the wind like despairing shrieks.
                  The women, although accustomed to the wintry storms of that region, had never
                  heard the like of this before, and let fall their work and looked at each other,
                  startled and pale. The boy Reuben did not hear the din; he stood beside Uriel in
                  the sun, listening to the cherub who sought knowledge of Eden, his soul thrilling
                  with horror, as at the angel's touch the beautiful heaven-clad thing faded into
                  the swart defiant, scowling image of Lucifer.
               Wolfert Flemming lifted his head from the inspired page, and with an exalted look
                  exclaimed: "O ye cold and heat, bless the Lord! O ye dews and hoar frost, bless
                  the Lord! O ye frost and cold, bless the Lord. O ye ice and snow, bless the Lord;
                  O ye nights and days, bless the Lord. O let the earth bless the Lord; let it
                  praise and exalt Him above all, forever." With another man, this might have seemed
                  like a dramatic display, but in him it was the spontaneous outflowing of a soul
                  whose thoughts dwelt habitually on the infinite attributes of the Supreme Being,
                  and who searched the Scriptures daily, hoping to find in them—nay, believing that
                  he had—the words of eternal life.
               "I guess father," said Mrs. Flemming after a little pause, "that we ought to be
                  thankful that everything is housed. There's no such apples, potatoes, or pumpkins
                  either, around as ours. I'm glad to know they are safe; but, deary me! I do wonder
                  where Nick can be this wild night?"
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               WHAT CAME OUT OF THE STORM TO THE FLEMMINGS.
               "Nicholas is safe, depend upon that, mother,' said the Elder, as he arose and
                  stretched himself; then grasping the heavy tongs, he turned over the fire, heaped
                  up the coals, and poked and punched between the crevices of the logs, with an
                  infinite relish in the din and sparkle that he raised. "I suppose he is up to Deacon
                  Sneathen's."
               "Yes," said Eva, laughing slyly, "he promised to tell Huldah how to manage her
                  hydrangers."
               "So. It is early to begin spring gardening," said the Elder, with a grim smile,
                  not displeased at the hint.
               "Huldah is a natty, industrious girl," said Mrs. Flemming, knitting vigorously;
                  "and raises the finest chickens and spins the evenest yarn of any one from here to
                  Alton Bay."
               Wolfert Flemming—or "the Elder," as he was called by the people of his
                  sect—turned, and looked fondly at the little figure of his wife, smoothed her hair
                  with his great, brown hand very gently, and said: "Martha! Martha! thou art
                  troubled about many things."
               "Yes, I know it," she replied, with a merry little laugh. "I don't know what in
                  the land's name would become of you all if I were not."
               "I don't like that word trouble, 'little mammy;' it sounds reproachful, and I am
                  sure that you are very proud of us all," said Eva.
               "Trouble's trouble, my dear. It was no fun to have raised the family I have—"
               "And the husband—"
               "Nonsense, father, you were raised before I was born, but land sakes! just listen
                  at the storm. I do wish that Nick had not gone away this morning."
               "Mother, you forget that Nicholas has spent the last four years of his life in
                  Franconia, where he's learned to take care of himself. Trust in God for your boy's
                  safety, and in his own sagacity," said the Elder gravely, for he could not bear to
                  have her troubled or anxious.
               "Well, I'll try my best; but it would be frightful for any living thing to be
                  exposed to the fury of this storm." Then, after a little while, she said: "What do
                  the people down at —— say about the new-fangled meeting house?"
               "They are greatly excited over it, and guards are stationed around it every night
                  to prevent its being torn down," said the Elder, sternly.
               "What in the world sort of sect is it? Is it Romish?"
               "Well, about as bad; it's one of the Church of England tabernacles, and their
                  preacher or priest, or whatever he is, is as ignorant of the simplicity of the
                  Gospel as the Pope of Rome himself."
               It's enough to rouse the Pilgrim Fathers from their graves, to have such doings on
                  the soil of New England. Time was, when the lines would not have been quite so
                  easy for them as now. I heard my grandmother tell of one that was kept in the pillory a day and night, and
                  branded, for preaching strange doctrines in our borders. What's that?" exclaimed
                  Mrs. Flemming, with a start.
               "Mother, I hear nothing but the wind," said her husband.
               "Land sakes! I certainly heard a knocking somewhere; I hope it is not Indians. The
                  house don't overget their filthy ways for a week when we have to harbor them.
                  There it is again—"
               "Yes, some one was knocking at the side-door of the new part of the house; there
                  was a momentary lull in the storm, and they all heard it—a low, quick knocking, a
                  smothered cry and sudden silence. The Elder took up the candle and went out,
                  followed by Eva. Mrs. Flemming sat still, and knit with nervous rapidity, not
                  overmuch pleased at the prospect of entertaining Indians. The Elder strode through
                  the room adjoining the 'old homestead,' and turned down a long narrow passage, at
                  the extremity of which was the door whence the sounds came. He gave the candle to
                  Eva, who stood shading it with her hand, and unlocked the door; then, turning the
                  latch, quickly opened it, and was almost thrown off his feet by a man falling
                  heavily on him. The wind rushed in with a wild shriek, driving in sleet and snow,
                  and extinguished the light. Eva screamed with terror, but her father's voice,
                  clear and distinct, yet slightly tremulous with excitement, rose out of the
                  darkness, bidding her close the door: 'I am not hurt,' he cried; 'but here is a
                  man frozen, or dead, in my arms. Courage, child, and close the door quickly.' The
                  wind was blowing with tremendous force, but the strong healthy girl threw herself
                  against the door, and after a struggle which quickened her breath, she succeeded
                  in closing and locking it. By this time Mrs. Flemming and Hope, uneasy at their
                  long absence, joined them—all in the dark together, asking and answering
                  questions, as they groped their way back to the sitting-room, moving slowly, for
                  the weight of the frozen man was heavy even to the Elder."
               "I knew that I heard a knocking," said Mrs. Flemming; "and now, suppose he should
                  be frozen to death through our not going at first."
               "I don't think he's frozen to death, mother," he replied. "God forbid such a thing
                  should happen at our door. I think he is only benumbed with the cold and fatigue
                  together."
               They were now in the room next to their sitting-room, and through the open door a
                  stream of light and warmth entered, and the Elder laid his unbidden guest very
                  gently down on a broad chintz-covered lounge, while the others ran to get
                     restoratives atives, blankets, and
                  pillows. He unfastened the man's wrappings, unbuttoned his vest and shirt, and
                  laid his hand anxiously over his heart; for there was no pulsation in the big
                  brawny wrists, no life in the blue frozen hands so helpless and cold. "It beats,"
                  he said at last; "beats very faintly. Open the door wide; that will let in heat
                  enough for him now, poor fellow," said the Elder, while he rubbed the stranger's
                  chest vigorously. "A few drops of brandy, mother—now a little more—he swallows
                  it—rub his wrists; bring in warm flannels—"And they rubbed him and ministered to
                  him long and patiently, and hopefully, until the signs of life grew more frequent
                  and distinct, and finally his stagnant blood flowed slowly and warmly through his
                  veins. He opened his eyes, and looked with a dreamy wonder about him and into the
                  strange faces around him.
               "You are all right now, friend," said the Elder; "take a drink of this hot
                  coffee;" and he held the steaming cup to the stranger's lips, while he put his arm
                  under him, lifting his head from the pillow. Who was this waif that the storm had
                  driven into their home? was he a prophet of evil to the happy household, or were
                  they entertaining an angel unaware?" They did not know; they had not even thought
                  of who or what he might be. Mrs. Flemming was only heartily glad that he was not
                  an Indian, and the girls thought him uncommonly hard-featured. There was not the
                  smallest figment of anything in his appearance in which there was a possibility of
                  romance; his features were large and coarse, his head was covered with a shock of
                  grizzled sandy hair, almost red; and the lower part of his face was hidden by a
                  thick tawny beard, grotesquely covered with small icicles, which were melting at
                  their leisure. The sisters thought he was a Jew; but all of them recognized only
                  one fact concerning him, and that was he was their guest, thrown by Providence
                  upon their hospitality. He drank the hot fragrant coffee slowly, and with some
                  difficulty in swallowing; then he began to fumble about his breast, inside his
                  vest, and about his neck, with trembling fingers and perplexed look.
               "He misses something," said Mrs. Flemming. "Is it your money that you are looking
                  for?" He shook his head in the negative; the cold had had such an effect upon him
                  that his powers of articulation were not yet restored. It was not his money.
               "Perhaps it is his watch. Is it your watch, sir? See, here it is, safe and sound,"
                  said the active little woman, holding his old silver watch, as big as a turnip,
                  before his eyes.
               No, it was not the watch, which he motioned away from him, nor was it a "locket" or a "miniature." "Well," exclaimed Mrs.
                  Flemming, "I'm beat out. Come here, Reuben; this stranger has lost something, and
                  is fretted about it; see if you can help me make out what he means." Reuben had
                  just come in; he had been helping with the rest to restore the frozen man, but had
                  stepped out at his mother's bidding to fetch an additional blanket from an upper
                  room.
               "Perhaps it is this. While father was rubbing his breast, this flew off upon the
                  floor; father must have broken the string," said Reuben, holding by a bit of
                  broken cord a brass medallion, upon which was graven the figure of a woman.
                  Whatever it is, there is a cross on the other side." A gleam of joy lit up the
                  homely face of the stranger; he stretched out his hand to take his treasure, and
                  pressing it to his lips, murmured, "Blessed Mother;" then, folding it close to his
                  breast, he fell into a quiet sleep, heaped over with soft fleecy blankets, his
                  head placed on downy pillows, while the storm howled without as
                  if enraged at losing its prey.
               "Poor man, I am glad he found that thing of his mother's; I guess it is some
                  keepsake she gave him years ago, and I shouldn't wonder if she is dead," said Mrs.
                  Flemming, settling herself once more at her knitting. "I do wish Nick was home
                  with us—it is an awful night."
               Wolfert Flemming's own heart was not altogether easy about his absent son. He
                  might be safely housed at Deacon Sneathen's, or he might be lying cold and stark
                  among the frozen drifts; but he kept his anxiety to himself, and talked of other
                  things, trusting all the while in God for the safety of his first-born. "We have
                  just rescued a stranger from death," he thought to himself; "we have done unto him
                  as a brother; so may our Father in Heaven do unto us;" and somehow he was
                  comforted.
               "I tell you what, father," said Mrs. Flemming, after a silence longer than usual;
                  "maybe that man in there is not a safe one to have under our roof. Suppose we move
                  him to the barn; there's plenty of nice sweet straw there, and he can have the
                  blankets and pillows."
               "Nonsense. I won't have him disturbed, wife," said the Elder, frowning.
               "I shan't sleep a wink to-night," she continued. "Eva, see if the beaufét is
                  locked; but stop. Reuben, you and the girls take the silver out and carry it up
                  stairs to my room."
               "Let the silver be," said the Elder, gravely. 'Is it seemly for Christians to hold
                  a halter in one hand, when they do a thing for God's sake, with the other? Be
                  patient, thrifty, and careful, little wife; and comfort yourself with the thought
                     of those treasures which are laid up
                  where neither moth nor rust doth consume, and where thieves break not through and
                  steal."
               Mrs. Flemming had too much respect for the genuine goodness of her husband to
                  argue this point with him; but she felt that, according to her common-sense view
                  of the matter, he was wrong in fact, however right he might be in
                  principle; so this managing little woman determined on a piece of strategy, by
                  which she could preserve her treasures from harm, and at the same time avoid
                  disobeying her husband; she would, under some domestic pretence, stay in the
                  sitting-room a little while after the family had retired, and bolt the door
                  between it and the other one occupied by the stranger; and being always the first
                  one down in the morning, she could slip the bolt back, and no one be the wiser.
                  This idea quieted her mind, and she began to narrow the toe of her sock with much
                  complacency, taking part now and then in the cheerful conversation of her
                  daughters; while the Elder walked up and down, with his hands clasped behind him,
                  pondering over that chapter of the Gospel of Saint John, which had for years
                  troubled him secretly, thinking deep thoughts which led him into a mental
                  labyrinth whereof he held no clue, which led him, as the Star did the Eastern
                  kings, until having come to Jerusalem, it disappeared.
               The next morning Mrs. Flemming found everything safe—none of her treasures had
                  taken to themselves wings and flown away, and she saw how much anxiety she might
                  have spared herself; but, womanlike, she reasoned: "It is best to be on the safe
                  side; there's no knowing what may have happened." Then she bestirred
                  herself to prepare a substantial and delicious breakfast, which was ready to be
                  spread on the snow-white cloth by the time their morning devotions were over. They
                  were all seated around the table when their guest came in. He had a stooping,
                  ungainly figure, and returned their salutations with an awkward obeisance; the
                  Elder made a place for him near himself, and Mrs. Flemming began to pour out a cup
                  of coffee for him, feeling a little guilty as she looked into his honest eyes. The
                  man sat down, then he bowed his head, and lifting his right hand, made the sign of
                  the cross, not in a little twiddle on his breast, as if he were ashamed of it, or
                  in a twirl and flutter of his fingers, as if he were catching flies, but a slow,
                  deliberate, broad-spread sign, in which there was so little to be mistaken that
                  Mrs. Flemming, who had been watching him, exclaimed: "Good gracious!" and gave
                  such a start that the cup and saucer fell from her hand with a clatter upon the
                  tray, spilling its contents into a freshly-filled bowl of her best maple
                  sugar.
               
               The stranger raised his eyes and looked around, unconscious of the excitement he
                  had caused; the Elder asked him how he felt, while he helped him to bacon and
                  eggs, and Mrs. Flemming, with a red flush or her cheeks, poured out another cup of
                  coffee. Before he began to eat, he held his knife awkwardly poised, and with a
                  hesitating bashfulness, said: "I'm heartily obliged to you all for your kindness;
                  God and His saints reward ye for the same. I must have perisht if ye hadn't taken
                  me in. I was almost agone, when of a sudden I saw the light from your windows;
                  after that I couldn't remember anything."
               "We are thankful to have saved a fellow-being from such a dreadful death. Where
                  were you going?" said the Elder.
               "To Wier's Landing," he replied.
               "A long journey, even for a summer day. You must be a stranger to these
                  parts?"
               "It hasn't been six months, sir, since I landed in Boston, from Ireland, and I
                  thought I'd come up the counthry with my pack,—I am a peddler;—but I staid longer
                  than I intended, and was on my way back when the snow caught me on the mountains,
                  blinding me so that I lost my way entirely."
               "You have had a narrow escape—I don't remember such a storm in many years"—said
                  the Elder, who had not noticed him bless himself.
               "You are very welcome to the small service we have rendered you, and also to
                  remain with us until it will be safe for you to travel." A warm, grateful glow
                  suffused the stranger's countenance; his heavy eyes lit up, and, folding his hands
                  together, he leaned towards the Elder and said in fervent tones: "May the
                     holy Mother of God reward you."
               There. It was out. It had exploded like a bomb in the very bosom of this good
                  Puritan family, that their guest was neither Indian, thief, or Jew, but a papist,
                  than which they had nothing in greater horror; and here, under their very roof,
                  eating at their table, practicing his superstitious rites and uttering his
                  idolatrous prayers, before their very eyes, he sat in this room of all others,
                  where for generations God had been worshipped according to the orthodox teachings
                  of Luther and Knox. An Irishman his speech betrayed him, a papist his little acts
                  of devotion confessed him; the combination was overwhelming, and the meal was
                  finished in silence, for there was an ominous look on Martha Flemming's face,
                  seldom seen, but when seen they all knew its portent, and respected as well as
                  dreaded it. She followed her husband from the room, her step quick and firm, her
                  head thrown a little back, a sparkle in her handsome black eyes and a red spot on
                  each cheek. Meanwhile the simple soul,
                  utterly unconscious of offence, drew a chair up beside Reuben, and told him, with
                  an effort to be brave and careless over it, that he had lost his "pack,"
                  containing all of his earthly goods, in the drifts. "He thought, as well as he
                  could remember, that he had it when he saw the lights from the windows, and that
                  was the last bit of consciousness he felt; did Reuben think he could get some one
                  to go a little way with him to look for it?"
               "I'll speak to my father, sir, when he comes in," said Reuben, kindly. Then he
                  asked him if he had travelled much in the "old country." "Yes, the man had been to
                  France, and Spain, and Algiers!" Then Reuben, all aglow with enthusiasm, asked
                  question after question about those beautiful lands of his poetic dreams, and if
                  he got no poetry and romance in exchange, he received shrewd, sensible answers,
                  which made him feel as happy as if he were reading a new book. The girls were busy
                  over their morning duties in the household, and when Mrs. Flemming came back she
                  saw her son, his arm leaning on the man's shoulder, their heads so close together
                  that his golden hair and the other's grizzled locks mingled, the one telling
                  strange tales of other lands, the other listening entranced.
               "Reuben," she said sharply, "come, get down some bundles of yarn to reel; I don't
                  see how you can sit around idling, where all are busy."
            
            
               CHAPTER III
               WHAT THE FLEMMINGS THOUGHT, AND WHAT THEIR GUEST THOUGHT.
               IT is not as safe to judge by the actions as by the intention and the degree of
                  light which gives expression to the motives in different minds. The confession of
                  faith made by the stranger at the breakfast table of the Flemmings, when he
                  blessed himself in his broad, old-country fashion, and gave vent to his gratitude
                  by invoking the Mother of God to reward his benefactors, produced different
                  effects upon husband and wife. The Elder went away to a quiet little room, where
                  he kept his papers, books, and the farm accounts; a room not fine enough to be
                  called a library, office, or study, but a matter-of-fact sort of a place, where a
                  plain desk, two or three chairs, a tool-chest, some book-shelves, a fowling-piece,
                  and an array of fishing tackle completed the furnishing. The books were sermons,
                  essays, and arguments on Puritanical doctrines; orthodox, quaint and
                  severe—permeated through and through by that anti-catholic spirit which formed one of the
                  integral essences of their creed; books written before the innovation of the newer
                  lights had polished lown its monstrous angularities and sweetened the bitter
                  waters with something of Christian charity; books cherished by the Flemmings for
                  the sound doctrine of them, and for the sort of moral sheet anchor they were to
                  their spiritual life. The Elder closed the door, went to a window, brushed the
                  frost-work from a pane and looked out at the snow, which still fell heavily. He
                  drummed softly on the glass, and his great eyebrows lowered over his eyes, a sure
                  sign that he was perplexed and annoyed. But he never acted hastily; it was his way
                  to look things squarely in the face, to measure and gauge them in length, breadth
                  and depth, before he undertook to cope with them; and there he stood, girding his
                  thoughts together for counsel, when Mrs. Flemming, who left the table almost
                  immediately after him, came in. She did not speak until she got close to him, then
                  laying her hand upon his arm, she said: "Elder!" She had two or three times
                  before, since their marriage, when she thought the gravity of the occasion
                  required, or her own sense of dignity of right demanded it, called him "Elder;" it
                  was a portent which he understood, and when he turned and saw the flushed, and
                  determined countenance lifted to his, he braced himself for battle, for he knew
                  from his religious point of view that she was terribly exercised, and as much
                  alarmed by the presence of the papist that had dropped into their midst, as if a
                  wolf from the Franconia mountains had got into their sheep-fold; nay, more.
               "What is the matter, wife?"
               "You may well ask that, Elder Flemming, after seeing and hearing what happened at
                  the breakfast table with that miserable pedler. That man is a papist. I never saw
                  one before, and hoped I never might; but I've read of them to some purpose."
               "Yes," said the Elder gravely, "he is a papist; there can be no doubt about it,
                  and I am sorry for it."
               "But what are we to do? We cannot have him staying on," she replied, in her quick
                  decided way.
               "We must be patient. There is no help for it," he replied in his quiet tones.
               "Patience in this case were an offence to God. I can have no patience, not the
                  least grain, with an idolatrous papist; and he certainly must not stay under this
                  roof."
               "What would you have me do, wife?" said the Elder, as he turned and faced her, and
                  looked gravely down upon her.
               "I would have you go this instant and bid him leave the house."
               
               "Have you looked out to-day?" he asked in the same even tones.
               "Yes I have looked out, and know that it is snowing as fast as ever—but that is
                  not my business; I will not have that man contaminating my house with his
                  idolatrous breath, and if you want peace under your roof you must send him
                  off."
               "'Won't' and must' are senseless words under certain circumstances," answered the
                  Elder. "Providence sometimes gives us blind work to do, and it is not for us to
                  gainsay the wisdom of it. God knows that I would suffer even death for the
                  integrity of my faith; but in this case, after looking at it in all its bearings,
                  I can come to but one conclusion. I did not make it
                     storm—I did not bid this stranger to my door—the storm arose at
                  the bidding of Him who takes into account the falling of a hair from my head; and
                  this, His creature, let us remember—permitted by His providence—was driven by the
                  violence of the storm to the shelter of my roof; let him therefore be what he may,
                  he shall stay. Why, woman! he would perish in an hour!"
               "But consider, Elder Flemming," responded the little woman, impressed in spite of
                  herself by his simple practical reasoning, "consider what an offence it is to our
                  simple God-fearing faith, to have him flouting his crosses in our very faces, and
                  saying ing his idolatrous prayers to the Virgin Mary. You are not faithful to your
                  christian duty, and your responsibility as an Elder of the Church, to to allow it.
                  Those books, full of sound doctrine, from whose pages we have not only found a
                  safe guide, but learnt the unction of the word, cry out against you!" she added,
                  pointing to the bookshelves.
               "I do not hold with superstitious practices, wife, neither do I love popery," said
                  the Elder, with just a little quaver in his voice; "but neither one nor the other
                  can hurt the integrity of my belief in sound doctrine. But I should feel worthy of
                  condemnation if I turned one of God's creatures from the shelter of my roof in
                  such a storm as this—and I will not do it."
               "Very well. The responsibility be upon your head. I have done my
                  duty; and I tell you, Elder, that there's something lying at my heart which means
                  trouble, and that man is to bring it upon us. I never felt so. I am not used to
                  such things, and it troubles me. You and Reuben can fix up a place somewhere over
                  the kitchen for him to sleep—christian men have slept there before him—and he can
                  take his meals by the kitchen fire whilst we are at ours," said Mrs. Flemming.
               "He shall eat at my table whilst he is my guest. Now, little wife," he said,
                  laying his broad hand kindly upon her
                  shoulder, "would you have me, your husband and a Flemming, lose my self-respect,
                  and offend my conscience, by doing unto others that which I would not they should
                  do unto me? I have never done so yet. It would be against my views of christian
                  hospitality and humanity. No, no!—think better of this, and the time will come
                  when you will be thankful that your husband did not do that which would call a
                  blush to his cheek to his dying day."
               "You ought to blush to your dying day for eating and drinking with a papistical
                  Irishman," she said, giving her head a little toss.
               "Christ ate with publicans and sinners," replied the Elder, in his grave low
                  tones; "and we are but the servants of our Master. In the Book of books He tells
                  us that a cup of cold water given in His name to one of His little ones, and for
                  His sake, is service done unto Himself; He does not say to whom we
                  are to give, whether to Jew or Gentile, but places all the value upon the
                     act done for the love of Him. I am sorry that you have been ruffled,
                  little wife; I would not for my right hand anger you lightly, but the question
                  between us is one that I must settle according to the precepts of the gospel, and
                     not according to the old code, which would have hung that papist
                  for coming within our borders."
               "I do not wish to hang the man; though I don't know that it would be far from
                  wrong to hang idolators, that the poison of their doctrines might not imperil the
                  God-fearing," she said, holding her head very erect; then, knowing how useless it
                  would be to argue the matter further, she turned and left the room to go the round
                  of her endless domestic duties, the first act of which was—as we have seen—to rout
                  the dreamy Reuben from his comfortable seat beside the pedler, to go up with her
                  to the weaving-room, among the yarn hanks—rather a prosy thing to come to, after
                  listening to a rudely eloquent account of a battle on the romantic shores of
                  Spain, for the old pedler had fought under Wellington on the peninsula. Poor
                  Reuben! cobwebs for banners, scaling the loom instead of a rampart, the sharp
                  quick tones of his little mother's voice instead of the sound of clarion and
                  trumpet, dust for the smoke of battle, and the great hanks of blue, grey, and
                  white yarn for bastions and forts; the boy's head was full of the fancy, and he
                  pitched over the heavy, twisted hanks—thinking of the Spaniards all the time—with
                  such vim that his mother cried out: "Reuben! my son, you will bury me under the
                  wool if you don't stop,"—while she looked with a tender, puzzled expression at his
                  flushed, beautiful face; "and besides, you are getting everything in a muss up
                  there; come down." And Reuben came
                  tumbling down through the warp of the loom, breaking about five hundred threads,
                  and to his great astonishment bumping his head as it fell where his feet ought to
                  be, while his feet stuck up helplessly through the broken meshes. "What
                     is he good for?" thought his mother, looking with dismay at the
                  broken threads; "what ever shall we do with him? I intended to begin weaving my
                  carpet this very day!" He was very sorry after he had scrambled loose, and putting
                  his arms tenderly around his mother, promised to mend the mischief he had done,
                  and be more careful hereafter; and his mother, always tender of him, kissed him,
                  smoothed the knob raised on the back of his head and told him that he "was as
                  awkward as a young colt," upon which he laughed, and gathering up the yarn he had
                  pitched down, followed her down stairs.
               Later in the day, the Elder came into the sitting room—the old homestead where we
                  first saw the Flemmings—and saw his guest standing at a window, looking
                  disconsolately out at the pitiless white storm. It was ironing-day, and Eva and
                  Hope were ironing the family linen; rosy, cheerful and happy, they smoothed and
                  folded the spotless garments, their chatter, and laughter, and scraps of song,
                  filling the room with homely but sweet music as they flitted to and from the fire,
                  and from their broad table to the great rack where they hung the fragrant linen to
                  air. Mrs. Flemming was getting dinner, and Reuben was sitting by the kitchen fire,
                  making strenuous exertions to half-sole his boot, by way of being useful; but his
                  long white fingers were in his way; they tangled the thread, and put things out of
                  line, and got punched with the awl and cracked with the hammer so often that he
                  felt like throwing the whole affair into the fire. And so the waif was left alone
                  to his thoughts. Eva and Hope, in the tender womanly pity of their hearts, had
                  spoken now and then to him, and he had replied with a genuine readiness which
                  showed how much inclined he was to be social and friendly; but there was their
                  work to be done, while the thought of his being a papist and a wholesome dread of
                  their mother acted as a sort of moral check-rein on their kindly natures; so he
                  had dropped into silence, and was brooding over the prospect.
               "I am sorry to learn from my son that you have lost your pack," said the Elder
                  kindly.
               "Faith, sir, and I have, I'm afeard; and it's no trifle for a poor man like myself
                  to lose," he said, as he turned and took the chair his host offered him.
               "It may be lying within arm's length of us, Mr.—"
               
               "McCue, Patrick McCue, sir, at your service."
               "We will get shovels presently, Mr. McCue, and turn over the drifts around the
                  door where we found you last night; it may be lying there under the snow. Do you
                  remember having it when you came towards the house?"
               "Yes, sir; yes—surely," said Patrick, brightening up. "It is the last thing I
                  remimber, was seeing the lights and feeling to see if my pack was safe; but I
                  niver see such mountains of snow, and it takes the heart out of me to think how
                  it'll iver be found."
               "Well, we must hope for the best, Mr. McCue; if it is lost, there is your life to
                  be thankful for."
               "That's thrue, sir, thanks be to God and the Blessed Virgin first, thin to
                  yourself, and all of yez," he said fervently. Down dropped the Elder's heavy
                  eyebrows, and his forehead grew red. Must he speak? Would it be a christianly act
                  to rebuke this benighted mortal? Yes, he thought so. Was it not his duty, there
                  before his children, to break a silence that might otherwise seem like
                  pusillanimity, or consent to strange irrational practices? It seemed so to his
                  well balanced judgment; and he asked:
               "What religion are you of, Mr. McCue?"
               "What religion, sir? I'm none of your religions; I'm a Catholic, God Almighty be
                  thanked," said the man, opening wide his dull grey eyes and looking full in the
                  Elder's face.
               "Are you convinced, and firmly persuaded, that what you profess is right, and that
                  it is a faith unto salvation?"
               "No, I'm not convinced, nor persuaded, nor any of that, sir; I KNOW IT; and sorra
                  a bit do I want of any other. If I ever want to turn haythen I'll go to Algiers,
                  where I was once before," exclaimed McCue. "Yes, sir! I'm satisfied for this
                  world, and the next, with the ould faith."
               There was much in this to irritate the Elder's religious ideas; there was, to his
                  thinking, an arrogance, a profanity, and a something in the Irishman's reply,
                  which came very near calling him a heathen, that tried his patience; but he was
                  not one, as we know, to quarrel with a man on his own hearthstone on account of
                  his religion; but the crowning paradox of it all was, the man had said "I'm none
                  of your religions, I'm a Catholic;" accordingly then, to his views, it was an
                  acknowledgment that he (the man) was without religion, the Catholic religion or
                  faith being in his opinion beyond the pale of what he (the Elder) knew as
                  Christianity. What had he then? What was being a Catholic? Was
                     that a religion? He thought not, Catholics being idolaters, and
                  where there was idolatry there could be no religion; then the thought came up before him with a dark splendor
                  like one of Salvator Rosa's pictures, of one "clothed in scarlet, who was drunk
                  with the blood of the saints." But the Elder said nothing of all this to Patrick
                  McCue, who, ignorant as he was in all worldly lore, could have enlightened him
                  upon many points on which he deemed him ignorant, and might perhaps have used his
                  fists by way of emphasis, as is an Irishman's way when his holy faith is insulted.
                  So the Elder, in his grave and gentle voice, only said:
               "The grace of God is sufficient for all men, and I pray that He may open your eyes
                  to the truth as it is in Christ. I mean no offence, friend, but we are a simple,
                  God-fearing family, serving Him in spirit and taking no account of outward
                  observances and signs; and while you tarry with us, which you are heartily welcome
                  to do until the roads are safe, you will be doing us a favor if you will omit
                  making the signs over yourself that you did this morning at the table."
               "And is it the sign of the Cross?" cried Patrick McCue, staring with wide open
                  eyes. "Why, man alive! I always blesses myself before and after meat, and I'd be
                  an ill-mannered cur not to, surely."
               "It is an offence to us, such practices," said the Elder; "and I do not think it
                  too much to ask you to omit them while under my roof, at least at my table."
               "Sir," flamed out Patrick McCue, "and do you think I'd be ashamed of the blessed
                  cross of Christ, if the whole world stood forenent me? I, that was redeemed by it,
                  baptized by it, and expects to make the sign of it with the last life that's left
                  in my fingers. Let the Jews that crucified Him, and them that houlds with them, be
                  offinded, but sorra a bit of a Jew, or a black bitther Protestant, is Patrick
                  McCue; and, sir, with many thanks for your kindness, I'll be off at the risk of my
                  life in the snow, sooner than stay where I daren't make the sign of the
                  Cross."
               And Patrick McCue got up, buttoned up his rough coat to the chin, and was about
                  putting on his fur cap, when the Elder laid his hand upon his shoulder and began
                  to speak: "Sit down, sit down. No man ever left my house in a passion or in a
                  storm. There must be sincerity in your error, or you would not be so ready to die
                  for it. Such doings are strange to us, but you are my guest, and hospitality was
                  always something sacred with the Flemmings. I have done my duty before God and my
                  children in protesting against what I consider idolatrous; but while you remain
                  here, the subject shall not be renewed." Then the Elder could not, for the life of
                  him, help wondering if "after all it was
                  a very rank error, or even idolatrous for a christian to make upon
                  his body the sign of that cross upon which the Son of God paid such an infinite
                  price for his salvation; but he only said: "I will go and fetch the snow-shovels,
                  and we will search for your pack;" while Patrick McCue thought: "Well, and surely
                  this bates Bannagher! first to find myself somewhere away at the North Pole, and
                  kilt among the snow-drifts, then to be tould that I'm little better than a pagan,
                  and mustn't bless myself; and the man with sich a straight, kind face on him all
                  the time. Sorra a bit if I know whether he's poking fun at me or not, it seems so
                  out-and-out foolish; and if he's in airnest, bedad! but he's the most benighted
                  man I ever met this side the Algerines."
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               HOW THE DAY PASSED, AND HOW IT ENDED.
               ELDER FLEMMING came in with snow-shovels and gave one to Patrick McCue, and they
                  went out to search among the drifts for the missing pack. Nearly up to their
                  shoulders in snow, they worked with a will, clearing a space around the door and a
                  few rods beyond, without success, until the Irishman man, much of whose life had
                  been spent in warm, sunny latitudes, felt disheartened and benumbed, and would
                  have given up the search and gone back to the fire; but the sight of Flemming,
                  whose face was ruddy with exercise, who worked on, plying his shovel vigorously
                  while he tossed the great drifts aside as lightly as a ship tosses the white foam
                  from her track on the seas, made him ashamed, and he bent his will to his
                  shivering hands, pitching off the snow here and there as well as he could, seeing
                  that he was cold and nearly out of breath—when suddenly, just when Flemming
                  himself began to think the search useless, there lay the pack under a drift he had
                  finished shovelling off, just where the broad flagged footway bordered with myrtle
                  turned in from the road—its leather casing still frozen, but otherwise uninjured.
                  Patrick McCue was overjoyed, and would have poured out his thanks on the spot in
                  voluble eloquence and pious invocations, but the Elder hurried in to avoid hearing
                  them. "He had done his duty," he thought, in helping the man to recover his pack,
                  but that involved no obligation on him to listen to his idle and superstitious
                  prayers." He told Reuben to show Patrick McCue his sleeping place to stow his pack
                  in, and Reuben turned to his mother to know where it ought to be, who briefly
                  said: "Over father's work-room;" and thither they went. It was a good enough nook, furnished with a cot, one
                  or two chairs, a table on which lay a Bible, and an old spider-legged washstand,
                  with cracked basin and pitcher—but comfortless looking and bare. However, this did
                  not disturb Patrick, who was thankful to have a place to himself, since with the
                  quick perception of his nature he had come to feel himself unwelcome, and his
                  religion abhorred. Here, at least, he could bless himself in the name of the Holy
                  Trinity, knowing it to be a sign of his belief in a crucified God, whose passion
                  and death it kept him reminded of, and nourished in his soul the divine virtues of
                  Faith, Hope, and Charity; Faith, by the belief it signified in the death of the
                  Son of God for his salvation; Hope, nourished and increased by this belief;
                  Charity, or the love of God, excited by the sacred sign which represented to him
                  the love which God showed mankind by dying on the cross for him. No wonder Patrick
                  McCue made much of the sign of the cross, and was ready to brave peril and death
                  for its sake; no wonder he was glad to be where he could bless himself to his
                  heart's content, and ask the intercession of the Blessed Virgin and the saints,
                  and say his beads, and pray after his own fashion for the benighted souls who had
                  taken him in from perishing in the snow, without let or hindrance; and pray for
                  their conversion he would to the day of his death, "for," he reasoned, "they've
                  done more than give me a cup of cold water for the love of God, though mebbe they
                  don't know it; and it is unknownst that He ever let sich like actions fall to the
                  ground unnoticed. Any way, I'll say my rosary for them, morn and night, though
                  faith! it does seem like thrying to move a mountain to pray for their conversion;
                  but there's nothing like thrying, and if my faith's no bigger than a millet-seed,
                  I'll trust to the Blessed Virgin and the saints to make up what I lack." All these
                  thoughts passed through Patrick McCue's mind while he was unstrapping his pack,
                  never uttering a word but tugging away at the straps and buckles, and unlocking
                  the padlocks at each end, until finally he opened it, Reuben looking on with all
                  the natural curiosity of a boy, to see what would come of it. The pedler thrust
                  his hand into the depths of the pack and drew out a small crimson-covered book,
                  blazoned with gilt, and altogether dazzling, which he gave with a beaming smile to
                  Reuben, saying: Faith! it's the very one I was looking afther; and do you take it,
                  my lad, for a bit of a keepsake. It's the poems of my countryman, Tommy Moore, and
                  you'll find the beautifullest things in it that'll do to pray by, to swear by, or
                  love by; for you must know he's got some sacred songs there that 'ud melt the sowl
                  of you; and some of the stirringest est
                  ditties about ould Ireland, that rouses the blood agin the Sassenach till it's
                  like to boil over; and the love songs, honey, bate Bannagher—rale genuine
                  poetry—take it, my lad, with a hearty welcome." And Patrick McCue thrust it into
                  Reuben's willing hand, who could have fallen upon his neck and kissed him out of
                  gratitude for a new book; but after the first glow there fell a sudden shame upon
                  him, and he said: "I have never been used to taking gifts: my father will give me
                  money to buy it of you if I ask him, but I thank you, sir, indeed I do."
               "There's no money could buy that book my lad, afther I've offered it as a free
                  gift; and if you don't take it, I'll make short work of it by putting it into the
                  hottest place I can find under the logs down there," said Patrick McCue, buckling
                  up his pack with an irate sparkle in his dull eyes. "Where I came from it's not
                  the way, bedad, to slap a man in the face with a gift offered out of gratitude, as
                  if he was a beggar, too mean and too poor to be noticed." Then Reuben, so delicate
                  in all his perceptions, felt another sort of shame, for he saw that he had wounded
                  the heart of one who, under heavy obligations to them all, had sought in this
                  spontaneous sort of a way to show his gratitude; and he said: "I am glad to have
                  the book Mr. McCue, only I was afraid I might be robbing you; but I'll take it
                  with many thanks, and keep it for your sake." Then Reuben opened the book at
                  "Paradise and the Peri;" his greedy eyes devoured the verses, while his
                  imagination and heart, dazzled and glowing, felt as if under a spell of
                  enchantment; his golden hair fell over his flushed cheeks, his dreamy eyes flashed
                  and his heart swelled with great pulses of delight while he read; indeed he clean
                  forgot Patrick McCue and everything else. until suddenly his vision of delight was
                  dispelled by his mother's voice calling them with rather a sharp accent to come to
                  dinner; then he thanked the pedler again in his warm, boyish fashion, and put the
                  book in his pocket, feeling richer in its possession than if some one had given
                  him a string of diamonds. "I knew you'd like it," said Patrick, with a kindly
                  smile; and they went down to dinner.
               Mrs. Flemming felt it to be a fiery ordeal to sit at the table with the Irish
                  pedler; and when he blessed himself, after the Elder's lengthy and sonorous grace,
                  she winced and snapped her eyes as if hot iron had touched her flesh, but said
                  nothing. Then the Elder began to ask him some questions about Boston, which
                  neither he nor any of his family had ever visited, it being a hundred miles
                  distant, and in those days the facilities for travelling were few, and at the best
                  difficult as well as dangerous, so that prudent and timid men were deterred from attempting the journey; but Patrick
                  could give him but little information about this famous New England city, except
                  that he was arrested, fined and put in prison, and not treated too kindly there,
                  "for just taking a suck at his pipe on Sunday evening, coming from Vespers, and
                  was troubling nobody at all wid the smoke of it, being in the open street; 'bating
                  that, it seemed to be a flourishing sort of a town, but it looked small to him
                  just landed from Dublin, where the English sogers, bad as they be, lets a fellow
                  smoke his dudheen day in and day out without
                  molesting him.
               This was not very satisfactory about Boston to any one except Mrs. Flemming, who,
                  although she did not say so, was delighted that the pedler had been made to suffer
                  for breaking the Sabbath, and thought Boston must be a most godly place. Then some
                  one asked him about his voyage across the seas, and the Elder wanted to know
                  something about the vine-growing in France; and Patrick McCue, who had travelled
                  here and there with his eyes wide open, gave such pleasant accounts of it all,
                  mixed up with strange and perilous adventures, and now and then such racy
                  descriptions of his own blunders, that two or three times a peal of hearty
                  laughter ran around the board; and Mrs. Flemming, even while she knitted her brows
                  to pretend she was neither interested or amused, wished to herself that "Nicholas
                  were there to enjoy it all." Eva and Hope were enchanted; it was all new to them,
                  this free and easy way of telling things they had been dreaming of all their
                  lives, and only thought of as they did of the possibilities of the moon, as
                  mythical and unattainable; and they were sorry when there was no more pumpkin pie
                  to be eaten, for no excuse was sufficient in this systematic puritan family to
                  linger around the table when a meal was finished; so with the glamour of Patrick
                  McCue's adventures, like a new atmosphere around them, they rose from their
                  chairs, standing while their father "returned thanks" and the Irishman made
                  devoutly the blessed sign of the cross upon himself, which gave them all a
                  sensation like the sudden discharge of a pail of cold water in their faces. But he
                  was nothing daunted; it was as natural to the spiritual life of him to make this
                  blessed sign as it was to his natural life to breathe, and he could not for the
                  soul of him understand how any rational being, who was not a heathen, could object
                  to a symbol which meant so much. But he sat down with Mr. Flemming, and smoked
                  with him, and fell back into the conversation which was interrupted by their
                  rising from the table; and later, when the Elder went away to his "workroom," and
                  Mrs. Flemming started to go to look after the calf, and its mother, whose udder over-full made her low complainingly,
                  he began to tell the girls about the dances of the Spanish peasants, and a
                  bull-fight he saw in Seville.
               "I say, mother," called the Elder, who saw the little woman flit past his door,
                  "let me go; it is very cold. Go back to the fire."
               "Tut," she replied, coming in for a moment, "I'm not so old or thin-blooded,
                  father, that I can't attend to my own business, and all under shelter too. I'm
                  warm enough." So she was, for the ferment of her blood over the papistical ways of
                  Patrick McCue had not yet cooled off.
               "I spoke to the man about his doings," began Flemming.
               "I wonder now!" exclaimed she.
               "I did indeed, mother; not offensively, mind you; but I did. I told him that his
                  cross, and praying to the saints, was an offence to the simplicity of our
                  religion, and asked him to refrain from such usage while with us."
               "I thought you couldn't stand it, father, any more than I," she said approvingly.
                  "And what lid he say?"
               "He got up, when he understood what I meant, buttoned up his coat and put on his
                  hat, and was about going out into the storm, 'for,' he said, 'rather than stay
                  under a roof where he dare not make the sign of the cross upon him, he'd try his
                  chances in the snow; and if he perished God would be merciful to him;' and he was
                  going, mother—going, remember, to his death; but I held him back, seeing his
                  sincerity in being ready to perish for what he thought was right, and told him to
                  stay and welcome, that his conscience should not be interfered with again."
               "That was manful of him, father, to say the least of it," said Mrs. Flemming after
                  a thoughtful pause. "It beats me, though, that a man should be ready to die for so
                  small a thing as that."
               "It seems so at first thought; but as he sees it—mind, mother, as he
                  sees it—he would have felt guilty of denying his whole Faith, of which the cross
                  is a symbol, by putting it under foot at any man's bidding. I am ashamed to have
                  asked him.
               "Land's sake's, father, what may that be? Listen now! The man must be singing;
                  singing some of his ungodly songs there, where the Word has been read, and the
                  hymns of Zion have been sung for more than a hundred years; and now—I wonder!
                  there's a jingle like sleigh-bells keeping time. Hope and Eva shall come away,"
                  exclaimed Mrs. Flemming, a move towards the door to call them; but Flemming laid
                  his hand upon her shoulder and detained her, saying: "Let them be, mother; let
                  them be. The young and unregenerate rate
                  are always fond of novelties, and we must be wary how we go about pulling up the
                  tares, lest we pull up good wheat with them. They are good children, according to
                  the natural law, and a little harmless amusement won't harm them."
               "Ah, father! no wonder that people say you are wanting in orthodox discipline in
                  your over-indulgence of your children. It wasn't so in my young days.
                  But I can't stay here another minute; that cow is needing me," said Mrs. Flemming,
                  in tones of reproof.
               Yes, it was Patrick McCue, singing. Feeling more genial after the bull-fight, he
                  began to tell Hope and Eva about the Spanish muleteers, and ended by singing a
                  muleteer song while he accompanied himself by softly jingling the tongs against
                  the brass globe of the andirons, in such good time and with such light touches
                  that the girls almost imagined themselves on some romantic slope of the Sierra
                  Nevada, listening to the bells of the mules and the songs of their leader as they
                  wound their way among the mountain passes, far above the blue waters of the
                  Guadalquiver. It was a treat to these isolated young things, a novelty so
                  enjoyable, to hear the music and language of other lands sung in a clear flexible
                  tenor which was melody itself, that they forgot everything—even Bunyan's picture
                  of the Pope sitting at the door of a cave, with bones and skulls strewn around,
                  watching like an ogre for unwary pilgrims, to devour them body and soul—and asked
                  for more, and yet more, until the old black rafters rang again with the songs of
                  old; they forgot their wholesome dread of displeasing their little mother; they
                  forgot Patrick McCue's homely face and red head, his superstitions and idolatries,
                  while his voice, like one of those exquisitely toned old Straduarius violins,
                  uncultivated but rarely sweet, melted into some of the ballads of his own Emerald
                  Isle, which he sang with such pathos that the sewing dropped from their fingers
                  moistened with tears. In the midst of it all, a sudden illumination glorified the
                  room: a sharp bright gleam of sunlight burst through the western window—the
                  prison-gates were open, and the golden gleams swept through broken bars of cloud,
                  fringing the black overhanging edges above with brilliance, and crowning the
                  snow-clad mountain peaks with diadems of iridescent light, and their slopes with a
                  tissue of spangled silver: while the scattered snow-flakes, large and fleecy, that
                  fell slowly here and there, gemmed and reddened by the setting sun, floated in the
                  air like the torn plumage of some tropical bird swept captive by the storm-winds
                  from her nest in the nutmeg trees of the Orient. With a joyous cry Eva and Hope sprang to the window, while
                  Patrick McCue hailed the sunset splendors as a sign of promise and home.
               The night was cloudless, and the distant ridges and crests, the far-off peaks and
                  boulders, the nearer slopes of the mountains, all glistening in robes of crystal
                  as the full moon anointed them with silvery chrisms, rose silent and beautiful
                  beneath the spangled heavens, while Orion, glittering in full armor, seemed to
                  rest his jewelled sandals upon their heads. There was no human sound to disturb
                  this grand repose, only a low quivering chime rang out now and then, whenever the
                  wind soughed through the glittering ice-covered trees of the forest belts, smiting
                  them like cymbals with a soft clash together. But presently a confused sound of
                  voices, full of lusty cheer, intermingled with chorus and huzza, was heard in the
                  distance, drawing nearer and nearer towards the "Old Homestead," and before long
                  the cause appeared. The young men of the country-side, led by Nicholas Flemming
                  and John Wilde, were out with their ox-teams, their heavy sleighs, and
                  snow-shovels, breaking the road by moonlight, and when they got in sight of the
                  lights gleaming through door and window of the "Old Homestead," their cheers rang
                  out loud and clear on the night, while the panting oxen and tired horses, scenting
                  the well-filled racks, put forth all their sinewy strength to get to them. Mrs.
                  Flemming was soon clasped in the arms of her great broad-shouldered son, who,
                  "bearded like a pard," lifted his little mother up and kissed her fondly, while
                  she whispered: "Thank God that you are safe, Nicholas; I have had an uneasy time
                  about you."
               "And I up there at the Deacon's, having the best time I ever had in my life," he
                  said laughing, as he put her down to kiss his sisters, shake hands with his
                  father, and pull Reuben's golden hair: then all of a sudden he saw Patrick McCue
                  and he exclaimed: "Hilloa, you here! I thought the wolves had eaten
                  you, my friend;" while he shook him heartily by the hand.
               "And I'm sure, sir, after we crossed each other up yonder last night, I never
                  expected to see you alive again; but you see how things come together. Almighty
                  God was holding you in safe keeping, your people here saved my life; may the
                  Blessed Mother of God reward them," answered the irrepressible Patrick, with
                  beaming countenance.
               "Hilloa! The what——? but never mind, it's a free country. Mother, get us some
                  supper. John Wilde don't want any; but I'm hungry enough, I can tell you." John
                  Wilde and Hope were standing apart, he still holding the hand she had held out to
                  welcome him, whispering words to each other that brought a softer light into their eyes and kindled
                  a warmer glow upon their cheeks, for they were betrothed lovers.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               PATRICK McCUE'S KEEPSAKES.
               THE table was soon spread with a generous and plentiful meal; for except the
                  salaratus which the New England house-wives will poison their bread and pastries
                  with, there are no people in the world who understand better what the art of
                  cooking and the spreading of a hospitable table means. On this occasion there were
                  two cold roast fowls, a dish of savory flitches of bacon just fried to a turn;
                  there were mince and pumpkin pies, home-made cheese, preserves, pickles, white
                  biscuits, doughnuts, and two or three large loaves of bread, flanked by tankards
                  of cider and plates piled up with great rosy apples and nuts; while the roaring
                  fire cast its ruddy light like a broad smile of welcome over it all; and the young
                  stalwart farmers, with laugh and jest, drew round the board, and after "Thanks"
                  were offered by the Elder, fell to like hungry kites, doing ample justice to the
                  inviting fare, while Mrs. Flemming flitted around, attending with complacent cent
                  happiness to the needs of all; for the little woman dearly loved an occasion like
                  this, when she could demonstrate her domestic superiority by showing that however
                  sudden the emergency her well supplied and well-filled larder could bear the
                  strain. Hope and John Wilde sat beside each other, quietly happy; and Eva, who was
                  thought to be something of a flirt in the country-side, entertained two or three
                  of her shy admirers on the opposite side of the table. But Patrick McCue by little
                  and little became the life of the company. Some of the youngsters, seeing that he
                  was a dull-looking fellow, began to chaff him, but the New Hampshire flints struck
                  such fire out of his Irish wit that he completely turned the laugh on the other
                  side, and kept up the fun to the great delight of them all. It was late when they
                  left the table, long past the usual bedtime, but they sat in merry groups around,
                  talking over their bear-hunts and other adventures, until Mrs. Flemming, assisted
                  by her daughters, cleared away the fragments of the feast and placed everything in
                  perfect order, leaving only the Elder's table, upon which lay open the old family
                  Bible, in the centre of the room. Patrick McCue was in the corner of the room next
                  to the fire, in a high chat with Nicholas and Eva; Mrs. Flemming was seated, at
                  last, in her quaint old chair; and Hope, with John Wilde and Reuben, were sitting near her, while a cheerful hum of
                  voices filled the room. Suddenly the Elder cleared his throat, and going to his
                  table, sat down, and a deep silence fell upon them all, which was at last broken
                  by his grave level tones, as he read the fourth chapter of the fourth book of
                  Kings, and Patrick McCue found himself in the midst of family prayers. He would
                  have slipped off to bed if he had known what was coming, and said the dear old
                  comforting prayers of his Faith; but he was fairly cornered, and listened to the
                  narrative of the miraculous things done by the prophet of God, not as to a far-off
                  tale of dreamland, or cloudland, never to be realized on earth; for he knew that
                  Almighty God had never ceased working miracles as great as these, by the hands of
                  His saints, down to the present time; his Faith was a living, deathless faith;
                  neither torpid or sleeping and full of anxious, fitful dreams; and it seemed as
                  natural to him to hear the wondeful story of Elisius, and the Sunamitess, as if he
                  had been there and seen it all. He sat and listened, gravely twirling his thumbs
                  over each other, benignly thankful that his entertainers were not the pagans he
                  took them to be; when the first lines of a familiar hymn being given out, they all
                  sang together, old and young, and Patrick thought it sounded pleasantly, all those
                  full round voices swelling out in devotional harmony to one of the old quaint
                  puritan airs; and if he had only been out of it he would have enjoyed it yet
                  more—for the man had a fine natural ear for music—but he was caught, and couldn't
                  tell fairly what to do with himself, until they all knelt down, then he drew out
                  his rosary, composed of large black beads strung on a brass wire, to which was
                  suspended a brass crucifix some four inches long; the jingle as he took the beads
                  from his breast pocket made Eva start round, and she saw him bless himself
                  reverently with the crucifix, then kiss it, after which his lips moved in an
                  earnest fashion while he slipped bead after bead through his fingers, all to her
                  own distraction and the confusion of Nicholas, who also saw him and thought him
                  crazy. The next morning, about ten o'clock, the young men were to start with the
                  teams and sleds on their road-breaking mission, to unite with other parties for
                  the same purpose, and thought they might possibly get as far as Centre Harbor.
                  Patrick McCue was going with them, and Mrs. Flemming thankful to him for going;
                  and with a womanly sort of pity for the lone stranger who had sat on her
                  hearthstone, but without the faintest relenting towards the superstitious and
                  papistical side of him, packed a basket with provisions, not forgetting a bottle
                  of their best cider, which would have put to shame the brightest Cliquot by its
                  sparkle, and gave it into the care of
                  Nicholas with the strict charges to give it to him on the way, for she did not
                  want to be thanked for it. She shook hands with him; and "wished him well," the
                  Elder shook hands, so did Reuben and the girls, to whom he whispered: "God bless
                  the winsome face of yez; may the saints hould yez in their keeping, for your
                  kindness to a homeless stranger. You'll find a picture, and a little image of the
                  blessed Blessed Lady, up where I slept; and may she bring yez both into the fold
                  of her Son." No one heard what he said except the sisters, and it was like Greek
                  to them, so far as his meaning went; then the waif of the storm, the
                  simple-minded, uneducated, unpolished Irish pedler, with his pack over his round
                  shoulderes, went his way, leaving what? Little brown sparrows sometimes, in
                  flying, drop from their bills a rare seed, which, falling into the earth,
                  germinates and grows into strength and beauty, covering with vines, blossoms,
                  leaves and fruits some ruined wall or blasted tree, affording shade and
                  refreshment to the noonday traveller and shelter for the song-birds at night; the
                  wind goes on its mission wafting earthward the germs of mighty trees, which in
                  time cast broad shadows on the mountain sides, or stretch their wide boughs over
                  the peaceful brown homes in the valley; man's mission is more mighty still, for
                  Almighty God in His own wise designs sometimes makes use of the ignorant and
                  humble as messengers of His will, as prophets of His coming, to plant the seed of
                  His word in desert places, to make them blossom as the rose.
               When the Elder went into his workroom, after the departure of the young men, to
                  see about mending the double sleigh harness, he saw a neatly wrapped package lying
                  on his desk. He took it up and saw that it was addressed to "Mister Flemming, from
                  his grateful friend, Patrick McCue;" then he snapped the string, opened the
                  wrapper, and found a book neatly bound in leather; and turning to the title-page,
                  he read: "The End of Religious Controversy; by a Catholic Divine."*
                   A flush mounted to his face and he closed the book with a snap, and
                  lifting the lid of his desk, threw it in, thinking: "To waste time over the pages
                  of such a book as that would be not only idle, but culpable. He would some day
                  wrap it up, direct it to Patrick McCue, and send it to Boston by the first person
                  he heard of going there." Then he went about his harness-mending and forgot all
                  about it.
               
                  
                  *Millner's End of Controversy.
               
               Mrs. Flemming, who was busy over her churn, sent Hope and Eva "to take the
                  bedclothes off the cot the Irishman had slept in the night before, to fold the comforts and blankets and put them in the
                  press, and throw the sheets and pillow-case among the soiled house linen; then
                  lock the door, as she had no use for the room."
               Full of curiosity to see what Patrick McCue meant when he bade them good-by, Hope
                  and Eva lost no time but ran up stairs, and on entering the room the first object
                  that greeted their sight, standing upon the Bible where he had placed it, was a
                  plaster cast, about a foot high, of the Blessed Virgin holding in her arms her
                  divine Son, and lying near her feet was a picture of the Crucifixion, in which she
                  was represented standing by His Cross, bearing with Him the bitter passion and
                  pain she could neither soothe or avert. It was a high-colored, badly executed
                  print, but it told the story with a graphic power which could not be
                  misunderstood. This then was the "image" for Hope, and that the "picter" for Eva.
                  They did not then comprehend whom the "image" represented; they thought it might
                  be some poet-sculptor's idea of "Charity," or "Peace," or "Maternal Love," but
                  whatever it might mean, it was beautiful in its holy expression of serene peace.
                  But the picture thrilled them through; it was the first one of the kind they had
                  ever seen, and although they had read and heard of the Crucifixion ever since they
                  could remember, it never seemed to them such a reality as now—while they stood,
                  Eva's head leaning on Hope's shoulder, gazing upon it.
               "Only think, Hope," said Eva in a low voice, which had something of her father's
                  tone in it; "only think of her being there, close beside Him, seeing all that was
                  done and not able to give Him a drop of cold water, or even wipe the sweat and
                  blood from His face."
               "Whom do you mean, Eva? Who is it do you think?" asked Hope slowly.
               "Don't you see, that must be Mary, the Mother of Jesus, standing there, for we
                  read in the Bible that "she stood by the Cross;" but oh, Hope! how
                  could she bear it; for was she not human like ourselves?" Ah yes! they could
                  understand this much because it appealed strongly to their womanly sympathies, but
                  the rest was a sealed book to these fair Puritan maidens, and the time not yet at
                  hand when "out of many hearts thoughts should be revealed" to them.
               "I think," said Hope at last: that we had better finish up and get back to our
                  sewing. It seems to me that you might keep the picture. I see no harm in it,
                  although I fear that mother, if she knew of them, would think both these were
                  "graven images," and destroy them; but she never comes here, and there's no use in
                  fretting her by letting her know. I will leave the image here; it can hurt no one, and it is certainly very pretty. I
                  should like to put it in the 'best room,' but imagine the excitement that would
                  come of it," said Hope with a little laugh.
               "Yes! I can see old Father Ray peering at it over his big horn spectacles, and our
                  little mother on tiptoe with righteous anger, for of course she would take it for
                  granted that it was some idolatrous Romish image, just because Patrick McCue left
                  it here," said Eva laughing, while she and her sister folded the comforts and
                  quilts. "I shall put the picture between the leaves of my Bible; as you say, Hope,
                  it can't hurt me; indeed I think it will do me good whenever I see it, for it
                  brings that sorrowful scene on Calvary so plainly before me, and makes it seem so
                  real, that I can almost imagine I saw it all. I tell you, Hope, that all Father
                  Ray's preaching from now until doomsday could not give me such thoughts as that
                  picture does."
               "How strange that a papist should care enough about our Saviour to have a picture
                  like that," said Hope; "for you know, Eva, that in John Bunyan's book he says that
                  the Pope of Rome is Antichrist; but I suppose the man bought it with other things
                  to sell again."
               "It is very likely. No, I don't think he knows much about the plan of salvation,
                  for instead of listening tening to father's solemn prayer last night, he hauled
                  out a great string of black beads and made that sign on himself again, then began
                  whispering to himself while he counted them one by one; indeed he did, Hope, and
                  Nicholas laughed as if it was great fun. Any way, I'm glad he's gone, and more
                  than glad to have the picture. But, Hope, why does mother never come here? I never
                  heard that before."
               "I'll tell you, Eva, because you might some day or other ask mother, and that
                  would never do. I never heard her say anything about it; but old Sarah Gill, who
                  used to live here when we were little things, to help, told me all about it one
                  day when I went to read to her. One night an old Indian squaw, who had been in the
                  habit of coming here to beg, was taken in out of a storm, pretty much as the
                  pedler was, only she was ill, and died that night in this room. Mother was leaning
                  over her, doing all she could to soothe and make her more comfortable, when all at
                  once she screamed, and fastening her long bony fingers around mother's throat,
                  sprang out of bed, and they both fell together on the floor. When Sarah Gill, who
                  had gone down for mustard and hot water, was coming up with them, she heard the
                  terrible cry; and hurrying in, found mother nearly suffocated and the squaw stark
                  dead, lying across her, with fingers
                  still clutching her throat. It was some time before he revived, and has never
                  entered this room since. You must take care and never speak of it before her, for
                  Sarah Gill says that it always gave her a dreadful nervous turn whenever father or
                  she referred to it; and she finally told them both never to speak of it in her
                  presence again, or before the children, as she wished it to be entirely
                  forgotten."
               "Poor little mother! It was frightful; no wonder she can't bear the sight of an
                  Indian, and avoids this room. Did you ever hear that it was haunted, Hope?" asked
                  Eva.
               "What nonsense, Eva! I thought you had more sense than that. Such a question is
                  worthy of Sarah Gill, who hears death-watches, and believes in signs and witches.
                  No! There is nothing to dread here except the thought of the dreadful thing that
                  happened here long years ago, when God was so merciful as to save our mother,
                  alive, out of the deadly clutch of a poor delirious wretch who was not conscious
                  of what she was doing and had always loved her with the fidelity and humbleness of
                  a dog."
               "It was dreadful. But I guess we had better go now. I shall be careful never to
                  give a hint to mother about this; but indeed, Hope, it makes me shiver to think of
                  it," said Eva, as they went out, locking the door after them; and having put away
                  the comforts and quilts, they ran lightly down stairs and were soon chatting
                  merrily over their sewing, about the grand sleighride they expected to have as
                  soon as Nicholas and John Wilde came back. They were not conscious of the little
                  seed dropped into the virgin soil of their hearts by the soft wind that had
                  breathed over them; but it was nestling there invisibly, cumbering nothing, so
                  light was it, and giving them no uneasiness by its presence; but by-and-by it
                  would begin to send out its fibres, and spring into beautiful life.
               Cold weather now set steadily in; such cold as people who live in southern lands
                  can scarcely imagine. The roads, hard packed with frozen snow, were as smooth as
                  polished marble; and over them from morning until night, from night sometimes
                  until morning, gay cutters and large double sleighs filled with young people rosy
                  with health and life, and old people whose cheeks wore the bloom of a winter
                  apple, and children shouting and laughing with glee, skimmed here and there, up
                  and down the country, to the jingle of numberless bells, which tinkled far and
                  near in scales of sweet-sounding notes. It was the gay season of the sedate
                  puritan neighborhood, and much visiting was done, much tea was drunk, and warm
                  hospitalities exchanged. Of course there was gossip, and scandal, and matchmaking,
                  and even merry-making, and heart-burnings
                  ings, and envyings, and petty jealousies; besides a great deal of solemn talk
                  amongst the old "members" about religious matters; then the stranger who had been
                  weather-bound at the Flemmings' was turned over, and much indignation expressed
                  that a papist should have abode among the godly after which followed a discussion
                  on the dangers of popery; then more than one or two disparaging hints were thrown
                  out against Elder Flemming for giving the man hospitality; "if he must needs take
                  him," said they, "the barn was a good enough place for such a character, and not
                  the sacred hearthstone where the righteous have sat for more than a century; then
                  some of them thought the Elder cherished "peculiar views," and wondered at the
                  loose reign he held over his children, at whose vanities he winked, even allowing
                  them to dance to the "sound of the viol" in the assemblies of the wicked;
                  concluding with: "there is something unsound at the core,"—meaning him. And there
                  was no want of kindness among them; they thought they were serving God, and
                  vigilant in His service when they sat in judgment on their brethren's shortcomings
                  or actual transgressions; they imagined they knew what self-righteousness meant,
                  without dreaming that they were clothed in it as with a garment; and they firmly
                  believed that their first duty to God and man was to cherish and defend everything
                  in their religion in the sternest way against popery, their views of which were as
                  antithetical to the real thing as darkness is to light. This was the rallying
                  point where all agreed the forlorn hope which kept them from wildly scattering,
                  and straying into open infidelity; the enem which kept them vigilant, and alert,
                  and concentrated; at times, when stranded among the bewildering rocks of the right
                  of "private interpretation," each one felt authorized to set up new doctrinal
                  lights, until there was danger of their being lost in utter darkness. So when
                  these offshoot sects of the old Puritan tree disagreed in all things else, they
                  shook hands over the "downfall of the Pope" and buried the tomahawk.
               Up and down through the wild, glorious scenery of this region, with the sun
                  sprinkling millions of lesser suns on ice-crowned peak and snow-draped mountain,
                  skimmed the fleet sleighs; and many a poor half-famished family received gifts as
                  they stopped a moment in front of their brown huts—such gifts as a fat turkey, or
                  a joint, or a basket of pies, and other substantial things which fed the hungry
                  and sent the little ones to bed happy and warm. They generally looked close at the
                  main chance, but on the whole were as humane and kindly of heart as most people,
                  fulfilling all the duties of the natural laws with scrupulous fidelity, but as ignorant of the truth as revealed to His
                  Church by Jesus Christ, as are the dwellers in Hindostanee or Central Africa.
               But nothing of this disturbed the sedate carnival-time of our puritan friends,
                  along the lake shore and up the mountain slopes stretching back from its frozen
                  waters. Eva, Hope, Nicholas, Reuben and John Wilde, in the double sleigh, drawn by
                  four horses decorated with fringes and bells; snugly tucked in with Canadian
                  blankets and covered with buffalo robes, whirled up with gay clangor to Deacon
                  Snethen's, lifted Huldah, who was expecting them, into the midst of them,
                  smothering her laughter under the soft furry mantle that Nicholas threw around
                  her; then sped, swiftly as any swallow could fly, along the up-country road,
                  singing chatting and laughing by turns, enjoying the ecstatic aerial motion, and
                  the prospect of a good supper at John Wilde's mother's and a quiet home-dance
                  after it, with such wholesome and delightful anticipations of pleasure as it is
                  the privilege and happiness of the young and innocent to enjoy.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE INNER LIFE OF WOLFERT FLEMMING.
               NEVER shone the sun on a scene more grand or beautiful! Covered to a depth of four
                  or five feet with snow, which in some places where it had drifted lapped in great
                  folds and ridges, in graceful curves and furrows of unsullied white, the mountains
                  from Ossipee to Belknap, from "Whiteface" to "Red Hill;" and rising beyond these,
                  the chain stretching northward, whose peaks could be seen like jeweled crests
                  flashing in the sunlight, looked as if fashioned by giants out of alabaster, so
                  transparent and aerial did they appear through the crisp dazzling atmosphere, so
                  gracefully did the long blue shadows sweep down their sides like the folds of
                  royal robes bordered with ermine, so softly waved the green plumes of the pines
                  clustered with ice-gems; while the beautiful Lake with its romantic indentations,
                  and isles set like jewels on its bosom, lay gleaming in the sunshine, a level sea
                  of crystal, its murmuring waters holding gay revel beneath their roofing of
                  ice.
               This region was not thickly settled; the noisy clangor of modern progress had not
                  yet disturbed its grand solitudes; the fiery dragon of iron and steam, with his
                  jar, and power, and discordant roar, had
                  not yet sent the echoes thrilling back with affrighted shrieks to their romantic
                  caves, or made the earth tremble and quiver as with the shock of the last trumpet;
                  no steamboat had then fretted the fair waters of Winnipiseogee; no, forty years
                  ago if any of the old sachems had come from the "setting sun" to revisit the
                  scenes where they had roamed at will, the "monarchs of all they surveyed," they
                  would have seen but few changes. Farm houses with cultivated fields about them, a
                  small hamlet or two near the borders of the lake, brown cottages nestling between
                  the slopes, a windmill here and there, and the meeting-house as near the centre of
                  the scattered neighborhood as it could be located, were the only changes the
                  swarthy ghosts would have seen had they come. So insular was the neighborhood,
                  that a man of it who could say he had been to Boston, distant a little over a
                  hundred miles, was considered a great traveller, whose conversation was listened
                  to with respect. The meeting-house was open every Sabbath day—by a sort of
                  compromise these sects call it the Sabbath day, but in reality keep holy the day
                  established by the Catholic Church to celebrate resurrection of Christ, little
                  dreaming that they are indebted to her authority and tradition for it—and crowded
                  with a grave and decorous assemblage of old, middle-aged and young, who met to
                  hear the words of their well-meaning teacher, an old man who had been nursed in
                  the early cradle of puritanism and who laid down the spiritual law as he
                  understood it, disintegrating the Scriptures blindly and at will with much
                  unction, and had devoted the labors of his life to building upon a sandy
                  foundation, happy in the conceit that it was rock of a safe but soft kind. With
                  the Bible in one hand and the "Articles of the Westminster Assembly" in the other,
                  Father Ray—as he was called—preached total depravity, and regeneration without
                  baptism, and justification by faith without works, until the converted ones felt
                  all the stern dignity of the elect, and the unconverted believed as they were
                  taught—some of them with an amazed sort of wonder that a merciful God should allow
                  His creatures, for whose salvation His own Son had died, to be born and live under
                  such a wrathful ban—that they were children of perdition and bond slaves of the
                  devil; and thus believing, much of their youth was spent in the shadow of severe
                  restraints; the innocent pleasures of life were condemned by the harsh creed of
                  their fathers as sins not to be forgiven, and as they could not all of them get up
                  the state of mind which they called conversion, many of them became indifferent—so
                  indifferent that religion appeared an unattainable myth to their aspirations; and
                  when those who thought much of such
                  matters got to measuring the morality and purity of their own lives with the
                  christian character of the "brethren," they found so little difference that the
                  balance sometimes seemed in their own favor, which of course scandalized them and
                  made them suspect that religion was not, after all, the holy and divine power they
                  had thought it to be. But on the "Sabbath" there they all assembled, the elect and
                  the unregenerate together, looking as if they had all taken a dose of the waters
                  of Marah and didn't care to have them sweetened; and old Father Ray would wind up
                  the saints with his "pure doctrine" until they felt like marching into the
                  lightnings of Mount Sinai, while the sinners—those who cared—looked as if they
                  were going to be hanged. Then it was all over until the next meeting, and they
                  went their ways, the members carrying nothing with them to sanctify and sweeten
                  the routine and toils of daily life; their souls bristled with the thorns of the
                  Law, upon which they hung their interpretations of the Holy Scriptures in good
                  faith; there was nothing done for the sake of Him who preached the Sermon on the
                  Mount, because they believed He had done all, and anything that they might do
                  would be idle works of supererogation; so they went on reading the Bible, and
                  thinking of "Free Grace" and "Predestination," and symbolizing the teachings of
                  Christ, and driving ing sharp bargains with each other between whiles, never
                  losing sight of their worldly affairs, until another Sabbath rolled round.
               Mrs. Flemming was one of the stern disciples of Father Ray; while her husband,
                  although a just man and living a godly life before the world and his brethren, who
                  held him in high esteem, sometimes differed from him, and in their private
                  conversations often startled the old minister by broaching opinions which he
                  denounced as dangerous and devilish errors. The sons and daughters of the house
                  were on the "seat of the sinner;" they had not professed that change known among
                  their people as "conversion," and were consequently the objects of many stern
                  reproofs and warnings from the old minister.
               On this bright and lovely day, when amidst the pearly lights resting on the
                  glistening peaks and sharp edges of the snow-covered ridges, one might almost have
                  imagined himself up among the opal-like cirri of a summer sky, the old brown mare
                  of the minister was seen bearing down towards the Flemming homestead. Sitting
                  erect and clothed in a severe suit of black, his black hat pulled down over his
                  ears, his coat collar pulled up to them, he and his old mare would have looked
                  like a sprawling blot on the fair face of nature but that by some chance he had
                  tied a red comforter around his neck, the
                  ends of which streamed over his shoulders, giving to the cold white foreground of
                  the landscape just the little dash of scarlet it needed. Riding with him was a
                  young man wrapped in furs, whose handsome, intelligent face looked brightly out
                  from under his cap of Russian sable, from which escaped a curling fringe of yellow
                  hair. This was Father Ray's grandson and ward, who having graduated at Yale was
                  studying law in Boston. He had come up to the White Mountain country to spend a
                  few days with his grandfather-uncomfortable days, full of sermon and lecture,
                  admonition and prayer, which the young scapegrace, who had adopted while absent
                  the exceedingly comfortable doctrines of "universal salvation," listened to with
                  suppressed yawns—and was now riding over with him to visit his old friends, the
                  Flemmings, and assure himself that Eva Flemming was unchanged; not that they were
                  lovers, but that he hoped some day to win her if the world went well with him. The
                  young folks were all at home, and he received a warm greeting; their delight on
                  seeing their old playmate taking much of the edge off the reproving salutations of
                  the minister, whom Mrs. Flemming took immediate charge of, helping him off with
                  his wraps and giving him a comfortable seat near the fire, after which she went to
                  the "work-room" to tell her husband he was there; then hurried on to send their
                  man-of-all-work in to kindle a great fire in the "best room," for she knew that
                  the two always liked to have a private talk together; after which she plunged into
                  her store-room to consider the possibilities of a feast; while she kept thinking
                  and could not get it out of her head "what a nice match George Merill would be for
                  Eva." The old minister was glad to go away with Elder Flemming to the quiet
                  well-warmed parlor in the new part of the house; for the young people, although
                  they felt the restraint of his presence, and with long faces tried their best to
                  be serious, George Merill, full of delight at seeing them all again in the
                  beautiful quaint old room, broke out in such gushes of talk and fun that for the
                  life of them they could not keep it up, and laughed and talked with the most
                  unprecedented irreverence; while father Ray sat bolt upright, twirling his thumbs
                  over each other and gazing with a displeased countenance into the fire as if he
                  were settling their final doom, So he was as much relieved to go out from among
                  them as they were at his going. When they were comfortably seated, each in a
                  well-cashioned arm-chair, Father Ray said:
               "George Merill came down with me. He's going away in a day or two, and wanted to
                  see the young people."
               
               "George is a very fine fellow. I am very glad he came" said the Elder
                  heartily.
               "George is a thorn in my flesh, a reproach to me and my ministry, he has got his
                  head full of strange notions, and disputes with me on the affairs of his
                  salvation. My head is bowed down with shame that he is gone so far astray, for he
                  is the child of many prayers," said Father Ray, sternly.
               "What are his notions?" asked the Elder.
               "Universal salvation. He argues that our Saviour died for all, and that all men
                  will be saved; and to fill the climax of his folly he has the audacity to say he
                  has Scripture authority for it. He has read the Bible since he could read at all;
                  in season, and out of season, I have made him read it; he is familiar with it, and
                  now wrests it to his own perdition!" cried the old man with indignation.
               "I have come to think," said Flemming in his slow level tones, "that there are
                  many things in the sacred writings to confuse the mind of the inexperienced, and
                  it has become a subject of grave import to me why so few of our children walk in
                  the way of our fathers. There seems to be something wanting to hold them from
                  running here and there after strange doctrines. George is only one of many, and it
                  was so even in my young days." Father Ray placed his hands upon his knees,
                  straightened himself up, and looked with surprised and severe aspect at the Elder,
                  who met it calmly, and continued: "You know that all who differ from us show
                  Scripture to authorize their opinions, ever when their doctrines are as much
                  opposed to each other, and as far asunder as the east is from the west."
               "I deny their right to do so," replied the minister in a sternly authoritative
                  tone. "It is because of the ungodly and carnal imaginations of such as wrest the
                  Scriptures to their own destruction, that these differences arise; that the young
                  and unregenerate follow after the idols of this world, and trample in the dust all
                  orthodox meaning and discipline. But when a man like yourself expresses a doubt, a
                  man raised on the very 'milk of the word,' whose head is already whitening in the
                  service of the Lord; then, Wolfert Flemming, I am filled with fearful misgivings
                  as to his state."
               "That is exactly the way I feel about myself, until sometimes the light becomes so
                  obscure that I almost despair; in fact, I have been wishing for some time past to
                  lay before you, as they are laid bare before God, some of the perplexities which
                  have arisen in my mind from reading the Scriptures," said Flemming.
               "I am ready to listen. I can tell you nothing on doctrinal points that you do not already know as
                  well as I; but we will take counsel together, Wolfert, and if the spiritual
                  experience of a man much older than yourself will be any help to you, it is at
                  your service."
               Flemming got up and walked to and fro the room two or three times, his head bowed
                  in deep thought, then resumed his seat and began: "I sometimes think that these
                  thoughts are temptations, and put them away from me, until I remember that they
                  are the sayings and the express commands of Him whom I believe to be the very Son
                  of God, equal in all things unto Him: in whom and through whom alone we trust for
                  salvation: then I go over the same ground again, and apply text after text to the
                  articles of belief in which I was raised, and which, on my conversion, I publicly
                  professed and accepted, and lo you! some of them seem to crumble away at the test.
                  I should like to forget all—to bury these doubts in oblivion, and be as I was at
                  first; but how can I seeing that I believe Jesus Christ to be the Eternal Truth,
                  disbelieve His word?"
               "No christian doubts His word," said the minister. "If you receive it in a limited
                  sense, or go beyond its meaning, there is your condemnation. But I do not easily
                  see the drift of your words."
               "Well," continued the Elder in his grave quiet way, "I can explain what I mean—God
                  help me—on at least one point. We deny that regeneration takes place in
                  baptism."
               "Certainly."
               "But when Nicodemus asked Christ How can a man be born again?' He—the Eternal
                  Truth—replied: 'Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter
                  the Kingdom of Heaven;' and yet we refuse baptism to an adult, until he is first
                  born of the spirit, or converted. It is true that we baptize infants, but how? We
                  give it to them as a symbol a pledge or testimony that we will do our
                  best as sponsors to raise them christians; for the child, we deny that it has a
                  saving, a cleansing significance or power, even when we know that He said
                     born of water."
               "Christ spoke figuratively," said Father Ray, in positive tones; "for how can a
                  man be born of water? He meant simply a dedication of themselves by baptism to His
                  service, as an outward sign that they believed and hoped in Him: but the new birth
                  of the spirit is the essential thing! How can water wash the total depravity of
                  man's nature away? Absurd!"
               "I do not know how," said Flemming, with a troubled expression in his
                  eyes. "I can only set what we are taught against what HE said, and see the
                  discrepancy! Not only what His own words
                  declare, but what His apostles and disciples preached and insisted on. St. Paul
                  calls baptism the 'laver of regeneration, and renovation of the Holy Ghost.' He
                  baptized 'whole families,' we are told, among whom were doubtless little children
                  and infants; children must therefore be capable of this regeneration by water,
                  since Christ said 'Suffer little children to come unto Me, for of such is the
                  kingdom of Heaven;' but how, since He declares it, shall even these
                  enter without being 'born of water;' and what becomes of total depravity, which
                     we believe can only be eradicated by justification by faith?
                  Throughout the New Testament, baptism is insisted on as an essential
                  and not as a figurative thing. St. Paul says: 'Arise and be baptized every one of
                  you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of your sins, you shall
                     receive the gifts of the Holy Ghost.' 'Arise,' said Ananias to Paul,
                  'and wash away thy sin.' Paul tells us again that 'Christ loved the Church, and
                  gave himself for it, that He might sanctify it cleansing it by the laver of water
                  in the word of Life.' This, and much else, disturbs me; but while we are thanking
                  God that we are not as other men, we stand blind and naked before Him."
               "Wolfert, Wolfert Flemming! that old Bible of yours, in which you take such pride,
                  was printed too near the ancient popish days not to have some corruptions in the
                  text. I have always misdoubted it, and now see with good reason," said the
                  minister earnestly. "Put it away—into the fire, or anywhere—so that you read it no
                  more; and get one translated in more enlightened days."
               "No!" said the Elder, while a flush deepened on his face; "I stick to my old
                  Bible. It is an early Lutheran edition; and what is so near its source it is
                  reasonable to think ought to be the purest. As the title-page tells me: 'it was
                  revised and approved by the great 'Reformer' himself."
               "Beware then, Wolfert Flemming, how you turn the word of God to your own
                  destruction. The exercises of your mind are not uncommon. Doubts and temptations
                  are the ordeal by which the soul—if faithful and steadfast—reaches sanctification.
                  You know what orthodox doctrine in its purity means, and understand experimentally
                  what justification by faith is. I cannot admonish you on these points, but I do
                  adjure you in the most solemn manner to have recourse to prayer; that
                  is the only weapon by which you can victoriously combat these doubts. Pray without
                  ceasing, and may He in whom we both hope deliver you from your perplexities," said
                  Father Ray with an almost imperceptible quaver in his harsh voice.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               MRS. FLEMMING IS THANKFUL FOR THE PROSPERITY AND HAPPINESS OF HER
                  FAMILY.
               "Yes, I will pray on, hoping for light," said Flemming in his grave, level tones.
                  "So far my prayers are unanswered; I have knocked but the door remains closed; and
                  the end of it all is that my spiritual life is full of discord. In the pages of
                  the 'word,' where I found only peace, I discover contradictions which so confound
                  me that I sometimes wonder if I have risked my soul on a lie."
               Wolfert Flemming's mental condition is one not at all uncommon to thinking
                  religious minds outside the One True Fold, though there be only a few who are
                  honest enough to admit the fact in regard to their own individual experience; they
                  go stumbling on over their doubts and misgivings, and search the Scriptures
                  diligently only to find outside of the texts on which their own peculiar doctrines
                  are founded, things hard to be understood, and an apparent authority for
                  contradictory belief, with a strange want of harmony which perplexes and dismays
                  them. How should they—who have always been taught that it is a false, idolatrous
                  creed—know that it is only in the Holy Catholic Church, which acknowledges the
                  eternal and indissoluble soluble unity of one Lord, one Faith, one Baptism, that
                  the integrity of the Scriptures is preserved intact, that their unbroken harmony
                  like golden links stretch from the promise, given by almighty God to our first
                  parents, of a Redeemer, down to the birth of Jesus Christ in the stable at
                  Bethlehem; from the manger to the cross, from the cross unto the end of time, from
                  time into a boundless and infinitely glorious eternity? To the true believer there
                  is no discord in the Holy Scriptures, for his is no ephemeral belief in an amateur
                  religion founded for the glorification and selfish ends of man, but a science of
                  eternal principles coming from God Himself, sealed by the precious blood of His
                  Son, and vivified by the Holy Ghost who abideth with it; a faith whose commission
                  of authority is divine whose interpretations are infallible, founded upon a rock
                  against which the gates of hell can never prevail; which—immutable, unchangeable,
                  and unshaken after the tempests and buffeting of nearly nineteen centuries—stands
                  as firm as the everlasting hills, more glorious and beautiful than the sun, her
                  battlements glittering with the souls she has won, her watch-towers enlightening
                  the ends of the earth; awaiting the consummation of time to ascend in triumph with
                  her spoils and conquests into the eternal heavens.
               Our good Puritan knew nothing of this True Faith; he had heard and read of a monstrous and devilish system called popery,
                  worse than the creed of Buddha, more infamous than the priestcraft of Egypt; a
                  thing so full of the abomination of desolation, so corrupt and antichristian in
                  its tendencies that it sickend his upright soul and made him wonder at the great
                  patience of almighty God in bearing with it; but beyond this mistaken view he knew
                  nothing; he was as ignorant as any pagan in the jungles of India of the one true
                  Catholic Church—its Faith, Creed, Dogmas, Precepts and usages. He was only one of
                  many God-fearing, truth-seeking men who, like Saul of Tarsus, think they are best
                  serving God when in their blindness they rage against His Church. He had the Bible
                  for his guide, but we see how sorely he was confused in a labyrinth of which he
                  held not the clue.
               "These are temptations, Wolfert," said the old minister, laying his hand upon the
                  bowed head of the strong man; "but keep them from the knowledge of your family,
                  lest you scandalize the weak and unregenerate of your own household, pray, pray
                  without ceasing."
               Jacob, overwearied with fatigue in his journey to Mesopotamia, took a stone and
                  laying it under his head slept there and had a glorious vision of angels, and when
                  he awaked out of his sleep he said: "Indeed the Lord is in this place and I knew
                  it not."*
                   So was it with this man who with earnest purpose rested on the Scriptures,
                  which, now more comfortless than a stone, would by-and-by become the very gate of
                  heaven to him.
                     
                     *Genesis xxviii.
                  
               Mrs. Flemming came in to invite them out to dinner, and her beaming smile was
                  somewhat checked when she noted the stern and troubled expression on the
                  countenances of her husband and the minister; but she at once imagined in her
                  quick conclusive way that they had been deep in grave religious discussions, which
                  accounted for it very satisfactorily to her mind, for it was utterly impossible
                  for her ever to disassociate religion with a stern gravity; and except that she
                  straightened herself up a little to meet the emergency, she gave herself no
                  trouble about it, and thought they were both saints. The young people were having
                  a cheerful time around the bright hearth of the old room, judging from the hum and
                  laughter that came sounding through the open doors; but it smote upon Father Ray's
                  ears so gratingly that when he came in his countenance wore a severe and
                  displeased look, which passed over the blithesome and innocent young hearts like a
                  cold wave, chilling them into sudden silence.
               "It is all levity," he thought; "they are children of the devil, and what right
                  have they to be laughing ing on the brink
                  of woe." Then he looked around at the handsome comely young faces, all drawn down
                  into a serious silence, which was a revolt against nature and innocence, while in
                  their hearts they were thinking "how unlovely religion is;" hen, as if satisfied
                  with this outward seeming, he folded his hands, and closing his eyes began to
                  "offer thanks." It was a long grace, more full of reproof, than of thankfulness
                  for blessings received, which gave the turkey and other viands time to cool, while
                  the mouths of the wholesome hungry young folks watered; and George Merill wondered
                  if a Harpy or something would not fly down and seize the good things before his
                  grandfather got through. But no; he finished, and in solemn silence on their part
                  the dinner was eaten. They ate, and that was all they could do; for the Elder, the
                  minister and Mrs. Flemming got into a talk about religious affairs in which
                  "justification by faith" and "free agency" were gravely discussed, which quite
                  extinguished their spirits. Nicholas whispered: "I wish that pedler fellow was
                  here. Wouldn't it be fun?" at which a contraband giggle was heared for an instant
                  but as instantly hushed. The "pedler fellow" had been the subject of their
                  conversation before dinner, and their hearty laughter had been over the
                  recollection of his pleasantries, blunders and songs; but the audacity of Nicholas
                  olas snggested a situation too ludicrous for their gravity even under the awful
                  restraints of Father Ray's presence. But everything comes to an end, and so did
                  the dinner; after which the Elder and his wife, with their reverend guest, sat
                  round the broad cheerful hearth of the quaint old room, while the young people
                  went away into the new part of the house and took possession of "the best room"
                  and enjoyed themselves.
               George Merill thought Eva more lovely than he had imagined; every movement was
                  full of unrestrained grace; her intelligent mind gave animation and interest to
                  all she said, and there was over it all an expression of an innate purity which
                  made her strangely beautiful, and he resolved that he would offer himself to her
                  before he went back to Boston. Father Ray, when he took leave, "admonished each
                  one to give up the vanities of the world, and declared that it was their own
                  perversity and hard heartedness that kept them from being converted." Said he:
                  "You harden your hearts and stiffen your necks, and by-and-by you will be
                  abandoned by the still small voice, unless you repent." Mrs. Flemming sighed a
                  genuine sigh from the depths of her motherly heart over her children; the Elder
                  looked on the sweet comely faces of his daughters and the brave handsome ones of
                  his boys, and the thought that there was
                  indeed "but one thing needful" to make them perfect; but wished that the stern old
                  preacher would try and make religion a more winning and lovely thing to them; for
                  his heart yearned tenderly over them that they might become true and faithful
                  servants of God.
               That evening the Elder and his wife sat talking over the fire; the young people
                  having gone off in a sleigh to the old meeting-house, a mile distant, to attend
                  the singing class. They were quite alone, Said Mrs. Flemming:
               "I think, father, we ought to feel very thankful. God has prospered us abundantly,
                  and our home here is happier than most. Indeed, I often wonder if many have been
                  as happily matched and mated as we two."
               "I'm afraid there are not many, little wife; more is the pity. Yes, as you say, we
                  have reason to be thankful, and I hope that we are so," said the Elder smoothing
                  her hair.
               "And I will tell you what, father," she went on. "I think our children will be
                  happy too; they are handsome and thrifty, although I say it who oughtn't; and they
                  are going to marry so suitably and will have none of that rough close struggle
                  that most young couples have Deacon Sneathen's a well-to-do man, and Huldah is a
                  good, managing, natty girl, and will make Nick a good wife; then, John Wilde—I
                  don't know a better young man—you know that he is rich; leastways he's got the
                  biggest and best stocked farm in these parts, and will be a good husband to Hope,
                  depend upon that. And I am sure that George Merill will ask Eva; I saw it in his
                  eyes to-day if I ever saw anything."
               "What a clever little mother it is," said the Elder, smiling; "and what a proud
                  one you'll be to sit down among your children and grandchildren some of these
                  Thanksgiving-days. But you are mistaken, it is likely, about George Merill; he
                  will want a city wife, and don't you see that he's a bit of a dandy?"
               "He may be that; but if he's not head over ears in love with Eva, I never was so
                  deceived in all my life," said Mrs. Flemming, poking up the fire with the
                  tongs.
               "It would be a good match, a very suitable match," replied her husband
                  complacently. "Only I should not like Eva to go so far off."
               "Neither should I; but such things are to be expected, and it would be selfish to
                  stand in the way of her happiness and interest if she likes him," answered Mrs.
                  Flemming.
               "That is very true. Why, mother, the old home will be very empty and lonely for us
                  when they all go. I think we shall have to fetch Huldah and Nicholas to live with
                  us."
               
               "It is time enough to think of that, father. It would be very
                  lonesome; but, to my thinking, young people are best off to themselves, in their
                  own house. Mothers-in-law and daughters-in-law oftener than not get to hate each
                  other, and I shouldn't like Nick's wife to hate me. I'm afraid that your plan
                  won't answer; I've been mistress here too long."
               "And shall be to the end, my good faithful little wife and helpmate. As long as
                  you live this house is your kingdom," he said fondly, while a warm glow of
                  happiness passed over her face, softening away every hard line until the beauty of
                  her youth seemed given back to her for a few moments;—then:
               "It will be pleasant, I guess, to have them all coming to see us, father; and you
                  know we shall have Reuben all the time."
               "Our poor Reuben! I fear that his life will be spent uselessly. I can't imagine
                  what he will do," sighed the Elder, while his heavy eyebrows lowered.
               "Ah well! there is no use fretting our hearts to tiddle-strings over Reuben. I
                  dare say something will turn up to suit him," replied she, also sighing. "But I
                  feel pretty well tuckered out, and shall go to bed."
               That night, after Hope and Eva got home, they sat together on the hearth rug,
                  reluctant to leave the warmth and glow of the fire, so grateful to their
                  half-benumbed feet after their cold ride—talking over the evening after the manner
                  of young girls:
               "I think," said Hope, "that George Merill is very handsome."
               "Yes, George is good-looking. I don't think the city has changed him much,"
                  replied Eva in a tone of unconcern.
               "You seem very indifferent," said Hope teasingly.
               "No, I am not indifferent. I like George—"
               "Aha! so I thought!"
               "As a friend. We were playmates at school you know, Hope, and I liked him then
                  just as I did Nick and Reuben; and I like him so now," answered Eva
                  seriously."
               "Well I guess that's something; but good night, I have to be up betimes in the
                  morning. I should like to sit here all night if it were not for that," said Hope,
                  getting up to begin her preparations for rest—"good night; tell me all about the
                  pictures you find in the coals. Poor Ruby's pictures!" And Hope kissed her
                  sister's fair upturned face; then with a sudden impulse she placed her hands on
                  each side of her head, and pressed her cheek lightly on her golden hair. Soon
                  Hope's low, soft breathing told she was asleep; but Eva still sat motionless tionless on the rug, lost in thought.
                  Presently she reached out her hand and took her Bible from a small work-table
                  standing near, opened it and drew out the picture of "the crucifixion," the
                  keepsake of Patrick McCue,—and gazed, her eyes full of deep thought, her heart
                  stirring to strange pulsations, upon it. The picture and she who stood beside the
                  Cross ever haunted her. Like the aerial echoes of Killarney, which continue to
                  float and repeat in clear sweet musical cadences the notes of the instrument which
                  evoked them, long after it has ceased, so through the pure and quiet realms of
                  this young girl's mind floated ever and ever, no matter where she was or what she
                  was doing, the thought of the Virgin Mother; and all of her thoughts converged to
                  the question: Who was she? She had never thought of her before, beyond the natural
                  fact of her being the Mother of Jesus. She had read of august mothers: the mother
                  of Moses, the mother of the Gracchi, the mother of Washington, and many other
                  noble and true mothers whose virtues she admired and revered. She had also read of
                  mothers whose sorrow could not be thought of without tears: she had wept over the
                  grief of Hecuba; her soul had glowed with a sort of burning ire and pity at the
                  sevenfold martyrdom of the mother of the Machabees; she had lamented with the
                  mothers of Bethlehem over their slaughtered innocents; but the Mother of Jesus! it
                  actually seemed something new to her, now she came to think of it that this holy
                  Mother was not a myth, but an actual mother, who had lived and suffered. She had
                  never thought of her before, and had felt no more veneration for her than for
                  other women; the mother of Washington had stood far above this lowly Virgin
                  Mother, who was altogether subordinate and lost sight of in the life of her Divine
                  Son; but now she began to have deep thoughts, which would not let her alone, and
                  being possessed of a clear analytical brain and keen womanly perceptions, it is
                  not strange that she should want to study out the problem that haunted her. And
                  even after she laid her head upon her pillow, instead of dropping off to sleep she
                  got to wondering how this Mother could only stand weeping and suffering by the
                  Cross upon which her sinless Son was expiring in cruel torments, when it seemed
                  only human that she should have died in a sublime endeavor to defend and shield
                  Him; then she thought over all the mothers she knew, and there was not one of
                  them, she was morally sure, who if they could not have rescued their child from
                  his in human enemies, but would at least have died in the effort. But this Mother,
                  unlike any other, accepted the wrongs and ignominies of her Son with passive
                  endurance without lifting hand or voice to protest against the injustice of His persecutors and the
                  wanton cruelty of His torments. "There must be," she thought, "a reason for this,
                  a mystery which I cannot understand," but she determined to begin the very next
                  morning, at the first chapter of Genesis, and search carefully through every line
                  and verse of Holy Writ, down to the last word in Revelations, to see if she could
                  make it out. Then it seemed strange to her that she had never felt the least
                  reverence for her who was the Mother of Jesus, because she was His Mother. The
                  mother of Washington was reverenced next to himself in the American mind; but here
                  was the Mother of the Saviour of the world, scarcely known, never venerated, never
                  spoken of, and held in the lowest esteem of all the holy women named in the Bible.
                  Eva could not make it out, but fell asleep murmuring "unlike other mothers."
               Unlike other mothers! Yes! promised from the beginning, this Virgin Mother was
                  unlike all others; this second Eve, through whom the fault of the first Eve was to
                  be repaired; this gate through which the King of glory was to enter; this Virgin
                  expected, and sung, by the patriarchs and prophets, to whom an archangel was sent
                  with wondrous message from the Most High; this Mother to whom Simeon prophesied
                  that a "sword of grief should pierce her soul." Yes, truly was she unlike any
                  mother the world ever saw; elect from all eternity; sinless in her conception and
                  birth; the virgin Mother of her Divine Son; a martyr above all martyrs, while He
                  was the victim for all sin; and for what? That the world might be redeemed. Her
                  Son had "to be about His Father's business;" the time had come when all was to be
                  accomplished; therefore did she stand dumb and passive in her woe, bearing in her
                  soul the cruel wounds and bitter torments of His body; therefore had she strength
                  to see Him die; every nerve and fibre of her being pulsing with the dread
                  sword-thrust of grief throughout His dolorous Passion; sharing every pang,
                  immolating her nature, and offering with Him the sacrifice of soul and body, that
                  the great work of Redemption might be accomplished.
               Eva's thoughts of the Blessed Virgin Mother were like the fibres of a root in a
                  dark place, stretching themselves towards a slender thread of light coming through
                  a narrow crevice, unknowing of the boundless wealth of sunshine and dew outside
                  its prison bounds; or like a mountain pool, into whose depths a rare jewel is
                  dropped and hidden by the ripple made by its fall, until presently its ruffled
                  pulsations subside, and the sun gleaming down into the clear transparent depths,
                  flashes into the heart of the gem like a tongue of fire.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               GROPINGS AND THE SHADOW.
               It was true. There was nothing humanly speaking, for the Flemmings to wish for.
                  They were prosperous, contented and happy in each other; and, as Mrs. Flemming
                  said: "What better could they hope for their children, than the safe, sensible
                  marriages they expected to make?" It is true that the good little mother got into
                  quite a gloomy, anxious mood every Sabbath, over the unconverted state of her sons
                  and daughters, for which she found no balm in Father Ray's sermons; but she
                  scarcely gave herself time during the busy week days to feel troubled about it,
                  finding her solace in her household and family cares; and for any spiritual
                  anxieties that might arise, a diversion in Reuben's idle, shiftless ways, which
                  acted as a chronic counter irritant, perplexing her without measure; and now that
                  he had taken to writing verses, and drawing pictures and faces upon the barn door
                  and the kitchen wall, with charcoal and chrome red, which was left from painting a
                  new out-building, she had a perfect fever of the heart, which now and then vented
                  itself in wondering "what on earth would become of him!" They would be able to
                  leave him enough to keep him above want; but an idle man! This was a lusus naturæ which she could not endure to think of,
                  and he a Flemming!
               George Merill staid on from day to day, from week to week, and spent much of his
                  time at the old homestead; then something happened which gave them all great
                  happiness. John Wilde experienced the "saving evidence," and professed conversion,
                  and was afterwards baptised by old Father Ray, not only with water, but with the
                  old minister's tears that flowed over the furrows of his harsh face without an
                  effort to check them, on the head of the stalwart, handsome young fellow, whom he
                  had held in his arms and blessed, when he was only a few hours old, beside the bed
                  of his dying father. His heart was softened when he thought of this; and he felt
                  in administering this christian rite that he was redeeming a pledge made long ago
                  to a dying man, and he rejoiced that he was spared for the work, no doubt ever
                  crossing his mind as to the method, or his right in performing it. John Wilde was
                  always a good, moral young man; but all of his friends, those who were "members"
                  and those who were not, rejoiced over his conversion because they thought it a
                  safe thing for a young man just starting in life to be religious. Nicholas
                  Flemming grumbled over it a little, and told Hope that he "expected John would get
                  as ugly and sour as Father Ray himself,
                  and he supposed that he would think himself too good to shake his foot in a reel
                  again." No: John Wilde would never dance again, but Hope was thankful to see that
                  he was only a shade more serious than usual, and that he did not grow disagreeable
                  or sour. He only exhorted her now and then in such a way that she got afraid that
                  she was not good enough for him; but on the whole he was the same, and they were
                  all very happy together, except Wolfert Flemming, whose doubts and perplexities
                  increased instead of diminished; and the more he pored over his old theological
                  books—some full of Lutheranism, some full of Moravian doctrine, to seek a
                  standing-place for his feet—the deeper he got into the mire, for none of them
                  agreed; each one gave different interpretations to the texts that disquieted him,
                  and in his thirst he could find no drop of water in the broken cisterns they had
                  hewn out, until at last it became clearer to the man's mind, every day, that in
                  the administration and government of God's kingdom upon earth, there must be a
                  unity, a oneness and a divine authority worthy of Him, its head and founder. But
                  here he was obliged to stop short. He had not found the clue yet, and he went
                  stumbling on in the shadow of darkness, blindly groping for the keystone of the
                  arch, which seemed far beyond his reach. These were not the days of railroads,
                  telegraph wires, steamships, literary privateering, and cheap dissemination of
                  philosophy. Kant and Spinoza had not yet enlightened the American mind with their
                  transcendental and pantheistic effusions. Renan had not written, and one heard
                  nothing of "Symbolic Christs," of "Spiritual Christs," of "Representative
                  Christs," and but little of no Christ at all, or it is just possible that our good
                  Puritan might have been drawn into an insidious, cheating and destructive
                  maelstrom of infidel ideas, and tried to measure an infinite God by the poor guage
                  of human reason. Happily safe from such temptations, his whole mind was bent on
                  trying to reconcile the glaring discrepancy between the literal words and commands
                  and teachings of Christ, and the doctrines and teachings of the sects which he
                  believed to be orthodox; but he could not make them harmonize either symbolically,
                  practically or theoretically; so finding that this perpetual study of what became
                  daily a deeper mystery to him, was beginning to make him morose and gloomy, he got
                  into his cutter one morning, and went a day's journey up the country, among the
                  pines, where his men were felling timber. Here, with axe in hand, he hewed away at
                  the great trees from morning until night, with such force in his sinewy arms, that
                  his six-foot lumbermen felt ashamed of their more puny blows, and braced themselves up with a will, for these
                  half wild men of the mountains did not like to be outdone by one who followed the
                  plough and pottered about the lowland valleys; and there was more timber felled in
                  those few days than was ever brought down before in so short a time. Wolfert
                  Flemming's blood circulated more healthily, and he brought a good appetite with
                  him to the repast of bear-steaks, potatoes and brown bread that was daily set
                  before him, while he found mental occupation in settling two or three quarrels
                  among the rough fellows around him; but none of these expedients quieted the vexed
                  needs of his souls, and at the end of a week he went back with a vague yearning
                  and longing after an indefinable something which could settle the difficulties and
                  exercises of his mind. Father Ray could not do it, neither could his books, for
                  they contradicted each other; and he had prayed—he thought in vain—for light. His
                  Bible most of all disturbed him, for therein were the words of Divine Truth
                  itself, which meant everything or nothing. If they meant everything, why was he in
                  darkness or doubt? If they meant nothing, then all religion was a lie. If Christ
                  was the Eternal Truth, then were His words the truth; if He was not, then His
                  teaching was an imposture. And upon this proposition Wolfert Flemming's mental
                  struggles hinged themselves. He believed truly honestly and with all the strength
                  of his will and understanding, that Christ was the Son of God, the very Redeemer
                  who came upon earth not only to ransom man, but to found a law of Faith in which
                  he could walk without stumbling, and this law of Faith should be something divine
                  and perfect, without contradictions and pitfalls. It became more and more clear to
                  him that this divine code did not belong to any of the contradictory creeds with
                  which he was familiar, because some of them made a dead letter of the literal
                  words of Christ, while others gave them meanings to suit themselves. How could a
                  thorn tree bring forth figs? He opened his Bible one day, and read of the
                  wonderful power given to Peter and the Apostles: "Whose sins ye remit, they are
                  remitted; whatsoever ye loose upon earth shall be loosed in heaven." "As My Father
                  hath sent Me, I also send you!" and to Flemming's mind, even in the ordinary
                  affairs of life, it would have seemed more than absurd to have bestowed such
                  powers and withheld the means of executing them. He inferred, then, that this
                  august power had been given, with the authority and means to execute it, otherwise
                  the words were as meaningless as anything in Joe Smith's Bible. Had this power
                  become a dead letter? He could not be certain. The German Lutherans, he had read,
                  claimed some such power, but the other reformed formed sects trampled it under foot as one of the
                  abuses of popery. Then, too, Christ had said, "If he will not hear the Church, let
                  him be anathema." He did not say churches; therefore, if He was to be believed,
                  there was a Church in which was vested a power not only to remit sins, but to
                  anaathematize those who stubbornly refuse to hear it, if he was to credit the
                  Bible. These were some of the doubts arising from his study of the Scriptures; but
                  the crowning and most weighty one of all, was in the sixth chapter of St. John,
                  which seemed to be the key-note of his difficulties, the mystery which if he could
                  understand it, would unfold the rest; the pillar of cloud that led him he knew not
                  whither, only drifting farther and farther away from the dogmas he had been taught
                  from his youth up; while the Bible, which he had always held as the true rule of
                  Faith, was now his stumbling block Was he a hypocrite? This thought reddened his
                  honest face with shame; but he feared that it was something like it to be
                  outwardly holding with the shallow belief of his sect and doubting all the time.
                  What right had he to set up to be wiser and of deeper penetration than his
                  brethren. Was it not the presumption of a fool to measure his distractions against
                  the sacred wisdom of three centuries? "There must surely," he sometimes thought,
                  "be a maggot in my brain, or something corrupt in my soul. I will
                  shake off these importunate temptations." But he might as well have said that he
                  would not breathe, and expect to live on; for, do all that he would, he could not
                  silence these demands of his soul; and he went on plodding the routine of his
                  everyday practical life, wrestling with the strong Angel in the darkness until
                  sometimes he felt almost spent, and wondered if the day would ever dawn. In the
                  outward man there was no change. A close observer would have thought him a shade
                  more reticent, a fact resulting from his mental exercises, which he now confided
                  to no one, not even to Father Ray, with whom he declined any further discussion by
                  telling him one day "that he should try to let things fall back into the old way;
                  he saw no help for himself otherwise, and he should endeavor to silence his
                  doubts, and serve God according to the lights he had;" which the old minister
                  thought a very judicious, christian-like course, and rejoiced over him as over a
                  sheep that had been lost in the wilderness and found again. But it did not seem to
                  strike him that on the two last "sacramental Sabbaths" Elder Flemming was not in
                  his usual place in "meeting." He heard that he had gone up among his lumbermen in
                  the pine region; but when the third one rolled round, and he was not present at
                  the "Table of the Lord's Supper," he called upon him to admonish and rebuke buke him, with a heavy heart; for the
                  shortcoming of a brother so looked up to by other professors as a "burning and
                  shining light" and example on which they sought to model their own lives, was no
                  ordinary grief to the old man; but Flemming heard all that he had to say
                  patiently, and only replied, "I was compelled to go away;" which, although not
                  entirely satisfactory, was worth, coming from him, a hundred excuses of any other
                  man.
               We have seen how happy and prosperous the Flemmings were, and heard them
                  congratulating each other, with thankful hearts, for the blessings which crowned
                  their lives. Of course we leave out Wolfert Flemming's mental disquiet, because
                  his family had not the remotest idea that he was thus exercised. Except that,
                  there was not in all the broad land a more truly happy and united home circle, or
                  one bound together by bands of stronger kindred love. But have you ever in a calm
                  summer day, when there was not a cloud to be seen to obscure the brightness,
                  noticed a shadow suddenly sail over your head and flit like a thing of omen over
                  the waving heads of the golden grain, shadowing the poppies among the corn and the
                  asters in the meadow, and, on looking up, shading your eyes with your hand, seen
                  that it was a hawk sailing through the amber hued air? You had no superstitious
                  dread of the hawk or its fleeting shadow, but it was not pleasant to have an eerie
                  phantom drop out of a cloudless sky on your head, and go creeping and gliding over
                  the beautiful things of earth around you, like an evil thought, aud a little chill
                  quivered over your flesh, as you watched the broad-winged bird until it went out
                  of sight into the far off depths of the distance. Well, I will tell you that one
                  day such a shadow fell upon the old homestead, a shadow which they thought no more
                  of after it had passed away, but which was the avant-courier of others yet darker
                  for that happy household. It happened in this wise.
               One afternoon, George Merill rode down to say good-by to them all. Hope and
                  Nicholas were away at Deacon Sneathen's, but expected back before night. The Elder
                  was busy somewhere in his outbuildings and Reuben was with him, full of the
                  amiable endeavor to be useful, but, as usual, getting himself in the way and
                  throwing well planned things into disorder, much to his own surprise, for he
                  looked chiefly at his motives and aspirations, without paying much attention to
                  his ability to execute; and Mrs. Flemming and Eva were employed in some household
                  sewing in the family room, gossiping cheerily over the little affairs of the
                  neighborhood, but abstaining from all malice or slander; that was one of the moral
                  laws of this family to which they scrupulously adhered —when George Merill came in, his well-knit,
                  handsome form set off by a plain rich city suit of broadcloth, and his fine face
                  aglow with hopeful, healthy vitality; and both the women thought they had never
                  seen him so noble-looking and attractive. They shook hands; and Mrs. Flemming
                  inquired after his grandfather's health. "He was well," George said; "but my
                  grandfather's religion seems to hurt him all the time like a tight boot. I don't
                  mean any disrespect, Mrs. Flemming; but, except one or two, here and there,
                  people's natures appear to be affected by religion just as a green persimmon does
                  a fellow's mouth; it puckers them up morally, and makes them crabbed. I can't make
                  it out, and shouldn't bother myself over it, only my grandfather and some of his
                  friends are forever preaching to me, and I get heartily sick of it."
               "Your grandfather is a faithful minister of God's word, George, and you ought to
                  be ashamed of yourself to try to show off your city smartness at his expense,"
                  said Mrs. Flemming.
               "Yes, my grandfather is a good man, Mrs. Flemming; but he is troubled
                  with spiritual hypochondria, which gives him awful notions of things; in fact, I
                  don't call a thing that makes a man miserable, religion; at least, if it is, it
                  don't suit me. But I don't pretend to make it out; some of these days I'll try to,
                  perhaps. I am going away, tomorrow, and I came down to shake hands with
                  everybody," he said, looking at Eva.
               "I guess we shall all miss you, George," she said frankly.
               "I am glad to think that I shall be missed," he replied gravely.
               "You have taken a good long holiday; but I expect you'll go back and forget your
                  country friends, amid the great city folk," said Mrs. Flemming.
               "No," he answered simply; "I shall never forget them. There is nothing in Boston
                  that I like half so well as being here. Where is everybody to-day?"
               "Father and Reuben are among the stock, looking after some pigs that need
                  currying. Nick and Hope went up to see Huldah; but I expect them back presently,"
                  said Mrs. Flemming. Then it seemed to occur to her that George, here at the last
                  moment, might wish to say something to Eva, and she rose up saying, "she would go
                  and see where father and Ruby were, and bring them in; she knew they would be
                  sorry to hear that he was going away;" and she gathered up her work. dropped it
                  into the work-basket, and fluttered out George Merill drew his chair closer to
                  Eva's, and said, "It depends upon you, Eva, whether or not I ever come back."
               
               "I hope not, George," she replied, while the roses faded out of her cheek.
               "You hope not!" he repeated. "It does, I tell you, depend upon the
                  answer you give me now. I love you, Eva. Ever since we were children, you know you
                  were always my little sweetheart when we went to school together.—I have loved
                  you, and the hope of one day winning you for my wife has been the incentive to all
                  my best exertions, and the safeguard of my manhood and honor. What have you to say
                  to me?"
               "I am sorry, George;" and the girl's voice was tremulous with pity; "I am sorry to
                  pain you; but—"
               "Don't, Eva; don't!" he cried, putting forth his hand with a deprecatory gesture;
                  "don't tell me that all my patient waiting and love goes for nothing. I couldn't
                  stand that; indeed I couldn't."
               "You must have courage, George," she said at last, as she lifted her pure, honest
                  eyes, so like her father's, and looked frankly into his. "I cannot return the
                  preference you have honored me with. It is kind of you to think so well of me, and
                  I thank you for it; but I can give you no hope beyond my friendship."
               "But why—why, Eva? What is there in me so repulsive and disagreeable that you
                  refuse to allow me at least to hope to win you?" he exclaimed.
               "No, there is nothing of that sort, George; on the contrary, I do not know any one
                  who has greater personal advantages, and I have a thorough liking and respect for
                  you, such as I have for my father and brothers——"
               "But, perhaps," he interrupted almost rudely, "there is some other person towards
                  whom your liking goes a little farther than this dutiful kindred sentiment!"
               "That is none of your business, George Merill!" she answered, while an angry light
                  flashed for a moment in her eyes. Then pitying him for the breaking up of the
                  hopes that had brightened his dreams so long, she added more gently, "There is no
                  other person."
               "Then I will hope, Eva. Remember, I will not give you up; I will
                  write to you, I will come; I will importune you, and bear with your caprices and
                  wait patiently; but I will not give you up, remember that," he said.
               "It will be all useless, George; and you will waste the best years of your life in
                  an idle pursuit. I will not receive your letters. As a friend of the family, I
                  will give you welcome when you come, but nothing more," she said in a grave
                  determined tone.
               Just then the Elder and Reuben came in, and there was a great hand-shaking, in the
                  midst of which Hope and Nicholas
                  arrived. They had heard at Deacon Sneathen's that George was going, and went over
                  to Father Ray's to see him; but he was not at home, and the housekeeper told them
                  he had gone up to John Wilde's; but here he was, to their great joy, at their own
                  fireside; and the pleasant, friendly things that were said to him, and the sorrow
                  they all expressed at his going away, should have consoled him, but it did not,
                  and he felt so hurt and disappointed that he could not stand it, but got up to
                  take leave and go.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE FLOATING SHADOW.
               "Don't forget old friends, George," said the Elder.
               "No fear of that, sir," he replied, while they shook hands; then, with a frank
                  audacity, full, however, of an honest purpose to fight his battle out
                  single-handed, he added: "Since I am sure of your friendship, sir, may I hope for
                  something nearer?"
               "You could not be too near to us, George," said the Elder, something at a loss how
                  to answer him: but the sincerity of his soul asserted itself, and he merely
                  uttered the simple truth.
               "And you, Mrs. Flemming—you know I want Eva for my wife," he blurted out.
               "You have my best wishes, George," she replied, while a soft womanly blush stole
                  over her face from the shock of his strange, outspoken wooing, and the sudden
                  fulfilment of her hopes for her child. "But what does Eva say? Of course——"
               "Eva," he interrupted, "gives me no encouragement."
               "And," interrupted Eva, as she stood with her arm carelessly thrown over Hope's
                  shoulder, while an angry sparkle flashed in her eyes, "you ask the influence of my
                  parents when I have already answered you, and complain of me. Fie upon you, George
                  Merill."
               "Not so, Eva!" he answered bravely "I only do what any other honorable man would.
                  I ask their sanction of my endeavor to win you; for although you have answered me,
                  and pretty decidedly too, remember I do not accept your answer. I told you that;
                  and knowing that you all have no secrets from one another, I speak openly, and
                  tell you again, before them all, that I will not give you up. I intend to
                  persevere in my suit until my faithfulness and constancy shall win you," he added
                  manfully.
               
               "It will be so much time wasted, George. Since you are so very frank in your
                  wooing, I will be equally so; and I positively decline, before all these
                  witnesses, your offer," said Eva with spirit.
               "Do not be too hasty, Eva!" said Mrs. Flemming, whose breath was almost taken away
                  by the scene.
               "It is not the result of hastiness or caprice, mother. I like George Merill, and
                  wish him well," she replied; "but he might as well know, up and down, for good and
                  all, that I will not marry him. It is no use for him to set his mind upon it, and
                  lose chances in Boston which will suit him better. Besides, what is the use of a
                  man throwing his life backwards in such waste? For myself I don't intend to marry.
                  I am going to be the old maid of the family."
               "Well, good-by, Eva. All that you say makes no difference to me. I shall come
                  again, and perhaps you will change your mind. I don't know whatever I have done to
                  make you hate me so;" and George held out his hand towards her to shake hands, but
                  she withheld hers.
               "I do not hate you; you know that I don't; I only treat you as one honorable
                  person should treat another, by telling you the truth. I have no idea of marrying.
                  It does not seem to me that marrying should be the sole end and aim of a woman's
                  life; and I am very happy here," she said bravely.
               "You are heartless, Eva."
               "No, I am not heartless, George, and you have no right to say that. I am sorry to
                  have pained you, for you are like a brother; and Nick and Reuben were never angry
                  with me in their lives. Surely you would not like a wife who could not love you,"
                  she said, pitying the grief and disappointment that she saw surging up in his
                  eyes.
               "Yes, Eva, because I know that in time I could win your love," he said quickly,
                  hoping that she would relent.
               "There has been enough of this, George. I wish you well with all my heart," said
                  Eva, to whom the scene was becoming more painful and embarrassing. Then she turned
                  abruptly away and left the room, without throwing another word or look towards
                  him. About five minutes later she heard his horse galloping off as if his rider
                  had dug the spurs pretty deeply into his sides.
               No one said a word to Eva about George Merill: indeed, no one saw her until supper
                  time, for she had gone straight up to her room, and shut herself in, then had a
                  good womanly cry, for she was both sorry and exasperated: sorry to have brought
                  such a disappointment into her old school-fellow's life, and angry at his
                  presumption in assuming the position he did after she had positively rejected him;
                  but most of all was she mortified at the scene which had just taken place in the presence of the family. Eva Flemming
                  could not brook being treated like a capricious child, when she knew how perfectly
                  in earnest she was, and how firm her purpose, as George Merrill should find out to
                  his cost. After supper, when they were all gathered around the old hearth, as
                  usual, a casual observer could have detected no change. The fire burned brightly;
                  between the andirons simmered a row of great juicy red apples; a little farther
                  off stood a large stone pitcher of cider, slowly warming; on the other side the
                  cat was curled up asleep at Reuben's feet, as he sat reading. They talked to each
                  other, trying to be cheerful; but there was a restraint; and one after another
                  they dropped into silence, which nothing interrupted except the crackling of the
                  fire, the rustle of paper, as the Elder and Reuben—both reading—turned the pages
                  of their books, and the sharp, rapid click of Mrs. Flemming's knitting needles. At
                  last the Elder closed his book, and looking around at the serious faces, he said,
                  "It seems to me that you are all uncommonly quiet to-night! I scarcely feel at
                  home, mother—what is it all?"
               "Don't bother about us, father. I guess we shall overget the trouble, whatever it
                  is," said Mrs. Flemming, in her quick, sharp way. Nicholas thrust his hands down
                  into his pockets, and tilting back his chair, looked up at the black rafters
                  overhead, festooned with sweet-smelling herbs, and whistled to himself. Reuben
                  laid his book down over his knee, and turned his soft, mild eyes inquiringly from
                  one to another. Hope felt her face redden as if she were the guilty one, and stole
                  he hand down and folded her sister's lovingly in it, but she—Eva—a little paler
                  than usual, lifted her handsome eyes, and looked steadily at the unquiet
                  countenances around her, and felt intuitively that if they were not
                  displeased with her, she had at least disappointed them all. Her affectionate
                  nature was pained to think that she should be the first to create a discord in the
                  family harmony, always so perfect; but it was a way the Flemmings had, to have no
                  secrets from each other, and to speak out openly of whatever troubled them; so she
                  took heart and said:
               "I guess, father, that I am the cause of the quiet that you complain of. I'm
                  afraid that you are all displeased by what I said to George Merill."
               "I'm sorry for George, that's a fact," said the Elder; "he's a great favorite of
                  mine, and of all of us; and I should have liked him well for my son-in-law; but
                  when that is said, all is said that is in my heart about it; for, as much as I
                  like him. I value you and your happiness still more. You have not offended me,
                  daughter."
               
               "Thank you, dear father," said Eva, while her voice trembled with emotion. It was
                  much for her to be assured that her father, whom she idolized, was not angry with
                  her; but the rest——
               "Well!" said Nicholas, "my opinion is that George is a man that any
                  girl might be proud of; and it looks to me like a foolish caprice to throw him
                  over like that."
               "It would be a silly caprice, and a wicked one, too, Nick, for Huldah to throw
                     you over; but the cases, you know, are entirely different," said
                  Eva, with spirit. Nicholas subsided and held his peace, for this came directly
                  home to him.
               "George will be a very rich man. The minister told me that he had outlying lots in
                  Boston; that when the city stretches out to them—which it is fast doing—George
                  will be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. Just think of that, now," said
                  Mrs. Flemming, with a quick snap of her fine black eyes.
               "I am glad to hear that, mother, for his own sake," said Eva, quietly; "for he
                  will more easily forget his disappointment up here when he takes hold on the cares
                  and glitter of riches. I do not care for money myself—at least as the price of
                  what I should consider dishonor—for I do not love George Merill, and if I married
                  him for his money I should be ashamed to look him in the face."
               "To be sure you would," said Hope, speaking for the first time, "and I should be
                  ashamed for you."
               "George promised to take me over the seas to see the fine pictures of the old
                  masters," said Reuben, with a sigh; "but I guess that's all up now;" Even Reuben
                  reproached her; but she laughed and said:
               "Perhaps not. I think there is something between you and the old pictures that
                  will sooner or later bring you together, Ruby."
               "Don't put such stuff into his head, Eva," said her mother, curtly.
               "Is it stuff, mother? I only meant to comfort him!" she answered, with a sad
                  smile, while her eyes flashed with unshed tears; the strain was getting too much
                  for her.
               "Yes, I call it downright stuff. Reuben must learn to be useful, and not expect to
                  go about the world mooning and daubing, and doing nothing but read." Reuben
                  sighed, picked up his book and sought refuge on the heights of the ideal, and soon
                  forgot the family discussion going on around him. His mother always let such a
                     douche down 'n him that he was glad to
                  escape, shivering with the shock and chill of it. "And I think, Eva, since we have
                  come to talk of it," continued Mrs. Flemming, after quenching Reuben, "that you
                     have done a very
                  foolish thing to reject George Merrill."
               "I am sorry, mother," she said, gravely; "but I do not wish to marry—least of all
                  will I marry George Merrill."
               "Many a one just as positive as you are have changed their mind," said Mrs.
                  Flemming. "There's Prudence Rogers; why, she and Sam hated each other after they
                  got acquainted, for more than a year; then, after all, got married; and there was
                  not a happier couple about, was there, father?"
               "And I read once of an audacious man that beat and cuffed and kicked a high-born
                  lady who had refused his suit; and she, either to wipe out the insult, or because
                  she was afraid that the next time he would kill her, married him. But if George
                  has the spirit of William of Normandy, he'll find no Matilda of Flanders in me,
                  mother," exclaimed Eva, whose spirit was up so high that she could not wait to
                  hear the history of Sam Rogers' happy marriage.
               "Well, perhaps you'll repent, Eva; repentance and changing one's mind
                  are perhaps different things," said Mrs. Flemming, with a provoking smile.
               "I shall never repent of this, mother, rest assured of it. I ask nothing better
                  than to stay here with you and my father in the dear old place where I was born,
                  as long as I live," said Eva, more quietly.
               "And here you are welcome, my child, as long as you live," said the Elder. "Your
                  mother and I ought to rejoice if we can keep you; for the old place will seem too
                  empty and silent when you all go away to new homes."
               "Well, well, don't fret over what I said, Eva. I am outspoken. I am
                  disappointed; there's no use denying it. I should be glad to think I'd have you
                  with me all my life; but I don't want you to be an old maid, like that forlorn,
                  dried-up old aunt of Huldah Sneathen's," said Mrs. Flemming, whose mother-heart,
                  always true and good in its instincts, was at last touched. Pride and ambition for
                  her beautiful child had held sway long enough—it was pulsing to the right music
                  now; and Eva went over, and drawing up a low cushion, sat at her feet, and leaning
                  upon her knees, lifted her eyes appealingly to her face and said, "Then you are
                  not angry with me, darling?"
               "Well—no—I'm not angry," she replied, while she laid down her knitting and
                  smoothed the soft, golden brown hair away from Eva's pure forehead. "I can't say
                  that I'm angry, but disappointed. had counted so on seeing you a
                  great lady down to Boston——"
               "Wife! wife!" exclaimed the Elder.
               "Why! mother!" said Hope
               "It's no use," said Mrs. Flemming. "I mean just what I say. I counted on seeing her a fine
                  lady in Boston, riding in her own carriage and dressed in rich silks, laces and
                  jewels, and showing that the New Hampshire hills are no way behind the flats of
                  Massachusetts in the way of handsome women. Now if that's a sin, it is out, and
                  I'm done with it; so let the subject be dropped."
               Eva buried her burning face in her hands. She felt humiliated to think that her
                  own mother had been having such sordid thoughts about her. The Elder did not speak
                  for several minutes, but kept walking up and down, while the knitting needles
                  clicked with vim. At last the Elder said slowly, in his kindly, even tones, "My
                  daughter, you did right. You have my approval."
               "Thank you, father," she replied very quietly.
               "Now let us be as we were before," said Hope, snuffing the candle. "I declare I
                  feel as if we had been in a Scotch mist."
               And they tried "being as they were before;" but the shadow had flitted over them,
                  and each one had an indescribable and indefinite prevision that the harmony of
                  their life was broken. But Mrs. Flemming began to talk of farm matters and the
                  coming spring work, a subject always full of interest to her, and asked, "What are
                  you going to do with that corner lot, father? It's a perfect quagmire."
               "Drain it, and put down Swedish turnips, I think."
               "It's a great waste of soil, I think. They're nasty things."
               "I like the sharp taste of them, rather," he replied; "they are splendid winter
                  feeding for stock, and will make your butter look like gold, mother."
               "Yes, I guess they will. I hope you'll put down a good lot of mercer potatoes on
                  that slope; they'll come early there, and fetch a high price. I should not wonder
                  if you get four or five dollars a barrel."
               "Yes, they'll bring about that, if I can get them into the market early enough.
                  But if we have a late, soggy spring, how then?"
               "It'll be a poor chance for early potatoes, and hard on people who have nothing
                  but their crops to depend on. Have you seen the Deacon lately, father?'
               "No. I shall have to see him in a day or two, about that lumber business. Our
                  partnership expires in a month or so; and if he should take it into his head to
                  make a change, it will be a great disappointment as well as loss to me."
               "Land-sakes! such a thought never entered my head," exclaimed Mrs. Flemming. "Why!
                  what are you thinking about? The idea of Deacon Sneathen throwing you over for
                  anybody else, and just now, too, when you are clearing something on your
                  outlay!"
               
               "It does seem like sheer nonsense, even to think of such a thing," put in
                  Nicholas, who had been amusing himself tickling the cat's ear with a straw. "The
                  Deacon was only talking about it last night, and seemed very anxious to know if
                  you'd like to keep on for another term, father."
               "Was he?" remarked the Elder, folding his hands behind him, while he still walked
                  up and down. "I hope he will continue in the same mind. The business is a
                  profitable one."
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               MRS. FLEMMING HAS A GREAT SHOCK.
               THE snow was beginning to melt on the southern slopes of the hills, and in
                  sheltered nooks the star-wort shot its dark waxen leaves up among the soft green
                  mosses, while now and then, on sunny mild days, the low musical warble of the
                  bluebird—like stray notes from heaven—floated out and melted on the air. It was
                  cold enough yet, with too much frost in the ground for ploughing, and too much
                  frost in the air for the regular out-door farm work to begin; but there was no
                  lack of work for all that. The men were busy getting their farming implements in
                  order, burning brush, hauling manure, and mending fences. The Elder was busy
                  fencing in a piece of poor land, which persisted in growing nothing but wire
                  grass, to turn his sheep into as soon as spring opened, and on rainy days in
                  manufacturing the framework of a hay-tedder, having bought the metal teeth from a
                  travelling agent of the inventor the preceding autumn. Hay-tedders were novelties
                  then, and all novelties were looked upon then, as now, by old practical farmers,
                  as ruinous innovations; but the Elder had lost a whole field of hay last season
                  for want of hands to get it in in time, and having seen a hay-tedder at work
                  somewhere down the country, was so convinced of its utility that he determined to
                  defy prejudice, and use one upon his farm. He had great mechanical genius, and
                  being very much interested in his experiment, had succeeded in making, from the
                  diagram furnished by the agent, a tedder which would have borne favorable
                  comparison with those made in Boston. Nicholas had gone back to the pine forest,
                  and Reuben was happy at last in the prospect of making himself useful: he was to
                  paint the window frames and doors of the old homestead, a plan about which Mrs.
                  Flemming had serious misgivings, for she was "morally sure," she declared, "that
                  before they knew where they were, Reuben would have faces staring out at them from the panels, and the house would look
                  like a circus; he couldn't help it, poor boy; he was possessed, she was afraid;
                  poor, dear Ruby! and she couldn't think,. for the life of her, what ever would
                  become of him." But the Elder laughed and told her not to fret, that he would see
                  that there were no faces painted upon the panels. The girls were also busy
                  preparing Hope's wedding outfit, for she was to be married in May to John Wilde,
                  which, together with their regular domestic duties, left them no idle time; while
                  Mrs. Flemming helped everybody, governed her household and administered its
                  affairs with reference to the comfort and well-being of all, and had, every day,
                  two hours left for her carpet weaving. One letter had come to Eva from George
                  Merill, which she gave unopened to her father, declining altogether to read it,
                  who put it away into a private drawer of his desk, with a natural regret that Eva
                  had set her face so resolutely against her own interests; but he made no remark
                  one way or the other on the subject, nor did any of the rest of them.
               One day Huldah Sneathen and her aunt, Miss Deborah Wyatt, came to spend the day
                  with the Flemmings. The girls huddled together over the fine and beautifully made
                     lingerie of Hope's trousseau, and talked, and chattered, and cut patterns and sewed on
                  ruffles, and embroidered, until one would have thought they must exhaust
                  themselves, but the subject and the work were too interesting by far for that, and
                  their nimble tongues and fingers, instead of showing signs of weariness, grew more
                  voluble and busy every moment. Mrs. Flemming and Miss Deborah were entertaining
                  each other in their peculiar way, Mrs. Flemming inwardly fretting over the two
                  hours she was obliged to lose at the loom; but nothing loth, and with a pardonable
                  motherly pride, to talk over Hope's good prospects, to all of which Miss Deborah
                  listened with an expression on her countenance which said plainly: "I hope you
                  won't be disappointed;" which meant—when literally translated—"I shouldn't be
                  sorry if you were." She was an angular, uncomfortable-looking person, and had a
                  way of cocking up her nose and chin to take square aim with her eyes whenever she
                  addressed any one, which was embarrassing to some, and almost terrifying to such
                  as had weak nerves. She had never been handsome, and the wine of her life had long
                  ago turned to vinegar. She wore her thin dry hair drawn up to a knot on the top of
                  her head, and rolled into two little flat rings on each side of her narrow
                  forehead, where they were held in place by side combs. Her eyes were sunken but
                  sharp, and her voice thin and wiry, but, as old Sarah Gill said, "went through and through your
                  head, like a gimlet." Her neck was long, wrinkled, and decorated with two rows of
                  large gold beads, Miss Debby's fortune, invested in that shape for safe keeping
                  and not for ornament, she having a dread of banks, and as little love for the
                  vanities of the world, as her attire of plain dark woolen stuff, without braid,
                  cord, or button to trim it, testified. She had kept house for her brother, Deacon
                  Sneathen, ever since his wife died, and if Huldah hadn't got a start in life under
                  the tender, cheerful care of her mother, she would have been blighted and quenched
                  by Miss Debby, who was a firm believer in total depravity and that world-renowned
                  precept of Solomon's: "Spare the rod and spoil the child," which proves that
                  Solomon with all his wisdom sometimes gave utterance to impracticable theories.
                  So, according to Miss Debby, there was no cure for total depravity in a child
                  except the rod, until they reached the age of reason and obtained the "saving
                  evidence" of conversion; and she and Huldah had a spirited time of it, which
                  resulted in Huldah's setting everything that her aunt advocated at utter defiance,
                  and heartily hating everything that she liked. So Huldah loved to dance, to sing
                  songs to read "Sir Charles Grandison," and "Evelina," the only two novels she had
                  ever seen, which she found one day in a barrel of old papers in the garret where
                  she had been sent for punishment, and with which she was so charmed, that she
                  repeated her offence next day and the day after, that she might be sent up there,
                  where she could revel to her heart's content in the new, wonderful world she had
                  discovered. She loved to wear ribbons, laces and jewelry; and she had some rare
                  old treasures of both among the things her mother had left; she liked ruffles and
                  bright colors, and artificial flowers, and "purple and fine linen," and now that
                  she was grown, would never read the Bible at her aunt's bidding; or at all, unless
                  she felt like it; indeed, I'm afraid that Miss Debby had got Huldah to think of
                  God pretty much as she used to think, when she was a child, of the ogre that lived
                  in the clouds upon the top of Jack's bean stalk. She shuddered when, sometimes
                  alone in her mountain-side rambles and sometimes at midnight when the wintry
                  storms were howling outside her windows, the thought of God, the stern and
                  terrible Judge, the merciless executioner of justice and wrath, who might at any
                  moment reach out His iron hand from the heavens and thrust her into the living and
                  eternal flames of woe; the God her aunt had taught her to believe in, came like a
                  dark, fearful shadow into her heart, making her tremble and shrink even in the
                  bright sunshine, and hide her head in her pillows in the darkness. So it is not strange that Huldah grew up,
                  under such influences, into a sort of amiable, light-hearted pagan, flying from
                  all voluntary thoughts of this religion of horrors, and, like an epicurean
                  priestess trying to cover the skeleton with flowers. Only in one thing had she
                  profited by her aunt's guardianship; she knew all the mysteries of domestic
                  economy in all its branches, and was noted through the neighborhood as the
                  "nattiest, smartest" young girl in it. She liked house-keeping; and having good
                  taste and ambition, she beautified the old brown house under the elms, and
                  excelled in whatever she undertook.
               Miss Debby had already snubbed Mrs. Flemming—it was her way—and taken the girls to
                  task for frivolity, when the Elder came in from his fence-building, his face all
                  aglow with ruddy health, and gave cordial greeting to his guests, whom he was glad
                  to see as neighbors, and because their coming seemed like a friendly indication of
                  what he might expect about a renewal of the partnership, concerning which he had,
                  somehow, without any tangible reason however, had strange misgivings. After he got
                  fairly seated, and they were all waiting for dinner, Miss Debby stuck up her chin,
                  and taking sure aim at him with her eyes, said sharply:
               "Wal, now, Elder, I hear you're making one of them tedder things."
               "Yes; I have it nearly finished. It is a good thing for harvesting hay."
               "It's a great shame, to my thinking. It's taking the bread from the poor. I don't
                  hold with any such machinery!" she snorted out, elevating her chin still
                  higher.
               "Labor's hard to get sometimes; meanwhile the hay gets spoiled. The tedder works
                  so fast that you can go over your field three or four times if it is necessary,
                  and if there's a good hot sun, get heavy grass cured enough to go in the same
                  day."
               "I don't believe a word of it. I don't like newfangled things. They're unlucky. I
                  saw one of them things at work in Captain Jones' field last summer, and it looked
                  like a grasshopper kicking out its legs. It seems fooling with Providence, and
                  will make our lads as lazy as Virginny nigger drivers."
               "The world moves on, Miss Debby, in spite of prejudice, and I'm afraid you'll see
                  more tedders than mine at work this harvest," he said with a quiet smile.
               "And I hear you're hauling pond muck to put on your fields! Land sakes, Elder
                  Flemming! I think you must be getting a screw looser in the head in your old days!
                  Who ever heard the like!" she said.
               
               "It's one of the best fertilizers in the world," he replied, good-humoredly.
               "You got that out of books, I suppose! Book farming's ruined more men than a
                  few."
               "I'm a pretty old farmer," said the Elder, poking up the fire, with just a shadow
                  of annoyance in his countenance, "but I don't think pond mud will ruin me, if I do
                  get the notion from the 'FARMER.' You'd better try some on that slip of ground
                  west of your orchard, where nothing will grow but rag-weed."
               Miss Debby sniffed and was silent. That sterile lot was the eye-sore of her life;
                  and the Elder could not have found a more certain means to end their dispute than
                  the mention of it, if he had taxed his ingenuity for an hour. Then she turned
                  sharply around toward the girls and said, "Eva, how could you flirt so with George
                  Merill? I'd like to see Huldah treat anybody so."
               Eva's face crimsoned, but she made no answer. "I say, it was shameful of you, Eva,
                  and he so rich and handsome. Land sakes! have you lost your tongue!"
               "I have never flirted with any one, Miss Debby. Hope, give me that sleeve, and
                  tell me how it shall be trimmed," said Eva quietly.
               "Wal! and so techy about it, too. There must be something in it. I wish Huldah had
                  such a chance."
               "I wish she hadn't, then," answered Huldah saucily. "I wonder you didn't set your
                  cap for him, Aunt Deb." The old lady bridled, and got red in the end of her nose;
                  but the subject was quenched. Then, defeated on one point, she flew to another,
                  and said, turning toward the Elder:
               "Next Sabbath's Saycrament day, ain't it, Elder?
               "Yes."
               "That jest 'minds me, now I come to think about it: What become of you the last
                  three months at the table of the Lord's Supper? I looked 'round and didn't see you
                  nor hear your voice, either singing, nor yet praying. The Deacon says you was up
                  to the Pines."
               "Yes," he replied, "I was at the Pines."
               "Wal, I s'pose you'll be along Sabbath. It seems sort of strange not to have you
                  there in your place." Fortunately, at this moment Reuben and his mother came into
                  the room together, and the cat running to meet Reuben, whose especial pet she was,
                  he trod upon her tail without seeing her and was so startled at her outcry and the
                  tangle she got into under his feet that he lost his balance and pitched forward
                  with full force, falling across Miss Debby's lap, just as he, with a beaming
                  smile, had stretched out his arm to shake hands with her, almost upsetting her and
                  the chair together; she instinctively grasping at something to save herself from falling, seized Reuben's long
                  golden hair, and the next instant would have boxed his ears soundly when Huldah
                  grasped hold of her wrists, and with much laughter told Reuben to escape, which he
                  did forthwith, glad of the opportunity to get somewhere to laugh his fill. It was
                  an absurd scene; even the Elder's grave eyes had a merry twinkle in them, and Mrs.
                  Flemming was so choked with laughter that she could scarcely find breath enough to
                  say: "I declare! I do wonder what will ever become of Ruby?" while Eva and Huldah
                  and Hope, bent over their sewing almost in convulsions. Miss Debby gained her
                  equilibrium, but not her temper, and went away directly after dinner, to the great
                  relief of the Flemmings, to whose amiable and happy tempers she was under all
                  circumstances and at all times a moral nettle.
               That evening Mrs. Flemming, after a long and thoughtful silence, said: "Father, it
                  does seem strange to me that you have not been to meeting the last three Sabbaths
                  of the Lord's Supper. I hope nothing will take you off next Sabbath." She had been
                  secretly troubled for weeks about this, but had forborne speaking, under the
                  impression that her husband's absence from his usual conspicuous place on these
                  solemn occasions was of absolute necessity; but Miss Debby's remarks, so full of
                  ill-concealed malice, determined her to relieve lieve her mind by speaking out.
                  The Elder did not answer her at once; he only moved uneasily in his chair, lowered
                  his heavy eyebrows, and tapped slowly with his fingers on the page of the old
                  Bible which he had been poring over. At last he said in a slow, deliberate voice:
                  "There's no business to take me off. But I shall not be there"." Mrs.
                  Flemming dropped her work and looked at him in speechless surprise, and in her
                  face there was a flickering look of terror, an appealing, silent demand for the
                  meaning of his words. It had been laying heavy at her heart for three months, but
                  she had kept silent, hoping that when the next "Sacrament Sabbath" rolled round,
                  her husband, of whom she was justly proud as the impersonation of all that was
                  true and good in man, would be there at his post the burning and shining light,
                  the golden candlestick of the sanctuary; and now to hear this! He would not be
                  there!
               "Did I understand you, father? Did you say that you would not be present at the
                  Table of the Lord?" asked Mrs. Flemming in a low, excited voice.
               "You did not misunderstand me, mother," he replied, speaking slowly: "I shall not
                  go."
               "And why? Oh husband! husband! what does it mean?" she exclaimed. "It can't be
                  that you are a backslider after all these years of christian, godly life? You of
                  all men!"
               
               "I may be that in a sense," he answered, "but I will not be a hypocrite."
               "Hypocrite! Why, father, what do you mean? Eva, Hope, Reuben! go
                  away; I want to talk to father," she exclaimed, almost beside herself.
               "Stay where you all are, children. I have no secrets from you, least of all in
                  such matters as this," said the Elder, lifting his head and looking out of the
                  great truthful eyes from one to the other of them, as they, full of wonder at the
                  strange scene, looked with almost frightened faces towards him. "I have something
                  to say to you, wife and children,—a something which has troubled me for years, and
                  made a miserable man of me whenever I have partaken of the bread and wine of the
                  Sacrament. I would have kept my secret still buried in my own breast—for I know of
                  no help for me—but, as you see yourselves, circumstances compel me, as it were, to
                  reveal it, at least to you, my wife and children, for fear you may judge me as
                  having been guilty of hidden sin, and be scandalized in me."
               "O Wolfert! Wolfert Flemming! what awful temptation has got possession of you?"
                  exclaimed Mrs. Flemming, from whose face every vestige of color had fled, and
                  whose eyes were dilated and fairly gleaming with excitement.
               "I don't know," he said, sadly; "I don't fully know, myself. I feel blind, like
                  Sampson, and may be am pulling the temple roof down to my own destruction. But I
                  can bear it no longer! I was not born to be a hypocrite—I'd rather die than be a
                  hypocrite."
               "Father," said Eva, going round to him and standing by his side, while she laid
                  her arm tenderly about him and drew his grand, handsome head to her breast: "Tell
                  us what difficulty you are struggling with? We may not know how to help you, but
                  we do know that whatever the cause is, it is an honest one, and we can respect and
                  sympathize, and try to soothe——. Oh, father! you who are so truthful and good,
                     why should you be so troubled? It must be something of great
                  weight to move you from your foundations like this."
               "Sandy foundations, child!" he said, folding her hand for a moment in his own.
                  "But I will unbosom myself, then; think as you may of me, you will never despise
                  me for hypocrisy."
               "Dear father!" whispered Eva, leaning her cheek against his gray head. Mrs.
                  Flemming could not speak. She put her hand to her throat once or twice, and a
                  quick, deep-drawn breath, like a sob, escaped her lips; and folding her hands
                  together in her lap, she turned to listen to what her husband might have to
                  say.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               LIGHT OUT OF DARKNESS.
               SHE sat listening to hear what he might say, with a dull dazed feeling in her
                  head, as if she had received a heavy blow upon it, wondering all the while if that
                  strong energetic will and intelligent mind, to which she had been wont to look as
                  to something higher and better than other men's, were drifting into the
                  eccentricities of coming madness, so strange and terrible a thing it was to her to
                  hear from her husband's lips words which meant something little short of apostasy.
                  Then, all the consequences of such a fall swept like a torrent through her brain;
                  she saw his place empty in the sanctuary, his "candlestick taken away;" she saw
                  him shunned by old neighbors and friends, and instead of being looked up to by all
                  as a model of every manly and christianly excellence, she saw him treated with
                  contempt, pitied with cold sneers by some, avoided as a leper by others; and as
                  the possibilities of worldly misfortunes, dearth of prosperity, and the ruin of
                  her children's prospects mingled gloomily together in her thoughts, she felt a
                  tightness grasping her throat, like the clutch of old Massasquoi's bony fingers,
                  almost suffocating her. But she did not utter a word; and with her slim little
                  hands clasped tightly together, resting upon her knees, and her handsome black
                  eyes flickering with the fever of her heart, she waited, wondering if it was in
                  the scope of human ingenuity to show good reasons for such backsliding. She had
                  not to wait long; for the Elder, after glancing with grave but tender looks on the
                  dear faces, all bent with anxious interest upon him, said:
               "It is a bad cause which can show no good reason to support it; and while I do not
                  seek to defend myself, which would argue that I doubt the justice of my
                  conclusions, I am willing to explain to you, my wife and children, the cause of my
                  refusal to partake any more of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper as administered
                  among ourselves. I am not a learned man, and have but little knowledge of other
                  religions outside the sect in which I was bred; but from a constant study of the
                  Scriptures, doubts and troubles have arisen in my mind, forcing me to the
                  inevitable conclusion that my religious opinions are full of error and deceit——"
                  Mrs. Flemming gasped for breath, and a spot of crimson flamed out on either cheek,
                  while an inward tremor ran like an electric chord through the hearts of the rest;
                  but no one spoke, and the Elder went on: "I will not now go into the history of my
                  doubts; some other time will do; but I will explain, as I said before, why it is
                     utterly impossible—unless I could
                  stoop to a base hypocrisy—for me to unite in a rite which strikes me as an
                  audacious human invention entirely opposed to the plain and literal meaning of its
                  divine Founder. To make myself better understood, I wish you to listen
                  attentively, not losing a word, while I read to you the sixth chapter of St.
                  John's Gospel.*
                   Then the Elder, in his clear even tones, read, slowly and impressively,
                  the chapter from beginning to end; Eva still standing with her arm resting upon
                  his shoulder, and her eyes fixed upon the page of the old Bible, with its quaint
                  illustrations, from which her father read. When the last word dropped from his
                  lips he again looked around him, and scanned with deep pity in his heart the
                  countenances of those near and dear ones, to whose hearts he well knew he was
                  bringing grief and disquiet. But as we said before, the Flemmings were people who
                  let nothing obstruct the working out of a principle which to their mind was
                  clearly right: and although the Elder felt the first throes of the sacrifice at
                  hand, he went bravely on. "The first thing," he said, "to be noticed in this
                  chapter, is the account of the great miracle, the most wonderful perhaps that the
                  Saviour had yet wrought; a miracle which was a manifestation not only of a divine
                  power, but of a divine priesthood, and at the same time a figure and a fact: the
                  figure and preliminary preparation for a great mystery which he was about to
                  announce to them, and a fact by which the physical hunger of five thousand men
                  besides women and children, was satisfied with material bread, which, blessed by
                  the Lord, was multiplied by His power in the hands of His apostles, who
                  distributed it to the multitude. But the carnal-minded Jews recognized only the
                  fact: their hunger had been appeased in a wonderful manner, and in the first flush
                  of their gratitude they declared Him to be a great prophet, and would have taken
                  Him by force and made Him a king, had He not fled from them, concealing Himself
                  from their sight; but they discerned neither the divinity of His power or the
                  symbolic meaning of the miraculous feast, and cared for no other manifestations
                  from Him than such material ones as would benefit themselves. 'He is a
                  wonder-worker,' they thought, 'and can found a rich and powerful kingdom, of which
                  we shall be the princes.' Full of such thoughts, they determined to follow Him the
                  next day, hoping to witness greater miracles."
               
                  
                  *What follows was the genuine experience of an intelligent Protestant mind,
                     who—at the time—had never heard of the doctrine of the Real Presence, and we
                     render it in all its simplicity.
               
               "In the next point there is a hidden and holy meaning to me, which seems separate
                  from the great mystery of the mystic feast announced by the Lord, and yet linked indissolubly with it in the
                  order of faith. I mean the appearance of the Saviour walking on the stormy waves
                  of the midnight sea. His disciples had sought for Him; and not finding him,
                  probably thought He had passed over to Capharnaum, and 'took ship' to go thither;
                  when a storm arose, and coming out of the darkness of the night, walking upon the
                  rough waves of the sea, they beheld a form advancing towards their ship, and they
                  were terrified, thinking that it was a spirit, until He spoke: 'Be not afraid. It
                  is I.' In this miracle he revealed Himself in a real and spiritual presence,
                  disguised by the miraculous character of the occasion, which was utterly at
                  variance with every natural law; and they did not know Him, until He said: 'It is
                  I'—when, consoled and full of joy, they took Him into the ship; a lesson, it seems
                  to one, of faith to His own disciples, some of whom, we shall presently see, after
                  all, turned back and walked with Him no more.
               "The third point to be considered is His discourse on the bread of life, in which
                  He declares Himself to be the Son of God, and enforces the necessity of 'believing
                  in Him,' as a condition to inherit eternal life—meaning clearly, from what
                  follows, a belief in His doctrines, especially in the great and mysterious one of
                  the partaking of His body and blood.*
                  
               
                  
                  *The reader must keep in mind that these impressions are the unaided results
                     of an uninstructed Protestant experience, and the writer is only
                     transferring them from a regularly-kept journal to her pages.
               
               
                  "The next day, the multitude who had been fed—full of human curiosity and
                     ambitious designs—sought for Jesus; but not finding him, 'they took shipping'
                     and came across the sea of Tiberias to Capharnaum, where they found Him
                     teaching in the synagogue. They said to Him: Rabbi, when camest Thou
                     hither?
                  "Then Jesus rebuked them saying: Amen, amen, I say unto you, you seek Me, not
                     because you have seen miracles, but because you did eat of the loaves, and were
                     filled. Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that which
                        endureth unto eternal life which the Son of man will give you. For
                     Him hath God the Father sealed.
                  "What shall we do, that we may work the works of God? they said to Him.
                  "This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He hath sent: Jesus
                     answered them.
                  "What sign dost Thou show us that we may see, and may believe Thee? they said
                     therefore to Him. What dost Thou work? Our fathers did eat manna in the desert;
                     as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
                  "Amen, amen I say to you: Moses gave you not bread from heaven; BUT MY FATHER
                     GIVETH YOU THE TRUE BREAD FROM HEAVEN; Jesus said unto them.
                  "Lord! give us always this bread! they besought Him.
                  "I AM THE BREAD OF LIFE: he that cometh to Me shall not hunger; and he that
                        believeth in Me, shall never thirst: Jesus said to them. But I
                     said to you, that you also have seen Me, and do not believe. All that the
                     Father giveth Me shall come to Me;
                     and him that cometh to Me I will not cast out: Because I came down from
                        heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of Him that sent Me. Now
                     this is the will of the Father who sent Me, that of all he hath given Me, I
                     shall lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this is
                     the will of my Father that sent Me; that every one that seeth the Son and
                     believeth in Him,*
                      may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up on the last
                      day."
                         
                         *Receiving Him in the Blessed Sacrament.
                      
                  "Then the Jews"—still discerning nothing beyond their carnal ideas-murmured at
                     Him, not because He had said He was the Son of the Father, but because He said:
                     I am the living bread which came down from Heaven. "And they said: Is not this
                     Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then saith he, I
                     came down from heaven.
                  "Murmur not among yourselves," Jesus answered and said unto them: "No man can
                     come to Me, except the Father, who hath sent Me, draw him:†
                      and I will raise him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets:
                     And they shall all be taught of God. Every one that hath heard of the Father,
                     and hath learned cometh to Me. Not that any man hath seen the Father, but he
                     who is of God, he hath seen the Father. Amen, amen I say unto you: he
                        that believeth in Me, hath eternal life."
                           
                           †Not by compulsion, nor by laying the free-will under any necessity, but
                              by the strong sweet motions of heavenly grace.
                        
               
               "Now," said the Elder, looking out of his grave gentle eyes with unspeakable love
                  upon them all, as they sat reverently listening, "we hear how solemnly and
                  emphatically He declares, over and again, His divinity, in calling Himself 'the
                  Son of the Father,' who 'had seen the face of the Father,' who 'had been sent to
                  do the will of the Father,' and so on; and how He insists on their believing in
                  Him as a primary and absolute condition to their inheriting eternal life. Do
                     we believe Him to be the Son of the Father, or do we not?"
               "We believe that! How can any one, who believes the Bible at all, doubt that?"
                  said Mrs. Flemming quickly. "And believing that He is the Son of God, and our
                  Redeemer who died for our salvation, is enough. It is all that is required of us.
                  God is not pleased with subtleties."
               "No; God is not pleased with subtleties," said the Elder in his calm, quiet way.
                  "And it seems to me, from what follows, that something more than a personal and
                  historical belief in Him is necessary. This belief must embrace the acceptance of
                  His doctrines. The devils themselves—as we are told in holy writ—believe and
                  tremble, but their belief is without profit; therefore He must have had a deeper
                  meaning in exhorting them to believe in Him than is now apparent.
                  There are no half-way doings with God. We must believe entirely not only in His
                  existence, but in His law revealed to us by Jesus Christ His Son.
               "Up to this point of our Saviour's discourse all seems easy, because it sounds
                  symbolic or figurative, and can be adapted in a mystical sense to our spiritual
                  comprehension; but I believe with all the power of my soul that He was teaching a
                     substantial truth, hence I am no longer satisfied with either type
                  or shadow, and will seek for the substance, which is Himself under the form of
                  bread. He speaks of three sorts of bread. The first is that with which he He fed the five thousand on
                  the mountain—a miraculous bread, miraculously multiplied, and figurative of a
                  greater mystery; but He calls it 'meat which perisheth'; the second is manna, which the Jews called 'bread from heaven,' but
                  which Jesus declares with the solemnity of an oath was not: 'Amen, amen I say unto
                  you: Moses gave them not bread from Heaven..... I am the bread of life.' Here now
                  we have the third kind of bread, and He tells us what it is: 'Your fathers did eat
                  manna in the desert, and are dead. This is the bread which cometh down from
                  heaven: that if any man eat of it he may not die. I am the living bread
                     which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live
                  forever: and the bread which I will give, is My flesh for the life of the
                  world.'
               "When the Jews heard these sayings, they strove amongst themselves, thinking He
                  meant His flesh in a carnal sense, and said to one another: 'How can this man give
                  us His flesh to eat?' Here was the time and opportunity for Jesus to have
                  explained His meaning if He spoke a parable, or meant His words to be understood
                  in a figurative sense; for He knew that He was speaking through them to all time,
                  and it would have been the work of a devil and not of God to leave them in error
                  on so vital a question. He saw how eagerly they awaited His answer, and how the
                  minds of His own disciples were troubled by His words; but, so far from doing
                  this, He declared in plainer terms if possible, ratified by the solemnity of an
                  oath, the same mystery: 'Amen, amen I say unto you: except you eat the flesh of
                  the Son of man, and drink His blood, you shall not have life in you.' Who was the
                  Son of man? Himself. Who was He? Jesus Christ. Who was Jesus Christ? The Son of
                  God. We believe this. Then must we also believe Him when He tells us how we are to
                  believe in Him, when He declares squarely and without a shadow of prevarication or
                  hidden meaning, in simple, straightforward, but awful words: 'He that eateth My
                  flesh and drinketh My blood hath everlasting life: and I will raise him up in the
                  last day. For My flesh is meat indeed; and My blood is drink indeed. He that
                  eateth My flesh, and drinketh My blood, abideth in Me, and I in him. As the living
                  Father hath sent Me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth Me, the same also
                  shall live by Me. This is the bread which came down from heaven. Not as your
                  fathers did eat manna, and are dead. He that eateth this bread shall live
                  forever.' Not only the Jews who thronged the synagogue that day to hear His words
                  scoffed and cavilled at His doctrines, but some of His own disciples, who had
                  witnessed the multiplication of the
                  loaves, and afterwards on the midnight sea saw Him walking upon the stormy waters;
                  who, terrified because they thought it was a spirit, were consoled by His voice
                  whispering: 'It is I: be not afraid, and took Him into their ship with joy:
                  doubted Him now, and turning back walked with Him no more. But He did not recall
                  them. They 'had seen Him and did not believe;' they had been taught
                  of God, but profited nothing. We believe in Him as the Eternal Truth, the true Son
                  of God, the Redeemer who assumed flesh that He might die in the flesh for us, then
                  we must believe Him when He tells us that to inherit eternal life we must eat of
                  this bread which is His flesh. To abide in Him and Him in us we eat His flesh and
                  drink His blood; and," continued the Elder, "I believe His words, and because I
                  believe them I can no longer make a mockery of them by partaking of symbols. There
                  must be somewhere among God's people a solution of my difficulty. The truth cannot
                  perish. I know nothing beyond Congregational opinions; and they do not hold it. I
                  do not know where, or how, to seek this life-giving bread. My ship is tossed on
                  waters of stormy doubts and fears, and in the darkness and uncertainty of my soul
                  I see Him afar off; He is yet but a spirit to me and I tremble, for I know not who
                  holds the divine and life-giving legacy He has bequeathed me, the great and awful
                  trust, the miraculous feast of the body and blood of Jesus Christ which to inherit
                  eternal life I must eat. This, my wife and children, is what has troubled my
                  spiritual life for some years past. I have sought to stifle it as a temptation and
                  false doctrine, but it has pursued me until my thoughts are so full of it that I
                  could as easily doubt my very existence as the belief that it is necessary to my
                  salvation to eat of this heavenly bread."
               "Oh, husband! your delusion passes all belief. It is a temptation; never doubt
                  that. There, there—read that!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming standing beside him, and
                  pointing to a verse which she read in a triumphant voice: "'It is the spirit that
                  quickeneth: the flesh profiteth nothing. The words I have spoken to you are the
                  spirit and the life.'"
               "Yes, mother; dead flesh separated from the spirit, in the gross manner they
                  supposed they were to eat His flesh, would indeed 'profit nothing. That is what He
                  meant. In proposing the feast of His body and blood, don't you see that it bestows
                  spirit, grace, and life, inasmuch as in partaking of it He abides in us and we in
                  Him, marking us for His own, worthy by it of inheriting eternal life? Paul says
                  that whosoever shall eat of this bread and drink of this cup unworthily shall be
                  guilty of the body and blood of the Lord, and 'he that eateth and drinketh
                  unworthily, eateth and drinketh judgment ment to himself, not discerning the body of the Lord.'*
                  "
                     
                     *I. Corinthians, xi.
                  
               "Wolfert Flemming! you are wresting the word of God to your own ruin! I fear that
                  you are possessed of a devil, if you are not crazy," exclaimed Mrs. Flemming,
                  laying her hand on his broad forehead and looking into his calm gray eyes, which
                  regarded her troubled countenance with a look of ineffable love and pity. "Oh,
                  what delusions to come to such a soul! Husband, send for Father Ray."
               "Father Ray cannot help me, mother. He tried, but gave me no comfort or light.
                  Only God Himself can aid me. I look for Him to stretch His hand out of the
                  darkness to lead me, for He knows how earnestly I seek Him; and though He slay me,
                  yet will I trust Him. I can be a hypocrite no longer. The scriptures themselves
                  have led me into deep waters; perhaps I may sink, but I hope not. I hope not. Like
                  Tobias, I know not the way, nor whence to find a faithful guide; but I 'believe'
                  for all that, and I know that God will not suffer me to perish through ignorance.
                  But I must break off from the old lines, they are too narrow for the needs of my
                  soul."
               "But, father, consider!" cried Mrs. Flemming her voice tremulous with excitement
                  and distress "Consider how you are looked up to by old and young as one strong in
                  the faith, and what a hurt it will he to souls to see you falling away from pure
                  and simple Gospel doctrines, to run after visionary ideas. Consider, too, the
                  discredit it will be to you, you who come of such old true-blooded Puritan stock;
                  think of the hurt it will be to your business, and the disgrace it will bring upon
                  your family—Oh, dear me! I never heard of such a dreadful thing in my life. And
                  the girls—I'm sure their prospects will be ruined if you go off and backslide in
                  this way."
               "Little wife," said the elder, kindly and gravely, "I must not labor for the meat
                  that perisheth, but for the bread of eternal life. I will abide in the promise of
                  Him who commands me to believe in Him. I am groping for the truth, which must be
                  somewhere on God's earth; and if I find it by His grace, I shall be ready not only
                  to suffer, but rejoice, if need be to die for it."
               "Oh, dear me!" bewailed Mrs. Flemming, "what will that righteous man, Father Ray,
                  say? What will the Deacon do? What will John Wilde think? I never had such a shock
                  in my life. Why, Elder Flemming!" she cried, growing irate: "You must surely be
                  bewitched."
               "No, mother, I am not bewitched. Don't distress yourself so—it pains me," he said
                  quietly.
               
               "I'm glad it does; it's a good sign, Elder Flemming, to have something pain your
                  conscience; it shows that you are not quite 'given over.' I've felt
                     something coming for weeks and weeks. I didn't know what, but it
                  made a cold spot on my heart all the time, that wouldn't let me forget even for a
                  minute that it was there. Ever since that idolatrous Irish papist was here, I have
                  felt so. I wish it had been in the good old times for him, with his crosses and
                  superstitions." Which meant that Patrick McCue would not have got off with flying
                  colors, but would probably have got a "rise in the world," as they say out in
                  Nebraska when a man is hung. "Only see, now, how God has punished us for
                  sheltering an idolater."
               "Mother, do you remember the words: 'I was a stranger and ye took Me in. I was
                  hungry and ye fed Me,'" said the Elder.
               "No, I don't forget them; but there were no wandering Irish papists going about in
                  those days, destroying the peace of christian families." Then Mrs Flemming, out of
                  breath, and half beside herself with grief and anger, went back to her chair and
                  tried to resume her work.
               Hope and Eva had not spoken; the whole scene surprised and distressed them; they
                  were not prepared for any such thing, and the sudden breaking down of accustomed
                  lines, or the uprooting of lifetime traditions, is always painful; but on the
                  whole they sympathized and almost believed with their—father, it all seemed so
                  straightforward and indisputable; but Reuben for once forgot his book, and
                  regarded with something akin to a speechless terror what appeared to him very like
                  a great moral earthquake of apostacy. Elder Flemming got up, and walked up and
                  down the room; his soft, firm footfall, and the creaking of a plank here and there
                  of the old floor as he stepped upon it, and the sparkling of the fire caused by
                  the falling apart of a great blazing log, were the only sounds, except the low
                  shrill whistle of the wind around the northwest angle of the house, that were
                  heard. They were all full of busy thought, and it seemed to them that a curtain
                  had been suddenly rent away before them, revealing a chaos into which they were
                  being driven. At last the Elder paused in his monotonous march, and taking his
                  accustomed seat, said: "We will have family worship;" then he turned over the
                  leaves of the old Bible, and in his calm even voice, full of the spirit of the
                     Psalm*
                   he read, fell soothingly upon the mortal unrest around him; after which,
                  from the fulness of his own soul, upon his bended knees, he poured out his cry for
                  help. Afterwards Hope and Eva bade him and their mother a tender good night and
                  went away. Mrs.
                  
                     
                     *Psalm lxvi "Deus misereatur."
                   Flemming lit Reuben's
                  candle, and sent him off to his room with a charge "not to read in bed," then she
                  took up her own candlestick, and went round inspecting the fastenings of doors and
                  windows, and looked to see if the old beaufet,
                  with its sparkling treasures, was safely locked; and finding that the Elder did
                  not move she fidgeted around, jingling her key-basket a litte while longer, and
                  then said. "Rake up the fire carefully if you are not coming but don't stay up too
                  late, father; you need sleep."
               But he did not feel like sleeping, and after she went away he took the light and
                  went to his "work-room' and sat down to think, but his mind was so tempest-tost
                  that he could not bring his thoughts to anything like order, and he determined to
                  go to work on the accounts of "Sneathen and Flemming" and prepare the new terms of
                  partnership, the old one expiring ten days hence; he would go over it all, and see
                  what he could do to find out what virtue there was in algebra for a troubled mind.
                  So thinking, he went to his desk, and in turning over and assorting his accounts
                  he picked up Patrick McCue's keepsake, which he had entirely forgotten, and in a
                  vague absent-minded way he opened it, and his eye lit upon these words: "First,
                  supposing it possible that Jesus Christ had deceived the Jews at Capharnaum, and
                  even His disciples, and His very apostles tles, in the solemn asseverations which
                  He, six times over, repeated His real and corporal presence in the sacrament when
                  He promised to institute it; can any one believe that He would continue the
                  deception on His dear apostles in the very act of instituting it? and when He was
                  on the point of leaving them? in short, when He was bequeathing to them the legacy
                  of His love?*
                  ..." The strong man's soul trembled as he read! What was this, and whence,
                  so aptly fitting his needs? Could it be that help was at hand, and from such a
                  source? Was it this book, which weeks ago he had thrown aside with contempt as
                  defiled with false doctrine, which was to enlighten him? He did not stop to parley
                  with the past, but read on, and on, until he came to the end of the subject, then
                  he turned hungrily to the first page of the book and began anew; he must see it
                  all, and find if other questions of his soul could be answered by it; and
                  forgetting time and rest, he stood at his desk leaning upon his elbows, devouring
                  its contents, so full and satisfying to his mind, until with a sudden upflirting
                  of light, the candle, burnt down to the socket, gave one flash of light and
                  expired, leaving him in darkness. Exterior darkness only, for the lamp of his soul
                  was alight, its shadows were fleeing before the divine illumination
                     
                     *"Millner's End of Controversy," page 229.
                   tion; he had found a guide at last who led him with
                  a strong, strange power into the ways of truth, and his very blood pulsed with a
                  new and perfectjoy. But he could not stop. He must learn more; so he kindled his
                  fire and lit the swinging lamp over his work-bench, and drawing his great
                  leather-backed chair to it, he sat down and resumed the book.
               Mrs. Flemming had passed a restless, feverish night. Now and then she dozed from
                  utter weariness, then starting up, wondering what was the matter with her, and put
                  out her hand to her husband's pillow, to see if he had come to bed; but finding it
                  empty, turned away with a sigh half of anger half of alarm at his absence; and
                  tried to sleep, but when hour after hour passed on, and the sky showed streaks of
                  light through the clear window pane, she sprang up terrified, and hurrying on her
                  clothes, trembling in every limb, ran down to the old sitting-room where she had
                  left him—her heart stirred with the first anger she had ever felt towards him—but
                  he was not there. Full of wild apprehensions and scarcely able to walk, she was so
                  agitated by she knew not what, she dragged herself along until she came to the
                  "work-room," and with a sick fear at her heart of not finding him there, she
                  softly opened the door, and there, his head leaning back on his chair, he was
                  sound asleep, with a look of such peace and joy and a smile of such perfect
                  restfulness on his countenance that Mrs. Flemming stopped half way, wondering if
                  it could be the red and golden light from the morning sun that brightened up her
                  husbands grand massive face with such strange soft brightness. He stirred at the
                  moment; and the book falling from his hand to the floor, awoke him.*
                  
               
                  
                  *This narrative was commenced two years ago. Elder Flemming's conversion,
                     from reading "Milner's End of Controversy," occurred more than forty years
                     ago; and another individual, of whom we knew, had her doubts entirely
                     silenced by a copy of the same work which she got from an ignorant Irish
                     woman, who kept a little Catholic library in Baltimore, twenty-five years
                     ago. The writer makes this explanation, lest some might think we are making
                     use of "Gropings after the Truth," by Dr. Huntington.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE NEW DAY.
               MRS. FLEMMING felt thankful, so thankful that she could have ran and thrown her
                  arms about her husband and told him how glad she was, after all her imaginary
                  terrors to find him there safe and unharmed; but then she got a little angry at
                  having been made so uneasy without rhyme or reason, and thought if in addition to
                  his new opinions—which threatened
                  trouble enough—he was going to adopt new habits, and upset their regular godly way
                  of living, she would try to nip it in the bud, so she said with some asperity of
                  tone:
               "This is a way for a Christian man to spend the night, sleeping in a chair in a
                  cold room without even your old cloak to cover you! I couldn't sleep even in my
                  bed, for wondering what had become of you; but that is a small matter."
               "Why, mother, I believe I have spent the night here!" said the Elder, a little
                  bewildered at first "And I have been asleep too. What a night you must have had;
                  forgive me; I did not expect to spend the night here. I came here to think awhile,
                  then I began to overhaul my accounts, and found this book in my desk, which I
                  opened, and got so interested in it that I forgot how the time was passing. I
                  really don't know when I fell asleep." Then he got up and stretched his great
                  limbs, and looked out at the glorious sky flushed with crimson and veiled with
                  transparent fleeces of cloud, with here and there a dash of gold gleaming through,
                  and streaks of blue, like great veins pulsing with light showing dark, and
                  beautiful, between the splendors that tinted every salient point with edges that
                  shone like the jewelled diadems of kings. He drew a long, full breath, an
                  inspiration of deep happiness; it was in his heart to cry out with David: "The
                  heavens declare the glory of the Lord"—so typical was the new-born day of the
                  light that had risen upon his darkness; but he repressed his emotions—his wife
                  standing there, looking so coldly and reproachfully at him, would not understand
                  him; so he only said: "The new day is very beautiful, mother. I never saw so fair
                  a morning."
               "Yes," she said, shortly; "it's a good day. I'm glad you found among your books
                  one that could interest you so much. I hope the sound doctrine of it will bring
                  things right. Better put out that sputtering lamp overhead. You'll find your clean
                  things on the chair—I suppose you haven't forgot it's the day to change—when you
                  feel like going to your room to slick up for the day."
               "Thank you, little wife," he said as she turned away with an injured air and left
                  the room. "Clothe my soul, O Lord, in fresh garments this day," he whispered as
                  the door closed. A great peace filled the man's soul, through the medium of which
                  all things looked more fair; he felt as if a film had fallen from his eyes, as if
                  a new day had indeed risen upon his life; as if—having been so long buffetted and
                  tossed by contrary winds of doctrine—he had suddenly found safe port for his soul;
                  for as he had turned page after page of that book so providentially thrown into
                  his hands just in his greatest need,
                  and found question after question answered, doubt after doubt removed, and every
                  contradiction that had troubled and tormented him solved and harmonized; he indeed
                  forgot how the night was passing; he only knew that he had discovered that there
                  was truly and verily a divine Faith upon earth, established by Jesus Christ, its
                  great Founder, and perpetuated through all time by His power. His natural reason
                  had long ago assured him that God cannot be the author of different religions;
                  for, being the Eternal Truth, He cannot reveal contradictory doctrines; and being
                  at the same time the Eternal Wisdom and the God of Peace, He cannot establish a
                  kingdom divided against itself.*
                   The result of this reasoning was, that consequently to be worthy of its
                  divine origin the Church of Christ must be itself ONE: one in doctrine, one in
                  worship, and one in government. This mark of unity in the true Church, so clear
                  from natural reason, was made still more clear to his mind from certain passages,
                  which over and over again had arrested his attention as fraught with deep and
                  connected meaning, while perusing the pages of his old Lutheran Bible; as, for
                  instance, when the Saviour, speaking of Himself in the character of the good
                  Shepherd, says: "I have other sheep (the Gentiles), which are not of this fold:
                  them also must I bring, and they shall hear My voice and there shall be ONE FOLD
                  and ONE Shepherd.*
                   To the same effect addressing His heavenly Father, He says: "I pray for
                  all that shall believe in Me, that THEY MAY BE ONE, as thou Father art in Me, and
                  I in Thee."†
                   In like manner St. Paul, inculcating the unity of the Church, writes: We
                  being many, are ONE BODY IN CHRIST, and every one members one of another.‡
                   Again, he declares: There is one Body, and one Spirit; as you are called
                  in one hope of your calling: One Lord, One Faith, One Baptism.||
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Milner.
               
               
                  
                  *John x, 16.
               
               
                  
                  †John xvii, 20, 21.
               
               
                  
                  ‡Rom. xii, 5.
               
               
                  
                  ||Ephesians iv, 4. 5.
               
               The settled convictions of Wolfert Flemming's mind, from a study of the Bible
                  alone, had long ago tended to the firm belief that Christ founded a visible Church
                  upon earth, and in this Church there must necessarily be a unity of faith,
                  doctrine, and government; but he was without chart or guide; his aspirations were
                  earnest, but he had no clue and was entirely hedged about by narrow sectarianism
                  and all the human inventions called religions, that he was perfectly ignorant
                     where and what this Church, which was so full of all
                  that could satisfy the immortal cravings of his soul for truth and consolation,
                  was to be found, until this night, when it was revealed to him as we have
                  described. Oh, God! how his soul
                  expanded; how greedily it drank in the knowledge of the Truth; how gladly his eyes
                  brightened in the light risen out of darkness; how his weary heart rejoiced to
                  behold a straight and narrow way beyond the tangled wilderness! He had been
                  drifting alone upon midnight seas, without helm or compass, when lo! the morning
                  dawned, and he found himself near the boundaries of the glorious land he sought!
                  Oh, what peace it was to know with a certainty, which it did not once enter his
                  mind to doubt, that there was indeed a Divine Faith upon earth; a Church—holy,
                  apostolic, and universal; a sheepfold having One Shepherd; a Creed acknowledging
                  and confessing one Lord, one Faith, one Baptism; a Body of which Christ is the
                  head; a great, holy, divine truth, containing and covering all truth; a Church
                  endowed with all the Godlike powers which had been exercised by it Divine Founder
                  upon earth; upon whose altars  abides through all time, offering Himself
                  from "rising of the sun unto the going down of the a perpetual
                  sacrifice to the Father;" the food  the guest of His children; the
                  "bread of life which is a guerdon of everlasting salvation to all who eat worthily
                  of it!
               It was all plain to the man's clear and logical mind, and as he finished the book
                  he exclaimed: "If this is being a Roman Catholic, then, my God, I am one—heart and
                  soul. There is nothing left for me but this, or infidelity. If the Catholic
                  religion be not the true one, then all religion is a lie But it is true. I feel it
                  in the depths of my soul, stirring it to new life; my reason responds to it; my
                  heart thrills responsive to it. My mind submits to it with gladness and freedom.
                  It is clear and indubitable. I am a Catholic. I believe all, because I believe in
                  Jesus Christ. I accept all. O God! Thou hast enlightened me while I dwelt in the
                  shadow of death; Thou has led me thus far; I see the way, I believe, but yet I am
                  afar off from actual communion with the One Fold; lead me still nearer, until I
                  and my household enter in." Have you not sometime read of certain philosophers
                  who, observant of effects, spent a lifetime of patient investigation, and tireless
                  study, and ruinous experiment, to ascertain their natural cause, and finally when
                  almost worn out by disappointment, poverty, sleepless nights, and the stolid
                  indifference of the world to the great principles of science, have suddenly and in
                  the most unexpected manner solved the mysterious problem, and understood at once,
                  as by inspiration, how it was to be applied to the grand march of the
                  world's progress; you have read of their exceeding and exultant joy, of the sense
                  of triumph and delight which almost killed or crazed them? But this was nothing,
                  aye, less than nought, to the profound
                  peace and content which flowed in and pervaded the whole being of the man who sat
                  there in his little workshop reading through the long dark hours of night,
                  finding, as he read, the solution of his soul's great problem. Just before the day
                  dawned he turned over the last page of the book; but, not satisfied, he again
                  opened it, and was reading and re-reading certain portions, when—throwing back his
                  head to think of the dragon's teeth that Luther had sown, and the sharp conflicts
                  he had with the heresies born of his own apostacy—he fell asleep.
               When Elder Flemming came into the quaint old family room, brightened by the
                  cheerful noisy fire and glorified by the splendor of sunshine streaming through
                  the windows, he found his slippers and dressing-gown by the fire, just where his
                  wife had been in the habit of placing them for the last thirty years; there was
                  his table, with the old Bible open upon it; there stood his chair waiting for him;
                  the breakfast table in its spotless linen and neat polished china suggested
                  thoughts of the dear faces soon to gather around it; there was nothing changed
                  except himself, and he felt at that moment a certain assurance that this change
                  would involve such sacrifices as would perhaps turn all this domestic peace into
                  gloom, and disperse forever the earthly happiness of his household. He could not
                  tell. The crucifixion came after the palms and hosannas. But he was prepared for
                  every crucial test, seeing that the kingdom of God is not of this world, and he
                  that enters in must be prepared for sacrifice and conflict. It is only when a soul
                  enters into the true Church that real sacrifice is made To go from one
                  denomination or from one communion to another scarcely excites remark, and
                  certainly involves no radical change of opinion, no revolution in faith; it is
                  looked upon by Protestants as a simple exercise of freedom of conscience; but when
                  a man comes out from among them to become a Catholic, the act has a deep
                  significance; it means persecution, warfare, and sacrifice; his whole being,
                  intellectual and spiritual, sloughs off its old life, its old association of
                  ideas, its errors and all arrogance of will, and submits with simple submission to
                  the divinely established authority of the Church. Neither fame, worldly
                  considerations, family ties, riches, honors, or human respect in any form can
                  compromise the integrity of this faith: if they stand in the way they must be
                  sacrificed; or he must, like the young man spoken of in the Gospel, turn back and
                  go sorrowful away. To become a Catholic a man must be prepared to sacrifice not
                  only material goods, but also to hear himself called "visionary"—a "seeker after
                  novelties"—"crazy"—"a hypocrite,"—and be accused of every unworthy motive; all of which goes to prove more
                  conclusively that the kingdom of this world, with its human inventions of creeds
                  and religions, is separate and distinct from the kingdom of Christ upon earth,
                  which is the Catholic Church.
               But we have forgotten. Wolfert Flemming standing there in the cheerful glow and
                  warmth of his fireside, full of peace and high earnest resolve, counting the cost
                  as nothing when compared with the certainty of eternal gain; for this thing was
                  for him a question of eternal import, before which all earthly considerations
                  faded into utter insignificance. Presently the girls came in with their pleasant
                  smiles and good morning kiss, and, shortly after, Mrs. Flemming and Reuben; she in
                  her high-backed, beaded chair—he close beside her, seated upon a lower one. Mrs.
                  Flemming said nothing; but her soul had been sorely exercised. "Suppose," she had
                  asked herself at least twenty times, "he should give up family prayer? Perhaps he
                  will. But I will go in, and seem to feel no difference. Come, Ruby," she had said
                  aloud; "come, it is time for family worship. Don't keep father waiting." Her mind
                  was soon placed at case by seeing her husband go towards his table and seat
                  himself as usual; and everything seemed so natural that she wondered if she had
                  been dreaming; she almost imagined she had, and her heart melted within her as she
                  listened to the unction with which her husband read the sacred word, and prayed as
                  if he were in the very presence of God. "No doubt," she thought, "it was the book
                  he read last night;" and she thanked God, without knowing for what, that he had
                  sat up all night to read it, never doubting but that it was a doctrinal work of
                  their own belief which had set all his doubts and difficulties at rest. She moved
                  about briskly and cheerily, sure that her husband's temptations had passed away:
                  and it was pleasant to them all to see the little mother whom they so dearly loved
                  and reverenced, standing with such a blithe happy smile upon her countenance at
                  the head of the breakfast table, as they gathered around, waiting for their father
                  to offer thanks; when to their amazement he raised his right hand and signed
                  himself with the sign of the cross in the name of the adorable Trinity, after
                  which he asked the blessing. Mrs. Flemming started and turned very white It was
                  the very thing that the Irish pedler had done at this very table.
               "Father!" she said sharply, "what do you mean by doing that?"
               "I mean, mother, that as the cross is the standard of Christ, and the sign of our
                  belief in Him, to use it in this way to help me at all times to bear in mind His
                  death and passion," replied the Elder, his grave, quiet tones unruffled and
                  kind.
               
               "But that is popery. It is like being a papist—"
               "I am a papist, my wife: in other words, I am a Roman Catholic."
               "Lord have mercy on me!" wailed Mrs. Flemming; and she would have fallen from her
                  chair if Hope had not sprung forward and caught her in her arms. She had
                  fainted—the second time in her healthy, happy life. The first time was when the
                  dying Indian squaw, Massasquoi, throttled her; and now when something ten thousand
                  times more terrible to her had come upon her, risen as it were out of her very
                  hearth to strike her down. Her husband was not a backslider, as she had feared he
                  was a papist, her dread and abhorrence, the antithesis of all that was good and
                  pure, religiously and morally. The Elder lifted the limp little form very tenderly
                  in his strong arms and laid her upon the sofa, chafing her hands, while Hope
                  opened a window and Eva ran to get hartshorn. It was a long faint, but presently
                  she revived and was bewildered for a little while, then she fixed her eyes on her
                  husband's face with a look full of pity, entreaty and reproach, and burst into
                  sobs and tears. It was something new in this peaceful household, such a scene as
                  this; nothing like it had ever happened among them before, and it almost
                  frightened them to see their mother, always so full of strong, cheerful life, so
                  unselfish in her ceaseless efforts for their comfort and happiness, stricken down
                  in such a way.
               "Mother," said Flemming, smoothing her cheek tenderly with his broad hand, "don't
                  get fretted and miserable until we have a little reasonable talk together over
                  this matter. When you come to know what good cause I have to change, you will no
                  longer blame me or be unhappy about it."
               "I would rather have seen you dead! I would rather have seen you dead!" she
                  cried.
               "Mother, we won't talk over this now," he said gently, for he knew how deeply she
                  was struck. "Come and get a cup of hot coffee, and don't get miserable over a
                  thing that fills me with unspeakable joy. At least be patient, and understand
                  distinctly that I am prepared to sacrifice everything on the face of the
                  earth—yea, life itself—rather than go back a hair's breadth from the saving faith
                  I have found."
               There was nothing to be said after this; Mrs. Flemming knew her husband too well
                  to argue with him when he asserted himself in this masterful, positive way; and,
                  not fond of scenes, she gathered up her energies and returned to the breakfast
                  table. There was but little talk, every one being full of his own thoughts; the
                  Elder finished his breakfast, again signed himself reverently with the sign of the
                  Cross, gave thanks, and left the room
                  to go about his daily tasks on the farm, and Mrs. Flemming and the girls to theirs
                  in the household. They were all very quiet: a sort of awe filled the hearts of
                  Wolfort Flemming's daughters, as of an unseen presence; but swift-footed and
                  practical, they did not stop to brood over it all: there was not an idle bone in
                  their bodies, and it was one of the principles of their life to put duty before
                  everything; so their domestic affairs received the same scrupulous attention, and
                  things were arranged in their accustomed order. The only difference was the
                  silence. There was no cheery conversation, no blithe snatches of song, no loving
                  little romp with each other, flitting here and there like sunbeams through the
                  house. Their father a Catholic! It was incomprehensible to their minds. They could
                  not have been more amazed if they had seen the topmost peak of Chocorua spread out
                  a pair of black, spined wings, and fly out of sight. How did it happen? And "how
                  did it happen?" they asked each other again, when seated together over their
                  sewing.
               It was the pedler," said Mrs. Flemming. "I knew and felt all along that something
                  dreadful would follow having him here. He contaminated a christian household with
                  his rank idolatries, and now see what had come of it."
               "Father is not a man to plunge recklessly into absurdities," said Hope; "even if
                  he should, he is not the one to stand by them just for the sake of making a
                  point."
               "I used to think so," sighed Mrs. Flemming.
               "If father has changed his religion, depend upon it he has good reasons for doing
                  so," said Eva: "and I hope that he will explain it all to us, for it must be a
                  better way than we know of or he never would have taken such a step."
               "Hush, Eva, this moment. How can you, who have never been converted or baptized,
                  know of such things," said Mrs. Flemming.
               "No, it is true, mother, I don't know much about religion; I only know that father
                  is a good and just man, who has served God without guile ever since I can
                  remember; and my highest aspiration, whenever I have thought of being religious,
                  was to be like him," replied Eva.
               "If all that he said last night be part of the change, I believe with
                  him so far," said Hope.
               "And I," quietly added Eva. I don't see how we can doubt a word of that, seeing
                  that Christ Himself said it all. I believe it as He said and meant it.
               "How many pounds of butter did you churn, Eva?" inquired Mrs. Flemming.
               "Ten, mother," she answered looking up quickly at her mother's flushed, unquiet
                  countenance for the sudden and
                  irrelevant question had almost taken her breath away.
               "Did you give the buttermilk to the pigs?"
               "Yes. Did you wish me to do so, mother?"
               "Of course." Then they fell to talking about other domestic matters; and at dinner
                  time the Elder, before and after meat, made the sign of the Cross upon himself
                  when he returned thanks, and Mrs. Flemming was thoroughly miserable. "After all
                  these years of peace, happiness, and family harmony, to be visited with such a
                  trial!" And it is only those who know anything at all of the puritan sentiment
                  forty years ago in New England—not yet extinct—against the Catholic religion, who
                  can understand the magnitude of Mrs. Flemming's trial. To have declared one's self
                  an open disbeliever, would not have been half as scandalous, or banned a man more
                  completely than for him to proclaim himself a Catholic in those days. It was not
                  in reality the Catholic religion which these people, who served God earnestly
                  according to their lights, were so bitterly prejudiced against; but a huge,
                  idolatrous, devilish system, which their sounders, teachers, and writers,
                  represented to them as such, to suit their own purposes, taking good care that
                  they should not be undeceived. The Catholic religion, as it is, was as sealed a
                  mystery to them as the Sphinx.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               MRS. FLEMMING AT BAY.
               MRS. FLEMMING was really sincere in her belief in the doctrines she professed.
                  There was just enough spirituality in them to lift them above the common, and they
                  were just narrow enough to come within the scope of human reason; all above that
                  being a dead letter, about which she gave herself no concern whatever. "Why should
                  it?" she thought; "for that which had served the ends of salvation for her
                  pilgrims forefathers was not only good enough, but the best for her." Besides it
                  was a comfortable religion, which gave one great liberty of action in the sharp
                  commerce of life, provided all things were done in a decorous and sanctimonious
                  way; and was not too exacting in its demands for God: for while they claimed
                  certain portions of the Bible for their rule of faith, and certain congregational
                  doctrines for their dogmas, a close observance of the Sabbath and its ordinances
                  was their actual Shibboleth. This was a most convenient arrangement for all human
                  purposes, as it left them six days to toil and prosper in, unfettered by any
                  higher law than the law of the land; and all that troubled their conscience
                  growing out of their daily life was healed by the unction of this day of
                  expiation.
               
               Such as it was—and it was the best and only one she knew of—Mrs. Fleming clung to
                  the meagre outlines of what she called her faith; it was good enough for her, it
                  had been good enough for the ancestral Flemmings and the ancestral Babsons, all of
                  whom had been righteous men and women, faithful to their calling, stern in their
                  opposition to everything that even savored of Popery, and forehanded with the
                  world. She and her husband had been happy together all these years; they had
                  prospered, and held a high place, not only among their own brethren, but were
                  looked up to by all with respect and something nearly akin to affection; indeed,
                  as the distressed little woman had said only a short time back, "There was truly
                  nothing left for them to wish for; their 'basket and store' was full and
                  overflowing with blessings in every shape." But now this dreadful thing had
                  happened; her husband was an apostate; he had done worse than apostatize; he had
                  turned Papist; and she felt that they were all ruined and to be brought to
                  disgrace and poverty. Then, leaving loom and everything else to take care of
                  themselves, she shut herself up in her room, and prayed and wept as she had never
                  prayed and wept before, that her husband might be saved alive out of the fiery
                  temptation which threatened him, body and soul, with utter ruin.
               That night they were all in their usual places in the quaint fire-lighted old
                  sitting-room; there was an attempt at conversation; and the girls, trying to be
                  cheerful, talked now to their father, now to their mother, but seeing that it was
                  no use, began rallying Reuben about a picture of Miss Debby Wyatt, which he had
                  painted on an old biscuit board, much caricatured, but faithfully like her; but
                  Reuben was in one of the dreamiest of his dreamy moods; he just shook back the
                  golden mane that hung about his beautiful face, answered "Yes," and "No," then
                  turned his eyes back to the visions he was beholding amidst the glowing coals, the
                  Sinai where, veiled by smoke and flame, his fancy had many high revealings. At
                  last Mrs. Flemming said:
               "I should think you'd be sleepy, father, after sitting up all night."
               "I expect I shall be pretty soon, mother. You know I am a great sleepy-head," he
                  answered pleasantly.
               "What book was it that interested you so much as to keep your eyes open all
                  night?"
               "It is called 'Milner's End of Controversy.'"
               "I never heard of it before."
               "Nor I, until very lately. I should like, mother, to read portions of it to you if
                  you will listen."
               "Yes, you can read what you like. There's no book belonging to this house, thank
                  God, that can't be read to a Christian
                  family. Is there anything about Luther and Romanism in it?"
               "Much, mother. But there is something I want to read, which is a sequel to what we
                  were talking over last night." Mrs. Flemming, still thinking it was one of the old
                  volumes from their own bookshelves, full of pure doctrine, settled herself to
                  listen while the Elder, sprang his mine—hoping almost against hope that she would
                  hear something that would upset completely the destructive spiritual novelties he
                  had adopted.
               "In the sixth chapter of John, which I read last night, we saw how Jesus Christ
                  instructed His apostles by His express and repeated declarations concerning the
                  nature of the sacrament which He promised them, thereby preparing their minds for
                  the sublime simplicity of His words in instituting it—words which sealed His
                  meaning in the most solemn manner. 'For whilst they were at supper, Jesus took
                     bread and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to his disciples
                  and said: Take ye and eat; THIS IS MY BODY. And taking the cup, He said. Drink ye
                  all of this; FOR THIS IS MY BLOOD OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, WHICH SHALL BE SHED FOR
                  MANY UNTO THE REMISSION OF SINS.'"*
                  
               
                  
                  *Matthew, xxvi, 26, 27, 28.
               
               "Yes," said Mrs. Flemming, "we always hear those words, and solemn words they are,
                  when we go to the table of the Lord; but they mean nothing except that we are to
                  partake of the bread and wine in memory of His sufferings and
                  death."
               "HE does not say that, or mean it," replied the Elder in his calm, deep voice.
                  "The apostle declares that when He took it into His hands it was
                     bread, but when He gave it to them He said: THIS IS MY BODY. He
                  did not say it was bread, or tell them to eat it in commemoration of Him, or
                  intimate that it was a symbol of His passion and death. He said, as He gave them
                  that which had been bread: THIS IS MY BODY. Then, taking the cup, He
                  gave thanks and gave it to them, saying: 'Drink ye all of this, FOR THIS IS MY
                  BLOOD of the new testament, which shall be shed for many unto the remission of
                  sins.' How can we disbelieve this clear and explicit declaration of the Son of
                  God, without accusing Him not only of prevarication but of imposture? thereby
                  bringing Him to naught. It was a solemn moment; it was a time fraught with the
                  consummation of the ransom He was to pay for the salvation of the world, and He
                  was giving into their hands for all time the legacy of His body and blood, which
                  was to be unto all who partook worthily an assurance of everlasting life. Can
                  we—believing in Him as the Eternal Truth—imagine for one instant that on this
                  solemn occasion, and under the stupendous circumstances, He would have given them mere bread, and declared that it
                  was His Body; and mere wine, declaring it to be His Blood?"
               "I couldn't believe such a doctrine to save my life," said Mrs. Flemming
                  excitedly, "nor do I see how any enlightened person can."
               "I can't help believing it. It is all there in the Bible," said Hope.
               "To disbelieve it, it seems to me, would be to lose all faith in our Saviour,"
                  said Eva. "It seems unreasonable to doubt His own actual words, however hard they
                  may be to our understanding. And yet, father," she said, suddenly turning to him,
                  "is it harder to believe this than to believe that the Son of God assumed the
                  flesh and nature of man for our salvation, as He did?"
               "No. Of the great mystery of His Incarnation there was no human witness; all that
                  we know we receive from the lips of the Virgin Mary His Mother; but here in this
                  great sacramental institution we have His own words, repeated without variation,
                  adding to, or taking from, by each of the evangelists, who wrote—as a note here
                  tells me—their gospels in different places and at different times. No Christian
                  doubts the account given by Mary of the Incarnation, yet how many doubt the words
                  of her Son, whom they profess to believe is the Eternal Truth! Strange
                  inconsistency of man!"
               "Did you say there was something about Luther in that book?" asked Mrs. Flemming
                  fidgeting "This discussion is disagreeable, and I should like—if you don't
                  object—to hear something that I can understand."
               "Here is something, mother, about Luther, but I don't know how you'll relish it.
                  'Martin Luther,*
                   in one of his epistles on the subject in question, says: 'I cannot tell
                  you how desirous I was, and how much I have labored in my own mind to overthrow
                  this doctrine of the Real Presence, because,' says he (and let us note his
                  motive,) 'I clearly saw how much I should thereby injure Popery; but I found
                  myself caught, without any way of escaping: for the text of the gospel is too
                  plain for this purpose.' Hence he contined, till his death, to condemn those
                  Protestants who denied the corporal presence, employing for this purpose sometimes
                  the shafts of his coarse ridicule, and sometimes the thunder of his vehement
                  declamation and an athemas.'"†
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Epist. ad Argenten., tom. 4, fol. 502, ed. Wittemburg.
               
               
                  
                  †Milner's End of Controversy, p. 232.
               
               "We are not Lutherans," said Mrs. Flemming sharply.
               "No, not exactly; but you know that Luther is the rallying cry of the Protestant
                  world. They regard him as the apostle of the Reformation, the root of their tree, the founder of their sects.
                  Listen to this," said the Elder, turning back the pages of the book: "'No sooner
                  had Luther set up the tribunal of his private judgment on the sense of the
                  Scriptures, in opposition to the authority of the Church, ancient and modern, than
                  his disciples, proceeding on his principle, undertook to prove from plain texts of
                  the Bible that his own doctrine was erroneous, and that the Reformation itself
                  wanted reforming. Carlostad,*
                   Zuinglius,†
                   Œcolompadius, Muncer,‡
                   and a hundred more of his followers wrote and preached against him and
                  against each other, with the utmost virulence, still each of them professing to
                  ground his doctrine and conduct on the written word of God alone. In vain did
                  Luther claim a superiority over them; in vain did he denounce hell-fire against
                  them, saying: 'I can defend you against the Pope—but when the devil shall urge
                  against you (the heads of these changes) at your death, these passages of
                  Scripture, and when Christ, your Judge, shall say, they ran and I did not
                     send them, how shall you withstand Him? He will plunge you headlong into
                     hell.'*
                   In vain did he threaten to return back to the Catholic religion: 'If you
                  continue,' he says, 'in these measures of your common deliberations, I will recant
                  whatever I have written or said, and leave you. Mind what I say.'†
                   All in vain: for 'he had put the Bible into each man's hand to explain it
                  for himself.' This his followers continued to do in open defiance of him, as we
                  see in his curious challenge to Carlostad to write a book against the Real
                  Presence, when one wishes the other to break his neck, and the other
                  retorts: 'May I sec thee broken on the wheel;'†
                   till their mutual contradictions and discords become so numerous and
                  scandalous as to overwhelm the thinking part of them with grief and
                     confusion.'"§
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Luther's first disciple of distinction. He was Archdeacon of Wittemburg.
                     Declared against Luther, 1521.
               
               
                  
                  †Zuinglius began the Reformation in Switzerland some time after Luther began
                     it in Germany, but taught such doctrine that the latter called him a pagan,
                     and said he despaired of his salvation.
               
               
                  
                  ‡A disciple of Luther, and founder of the Anabaptists, who, in quality of the
                     just, maintained that the property of the wicked belonged to
                     them, quoting the second beatitude: "Blessed are the meek for they shall
                     possess the land." Muncer wrote to several of the German princes to give up
                     their lands to him, and at the head of forty thousand of his followers
                     marched to enforce the demand.
               
               
                  
                  *Oper., tom. vii, fol. 274.
               
               
                  
                  †Oper., tom. vii, fol. 276, ed. Wittemb.
               
               
                  
                  †Variat., b. ii, n. 12.
               
               
                  
                  §Milner's End of Controversy, p. 36.
               
               "That seems to be a curious sort of book. Elder Flemming, tell me where you got
                  it?" said Mrs. Flemming, with indignation too big for words.
               "This book," he answered, speaking slowly, "which has been 'as a lamp to my feet,'
                  as a guide showing me the way, and
                  making the crooked paths straight, was left upon my desk by the Irish pedler,
                  McCue, the morning he went away. I threw it into the desk, determined to send it
                  back to him, little dreaming what a treasure it was, or that in it I should find
                  comfort and enlightenment, until last night in turning over my papers I came
                  across it and opened it. The very first words I read arrested my attention, and I
                  sat up all night reading it; and the result of this reading is that from that hour
                  I am a Catholic—a Roman Catholic."
               Again Mrs. Flemming felt that tightening around her throat; she could only gasp:
                  "I knew it. I knew that Irish Papist was at the bottom of it. Wolfert Flemming, I
                  know that you are a hard-headed man, and that once you have made up your mind to a
                  thing there's no power on earth can change you; I've no hope to do so, but I tell
                  you you've broken my heart and ruined your family; mark my words—you have."
               "Neither, I hope, little wife. All I ask of you is to give this matter a cool,
                  intelligent investigation, earnestly praying the while to be enlightened."
               "Enlightened!" repeated Mrs. Flemming with sarcastic emphasis.
               "As it regards all else concerning earthly prosperity and the like, I have counted
                  the cost and made up my mind—made it up fully. It would be small profit to me to
                  gain the whole world if I lose my own soul," said Wolfert Flemming
                  emphatically.
               "But why need you lose your soul?" she asked; you have always been a good man,
                  serving God."
               "According to the light I had, mother, I tried to serve God; but I have felt for
                  years past that there was something wanting. I was not satisfied; and now that I
                  have discovered a true, soul-satisfying faith, one which every faculty of my mind
                  responds to as divine and necessary for my salvation, I shall—nay, I do embrace
                  it, counting all things nought for it. It is the way for me, and if I should try
                  to climb up by any other I should be like a thief and a robber, and be cast
                  down."
               "I, dear father," said Eva, "should be glad to know something of a religion which
                  seems so vital and sublime that all things are counted but nothing for the sake of
                  it. May I read that book?"
               "And I too, father," said Hope. "All that I have heard sounds like truth."
               "To save time," replied the Elder, while his eyes brightened with a tender light
                  as he looked at the two fair earnest faces of his daughters turned with confiding
                  love towards him, "I will read it aloud every night to you. Then we can talk it
                  over as we read."
               "That will be much better," replied Hope.
               
               "Although I don't expect to become a Catholic I should like to hear what Catholics
                  do really believe."
               "I suppose," said Mrs. Flemming, "you won't forget that you are to see Deacon
                  Sneathen on Monday about that business."
               "No, indeed. I shall have everything ready, mother, and it will all be fixed by
                  Monday night; then, sometime during the week, I shall have to go up to the Pines.
                  Reuben, did the Deacon say he'd come here, or am I to go there?"
               "He didn't say, father," answered Reuben. "He only said he'd see you."
               "I haven't seen John Wilde either, for a week; where is he, Hope?" asked Mrs.
                  Flemming.
               "He went to Boston, mother, to buy furniture and carpets, and won't be back for a
                  week or two," answered Hope, blushing.
               "I should like to know what he'll think of all this!" said Mrs.
                  Flemming to herself. "Popery, of all things in the world, to come into this
                  household! I do believe it will kill me."
               Hope and Reuben went to meeting with their mother on the following Sabbath. Eva
                  remained at home to read and converse with her father on the all-important subject
                  which engrossed his thoughts, and which now also claimed her deepest attention.
                  Mrs. Flemming carried a heavy heart with her into the old Congregational
                  meeting-house house that day. She already felt some of the grief arising from a
                  "divided house." How could she face the congregation, knowing all that she did?
                  knowing too that the most of them—her neighbors and friends—would miss her husband
                  from his accustomed place, and begin to wonder at his absence, and ask her all
                  sorts of questions before she got home; questions which she could not fully evade
                  or set aside. She almost wished that the Indian woman had choked her to death, to
                  have been spared this unspeakable trial.
               Father Ray missed the Elder as soon as he arose in the pulpit and cast his eyes
                  over the congregation. Deacon Sneathen glanced round, then up and down, hoping to
                  see his old friend somewhere; Miss Debby deliberately mounted her large
                  tortoise-shell spectacles upon her nose, and took a long stare through them at his
                  empty seat, then cocked her chin a degree higher than usual and fixed her eyes
                  with a supercilious expression on Mrs. Flemming. I am sorry to say that Reuben,
                  who noticed her impertinence, was very much tempted to make a face at her; but he
                  resolutely turned away so that he could not see her; while Hope, who had also
                  observed her offensive manner, fixed her calm, grey eyes for a moment steadfastly
                  on her, then lifted them to the old minister who in tremulous tones was giving out
                  the hymn.
               
               Father Ray had a sermon prepared íor the day and occasion; but when he discovered
                  that Wolfert Flemming—whom he loved as David loved Jonathan—was again absent, his
                  heart misgave him; he felt sure that the man had at length yielded to the doubts
                  which had so long beset him, and delivered in the place of it a startling
                  discourse on the perils of backsliding and apostasy, which he wound up by
                  describing with quaint eloquence the wretched plight of those disciples who after
                  having been the friends and companions of Jesus,—who had listened to His words,
                  and perhaps daily touched His hand and held sweet converse with Him,—turned away
                  at last and left Him, because all that He said did not exactly suit their ideas
                  and comprehension, and walked with Him no more. "They thought," said the old man,
                  "that he meant that He was going to give them His own body and blood to eat; when,
                  if they had been patient and staid where they were, if they had been more humble
                  and faithful, they would have found out their mistake, and understood that their
                  Lord spoke in a figurative sense; but no! in the pride and conceit of their hearts
                  they turned their backs upon Him, and it is only reasonable to suppose that they
                  were given over to perdition; for, brethren, we all know that the condition of a
                  backslider is ten thousand times worse than his first state of sin." The old man's
                  utterances were full of blended ire and pathos, and Mrs. Flemming felt every word
                  like a blow as she sat there listening to her husband's condemnation; with all a
                  woman's keen sensitive perceptions she understood the whole drift of his meaning.
                  But, when the time came, she went up with the rest to receive the bread and wine
                  of what her sect call the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper; and when she took the
                  bread, and heard the words THIS IS MY BODY, a thrill, an awe, such as she had
                  never felt before, passed swiftly like an electric shock through her heart; and
                  when the minister presented the cup, saying, "Drink ye all of this, for this is my
                  blood of the New Testament which shall be shed for many unto the remission of
                  sins," her impulse was to thrust it from her and run from the place; for suppose,
                  after all, her husband was right? But then she remembered that it was really
                  nothing but common bread and wine, simply set apart for this occasion; all that
                  was left over, after the rite, being generally given to the sexton's wife to make
                  toast out of, and season her puddings with. Then, trying to think that it
                  symbolized and commemorated the death of the Saviour, she drank a few drops, and
                  the cup was passed on.
               After the congregation was dismissed, and they were all standing outside waiting
                  for their chaises and wagonettes to be brought round, everybody came up with inquiries about the Elder. "Was he
                  ill?"—"Did he have to go to the Pines again?'—"Where was he?"—"Why was he not at
                  meeting?"—"It was the fourth Sacrament day that he was absent; what could it mean?
                  they thought.
               Mrs. Flemming stood her ground bravely, saying as little as she could, consistent
                  with the truth, yet enough to give them to understand some of the facts of the
                  case. "No; Elder Flemming was not ill," she said to one; "he is in excellent
                  health." "He is not at the Pines," she answered another; "he is at home." "He did
                  not come to meeting," she said to a third, "because he preferred staying at home;"
                  but to the last query, made by Deacon Sneathen, she replied stiffly: "He is not
                  here, because he has changed his opinion on some doctrinal points which he thinks
                  erroneous, and I guess he'll break off altogether from the old lines." Her voice
                  quavered, and she had nearly broke down, but the brave, loving little soul was
                  determined that—no matter what she might feel at liberty to say
                     to her husband—they should all find themselves mistaken if they
                  expected her to stand still while they pulled him to pieces in her presence. So
                  she acted on the defensive. Deacon Sneathen grew purple in the face, and was
                  seized with vertigo, which sent him staggering against the horse-block; Miss Debby
                  cocked up her chin in the most aggressive manner, and cleared her throat in such a
                  tumultuous way that several persons ran towards her, thinking she was strangling;
                  meanwhile Mrs. Flemming and Hope stepped into the chaise, and Reuben drove briskly
                  off. Before they were out of sight, every man, woman, and child there knew that
                  Elder Flemming was a backslider. If Mrs. Flemming had told them that he had turned
                  Papist, I am at a loss to imagine to what heights their excitement would have
                  risen.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               SACRIFICE.
               I WAS sitting one summer evening in a pavilion built upon a bluff overhanging the
                  sea, watching the long lines of surf, as the strong swift billows of the Atlantic
                  swept shoreward over the bars, and listening with mingled awe and delight to their
                  reverberating thunders as they burst in creamy whiteness upon the shingly beach,
                  roaring and raving with impotent fury at the failure of their assault on the dry
                  land, as driven by the invisible and inexorable power which let them "come so far
                  and no farther," they rushed backwards like a routed army, their only spoils the
                  scattered driftwood wood and sea-weed
                  deposited along the shore by the last flood tide. As the tumultuous sounds
                  subsided into low and more distant mutterings, there rose above me the wild sweet
                  song of a bird which was brooding on its nest under some carved wood-work on the
                  apex of the roof. It sang, or seemed to sing, in ecstasy of peace, gazing out the
                  while at the rose-tinted clouds, the turbulent ocean and the rocking ships; and
                  the sounds fell upon my heart like balm; but presently the booming and bursting of
                  the surf below drowned the flute-like symphonies, and I feared that I should hear
                  them no more; but when the defeated billows were again dragged back moaning and
                  sobbing, I distinguished through the din a faint sweet trill: then as they receded
                  still farther, leaving a short interval of quiet, the wild wondrous music floated
                  out again in rich fulness, and I knew that it had not been hushed, but that the
                  bird had been singing on as heedless of the thunders of the sea as of the
                  stillness of the land.
               The little bird singing there on the edge of the noisy turbulent ocean was like
                  the peace that had made its abode in the soul of Wolfert Flemming. Disturbing
                  elements clamored around him, and there were moments when his own nature beat like
                  great waves against his soul, and his out-look in the future seemed so dim and
                  stormy that although though the sweet singer, brooding in its depths, never ceased
                  murmuring blissful hymns of peace, he should not hear them, but when the discords
                  of life and nature ceased, they thrilled through every avenue of his being,
                  consoling him with the sublime consciousness that his faith was at last and indeed
                  anchored on the eternal Rock of Ages. And in this deep peace, he learned to
                  "possess his soul in patience," knowing that however tempestuously the waves might
                  beat against him, however angrily they might threaten him, they could come just so
                  far and no farther; and his great trusting heart looked up, and was glad.
               After the trial which his wife's distress of mind on account of his change of
                  faith caused him—and it was not a light one—he thought that nothing could pain or
                  disturb him to the same degree, but he was mistaken. Old Father Ray came down to
                  see him, losing no time. He came on Monday morning, and with a countenance in
                  which severity struggled with an expression of sorrow which he could not conceal,
                  he entered the house, returning the welcome greeting he received by cold, curt
                  salutations.
               "I have come to see your father," he said to Hope, "and I wish to see him
                  alone."
               "I will go and fetch my father directly. He is out somewhere on the farm," replied
                  Hope, folding up her work. And she went
                  out, leaving him alone with her mother.
               "And you, Martha Flemming, how is it with you in these times of faithlessness?" he
                  asked in quavering tones.
               "There is no change in me. I am satisfied with pure gospel doctrine," she answered
                  stiffly; then a flood of thoughts came surging through her mind, and with a low
                  cry of anguish, she sobbed: "Oh, Father Ray! Father Ray! it will kill me. My
                  husband has turned papist!"
               The old man was startled and nearly frightened by such an unexpected outburst of
                  emotion, and if she had said, "My husband has turned infidel," he could not have
                  felt a more deathlike sickness at his heart; but it was impossible to sit silent
                  in the face of such a sorrow as this, and making an effort to collect his
                  scattered wits, he began to utter some consolatory words, when Wolfert Flemming's
                  footsteps sounded along the passage, and she hastily left the room before he
                  entered it.
               No one was present at this interview. Mr. Flemming led his guest away to his
                  little work-room, and they shut themselves in. There for three hours they talked
                  together. Now and then the old minister's voice arose in loud expostulatory tones;
                  then he pleaded and denounced alternately, and as he grew more excited its thin
                  treble sounded like a shriek, and sometimes sunk into hoarse trembling whispers,
                  for throughout the interview every moment convinced him of the utter futility of
                  arguing the case with this man who—grave, calm and assured—had scripture, reason,
                  history, and, above all, faith, with which to rebut and crush out al that he could
                  say; this man whose sense of religion was so pure, whose moral nature was so
                  grand, whose conscience was so upright, and whose very earnestness impressed even
                  him—angry as he was—with the perfect sincerity of his belief in the strange and
                  incomprehensible doctrines he had adopted; doctrines which to his darkened and
                  narrow mind were "damnable idolatries." Baffled and wounded—for as we have said
                  elsewhere, old Father Ray loved Wolfert Flemming as a father loves his first
                  born—and full of bitterness, he gave up the contest and left him; remembering the
                  doom of Ephraim, who was joined to his idols, he "let him alone," and shaking the
                  dust of his house from his feet he went out, refusing Flemming's offered hand, and
                  mounting his horse rode slowly away feeling as if a gulf had suddenly opened and
                  swallowed the last earthly happiness of his life, destroying the one mortal tie
                  that above all others he had held most dear for time and eternity.
               "That's what's come of it all," said Mrs. Flemming bitterly, as she and Eva and
                  Hope stood at the window looking after
                  the old minister. She saw him refuse her husband's hand, and almost imagined that
                  the words she saw him uttering, but could not distinguish, were curses, for there
                  was no blessing in the look he cast back to the house, no relenting in his hard
                  pinched features, which they saw as he wheeled his horse around to ride homewards.
                  She watched her husband as he stood motionless and almost breathless on the spot
                  where the old man had parted from him, then turned to come into the house, and she
                  saw that his features were pale and set, that his lips were compressed, and that
                  his eyes, over which his heavy brows hung lowering, had a steely gleam in them she
                  had never seen there before: then she knew that he had had a fierce struggle in
                  his inner life and that his powers of endurance had been taxed to their utmost. He
                  poured out a flagon full of cool water which had just come from the spring, and
                  drank it every drop; then stood a few moments, his elbow leaning against the
                  window frame, looking out through the budding vines, at the distant mountain
                  ridges edged with sunshine and the deep calm blue of the heavens beyond; and the
                  passion waves subsided within him, and he heard the sweet whispers of faith and
                  peace. He did not refer to his stormy interview with Father Ray; indeed he did not
                  speak at all, until, as he was leaving the room, he stopped for an instant beside
                  Mrs. Flemming's chair, and laying his hand tenderly upon her head, said: "Mother,
                  I am going down with the men to harrow in the oats; if Deacon Sneathen comes, send
                  for me."
               "Very well," she replied coldly, even while her heart was full of wifely pity for
                  him, dashed with anger that she could not help. "Deacon Sneathen, indeed!" she
                  added, as he left the room; "mark my words, girls, Deacon Sneathen won't come; see
                  if he does!"
               "I hope he will," answered Hope. "I don't see why he shouldn't. My father's change
                  of religion can't affect the business in which they've been engaged in so many
                  years. I think it will be a most unreasonable thing in the Deacon to break off his
                  connection with father, because—"Hope hesitated a moment, and then added bravely,
                  "he has become a Catholic."
               "Where is Reuben!" asked Mrs. Flemming, sharply, to change the conversation, for
                  every reference to her husband's change of faith was like a stab. "Where can that
                  boy be?"
               "I don't know, mother," replied Eva, "I have not seen Ruby since breakfast time. I
                  hope he is not going to have a sick turn; I thought he looked very white this
                  morning."
               "So he did; I noticed it too. Do go, Hope, and find out if any of them have seen him," said Mrs.
                  Flemming anxiously, "I can't tell what makes Ruby so ailing all the time." Then
                  Mrs. Flemming went up to the weaving room and sat down to think—not of Reuben and
                  his feeble, useless life, which generally caused her much anxious concern—but of
                  the heavy trial which had fallen upon her, which she almost imagined to be a
                  judgment from heaven to punish her for having been too proud of her husband, and
                  for having loved him too entirely.
               But Reuben could not be found; no one had seen him since early in the morning, and
                  each one of the family began to feel seriously uneasy about him. Dinner time came
                  and passed, and still he did not come. Mr. Flemming and his men came in at sunset,
                  but there were no tidings of Reuben; and urged by his mother, who was half
                  distracted by her anxious fears, they were making preparations to go in search of
                  him, when he glided in like a ghost out of the twilight, and sunk down on the old
                  oak settle by the fire, pale, speechless, and exhausted. They set to sponging his
                  face with vinegar, rubbing his hands, and feeding him with elderberry wine, which
                  revived him, then they began to question him all together in such a chorus of
                  sounds and confusion of words, that he burst out laughing, although he was still
                  too weak to answer them.
               "You're all right now, Ruby," said Eva, kissing his forehead.
               'But where in the world have you been, Reuben? Do tell! To give me such a fright!"
                  said Mrs. Flemming, sitting down and folding her hands on her lap while she looked
                  at him, puzzled beyond expression by idiosyncrasies which made the boy's life a
                  perpetual mystery to her. "You should not have done so!"
               "I didn't intend to, mammy, indeed I didn't," he answered, disarming her anger at
                  once by the tender, sweet appellative which he always used as a shield and
                  defence, whenever he wanted to propitiate her, or when she was displeased with him
                  "I went straggling around, digging and poking among the thorn bushes, and turning
                  over big rocks searching for something I wanted, until I got so far from home that
                  I thought I should never be able to get back."
               "What in the land's name were you hunting up, child? I never did see the like of
                  you in my life!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming.
               "Gold, I guess," said Hope, laughing.
               "No," said the boy, gravely, "I was searching for soft stone."
               "Now do tell! Why!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming, quite exasperated at what she
                  considered his extreme foolishness. "I do think, Reuben, of all your vagaries, this one beats. Soft stone! But
                  listen now to what I have to say. I will have no more such shiftless doings, and
                  sinful waste of time. You can't work; you're really not strong enough; and you
                  shall help me in the dairy, and learn how to spin. Indeed you shall. I will
                  positively put a stop to this aimless sort of a life. Soft stone, indeed!"
               "But there is soft stone; mother, I have read about it, and how to
                  find it, and I shall keep on looking for it, too," answered Reuben, a little
                  crestfallen, and a little doggedly.
               "I guess you learnt that out of the book the Irish pedler gave you.
                  It would be just like the rest. Soft stone! When you find it, let me know; maybe
                  it will do to stuff the pillows with." Reuben was silent. He knew that he might as
                  well be, and he was very tired; so he leaned back, closing his eyes, and seemed to
                  doze, she watching him all the while. Then she lifted up his long tapering hand,
                  as fair and white as a woman's, and laying it across her own, sat looking
                  thoughtfully at it, and like one speaking in her sleep, said: "It is exactly like
                  the hand in the old portrait of my great grandmother, Lady Pendarvis;" then she
                  smoothed it, and folded it against her heart with an indescribable yearning for
                  this gifted, half helpless, and best beloved one of her children. Reuben was not
                  asleep, and he raised himself up and put his arms about her, and leaning his head
                  upon her shoulder, said: "I'd like to find it, little mammy. I want it for
                  something great."
               "Have you eaten anything to-day, Ruby?" she asked, while she smoothed back the
                  golden tangles from his face. "No! Get up, and let me hurry them with supper." And
                  forgetting her great sorrow for the time, the busy little woman began to bustle
                  around, and presently left the room.
               "Did you hear what mother said about the old portrait?" said Hope. "This is the
                  first time I ever heard the proud-looking old lady's name. Mother never mentioned
                  it, and I thought she was one of the dead and gone Mrs. Babsons."
               "So did I. Lady Pendarvis! That sounds quite grand!" said Eva, laughing.
               "It is just like mother's old 'Mayflower' pride never to have spoken of it. Maybe
                  she thought it might make us vain or proud to know that we have noble English
                  blood in our veins," said Hope.
               "All the blood of all the nobility on earth could not make a nobler man than my
                  father," answered Eva. "I'm prouder of him than of old Lady Pendarvis, even if she
                  were of the blood royal."
               "So am I," said Hope. Then they fell to talking of the old portrait, and Hope
                  remembered to have heard her father tell some one, years before, that the original had been a zealous
                  persecutor of the English Puritans and had disinherited her only child for
                  marrying one; and that the picture had not been kept out of reverence for her
                  memory, but because it was painted by Hans Holbein, and considered to be a master
                  piece of art, besides which the picture itself was remarkably beautiful.
                  "And"—whispered Eva, looking towards Reuben, who was now really asleep—"Ruby is
                  the living image of her. Well! mother has good reason for being a little spiteful.
                  It seems a little like retribution that Lady Pendarvis' portrait should have been
                  hanging against the walls of a Puritan house all these years. I wonder it has not
                  walked out of its frame; and her very name not known to her descendants."
               "Suppose now, Eva, just suppose that she was a Catholic?" suggested Hope.
               "Why! how strange it would be! I should like to ask mother, but dare not. Poor
                  little mother, she is so troubled!" replied Eva.
               Deacon Sneathen did not come to see about the partnership. It was too late for him
                  to come now, and Wolfret Flemming's face wore an expression of anxiety and
                  gravity; he felt, somehow, that difficulties from unexpected quarters were
                  beginning to gather around him. Mrs. Flemming tried to think that something had
                  happened to prevent the Deacon's keeping his engagement; but she had her
                  suspicious, and bitter ones they were; however, she made no remark; and although
                  the girls had a vague feeling of uneasiness on the subject, they did not refer to
                  it in any way, but exerted themselves to be cheerful, efforts which their mother
                  could not refrain from uniting in when she saw the look of care on her husband's
                  countenance and knew what it boded.
               That night Wolfert Flemming began to read aloud "Milner's End of Controversy" to
                  his family. Hope and Eva, with their sewing, brought their chairs closer to him,
                  and listened with the deepest interest. Mrs. Flemming hurried Reuben off to his
                  room to bathe his feet and go to bed, he being feverish after his day's tramp, and
                  she did not return until prayer time.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               LETTERS.
               IT did not take long for such news to spread, and if Wolfert Flemming's old
                  friends and neighbors had heard that he had been transformed into a fiery dragon,
                  they would not have been more wonderstruck and dismayed than they were when they
                  learned that he had become a Papist. Papist is not a pleasant word, being a term of reproach
                  always used by our separated brethren when they wish to be particularly and
                  emphatically bitter against Catholics; but it was a word they understood as
                  meaning all that they had been educated to dread and despise in religion; nor
                  could they have comprehended the word Catholic, as applied to the spiritual
                     bete-noir which they called Popery, to have
                  saved their lives; hence these good people thought that their Elder had given
                  himself up body and soul to certain destruction. There had never been such an
                  excitement in that quiet romantic region since the old Indian scalping times, and
                  the old Puritan witch-burning and ear-cropping days! Some believed the report; and
                  some grieved and astonished, refused to credit it. Some' mean little souls, who
                  had always secretly envied the man his good fame, which set him by tacit consent
                  above them, were glad, and inwardly rejoiced; others were sorry because they
                  feared such an example would scandalize the weak and set them to running after
                  novelties; others deplored it, because they had sincerely loved and reverenced his
                  strong, guileless character, and could not bear the idea of severing their
                  intercourse with him, a thing which, under the circumstances, they would feel
                  bound to do; while to many the event afforded a new and highly spiced subject for
                  gossip. But the limits of my narrative restrain me from describing the excitement.
                  All who knew anything at all about the sentiment of the New England of that day
                  against the Catholic religion, can imagine it more vividly than any words could
                  paint it. I must confine myself to the effect it had upon those who were
                  immediately connected with the Flemmings.
               Deacon Sneathen was one of the first to hear the tidings. He was at the old
                  minister's house when he got home that day from his stormy interview with Wolfert
                  Flemming: had stopped on his way down to the Old Homestead, to keep his engagement
                  about the partnership, to ask Father Ray some confidential questions in relation
                  to the erratic state of mind the Elder seemed to be in about religious matters,
                  and heard more than he had counted on; for the minister, still smarting under the
                  hurt of what had passed on that occasion, told him all about it in pretty strong
                  language But the Deacon, never remarkably quick, got so bewildered and confused
                  that he could not follow him, or clearly comprehend what he was talking about;
                  until by dint of questioning him at every few words the facts of the case began to
                  dawn upon his dull understanding, when the most fanatical wrath and enmity against
                  his old friend took possession of him. There's a saying that "it takes a surgical operation to get an idea in
                  the head of certain people," and Deacon Sneathen was one of that unfortunate
                  class, with this difference: when the idea did get into his head, it took full
                  possession of him, to the exclusion of every other, and became the motive power of
                  his being. He understood it all now. His old friend and former partner in
                  business, the man whose son his only daughter expected to marry, the man whom he
                  had always looked up to, and likened in his own mind to one of the apostles, had
                  gone and turned Papist! Here was a pivot to turn on, and he forthwith began to
                  spin. The first thing he did, when there was nothing more to be said between
                  Father Ray and himself on the subject, was to go home instead of keeping on down
                  to the Flemmings'; his next was to go straight up into his room after he got
                  there, and, after locking himself in, sit down to the heavy task of inditing and
                  writing a letter. "Joe Gargery's" efforts were nothing to his. He felt as if he
                  would burst, and couldn't get a word right. He was confused by two personalities.
                  Elder Flemming the Puritan, and Elder Flemming the Papist! Elder Flemming the
                  burning and shining light of their congregation, and Flemming given over to
                  Antichrist! Elder Flemming his friend and partner, and the Flemming that he
                  intended to throw over at all risks! The nearness of all their previous relations
                  made the task more difficult; and the more he thought it over, the worse he
                  floundered. He spoilt nearly two dozen sheets of paper. He broke out in a cold
                  perspiration, and felt as if bees were humming in his ears, and jerked about in
                  his chair until the buttons of his suspenders flew off. Then he got up and opened
                  a little cupboard in the wall, took down a dusty-looking bottle, and poured but a
                  tumbler full of clear, amber-colored, oily liquid, which he drank, with his eyes
                  rolled up to the ceiling as if he were praying; then hastily restoring the things
                  to their receptacle, he locked them up, put the key into his waistcoat pocket,
                  washed his mouth, and with his courage renewed "like an eagle's," he sat down and
                  wrote the following:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              ELM COTTAGE, March 28th.
                           
                           W. FLEMMING: Sir, Sence I herd that you have forsook the true Gospil
                              religin in which you wor bred and born, and hevjined the ranks of
                              Antichrist, I dont feel willing to renoo the pardnership. If you will
                              give up poppery and be what you was before in the house of the Lord, I
                              am willing to let the bisness goon as it wor, which you must let me
                              know. But if not I will take into pardnership a Bosting man with a big
                              capitol, that will put up Steam Sawmills at the Pines, and has a gift
                              in prayer, for which latter the Lord will prosper the bisness.
                           
                              Your obedient servant to command,
                              SHADRACH SNEATHEN.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was the ridiculous missive which was to carry consternation into the camp of
                  the Flemmings, and its results were as effective as if it had been written in the most stately English, interlarded
                  with legal clauses in Latin. Broken glass and bits of rusty iron can do as mortal
                  execution as minnie balls, if fired with true aim; so the Deacon's bad sample of
                  orthography, etymology, syntax, and prosody, did not fall a hair-breadth short of
                  his intentions when it reached its destination. But I will not anticipate. When
                  Deacon Sneathen at last finished his letter, without a single blot, or a word
                  scratched out, he read it over and felt very proud of it, and would like to have
                  read it out in meeting; but as that was impracticable, and his vanity was
                  hungering and thirsting to display his epistolary talent to some one, he unlocked
                  his door, and went down stairs into the kitchen where his sister and Huldah were
                  making doughnuts, pies, and other comforting things for the stomach, and after
                  telling them the news he unfolded the letter. Miss Debby, her arms covered with
                  flour and her hands stuck up with soft dough which hung down from her fingers like
                  fringe, dropped breathless into a chair, her chin in the air and her whole being
                  thrilled with a delightful excitement, exclaiming: "Du tell neow!" It was all that
                  she could say. For once in her life she was bereft of volubility of speech. Huldah
                  was standing with a spoonfull of stewed pumpkin in her hand, just ready to drop
                  into the light shell of flaky paste she had prepared for it, when the news burst
                  like a petard among the Penates of the hearth; and so she stood motionless with
                  surprise and grief, the color mounting in crimson flushes to her face, and her
                  handsome eyes flashing fire, while the Deacon read his letter.
               "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, father, to write such a letter as that to
                  Elder Flemming!" she exclaimed, when with a flourish of his hand he finished
                  reading it.
               "Wal, neow!" he said, looking amazed, "how dare you speak so to me?"
               "Because I am ashamed of you!" she repeated, rapping the large spoon upon the
                  table until the stewed pumpkin flew round in every direction. "To go and write a
                  letter like that, to such a man as Elder Flemming, and throw him over because he's
                  gone and done what he has a right to do if he wants to. Popery can't be so bad a
                  thing, if he's taken it up; and whatever it is, I think it must be better than
                  your religion, which will let you go and do such a thing to a good man, and your
                  old friend too."
               "I'll box your ears, you sarcy jade," responded the Deacon, quite purple in the
                  face.
               "No you won't!" she answered, fearless of consequences, in her zeal for the
                  friends so dearly loved and so unjustly injured. "I'd like to know what the battle
                  of Lexington and Bunker Hill, and all the other battles that you all make such spread-eagles over, training days and
                  Independence Day, were tought for, if it wa'n't for liberty of conscience, and to
                  keep people from being hung and quartered, if they happen not to be Puritans? What
                  right have you got to meddle with Elder Flemming, even if he was to turn Pagan or
                  Jew, so long as he don't cheat you, which you know he has never done?"
               "Huldy, hold your tongue. I'll have no Papist in my business, nor in my family
                  either; do you hear that?" he exclaimed, loosening his neckcloth.
               "Yes, father, I hear you," she replied, defiantly. "I hear you; but that does not
                  change my opinion in the least. And if you don't take care, you will
                  have one in your family more than you count on."
               "Huldy Sneathen!" said Miss Debby, holding up her dough-fringed hands, "I wonder
                  the bears don't rush down from the mountings and devour you! To talk so to your
                  father, who is doing nothing but a righteous act."
               "If the bears ever eat me, aunty, it will be when they come after you and get
                  scared at the looks of you. Bears don't like skin and bone," said Huldah, with a
                  saucy, angry laugh.
               "Wal, neow! I'd like to know!" gasped Miss Debby, white with rage.
               "Father," said Huldah, laying down the spoon, and speaking more gently and
                  gravely, "don't send that letter to Elder Flemming. I am sorry I
                  spoke saucily to you, if that will do any good; but don't send it."
               "Don't meddle with what don't concern you, Huldy," answered the Deacon, refolding
                  the letter. "It's to go."
               "Huldy Sneathen, you're a sassy piece of goods; and I reckon if it wasn't for Nick
                  Flemming you wouldn't be so dretfully cut up," at last broke out Miss Debby.
               "It will make no difference between me and Nick, whatever happens; depend upon
                  that. I'd marry Nick Flemming if he was the Pope himself," she exclaimed, her
                  handsome eyes flashing with anger. "And I tell you again, father, you ought to be
                  ashamed of yourself to do such a thing as you are going to do." Then she turned
                  her back on them, her heart throbbing passionately and tears blinding her as she
                  pretended to busy herself over her pies.
               Miss Debby whispered something to the Deacon as he went towards the door, and he
                  stopped to consider for a moment, then said: "I say, Huldy, don't be going down to
                  Flemming's any more. I won't allow it."
               The girl turned round and looked at her father, her face pale now, and a look in
                  it as if she did not quite comprehend him.
               "What did you say, father?"
               
               "I say you are not to go to Flemming's any more," he repeated.
               "Father!" she replied, looking straight into his eyes, while her thin nostrils
                  expanded, and the color came back in hues of brightest carnation to her cheeks and
                  lips. "Your command is both unreasonable and cruel, and I won't obey it. I shall
                  go to see the Flemmings as long as they will let me come."
               "I do admire to see such impidence! I'd lock you up, and keep you on bread and
                  water," exclaimed Miss Debby, in an ecstasy of anger.
               "Try it—any of you," answered Huldah, turning her back once more. The Deacon,
                  almost suffocated with excitement, went out without another word, to send his
                  letter away by a messenger on horseback, that it might the sooner reach its
                  destination; and Miss Debby began a severe lecture, which Huldah put a stop to by
                  telling her if she did not hold her tongue she would turn her out of the kitchen
                  and lock the door; and as Miss Debby knew that her niece had not only the spirit
                  but strength to put her threat into execution, she sniffed, took a good long stare
                  at the girl, standing there with such a determined look as if only waiting for the
                  slightest provocation to do as she said, gave her chin an extra elevation, cleared
                  her throat vociferously, and said "It is wasting breath to talk to you, Huldy
                  Sneathen;" then held her peace.
               Huldah did not behave at all like a model young lady in defying her father, and
                  threatening her aunt as she did; but her nature had been engaged, ever since she
                  could remember, in a life-long conflict with an injudicious training, which
                  instead of crushing had developed the spontaneity of her impulsive character; and
                  if she had not propriety on her side in this instance, she had justice.
                  Particularly improper—if she had only known it—was her allusion to the Pope; but
                  she only meant to let them know, in the strongest terms she could put it, that she
                  would marry Nicholas Flemming if he were ten thousand times Catholic.
               The next day the Deacon received the following reply to his letter:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              April 10th.
                              SHADRACH SNEATHEN,
                           
                           SIR: Your letter informing me of your decision in relation to the
                              partnership hitherto existing between us is received. The accounts of
                              Sneathen & Flemming are all balanced and can be closed at once. My
                              son Nicholas has my authority to settle up my share of the concern.
                              Respectfully yours,
                           
                              WOLFERT FLEMMING.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "He's jined to his idols," muttered the Deacon, who felt much crestfallen as he
                  read and re-read the brief note; "and he's too proud even to thank me for the
                  offer I made him. In fact, he don't notice it any way. Wal! I've done my
                  duty."
               
               Flemming's religion was too far above all sordidness to be dragged into the mire
                  by such an offer as Deacon Sneathen had made him; he did not give it a second
                  thought in connection with the business, the loss of which, it is true, would
                  bring upon him a crowd of cares and anxieties and pecuniary troubles, which he
                  scarcely dared to think of; much less did he listen to the faintest whisper of
                  temptation to compromise his faith for worldly gain—his faith, for which he was
                  prepared, if needs be, to sacrifice all. Then he wrote another letter, this one to
                  Patrick McCue, in which he told him of the great change wrought in his religious
                  sentiments by the book he had left him, thanked him with eloquent sincerity for
                  the gift which had been productive of such great results to him, and asked him to
                  select other Catholic books, doctrinal and devotional, and forward the package to
                  him by the stage. He enclosed fifteen dollars, and though he did not know that it
                  would ever reach him, he did not even know that the pedler was in Boston, he
                  thought it something worth the risk; and asking the blessing of Almighty God on
                  his intention, he rode over to Wier's Landing, the nearest post-office, where he
                  mailed his letter. Then he wrote to Nicholas, informing him of the events and
                  changes that had so recently occurred, and directed him to wind up their business
                  at the Pines as speedily as possible and return home.
               It was a day of surprises to Nicholas Flemming, who had never received more than
                  one or two letters in his life, to get three in one day; one from his father,
                  which alone would have given him enough to think over for six months to come; one
                  from Deacon Sneathen, telling him that he withdrew his consent to his marriage
                  with his daughter, "Huldy," and ordered him not to visit her any more. The
                  grotesque pigeon-English of the Deacon would have made Nick Flemming laugh if it
                  had not been for the terrible things it meant, being nothing less than the
                  destruction of his best earthly hopes and the wrecking of a career just begun. The
                  third letter was from Huldah, written in a storm of anger and affection, which
                  really did make him laugh and cry together.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You know, Nick," she wrote, "that it is no use to mind father or Aunt
                              Deb. either. I don't. I never did. I know exactly what
                                 she's after, for she's been nagging me about it ever
                              since Eva threw George Merrill over; but it won't do, although she has
                              succeeded in talking father over to her plans. Not all the George
                              Merrills in the world, if every one of them wore a crown, and had
                              Alladeen's lamp to boot, could induce me to change my mind. I don't care a snap; and if
                              you don't want to be off, I am
                           
                              "Affectionately and faithfully yours,
                              "HULDAH."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Nicholas Flemming had never in all his life experienced such an excitement.
                  "Here," thought he, "is trouble in a heap. My father, of all men in the world, to
                  go and turn Catholic; the business broken up, and I ordered not to see Hulda, whom
                  I have loved ever since she was a little girl! A pretty kettle of fish for a man
                  to jump into. I wonder if I am awake? Yes, I am wide awake. That pinch convinces
                  me that I am not dreaming. I suppose there's trouble enough at home among them
                  all; and there's my poor little mother! I wonder how she takes it?
                  She hasn't much love for Papists, I know that. My father is right to do what he
                  pleases with his own soul—but, by George! it's mighty inconvenient! I know that he
                  must have had weighty and good reasons for what he has done! * * * Whew!" Then
                  Nicholas Flemming doubled up one fist, and holding the Deacon's letter in the palm
                  of his other hand he pounded it, then tore it into small bits and scattered them
                  on the cold gusty air. Then he went into his hut, stirred up the coals on his
                  hearth, filled his pipe, and sat down to smoke and think it all over.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               TRIALS COME NOT SINGLY.
               WHEN a Protestant disassociates himself from he sect with which he has been in
                  communion, to join some other Protestant sect holding different doctrines, it is
                  only necessary for him to present a "certificate of good membership" from his
                  former pastor to be received. This certificate he obtains without difficulty, and
                  however loth his pastor and brethren may be to lose him, they attach no odium to
                  the act, which they look upon as a simple exercise of liberty of conscience, and
                  which they consider one of the most sacred prerogatives of a free-born American
                  citizen. He suffers neither in reputation or estate, and enjoys, with unctuous
                  meekness, the coddling of his new co-religionists.
               But the case is different when a man becomes a convert to the Catholic faith. That
                  means sacrifice. It means humiliation. It means contempt. It means false
                  accusations. It means the standing aloof of friends and neighbors. It means the
                  Cross. It means, even now, everywhere in this broad free land of ours—where
                  "liberty of conscience" is the political boast of the demagogue, and the favorite
                  sounding phrase of the pulpit—anathema. For when a man becomes a Catholic he
                  enters not only into an entirely new
                  spiritual life, but must be prepared for the painful rending of many ties which
                  made the old one pleasant. He begins a warfare of grace against nature. It is a
                  religion which accepts no compromise, because it is divine; a faith which must
                  reign supreme in the soul, and over the will intellect, and of its children: which
                  being in sweet subjection to it, become elevated and holy.
               This contrast is full of a deep and significant meaning, which can be explained in
                  no other way than that the kingdom of Christ upon earth, which is the Holy
                  Catholic Church, being not of this world, all the thousand contradictory sects
                  whose doctrines are human inventions—and, consequently of the world—are engaged in
                  perpetual conflict against her; and while they claim Christ as their Head, reject
                  the doctrine He has revealed, tear to pieces His divine word to substantiate their
                  fallacies, and trample Him under the feet of poor finite human reason, and a more
                  than half-pagan philosophy!
               Why is it that when a man eminent for learning and talents becomes a Catholic it
                  is immediately said by his former co-religionists that "He always wanted balance;"
                  "He was a very eccentic person;" "In fact, his friends always thought him
                     just not crazy, and some of them dreaded that he was entirely so."
                  Then with a smile of derision, they
               "Hope with his visionary ideas that he may stop short of actual atheism." Of other
                  converts of less repute they declare them "Always to have been hypocrites; and
                  their going over to Rome was for wider license to sin, for which they could get
                  ablution beforehand;" or that "Their ignorance had been imposed upon, and their
                  senses led astray by religious pomps and ceremonies;" of the poor and obscure, who
                  seek, as in a city of refuge, the heavenly consolations of a true faith, they say:
                  "Poor ignorant souls! we are well rid of them, and Popery is welcome to all such
                  weeds. Let them support those whom they have perverted;" then they are stripped of
                  employment and turned adrift to join that great army which is one of the
                  distinctive marks of the true Church, the innumerable army of the suffering poor,
                  of whom our Lord said: "The poor ye will always have with you."
               There is no surer test of the truth of the Catholic religion than this undying,
                  ceaseless persecution, and the spirit of sacrifice which it involves in its
                  warfare with the faithful soul, enabling it in the end to exclaim: "I have fought
                  the good fight"; then to go covered with the glorious scars of the conflict to
                  receive its eternal reward.
               Many err through the accident of their birth and surroundings; some err, sincerely
                  believing they 'do God a service" when they persecute His people ple; and others through ignorance; but alas! for
                  those who, more enlightened, close their eyes and see not, and their ears and hear
                  not; who stifle in their souls the whispers of grace and truth, and strike blindly
                  against a divine faith which not even the "gates of hell" can move! Alas for
                  such!—were it not better that they had never been born?
               Wolfert Flemming felt that he was getting into deep waters; but a peace passing
                  all human understanding now filled his inner life and gave him courage. The
                  out-look was not cheering. There was a mortgage on part of his property, which he
                  had expected to clear and have a handsome profit over from the lumber business;
                  but, as I have related, he was cut quite off from that by Dacon Sneathen's
                  fanaticism. He could see no mode of relief except by selling, which it went sorely
                  against his heart even to think of; for he had invested all his ready money the
                  year before in building the large addition to his house, in erecting a new stone
                  barn and other outhouses, and in enriching and fencing in his lands. It is true
                  that he had a year before him in which to look round and manage for the best, but
                  his way was so hemmed in just now, that if he could manage to pay interest and get
                  the mortgage extended it was as much as he dared hope to accomplish. In addition
                  to this serious cause for anxiety, there was his wife growing thin; the light had
                  taded out of her eyes, the cheerful ring was gone from her voice, and she was
                  miserably unhappy. And the boy, Reuben, the idol of the household, grew more
                  dreamy every day; sometimes wan and drooping, at other times glowing and brilliant
                  with feverish excitement, he was an enigma which none of them could comprehend.
                  The doctor had been sent for, and his scrutiny into the case resulted in the sage
                  opinion that "he must be let alone. He was too fragile for bleeding and
                  physicking, and must be as much as possible in the open air. He could not decide
                  whether the case was one of inertia, or, what was worse, softening of the brain."
                  So Ruby had his liberty, which above all things he desired just now; and he really
                  was selfish enough to feel glad that they were all uneasy enough about him to
                  follow the doctor's sensible advice. Had it been otherwise some of his fine plans
                  would have come to grief. For Ruby had a secret which he guarded with jealous
                  care; and when his keen-eyed, anxious little mother found out that the boy was
                  making a mystery of something, it added to her unhappiness, and she wondered with
                  a dull ache at her heart if he was going daft? She had never got over the talk
                  about the "soft stone," and nothing could have convinced her that it was not a
                  feature of mental hallucination in him to imagine such a thing.
               
               Then Nick had run down for a day and night from the Pines to get some instructions
                  from his father relative to a final settlement of his affairs, and he told them
                  about the letter he had got from Deacon Sneathen; the poor fellow bore it bravely
                  enough, for he had Huldah's faithful, cheering letter as an offset to it; but his
                  father and mother knew that this sudden turn in the affairs of his young and happy
                  life was no light burden for him to bear, and they comforted him as best they
                  could, "speaking words of endearment, where words of consolation availed not."*
                   Altogether the situation of the family at the Old Homestead was grave. But
                  Wolfert Flemming had counted the cost; and come weal or woe, the peace of his soul
                  was undisturbed, his faith unshaken. The readings from Milner's "End of
                  Controversy" went on regularly every evening—Mrs. Flemming now habitually
                  absenting herself. Her quaint high-backed chair looked forlorn and empty; they not
                  only missed her presence, but deplored the cause; even the great tortoise-shell
                  cat, which was wont to sleep curled up at her feet, seemed to understand that
                  something was amiss, and finally one night mounted quietly into the chair, where
                  she sat sadly blinking at the fire until her mistress came in to prayers, then
                  springing lightly to the floor she met her half-way, rubbed her sides against her
                  and lay down in her old place at her feet, where she dozed contentedly. This
                  grotesque little episode occurred every night, and no one disturbed Griselda, who,
                  like her famous namesake, behaved with the greatest propriety. Meanwhile Eva and
                  Hope became more and more interested, and more sincerely convinced by the
                  arguments they heard that the Catholic faith was the one, only true, and holy
                  apostolic faith, upon earth. Convinced of the divine origin and truth of the
                  Church, a belief in its dogmas necessarily followed, although their faith in some
                  of these was not altogether clear; for instance, the doctrine of Purgatory, so
                  unlike anything they had ever heard of or conceived, was a drawback; also
                  Tradition and Invocation of Saints were subjects which they discussed night after
                  night with their father, who in his grave patient way turned first to the Bible
                  and then to Milner, linking the proofs together by his own strong natural reason
                  and the inspirations of grace, until they felt at last that however strongly their
                  human reason might be opposed to such doctrines they could not see how they could
                  believe otherwise, and experienced for the first time in their lives that grace is
                  supernatural, and above all worldly reason and philosophy; that the high mysteries
                  of God are not to be solved by mortal minds, or dragged into the mire of human
                  understanding, but
                  
                     
                     *Longfellow.
                   were to be
                  reverenced and adored. Then it occurred to them that the mystery of the Trinity,
                  which they had always believed, without the shadow of a doubt, was a greater and
                  more inaccessible one than any of these new dogmas they had been hearing about,
                  and which they desired to accept; yet they had never thought it necessary to seek
                  to fathom its meaning, or even troubled themselves for a single moment about it;
                  they simply believed it, and if need be would have suffered death rather than deny
                  their faith in it. They had many talks together over their sewing in the daytime,
                  when their mother was not present, on the subject of the previous night's reading;
                  grave, quiet conversations, indicating not only an appreciation of new and strange
                  information, which in itself affords a certain pleasure to intelligent minds, but
                  the dawn and awaking of a spiritual life which already inspired them to place
                  their will in subjection to the supreme will and service of God. And Eva daily
                  meditated on the picture that the pedler gave her. She had learnt much about that
                  Virgin Mother who stood weeping at the Cross. Her Bible told her in its prophecies
                  and in its gospels who SHE was, and Milner told her how and why the Church
                  venerated her and sought her intercession—and the thought of MARY became more
                  deeply precious to her; it was her companion in solitude; it was the purest and
                  tenderest motive of her soul, the model by which she was interiorly striving to
                  fashion her own life. She was the sinless Mother of Jesus; through Him she was
                  also hers; she was the new Eve who had brought healing and salvation to her
                  progeny, instead of malediction and eternal woe as did the first Eve. She suffered
                  in her soul all that her Son suffered in His body, that the ruin wrought by our
                  first mother might be healed; and—thought the girl—lest her Son's passion should
                  become, through our own perverseness, fruitless for us, she intercedes without
                  ceasing for us, for whom she suffered a supreme martyrdom. Then Eva began to
                  understand that the little statue in old Missisquoi's room was not an ideal
                  "Peace" or "Charity," but an image of the holy Mother and her Divine Babe; and in
                  a little while the table was covered with an embroidered drapery; it was drawn out
                  from the side of the wall and set in the middle of the room, with the ivy-covered
                  window for a background, and before the statue she daily placed a vase of wild
                  flowers. Into this retreat Eva used to steal at twilight, sometimes at sunrise,
                  and in fact whenever an opportunity presented itself, to offer her pure devotions,
                  to read and meditate on all the wonderful and sublime truths which were gradually
                  illuminating her spirit, and ask with timid yearning love the intercession of the
                  Mother of Jesus. After a little time
                  the family got to know where Eva was to be found when she was missing, for she now
                  often took her sewing with her, and sat there full of content and peace, thinking
                  and thinking of her sweet Virgin Mother until all earthly things were lost sight
                  of. One day her mother surprised her there. Mrs. Flemming stood on the threshold
                  and saw it all: the image, the flowers, the embroidered draperies; and, above all,
                  Eva sitting there on a low chair, her hands lightly clasped over her knee, and her
                  face uplifted, gazing with a rapt far-away look in her eyes upon the fair likeness
                  of MARY.
               "Eva," she said, in a hoarse, harsh voice, "What is this? Has it really come to
                  image-worship under this roof? Are you all mad or possessed?"
               Eva started and looked round. "Not worshipping the image, mother," she answered
                  quickly, as she rose and stood, making a little gesture with her hand towards the
                  statue. "It represents the Mother of Jesus; and I was thinking of her holy life
                  and exalted virtues, and wishing that I might even in a feeble and imperfect way,
                  imitate them."
               "She was no better than any other converted woman. I don't deny that she was
                     converted,"*
                   said Mrs. Flemming; "but you ought to be ashamed of yourself to practice
                  such idolatry as to be paying her honors which are due only to God, you who have
                  been sitting under the teachings of the gospel so many years."
               
                  
                  *This was said to me by an intelligent Protestant lady a few weeks ago.
               
               "Mother!" asked Eva, in her grave, sweet way, so much like her father's, "is it
                  idolatry for me to love you, to think of you, to desire to resemble you, and to
                  ask the aid of your prayers? Is it giving to a creature the worship which is due
                  to God to do this?"
               "It is a different thing entirely. It makes me sick, such false reasoning," she
                  replied, nervously.
               "Dear mother, if it is not idolatry for me to love you and try to imitate your
                  virtues, it is not idolatry for me to love the Mother of Jesus who was sinless and
                  holy, and try to model my poor life on hers," said Eva, while a soft glow
                  crimsoned her cheeks, and her brave truthful eyes beamed with an unearthly
                  brightness.
               "It is all foolishness!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming. "I wish to hear no more of it;
                  it would take a miracle to change my opinions about all these new-fangled
                  superstitious doings and doctrines." Then she went away, ready to cry out in her
                  desolation and anger; she went into her own room and threw herself upon the floor,
                  weeping in the bitterness of her soul and wondering no longer that the Jews, in
                  their time of affliction, used to put ashes upon their heads and wrap themselves
                  in sackcloth; some such thing would have been a great relief to her, but she was a Christian, to
                  whom all Jewish rites, as well as all religious pomps and ceremonies, were
                  abominations; so she could only try to pray. But latterly the heavens had become
                  as brass over her head, and whenever she had sought consolation in prayer she
                  could only weep those hot bitter tears, to which, until the perversion of her
                  family, she had been a stranger.
               "Eva," said her father, that evening, "your mother tells me that you spend much of
                  your time in old Massisquoi's room. Be careful, for I think the ceiling is
                  unsound. There has been a leak in the roof this long time which should have been
                  mended."
               "Is the ceiling cracked, father? I did not notice!" replied Eva.
               "Yes, cracked entirely across; but it is not very perceptible; however, I will see
                  to it. I am glad the room is used. A shut-up, never-used place like that in a
                  house, is not canny!" he said, with one of his old pleasant smiles.
               Then came a day when Wolfert Flemming was summoned before his Church to answer for
                  his contumacy and backsliding.*
                   His family wished him to spare himself the humiliation, and although he
                  would not have sought it, still less was he going to avoid the opportunity that it
                  gave him to confess fess the Faith openly; so he signified his intention of
                  appearing before them on the following Sunday afternoon.
                     
                     *This scene occurred as described.
                  
               Never was the old meeting-house so crowded. People came from far and near to hear
                  what he would have to say to extenuate his course of conduct. They were full of
                  vague expectation and curiosity, many of them hoping that at the last moment he
                  would recant the errors into which he had fallen and ask to be restored to the
                  membership he had forfeited in his Church; and when he arose and stood before them
                  in all his dignity, his grave noble countenance and frank honest eyes confronting
                  them calmly and fearlessly, the silence became almost breathless. Then he began in
                  clear level tones to set forth his "reasons for the faith that was in him," which
                  carried to the mind of each one present the conviction that the man was speaking
                  the "words of truth and soberness." He went over the whole ground of his religious
                  experience, describing in simple and graphic language how his doubts were first
                  awakened by observing the contradictory doctrines of the various sects composing
                  the Protestant world; how he became still more disquieted by studying the
                  scriptures in search of a solution of his difficulties, which so far from
                  silencing his doubts, plunged him into still greater; he spared them nothing of
                  the mental ex ercises he had passed
                  through, and from the Bible and Milner's End of Controversy, in clear, lucid and
                  simple terms, told them how at last his soul had found rest, as "under the shadow
                  of a great rock in a weary land." His heart kindled still more as he talked to
                  them; the truth inspired him with strange eloquence, and, without a word that
                  could pain or offend the bitterest Puritan there, he set before them with logical
                  force the pre-eminent claims of the holy Catholic Church to a divine origin and
                  incorrupt Faith. He explained in simple style her dogmas, and spoke of her
                  sacraments and consolations with a zeal, a fluency and pathos which amazed all who
                  listened to him.
               Many were filled with wonder at the strange doctrines he discoursed about; some
                  heard him in anger, some were almost persuaded to go and do likewise; some of the
                  women wept, and all listened to him with rapt attention. Old Father Ray sat
                  through it all with his head bowed and his face covered with his hands, never once
                  trusting himself to look towards him. Deacon Sneathen, his face purple, as with
                  threatened apoplexy, from the beginning to the end of it gazed intently into his
                  hat, which was stuck between his knees, as if it were the well in which truth
                  abode. Miss Debby "sat in the seat of the scorner," her chin stuck up to its
                  highest possible angle, and upon her hard face a more grim and unpleasant
                  expression than usual. Mrs Flemming, who, with the spirit of Puritan and Spartan
                  combined, had determined with wifely and womanly devotion to be present, to stand
                  if need be by her husband's side, and show them all that whoever forsook him she
                  would abide with him, could not forbear thinking, as she listened to arguments
                  which she had never heard before, that there was much plausibility in them, and
                  received impressions which she did not until a later day acknowledge. Nicholas—who
                  was also there—thought his father had made his case good and defended it ably;
                  while Eva and Hope held up their heads proudly, gazing at him with fond affection,
                  believing as he believed, and rejoicing in every word that fell from his lips.
                  Reuben, who had shown no interest one way or the other in the spiritual
                  disturbance in the family, had slipped off directly after dinner for one of his
                  solitary rambles, and could not be found when the chaise started from home;
                  consequently he was not there. Huldah was sitting near her aunt, and nodded and
                  smiled to the Flemmings in the face of the congregation, who fluttered with
                  indignant surprise at such an infraction of Puritan decorum, to say nothing of the
                  disapprobation they felt at her noticing people who were actually under the ban of
                  public opinion. But Huldah did not observe the sensation she caused, and would not have cared a snap for it if
                  she had.
               It was high noon when Wolfert Flemming began to speak; when he finished, the last
                  golden beams of the setting sun shone through the old hemlocks around the windows.
                  Then Father Ray got up, and, in tones whose tremulousness he in vain attempted to
                  control, read to the congregation the formula which severed Wolfert Flemming from
                  all religious communion with them; a most senseless thing, as he had sometime
                  before voluntarily withdrawn himself. But the humiliation which gave him an
                  opportunity to confess and defend the faith, sunk into the smallest insignificance
                  by the side of its results.
               When the people all left the meeting-house, some few came up out of very shame and
                  shook hands with Wolfert Flemming, then hurried off as if fearful of contagion—but
                  the others stood aloof, neither speaking or shaking hands, or by even a nod
                  recognizing him, except Huldah Sneathen, who left her father and aunt and marched
                  up before them all, and with a heightened color in her cheeks and a brighter
                  sparkle in her handsome eyes held out her hand to her old friend, who, touched by
                  the act under the circumstances, pressed it in his broad palm and said: "God bless
                  you child." Then she stood chatting with Hope, Eva and Nicholas, throwing defiant
                  glances to the right and left about her, until Miss Debby, unable to bear it
                  another instant, came up, and grasping her by the arm exclaimed: "Huldy Sneathen,
                  I admire to see you! Ain't you ashamed of yourself! Come 'long, and don't keep
                  your father waiting!"
               "I'm coming to spend the afternoon with you and Eva to-morrow, Hope," said Huldah,
                  in her old familiar tones. "Good-by all." Then she turned to Miss Debby, and in
                  hearing of every one said: "I declare! I thought the bears had me! You ought to be
                  ashamed to give me such a scare, Debórah!"
               To be called Debórah, with the accent upon the o as was the fashion in those days,
                  always stirred up the wrath of this severe maiden; but on this occasion the
                  allusion to the bears and the Debórah together were overpowering, and rendered her
                  quite speechless.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               JOHN WILDE.
               John Wilde was at last ready to leave Boston and turn his face homeward. He had
                  been away nearly four weeks, including his journey thither, and it would be almost
                  five before he got back; for he had a
                  hundred miles to travel with his two heavily loaded wagons, over roads which in
                  some places for a stretch of miles were worse than the famed corduroy roads of the
                  South, and in others amounted to nothing better than old Indian trails, up hill
                  and down, through marshes and over disintegrated rocks which seemed to have been
                  dropped at random from the clouds, or were the debris—as some gravely assert—of
                  glaciers long since melted. But John Wilde gave himself no trouble about the
                  difficulties of the route except to get over them the best way he could, nor
                  puzzled his brain about the natural phenomena that originated them; he was far too
                  happy and too full of bright anticipations of the future to let himself be
                  disturbed by such trifles; and, as far as he could see, there was not a shadow to
                  darken the aureole that crowned it. He was not a man given to building castles in
                  Spain; but he often found himself, as the sturdy team crept slowly along dragging
                  the great creaking wagons loaded with his household goods, thinking of how his
                  home would look when Hope Flemming—soon to be his wife—brightened and consecrated
                  it with her presence. He wondered how she would like his purchases, and in which
                  rooms she would place this or that piece of furniture, certain that however she
                  arranged them they would bear the impress of her good taste. He knew how good,
                  without pretence, she was; how pure and true, without dissimulation; how
                  thoroughly domestic and womanly in her habits; how thrifty in all her ways; and he
                  longed for the hour when he could look on her grave beautiful face again, and
                  watch the brightening of her eyes and the soft blushes mantling her cheeks as he
                  discussed their future plans and talked over his purchases together. Sometimes a
                  lurch of the wagon aroused him from his pleasant dreams; sometimes a sudden halt
                  of the tired horses interrupted them; sometimes they melted into the music of the
                  bells upon the horses; sometimes they were rudely broken upon by the unexpected
                  bursting of a mountain storm, which threatened, while it lasted, to sweep him and
                  his dreams and household treasures away together. And he felt truly and happily
                  thankful to find, after the flurry was over, that everything was safe; for he was
                  very proud of his purchases, knowing that Hope would like them—he knew her tastes
                  so well. The real mahogany sofa and work-stand; the gilded cane-seat chairs; the
                  large round centre-table, standing on carved claws tipped with brass, upon which
                  she would arrange the choice books he had bought her; the handsome cherrywood
                  furniture for the bedrooms; the green carpet covered with roses; the crimson
                  carpet covered with garlands of oak leaves; the blue carpet covered with white daisies; the beautiful pieces of
                  furniture; chintz—real French; the neat gold-banded china; the new bright
                  kitchenware; and, above all, a gilt oval-framed mirror for the best room! How
                  could Hope fail to admire them, and give credit to his good taste? It was a rare
                  thing in those days for a young bride, up there in the hill country to go to
                  housekeeping in such nice style, but then Hope, he thought, was without her equal,
                  and must have suitable surroundings. John Wilde spent nearly eight hundred dollars
                  in Boston, but if it had been five thousand he would have thought it scarcely
                  worthy of one so fair, so good and beautiful. Then he went on dreaming of the time
                  when her home should be the stateliest and most elegant in all New Hampshire; and,
                  when, about middle life, when his hair would be touched with white, and fair sons
                  and daughters gathered about him and their beautiful mother, he would go to
                  Congress, and finally take his seat in the National Senate! Then he thought of
                  Hope presiding over the refined and cultivated society of the metropolis—for there
                  really was in those days a refined and cultivated society there—and gracing with
                  sweet dignity the high position he had won for her—when the wagon wheels slipped
                  into a gully, and brought John Wilde down from his seat upon the flanks of his
                  horses, dispersing his day dreams, and giving him no end of actual trouble in
                  getting things to rights once more. So we see that the man had ambition too; but
                  it was for her. It is astonishing what capacity there is in the mind of these
                  quiet practical people, who apparently don't know the difference between a rose
                  and a thistle, for castle building! and how happy they are in the beautiful
                  structures sprung into existence by virtue of rubbing the lamp they carry about,
                  hidden in their bosom! I don't say that this sort of people originate their fair
                  imaginations in idle day-dreaming. Far from it They must have, as John Wilde had,
                  a real substantial foundation, and fair outlooks to build upon; then nothing seems
                  impossible to their fancy, nothing too high or noble for their aspirations.
               John Wilde was a happy man the day he caught sight of the old gables and high
                  chimney-tops of home. He whistled the old tunes that he and Hope had learned
                  together in singing class; he looked over his broad rich acres of farm and
                  woodland, beautified by cascade and mountain slope, and his eyes brightened at the
                  thought of endowing her with these and all other of his worldly goods; if he had
                  been master of a world he would have thought it worth nothing unshared by her!
               Mrs. Wilde heard the wagon bells far off, winding around the mountain and crossing
                  the little valley nestling between the hills, and she knew that John was nearing home; that he was coming
                  straight under a cloud to meet a trial such as he had never dreamed of; and she
                  had not the heart to go out to welcome him, for she knew that what she had to tell
                  him would shake his brave, honest heart to its depths. He feared that she was
                  sick, when he did not see her standing as usual on the vine-clad porch, waving her
                  handkerchief to him, as she always did when he came home from a journey; but his
                  uneasiness merged into something like anger, when he got in and found her quietly
                  moving around, setting the tea-table! He knew that she must have heard the bells,
                  and wondered why she did not meet him as she had always done ever since he was a
                  boy; then he noticed a restraint and reticence in her manner, which altogether
                  made his welcome-home the coldest he had ever experienced. It was like the first
                  heavy rain-drop of a coming storm, before the blue sky and sunshine are obscured;
                  and it fell with a sudden chill into the warm, loving nature of the man. But he
                  had enough to do outside; so, instead of staying there sulking, he left Mrs. Wilde
                  still pottering about the table, her heart so full that she was ready on the
                  slightest provocation to burst out crying, and went to assist the men in unloading
                  his treasures from the wagons, for, mark you, these were things to be handled with
                  the greatest care, that she might receive them without "scratch or
                  scaur. After stowing them away carefully—as you may believe—in the new part of the
                  house, where he and Hope were to live, which was full of the clean pure smell of
                  whitewash and fresh paint, and where not a speck of dirt or litter was to be seen;
                  he locked the door and went back to the sitting-room, the old sitting-room with
                  its low blue ceiling and black-walnut chair-boarding, which he remembered from his
                  earliest boyhood, and which he had made over with all the old portion of the house
                  to his mother, that she might still be mistress there; and where, as she said,
                  "she would not be turned out of the old tracks she had been walking in for nearly
                  forty years;" adding: "It is better, John, for young married folks to live alone,
                  and get used to one another without anybody meddling. I had a hard time with my
                  mother-in-law and other step-kin, who came nigh breaking up my happiness and heart
                  together; and I determined then never to live with you and your wife, if I could
                  help it; and I won't, for human nature is human nature, just as certain as twice
                  one makes two; and we mightn't understand each other; then, where would
                     you be?"
               Mrs. Wilde was sitting at the head of the table, ready to pour out his coffee,
                  when he came in.
               "I am glad to have you home again, John," said Mrs. Wilde, who had a pale, scared
                  look in her face.
               
               "Are you sick, mother?" he asked, looking fixedly at her.
               "No, indeed. What put that into your head? I am never sick."
               "Well, I don't know. It seems like there's something the matter. You never met me
                  like this before. Surely, surely, mother, the thought of my wife is not getting
                  disagreeable to you. I have heard of such jealousies!"
               "Make your mind easy on that score, John. Should Hope Flemming ever be your wife,
                  there'll be no jealousies between us, depend upon that."
               "Should Hope Flemming ever be my wife! What nonsense! when we are to be married in
                  two weeks! I'd like to know what you mean, mother? There seems to be something of
                  a mystery," he said, feeling scared as he went on. "Is Hope well? Is there
                  anything the matter at Elder Flemmings'?"
               "Finish your supper, John, and we'll have a talk," said Mrs. Wilde, stirring her
                  tea, and looking down into her cup. She would have burst out crying if she had met
                  his eyes.
               "Are they all well down there?" he asked, sternly
               "Perfectly well," she answered; "but eat your supper, my boy; there, try a muffin,
                  and eat some of that custard pie. Do, John, try and eat your supper."
               "Try and eat!" It is the way with some people to think that eating is a panacea
                  for all troubles, and that others who are stricken by griefs and trials, which
                  almost crush them, can be materially relieved by "a nice hot cup of tea," a
                  "delicious broiled chicken," or "some of the nicest preserves, now, you ever
                  tasted;" and urge their pleasant remedies persistently upon them, until, driven to
                  desperation, they gulp down the hot tea, choke themselves with muffins or broiled
                  chicken, as the case may be, and swallow the preserves, altogether careless
                  whether they are honey or gall, just to rid themselves of well-meant importunities
                  and thereby add the horrors of indigestion to the sum of their sorrows.
               But John Wilde was made of sterner stuff; so he pushed his plate and cup back,
                  saying he had finished his supper; then reverently returning thanks for blessings
                  which it was not the fault of Providence that he had rejected, he got up and told
                  his mother that he was going to saddle his horse and ride down to Elder Flemming's
                  to see what all this was about."
               Then she bade him stay; and, taking his hand enderly in hers, she led him to the
                  sofa and told him all that had happened at the Old Homestead while he was away.
                  Elder Flemming—no longer Elder—had become a regular out and out Papist, and had been turned out of meeting; and
                  Eva and Hope—yes, Hope too—professed openly the same idolatrous creed! All of
                  them, except Mrs. Flemming; who was much pitied by every one, but who kept very
                  stiff and silent about her troubles; and Reuben—he stuck by his mother. But
                  Nicholas, he had told Father Ray right out that "the fact of such a good man as
                  his father becoming a Catholic convinced him that the Catholic faith
                  had something in it that was at least worth inquiry; and he intended reading and
                  examining into it from beginning to end; and if it come up to his ideas of what
                  religion should be, he would go with them at the risk of everything. It was the
                  first religion he had heard of," he said, "that cost a man anything, and that a
                  man was ready to lose all for; therefore he thought it must be something more than
                  singing and praying and preaching once a week." "He said all that, John, to Father
                  Ray, and Father Ray is so cut up by it all that he looks ten years older. You know
                  he thought the sun rose and set in the Flemmings. Then Deacon Sneathen wouldn't
                  renew the partnership with Elder Flemming, and they say has broken off the match
                  between Nicholas and Huldy!"
               Here was a batch of trouble; for John Wilde was a conscientious Puritan, serving
                  God according to his lights, and believing himself to be walking ing in the laws
                  of the gospel, and it was apparent to him at once that unless Hope could be
                  reclaimed from these Popish errors there was much unhappiness in store for them.
                  How could he marry a Papist! It seemed better to him to marry a pagan, who might
                  in the end become converted But a Papist! a brood of papistical children!—a house
                  divided against itself! It was a great blow to the young man. His mother said all
                  this to him too, repeating his own unuttered thoughts, and told him that Father
                  Ray and his friends had expressed the same opinions. He was in great distress, but
                  he had not seen Hope herself. It was too late to go down to the lake now, but he
                  would go early after breakfast the next morning. It had all come upon him like an
                  earthquake, tumbling down the fair fabric of his life about his ears with a crash.
                  It was almost more than the man could bear. His mother heard him walking his floor
                  all night; and when, towards daylight, not being able to bear these signs of his
                  distress any longer, she went in to him to try and comfort him, he laid his tired,
                  aching head upon her shoulder, and, completely unmanned, sobbed like a whipped
                  child.
               "Don't cry, John," said Mrs. Wilde, almost blinded by her own tears; "may be Hope
                  won't, after all. You go and have a good, long talk over it with her, and I guess she'll give it up when she
                  finds there's danger of losing you."
               "Not if she thinks it right, mother. You don't know Hope Flemming. She's like her
                  father She'd burn at the stake sooner than give up a principle she thought right,"
                  he answered.
               "The Flemmings are all alike, that's a fact," said Mrs. Wilde. "If they once take
                  up a thing, and believe it to be the right thing, you might as well attempt to
                  move the Sandwich Mountains into Lake Winnipiseogee as to expect to change them.
                  But, John, trust in the Lord! His arm is strong; have faith in Him and He will not
                  fail you in your hour of need. I don't want to believe that, after all, it will
                  come to pass that you and Hope Flemming will not be man and wife! I tell you,
                  John, I've shed many a bitter tear since all this trouble came about; and when I
                  heard the wagon bells tinkling 'way off there on the mountain, and knew you were
                  coming, I felt like running away to hide myself, I dreaded so much having to tell
                  you sorrowful news. It's hard on me too, for I've been counting so surely on
                  ending my days here with you and Hope, and the children God might see fit to send
                  you. But lay down awhile, honey! It won't ease your mind, but it'll rest your
                  body. It must be near daybreak, for all it's so black out; and don't forget, John,
                  that the very darkest hour of the night is that just before dawn." And the good
                  woman drew his head to her bosom as she stood beside him, he sitting on the
                  bedside, and pressed her wet cheek down among his tangled brown curls, with a
                  prayer in her inmost soul that God in His mercy would pity her child and avert
                  from him this great trial of his life; which meant, from their stand-point, a
                  desire that Hope Flemming would cast aside the errors in which she was entangled,
                  otherwise it was clear to both of them that the marriage must be broken off.
               But the human heart is prone to seek even in the depths of misery for the sweet
                  solace of hope; and John Wilde, like a drowning man grasping at floating seaweed,
                  at last began to lay hold of the possibility that things were not quite as bad as
                  they had just appeared. He began to take into consideration the spirit of
                  exaggeration which always prevails in small communities, to which their own
                  neighborhood formed no exception; and to make allowance for the bitter feelings
                  among his sect against Romanism; also for the stale fact that as gossip travels
                  its dimensions as surely increase in substance and bulk, as a snowball does that
                  is rolled in the snow. Anything better than giving up Hope. He couldn't stand
                  that. It is strange that it never once occurred to him that Hope of her own free
                  will might reject him because he did not believe as she did; that she, on her part, might not be
                  willing to compromise her happiness—as well as he—knowing how widely their beliefs
                  differed.
               The next morning early he drove down to the Old Homestead, taking with him some
                  little presents he had brought for Hope's acceptance.
               The Flemmings were all glad to see him, and the welcome they gave him differed in
                  no wise from the cordial welcome of other days; there was no change outwardly that
                  he could see, and yet there was an indefinable something, originating possibly in
                  his having heard all that he had and in the unpleasant position it had placed him
                  in, which made him feel as if a transparent but impenetrable mist had risen
                  between him and them. Then, little by little, he began to notice things which to a
                  casual observer would not have been in the least apparent. He saw that Hope's
                  cheek had lost some of its roundness and bloom: and that her eyes, as they met his
                  now and then in the old frank way, wore a grave and somewhat sad expression, and
                  he listened in vain for the low sweet laughter which always sounded to him like
                  the warbling of a bird. Mrs. Flemming's face wore a look of care, which he noticed
                  more particurly when she was not speaking; she had lost flesh and color, and there
                  was a heavy troubled look in her large black eyes once so full of life and spirit!
                  But she was very glad to see John Wilde, and in her heart hailed him as an ally
                  who would give her help in these religious difficulties, which, like the waves of
                  a rising flood, were sweeping her near and dear ones away from her to certain
                  destruction. Wolfert Flemming and Eva were more cheerful than he had ever seen
                  them; and it was a strange sort of cheerfulness, so full was it of serenity, and
                  so far above all levity, yet so genial and kind, that when they asked him about
                  his journey to Boston and back, and he became interested in describing the wonders
                  of the city and some of the perils of the road, he almost forgot his troubles; for
                  the conversation became general, and it seemed like the old times again. But
                  presently the family one after another went away to their various occupations,
                  leaving him alone with Hope, and he realized his position with such a sick feeling
                  at his heart that it almost blinded him. He placed the presents he had brought
                  her—a pearl brooch and a plain heavy gold ring—in her hands. She opened the
                  morocco case and looked at them, as if admiring them, then laid it quietly on the
                  workstand beside her without saying a word.
               "I thought perhaps you would like them, Hope!" he said, mortified at her
                  indifference.
               "They are beautiful," she answered, "and I thank you for thinking of me." Then
                  they were both silent; she stitching away on a linen wrist band for her father—he watching her, full of a
                  great love and sorrow.
               "I have heard strange news since I came home!" he said at last, unable to bear the
                  strain of uncertainty any longer.
               "I suppose so. You mean my father's conversion to the Catholic Church?" she
                  answered.
               "Aye, and of all others of your household, yourself included, Hope," he said.
               "It is true. I am also a Catholic for life and death, John," she replied, in firm
                  low tones.
               "How in God's name did it all happen? Tell me, Hope! It is the most remarkable
                  thing I ever heard of—and, to me, the most painful," he exclaimed.
               And Hope told him how it had all come to pass, giving him reasons, as she went on,
                  for the faith that was in her. Nor did she falter, at a loss for words, or
                  arguments, or proofs; simply and truly, almost eloquently, she made her reasons
                  for becoming a Catholic clear to his mind, but not to his faith. Then he discussed
                  the whole matter with her; he argued and pleaded, and appealed to her by the love
                  which had grown up between them, and by the regard she ought to feel for his
                  happiness, to abandon the errors and idolatries into which she had been led, and
                  return to the religion taught by the gospel; almost his wife as she was, he had a
                  right, for the sake of their future, to ask this of her. But so far from yielding
                  in the slightest degree to anything he said, she told him plainly, while her eyes
                  kindled, and her cheeks, a little while ago so pale, glowed: "That no earthly
                  consideration or motive could change her conviction of the truth of the Catholic
                  religion; and that so far from relapsing into the darkness and errors which she
                  had just abandoned, she would not rest satisfied until her union with the Catholic
                  Church was consummated by a reception of its Sacraments. "For this," she added, "I
                  am ready to give up all things, even you, John, unless God by His grace converts
                  you to this holy and true faith."
               "I have no thought of changing, Hope. God forbid. I am satisfied with what the
                  gospel and the Westminster Catechism teach. Least of all could I become a Papist.
                  I could not believe all the nonsensical idolatrous things that Papists believe, to
                  save my life," he said in low husky tones.
               "The Catholic faith is not nonsensical or idolatrous, as you would find if you
                  would take the trouble to inform yourself. Promise me, at least, to read a book
                  which I will lend you. Or come down of evenings and let us read it togother," she
                  said pityingly.
               "I will do that, Hope," said the poor fellow; "but I couldn't believe anything
                  more than I do, or in any other way, if
                  I was to try from now until doomsday."
               "Try, John; try for your soul's sake—and for the sake of our happiness," she said,
                  in a low voice. "You know how impossible it will be for us to marry, entertaining
                  religious beliefs so widely differing. The case seems, no doubt, peculiarly
                  trying; but this newly-found faith is so essential to my salvation, and so suited
                  to all the demands of my reason and soul, that I repeat there is no earthly motive
                  or power that could induce me to relinquish it. Knowing this, the best that I can
                  do is to implore you to examine this holy faith, which you will find based and
                  founded and built up on the Bible, and adopt its creed if you can. In that case we
                  can be happy together; otherwise we must become as strangers to each other."
               "It is a hard, bitter case," said John Wilde, bringing his clenched hand heavily
                  down on his knee; "and it seems to me that you take it coolly, Hope, and think no
                  more of wrecking my happiness than you would to sweep away a cobweb."
               "I cannot tell you," she said, her voice tremulous with emotion. "I cannot tell
                  you all the extent of this trial to me, or give you an idea of its bitterness.
                  Remember, John, that if you have to lose something, I also sacrifice somewhat that
                  was dear to me; but not to gain the whole world would I consent to lose my soul,
                  or even place it in peril."
               "Hope," he said at last, raising his head from his hand, "you have never earnestly
                  sought conversion; if you had, you had never fallen into this delusion and error.
                  Lay aside these novelties, at least for a season, and pray to be truly
                  converted!"
               "I do not and never have believed in that sudden, instantaneous, extatic change of
                  soul and nature which you call conversion, and which has always seemed such an
                  unutterable state that I could never think of otherwise than as a delusion," she
                  replied. "It seems to me that conversion is a deliberate response of the will to
                  the grace of God, placing itself under subjection to His will to work out the
                  soul's salvation. Religion is a warfare, not a duel. It is a science which we must
                  learn with simplicity and humility, from its very rudiments, grace assisting our
                  will. First the seed, then the plant, then the flower—after all, the fruit. The
                  result is not the effect of a sudden transformation, but gradual progression, 'and
                  if there are examples of men regenerated by a single experience, they are so rare
                  as only to prove the general rule of patient progression.' I feel that having
                  found the right path, which is essential, that I can only advance a step at a
                  time, stumbling and often falling back at that, that I must be engaged in an incessant warfare with my own nature as
                  I go; that I must labor and work out my salvation and be influenced and governed
                  in every motive and act of my life by the thought of the end for which, through
                  the merits of Jesus Christ, I strive. This is what the Catholic religion and my
                  own reason teaches me about conversion."
               "Could you not do all that in the religion you have abandoned?" he asked.
               "No, John. To be a Christian I must feel sure that I am running not against, but
                  according to the divine law. I must be satisfied that the Church to which I belong
                  has a divine origin and faith, and is not divided against herself; but is one,
                  holy, true and immutable—having one Lord, one Faith, and one Baptism. Everything
                  must be clear to my faith and to my reason. All this I have found in the Catholic
                  religion. What its other consolations are, I do not know experimentally, not
                  having had the happiness to receive the Sacraments."
               "Hope, I see that you are irretrievably joined to your errors. My God! it is a
                  bitter trial to me; after all these years of looking forward to the time when you
                  would be my wife to find everything broken up like a sudden shipwreck!" he
                  exclaimed.
               "Don't you see, John," she said, laying her hand upon his arm, "that if I were
                  even willing to peril my faith and happiness by marrying you— which I am not—how
                  impossible it would be for you, holding the opinions that you do, to marry a
                  Catholic?"
               "It is true, Hope. I could not marry a Catholic. And here we are, just on the eve
                  of our marriage, with a gulf as wide and as deep as death suddenly sprung between
                  us. It is more than I can stand!"
               "The grace of God bridges over deeper and wider gulfs than this," she said in low
                  tones, while her eyes filled with tears that she could not keep back.
               John Wilde got up and walked to and fro the room. The man's anguish was very deep,
                  the woman's equally so, the difference being that hers was consecrated by a
                  sublime spirit of sacrifice for the love of God, while his was the result of error
                  and prejudice, the offshoot of old sectarian hate blended with a fear of the
                  judgments of men.
               "I can't go away like this, Hope," he said at last. "I will at least come and read
                  that book with you, and see what shadow of excuse you have for your unaccountable
                  change. I can do no more."
               "I have nothing else to offer, John. A religious change except from the very
                  highest and best of motives, is like a house built upon the sands, or like a
                  flower that springeth up in a night to wither at noontide. I have too great faith
                  in your integrity of mind to believe that even for my sake you would profess a creed which you could not sincerely
                  believe."
               "No, not for your dear sake, Hope. But some arrangement, some little yielding on
                  both sides, may be possible!" he said standing before her.
               "Not on mine," she said quickly, while a sudden paleness which overspread her
                  face, succeeded by a crimson flushing, showed how the crucial tests were hurting
                  her nature. "I can yield nothing, not to the smallest iota of my faith, either of
                  dogma, precept, doctrine, or practice. Do not hope for that."
               "I hope for nothing now," he said wearily, as he lingered near her. Then pointing
                  to the brooch and ring which lay upon her work-stand glistening in the sunshine,
                  he added: "Keep these at least, for my sake;" and wringing her hand, almost
                  crushing it in the grasp of his, he went away, but came back a moment after to
                  tell her that he would come again the following evening to read with her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               PATRICK M'CUE AND HIS LETTERS.
               THE foreign mail was in—an event of not very freqent occurrence forty years ago,
                  as some will remember—and the Boston post-office was besieged by an expectant
                  crowd which extended from the delivery-window clear out to the sidewalk, all
                  jostling and shouldering each other in their eagerness to get nearer and be the
                  first to receive the letters they hoped for. There were faces there full of
                  expectation—there were faces full of anxiety: some full of dread—others beaming
                  with hope; the occasion formed a crisis in the moral life of many of them, out of
                  which their real natures looked without conventional mask or veil, and it was a
                  study to watch the eager countenances of them, every emotion suddenly intensified,
                  every eye more wistful as the delivery-window was thrown open and the business of
                  the day commenced. There were men who had sent ships loaded with priceless cargoes
                  to sea, months and months ago, who had had no tidings from them—ships which had
                  probably gone down in some of the terrific storms which had swept the world's
                  waters that winter of tempest and wreck—and now they stood waiting, hoping against
                  hope, for tidings which would either add to their prosperity or cripple their
                  fortunes for years to come. There were others who had sent rich ventures to newly
                  opened foreign ports, who knew that their ships had been spoken at sea, and knew
                  that they were homeward bound with stores of "golden fleece;" but weeks stretching
                  into months had passed since they were due, and no word had come up from the "deep" concerning them. They also
                  hoped to hear news of their argosies; for if they had foundered and sunk it meant
                  nothing more or less than utter ruin to them. There were others waiting—whose near
                  and dear ones were travelling abroad, bearing with them in search of health the
                  fading, perishing darling of the household—who now stood with lips firmly
                  compressed, and bated breath, until the crowd thinned out a little, and almost
                  thankful for the delay before they called for the letter so fraught with joy or
                  dole to them; for the last one that came told of increased pallor and feebleness,
                  of quickened breath, and cheeks that were growing thinner and whiter every day.
                  There were hard-faced, keen-eyed stock and money-brokers, eager for news from the
                  Bourse and London Exchange; here were merchant-princes who had branches of their
                  business in Paris, in London, in Bremen, in Canton, and the Brazils, jostling
                  against editors impatient for their foreign budget; there were women whose eyes
                  were bright with the hope of hearing good news from distant relatives, friends,
                  husbands, brothers. Mixed up with them all were the poor emigrants mostly from
                  Ireland and Germany, men and women almost dead with homesickness and hungering for
                  letters from over the sea as they had never hungered for food.
               But in this motley crowd there was only one with whom we have to do; a tall,
                  round-shouldered man with grizzly red hair and beard, who was plainly dressed in
                  gray frieze and held a square basket upon his arm filled with packages, a basket
                  which provoked many a sharp and muttered oath from those with whose ribs its
                  corners came in contact. But the man could not help it; he was jammed in the very
                  thick of the crowd, and although he was better than half a head taller than any
                  there, it gave him no advantage whatever, unless looking like a lighthouse amidst
                  that surging sea of faces could be called one. But he was a good-humored genius,
                  and now and then his jokes, full of pungency, and flavored with a generous brogue,
                  created roars of laughter around him. At last, by dint of watching his opportunity
                  and edging his way an inch at a time, he got to the window, and asked the tired,
                  perspiring clerk if there was a letter for him.
               "Name?" growled the clerk.
               "Misthress Noona McCue, my own mother, God bless her, at Clanmoosie, County Meath,
                  Ireland," answered the man.
               "Is the letter for your mother?"
               "No, faith! the letter I'm expecting is from the dear ould soul; and I shall be
                  sorely disappinted not to get it!" replied the man, taking off his hat to mop his
                  face.
               
               "And what in the d——, what's your name, man?" shouted the exasperated clerk.
               "Patrick McCue's my name, and I'm not ashamed to own it!"
               "Well then, here's a letter for you, Patrick McCue; and next time you come to
                  inquire for a letter, tell a fellow who it is to, not who it is from!" said the
                  clerk, handing him a letter, but not the one he expected, as he afterwards found
                  out. He could not get out, for the stream of people coming in was steadily
                  increasing; so, literally wedging himself back in an angle of the wall, and
                  thrusting his basket down between his feet, he, all impatient to hear from the
                  "old mother at home," tore open the letter and run his eye over the strange
                  handwriting, then read its contents. Wonder and joy struggled together in his
                  homely countenance as he read; then "Glory be to God and the Blessed Virgin" burst
                  from his lips, and snatching up his basket, which he hoisted to the top of his
                  head that he might get through the crowd more quickly, while he held his letter
                  like some sacred trophy to his breast, he forced his way towards the door.
               "Hilloa there!" shouted the clerk; "here's another letter for Patrick McCue. From
                  Ireland."
               "That's from the mother of me—God bless her. Take good care of it, your honor,
                  I'll be round for it this evening!" he shouted back. "Converted!! By this and by
                  that! it's aiqual to the conversion of St. Paul: may he be promoted in glory. Up
                  there, away amongst the icebergs and snow, with no more idea of the holy Catholic
                  Faith than cannibals, to be converted, and be after writin' to me to get them
                  Catholic books! It bates Bannagher!
               And they hatin' the sight of the cross too, and calling me names, and talking to
                  me as if I had just come up through the earth from the middle of Chiny and had
                  never heard of Christianity in my life. Faith, and it'll do me good to send them
                  books." Patrick McCue was thinking aloud; and everybody around him heard what he
                  said, and thought him crazy, for his words sounded incoherent and without sense to
                  them, and they moved as well as they could out of his way, by which means he soon
                  reached the door.
               Of course you remember our old acquaintance, the pedler? It was really he, and the
                  letter which so excited him was the one written to him some weeks before by
                  Wolfert Flemming. The news it contained almost overpowered him; it seemed nothing
                  short of miraculous. He had heard nothing of the Flemmings since he left their
                  house months ago, and although he had never ceased praying for their conversion,
                  the recollection of their hospitality and kindness was always embittered by the
                  thought of their deeply-rooted hostility tility to his Holy Faith, and their undisguised contempt for the Cross and the
                  Pope. And now to get a letter from the grave, stern Puritan himself, telling him
                  that "he was converted to the Catholic Faith, and there was good hope for thinking
                  his entire household would before long follow his example." "Why," said Patrick
                  McCue afterwards, "it gave me a chill; and you might have knocked me down with a
                  feather, the surprise of it made me so wake." But Patrick happily did not fall
                  over, but managed to keep his feet and hold on to his basket beside, until he
                  finally got clear of the post-office building and found himself standing in the
                  street. Here he rested for a moment to draw in a few breaths of the cold wholesome
                  air, then hurried away and did not stop until he came to a church, the door of
                  which being open, he marched reverently up the empty aisle towards the rich altar,
                  and prostrating himself before the Blessed Sacrament, offered with simple and
                  fervent devotion his thanks to Almighty God for the conversion of his benefactors.
                  Then rising he crossed over to a lateral altar, the altar of the Blessed Virgin,
                  where he again knelt, and like a child thanking its mother for some unexpected
                  happinesss, poured out his gratitude to her who had obtained the great boon of
                  Faith for those for whom he had been so long praying. When he left the church
                  there were great drops glistening on his grizzly beard which looked strangely like
                  tears!
               "Thanks be to God!" said Patrick McCue, standing at the church door, still holding
                  his hat in his hand and looking undecidedly up and down the street; "it is the
                  wondherfullest thing, out an' out, I ever came across, and I'm most at my wits'
                  end." Then he fell to thinking, and presently exclaimed, with a radiant
                  countenance: "Now I've got it, surely! I'll go sthraight with my dilemma to the
                  Bishop—may he be promoted forever—and get the favor of him to put down a list of
                  the right kind of books, rale convincin', tunderin' books, that'll knock the last
                  bits of heresy that's left in thim to smithereens." And full of a zeal and joy
                  which no language on earth can describe, for it belonged to the realms of the
                  soul, Patrick McCue, still lugging his basket and holding the unfolded letter to
                  his breast, went to the Bishop's house.
               It was not a "palace," not even a "mansion;" it could scarcely be dignified with
                  the title of "residence;" it was simply a plain old two-story brick house, not far
                  from the cathedral, whose door-bell the poor and humble were not afraid to pull,
                  whose threshold the sorrowful and poverty-stricken ones of his flock could cross
                  without dread of pampered servants or worldly grandeurs, or the fear of a rebuff
                  from the prelate, who was indeed their good Shepherd and faithful friend. The door of the dingy
                  little library, which was filled with ancient and modern lore on abstruse
                  questions in theology and philosophy, and many a treatise worth its weight in gold
                  even according to worldly valuation, rich in volumes collected here and there from
                  the old monasteries of Europe and Asia, some written in languages almost
                  forgotten, besides some rare relics of early Christian literature—that door ever
                  opened with Christianly welcome, admitted the lowly as well as the great, the
                  sinner as well as the saint; and to each one the good Bishop listened patiently
                  and sympathizingly; and however great the needs of those who came to him for
                  counsel, however hopeless those who came hither for aid, none ever turned from his
                  presence without consolation.
               "Who is it, Dan?" he would say, looking up perhaps from his polyglot Bible, or
                  perhaps from some of the deep sentences of Thomas Aquinas. "Who is it?"
               "And it's only a poor beggar-woman and a boy Bishop; hadn't I betther tell her how
                  busy ye are?" returned Dan.
               "Tell her to come in, poor soul; then fetch some coals in, and if I ring my bell
                  bring in some bread and meat," replied the Bishop, always amused at Dan's tricks
                  to secure him an hour's quiet and at the same time save the household
                  expenses.
               "Faith! I don't know how your Grace'll ever get through them hieroglyphics if
                  everybody—Tom, Dick and Harry—'s to come upon you whinever they like to," Dan
                  would mutter. "But it's no use. I'll take her and her brats in; she'll make about
                  the twentieth since the Bishop's Mass; all comin', comin', to impose upon the soft
                  heart of him, and keepin' him stript of money, and wearing old clothes not fit for
                  a scarecrow. An' I'll get the bread and mate ready, for that bell's sure to
                  ring."
               This was the Bishop's way, and this was also the way of his old major-domo, Dan.
               Patrick McCue rang the door-bell and was admitted without delay to the Bishop's
                  presence, his face beaming with delight as he knelt to get his blessing and kiss
                  the consecrated ring upon the good prelate's finger.
               "I am glad to see you, my man; but won't you sit down?" said the Bishop.
               "Thanks to your lordship," answered Patrick McCue; "an' if you'll kindly allow me
                  to stand I think I can get through what I've come about better nor if I was
                  sitting."
               "Very good, my friend; but I think if you'll notice what a short neck I have, and
                  consider that it will be apt to give me a crick in it if I sit here looking up at
                  you—why, man, you must be descended from the Kerry giants—you will take that chair beside you, just for the comfort
                  of your poor Bishop," said the Bishop.
               "Faith, your Grace, if it would comfort ye I'd go and sit upon the top of the
                  cathedral," replied Patrick, dropping into the chair, confused and embarrassed,
                  and blushing all over his face and head.
               The good Bishop laughed; he had gained his point; then he said: "Now—your
                  name?"
               "McCue, your Grace!"
               "Now, McCue, I am glad to see you, and you have made me very comfortable by
                  sitting down when you are bid; tell me what I can do for you?"
               Then Patrick McCue handed Wolfert Flemming's letter to the Bishop, and with many
                  digressions to the right and to the left told him about the Flemmings and all that
                  had happened up there in the winter. The Bishop listened patiently, picking out
                  the kernel of the nut Patrick was so awkwardly cracking, until he fully understood
                  the pith of the matter; and, deeply interested, he—as soon as McCue finished his
                  narrative—opened the letter and read it from beginning to end. Then he said:
               "This is good news, excellent news, McCue. What do you wish me to do?"
               "Why, don't you see, your Grace, that being an ignoramus, with nothing to boast of
                  except my Faith and my country, I thought you'd know better about the
                  books—"stammered Patrick.
               "I see now. You wish me to make a list of the proper books for you?"
               "Just so, your Grace; I mightn't hit upon the right ones if I set about it
                  myself."
               "You made a very good hit in leaving 'Milner's End of Controversy' with your
                  Puritan friends But I will of course write a list for you. You did right to come
                  to me; it was a wise thought, my child. God has honored you greatly in allowing
                  you as it were to become the instrument of the salvation of these souls. Give Him
                  thanks. I will not forget them, or you, in offering the Holy Sacrifice." And the
                  Bishop dipped his pen into his inkstand and wrote rapidly the titles of several
                  books, and handed the list to Patrick McCue, who had sat watching him, and wishing
                  that he might throw himself down and kiss the floor that the good man's feet
                  rested on, his great, tender Irish heart was so full and overflowing with those
                  filial sentiments of reverence and affection towards his spiritual superior so
                  well understood among Catholics.
               "Is there anything else I can do for you, my child?"
               Yes. There was something on Patrick's mind yet, and waxing a little bold under the
                  gracious and simple kindness of the Bishop's manner, he determined to find out, if
                  he could, what had been a mystery and
                  puzzle to him ever since he had heard it; and he began: "There is, if your Grace
                  will be so good—.But I'm thankful to see your lordship in such health; may it
                  continue."
               "Thank you, Patrick; but you know that 'the race is not always to the swift,' nor
                  the highest health to the fat," said the Bishop, laughing. "Now I'll tell you a
                  secret. I have not seen my own feet for five years, but for all that I have my
                  aches and pains like the rest of the world."
               "It must be a great incumbrance to your Grace, so much flesh; and this"—said the
                  cunning Patrick—"brings to my remimbrance something I'd be glad to be insensed*
                  about, if your reverence won't take the asking of it for impidince."
                     
                     *Made sensible of.
                  
               "Not at all, not at all, Patrick," replied the Bishop, whose genial nature
                  delighted in a little innocent recreation. "Ask whatever you please."
               "Well, thin," said McCue, assuming a most confidential attitude, while he screwed
                  his courage up to the highest point, "I've thought many a time, your Grace, seein'
                  how fleshy you are, how in the name of the world ye ever got up that long laddher,
                  some time ago, to the loft where the two men were dyin' with ship fever?"
               The Bishop burst out laughing. He remembered it all: his fright as he clambered up
                  the steep creaking ladder, wondering after he got up how he should get down; and
                  he remembered the two souls saved by his ministrations, whose pressing needs had
                  made all perils to his own life or limb sink into insignificance. "Upon my word,
                  Patrick," he said, "I would tell you if I could; but it has always been a mystery
                  to me how I did get up there, and a greater one how I got down—the ladder creaked
                  and swayed with my weight in such a way!"
               "And it is a wondher, your grace, that it didn't smash up with the weight of ye,"
                  answered McCue, naively. "But that was nothing, your reverence, to the way you got
                  down into the ould granite quarry to hear the confession of the man who kilt
                  himself and broke every bone in the skin of him? I'd be thankful to know the way
                  you reached him!"
               "Oh! well, well, my man! there were some of your brave countrymen there, who with
                  the assistance of Almighty God helped me to do His work. It was a tough job
                  though, getting down to the poor mangled fellow, who died in my arms just after
                  receiving the Holy Viaticum; and I was a little out of breath when I got back 'out
                  of the depths' of the quarry," said the Bishop.
               "And no wondher—God reward your lordship for your charity. It's a meracle
                  altogether, considerin' siderin' the
                  weight of you, how you got out of it alive. And, faith, I shouldn't be surprised
                  if your grace could walk on the tight-rope itself if some poor soul at the other
                  end of it should call for your assistance!"
               "God forbid such a thing happening!" said the good Bishop, diverted beyond measure
                  at the genuine simplicity of the man. "I should have to try you know, at all
                  risks, Patrick."
               "The Lord save us! and deliver your reverence from all such divilthry as that. But
                  I must be goin'," said Patrick gravely, as he took his hat from under the chair,
                  uncoiled his long legs and picked up his basket, standing before the good Bishop,
                  who said: "I should like to learn something more of these converts, McCue;
                  whenever you hear from them, come and let me know; and don't forget hereafter to
                  call me what all my good children in Boston do, 'Father Ben.' I like that above
                  all. God bless you, my child." And the Bishop gave him his blessing as he knelt
                  before him, then he went his ways feeling happier and more elated than he had ever
                  been in his whole life.
               Without going home to rest, Patrick McCue trudged on a mile farther with his heavy
                  basket to the then only Catholic bookstore in Boston, and, presenting the list
                  written by the Bishop, was fortunate in getting all of the books he had
                  recommended. Among them was a "Catechism of the Council of Trent," "Cochin on the
                  Mass," a Catholic prayer-book, an "Imitation of Christ," and several others. To
                  these Patrick McCue added of his own selection, "The Papist Represented and
                  Misrepresented;" and "The travels of an Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion,"
                  by his countryman and favorite, Tommy Moore; also a book on Catholic art,
                  containing illustrations from the old masters: this was "for Reuben, with Patrick
                  McCue's best love," written upon the fly-leaf; then he bought a rosary and
                  prayer-book for Hope, and a crucifix and prayer-book for Eva, all duly directed on
                  the parcels, and signed "Patrick McCue, with his respects." Then, feeling still
                  better satisfied with himself, he wended his way back to his little shop, where he
                  sold wares of every sort and description, a sort of enlarged pedler's pack, out of
                  which he was coining honest profits; and then he packed the books and his
                  presents, along with the bookseller's receipt and the change left over, and
                  prolonged his delight by putting twice as many nails in the top of the box and
                  hammering upon them just twice as long as was necessary, until finding there was
                  danger of splitting it to pieces he threw down his hammer and got the black paint
                  and brush to label it; and his delight was pleasant to see, as with an indescribable flourish
                  he wrote name and address upon the lid as if every letter meant a blessing. Then
                  when he could do nothing more to it he closed his shop and locking the door,
                  shouldered the box and strode down to the stage-office with it, prouder of his
                  burden than he would have been of a field-marshal's baton. And he gave so many
                  directions and charges about the safety of the box, that the stage-driver,
                  bothered and exasperated, threatened not to take it at all if he "didn't hold his
                  jaw and be off."
               Then Patrick gave in, and stood off at a safe distance, watching it with jealous
                  eyes until the stage drove off and was out of sight; then he stuffed his hands
                  into his pockets and went homewards, whistling "The Blackbird" like a fife, and
                  thinking he would be glad to get his dinner, having eaten nothing since six
                  o'clock that morning—and it was then four. "Bedad!" he thought, "but it's a day of
                  days, surely; and the best part of it is the letter I'll get to-night from the
                  ould mother, God bless her, that's lying waitin' for me at the post-office." And
                  the thought of it so lightened his heart that he scarcely felt the ground under
                  his feet as he hurried along.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               SORROWS ARE NOT ACCIDENTS.
               As he had promised her, John Wilde came almost every evening to read "Milner's End
                  of Controversy" with Hope, and occasionally had long, grave talks with Wolfert
                  Flemming himself on the subject of their new belief, but as yet he had found
                  nothing in it all to make him feel even for a moment willing to abandon his own
                  religious principles for others which seemed to his comprehension, no better. He
                  was, he firmly believed, a converted man, possessed of that inward light against
                  which it was impossible for a true believer to err; "of what use would it be
                  then"—he argued—"to be running after novelties in faith, which already perplex and
                  disturb my mind. Simple gospel doctrines are good enough for me; and I cannot, if
                  I would, go against my conscience, even for the sake of Hope." It is true that the
                  man's mind had become somewhat enlightened, and the great scarecrow which
                  Protestants call "Popery" was quite torn down and demolished in his sight, while
                  he had nearer and better views of the True Faith; indeed, he frankly admitted that
                  the Flemmings had good reasons to show for their change of faith; but the best and
                  only result attained by him was that he
                  had come to look upon the Catholic religion as a Christian sect—a great advance
                  for a Puritan of that day—and could not see why such difficulties should be raised
                  about the marriage of himself and Hope. Seeing the daily life of the Flemmings,
                  and noting their righteous, cheerful way of life, and how the inward peace of
                  their souls permeated every act and word and thought—making their religion,
                  without any self-assertion on their part, integral with their very existence—he
                  could not for the life of him see the wide gulf that separated them, and quite
                  lost sight of his dread of all the unhappiness which would inevitably result from
                  a union where there was such a wide difference of religious belief. The more he
                  was with them, the more consoled he inwardly felt; and finally made up his mind,
                  if Hope would consent to marry him then, just to trust to Providence, leaving all
                  religious discussions out of the question, and yielding everything to her except
                  his own individual belief. He told her as much, in good, manly faith, but she gave
                  no assent to the plan, and the little she did say quite discouraged him. About
                  this time the Elders and the Deacons of his sect, led on by old Father Ray, began
                  to make his time uncomfortable by the way they felt moved to take his affairs in
                  hand. They rebuked and counseled him in season and out of season, in private and
                  in public lic; his being so much with the Flemmings was in itself a grave offense,
                  but when it got to be known that he was reading their Popish books and spending
                  hours at a time in religious conversation with the banned ex-Elder, they
                  threatened roundly to turn him out of meeting if he did not speedily mend his
                  ways. Then John Wilde's spirit was up, and he told them plainly that "they might
                  do as they pleased. No earthly consideration could make him a Roman Catholic; but
                  if Hope Flemming would marry him, not all the world should prevent it. He was a
                  staunch believer in the doctrines of the Westminster Catechism and in simple
                  gospel teachings, and saw no prospect now or henceforth of ever having any other
                  belief, and with that they must remain satisfied and not meddle with him or his
                  affairs." They did not judicially meddle with him again, but they did not exactly
                  let him alone; they made him feel in a thousand ingenious ways that he was, as it
                  were, under a ban; their intercourse with him, once so friendly and cordial,
                  became cold and formal; he saw himself actually shunned on certain occasions, and
                  more than twice or thrice he had to sit in the old meeting-house and hear sermons
                  preached at him, prayers prayed at him, and hymns sung at him, until, half beside
                  himself, he was tempted to fling his hat on his head and march out from among them. But conscious of his own
                  religious integrity, these vexations, while they stung and irritated him, did not
                  make him waver a hair's-breadth from his own spiritual standpoint. The hardest
                  trial of all to the true, tender heart of the man were the pleadings and tears of
                  his own mother, whose fears, excited and exaggerated by all the things she heard
                  from Father Ray, Deacon Sneathen, Miss Deborah, and others of the like sort, made
                  her almost give up her boy as lost. Then John Wilde realized something of Job's
                  trials in having his friends and kinsmen and those of his own house stirred up
                  against him, treating him like a sinner and backslider, when he was never more
                  faithful and firm in his religious belief since his conversion than at that time.
                  "If I could only believe as the Flemming's do," he said one day hotly to his
                  mother, "I'd stand this no longer; but I can't—I couldn't believe those doctrines
                  to save my life. I almost wish I could, for the sake of peace and my own
                  happiness. But for all that, if Hope—Romanist though she be—will consent I shall
                  marry her, come what will." And constant to his purpose, he went straight down to
                  the "Old Homestead," and asking to see Hope alone, proposed to her to marry him
                  without any further delay. But she, who had been thinking long and prayerfully
                  over the matter, weighing all that was for and against it in her own clear mind,
                  had come, with many a sharp pang, to the deliberate conclusion that it would be
                  best for the happiness of them both that all should be finally over between them;
                  and so she told him, her cheeks blanching whiter and whiter, and her eyes
                  overflowing with tears she tried in vain to keep back as she spoke.
               "You do not mean this, Hope; surely you do not mean it?" he said, utterly shocked
                  and surprised.
               "I mean it; every word of it. Let us part, John; for from this moment all that has
                  ever been between us must be over." The effort she made to speak firmly imparted a
                  sternness to her manner and a severity to her words which gave the coup de grace to the man's hopes, putting an end to
                  all his torture of uncertainty and conflict with himself. Angry and grieved,
                  thinking but little or nothing of her sacrifice, only knowing how earnestly she
                  meant whatever she said, he got up to leave her without a friendly word or a clasp
                  of the hand. Standing before her for an instant, his hat crushed in his hand, he
                  said in a low, harsh tone, almost choked with emotion: "You have ruined my life,
                  Hope Flemming, unless God helps me. I have done all and promised all that lay in
                  the scope of my power to do or promise, and you have trodden my great love under
                  foot, and sacrificed me to a fanaticism I cannot understand." Then, dumb and helpless, sick at heart but strong in the
                  will to do what was right, she did not speak; and he went away. The next that Hope
                  Flemming heard of her lover, he was on his way to visit the far off lands beyond
                  the ocean.
               Religion does not avert grief or its sting; it shields us neither from cross or
                  loss, or the crucifixions of nature, but it has a sweet distilling balm for the
                  faithful soul who seeks strength and resignation in it, leading her through the
                  fiery ordeals unscathed, where her dross and imperfections are consumed, and heals
                  at last the deep wounds of her life which have elevated her to heights near
                  heaven. Sorrows are not accidents; they form the very woof which is woven into the
                  warp of life. They develop the soul's life; and every son of man who would attain
                  the true end of his being must be baptized with fire. "It is," writes one,*
                   "the law of our humanity, as that of Christ, that we be perfected through
                  suffering; and he who has not discerned the divine sadness of sorrow, and the
                  profound meaning which is concealed in pain, has yet to learn what life is. The
                  Cross, manifested as the necessity of the highest life, alone interprets it."
               
                  
                  *Robertson
               
               Hope Flemming's heart was sorely tried, as we may imagine; but her new faith, upon
                  whose altar she had laid her sacrifice, taught her where to seek for consolation
                  and help. And the pain of her trial was neither light or fleeting; it paled her
                  cheeks, it took the brightness out of her eyes and the elasticity from her step
                  for many a long day, leaving the peace of her soul undisturbed by regrets, and
                  strengthened by the consciousness of a pure intention.
               Of course this sudden breaking up of Hope's prospects added much to the cup of
                  Mrs. Flemming's bitterness, and she said words that had been better left unsaid;
                  unwise, unmotherly words, that thinking them over, almost made the girl believe
                  that her mother's reason was temporarily unsettled by her troubles. They had all,
                  from the father down, been very tender with the poor little mother, bearing all
                  that she said and did with sweet patience, knowing how honestly she thought they
                  were wrong and she right, and what good reason—in her own opinion—she had to feel
                  sore and troubled; in fact, what real trials and cares had come upon her through
                  their confession of the Catholic Faith; but, so far, it had not appeared to soften
                  her; she went about her daily domestic tasks as she had been doing all her life,
                  never omitting the slightest minutiæ, and attending with scrupulous care to the
                  individual comforts and needs of each one of her household, and ordering all things with care and neatness;
                  there was no diminution of any comforts her husband and children and servants had
                  been accustomed to, except that she became rigidly economical in the table
                  expenses, and they missed the old cheerful ring of her voice singing over her
                  work, and her quiet, decisive tones heard here and there and everywhere through
                  the house; she was very silent nowadays, and only answered them in monosyllables
                  when they tried to get her to talk with them.
               None of them had ever known such hard, plain fare in their lives; but the
                  Flemmings were of a strong, healthful race, and did not mind that—none of them
                  except Nicholas, who was growling one day over his dinner when Mrs. Flemming broke
                  out with:
               "We are too poor now, Nicholas, to waste things in luxurious living. If people
                  could only be satisfied without running after newfangled notions, much trouble
                  would be spared in the world. As a man makes his bed so he must lie. You've all
                  turned Papists, and must bear the consequences."
               This was more than the little woman had said for a long time, and Nicholas not
                  knowing exactly what answer to make, took a stick, and his knife out of his
                  pocket, and began to whittle, whistling under his breath at the same time. If he
                  had not finished his dinner he would have fallen to and tried everything before
                  him; for he dearly loved his mother, and would have done anything in his sturdy,
                  awkward way to restore her peace of mind even for a moment; but he was quite at a
                  loss for something to say which would not make matters worse, but could think of
                  nothing, and whittled and whistled in a low sybilant undertone until the table was
                  cleared away, and he was left sitting in the middle of the floor with a little
                  heap of shavings at his feet, which his mother was about sweeping into a dust-pan,
                  stooping over with the veins in her forehead swollen and full, when he sprang up,
                  gathered her suddenly in his great arms, kissed her lips and cheeks, and carried
                  her to her chair, where he sat her down all amazed and out of breath at such
                  doings; then, before she could speak, he had snatched the dust-pan and brush out
                  of her hands, cleared up every vestige of the litter he had made, and vanished out
                  of the side door down the garden path. Mrs. Flemming's first impulse was to box
                  Nicholas, her next was to laugh outright; it was all so ridiculous; but she did
                  neither, and her face settled back into its grim, rigid lines again, although in
                  her heart she was warmed and pleased with the rough caressing of her "bear," as
                  she sometimes in the old days used to call him.
               
               "It's a comfort that he at least has something to look forward to," thought his
                  mother, looking after him as he disappeared down the garden path; "but it's all
                  owing to Huldah's indifference to gospel truth and her determination to marry him
                  in spite of everything. And Huldah will be very rich when her father dies. The
                  Deacon holds only a life estate in the property, which comes to her from her
                  mother. His control over it is absolute; she can't get a penny of it, if he
                  chooses to keep her out of it now; but she and Nick don't mind waiting, for
                  they'll have it all some day." And these hard, practical thoughts about her son's
                  good prospects came now and then through the darkness that surrounded her, like
                  sunrays through the clouds of a stormy sky, comforting and somewhat consoling the
                  poor little woman.
               Mrs. Flemming went to meeting every Sabbath, the chaise driven by Reuben, who
                  dutifully attended public worship with her; she, with her stern, sorrowful face,
                  intent only on the religious exercises that were going on, and trying in this her
                  hour of trial to quench her thirst from cisterns that held no water, and receiving
                  stones instead of bread, for which the hungry soul was starving; Reuben,
                  indifferent to all around him, not caring a straw, in fact, where he went on
                  Sabbath, so that he could go on dreaming out his dream unmolested lested; and
                  behaving so strangely, standing up when he should have knelt, kneeling when he
                  should have sat, and breaking out in shrill falsetto notes when he should have
                  sung in solemn tune, that Deacon Sneathen and others declared the boy was crazy.
                  And his absurd awkwardness to set things right when a touch of his mother's hand,
                  or the astonished glance of some one near him, or the sharp whisper of some
                  indignant Pharisee, recalled him to himself, did make him appear just a little
                  flighty; but Reuben was not crazy, and these were only the symptoms cropping out
                  of the mystery of his life, about which he was dreaming and thinking all the
                  time.
               So it came to pass that while all the rest of the Flemmings were banned and
                  morally outlawed, Mrs. Flemming got to be looked upon as a suffering saint, and
                  her old friends and neighbors always collected around her after meeting to show by
                  their sympathetic greetings and outspoken speeches about her heavy trials, and
                  their uncouth attempts to console, which only probed and tortured instead of
                  comforting her, that whatever they might feel towards the rest of her family their
                  friendly interest in her was unchanged. But she received all of their
                  demonstrations with a stiff reserve which astonished them, and had even seemed to
                  resent Father Ray's praying publicly for her as one under heavy tribulation. She wanted none of their pity;
                  whatever she had a right to do and think about her own flesh and
                  blood, she couldn't stand by and see them outlawed, persecuted, and ruined in
                  fortune and estate, and shake hands over it all with those who did it, knowing all
                  the time in her inmost heart that there was not a man among them whose walk before
                  God was so pure and upright as her husband's. It became clear to them all, after
                  awhile, that she neither wanted their sympathy nor adulation, and they began to
                  understand that she came constantly to meeting, not to keep in favor with them,
                  but because she thought it right and consistent for her to do so. But they pitied
                  her none the less, and said all manner of kind things of her over their tea-cups,
                  and some of them even went so far as to go and see her to tell her how her friends
                  felt for her; but old Lady Pendarvis herself, could she have stept out of her
                  frame, could not have been more frigid and reticent than her Puritan descendant,
                  Martha Flemming, and when her guests went away she did not invite them to come
                  again. She preferred fighting out her battle alone; with the instincts of a wild
                  animal she hid herself, wishing none to see her wounds.
               Soon after John Wilde left the country George Merill came up from Boston, fired
                  with indignation tion and full of great intentions. His grandfather had written
                  him a long letter giving him a particular account of all that had happened at the
                  "Old Homestead," and of the present status, moral, temporal and social, of the
                  family, hoping that it would put to flight forever any thought his grandson might
                  still have of seeking Eva Flemming for his wife. But he did not know the young
                  fellow, who, leaving his constant devotion for Eva out of the question, had become
                  during his residence at the "Hub" a something that was half Pagan, half
                  Unitarian—whose strange tenets allowed a scope of liberality towards other creeds
                  which was boundless; hence he did not care a twig for Eva's being a Catholic; but
                  he did care, and took it sorely to heart, when he heard from his friend and ally,
                  Huldah Sneathen, who wrote him an astonishing letter, all the particulars of the
                  social interdict laid on his old friends, and how nearly they were ruined. She
                  told him, too, of the trap which her father and aunt were laying for him; "but the
                  cunning old souls might as well save their time for something better; for you
                  know, George, even if I were not engaged to Nick Flemming, whose very footprints I
                  love, I wouldn't marry you to save your life." George Merill burst out laughing;
                  then he thought of the Flemmings and swore a little, and ended by pitching some of
                  his city clothes into a valise and
                  starting right off for the hill country, where he arrived about dusk the following
                  day, and swinging his valise in his hand he walked up towards the "Old Homestead."
                  Near the house he met Mrs. Flemming, who had been to see her old "help," Sarah
                  Gill, who was bedridden and had got a palsy of the head from the shock of hearing
                  suddenly that Elder Flemming and his children had turned Papists, and spent her
                  time relating her astounding dreams, which she called "visions," and telling of
                  "death-watches" and mysterious tappings, and a "grief child" which appeared to her
                  whenever she fell into a doze—"all signs and wonders," she declared—"rising out of
                  the dretful doings down yonder," meaning the Old Homestead.
               When Mrs. Flemming saw George Merill, a sudden hope took possession of her which
                  brightened her eyes and brought a warm glow over her pale, thin face, making her
                  look ten years younger; but there was a little quivering of her lips as she held
                  out her hand and said: "George, I am very glad to see you."
               "I am very glad to see you, Mrs. Flemming," he said, grasping her hand warmly. "I
                  was just on my way to your house. I only jumped out of the stage a little while
                  ago, you see," he added, swinging his valise round.
               "You haven't been up to the Minister's, then! I do wonder?" answered Mrs.
                  Flemming.
               "No. My grandfather and I are sure to quarrel when we meet; and, as I must go back
                  to-morrow, I thought I'd see what awaited me here before I have my set-to up
                  there. How are they all, Mrs. Flemming?"
               "All well—in health," she added.
               "And Eva! I have come to see her; is she at home?"
               "Yes, Eva is at home."
               "You see, Mrs, Flemming," said the young fellow, full of his generous, unselfish
                  love, holding her hand in his, "I have heard all about the row there's been up
                  here, and how the godly brethren have behaved to the Elder, and I left everything
                  to come and ask Eva once more if she will marry me. I have to go back to-morrow; I
                  have a case coming up in court in a few days and shall have to hurry off to be
                  there in time."
               "I can promise you nothing, George," answered Mrs. Flemming. "You know our house
                  is divided against itself now; I am a cipher as to intluence. But come in, and go
                  into the parlor; I will send Eva to you. I wish you well, I am sure, if you don't
                  mind her being a Pa——a Roman Catholic."
               "I shouldn't mind it if she were a Pagan; she could never be anything but Eva to me," he replied,
                  as they entered the house together.
               "Go into the parlor. I will send Eva in," repeated Mrs. Flemming, as she went into
                  the old part of the house in search of Eva, who was in her bedroom tacking up the
                  clean, snowy window-curtains—just from under the iron—over the windows.
               "Some one is on the parlor wishing to see you, Eva," said Mrs. Flemming, just
                  putting her head into the door, then going directly away—almost feeling mean, for
                  this was the first deception she had ever practiced in her life; but the hope of
                  the good that might come of it reconciled and quieted her conscience.
               Eva, who had no thought of George Merill in her mind, put in the last tack, looped
                  back the curtains, and hastily smoothing back her curling hair and tying on a nice
                  black silk apron, ran down stairs, her sweet face flushed and illuminated with a
                  smile of welcome; but when she opened the parlor door and saw who her guest was,
                  her first impulse was to draw back and go away without speaking; the smile faded
                  out of her face, and a grave, almost a stern expression settled on her
                  countenance; but the Flemmings, as we know, had nice ideas of hospitality, and
                  would not have inflicted a rudeness upon their greatest enemy under the sanctuary
                  of their own roof; so she went in, and without out any word of welcome, shook
                  hands with him, asked him how he was, and sat down in the chair he placed for her.
                  He soon let her know what had brought him there, and she listened patiently to all
                  he had to say. Touched by the constancy of his affection, and his generous
                  devotion, unlike th spirit of the little world around her, Eva hesitated a moment
                  in answering him—hesitated, because she shrunk from giving only pain in return for
                  all that he offered; then in a sweet, womanly way put an end to his hopes, saying:
                  "I am sorry to inflict pain, as I am conscious I shall do, but the only answer
                  that I can give you, George, is what—"
               "Before you say any more, Eva," he interrupted, "listen to all that I have to say.
                  I know what has happened up here relative to your having become Roman Catholics,
                  all of you, and there may be something in your mind on that score. But let no
                  thought of the religious difference between us influence your decision, for I tell
                  you honestly, before God, that I'd as lief my wife should be a Roman Catholic as
                  anything else; in fact it would take but little, I think, to bring me over; but
                  whether I am brought over or not there should not be the impediment of a straw
                  laid in your path, and a portion of my fortune should go towards
                  building and decorating churches of your faith, if it would make you any
                  happier."
               
               He had spoken rapidly and earnestly it was evident that he meant every word he
                  uttered, and in proportion to his generosity so did her
                  repugnance to give him pain increase; but he must be answered, and Eva said:
               "I believe all that you have said, George—every word. You are worthy of the
                  devotion of a true and noble nature like your own; but as for me, the only answer
                  that I can give you is what I told you before, I shall never marry—be assured of
                  that, and some day, perhaps not far distant, you will understand much that seems
                  heartless to you now, and your generous soul will give me full pardon. I shall
                  never forget you, my brother, and shall pray that your nobleness of soul be
                  rewarded tenfold. I thank you for coming—yes, thank you for coming in this the
                  hour of our trial, when other friends and neighbors stand aloof—and doing that
                  which, while it convinces me that there does exist in the world noble
                  unselfishness and true constancy, will bring only blame and derision upon
                  yourself. But let us part—part as friends; and if prayers will help you, mine
                  shall abide with you as a shield and defence through life."
               There was a strange, bright calm brooding over the girl's beautiful face as she
                  held out her hand to him, and the tears that sparkled on her long eyelashes and
                  rolled over her cheeks had a deeper significance nificance than he could fathom
                  then; bat he knew that it was all over now, and with a sudden impulse he leaned
                  over and kissed her forehead saying: 'Just this once, Eva; it is the seal on the
                  sepulchre of my dearest hopes. Ours is a long farewell and it will take a tedious
                  time to smooth away the remembrance of this—to me—bitter parting. I cannot
                  understand you, Eva; but good-by—it is useless to defer going," he said, holding
                  out his hand.
               "Good-by, my friend and brother," she answered, as he wrung her hand and then
                  passed away out of her sight, a saddened and disappointed man.
               "Is George Merill gone, Eva?" inquired Mrs. Flemming, an hour or so later.
               "Yes, mother. We parted as friends, nothing more," she answered. "He has gone back
                  to Boston"
               "I hope you won't live to repent it," replied Mrs. Flemming. "You and Hope have
                  made a nice mess of it: such prospects as you both had."
               "Try and be patient over it, dear mother. I trust that you will see it all come
                  out right at last. You will at least keep your daughters the longer."
               "Nonsense. My daughters are like other women, and should be settled for life in
                  comfortable homes of their own; and I am like other mothers, and
                  would be glad when my last hours come, to know that they have husbands to protect them and their own roof to shelter
                  them. I don't understand all this new fangled, romantic nonsense." Having thus
                  delivered herself, the disappointed little woman went away to solace herself with
                  reading a chapter out of "Fox's Book of the Martyrs," and thought fire and sword
                  would be better than the slow torture she had been enduring for months.
               That night the stage left Patrick McCue's box of books at Wolfert Flemming's door,
                  and it was immediately taken into the "work-room" where, after the family had
                  retired to rest, he opened it and spent half the night examining its contents,
                  rejoicing over the treasures it contained, with far greater joy than he would have
                  experienced had it been filled with the costliest jewels on earth. Here was all he
                  wanted until he should experience the reward of Faith in the substance of things
                  hoped for; until the supreme moment when, being made outwardly as well as inwardly
                  a member of the true fold of Christ, he would receive the "Bread of Life" for
                  which his soul had been so long hungering. And how strangely had Providence
                  favored him even in this! It had seemed to him sometimes like a most haphazard
                  proceeding to have written and sent a money-letter to a man whose business made
                  him a very nomad, and who might never have seen Boston since he left the
                  hill-country try; Wolfert Flemming felt at such moments as if his wife was
                  justifiable in calling it, with some sharp remarks, not only "a foolish
                  proceeding," but "a sinful throwing away of money." But, as we know, Patrick McCue
                  had got the letter, and here were the books, a bill and receipt, and the right
                  change to a fraction.
               Mrs. Flemming knew that the books had come, from seeing Reuben unwrapping and
                  examining those sent him by the pedler, who would have been somewhat astonished if
                  he had seen the boy lay carelessly aside "The Travels of an Irish Gentleman in
                  Search of a Religion," by "Tommy Moore," and begin to read, nay, to devour with
                  feverish avidity, the book illustrative of "Art in Catholic Ages." Was she never
                  to hear the last of that pedler, who had brought her such dole? Was he to be
                  forever coming up in some shape or other to torment her? She began to think
                  so.
               The next morning Mrs. Flemming in brushing up and putting things to rights in the
                  "workroom," a labor of love which she had always reserved to herself, and still
                  continued, gathered up a heap of rubbish strewed over the floor, in which the
                  books had been packed, and was going to throw it into the wood-box for kindlings,
                  when she felt something smooth and hard strike against her hand, something heavier
                  than the straw and shavings ings she
                  held, and upon examining she discovered that it was a small leather-bound book,
                  which she involuntarily opened, led by instinctive curiosity and a natural desire
                  to see what it was. "The Papist Represented and Misrepresented," she read in a low
                  voice. "Here are two sides at last, and I will read it to see if there is any
                  reason in it." She thrust the book hastily into her pocket, determined—as it had
                  been evidently overlooked and accidently dropped—to say nothing about it, until,
                  having satisfied her curiosity, she would lay it among her husband's papers,
                  leaving him to discover it the best way he could.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               WOLFERT FLEMMING'S BIRTHDAY
               Mrs. Flemming read the little book she had found among the litter of the
                  "work-room;" she carried it about with her in her pocket, for fear some of them
                  should accidentally see it, and took the opportunity now and then to slip up into
                  her bedroom, after supper, and read it while her husband and children were reading
                  the books sent by Patrick McCue, reading them as thirsty travellers in the desert
                  drink from a suddenly discovered fountain beneath the shadow of broad-spreading
                  palms. Up there alone, like "a sparrow on the house-top," she read it with
                  alternate emotions of fierce satisfaction and uncomfortable doubts for here it
                  represents the Catholic religion according to Protestant ideas, there represents
                  it to the reader as it truly is, in all its wonderful simplicity and sublime
                  truth. The first pleased her throughout her whole Puritan nature; the second she
                  would have dismissed from her thoughts and entirely ignored if she could; but it
                  was impossible—the antithesis left an impression upon her which she could not get
                  rid of, and like a moral pendulum it kept her mind vibrating from side to side,
                  wondering if, after all, the Catholic version of the question could be right. But
                  she kept her secret bravely; and the result of it all was that she was made more
                  bitter by her resistance to the truth and the mental disturbance that it
                  occasioned her.
               She had grown, in a measure, accustomed to the strange order of things about her;
                  and, although silent and grave, could not altogether stand out against the patient
                  and loving forbearance of her husband and children towards her. She had lost none
                  of their love, and she was thankful for that; and her heart was touched to its
                  inmost core by their constant endeavor to express it in all the varied
                  circumstances of their daily life. She watched with jealous eye for something on their part which
                  would bring a scandal on their new profession and offer her a salient point of
                  attack; but she watched in vain—for not only were their lives pure and without
                  guile, but their unaffected cheerfulness and their constant devotion to herself
                  made her feel very often that she was making herself miserable without just cause.
                  Never before had Mrs. Flemming seen religion more beautifully exemplified than in
                  the daily lives of her husband and children; never had she seen trials borne with
                  so sweet a patience or with such noble courage; never had she seen in all her life
                  until now the active fruits of a true spiritual life, ripening in the eternal
                  sunshine of a true faith. She could not understand it; and do what she might, she
                  could find nothing to sweeten the bitter fact that the beings she most loved on
                  earth were Papists. On the other hand, without the remotest idea of following
                  their example, she felt with the deepest resentment the treatment her husband and
                  family had met with from her brethren—their life-long friends and neighbors. "One
                  would suppose," she would think to herself, after mentally summing up her
                  grievances, "that they had committed murder or theft." And now that this little
                  waif of a book kept her constantly drifting out among doubts and fears which
                  fevered her very soul, the poor little woman felt that she was literally between
                  two fires.
               We don't wish the reader to suppose that Wolfert Flemming and his daughters lived
                  in a state of ecstasy, lifted high above the reach of the trials and anxieties
                  which had gathered and were still gathering about them, for they were human, and
                  felt the splinters of their cross, and their spirits sometimes sunk within them;
                  indeed we do not know but that there were moments when they were tempted to look
                  back into Egypt, with its fleshpots savory with garlick and sweet-smelling herbs;
                  but their faith was strong; it was "like an anchor, sure and steadfast" to their
                  souls, and helped them to rise when they fell; to look away from the savory messes
                  of Egypt, with hope, towards the manna of eternal life; to bear, with their sad
                  faces turned towards the eternal goal whose far-off lights cheered their souls,
                  the wounds that tortured them, without complaint—and, in the name of God, "fight
                  the good fight" which would in the end perfect them in patience. They found the
                  Catholic religion no shield against human or spiritual trials; but it taught them
                  how to bear the thorny passes of life, and how to sanctify their nature by
                  submission to the Divine will, and where to find consolation and peace when the
                  earthly reed on which they leaned broke and pierced them. Their faith, for which they suffered, did not allow
                  the fountain from which they drank to remain always bitter, but, like the prophet
                  of old, when they were fainting with thirst, threw in immortal leaves which
                  sweetened the waters, giving them strength and refreshment. And they cheered and
                  held up each other's hands, never allowing a despondent word to escape their lips,
                  or a despondent cloud to shadow their faces.
               And the weeks passed on, bringing new trials and worries. The season, which had
                  commenced with such rare and genial mildness that the farmers, beguiled by its
                  seductive warmth, had planted and sown, and were rubbing their hands together with
                  delight over their prospective crops, suddenly became cold and wet. Rain fell
                  constantly, and rotted the seed in the ground, and there was a doubt among them if
                  they would save enough of their crops to supply their own domestic needs. The
                  inclement, unseasonable weather brought a strange and fatal disease among the
                  cattle, which killed off hundreds of them, to the great distress and loss of their
                  owners. Huldah Sneathen's beautiful white heifer, around whose sleek neck she
                  delighted to hang garlands of wild flowers, and feed with the daintiest clover and
                  nicest morsels, died, and she was crying over it, thinking no one saw her when her
                  Aunt Debby's sharp voice interrupted her tears, saying: "I admire to see you,
                  Huldy! Get up, and come away from that critter; you'll be sure to catch the pison.
                  I b'lieve the Lord has cussed the land for the sin of them down yonder"—pointing
                  towards the "Old Homestead."
               "Go away, Aunt Debby, and let me be," said Huldah, flashing round her flushed,
                  tear-stained face upon the spinster; "and don't go on making such a fool of
                  yourself. If anything's brought a curse on the land, it's the treatment you
                  pharisees have given them 'down yonder;' and take care the Lord don't condemn the
                  Pharisee and commend the poor publican, as He did once before. Go away, and let me
                  and my heifer alone." And Miss Debby sniffed and went her way, knowing by
                  experience that it was no use for her to say anything more, or stay looking on;
                  but she would have relished above all things giving Huldah a sound box on her ears
                  before she went; her fingers tingled to do it, but this was a luxury she could
                  never hope to enjoy again, and she had to make the best of it she could.
               Wolfert Flemming did not lose more than his neighbors; but the debt hanging over
                  him and the unexpected breaking up of his business made his losses bear more
                  heavily upon him. He was determined not to sell if he could help it; but how he
                  was to help it he could not tell. If he could have foreseen all this, he would not have used up his
                  ready money and gone into debt in making the improvements about his place and
                  adding to his lands; but he never dreamed of such difficulties, and knew at the
                  time that the profits of his business, steadily increasing, would extricate him
                  certainly in three years from all indebtedness; but here he was stranded high and
                  dry, without an idea of how he should get afloat once more. He would try honestly
                  to hold by his own, and if all efforts failed he would give up everything rather
                  than wrong any man. Some months lay before him, and if his creditors were not
                  disposed to persecute him on account of his changing his religion, which he had
                  good reason to fear they would, he hoped to be able to gather enough money
                  together to pay a portion of the principal and the full interest of the debt, or
                  rather the mortgage on his property. This man was blessed with large hope and
                  greater faith, and, as he told his family, he "would make every exertion to stave
                  off the breaking up of their old home; but they must prepare themselves, as he was
                  trying to do, to submit to the will of God, however the affair might result."
               He had a small, unproductive farm of a few acres, about a mile and a half away,
                  rented to a man named Wilbur, who was in arrears for a year's rent, and out of
                  employment. He hoped to find a purchaser for the "Mill Farm" as it was called—from
                  the fact that there was a ruined mill there whose wheel had once been turned by a
                  broad, bright stream of water, long since gone dry, which of course rendered the
                  mill useless, and it had fallen to decay. If he could sell the "Mill Farm" to
                  advantage, it would be a great help to him, and he determined to put it into the
                  market at once; not that he expected to be able to find a purchaser immediately,
                  but it would give people time to talk and think about it, and find out how it
                  would be to their advantage to buy it in time for his needs. Besides this, there
                  was a balance of three hundred dollars still due him from the firm of Sneathen
                  & Flemming, which he had enough of the old Adam left in him to make him too
                  proud to dun Sneathen & Co., about. But he held their acknowledgment of
                  indebtedness in black and white, and if they did not offer payment soon he would
                  have to come down on them for it.
               We see how the earthly prosperity in which Mrs. Flemming had gloried a few months
                  past was crumbling and fading around her; how swiftly, like a meteor, the bright
                  prospects of the future had been quenched, and how the shadows of adversity
                  continued to gather around them. The wolf was at their door, and it was only a
                  question of time how soon he would enter. The bitter prejudice against their faith, the fanatical resentment of
                  their old friends and acquaintances, closed every avenue of help against them;
                  there would have been some human and friendly feeling left for them if they had
                  only turned infidels, but they had become Roman Catholics, which in the eyes of
                  these staunch Puritans was the culminating point of all that was infamous and
                  dreadful; hence they watched afar off, with complacent self-gratulation, the
                  approach of what they called retributive justice on the heads of these offenders,
                  assured in their own minds that the Almighty would be satisfied with nothing short
                  of their destruction.
               Nicholas Flemming had applied for the District School, the teacher having died six
                  months before, and the Committee being unable to get any one to supply his place;
                  but, bless you! Nick might as well have applied for the President's chair at
                  Washington; his application was not even considered, but returned to him with the
                  curt remark written on the back: "The School Committee decline all communication
                  with, or employment of, Papists."
               "I'm not a Papist—yet, anyhow!"—exclaimed Nicholas hotly, "and I'd like to go and
                  punch their stupid old heads for them."
               "Have courage! if your good act has called forth a mean and ignoble one, how can
                  it hurt you?" said Wolfert Flemming, feeling strongly in spite of himself at the
                  insult. "I only wish you possessed fully the faith for the sake of which they
                  persecute you."
               "I wish I did, father, and I believe that in time I shall," replied Nicholas.
                  "There's one thing certain: if I can't believe enough to become a Catholic, I
                  shall be nothing. I believe they'd burn us all at the stake, if they could; I
                  really do."
               "Hush, Nicholas," said his mother, with a red spot on each cheek.
               "I will, mother; they're your friends," said Nicholas, sorry the moment after for
                  saying it.
               "Are they?" she asked drily.
               "Nicholas," said his father, glad to change the subject, "I want you to go down to
                  Wilbur's this afternoon, and see if he can pay his rent or any part of it. Tell
                  him I'm pressed for money, or wouldn't push him, knowing he's in a tight place
                  himself."
               "Yes, father, I'll go; but I don't think there's any use in going; for he's had no
                  work for six months, and I heard yesterday that the sheriff had distrained his
                  goods to pay the doctor," said Nicholas.
               "Well, well, ride over and see. It's hard on me to lose; but Wilbur's an honest
                  man."
               "Why don't you do as others do?" interrupted Mrs. Flemming. "I don't see why you should be
                  distressed for another's shortcoming."
               "He will pay me if he can, mother," answered Flemming, gently. "He's an
                  industrious, honest man; but seasons of misfortune come to us all. He's out of
                  work, and has had a sick family for months. Yes, let us bear one another's
                  burdens, and be merciful—lest, should we be in the same case, the sting of remorse
                  be added to our sorrows."
               "I don't live in the clouds," she answered, "and the logic of common sense is all
                  that I understand. I don't think a man has any right to distress his own family
                  for the sake of a stranger. But I expect nothing but trouble now."
               "Let us be patient, mother; let us be patient," he replied, laying his broad hand
                  tenderly on her head, where he noticed for the first time among the black silken
                  hair many threads of white, which touched the man's heart, and he sighed, for he
                  understood their significance.
               "How can I be patient," she cried, "when I see all that has happened? I can't be
                  patient. You are all killing me. You have left me, as much as if you had gone away
                  to a far country; you are joined to idols, and have brought poverty and disgrace
                  upon your house, and ruined the prospects of your children."
               "According to the world, mother," he answered, in his low even tones, "according
                  to the world, mother, your reproaches are just, and well deserved; but according
                  to the divine law, things wear a different aspect. They who serve God must expect
                  tribulation, and bear it for His sake; they must love Him before and above all,
                  giving up their nearest and dearest—aye, all things—for the love of Him. We are in
                  His hands; and I am not afraid, for He is merciful as well as just."
               "You have a prospect of having your principles well tested," she replied bitterly;
                  then she went up stairs, and locking herself in her room, had a good cry, after
                  which she read "Fox's Book of Martyrs" until it got too dark to distinguish one
                  letter from another.
               Nicholas came back from the "Mill" farm empty-handed, saying that Wilbur would see
                  his father the next day if he was able; then he walked off in the twilight to keep
                  his tryst with Huldah under the old hemlocks that shadowed the mountain side a few
                  rods from her father's house; a spot which had been her favorite resort since she
                  was a little, toddling girl, and used to seek refuge there from the iron rule of
                  her Aunt Deborah, to nurse her kittens, or cry her fill over the long strips of
                  hemming and endless seams of felling given her for a task in punishment for
                  certain misdemeanors by that inexorable woman. The Deacon had gone up to "The Pines," on business, and Miss Debby was
                  taking tea with a neighbor; and Huldah could have received her lover at home
                  without fear of interruption, quite like the old time, when the "course of their
                  true love" did "run smooth;" but Nicholas had been forbidden the
                  house, and was too proud and honorable to enter it clandestinely. But it was
                  neutral ground up there under the old hemlocks, with God's sky bending over them
                  and the stars glistening through the dark foliage as if listening to the whispers
                  of the little mountian brook that fell over the rocks not far away and rippled
                  down through the ferns and mosses at their feet, and there they occasionally met
                  to talk over the situation and shake their fists in the face of the world, making
                  light of their difficulties—and, so long as they felt assured of each other's
                  constancy, hoping for the best. Huldah often declared she "rather liked it, as it
                  made her feel romantic, and reminded her of the heroines she had read of in the
                  old novels in the garret."
               But this evening, Nicholas, sobered by his father's troubles to an unusually
                  gravity, and still feeling the smart of the insult he had received from the School
                  Committee, told her everything, and explained the misfortunes impending over his
                  family; and the warm-hearted, generous girl was so shocked and grieved at it all,
                  that for the first time in her life she felt too benumbed to speak—but not too
                  much so to think. The forces of her physical life seemed to be absorbed by her
                  brain, giving it strange power, and clearer, keener perceptions; until, uneasy at
                  her strange silence, Nicholas, sensitive and unreasonable, began to think that she
                  shrunk from him and her engagement, now that poverty, disgrace and distress had
                  come upon them; and said some such thing to her, which roused her, and she
                  exclaimed:
               "Don't Nick. You are talking like a teapot. You know that you don't, in your
                  heart, believe a word that you are saying. I don't. But I tell you, Nick, I'm
                  sorry for your good, noble father, and the rest of them, and if I could get hold
                  of my money I'd make short metre of all this trouble. But I can't, you know; and I
                  want just to go home and think it all over, and see what can be done. Good-by,
                  Nicholas, you shall hear from me soon." And Huldah, with a strange seriousness on
                  her face, rose to go.
               "What nonsense, Huldah!" said Nicholas, impetuously. "You know that you can do
                  nothing and I won't have you asking favors for my family, or bringing yourself
                  into trouble on their account. Sit down."
               "Don't be uneasy, Nick, about my doings," she answered. 'Let me go home now; I
                  really must go and think all this over.
                  I want you to go away, right off."
               "Go, then," replied Nicholas, letting go her hand. "It is easy to say 'Go' to the
                  unfortunate;" and he was striding angrily away when Huldah said:
               "Nicholas Flemming! how dare you say such a thing to me who love you so?"
               "Forgive me, Huldah," he answered. "These troubles of ours are making me
                  suspicious and irrational; but where's the use of going away like this, when I see
                  you so seldom?"
               "Trust me, Nick—mind! no half trust—and let me go home," said the girl; "and
                  remember, if it should come into your thoughts at any time that I'm mean enough to
                  want to throw you over because you are poor, don't ever come near me again;
                  because if you have such thoughts of me now, you are wanting in confidence in me
                  and respect for me."
               "Very well," he answered. "I don't understand your strange humor, Huldah; but I'll
                  think over what you say, and see what I can make out of it. Depend upon one thing:
                  I shall need no second telling to 'go,' if I have reason to think you want to get
                  rid of me."
               "Don't be proud with me, Nick. I declare it's exactly like a scene between Don
                  Ferdinando and Donna Angeletta. How nonsensical for matter-of-fact lovers like you
                  and I!" said Huldah, with her old merry laugh. "Good night." And she offered him
                  her hand, which he grasped; and holding up her sweet, truthful face, she kissed
                  him; and before he could say another word she was half way down the narrow path,
                  lost to his sight amidst the shadows; and Nicholas went homewards, half sulkily,
                  yet not altogether miserable.
               The next day poor Wilbur came up to the Old Homestead, his trembling limbs
                  scarcely able to support him, looking so wan and heart-worn while he was telling
                  of his misfortunes and sorrows that Mrs. Flemming's heart was touched; and,
                  forgetting her own trials, she slipped out of the room and went up to the
                  lumber-room, where she opened a chest filled up to the top with the shrunken and
                  worn-out garments of the family; and selecting the best of them, such as she knew
                  would be useful to this stricken household, she made them into a compact bundle;
                  and when the man crept away, she, on the watch for him, slipped out of a side-door
                  and waylaid him among the trees, placing it in his hands, while she said: "Let me
                  know if I can do anything for you all. You know that the El——, my husband, I mean,
                  must be in a tight place to push you, and we are too poor to give much help to others; but the little we may be
                  able to do, you will be welcome to."
               "I know it, Miss' Flemming. I know it," answered the man, astonished and overcome,
                  while tears rolled over his thin cheeks; "and God bless you. The Elder couldn't
                  have done more for me if I'd been his brother; he's given me leave to stay on the
                  'Mill-Farm' 'till it's sold; and says not a stitch of my goods shall be touched
                  for the rent and if God spares me to get on my legs strong again, he shall have
                  every cent of it with interest. And I tell you what, ma'am, I wish other people's
                  religion 'round here would crop out accordin' to the same rule his'n does, much as
                  they all abuse it. Thank you, Miss' Flemming, for we've nothing but rags like
                  these," said Wilbur—taking hold of his tattered coat—"to cover us."
               "There's a bottle of Elderberry wine in the bundle, for your wife," said Mrs.
                  Flemming.
               "Lord bless you, ma'am, the Elder give me bread and wine too, seeing how weak I
                  am—and I owing him such heaps of money that I couldn't hold up my head, I was that
                  shamed; but he shan't lose a cent—not a cent—so help me God. Thank you ma'am, for
                  the wine for my wife."
               "I won't have you stand talking any longer now," answered Mrs. Flemming. "Good-by,
                  and let me know if I can do anything to help you." And she shook hands with him,
                  and watched him as he crept slowly, with the help of a stick, down the road. How
                  it would have sweetened the bitter waters of her soul to have felt that what she
                  had done she did for the sake and love of God; but she did not feel this; her act
                  was the impulse of simple humanity—good and beautiful in itself, but unsanctified
                  by that motive without which all nobility of act or will, all grandeur of purpose,
                  all heroic sacrifice, all generous giving and profuse alms "are as nothing." Mrs.
                  Flemming looked on "works" as superrogatory and unnecessary to salvation; but this
                  did not prevent her, as we have seen, from giving freely and from pure benevolence
                  the surplus means that she could not use herself. Not so with her husband and
                  daughters, to whose lives the love of Jesus had become the animating principle and
                  the sweet incentive to works of mercy, and gave them the blessed consciousness of
                  knowing that they ministered to Him under these poor disguises of suffering
                  humanity. Now that they knew the real condition of the poverty-stricken family at
                  "Mill Farm," they did not let their own misfortunes stand in the way of doing all
                  in their power to assist them. "Silver and gold had they none;" but what they had
                  they gave freely, and with words of good cheer. They gave the labor of their
                  hands; they watched and tended the helpless, bedridden wife, and gave tender care to the half-starved,
                  neglected little children. Denying themselves at their meals, and frequently going
                  without their supper, Hope and Eva managed to feed these famished beings who had
                  almost forgotten the taste of nourishing food. They saved, with zealous care, the
                  cold scraps, which in their days of plenty used to be thrown to the dogs, and
                  cooked them up, with onions, salt and thyme, into savory messes the very smell of
                  which would have excited the appetite of an epicure, and felt more than repaid
                  when they saw the relish with which they were devoured to the last morsel; and
                  occasionally they baked a large brown loaf for the hungry mouths. They sewed and
                  mended and patched the tattered garments, and cleansed the poor abode until
                  everything in it—from the floors, to the shelves with their scanty assortment of
                  cracked delf—shone again and still found time, now and then, to sit beside Mrs.
                  Wilbur and read some of the soul-touching devotions for the sick from the Catholic
                  prayer-book Patrick McCue had sent them; from which the afflicted woman seemed to
                  derive much comfort.
               The time devoted by Hope and Eva to these works of mercy was taken—not from their
                  daily home duties, Mrs. Flemming would have objected to that—but from their sleep,
                  their spare moments when they might have read or rested, and from their long,
                  pleasant walks among the romantic scenery around; and they ere long found reward
                  for their self-denial in seeing the pale cheeks of the Wilburs filling out, and
                  strength returning to their wasted limbs. This, added to the sweet consciousness
                  of doing good, gave them a new sense of happiness such as they had never imagined
                  or experienced before. As to who used to fetch water enough from the far spring to
                  last the poor family all through the succeeding day, chop their wood and pile it
                  up at the door, and feed and milk the cow, the girls did not know, and did not
                  like to ask; they were sure Wilbur didn't do these chores; he wasn't strong
                  enough; and they very naturally suspected their father, who used to disappear
                  every evening about dusk, for an hour or two, and always come in with such a smile
                  of content on his countenance that it seemed to brighten up everything around him.
                  The gratitude and thanks of the people at "Mill Farm" were almost oppressive;
                  indeed, as Eva said, "they made her feel ashamed of the poor little she had done;"
                  but we shall see by-and-by what a queer turn their gratitude took, thereby giving
                  the good Flemmings a new experience of life, and affording Mrs. Flemming an
                  opportunity to say with unction "it is just what I expected." But we must not
                  anticipate.
               
               One day Hope and Eva were busy over a piece of sewing in the old sitting, or
                  "living room," as New-Englanders say. The outlook of the family affairs was
                  gloomy, and ruin seemed inevitable. They were very quiet and thoughtful while the
                  golden September sun shone through the vines over the windows, and fell glittering
                  and quivering among the old Dutch silver in the beaufèt A bright little fire
                  crackled on the tiled hearth, for there had been frost already. Mrs. Flemming was
                  in the adjoining room—seated on the very lounge that Patrick McCue was laid on the
                  night he was brought in out of the storm—knitting as if for life, a stitch and a
                  tear very often together, and enough of sorrowful and bitter thoughts under every
                  loop to give whoever wore the stocking the cramp all their days. Suddenly Wolfert
                  Flemming came in, pranked off in his best suit of clothes, clean linen, gold
                  studs, freshly shaved and brushed.
               "Why—father!" exclaimed Eva, as she looked up.
               "Father! are you going anywhere?" asked Hope, with a sudden fear. She thought
                  perhaps his troubles had unsettled his mind.
               "No, daughter. I am going to be very happy at home to-day!" he answered, with his
                  old pleasant smile.
               "You have heard good news?" said Hope, looking up eagerly.
               "In one sense, yes; in another, no, he replied.
               "What is it that makes you look so strangely happy, father?" asked Eva.
               "Why, I have just found out something. You have heard me say, since our
                  conversion, that in the dark years of the past my soul used to be moved, strangely
                  moved, whenever in the Old Testament or the New I came across any prophecy or
                  passage alluding to the Blessed Mother of Jesus. I spoke of it to no one then, for
                  I feared it was wrong; but I could not stifle the impression; and at last in my
                  heart of hearts I felt a deep Catholic reverence for her, without knowing what it
                  meant or being able to define its significance. Since I have been brought to a
                  knowledge of the True Faith, it is all plain, consoling, and blessed, and I have
                  come to believe that SHE was caring for my soul in those days and leading me
                  through the darkness to HER SON. And now, what do you think? This, you know, is my
                  birthday—the 8TH OF SEPTEMBER; and I only this morning discovered, in looking over
                  the calendar, that it is also the BIRTHDAY OF MARY—and I am going to hold high
                  festival in her honor to-day; and every birthday of my life, henceforth, I shall
                  devote especially to Her, my patroness and Queen!*
                  Put aside your sewing, daughters, and all thoughts of
                     
                     *Which he did, literally.
                   worldly care; go out and gather flowers, and bring
                  them up to old Massisquoi's room; and after we have decorated the shrine of Our
                  Lady, and lighted the wax candle you made, Eva, in her honor, we will say the
                  Litany and read the Office of the Rosary together.
               "Oh, father, father!" exclaimed Eva, unable to restrain her emotion, as she ran
                  and threw her arms about his neck and blessed him, "how happy it makes me to hear
                  this! I congratulate you, dearest father, and I am sure that Our dear Lady will
                  deliver you temporally, as she has led you spiritually."
               "Dear father!" said Hope, kissing his broad brown hand, and folding it in both of
                  hers to her breast, "I congratulate you too, and pray that the Blessed Mother may
                  obtain for you many returns of this happy day."
               "And heaven at last—"added Flemming, his whole countenance beaming with
                  happiness.
               "And heaven, at last," repeated Hope in sweet solemn tones. Then he went away up
                  into old Massisquoi's room, while the girls set to work to gather some rich
                  autumnal roses and scarlet blooms for the shrine of the Virgin.
               As to Mrs. Flemming, she had dropped her knitting, and sat motionless, listening
                  in a sort of dumb amaze, hearing distinctly every word uttered by her husband and
                  daughters, unseen by them, until they went out; then the sudden silence seemed to
                  rouse her, and she exclaimed: "They are all crazy together, to be going on with
                  such nonsense when ruin is staring us in the face. Festival! I'd like to know
                  where the festive part comes in?"
               Poor Mrs. Flemming could not understand where the "festive part came in," because
                  she still dwelt in the material darkness of her cold belief, fettered by human
                  reason and full of spiritual pride, which blinded her so that she could not
                  distinguish the deep spirituality of the Faith professed by her family. She stood
                  on the borders of the "new earth and new heaven" they had found, but failed to see
                  the glories thereof; her trials had blotted and blurred her religious perceptions;
                  and, smarting under the cross, she was sometimes almost ready to "curse God and
                  die." Above all did these usages of Catholic devotion, which now beset her on
                  every hand, irritate and annoy her; for they were to her feet a "stumbling-block,
                  and to her mind foolishness." But this could not cloud the happiness of the group
                  kneeling so devoutly at the foot of MARY in the little room up stairs, calling in
                  the simplicity of their faith on the "Star of Jacob," the "Virgin of Virgins," the
                  "Refuge of sinners," to aid them and obtain from HER divine SON the conversion of
                  their mother and brothers.
               
               Wolfert Flemming said that night that he was just one year old, and this was his
                  first birthday, one which he should remember in Eternity.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               MRS. FLEMMING IS GLAD OF SOMETHING AT LAST.
               In the meanwhile Huldah Sneathen began to exhibit a change which not only kept
                  Nicholas in a fever, but attracted the serious attention of her father and aunt.
                  She grew snappish and absent-minded, reversing the order of things, as is the way
                  with absent-minded people, and very often made them all uncomfortable by putting
                  salt into things that required sugar, and sugaring things that should have been
                  salted; sometimes she was very gay, at others, very silent; and once she actually
                  patched the knee of her father's black pantaloons with yellow cloth, which he did
                  not discover until he had got into Plymouth the next morning—having dressed by
                  candle-light—when his attention was called to the fact by the hootings and
                  laughter of the gamins of that godly town.
                  Huldah laughed when her father scolded her about it, and said she was sorry, then
                  asked him if he had a letter for her, which he shortly answered in the negative.
                  Then Huldah, who had all her life been blessed with a good, wholesome appetite,
                  and dearly loved the flesh-pots, began to grow dainty about her eating, and did
                  very little more than peck at her food when she sat down to the table, and of
                  course began to get pale and thin; and her aunt told the Deacon in confidence that
                  she had heard her crying in the night, and walking about the floor when she should
                  have been in bed asleep. He was puzzled and uneasy, for he remembered that
                  Huldah's mother had gone off with a strange, slow sort of complaint, that nobody
                  thought was anything worse than indolence, until one day she laid her poor head
                  quietly back in her chair and died.
               "She's fretting—that's all; fretting about Nick Flemming," said the Deacon,
                  rubbing his head violently with his yellow silk handkerchief.
               "La suz!" exclaimed Miss Debby, "I'd like to know neow! But 'taint that, Deacon;
                  for she sees Nick Flemming every day or so. She's chipper enough as fur as that
                  goes. She's going to turn Papist—that's what it is."
               "Don't be a fool, Deborah! It's no such nonsense as that. It's Nicholas, I tell
                  you; and I won't have her worrit into getting sick," answered the Deacon, growing
                  purple in the face.
               "Lands sakes! Deacon——," began the spinster.
               
               "I don't want to see my child's property going back to them ungodly people—her
                  mother's relations. They're hungering and thirsting for it—them Barkers are. So I
                  won't have her worrit, and you may let Nick Flemming know that he can come
                  whenever he wants to," answered the Deacon, looking benign.
               "Suz!" exclaimed Miss Debby, with an extra sniff; "I forgot all about that Barker
                  will; why, if Huldy was to die off to-day, like her poor mother did, all the
                  property would go right straight to the Barkers; and you couldn't afford that.
                  Yes, I guess mebbe that Nick Flemming has got some hand in it, and he'd better
                  come to chirk her up."
               So Nicholas was duly notified that he could visit the house again; but Nicholas
                  had been snubbed two or three times by Huldah since the evening they met under the
                  hemlock trees, when she sent him away and had behaved altogether so strangely that
                  his pride was up, and he stood off.
               So, whatever was the matter with Huldah, she kept it to herself in a little "ring
                  of fire" that scorched her sometimes until she was half beside herself; but "she
                  wouldn't tell—no, not if it killed her"—she declared to herself over and over
                  again. Nick's coldness was almost too much for her; for she "knew that he was
                  thinking meanly of her, misconstruing and misunderstanding her; but he was the
                  very last one she could tell her trouble to; and if he chose to mount his high
                  horse and go putting on airs to her; why, let him do so to the end of the
                  chapter;" then Huldah had a good cry to herself, which, when it was over, seemed
                  to do her good, for she bounced up, began to brush her curls vigorously, soused
                  her face in a basin of cold water, and dressed herself prettily in a new maroon
                  tabinet which she had bought from a peddler with her dairy-money, and put a frill
                  of rich yellow lace around her throat and fastened it with a gay ribbon bow, then
                  stuck another among her curls, singing snatches of song, and saying now and then:
                  "It will come to-morrow. I am sure it will. I shall hear from him to-morrow; then
                  I shall be so happy! But maybe Nick will be here this evening. I don't care,
                  though, if he don't." Her hope that Nicholas Flemming would come, was the secret
                  of her grande toilette, but who was it she
                  expected to hear from? Had the sly puss got another lover?
               But Nicholas did not come. He had gone down to Holderness and Plymouth with a
                  great wagon-load of farm and dairy produce, and his mother's beautiful carpet,
                  just finished and taken out of the loom the day before, to sell. She counted on
                  getting a good round sum for it, for it was almost as pretty as a store carpet;
                  then there was a good lot of wool—the wool from their sheep was always considered the finest and whitest in
                  the country—and she had taken uncommon pains in curing it for market; besides
                  this, were two barrels of maple syrup, as clear as amber, and a keg of elderberry
                  wine, several years old, equal to any foreign wines in the land. And the thrifty
                  little woman watched her wheeled argosy until it was out of sight, hoping for
                  quick sales and high prices; then went back to her sad thoughts and her
                  spinning-wheel, for she was busy making her fine yarn, almost as fine as the yarn
                  brought from Shetland, for which she always got a high price.
               Everything was going on as usual in the Old Homestead and around it. The golden
                  sun of September shone as brightly as ever on the wide-spreading beeches around
                  it; the windows glittered like diamonds as its rays darted down through the
                  dappled foliage upon the small clear panes, and brought out with rare bright
                  touches the patches of moss and lichen upon the old black roof. There, between the
                  lichen-covered elms that bordered the broad gravelled walk running through the
                  middle of their garden and the field beyond, shone a glimpse of the lake, and one
                  of its gem-like islands; farther, in the distance, the Belknap Mountains lay like
                  a purple wave against the sky; nearer still arose Ossipee and the haughty
                  Chocorua, with stripes of crimson breaking the dark monotony of the summer foliage
                  upon their slopes,—with here and there, as if Indian warriors were in ambush upon
                  their heights, flashes of orange and scarlet, like flitting plumes. All around,
                  the ledges and boulders of the solemn picturesque hills stood out bravely in blue
                  and purple, warmed and glorified by clusters of yellow and crimson sumachs that
                  waved their palm-like leaves gaily in the sun. Down along the edges of the
                  rivulets, pink and purple blossoms lifted their heads among the grass; and the
                  sweetbriar clinging about everything was full of fragrance and thickly hung with
                  scarlet berries, while blue and white asters dappled the meadow lands, and the
                  great ferns began to wear a crimson tinge as they waved in the low lush dells
                  watered by sly little brooks that only whispered in soft shy whispers as they
                  crept along through the mosses towards the beautiful lake. Nothing was changed
                  outwardly. The old house nestled there amidst all the early autumnal beauty,
                  looking as it did a century before,—looking as it did when the oldest man and
                  woman living in those parts first remembered it; looking as it did one short year
                  before, when the very name of Flemming was a power in the land, and every one in
                  the little world around spoke of its inmates and pointed it out with pride. But we
                  know what a change had come upon them, and why. The Flemmings had found out that the "Kingdom of Heaven is not of
                  this world; and, knowing this, had entered into its portals, willing to be
                  stripped of all things rather than relinquish the right to abide there. They had
                  taken up the cross, and in its strength they were ready to make every sacrifice
                  for the eternal good they had found. I think you know all this, but it is so good
                  a thing that it bears repetition.
               One day Wolfert Flemming came home from a journey he had taken to see a man who
                  had written to him about the purchase of "Mill Farm;"—came home disappointed, for
                  the man had changed his mind and bought other property. After caring for his tired
                  horse—for he had a tender heart for the dumb creatures that served him—he entered
                  his house and experienced a sort of relief when he found the old sitting-room
                  empty; he felt for a moment that it would be hard to meet his wife's anxious,
                  eager eyes, and he having nothing better to tell her than he had. Indeed there
                  seemed to be no one in the house—everything was so silent; and he thought it would
                  be a good opportunity for him to spend a half hour in "Eva's sanctuary," as Hope
                  called it, to confide his thoughts and beg the assistance of the "Help of
                  Christians."
               Laying his hat down in the passage, he wiped the perspiration from his forehead
                  and opened the door. Eva was there, kneeling, with eyes closed
                  and lips softly uttering the beautiful devotion of the Rosary as she slipped bead
                  after bead through her fingers. The last crimson rays of the setting sun shone
                  through the window upon the white statue of MARY and her SON, clothing them as
                  with a garment, and throwing out in strong relief the crucifix at their feet. Eva
                  turned at the sound of her father's entrance, and, greeting him with a sweet smile
                  of welcome, moved a little to make room for him as he knelt beside her. Here, in
                  this spot consecrated by prayer to the Mother of God, the clamor of worldly cares
                  and the angry mutterings of the storm that threatened him with shipwreck and ruin
                  ebbed away from the man's weary heart; they could come "only so far;" and as a
                  sweet calm settled on his soul, he realized the full significance of that peace
                  which "the world cannot give, nor take away;" and grew strong. Compared with this,
                  the affairs of this life sunk into nothingness; and he realized, perhaps more than
                  he had yet done, the dual struggle and warfare of his being—the struggle of nature
                  for perishable goods, the warfare of his soul for an immortal heritage; and he
                  thought—full of faith—"Be not disquieted, Oh my soul! for the Lord is thy helper
                  in the day of trouble. His holy will be done." He expected no miracle to be
                  wrought for his deliverance from his present strait: he simply referred all things
                  to the divine will, while doing all
                  that justice to his family demanded and human prudence required—assured in the
                  depths of his soul that if the worst that he dreaded should happen, the blow would
                  be sanctified to the good of him and his household through Him who had suffered
                  all things for them. Thus reposing on the will of God, without a single visionary
                  thought or purpose, he felt that he could bear with courage whatever befell; what
                  could he not bear, sustained by the strength of his newly-found Faith
                  and the peace born of it? He felt calmed, refreshed and thankful.
               Their devotions over, Eva said: "I am glad you are back, father. I hope you have
                  had good success?"
               "No," he answered, as he drew a chair to the window and sat down; "Deacon Flynt
                  had already bought a place."
               "I am sorry, father, but I can't despond. I have been praying constantly to our
                  Blessed Mother to help you, and somehow I feel that she will not refuse me," said
                  Eva, as she brought a low bench and sat beside him.
               "I hope so, daughter; I hope so. I have great faith in her intercession. How
                  strange!—how strange!" he added.
               "What is strange, father?"
               "That having studied the Scriptures from my youth up, I should have remained blind
                  so long to the claims of Christ's holy Mother;" he answered. "It is true that I
                  always felt a certain veneration for her above the other holy women of the Bible;
                  but it is only since I have become in faith a Catholic, and have read the belief
                  of the Church concerning her, that I understand all the mysterious allusions to
                  her, and the wonderful and indissoluble connection that there is between her and
                  our redemption. Men may try to argue it away, to preach and write it down, to
                  ignore it with scorn, and inveigh against it with contempt; but the fact remains:
                  and, if they are Christians, they half reject Christ if they reject and throw
                  discredit on His Mother!"
               "Father, do you know that I sometimes think that the very personality of Christ
                  would have faded into a myth if the Catholic Church had not preserved and
                  cherished through past ages this tender memory and holy devotion to His holy
                  Mother. They would have denied the Incarnation and denied His Humanity—having lost
                  sight of her."
               "It might have been so; yes, it seems possible. I never thought of that before;"
                  answered her father, looking far away into the glowing depths of light now softly
                  fading in the west.
               "And I can't tell you, father, how much nearer and more real the Saviour became to me
                  when I learned to know His holy Mother," said Eva, in low fervid tones.
               "And no wonder," he replied; "for in thinking of the Holy Motherhood, who can
                  forget the Divine Humanity? In contemplating Him, is it possible to divest the
                  mind of her who was chosen by almighty God from His whole creation to be the
                  Mother of His Son? Full of grace, she was both prophet and apostle, in whom met
                  the Old Law and the New, who fulfilled prophecy and interpreted the Scriptures.
                  From her lips man learned the wonderful story of the Incarnation, which was
                  confirmed by angel messengers and sealed by the birth of her Divine Son. Oh, my
                  heart gets very full when I think and talk of Our Lady."
               "Talk on, dear father," said Eva, folding her hands together on her knees, while
                  her countenance glowed with devotion; "talk on; it does me good."
               "It does me good too, daughter, to think and talk of this Mother of the
                  Redemption. Eve was the mother of creatures, Mary of souls. Both were created
                  without sin: Eve fell, entailing sin and eternal death on her offspring; Mary
                  brought life to hers, by giving birth to the Saviour who redeemed them, and
                  suffering with Him all the penalties of guilt, that the guilty might be pardoned.
                  Oh, it is wonderful! From the time she was promised ised to our first parents, to
                  the hour when she gave birth to her Divine Son, the Scriptures are full of her.
                  Everything foreshadowed her. The temple, built of the purest and most precious
                  materials; the ark of the covenant; made of costly and indestructible wood, which
                  none but priestly hands might touch and live, typified her who was to bear in her
                  sacred womb the Holy One. The women Sara, Rebecca, Esther, Deborah, Judith, Ruth,
                  Jael, Lea Anna, Abigail, Noemi, Rachael and the Sunamite woman, were imperfect
                  types of her who, as 'fair as the moon, bright as the sun, and terrible as an army
                  in array,' was to crush the serpent's head. She is the burning bush of Moses which
                  was yet unconsumed; she is the 'garden enclosed,' the new Eden into which nothing
                  defiled could enter or taint; she is the 'sealed fountain' the waters of which
                  nothing can pollute; she is the 'eastern gate' through which the true Light
                  enters; she is the 'brilliant dawn' which precedes the rising Sun; she is the
                  rainbow, the true sign of the new Covenant and man's reconciliation with the Most
                  High; she is the sacerdotal rod of Aaron which blossomed in the tabernacle; she is
                  the fleece of Gideon, moistened with heavy dews when all else remained dry and
                  arid around it; she is the dove always spotless, the lily ever pure, the rose ever
                  fresh and without thorns. And what sweet and august epithets are bestowed on her by the Book of books: 'Queen,'
                  'tabernacle of the Most High,' 'house of God,' 'blessed land of the Lord,' 'star
                  of Jacob,' 'strong woman,' 'the most beautiful among women,' 'the most happy
                  mother of beautiful love, of faith, of wisdom, of holy hope, and full of grace.'
                  She is compared in the holy pages to the pavilion of cedar, to the fount in the
                  garden, to the light of the morning, to the source of the waters of life which
                  flows from Libanus, to the azure of the heavens, to the cypress of Zion, to
                  odorous and precious perfume, to storax, to spikenard, to galbanum! As the heavens
                  are filled with stars, so are the Scriptures gemmed with the glories of Mary
                  brightening up that long night of gloom from the fall to the Birth of the Messiah!
                  I had read over and over again all these names and titles without knowing to whom
                  they applied until the scales fell from my eyes and I beheld her crowned with them
                  as with a precious diadem before which the lustre of all other crowns is eclipsed!
                  All the inspired writers delighted to speak of her. Isaias exclaims: 'Behold! a
                  Virgin shall conceive and bring forth a Son whose name shall be Emmanuel.' In
                  another place he says: 'And there shall come forth a rod out of the root of Jesse,
                  and a flower shall rise up out of his root.' Jeremias declares: 'The Lord hath
                  created a new thing on earth, a woman shall compass a man.' And here," said
                  Wolfert Flemming, taking a small book from his breast and holding it close to
                  catch the light, now almost faded into night, "is what Tertullian, St. Jerome, and
                  St. Bernard, interpreting these words, exclaim: 'This woman is Mary! The root of
                  Jesse signifies the race of David; the scion of this root is the Virgin of Israel;
                  and the flower born of this scion is Jesus Christ, the Son of Mary. Most truly,'"
                  he went on reading, in almost exultant tones, "'a creature promised by God Himself
                  to our first parents at the beginning of the world; a creature who was to have
                  part in the designs of the Most High for the salvation of the world; a creature
                  prefigured by so many mysterious types, represented by so many illustrious women;
                  a creature called by such beautiful names, and on whom was bestowed such gracious
                  and honorable titles, a creature predicted and announced by the prophets, could
                  not be an ordinary being. She must have had prerogatives above those of common
                  humanity! No! there is nothing in all this to surprise us, for is not MARY the
                  marvel of marvels, an abyss of miracles; the greatest wonder the heavens or the
                  earth ever beheld? From these considerations flowed the belief that she was, by
                  the power of the Most High, conceived without sin; it is from this assemblage of
                  wonders that the faith of all Christian ages in it was derived —a faith which is in itself one of the strongest
                  proofs of the fact.'"
               "I believe it, father. How could I doubt it? I could not believe that Eve, who was
                  to be the mother of mankind, was created without sin, and that Mary, who was to be
                  the Mother of Jesus Christ our Saviour, was not. Oh, I am sorry it is growing so
                  dark! This has been so lovely, dear father!" exclaimed Eva. Just then there came a
                  sound from the outside of the door, like a smothered sob, and there was a rustle
                  of garments retreating down the long dark passage; and when Eva went out she could
                  discover nothing, and thought it might have been the rustling of the branches of
                  the huge old trees against the windows—for she remembered how often she had heard
                  that, and what an eerie sound they made, scraping and tapping on the glass.
               "I forgot to tell you, father," she said, as they walked together along the
                  passage, "that poor Ruby is quite ill. He fainted dead away this morning."
               "My poor lad! Where is he; I'll go straight to him," he answered.
               There was no light in the boy's room. He saw the dim outline of his wife, standing
                  against the window, looking drearily out on the gathering shadows—and he spoke
                  cheerily, saying:
               "You see I am back, mother. How is the lad."
               "He's a little weak, that's all," she replied without turning her head. She would
                  never admit that it was anything but weakness when Reuben had one of his attacks.
                  "He has not been out to exercise in the open air for several days, but has been
                  moping around, doing nothing, and it don't agree with him."
               Wolfert Flemming groped his way to the bed, and stooping down to kiss the boy
                  found that his face was drenched with tears; then he gathered him up in his strong
                  arms and held the beautiful head, with its golden tangles of hair, upon his
                  breast, and leaned his cheek upon it as tenderly as a woman. Mrs. Flemming was
                  watching; accustomed to the gloom of the room, she saw it all, and her eyes
                  overflowed with tears; she longed to go and lay her head beside Reuben, on her
                  husband's shoulder; her heart was full almost to bursting with tenderness and
                  pity; but her Puritan pride held her back silent and motionless.
               "Father," whispered Reuben, "I'll be a man yet!"
               "Get well, my lad; get well and strong again; that is all I ask," answered his
                  father. "I'll sit here, mother, if you wish to go down."
               "Yes, I have something to attend to. But tell me, before I go, if you made any
                  bargain with Deacon Flynt about the farm?" she said, turning to go.
               
               "None, I am sorry to say!" he replied, "He had bought one nearer home."
               "I thought nothing would come of it," she said with a sigh
               "I shall be well enough to churn for you, 'little mammy,' in the morning," said
                  Reuben, while he folded his father's great hand close to his breast.
               "I hope so, Ruby. I'm sure I shall be glad to have you notwithstanding you make
                  'ducks and drakes' of my cream," she replied as she left the room.
               "It is so good to be resting here on your breast," said Reuben. "Did you bring me
                  a letter, father?"
               "No, my lad; do you expect a letter?"
               "Yes, sir; and I think I shall be better when it comes."
               "Whom do you expect a letter from?"
               "I would rather not tell you now, sir. I will show it to you when it comes."
               "Very well. It can be nothing wrong, if you are willing that I should see it."
               "No, father, I don't think it is wrong, what I have been doing. Maybe it is
                  foolish," answered Reuben thoughtfully.
               "I guess this letter will explain some of your little mysteries, my lad?"
               "Yes, sir—all of them. Oh, I wish it would come! I do wish it would come! Father,
                  if that letter comes, and is what I expect, I shall be as well and chipper as a
                  robin."
               "Perhaps it may come to-morrow. Always hope for the best."
               "I never hope for anything else, father. Why, I feel better already, just thinking
                  about it. These sugs that I have are nothing. I just run down like a Connecticut
                  clock, and get wound up again, ready for anything; and it has done me lots of good
                  to see you." And Reuben put his arms about his father's neck, and, clinging close
                  to him, fell into a deep refreshing sleep, with a pleasant smile parting his lips.
                  Wolfert Flemming laid him gently down upon the pillows, shaded the candle—which
                  some one had come in and lit—and stood looking down at the rarely chiselled
                  features of this the Benjamin of his flock; at the wild curling hair that shone
                  like a golden aureole around his forehead, and at the long tapering hand, so small
                  and shapely, for all the world like the hands of his ancestress, Lady Pendarvis:
                  then, laying his own lightly upon his head, blessed him from the depths of his
                  heart, and went down stairs to join his family at tea.
               The next afternoon Hope and Eva thought they would go down to "Mill Farm," to find
                  out how the Wilburs were getting on. They had not been there for several
                  days—there being no need—for Wilbur had
                  got work, and his wife was up and about again, thanks to their assistance and
                  help. But they did not like to give the poor family up altogether; so, putting a
                  fresh loaf of brown bread from the morning baking, some doughnuts and a pound of
                  sweet butter into a basket, they started on their errand of Christian kindness.
                  But when they got in sight of the house, they saw to their amazement that all the
                  doors and windows were closed, and no sign of life about it.
               "What in the world can be the matter?" exclaimed Eva.
               "It looks as if they had flitted;" said Hope, laughing; "only I am sure they would
                  not do such a thing without letting us know."
               "No, I guess not. They are too grateful for the little we have done for them to
                  behave like that."
               "Well now, Eva, I don't think it is a very 'little' that
                  we have done. It was the best we could do, and it proved 'much' for them, poor
                  souls; and if they have gone off—"said Hope, whose eyes began to sparkle.
               "Why, even the cow's gone!" exclaimed Eva.
               Just then they heard a rustling in the myrtle bushes near them, and looking round
                  they saw little Ned Wilbur's white head sticking up from among the purple furze
                  that grew knee-high there-abouts.
               "Why, Neddy, is that you?" said Hope, laughing.
               "Yes'm; it be
               "How are all your folks to-day?"
               "They's right well. 'm."
               "Here's a doughnut for you, Neddy." The boy sprang out from his covert, and
                  snatching the doughnut from her hand, began to eat, winking his eyes and smacking
                  his lips with delight, while his wild little heart grew mellow with the flavor of
                  the delicious morsel. The sisters laughed, and Eva said: "Neddy, what in the world
                  are you all shut up so tight down there for?"
               "I'm 'fraid to tell!" he replied, munching.
               "Tell me this minute, Ned, and I'll give you another doughnut," said Hope. The
                  bait was too inviting, and Neddy began to nibble.
               "Daddy shut the house up to keep the Papishers out. Father Ray bid him to. Daddy's
                  goin' away—he is—and all of us," said Neddy with his glistening eyes fixed on the
                  doughnut in Hope's hand.
               "For what? Where ever in the world are you all going?"
               "Why, you see, 'm, Father Ray got my daddy some work, and he told him if he didn't
                  stop lettin' you all come round us he'd have it tuk away from him and have us all
                  sent to jail for beggars. I 'clare he did, 'm; so mammy toult me to tell you, when I see you, please not to come no
                  more. Gimme my doughnut now!"
               "I won't give you a crumb of it until you go and ask your mother if we may come
                  in; I want to see her," said Hope.
               "I'll go, 'm," answered Neddy, upon whose palate lingered enough of the delicious
                  taste of the doughnut to make him ravenous for more. He crept into the house,
                  through some loophole Hope and Eva could not discover, and presently they heard
                  alternate whacks and yells sounding from within, and while they were wondering
                  what the hubbub meant, Neddy came rushing towards them rubbing his shoulders and
                  legs, his face looking like a harlequin's, it was so besmirched with dirt and
                  tears—the redness of his freckled skin showing in bars across his cheeks—while he
                  screamed between his sobs: "Go 'way; mammy says go 'long away. She don't want you
                  to come anighst her. Father Ray's going to send us to school, and give us a house
                  to live in; an' it'll ruin us, mammy says, if you don't go right away. Now gimme
                  my doughnut."
               "Well—I declare!" exclaimed Hope. "Eva, I have good mind to march right in and
                  give that ungrateful woman a blowing-up."
               "No, don't," answered Eva; "don't. It's all the same, darling, if you will only
                  remember for whose dear sake we helped them."
               "After our self-denial, and working for them like negroes! I declare I can't stand
                  it—I must go and tell her what I think of it!"
               "And lose the merit of your good works, and the sweet approval of Him for whose
                  sake you worked!" remonstrated Eva. "Come! let us go back."
               "No. I intend to whip Neddy. Let him suffer vicariously for his ungrateful
                  family," answered Hope grasping Neddy's ragged sleeve.
               "No! no!—dont'ee, dont'ee—Miss Hope. I smarts all over now, mammy dinged at me
                  so," cried the boy, dancing with fright.
               "I have a mind to," said Hope, laughing. "Here—here's your doughnut, Neddy, and go
                  take this loaf of bread and pot of fresh butter to your mammy, and tell her not to
                  put them on her head, there might be coals of fire in them. Tell her that's the
                  way that Papishers punish their enemies. Clear out with you." The
                  urchin needed no second bidding, but scampered off as fast as his legs could carry
                  him.
               "It's as funny as exasperating!" exclaimed Hope.
               "I'm glad we had a chance to help them in their need," said Eva.
               
               "I suppose I ought to be, too, but I really am not. I should like to shake them
                  all! such fanaticism! Why, they would have starved, if it had not been for the
                  help they got. Why didn't Parson Ray help them then? It is true that the ways of
                  men are past finding out."
               "You don't mean half that you say, darling?"
               "Yes, I do; every word."
               "What did you send those things for then? Ah, I've caught you there!"
               "No, you haven't. I sent them just for the satisfaction of sending that message
                  about the coals of fire with them. The ungrateful creatures!" replied Hope.
               Then they turned and walked away, strolling on until they reached the lake shore,
                  where they sat down to watch the lights and shadows ever flitting from the clouds
                  above over the summer ripples as they flowed around the fair islands and laved the
                  giant feet of the Ossipee. While they sat there talking, and drinking in the
                  loveliness of the scene, their attention was attracted by a gentleman evidently a
                  stranger in the neighborhood, who had a small pouch hung over his shoulder which
                  they thought at the first glimpse was a bird-bag; but as he had no gun, only a
                  queerly constructed hammer in his hand, with which he went about cracking pieces
                  of rock off the boulders that projected here and there from the earth, they took
                  it for granted that he was no hunter; but what he was so idly busy about, they
                  could not imagine, and thought he might be just a little flighty. This idea and
                  the lengthening shadows together, warned them that it was time to turn their faces
                  homeward.
               It was almost dark when they got back, and their father and mother—and Reuben, who
                  was better—were about sitting down to tea. Hope gave a spirited account of the
                  Mill Farm adventure, at which Reuben laughed, and his father with a grave smile
                  said:
               "It will always be a pleasant thought, daughters, that we were able to help them a
                  little in their extreme want. I am glad Wilbur has found work."
               "It is nothing more than I expected," said Mrs. Flemming, drily, while her
                  handsome eyes snapped sparkles of their old fires.
               "Well! well! it was only human nature for them to follow their worldly interests,
                  having no higher aim, and knowing nothing better," said Wolfert Flemming. "The
                  fanaticism of their friends and advisers is more to be deplored than the little
                  mortification it may occasion us to feel."
               "I'd like to know why Father Ray did not do something for them when they were sick
                  and starving; and so I shall tell him," said Mrs. Flemming.
               
               "Let it rest, mother; discussion will do no good, and may provoke angry feelings,"
                  said her husband.
               "I can't help it. I shall speak my mind," she answered.
               "Hark!" exclaimed Reuben. "I think I hear the wagon bells! Yes! yes! I know the
                  sound of the bells! Just listen, all of you!"
               And, listening, true enough they heard the musical jingle of the horses' bells
                  coming nearer and nearer, then uprose a cheery halloo, and they knew that Nicholas
                  was almost there. Wolfert Flemming arose from the table and went out, followed by
                  Reuben, to meet him, and the little mother bestirred herself to get ready a
                  substantial supper for the hungry traveller, well knowing that Nick always came
                  home from a journey with the appetite of a kite—wondering all the while if he had
                  returned with an empty wagon and a full wallet—half fearing (she was always
                  expecting the worst now) that he had found a poor market for his wares and brought
                  them back. Before long he came in, hugged and blessed her as he always did, shook
                  hands and kissed his sisters, then sat down to his supper, saying: "I'm awfully
                  hungry. Mother, I'll tell you all about business presently. It's all right, you
                  know. Hope, have you seen Huldah since I went away?"
               "Yes, she was here yesterday. You know she is to come whenever she pleases now,
                  and you are to go there as you used to," answered Hope.
               "Whew" said Nicholas, cutting into a cranberry pie, "I don't know when I shall go,
                  though! I don't like being played fast-and-loose with."
               "Pshaw, Nick! where's the use in minding Deacon Sneathen?" said Hope.
               "I don't," answered Nick, while he thought of Huldah and her secret; "I don't mind
                  him any more than I do an old turkey-cock."
               "Then don't hurt Huldah's feelings by not going."
               Reuben and his father now came in and drew up around the table with the rest.
               "I was glad to find that wagon empty, Nick," said his father.
               "Yes, sir! I had splendid luck; sold everything I took along, and could have sold
                  more if I had had it. Mother, Deacon Green, at Plymouth, bought your carpet; and
                  what do you think he said?"
               "What?" inquired Mrs. Flemming sharply. "There's nothing the matter with the
                  carpet; there's not an uneven thread in it."
               "He said he'd buy the carpet, not only because it was a very handsome one and a
                  good strong piece of work, but because it was made by one of the best
                  women——".
               
               "Hush, Nick!" said Mrs. Flemming, "I don't want to hear what the Deacon said. What
                  did he give for it?"
               "One of the best women," continued Nick, heedless of the interruption, "one of the
                  best mothers, and one of the best wives in the world."
               "That is so; that is all true," they all exclaimed, delighted to hear their
                  mother's praises from so good and honorable a man as Deacon Green, while her
                  husband looked at her with a flush of pleasure on his calm handsome face. Then
                  Nick added, as he took out his wallet and handed it to her, "He paid cash for it,
                  mother; it's all there with the rest; about two hundred dollars in all. The Deacon
                  paid one dollar a yard for the carpet."
               "Hand it over to your father, Nicholas," said Mrs. Flemming, a bright light in her
                  eyes and a flush upon her cheeks. "It is his."
               "Keep it, mother, until the time comes to use it," said Wolfert Flemming, lifting
                  his heavy brows and looking at her with a heavenly tenderness in his clear
                  truthful eyes—for the man's heart was profoundly touched.
               "Very well," she answered, coldly.
               Then they laughed and talked together, Nicholas telling them all that he had seen
                  in Plymouth and Holderness, and what sharp bargains he had driven with people who
                  wanted to take advantage of him because they thought him inexperienced in
                  business; then they told him about the Wilburs, and after he had laughed over the
                  comical way that Hope related their adventure at "Mill Farm he declared that he
                  would go there betimes the next morning and thrash the whole family; which of
                  course he had no idea of doing, but it did the young fellow good to say it and
                  think that he should like to do it.
               Wolfert Flemming sat up late that night talking over his plans with Nicholas. "If
                  he could not raise the money to meet the note due on the first of December he
                  should sell the Homstead farm, rent the house and garden—he could not bear even to
                  think of selling his house—and move his family to Ohio, where he would begin the
                  world anew."
               "But, father, how do you expect to raise the money—a thousand dollars?" asked
                  Nicholas, gravely and sorrowfully.
               "I hope to sell "Mill Farm," my lad; and there's a balance due me from Sneathen
                  & Flemming—a balance of three hundred dollars. I hope to raise the money,"
                  said the man, lifting up his head and drawing a long breath; and his upward look
                  and deeply-drawn sigh seemed like a prayer, it was so full of trust and
                  pathos.
               "And I want you to go up to 'The Pines,'" he said, presently, "as soon as you get rested, my
                  lad."
               "I'm not tired, sir. I'd like nothing better than to start to-morrow," said Nick,
                  glad of an excuse not to go near Huldah, while he was longing in his very heart to
                  see her; but she had a secret which she kept from him, and as long as she withheld
                  her confidence he didn't care to meet her, for that secret had made a coldness
                  between them which rendered their interviews anything but pleasant.
               "Very well; thank you, my lad. Be ready to start early in the morning. Good
                  night."
               "Good night, father," said the young man. Then, instead of going to bed as he
                  should have done, he put on his hat and went out into the clear frosty night, and
                  walked about a mile up to the turn in the road, whence he could see afar off the
                  light shining from Huldah's window; and there he stood—foolish fellow—watching it,
                  and imagining he saw her shadow flitting back and forth, when it was suddenly
                  extinguished; then he went home and tumbled into bed, and had no sooner stretched
                  himself upon it than he was sound asleep—for Nick was no Romeo.
               He was away two or three days, and came back without the money. "Deacon
                  Sneathen"—he told his father—"was up to 'The Pines,' and seemed to be in a
                  dreadful fuss. I tell you what it is, father—if there's not trouble brewing there,
                  my name's not Nicholas. The Deacon told me, when I let him know what I had come
                  after, that it was one of the things that had brought him up there, to examine the
                  books and settle your claim; 'but,' says he, 'I can't do it now, Nick. I can't do
                  it until the middle of October, no how. My pardner hesn't put nothing into the
                  business, and he's drawed five thousand dollars out of it to build that dratted
                  steam saw-mill with;' and if you'll believe me, sir," continued Nicholas, "they
                  haven't got above the foundation yet. Jones, the foreman—you remember Jones,
                  father—he told me up and down that he believed things were all going to smash; and
                  said it was awful, the prayer-meetings that the new partner keeps up. The fellows
                  up there don't care much about prayer-meetings, you know, sir; they like, when
                  their day's work is over, to go to each other's huts and smoke their pipes, and
                  drink a little, and tell yarns; but the new man wants to break up all their old
                  habits, and make them come to prayer-meeting; and those who won't come he
                  dismisses. There'll be a row up there before long. The Deacon's at his wits'
                  end."
               "I'm glad of it; I am heartily glad he is," snapped Mrs. Flemming, from her
                  corner, where she sat reeling her fine yarn into hanks.
               
               "Mother!" said Wolfert Flemming, looking up in surprise.
               "I am heartily glad of it," she repeated; "and it serves him right."
               "And father"—Nicholas continued, after a quiet little laugh in his sleeve at his
                  mother's outbreak—"what do you think the Deacon said?"
               "What, my lad?"
               "He said, sir, that he had never had any trouble about his accounts or his affairs
                  while you managed them; that everything went on fair and square, and there was no
                  muss of any sort but now everything was in a 'dratted tangle and confusion.'"
               "Serves him right!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming.
               "And he didn't know at which end to begin putting things to rights," continued
                  Nicholas.
               "I'm glad of it," repeated Mrs. Flemming, making her reel fly round; "I never was
                  so glad of anything in my life."
               "Let us pray for our enemies, and bless those who despitefully use us," said
                  Wolfert Flemming, in his grave, sonorous tones—for his great, forgiving heart was
                  really pained to learn how his old associate's affairs were going to the bad.
               "You can do it, father; I can't. I should be a hypocrite to say I could. To throw
                  you over like he did, for a 'man gifted in prayer!' But I think the gifted
                  creature will be a little more than he bargained for. I am honestly glad to hear
                  it all" replied Mrs. Flemming.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE MAN WITH THE HAMMER—THE LAST BITTER DROP
               Golden September had melted into crisp, ruddy October. The autumnal fruits and the
                  poor harvests of the summer were gathered in, made the most of, and stored away in
                  granaries and barns. People were thankful when they found there would be enough to
                  subsist their own families and stock on during the coming winter; it was more than
                  they had expected. Looking down from one of the peaks of Prospect Hill, the
                  beautiful valley of the Pernigewasset appeared like a kaleidescope; it was so
                  dappled and checkered and striped with crimson, russet, orange, scarlet and rich
                  winter-green; it was so gay with flashing waters, so spangled with peaks of
                  glittering quartz, so beautified by mountain ranges, melting off into the distance
                  in exquisite shades of blue and purple!
               Apple-parings, singing-classes and quilting bees, with all the other gatherings in
                  which these thrifty people blended the utile and
                     dulce at this season of the year, began to
                  make the neighberhood lively; but our
                  friends at the Old Homestead—who were, you know, morally outlawed—remained quietly
                  at home, receiving no invitations, and too busy over their own domestic affairs to
                  take the slight much to heart. There were moments when they all felt the
                  mortification of being so utterly neglected, they would have been more than human
                  had they not; but, thinking over the cause, they were straightway consoled, and
                  offered themselves anew to Him who said: "Blessed are they that suffer persecution
                  for justice sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men
                  shall revile you .... And speak all manner of evil against you, untruly, for MY
                  sake; be glad and rejoice, for your reward is very great in heaven."
               And what did all they had suffered, and still expected to suffer, weigh against
                  this magnificent promise? Nothing; and in their souls they were glad and rejoiced,
                  even as the sun shines behind the cloud, even as the rainbow crowns the brow of
                  the storm!
               Deacon Sneathen had sent Wolfert Flemming a check for the three hundred dollars,
                  and Nicholas had been down to Plymouth again with his loaded wagon, and came back
                  with a hundred more; this, with the two hundred on hand, left a balance of four
                  hundred to make up the needed amount; but where or how it was to be raised none of
                  them could imagine. The outlook was discouraging. No one seemed to want to buy
                  "Mill Farm;" this was the last resource, except selling out altogether. But they
                  did not make each other miserable by desponding and worrying over the situation,
                  and went on exactly as if nothing had happened, full of grave thoughts, it is
                  true, and often wondering how it would end, but trying cheerfully to bear each
                  other's burdens. Nicholas was the most gloomy and unhappy of them all, except his
                  mother. Coldness had grown up between him and Huldah: he was too proud to ask, she
                  too proud to offer an explanation, consequently he had not availed himself of the
                  Deacon's permission to visit the house again. Poor Huldah! her secret had been
                  productive of nothing but trouble to her. If her little mystery had turned out as
                  she had hoped, it would have explained itself and exonerated her fully; but the
                  letter she had been so long expecting had not come yet, and "never would," she
                  thought. Neither had Reuben's letter come. But the two letters had nothing to do
                  with each other.
               Things were in this way, when one bright morning as Reuben was creeping slowly
                  along in the sunshine towards the Old Mill, everything looked so lovely that he
                  sat down on a moss-covered rock to enjoy the scene of which his poet's heart never
                  grew weary. The little rivulet—all that was left of the big brawling stream that used to turn the great
                  mill-wheel—was dancing and flashing over the pebbles at his feet, making a low
                  murmur as sweet as the tinkling of silver bells. Reuben was soothed by the sound
                  into a reverie half pleasant, half sad; a dreamy mist arose out of his mental
                  life, through which he caught glimpses of a promised land. He abandoned himself to
                  his dreams, and believing that he was alone with nature, yielded himself entirely
                  to their sweet entrancement.
               "A fine day!" said a loud, harsh voice, somewhere over him; and starting round,
                  Reuben saw the man with the hammer. "A very fine, whole-some day."
               "Yes, sir," replied the lad, touching his hat. The blood had all gone in an
                  instant from his delicate face at the sudden address and sight of the stranger,
                  and as swiftly returned, flushing his cheeks like roses.
               "I beg your pardon. I started you considerably, I reckon; but I'm a rough sort of
                  a fellow," he said, good-naturedly. "The truth is, I live so much alone among the
                  woods and rocks that I'm afraid I sometimes forget the customs of
                  civilization."
               "I'm glad to see you, sir," replied Reuben, at a loss what else to say. "I've been
                  sick, you see, and any little thing makes me jump. Are you a stranger up
                  here?"
               "I was, a month or so ago; but I have trudged over every inch of ground, mountain
                  and valley, within ten miles round, and know them all like old friends. In fact, I
                  shall hate to go away, for the scenery is the grandest I ever saw."
               "Hadn't you better stay, sir? You'll lose a great deal if you miss seeing the
                  winter up here."
               "No; I can't stay. I'm writing a book, a history of New Hampshire, and shall have
                  to hurry home in a week or two to get the first part of it in type!" Reuben's
                  heart began to go out to the man; and when he found out that he was an author, he
                  felt as if he had met one of the genii of his dreams, and regarded him with a
                  strange mixture of awe and delight. "How grand that mountain bluff, with the
                  scarlet sumachs waving from its crevices, looks with the sunlight shining upon its
                  bald brow! What do you call that?"
               "That is Chocorua, sir!"
               "An Indian name?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "I hope it has a legend?"
               "It has a true, veritable history, sir," replied Reuben, whose eyes kindled and
                  whose interest in the man increased.
               "I should be very glad to hear it, if it is not too long. I dote on these Indian
                  legends."
               "It is not very long," replied Reuben, now in his glory; "and I shall be glad to relate it. Many
                  years ago," he began, "a colony of hardy, intelligent pioneers settled at the foot
                  of the mountains, and the chief man among them was named Cornelius Campbell, whose
                  gigantic stature impressed the Indians with awe, and whose superior intellect
                  threw a spell over his companions, who felt that although he was among them he was
                  not of them. He had the bold, quick tread of one who had often wandered fearlessly
                  among the terrible hiding-places of nature; and while his voice was harsh, his
                  countenance, sometimes under the gentle influences of his home, unveiled a deep
                  tenderness of expression which lit up his hard features like the sunlight on a
                  rugged headland. His wife was a beautiful, high-born lady, who had displeased her
                  father by rejecting some splendid offers of marriage for the sake of Cornelius
                  Campbell, who had been a zealous and active enemy of the Stuarts, and whose hopes
                  were finally crushed by the restoration of Charles II. He and his beautiful bride
                  fled to America, and accompanied the party who formed the little colony which
                  settled in this place, which was so remote from all intercourse with civilization
                  that they endured great hardships and sufferings. From the Indians they received
                  neither injury nor insult. No cause of offence had ever arisen; and although their
                  visits were frequent and troublesome to the white settlers, they never exhibited
                  the least jealousy or malice.
               "In the tribe there was a prophet named Chocorua, who was to his people an object
                  of peculiar veneration. He had a mind which education and motive would have nerved
                  with giant strength; but growing up in savage freedom, it wasted itself in dark,
                  fierce, ungovernable passions. There was something fearful in the quiet
                  haughtiness of his lips; it seemed so like slumbering power—too proud to be
                  lightly roused, too implacable to sleep again. In his small, black, fiery eye,
                  expression lay coiled up like a beautiful snake. The whites knew that his hatred
                  would be terrible; but they never provoked it; and even the children became too
                  much accustomed to him to fear him.
               "Chocorua had a son ten years old, to whom Caroline Campbell had occasionally made
                  such gaudy presents as were likely to attract his savage fancy. This won the boy's
                  affections, and he became almost an inmate of their dwelling; and being
                  unrestrained by the courtesies of civilized life, he would inspect everything and
                  taste everything which came in his way. One day he discovered some poison which
                  had been prepared for a mischievous fox which had long troubled the little
                  settlement, and drank it, then went home to his father to sicken and die. From
                  that moment hatred and vengeance took
                  possession of Chocorua's soul. He did not speak of his suspicions, but brooded
                  over them in secret, to nourish the deadly revenge he contemplated against
                  Cornelius Campbell. One bright, balmy morning in June, Campbell left his dwelling
                  for the fields. Still a lover, though ten years a husband, his last look was
                  towards his wife, answering her parting smile; his last act a kiss for each of his
                  children. When he returned to dinner they were all dead, and their disfigured
                  bodies too cruelly showed that an Indian's hand had done the work.
               "In such a mind, grief, like every other emotion, was stormy. His home had been to
                  him the only green spot in life. In his wife and children he had garnered up all
                  his heart; and now they were so terribly torn from him, the remembrance of their
                  love clung to him like the death-grapple of a drowning man, sinking him down into
                  darkness and death. Then followed a calm a thousand times more terrible. Those who
                  knew and reverenced him feared that his reason was forever extinguished. But it
                  kindled again, and with it came a wild demoniac spirit of revenge. The death-groan
                  of Chocorua would make him smile in his dreams; and, when he awaked, death seemed
                  too pitiful a vengeance for the anguish that was eating into his soul.
               "At the time of the murder, Chocorua's brethren were absent on a hunting
                  expedition, and those who watched his movements observed that he frequently
                  climbed the high precipice which after wards took his name, looking out probably
                  for their return. Here Campbell resolved to effect his deadly purpose. A party was
                  formed under his guidance to cut off all chances of retreat, and the dusky prophet
                  was to be hunted like a wild beast to his lair.
               "The morning sun had scarce cleared away the fogs, when Chocorua was startled by a
                  loud voice from beneath the precipice, commanding him to throw himself into the
                  abyss below: 'The Great Spirit gave life to Chocorua, and Chocorua will not throw
                  it away at the command of the white man," he answered.
               "'Then hear the Great Spirit speak in the white man's thunder,' exclaimed
                  Campbell, as he pointed his gun at the precipice. Chocorua, though as fierce and
                  fearless as a panther, had never over-come his dread of fire-arms. He placed his
                  hands upon his ears to shut out the report; the next moment the blood spirted from
                  his neck, and he reeled fearfully on the edge of the precipice. But he recovered
                  himself, and, raising himself on his hand, he shouted in a voice that grew more
                  terrific as its harshness increased: 'A curse upon ye, white men! May the Great
                  Spirit curse ye, when He speaks in the
                  clouds and His words are fire! Chocorua had a son, and ye killed him while the sky
                  looked bright. May the lightnings blast your crops!—winds and fire destroy your
                  houses!—the evil spirit breathe upon your cattle!—your graves lie in the red man's
                  war-path!—panthers howl and wolves fatten on your bones! Chocorua goes to the
                  Great Spirit!—his curse stays with the white man.' Still uttering inaudible
                  curses, he died, and they left his bones to whiten in the sun. But his curse
                  rested on those settlers. The tomahawk and scalping-knife were busy among them;
                  the winds tore up trees and hurled them at their dwellings; their crops were
                  blasted, their cattle died, and sickness came upon their strongest men. At last
                  the remnant of them left the fatal spot, to mingle with more prosperous colonies,
                  while Cornelius Campbell became a hermit, seldom seeing his fellow-men, and two
                  years after he was found dead in his hut,*
                   And to this day the cattle in Burtontown, over there die off with a
                  strange disease, and the people believe it is owing to Chocorua's dying
                  curse."
                     
                     *A bridged from Mrs. Child's account.
                  
               "Muriate of lime, I guess, in the springs," said the stranger, as Reuben ended the
                  legend. "What you have been telling me is very interesting. I have been making
                  notes, you see, and shall put it into my book. Really, I am much obliged to you.
                  And you told it with spirit, too! You must be a poet! Yes, that is beyond doubt
                  the most picturesque feature in the landscape."
               "There is a finer glimpse of it, sir, from the upper windows of the Old Mill over
                  there, if you care to see it," said Reuben, flushed with excitement.
               "I'd go anywhere to look at a fine view," replied the stranger, picking up his
                  hammer and carpetbag, as he rose up from the mossy bank upon which he had been
                  half lying. They crossed the brook and entered the ruinous building, and climbed
                  up the crazy, dilapidated stairs to the long room under the roof, which had
                  formerly been used by the miller to store away his finest grain in. They looked
                  from the window northward, and the stranger was enthusiastic, as well he might be,
                  for nothing could surpass the grandeur of the view—Chocorua towering in the midst,
                  like a steel-hooded giant! At last there was nothing more to be seen, and the
                  stranger turned away from the windows and stood scanning the black rafters
                  overhead—then, looking up and down, walked quietly towards a rough table at the
                  lower end of the room, upon which lay several rudely-hewn blocks of stone and
                  something covered with a coarse cloth.
               "I shall have to go now," said Reuben, uneasily.
               "What have we here? Wait one moment!" answered his companion, as with the restless
                     curiosity of a tourist he pulled
                  aside the cloth and discovered a finely sculptured head of a woman, the bust
                  unfinished. There was a wistful, despairing expression in the face, a sorrowful
                  appeal in every faultless feature, and the effect was heightened by the color of
                  the material out of which it was chiselled—a bluish gray stone, which gave it the
                  appearance of an antique. Uttering an exclamation of surprise, the stranger turned
                  to Reuben, and asked him "whose work it was, and what it meant?"
               "I had nothing to do, sir, and I have been experimenting a little with the
                  chisel," answered the lad, modestly. "I spend my mornings here, reading and
                  chipping; and that is a face I tried to make like Hagar's when her child was dying
                  of thirst."
               "And you have succeeded! The effect is admirable! But the stone—where did you get
                  the stone?" asked the man, cracking a fragment off one of the blocks with his
                  hammer, and examining it closely through a magnifying glass.
               "I found it a few rods from here," answered Reuben.
               "Is it possible? I have seen no specimens like it anywhere before. Who owns the
                  land?"
               "My father—Mr. Flemming."
               "Ah!—does there seem to be much of it—the stone, I mean."
               "Yes. I found it by accident, while I was looking for something that I could work
                  easily. It is very soft and smooth. I think there's a good lot of it."
               "What does your father intend doing with it?" inquired the man, looking keenly at
                  Reuben.
               "I don't think he knows anything about it. At least he wants to sell the place,"
                  answered guileless Reuben.
               "Hasn't he seen this?" said the stranger, pointing to Hagar.
               "No. They don't know how I spend my time here; and I haven't told them, because I
                  was afraid they would think it all nonsense," replied Reuben.
               "It's not nonsense, certainly. What a situation this would be for a summer
                  cottage. I should like to buy the place myself, but I fear that I am not rich
                  enough."
               "My father only expects to get two thousand dollars for it," said Reuben, full of
                  zeal.
               "That's moderate. The scenery around is almost worth the money. The land don't
                  seem to be much, though."
               "Good crops have been got out of it sometimes, but this has been a bad year, and
                  the man who lives on it has been too sick to work it," answered Reuben, standing up bravely for the reputation of
                  the land.
               "I should like to see your father. Where is he to be found?"
               "I am going home now, and if you like you can come with me, sir," replied Reuben.
                  "I know that father will be glad to see you; he is anxious to sell as soon as he
                  can."
               "Thank you; I'll go."
               "How shall I introduce you to my father, sir?" asked Reuben in some
                  embarrassment.
               "My name is Cutter—Ethan Cutter," replied the man-with-the-hammer.
               Mr. Ethan Cutter had a long interview with Wolfert Flemming, who received and
                  treated him with kind hospitality; and when he took leave he had as good as
                  promised to buy Mill Farm and pay two thousand dollars cash for it. This was great
                  news for Mrs. Flemming and the girls; and they all praised Reuben, and were so
                  thankful that their father's troubles seemed to be coming so nearly to an end that
                  every one was glad, and so cheerful that it seemed quite like the old times again.
                  No more anxiety about that dreadful note no more fear of breaking up and leaving
                  their dear old home—"and," said Wolfert Flemming, "since Almighty God has been so
                  good to us, we will go to Boston to receive baptism, and be received into the
                  Church. This is the first wish of my heart."
               "That will be a great happiness, father," said Eva in a low voice.
               "It will indeed," added Hope earnestly.
               "To think of really receiving those august Sacraments! Oh, my God!" exclaimed
                  Wolfert Flemming, folding his hands together and looking up with an expression
                  none had ever seen on his face before, "it is like the thought of entering into
                  Thy very presence." None of them had ever seen him betray emotion like this
                  before; it was as if the man's soul were suddenly unveiled and he transfigured
                  before them. No one spoke; an awe had fallen upon them, and to at least some of
                  them his words had a deep and sublime significance which thrilled their hearts,
                  almost making them still. Mrs. Flemming grew very white, and her hands dropped
                  into her lap while she sat as if in expectation of something; but nothing more
                  happened; her husband got up quietly and left them, and Eva, listening to his
                  retreating footsteps, knew that he had gone up stairs into the little sanctuary to
                  pour out his full soul at the feet of Jesus and Mary.
               They expected every day to hear from or see Ethan Cutter, but were disappointed.
                  Wolfert Flemming could not account for his silence; he had seemed so eager to buy
                  "Mill Farm," and said so positively
                  that he would return in about ten days with the money and take possession; but the
                  days had run into weeks, and he had neither come or written What could it mean?
                  Had the man changed his mind? or was he a sharper? He might be dead; he was always
                  scrambling among the rocks,—perhaps he had fallen and broken his neck; perhaps he
                  had been waylaid and murdered for the money he had about him. This surmising and
                  expecting, was a weary and unprofitable business, and at last they gave it up,
                  feeling blind and tired; but knowing well whose right hand was leading them, and
                  having done all that humanly speaking they could do, they gravely awaited God's
                  will, praying for submission to it whatever it might be. The bright prospects were
                  clouded over, and Wolfert Flemming resigned himself to the worst.
               In this strait a strange thing happened. One evening late, as he was coming from
                  the stables with the lantern still alight in his hand, a man approached him, gave
                  him a letter, and hurried away without speaking, before he could even get a
                  glimpse of his face. Thinking it was a strange proceeding, he however set the
                  lantern on a barrel and opening the letter, read it; his heavy eyebrows lowering
                  and every vestige of color fading out of his face the while. It ran.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "WOLFERT FLEMMING,"
                           
                           "I know that the waters are rising around you, and that certain ruin
                              threatens you. Abjure your Papistical errors; place your candlestick
                              once more upon the altar of Gospel truth; return at once to the pure,
                              simple doctrines which you have abandoned, and I will advance whatever
                              money you may need.
                           
                              ELISHA RAY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Wolfert Flemming strode into the house, straight to his work-room, and placing the
                  stable lantern upon his desk, he wrote:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I write immediately, lest you fall into the error of thinking that I
                              give your offer one moment's consideration. I have this instant
                              received it, and suppose it is meant in kindness; but I call my God to
                              witness that nothing which this world contains of riches, honors, ease
                              or fame, could induce me to deny my faith in the doctrines of the
                              Holy, Apostolic, Catholic Church, which is the only true Church, and
                              founded by Jesus Christ Himself.
                           
                              Yours in Chrisian Charity,
                              WOLFERT FLEMMING."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Having folded and directed the letter, he took the lantern and went back to the
                  stables, where he saddled his horse, and mounting him he galloped out into the
                  road, never drawing rein until he got to Father Ray's door, where he dismounted,
                     and knocked in a way that brought
                  the old minister's housekeeper quickly to open it.
               "Give that to the minister!" he said, handing her the letter; "and lose no
                  time."
               "Land sakes!" she almost screamed, peering over her spectacles; "if it ain't Elder
                  Flemming!"
               But he had mounted his horse again, and was off; and the woman stood gaping out
                  into the night, listening to the tramp of the horse's hoofs with as frightened a
                  look as if she had seen the evil one himself; indeed she believed to the day of
                  her death that she had seen him in the likeness of the backsliding Elder.
               "Why! where have you been?" inquired Mrs. Flemming as her husband came into the
                  sitting-room, where they were waiting supper for him.
               "I had a little business to attend to, mother, which was unexpected, and gave me
                  no time to speak to any of you," he answered, speaking slowly and gently, for his
                  spirit was still ruffled and he had need to restrain himself under this crowning,
                  humiliating insult. To seek to take advantage of his misfortunes by offerng him
                  money to abandon his faith—it was almost too much for the man's patience.
               "Have you heard from that man?" asked Mrs. Flemming eagerly, hoping that the
                  business was connected with the sale of Mill Farm.
               "No indeed, mother. I think we may give up all expectation of seeing or hearing
                  anything of Mr. Cutter again," he replied. "It seems hard, I know; but let us
                  trust in God; we are in His hands, and His ways are not as our ways."
               "I suppose that He knows best," she answered in a tone so softened and subdued, so
                  unlike herself, that each one's heart was touched and went out in great pity and
                  tenderness towards her.
               Wolfert Flemming said nothing about the old minister's letter, and no further
                  questions were asked concerning the business which had taken him away in such hot
                  haste from home; but as they all sat around him that night in the bright ruddy
                  light of the fire, which lit up every nook and cranny of the old room—the china
                  and pewter on the shelves; the quaint buffet in
                  the corner, with its treasures of silver all glittering and crinkling and flashing
                  just as they did the first time we saw them—he talked over his plans with them
                  about going to Ohio. It seemed so certain now that their home here must be broken
                  up, he deemed it most wise and kind to repress any lingering hope they might
                  entertain of remaining, by speaking unreservedly of their future, so as to
                  accustom them to the thought of their approaching trial. A grave, chastened
                  sadness fell upon them, and their tears flowed in silence and unchecked; the very
                  idea of leaving the spot so dear to
                  them was like tearing something away which had taken root in their hearts; but
                  they thought of each other, and of Him who had borne the cross unto death for
                  them; and they resolved with His help to bear their heavy trial with courage and
                  patience and utter no complaint or murmur.
               "As there are no chances or accidents in God's universe," said Wolfert Flemming,
                  "let us console ourselves with the assurance that there are none in the affairs of
                  men. If the hairs of our head are numbered, and even the fall of the sparrow noted
                  by our Father in heaven, can we believe that He is blind to the misfortunes and
                  struggles of His creatures whom He so loved that He gave His only-begotten Son to
                  die for them. No, dear wife and children, depend upon it that He is working out
                  His own designs for our salvation; and if the ways by which He leads us are not
                  pleasant ways, and are repugnant to our nature, let us not repine, but resign
                  ourselves submissively to His providence, looking beyond this transitory life to
                  the exceeding great and eternal reward that awaits us if we are faithful and
                  patient to the end.
               There was a deep and solemn pathos in his voice which fell with almost sacramental
                  power upon their souls, calming, consoling and strengthening them with the simple,
                  hopeful words he uttered Mrs. Flemming, contrary to her usual habit of late, did
                  not go away when the hour of family prayer came, but remained listening patiently
                  to the evening devotions—which her husband read with more than ordinary
                  impressiveness—to the responses, to the Litany of Loretto, to the Confiteor and all, so new and strange to her Puritan
                  ears. No one could tell what was passing in her soul as she listened; but she was
                  there. She had stayed of her own will, and the man's heart was gladdened in the
                  midst of his sorrows by the sweet hope that she, too, would at last seek refuge
                  and consolation in the bosom of the One True Faith.
               The next day Eva went into the little Sanctuary of Our Lady, her arms full of
                  vines and clusters of richly-tinted leaves, to beautify the spot dedicated to her;
                  to hang garlands upon her shrine, and offer her the last bright hues of the faded
                  summer. While engaged in her pious occupation, saying a "Hail Mary" for every
                  golden-tinted leaf, and an "Our Father" for the scarlet ones, as she arranged them
                  here and there among the trailing vines, her mother came to the door to ask some
                  question about certain winter garments which she was anxious to get out, the
                  weather having grown very cold.
               "Yes, mother, they are in the red chest; I packed them there myself," she
                  answered.
               
               "And that is the very one I didn't open," replied Mrs. Flemming, as she lingered a
                  moment to admire the beautiful effect produced by the vines—which Eva had trained
                  by means of a wire frame work, over the image of the Blessed Virgin—and wonder if
                  her child was indeed an idolator—when suddenly there was a terrific crash; a
                  black, suffocating cloud filled the room, and she could see nothing. With a loud
                  shriek which ran through the house, and thinking only of Eva's safety, she rushed
                  blindly in to seek her.
               Wolfert Flemming, who happened to be in his work-room at the moment, heard the
                  crash overhead—heard his wife's terrified shriek, and ran up. In an instant he
                  stood appalled upon the threshold of the door! The whole ceiling was down, he
                  judged from the crash, but he could distinguish nothing through the thick cloud of
                  suffocating dust; he could only hear his wife calling wildly on Eva, and with a
                  terrible dread of, he scarcely knew what, he went in, and groping his way to the
                  window threw it wide open; and as the dust, finding an outlet, began to float
                  swiftly out, he saw Eva kneeling with her arms thrown around the image of the
                  Blessed Virgin and the crucifix, as if to protect them—her head resting on her
                  arm, her eyes closed, her face very white, and a sweet smile upon her lips, as if
                  she were asleep dreaming pleasant dreams. Her mother stood over her in speechless
                  woe, wringing her hands.
               Wolfert Flemming stooped to lift his child in his arms, thinking she was dead,
                  when a gentle sigh escaped her lips; the strong current of air from the window had
                  revived her—and lifting up her head, she said: "Mother, I am not hurt."
               "Oh, Eva!—oh, my child!—I thought you were dead!" exclaimed Mrs. Flemming,
                  kneeling down to embrace her.
               "I fainted, I believe," said Eva. "I couldn't think what it was, and was
                  frightened."
               "You have been saved from a sudden and terrible death by the interposition of the
                  Blessed Virgin, my child," said her father, kneeling beside them; "let us thank
                  her."
               Eva was not only unhurt, but untouched by the fallen mortar. Neither had the
                  fragile plaster image of the Blessed Virgin Mary received the slightest injury;
                  not a leaf was disarranged, not a vine displaced; and the white linen cover of the
                  table remained spotless and unlittered by the fragments!*
                   Everything was in the same beautiful order upon it, just as it was when
                  Mrs. Flemming stood admiring it at the moment of the accident. The ceiling must
                  have parted in the middle, just over the table, and fallen away on either side;
                  they could not tell exactly how Eva was preserved, and
                  
                     
                     *This incident actually occurred as related.
                   were very willing to ascribe it to the gracious
                  protection of her whose devout client she was, and were deeply thankful for her
                  deliverance.
               After the excitement of the accident was over, and the debris cleared away and things placed in order once more, Mrs.
                  Flemming, who had scarcely spoken since, but who looked very much flushed, and
                  frequently pressed her hands upon her temples, suddenly staggered as she was
                  crossing the room, and cried out: "Hope! Father! I can't see. Help me! help—"and
                  fell fainting in Hope's arms. When she recovered she was in a raving delirium; and
                  when the doctor, who was quickly summoned, told them that he feared the worst, the
                  afflicted family thought that the last bitter drop had been added to the cup of
                  their sorrows.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               LIGHT BEHIND THE CLOUD.
               And now the shadow of death fell heavily over the Old Homestead, and there was a
                  noiseless sorrow within, sorrow for the body and soul of her who lay there
                  unconscious of it all; grief for the wife and mother, in whom centered the deep
                  love of the afflicted family. All the trials which had come surging around them of
                  late—the loss of prosperity, the contempt of the world, the rending asunder of
                  strong ties, the prospect of giving up the home that they loved with an
                  indescribable affection, and going into exile amongst strangers; were all nothing
                  to this. In all the rest there was something human to grapple with, while they
                  strove with a heroic spirit of sacrifice for submission to God's holy will; but
                  here they were helpless; her life was in the hands of Him who gave it, and they
                  could only watch each quick, panting breath, endeavor to soothe the wild outbreaks
                  of her delirium, administer the remedies prescribed, and pray that if it were His
                  holy will this bitter cup might pass from them. They tried to be resigned to the
                  dreadful issue which appeared inevitable: and the honest endeavor was much, but it
                  was not submission; and they felt as if their Father in heaven were hiding His
                  face from them. Then, as she seemed to draw nearer and nearer to the "Dark River,"
                  and all hopes of her recovery were fading and going out in their hearts, the cry
                  of their souls arose far above human fears, or hopes, that Almighty God would pity
                  her and grant her the gift of faith before she passed into His presence. And they
                  offered up the great sorrow—they could do no more—in union with the bitter sorrows
                  of Him who sweat great drops of blood in the Garden of Gethsemane.
               
               Mrs. Flemming was very near unto death. She lay day after day in alternate
                  lethargy and delirium. Sometimes she would start up, shrieking, "I see that woman!
                  Not old Massisquoi—no! no! but a woman terrible in her brightness! Hide me from
                  her; hide, oh hide me!" One day she exclaimed, her eyes luminous with fever, and
                  staring out before her—"She saved Eva! I saw her! It's no use to waste your breath
                  talking, Father Ray. What I see I believe! You are all a set of hard-hearted,
                  canting Pharisees! I've been watching ye all, and comparing your ways with his,
                  and they are not alike; ha! ha! ha! they're as far apart as the east is from the
                  west. Ye have the word, but not the spirit—whitewashed sepulchres that ye are!
                  Tearing, tearing like vultures at the tender flesh of the pure in heart! nagging,
                  like bloodhounds, at the life, and limbs of the innocent! Go away, and let me sail
                  over the dark, lonely sea! Is it the 'May Flower,' captain? How strange! there's
                  the 'May Flower' sure enough, rolling and breaking up against Plymouth Rock! Oh,
                  I'm afraid to go—the waters look so black—and there's the woman!—hide me from
                  her!" And so she raved—sometimes coherently, as if she saw visions; sometimes
                  wildly, as if horrible dreams were torturing her brain; and they could do nothing
                  but weep and lave the burning forehead and hands, and look lovingly, while they
                  prayed, into the wild fever-bright eyes which were so unconscious of their
                  presence, and kiss the quivering lips upon which the short breath fluttered as if
                  every moment it might pass away forever.
               It was almost too much for Wolfert Flemming, who walked silently in and out, and
                  watched beside her through the long nights, upon his knees, holding her thin
                  burning hand in his while he besought Almighty God to pity them and spare her,
                  ever adding: "But help me to say 'Thy will be done,' for of myself I can do
                  nothing."
               The news of Mrs. Flemming's illness had gone abroad; and many and kind were the
                  inquiries daily made by former friends and old neighbors; many were their offers
                  of service "It was their duty," they thought, "she being one of themselves;" and
                  out of human pity for the great grief which had fallen upon the backsliding
                  family, they sincerely wished to do something kind and neighborly, although they
                  did not hesitate to say to one another, that "it was only the just retribution of
                  heaven on the Flemmings for their apostacy," and looked upon Mrs. Flemming as the
                  victim of their sin. Mrs. Wilde came from her distant home, prepared to stay
                  several days; even the old minister rode over, braving all that might be
                  unpleasant in the visit, to pray with and endeavor to console this suffering member of his flock. But he was told that
                  she was utterly unconscious and the doctor had ordered perfect quiet; and he went
                  away with wrath in his heart. Wolfert Flemming thanked all who came, but added:
                  "There is no need, friends. We are enough." And they turned homewards, wondering,
                  while they shook their heads, "if they were going to let the woman die without
                  Christian help?"
               Huldah was there every day, coming in so quietly, with such a sorrowful look in
                  her face, and speaking so gently, that Hope and Eva were comforted by her
                  presence; and many were the little tasks of love deftly done by her swift fingers,
                  which, had she not been there, would have taken them away from their mother's
                  bedside. It was a sweet labor of love to the girl to anticipate what was wanting
                  and go and do it without a fuss. She took the neglected dairy under her charge,
                  doing everything there just as she knew Mrs. Flemming would like to have it done;
                  and, moving quietly to and fro through the house, restored all things to perfect
                  order and cleanliness, thinking: "If she gets well, she shall have no worry." For,
                  even a few days illness in a family throws the best-ordered domestic affairs into
                  confusion; and if the illness is prolonged, nothing is more forlorn than the look
                  of neglect that reigns throughout the household. But although there under his
                  roof, and facing with him the great sorrow which wrung his heart until he wished
                  he might die, Huldah and Nicholas rarely exchanged a word with each other—seldom
                  meeting, indeed, except at the table, where each one was so occupied with the
                  subject of Mrs. Flemming's illness that nothing else was thought or spoken of.
               Once he found her in the old sitting-room, looking out into the twilight very
                  quiet and very sad, her forehead pressed against the window-pane, upon which the
                  first snow-flakes of the season were drifting and melting, trickling down like
                  tears. He watched her for a little while, then walked over and stood beside her,
                  and laying his hand upon her shoulder, said: "Have you nothing to say to me,
                  Huldah?"
               "Nothing," she answered; starting round half frightened, for she did not know that
                  a soul was near her until he spoke. "Less now than ever. I shall never tell you
                  now."
               "Not for the sake of my dying mother?" he asked.
               "For her sake—no," she replied with quivering lips.
               "I shall never ask you again," he said harshly—"remember that;" and he strode out
                  of the room, leaving her where she stood weeping silently.
               
               But at last there came a day when Hope and Eva observed that their mother's
                  attacks of delirium were fewer and less violent, and she appeared to sleep more
                  quietly. Wolfert Flemming and his boys had been out about the place much of the
                  day, attending to some matters which could be no longer neglected without great
                  loss, and their heavy hearts were much lightened when Huldah met them with the
                  good news; but alas! the doctor came and told them that "these apparently
                  favorable symptoms were the result of increasing weakness; the fever was abating,
                  but he had not the slightest hope that she had vitality enough left to tide over
                  the crisis." Implicit confidence in medical opinion was not a weakness of these
                  strong-headed, healthy people, and somehow they hoped against hope and the doctor,
                  and renewed their patient loving watch, noting every breath and counting every
                  flutter of the weary pulse of their mother, feeling that their yearning hearts and
                  firm faith must bring her back to them, must stay her
                  feet on the very marge of the Dark River!
               I have now got to a part of my story which, to those who have not followed
                  attentively every thread, may appear incredible; but what I am going to relate is
                  simply the result of natural causes, developed by individuals and circumstances,
                  undoubtedly governed by Divine Providence for the good of those who were willing
                  to sacrifice every earthly thing for conscience sake. The working out of the order
                  of God's providence upon earth is one endless miracle and attestation of His
                  watchfulness over the affairs of His children; let us not be surprised, then, at
                  any manifestation of His goodness, be it great or small, but with thankful and
                  humble hearts recognize His Almighty hand—nothing doubting—and give all glory to
                  Him "who hath so loved us."
               That evening, late, Wolfert Flemming left his wife's bedside, his heart lifted up
                  with thankfulness, for he saw much hope in the fact that she lay quietly on her
                  pillow in a deep and apparently natural sleep. He was alone in the quaint old
                  sitting-room, half dozing, for in truth he was worn out for sleep, and was only
                  kept awake by the disagreeable thought which would force itself upon him that in
                  ten more days the note, which it was impossible for him to meet, would fall due.
                  And how then? Well! he was going over it all again, when there came a quick rap at
                  the door. Thinking that it might be some one to inquire after the health of the
                  poor invalid upstairs, he stepped to the door and opened it, and there stood the
                  man with the hammer—carpet-bag and all—smiling and holding out his hand like an
                  old friend assured of a warm welcome. The men shook hands, said "How d'ye do" to each other and
                  Wolfert Flemming invited him in: an invitation he was not slow to avail himself
                  of.
               "I guess," he said, "you thought I'd gone off for good and all, Mr. Flemming; but
                  I had some rouble to scrape that money together, you see—."
               "Speak lower, friend, if you please; my wife is very ill, and a strange voice
                  might disturb her. In fact, Mr. Cutter, I am in no mood for business tonight. Some
                  other time—."Then he stopped, remembering how much depended on the sale of 'Mill
                  Farm,' and what happiness it would be to her, if she was spared, to
                  find that the note was paid, and they were to stay in the old home; and he added:
                  "But, as you please. Just as well now, I guess, as any other time."
               "Well, Mr. Flemming, I sympathize heartily with you. I had a trial of the same
                  sort once, and know all about it, but business is business, and, like time and
                  tide, it waits for no man. I come up to-night to conclude the purchase of that
                  place down yonder—'Mill Farm,' I have brought the money with me, and should like
                  to settle the matter now."
               Just at that moment one of those prolonged piercing shrieks, which his wife had
                  uttered from time to time all through her illness, rang through the silent
                  house—and Wolfert Flemming started up, saying: "I can do nothing about it
                  to-night, Mr. Cutter I must go to my wife. Come up in the morning, about ten
                  o'clock, and we'll have the affair settled."
               "Very well, Mr. Flemming. That will do; that is, if there's no one ahead of me
                  offering you more; in which case I'd like to know. For I've taken a fancy to the
                  place, you see, and won't be out-bid," he added, looking keenly out of his ferret
                  eyes into the pale honest face of Wolfert Flemming.
               "I have no other bid for the farm, Mr. Cutter,' he answered, "and consider your
                  offer quite liberal."
               "All right. Good-by. I shall be up here at ten, sharp," said Mr. Cutter, going
                  away with a well-satisfied look, for he was on the eve of a great speculation
                  which would eventually make his fortune—that is, if nothing happened to interrupt
                  his plans.
               When Flemming entered the sick room, his wife was composed, and sleeping quietly
                  again. "Oh, father!" whispered Eva, "she looked at me as if she knew me; she did
                  indeed!"
               Later on, while he sat reading the Book of books, in the silence and half-gloom of
                  the old room down stairs, Hope ran down to tell him that her mother had swallowed
                  a wine-glass full of beef tea, and was
                  sleeping and breathing naturally. Once more he went up, and stood at the bedside
                  looking at her. There was a change—he saw that at once The scarlet flush had faded
                  out of her face, leaving it very white; she breathed softly and regularly, and the
                  wrung, agonized expression had gone from her forehead. Tears rushed to his eyes;
                  the strong man gave way—and covering his face with his hand, he turned and
                  noiselessly left the room, and going into Eva's oratory knelt before the images of
                  JESUS and MARY to pour out the emotions of his grateful soul and implore their
                  gracious assistance. The full moon was shining through the leafless vines that
                  covered the window, and lighted up with a peaceful radiance the sacred images and
                  pure immortelles, that were garlanded with
                  evergreens around the shrine; and, as he prayed, a blessed calm, of which this
                  scene was only the type, fell upon his soul, resting and consoling him. His
                  devotions over, he went to the window, and softly opening it, he stood gazing up
                  into the "limitless realms of the air," knowing that somewhere in the blue
                  spangled distance its noiseless waves laved the land of the living, the abode of
                  God and His saints; and winged by faith, his spirit soared beyond the stars and
                  stood upon the glorious shores, listening to the far-off anthems of the blest. He
                  felt strenghtened and comforted. and felt for the first time that he could say in
                  spirit and in truth: "God's will is my will. Yea! though he slay me, yet will I
                  trust Him."
               As he lingered a moment after closing the window, he was startled by the sound of
                  a man's footsteps on the flagged walk below; and looking down he saw a stooping
                  figure crouched behind the trunk of one of the old elms, as if for the purpose of
                  concealment. Who could it be? Nicholas was in his mother's room, Reuben was abed.
                  He went down—and noiselessly opening the side door, treading softly and lightly,
                  he stepped out upon the flags; and walking swiftly towards the crouching object,
                  said: "Who are you, and what do you want, friend?"
               "I don't want nothin'; but don't'ee be mad with me, Elder, I got suthin' to say
                  that ought to be said," answered the man from under his slouched hat.
               "Who are you?" inquired Wolfert Flemming, amazed.
               "Wal, you see, my name's Wilbur," he replied in great confusion;—"Wilbur, down
                  there at the "Mill Farm."
               "What have you to say, my friend? Speak quickly. Can I do anything for you?"
               "Nothin', Elder, nothing but to hear what I come to say," replied Wilbur in
                  quavering tones, for Wolfert Flemming's
                  kindness of manner touched him to the quick.
               "Of course I am willing to hear whatever you may wish to say; but let us walk a
                  little further away from the house; step on the grass—I fear to disturb my wife,
                  who is ill. Now, what is it?"
               "Elder!" said Wilbur, still calling him by his old title, with an idea that it was
                  respectful and polite to do so; "Elder, was that man with the hammer up here
                  to-night?"
               "Yes; why?"
               "'Cause," answered Wilbur, coming so close to him that their faces almost touched,
                  and speaking in a sharp whisper, "'cause he's a big rascal, Elder, and is tryin'
                  to cheat you. Now, you see, if it was knowed that I came up here on any arrand
                  what-somever, Father Ray he'd have my work took away from me right off; but I
                  can't forgit, Elder, all that you and yourn done for me and mine; and—dang it—I
                  don't want to, nuther! Only, you know, I must look out for the main chance—havin'
                  all them young 'uns to see arter and feed. So, you see, I waited until I thought
                  everybody from the Lake clean up to Mount Washington was abed and sound asleep,
                  before I started. I knowed Miss' Flemming was sick, and knowed that some of the
                  family'd be up along with her all night; and I thought I'd run my chance of
                  getting speech with you afore to-morrow—for then it would be too late. I'd have
                  come before sundown, but I was afeard on account of my work, you know. How's Miss'
                  Flemming?"
               "A little better, we hope," replied Wolfert Flemming, who began to think that the
                  man was certainly intoxicated.
               "Bully for her! Now, you never fear, Elder;—things'll come straight yet! I tell
                  you what!—them that wears broad phylacteries, and prays aloud in public places,
                  and goes in for crammin' the Scripture down a fellow's throat, thinks they've got
                  the world in a sling; but when God begins to fight agin' 'em they cave in pretty
                  quick. Look here, Elder, have you sold "Mill Farm" yet?"
               "As good as sold it, Wilbur," he answered, wondering more and more at the man's
                  manner.
               "For how much?"
               "Two thousand dollars."
               "Gosh! Look here, Elder Flemming, that 'ere place down yonder is worth two hundred
                  thousand dollars, if it's worth a cent!" said Wilbur, emphatically.
               Thinking more than ever that the man was either crazy or drunk, Wolfert Flemming
                  determined to get rid of him as soon as possible, and said—"Wilbur, my wife is
                  ill, and I can stand here no longer. Thank you for risking so much to come up here to inquire after her. But you'd
                  better go home and go to bed;" and was about leaving him, when Wilbur laid his
                  hand upon his arm to detain him, and whispered:
               "Just one minit, Elder. I tell you what it is: them two smart Boston fellows
                  didn't know I was listening to every word they said. I was down yonder this
                  afternoon, creepin' in and out amongst the bushes to watch where our turkey-hen
                  laid, when here the two come, measurin' and proddin' and turnin' up the land, and
                  crackin' away at the stuns—why, bless you, they've been at that these three
                  days!"
               "Who?—what men, Wilbur?"
               "That fellow with the hammer, and another he brung up from Boston town. And look
                  here, Elder: while I laid there in the furze, flat o' my face, watching which way
                  the turkey-hen went, I heard the man with the hammer tell the other how he found
                  out the soapstun kerry."*
                  
               
                  
                  *Quarry.
               
               "Soapstone!—What soapstone, Wilbur?"
               "The soapstun down yonder at Mill Farm. Bless your soul, Elder, there's hull lots
                  of it there; and the way the man with the hammer found it out was from seeing
                  suthin' your boy Reuben had cut out of a piece—a woman's head, I believe;—then he
                  ups and asks Reuben where he found that sort of stun; and the boy he tells him,
                  innocent like where he got it, and what lots of it was where that came from; and,
                  not thinking anything wrong, tells him the place was for sale. With that he—oh,
                  he's a sharp one, Elder!—whips up here to see you and, sayin' nothin' to nobody
                  about the kerry, offers to buy the place. Then he goes off, you know, and jest
                  came back three days ago, bringin' the other fellow with him; and such a proddin'
                  and measurin' and chippin' away at the rocks and stuns was a sight for sore eyes.
                  I heard it all, as I tell you, this afternoon, while I was watchin' my turkey-hen;
                  and I heard that man with the hammer say as how you 'was a green one, not to know
                  the value of your own land; and that it would be wuth nigh a million of dollars
                  that kerry.' Then says I to myself: the Elder's folks saved my wife and young 'uns
                  from starvation, and if I can do it without bein' found out I'll do 'em this good
                  turn as sure as I live; and here I am—and, dang it, I'm thankful that you've heard
                  it!'
               Wolfert Flemming's heart almost stood still as he listened to the man's strange
                  recital. He knew full well the high commercial value of soapstone; and if it was
                  true that there was a soapstone quarry down there at the farm, what a risk he had
                  run of losing all the advantages which a merciful Providence had furnished to
                  extricate him from present difficulties
                  and make his children independent for life; how nearly he had been ruined by a
                  sharp and dishonourable man! There was no reason why he should doubt Wilbur's
                  story, but he determined not to act hastily; he would question Reuben; and if his
                  wife got no worse, he would go, as soon as the sun arose, to examine into the
                  matter himself. These were his thoughts as he stood there with his great eyebrows
                  lowering over his eyes: while Wilbur, who was shivering with cold, watched him,
                  wondering if he was going to be so stupid as to let that man with the hammer have
                  'Mill Farm' for two thousand dollars, "with the soapstun kerry thrown in for
                  nothin'." "See here, Elder," he said, unable to contain himself any longer, "I'm
                  afeard you don't b'lieve me, anyhow?"
               "Yes I do, Wilbur, and thank you for your friendly act. Depend upon it, if that
                  quarry turns out well, you shall never suffer for work again," he answered, while
                  he grasped the man's hand.
               "'Nough said, Elder; I'd risk my life for any of your folks—be sure of that," said
                  Wilbur. "You look out sharp for that fellow; and I hope Miss' Flemming'll be on
                  the mend soon. Good night."
               "Good night, my friend. You shall hear something from me to-morrow."
               When Wolfert Flemming went back to the sitting-room he found Nicholas there, ready
                  to relieve him and watch the rest of the night. Reuben was with him, cuddled up
                  close to the fire, with a sleepy, happy, dreamy look in his face. They told him
                  that their mother was still sleeping, and had not started once since he left the
                  room. This was good news; then, instead of going to bed, he sat down with them and
                  told them all that had happened.
               "It's true, father. I did find this nice soft stone early in the summer; don't you
                  remember how my little mammy laughed at me, and scolded when I told her I was
                  hunting for soft stone? But I found it; and I've been chipping away down yonder at
                  the Old Mill these three months, making things out of it; and didn't tell anybody,
                  because I was afraid you'd say it was nonsense, and be worried with me for idling
                  away my time. There's lots and lots of it there, father?"
               "How did Cutter happen to find it out?"
               "We met, one day, down there at the brook; and he began asking me questions about
                  the scenery, and got me to tell him the story of Chocorua; then I took him up into
                  the mill, to show him the view from the north window; and—and—well, father, after
                  that he began to spy 'round, and went and uncovered something I was making, and
                  asked me right off where I got that stone. I told him, and then I let him know
                  that the place was for sale, and
                  thought I was doing great things," said Reuben, his arms folded on his father's
                  knees—and his beautiful face, lit up by the ruddy fire, uplifted and beaming.
               "And so you did, Ruby, as it turns out," answered his father, smoothing back the
                  golden tangles from the boy's forehead; then he leaned down and kissed it; then
                  telling Nicholas to call him at six o'clock, went into the next room to lie down.
                  And Nicholas made Reuben go over it all again, and tell him exactly where the
                  quarry lay, and what he had been about all summer at the Old Mill; and what
                     he said, and what the man with the hammer said; until
                  the boy's patience began to give out; then sturdy Nick said, looking with
                  wide-open eyes at him, as if he discovered something about him he'd never seen
                  before, "It's a funny thing altogether, Ruby, that you, idling around all the
                  time, should be of more use after all than any of the rest of us, who have worked
                  from sunrise to sunset, until our hands are like iron, while yours are like
                  velvet. I don't know how it is; it seems as if there's a chink in the world for
                  everybody, and that nobody but the right one will fit in it. But I'm mighty glad,
                  old fellow! I never was so glad of anything in my life, and never expect to be
                  again, until I see mother sitting there in her old 'May-Flower chair,' knitting
                  stockings." Here the great, tender-hearted fellow twinkled a tear off his
                  eyelashes, and pretended to use his handkerchief. "And I tell you what I'm going
                  to do, Ruby, if mother is better to-morrow."
               "What?" asked Reuben.
               "I'm going to punch Cutter's head against the biggest block of soapstone I can
                  find, for trying to come such a swindle over my father. Why, just think of it! If
                  it hadn't been for you and Wilbur—of all people on earth—father would have been
                  cheated and ruined, and everything gone to smash!"
               "She'll be so glad—poor little mammy!—to find everything straight
                  again when she's better," murmured Reuben. "Won't she, Nick?"
               "I guess she will. And I tell you what! it'll make them stare who have been trying
                  to grind my father to powder—because he loved God better than the world—when they
                  find out that he has gained more than he lost. Whew!" said Nicholas, snapping his
                  fingers while he indulged in a little pardonable exultation, "won't old Daddy Ray
                  preach a sermon about Dives, though! and declare that God has punished father with
                  riches, that in the end he may share that miserable cove's bed of flame, and call
                  upon him and Deacon Sneathen in vain for a drop of water to cool his tongue!"
               "What nonsense you are talking, Nick. Lie down there on the settle, and keep quiet—I'm sleepy," said Reuben, amused at
                  Nick's outburst, so human and so natural; adding, "you know I have to go with
                  father, to show him where the quarry is; so be quiet, and let me nod a little. I
                  guess, Nick, mother'll have a good time now, stuffing her pillows with soft
                  stone—won't she?" And he laughed a quiet little laugh, as he sat looking down into
                  the glowing coals.
               Mrs. Flemming's condition grew no worse, and towards sunrise Reuben and his father
                  were on their way towards the Old Mill. When Hagar was unveiled, and the red light
                  of the golden sunrise streamed in upon her, Wolfert Flemming started back,
                  forgetting for an instant what had brought him there. "It's the image of your
                  mother, Reuben!" he said.
               "Yes, father; I've seen her look so very often of late. I call it Hagar, because I
                  think Hagar must have looked so when Ishmael was dying of thirst!"
               "And this is your little mystery, my lad?"
               "Not quite all, father. I'll tell you the rest of it sometime," replied the boy,
                  with a troubled look.
               "I'll trust you, my son; and premise you here, in all the sacred faith of a
                  father's dear love, that, should prosperity result from your discovery, you shall
                  go to Rome to study, and cultivate this wonderful talent which God has given
                  you."
               "O, father! father! I shall ask for nothing more or better on earth!" exclaimed
                  the boy, clasping his hands. Then, almost beside himself with excitement, he
                  showed his father the blocks of soapstone which he had dug up and hewn out himself
                  with such labor and exertion that many a time he had fallen fainting to the earth
                  while he worked; and Wolfert Flemming, on examining them, found them to be genuine
                     steatite of the finest quality. Hurrying out,
                  they walked swiftly down to the quarry, where Reuben pointed out the valuable
                  stone cropping out amongst the furze and undergrowth in every direction. He was
                  satisfied—more than satisfied—his full heart overflowing with gratitude to
                  Almighty God and adoring the ways of His providence, as he walked homewards,
                  thinking of her, ever of her, and the great happiness that prosperity
                  would bring her, after the sharp, sudden reverses and anxieties of the past. And
                  he thought too of the great power that riches would give him, for good; if
                  Almighty God prospered him he should regard himself as his steward and nothing
                  more, and labor justly in the service of the poor and suffering; so that when the
                  end came, he should hear the blessed sentence: "Well done, good and faithful
                  servant, enter thou into the joy of the Lord!" For this aim, he would indeed make
                  friends of the mammon of unrighteousness. Full of such thoughts as these, Wolfert Flemming
                  scarcely felt the earth under his feet until he reached his own door. Going in, he
                  found Hope busy preparing fresh nourishment for her mother, and learned that she
                  still slept quietly and peacefully.
               By-and-by, Martha Flemming awoke once more to life and consciousness, knowing the
                  dear faces bending over her; but so weak—oh, so weak—that she could only look
                  slowly from one to another without speaking. The fever was gone. "But," said the
                  doctor, croaking like an old raven, "the worst is to come. She is very feeble, and
                  may not have strength enough left to rally; but feed her up with beef tea and
                  brandy; keep everything quiet and she may—mind! I don't say she
                  will—get well." But they felt, somehow, that Almighty God, in answer to their
                  fervent prayers, was going to spare her to them; so what the doctor said did not
                  trouble them much; full of hope and thankfulness, they only thought of following
                  out his sensible directions. Hovering around their mother as noiselessly as
                  sun-bright shadows, they watched her countenance and watched her pulse, and on the
                  slightest indication of increased weakness administered the warm nourishing beef
                  tea and the life-giving stimulant. She was too weak to utter a word; she was as
                  pallid as death, and wasted to a shadow; but alive, and conscious, and calm!
                  Truly, they lifted up their hearts and were glad. Nothing should trouble them now.
                  They would joyfully bear all things since she was saved.
               Ethan Cutter came that morning at the hour appointed: with a confident, beaming,
                  and well-satisfied expression of countenance; his pocket-book gorged with crisp
                  hundred dollar bills, papers made out ready for signing, and jubilant over the
                  near termination of his dishonest plans. His disappointment and fury can be better
                  imagined than described when Wolfert Flemming told him in grave, firm tones, and
                  few simple words, that "he had changed his mind about 'Mill Farm,' and should not
                  sell it.'
               He insisted on knowing the reasons, in a voice of suppressed fury; and although he
                  had no right to know, Wolfert Flemming, in his quiet level tones, his grave
                  handsome face unruffled in the least of its lines, told him that a "recent
                  discovery of a valuable soapstone quarry upon the place, by his son, which he had
                  only learned last night, had decided him, very naturally, not to dispose of the
                  property." Then the man's fury broke loose. His dishonest schemes, his dreams of
                  wealth, his glittering castles in the air, were suddenly crumbled, and came
                  tumbling about his ears like the burnt, blackened sticks of brilliant firework;
                  and he raved and threatened and beat the table with his hammer at such a rate, that Nicholas seized him by his
                  shoulders and turned him neck and crop out of the house, never relaxing his hold
                  until he had run him like a wheelbarrow, a full quarter of a mile; then he gave
                  him a kick which sent him whirling down the steep hill at a speed which brought
                  him flat on his face when he reached the bottom. I don't know how I can excuse
                  Nicholas, unless you will take into consideration that he knew the least
                  excitement might prove fatal to his mother, for the fellow was making himself
                  heard all over the house—and that he could no more have stood there and heard his
                  father insulted again than he could have caught a streak of lightning and tied it
                  up in a bow-knot. He certainly felt better after it; and when his father reproved
                  him for his violence, his only reply was: "I couldn't help it, sir. I intended to
                  punch his head against the quarry, and I'm thankful I didn't. Not that he don't
                  deserve it, for trying to swindle you: then coming up here putting my mother's
                  life in danger, and insulting you before your children! Jehosaphat!"
               "Let us forget it, Nick—and forgive. God has been very good to us—too good for us
                  to soil the gratitude we owe Him by thoughts of uncharitableness and violence,"
                  said Wolfert Flemming, in that grave musical undertone of his that sounded like
                  one of the minor keys of an organ. Then Nicholas said no more about the matter.
                  But he felt very well satisfied, and laughed in his sleeve whenever he thought of
                  Ethan Cutter's absurd appearance while engaged in that involuntary race which
                  terminated so ignominiously, and he could not to save his life, feel sorry for
                  having been the cause of it.
               Presently he began to ask his father some questions about working the quarry.
                  Sanguine and full of expectation of immediate results, Nicholas had not given the
                  subject a single practical thought; his mind was full of chaotic ideas of wealth
                  to be made suddenly available, which would place them all far beyond the reach of
                  every earthly care; consequently his father's words almost took away the young
                  man's breath.
               "The discovery is a valuable one," he answered slowly; "but to work the quarry
                  will require some capital, which I do not possess; and I can think of nothing now,
                  Nick, except that note which will be due in a few days, and which I cannot meet. I
                  may be able to raise the balance on a fresh mortgage, or even by selling an
                  interest in the quarry; but I don't know! I am in God's holy keeping; and, having
                  done all that I can, I shall await His divine will, trusting Him to the end."
               Nicholas had not thought of all this—and it came down upon his warm, glowing
                  visions, and proud, fond anticipations
                  like a douche of ice-water, "It was too hard,"
                  he thought, "that with all this untold wealth lying in the earth at their very
                  feet, his father could not raise a few paltry hundreds to save his credit and his
                  honor. Of course the note would be protested at the old bank down there at
                  Plymouth; there seemed to be no help for it." The young man gnashed his teeth; he
                  would have sold himself into slavery to have saved his father—he would have died
                  for him—but nobody up there bought slaves, and there was no one who would have
                  thought it worth while to set a price on his life; and the fact forced itself upon
                  his mind, that however great and humiliating the trial, he would have to wait and
                  bear it when it came. Then Nicholas Flemming wished in his soul that he was a
                  Christian in deed and in truth, with the courage and resignation to bear nobly for
                  God's sake whatever troubles He might send.
               "But I am not a Christian," thought Nick; "I've never been baptized, and know
                  nothing about it; but I'll try to bear it like a man, come what may; and, if God
                  spares me, I'll help my father with a will, and never rest until he gets on his
                  feet again." Then Nicholas went out to take a smoke, and wonder at things which no
                  philosopher, or prophet, or theologian, or sage has ever been able to explain
                  satisfactorily, and never will—for He who holds the balance only knows why this is
                  put into one scale, and that in the other; why the innocent suffer and the guilty
                  triumph and prosper; why His Church bears the stigmata while the world is crowned
                  with a diadem and arrayed in purple.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               HOW THE CLOUD PASSED AWAY AND THE LIGHT SHONE.
               "Yes, Hope, your mother is quite out of danger. Give her some broiled chicken
                  to-day, and a slice of toast with her tea. But she mustn't eat too much at a
                  time—mind that! People who are getting over a low fever never know when they have
                  enough," said the doctor, one morning as he was going away.
               "I'll feed her like a motherless bird," answered Hope, laughing. "Indeed, doctor,
                  I am so happy and thankful I don't know what to do with myself. Under God, your
                  skill and attention have saved my mother's life."
               "Well, I don't know about that. Your mother has a pretty tough constitution of her
                  own to begin with. But I had no hope of her at one time, I assure you; she was
                  pretty nigh gone, and I did nothing but come and look at her, and feel her pulse for three days. It was her
                  tough constitution brought her through."
               "And," thought Hope, "the compassion of God, in answer to our prayers." But she
                  kept her thoughts to herself, for the old doctor, who had got his diploma in
                  Paris, was very atheistical in his notions, and would not have understood her.
               "And see here, Hope," he said, with one foot in the stirrup, "I think you might
                  fix some pillows and blankets on that lounge in your mother's room, and let your
                  father and Nick lift her very gently and lay her upon it. It will rest and refresh
                  her. And remember: she's not to be excited about anything at all. Good day."
               It was a happy day for the Flemmings, and fervent were the thanks which they
                  offered Almighty God for the restoration of the beloved one. They gathered around
                  her, as she lay upon the lounge, as white as the pillows on which she reposed, and
                  so feeble that she could only speak in whispers, and thought that she was the
                  loveliest and most precious sight on earth. A bright fire crackled and blazed
                  merrily on the red hearth, and the sun shone warmly through the white curtains,
                  making arabesque shadows of the leafless boughs of the old elms upon them. Reuben,
                  in a quiet transport, had cuddled himself upon the floor close beside his mother,
                  his head resting against the lounge, his hand clasping hers, which every now and
                  then he softly kissed, looking supremely happy. Her eyes full of patient love
                  followed her dear ones as they moved to and fro about the room, watching their
                  incomings and outgoings; glad when they came, and looking after them with wistful,
                  tender glances when they went. There was a look of deep, placid content in her
                  face, a sort of spiritualized expression, which seemed to come from some higher
                  cause than the healthful reaction of the vital forces. Hope and Eva had noticed,
                  since their mother had recovered her consciousness, that she would sometimes lay
                  with her eyes closed, her hands folded on her breast, and her lips moving as if in
                  prayer. There had been no hour of the day or night while she lay helpless and
                  unconscious, that prayers, with the silent appeal of tears, were not offered to
                  heaven for her; there was not an hour of the day or night now that they did not
                  offer thanks, and pray for her conversion to the True Faith.
               One evening Wolfert Flemming sat alone with her. The night shadows had crept into
                  the room, and the firelight played upon the wall in grotesque forms, flickering up
                  and down like the figures in an elfin dance. He thought she was sleeping—she lay
                  so quiet; but when he closed his book and looked towards her, he observed her lips
                     moving and her hands folded in an
                  attitude of prayer. Presently she opened her eyes—and seeing him standing there,
                  smiled and held out her hand.
               "Mother," he said very gently, as he drew his chair close to her bedside and held
                  her attenuated hand in his, "would it be a comfort to you to see the minister? If
                  it will, I will go for him now."
               "No," she answered, after a pause, in which it was evident that a struggle was
                  going on in her mind; "no, I am going to tell you something that will surprise
                  you."
               "Had you not better wait until you get stronger?" he asked.
               "No; it will do me good to relieve my mind. I shall never get stronger with this
                  weighing on me as it does," she replied.
               "I hope I may be able to help you, dear wife," he answered. "What is it that you
                  wish to tell me?"
               "You know, father," she began, "what a bitter trial your change of religion was to
                  me, and how deeply grieved I was that Eva and Hope should have followed your
                  example—how angry and disappointed when they ruined their earthly prospects for
                  the sake of a religion which I thought worse than idolatrous."
               "Yes, mother. You should have been spared it all, if the issue had been a merely
                  earthly one there's no sacrifice that I and your children would not have made to
                  spare you a single unnecessary pang; but this was an affair upon which the
                  salvation of our souls depended—an affair which lay between Almighty God and our
                  own souls for all eternity," he answered in low earnest tones.
               "I know it; I know it now," replied Mrs. Flemming with quivering lips. "It caused
                  me such suffering of mind as I had never imagined, and the unchristian treatment
                  you received at the hands of those who had been your friends and brethren was like
                  gall and wormwood added to it. Then I began to contrast the patient firmness, the
                  cheerful humility and deep faith of you Catholics, with the fierce, unrelenting,
                  persecuting spirit of the people of my own sect. And through it all I was troubled
                  about our Saviour's words concerning the Bread of Life. I tried to stop thinking
                  about it—but could not. Having got thus far, I began to read your Catholic books
                  by stealth, and my mind got so torn and tossed between my pride and my conscience,
                  that I used to think sometimes that I was going stark crazy. Then one night I was
                  going past that room—Eva's room—and heard you, as I thought, praying. I stood at
                  the door and listened, and heard every word you and Eva said about the Mother of
                  Jesus; and oh, husband, it never left me an instant, but kept going on, and on,
                  and on, in my mind, day and night,
                  waking and sleeping I had been more than usually exercised the day the ceiling
                  fell. You know I was at the door, speaking to Eva, when it gave way; and as it
                  came crashing down I thought I saw the image suddenly grow large and bright, and
                  stretch out its arms to save her. But that was owing, I guess, to the excited
                  state of my mind, and the terrible, terrible fright! An hour or two afterwards I
                  fell ill, and began to dream of her, and I kept on dreaming and dreaming
                  constantly about her. It seemed to me that she was always standing by me, and told
                  me that she had promised Eva to take care of me. But I was afraid of her: she was
                  'as bright as the sun, as fair as the moon, and as terrible as an army in array.'
                  The books I have read, and your example—oh, husband!—I am vanquished! I give up!
                  All that you believe I believe. Take me with you into the fold of Faith, for I
                  have been like one lost in the wilderness."
               "Oh, my God!" murmured the man, almost overcome, "how can I thank Thee for this?"
                  This answer to his prayers for her was so unexpected, full and complete, that he
                  was filled with a joy akin to awe! He covered his face with his hands and bowed
                  his head, and what passed in his soul was known only to Him by whose grace
                  salvation had come to him and his household.
               "Wife, this is good news; the very best I ever heard in my life," he said at
                  last.
               "Help me, and pray for me," said Mrs. Flemming. I have been wishing to tell you,
                  but was too weak."
               "Truly are we united now, in one faith and one hope; together, dear wife, we will
                  work out our salvation; and together, I hope ere long, we, with our children, will
                  be received into the One True Fold, and partake of the Bread of Eternal Life. Oh,
                  wife! this moment foreshadows heaven!" exclaimed Wolfert Flemming, full of a
                  profound emotion in which adoration and thanksgiving were so blended that earthly
                  language could not express it
               I will leave it to you to imagine the joy of Mrs. Flemming's children when their
                  father related to them what I have related to you. Truly did they realize upon
                  earth the joy of the angels in heaven over a rescued soul!
               One day, the very day before the note fell due, Nicholas Flemming came home from
                  Wier's Landing, where he had been on an unsuccessful errand to raise money on the
                  quarry, and brought in two otters from the post-office—one for his father, and one
                  for Reuben. Eva was up stairs with her mother; Hope and Huldah Sneathen were
                  sitting together, talking and sewing by the bright firelight; Wolfert Flemming was
                  reading in his old Lutheran Bible the
                  psalms of David, while Reuben, at his side, was poring over the less exalted
                  strains of "Tommy Moore."
               "Here's a letter for you, father, and here's one for you, Ruby, from your friend,
                  Patrick McCue. How do you do, Huldah? I'd like some supper, Hope; I'm half
                  famished." It was clear that Nick was in a disagreeable humor, and Hope bestirred
                  herself to make him comfortable as quickly as possible. Huldah looked frightened,
                  but not at Nick's grimness; she was watching Wolfert Flemming as he turned the
                  letter over, held it up to the candle-light to examine the superscription, and
                  finally broke the seal and unfolded it. Something, several somethings, slipped out
                  and fluttered down upon the pages of the old Bible; very crisp and clean they
                  were, with a great deal of figuring and printing over them; but he did not heed
                  them, and went on reading the letter to the end, while a strange paleness
                  overspread his face, and his hands trembled as he held it near the light.
               "Come here, Hope," he said, "and read this aloud. I don't know: perhaps I have
                  made a mistake;" and he passed his hand over his forehead, still heedless of what
                  had fallen out of the letter. And Hope, in a sort of dumb surprise, took the
                  letter and read aloud:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR FRIEND:
                           
                           "I have been wishing to write to you for the last six weeks, but had
                              to wait for something I wanted to send. Yesterday I got it:
                              twenty-five thousand dollars, which the city of Boston has paid for a
                              lot of land they're going to build the new State House on; and I send
                              you five thousand on loan, and ask you, as a favor, to apply it to
                              that mortgage business of yours. You can pay me the interest until I
                              ask you for the principal. It will be no use to send it back, because
                              when you are reading this I shall be half way to Europe. I intend to
                              throw away the balance in having a good time while I'm abroad; so if
                              you don't take care of the five thousand for me, I shan't have a cent
                              to begin with when I get back, which won't be for three years. Give my
                              love to all the family, and ask them to think of the wanderer
                              sometimes. When you see Huldah—bless her soul!—tell her I thank her
                              for Laving written, and didn't answer her letter for the same reasons
                              given above. I have written to Ruby. With affection and respect, dear
                              Mr. Flemming.
                           
                              "I am sincerely your friend,
                              GEORGE MERILL."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Was that your secret, Huldah?" asked Nicholas, whispering over her shoulder.
               "Yes," she replied almost inaudibly.
               "Forgive me, Huldah?" he asked humbly
               "Yes," she whispered. All this was in a moment, while Hope was gathering up the
                  five bank bills, of a thousand dollars
                  each, which were scattered over the pages of the old Bible. One had fallen on the
                  floor, and the cat was playing with it
               "It is really true, then," said Wolfert Flemming, rousing himself as from a dream.
                  "Thanks be to God! thanks be to God!"
               "It's just like George Merill!" said Hope, laughing and crying.
               "Here's more," said Reuben, holding up two bank bills towards his father, while
                  his beautiful face glowed with delight. "Here, father! I told you I'd show you my
                  letter when it came. Read it out; I don't care who hears it now. Here's the money!
                  Mr. Adams paid two hundred dollars for my Peri."
               It was true. Reuben had sculptured the "disconsolate Peri waiting at heaven's
                  gate;" designed and sculptured it, and packed it and sent it two months before to
                  George Merill to sell for him; and George Merill not only sold it, but wrote the
                  most distracting things that had been said about it; and sent him several highly
                  favorable art criticisms, which he had cut from the Boston papers, in which it was
                  pronounced to be the most wonderful attempt of untaught genius that had ever been
                  seen this side of the Atlantic. I can't tell one-half of all the kind and
                  appreciative things that were said about it; but Ruby was filled with new life; he
                  knew now that he had not been idling his life away, but had been blindly working
                  out his vocation, and making much of the talent Almighty God had given him.
               "I must go up and tell my little mammy!" said the boy, so delighted and exhausted
                  that he felt as if he trod upon air. "I guess she won't want me to knit stockings
                  and churn now."
               "Reuben, my lad," said his father, while an indescribable expression of peace lit
                  up his noble face, "not to night. Mother is feeble, and all this joy might make
                  her ill again. God is very good to us, my children. Huldah, dear child, I thank
                  you for all that you have done. I could not have asked this favor of George
                  myself; but coming in this way, through you and him, I cannot refuse it,
                  particularly since I know how easy it will be for me to repay him when I begin to
                  work the quarry. I will go up and send Eva to you. Tell her—,"and Wolfert Flemming
                  left the room, his heart very full. Huldah was crying softly, her head on Nick's
                  shoulder and his arm about her waist, ready to thump his own head for ever having
                  doubted her; but before they separated that night Huldah was herself again, and
                  threatened to marry her father's partner the next day if he didn't walk very
                  straight—which he did. Eva was speechless when she heard the news. Nicholas
                  thought she would be enthusiastic, and
                  write a gushing letter that night to George Merill to come home and marry her; "it
                  was nothing more," he said "than she ought to do;" but she didn't; she only looked
                  around on them all with a pleased, happy smile, kissed Reuben, and went up to the
                  little Sanctuary of Our Lady, where she spent half the night in sweet
                  thanks-giving and communions with her, offering herself, soul and body, as her
                  handmaid and servant, to be presented as a holocaust to her Divine Son.
               That night Wolfert Flemming read the Psalm Confitemini
                     Domino,
                  *
                   at prayer time; nothing could have expressed better all that he felt;
                  nothing could have been more appropriate; and the exalted words fell from his lips
                  in deep musical tones, each heart responding to them in humble thanksgiving.
               
                  
                  *Psalm cvi.
               
               "Hope," said Nicholas that night, as they lingered in the quaint old sitting-room,
                  after the others had gone to bed; "even the old rafters look bright to-night. I
                  believe those things in the buffet are dancing a
                  jig; just see how the light from the fire darts around them. It looks as if
                  rainbows were hanging about the room. I never was so happy in my life. How jolly
                  it will be to-morrow, when mother knows what has happened. Forgive me, dear Hope—I
                  had forgotten about John Wilde," said Nick, kissing her.
               "I have not forgotten John," answered Hope, while Nick tenderly wiped the tears
                  from her cheeks. "I shall never forget him. But I am very happy. I am content. It
                  is a very sweet thing to live for others." And it did, indeed, seem so to her; and
                  no one ever heard her speak of John Wilde again; until—but I won't anticipate the
                  sequel.
               The next day, Mrs. Flemming, freshly dressed and looking much better than she had
                  done since her illness, was sitting propped up by pillows in her bed, trying to
                  knit—her fingers not much larger than jack-straws as she slowly took up the
                  stitches and threw the fine yarn over the glittering needles—when her husband
                  came, and by arrangement found her alone.
               "You feel strong to-day, mother?" he said, as he stationed himself upon the rug,
                  and with an amused expression watched her indefatigable efforts to slip back into
                  her old industrious habits.
               "I feel as chipper as that robin whistling out there by the window," she answered,
                  cheerfully. "I tell you, father, that I feel like one risen from the dead, in a
                  two-fold sense. What day of the month is it?'
               "The first of December!" he replied, watching her keenly, for he almost dreaded
                  the effects of what he had to tell her, upon her nerves.
               
               "Ah! have I been ill so long? And this is—Well, father, let the past be with the
                  past; it would seem ungrateful to fret and repine, since God has been so good and
                  merciful to us. I shall be ready very soon now to go to Ohio," she added,
                  hesitating a little at first, then speaking more blithely.
               "I don't think we shall go to Ohio just yet," he replied.
               "I should like to know! I thought it was all settled, if that money—"
               "Wife," he said, "are you strong enough to hear some good news?"
               "I guess I am. It will do me good," she replied with an expectant look.
               "Well, then, we shall not go to Ohio. We shall not be compelled to break up our
                  old home, or even to sell "Mill Farm."
               "Why! the land's-sake!" she exclaimed, dropping her hands upon the coverlid, and
                  fixing her eyes upon him with an eager alert expression in them which half
                  frightened him. "That is good news. I feel it through me! Why, father! how did it
                  come about?"
               "First through Ruby."
               "Ruby, Ruby—my baby!" she murmured softly, while a happy smile lit up her pale,
                  thin face. "Go on."
               "Yes, indeed! Your boy took to sculpturing images; and while looking round for
                  some soft kind of stone to work in, he discovered a valuable quarry of soapstone
                  at Mill farm!"
               "He did! And to think how provoked I was at him that day, when he told me he had
                  been searching for soft stone! I thought he was crazy."
               "Well, he found it, but said nothing, as he was ignorant of its great value; and
                  it was only after Cutter came the other day, to pay for the farm, that I heard a
                  word about it."
               "You have seen Cutter, then?" she inquired anxiously.
               "Yes, mother, he came back a few days ago, and brought the money to pay for it;
                  but you were ill, and I told him to come the next morning; for I knew—or I thought
                  I knew—how much depended on my getting the money for it."
               "And you didn't let him have it? Don't tell me that he got it!"
               "No, I heard about the quarry that night."
               "How in the land—?"
               "Wilbur came up here at midnight, and told m about it."
               "Wilbur!" repeated Mrs. Flemming, as if scarcely comprehending how, by any chance
                  upon earth, that shiftless, ungrateful man had got to be mixed up in their
                  affairs. Then Wolfert Flemming sat down
                  by her side and told everything that had happened, from Wilbur's midnight visit to
                  George Merill's letter; he dwelt with softened voice on Huldah's kindness,
                  informed her of Reuben's success, not omitting the smallest detail as he went on.
                  When she heard how her great bear, Nick, had served the-man-with-the-hammer, she
                  laughed out, and said "it served him right." Then he gave her George Merill's
                  letters to read, and showed her the new crisp bank bills he had sent, and asked
                  her how she felt?
               "I feel well. There's no cordial could have done me half the good that your news
                  has. Oh, husband! help me to thank God; He has been so patient and merciful." And
                  kneeling down beside her, he lifted up his voice and poured out the adoration and
                  gratitude of his soul to God for all His mercies, for all the trials wherewith
                  they had been chastened, and, above all, he thanked Him for the gift of faith
                  which had been vouchsafed to him and his household, and for giving new life,
                  spiritually and corporally, to her who, not yet risen from her bed of sickness,
                  lifted up her soul with his in genuine faith, true humility and fervent gratitude
                  unto the Giver of every good and perfect gift. The prayer tranquillized and
                  composed Mrs. Flemming; and the soft, happy tears she shed seemed brightened with
                  the bow of a new covenant, and refreshed her body as chrism refreshes and
                  strengthens the soul.
               "Now, wife, God bless you," he said, as he leant over and kissed her; "it is
                  nearly eight o'clock, and I must gallop down to Plymouth to pay that note, and
                  attend to some other business."
               "Be careful of your wallet, father. You might drop it," she said, as she gathered
                  up her knitting once more; "and send Huldah to me if she is not gone."
               "I'll be careful—depend upon that, mother," he answered, thinking how natural it
                  was to hear the cautious, thrifty nature of the little woman cropping out once
                  more. He took it as one of the best symptoms of a healthy recovery, and went on
                  his way rejoicing.
               Long and sweet was the interview between Mrs. Flemming and Huldah Sneathen; not
                  that there was the least sentimental nonsense about it, but there was genuine
                  gratitude on one hand, and a sincere, reverent affection upon the other, which,
                  fused together on that occasion, in a simple, natural way, produced a confidence
                  between the two which continued and ripened until death separated them—many, many
                  years afterwards Huldah's modest account of her management of the dairy and other
                  domestic matters which must have been utterly neglected but for her, did Mrs.
                     Flemming's thrifty heart good, and
                  brought her many healthy steps forward into the old busy ways of life When there
                  were no more questions to answer and Huldah had related every little detail which
                  she thought would please her, she said: "Huldah, I don't know how to thank you.
                  You'll make my boy a good wife—I know that—and be a comfort to father and me in
                  our old days; and I pray that God may bless and reward you as you deserve. As it
                  has turned out, it was a good thing that you wrote to George Merill—poor, dear
                  George! I always loved the boy. None of us could have done that, you know, even if
                  we had thought of it; we would have felt a sort of pride about asking such a favor
                  even of our own kin, if we had any. But I am very thankful to you, my child, and
                  don't know how the house would have got on without you." And Mrs. Flemming drew
                  Huldah's fresh young face down to her, and placing her hands upon each of the
                  girl's blooming cheeks she kissed her tenderly. "God has been good to me, child,
                  in bringing me out of the darkness of error into the light of faith," she said, as
                  she held Huldah in that soft motherly embrace; "I am now, like my husband and
                  children, a Catholic. Child! child! I am very happy and thankful! Go now; I want
                  to be quiet for a little. I must rest an hour; then you must all come up and spend
                  the rest of the day here when we will talk over everything." And when Huldah
                  lifted up her face from the motherly bosom, to go away, her cheeks were wet with
                  the first happy tears she had ever shed.
               Truly, indeed, was Mrs. Flemming a little worn out by all this excitement; but it
                  was very pleasant to lie there in her bright, quiet room, knowing that everything
                  was going on well and happily, and think of the wonderful ways of Divine
                  Providence, which had turned their sadness into joy, put a new song on their lips,
                  and delivered them from misfortune when all human aid seemed hopeless, and from
                  the bitter struggles of poverty amongst strangers. And yet everything appeared to
                  have happened in the natural order of things—even the coming of Patrick McCue on
                  the night of the storm, his leaving that book as a testimonial of his
                  gratitude—and the conversion of her husband; each event taken by itself was simple
                  and natural; there was nothing miraculous, and yet how wonderfully had the mercy
                  and love of Almighty God towards His creatures been illustrated in their regard.
                  How truly, "she thought, 'do all things work together for the good of them who
                  love and serve Him! Mrs. Flemming could make nothing of it all, humanly speaking,
                  but to feel a sweet, humble, utter dependance upon her Father in heaven, and
                  wonder in speechless surprise at her past blindness, and His infinite, unspeakable patience and mercy.
                  It was like "deep calling unto deep;" it was truly a new birth into a life full of
                  consolation and hope.
               When her children came in to her that day, they found her with a look of quiet
                  content upon her face, and a softened light in her eyes which tempered their
                  natural brightness with unwonted gentleness, and which, interpreted aright,
                  indicated the new-born humility which had had its birth in her soul. They were
                  very happy sitting around her, each one relating his or her personal experience
                  during the dark sorrowful days just past; in the midst of which Reuben, who had
                  been engaged busily with his mother's lap-board, turned it round towards them,
                  exposing to view a spirited charcoal sketch of Nick running off
                  the-man-with-the-hammer, which made them all laugh very heartily.
               "Ruby, what did you serve my board in that way for? It will have to be planed to
                  get that thing off," said Mrs. Flemming.
               "I'll scrub it, little mammy, as white as your hands. And as soon as ever you get
                  strong enough I'm going to fetch up loads of that soft stone for you to stuff your
                  pillows with!" he answered, giving his sketch a few additional touches to complete
                  it. Then he kissed his mother, who had been watching him fondly, and set the board
                  upon her bureau for his father to see when he got back.
               "I can't understand Ruby," said Mrs. Flemming after he went out; "he is a perfect
                  riddle to me, and will be as long as he lives. But I admire to see him looking so
                  bright and well. I shouldn't wonder if it was the cool, bracing weather that has
                  made him strong again." It was not the cold, bracing weather that had improved
                  Reuben's health, but the fact that his genius was acknowledged and approved; that
                  his vocation was decided upon; that he had made a successful beginning, and that a
                  career was before him which he determined, if life were spared him, should fulfill
                  all his most ambitious aspirations. This it was which gave elasticity to his
                  steps, which made the young blood leap with the strong impetus of hope through his
                  veins, and imparted new life and strength to his being. Mrs. Flemming did not
                  comprehend this; it was not in her nature to understand or appreciate the utility
                  of any profession which had not for its aim some practical advantage or use; but
                  she did not oppose him, later, when with his father's consent and generous
                  assistance he went away, to be gone for years, to study and work in Rome. She only
                  said "it was a pity, and a great waste of time, in her opinion. He might have
                  chosen some more useful occupation; and she couldn't see how it would end." Then
                  she hung about his neck, smoothed back his wild golden hair for the last time, kissed him, blessed
                  him, and let him go, sad to think he was so glad to be gone.
               
               As soon as ever Mrs. Flemming was strong enough to travel, the Old Homestead was
                  closed, and the farm matters left in care of the man who had been working there
                  many years, and his sister, who took charge of the dairy and other affairs
                  belonging to the feminine department of the establishment—and all the family went
                  to Boston. Wolfert Flemming had written to Patrick McCue of his intention; and the
                  first object they saw when the stage drew up in front of the office was the gaunt
                  figure of the good Irishman, his face beaming with delight, and his big hands
                  outstretched to welcome them and help them down. He had a carriage waiting for
                  them, and when they were all packed in it he mounted the box with the driver and
                  conducted them to a nice boarding-house near the cathedral, where he had engaged
                  rooms for them; and having introduced them to the landlady and seen them
                  comfortably settled, he drove back to the stage-office for their baggage. His joy
                  and delight at meeting with his friends defies description, and I leave it to your
                  imagination. I should be glad to tell you of some of the remarkable things he said
                  and did, which were so full of deep earnest feeling, of fun and devotion and
                  pathos all mixed together, that the Flemmings, though not given to such emotion
                  laughed and cried at the same time. His last acts of love that night were to go
                  and inform the Bishop of the arrival of the converts, and to spend an hour in the
                  cathedral before the Altar of Our Lady to implore her favor and patronage for
                  them. He was with them betimes the next morning, to show them the way to the
                  cathedral to assist at the Bishop's Mass, and afterwards conduct them into his
                  presence.
               The good Bishop received Wolfert Flemming and his family with friendly welcome and
                  great emotion; and, after a long conversation with them, was consoled as well as
                  astonished to find that these people, who until then had never seen a Catholic
                  priest in all their lives, were so thoroughly instructed in Catholic doctrine and
                  dogma as to be perfectly prepared even then to receive the Sacraments.*
                   On that day they went to confession, or rather began their confession;
                  after which they were conditionally baptized—that is, Wolfert Flemming and his
                  wife; their children never having received the rite, now received it in all its
                  sacramental fulness. It would be simply impossible to describe the solemn joy, the
                  blissful content, the deep humility and fervent faith that animated the souls of
                  our converts;
                     
                     *A literal fact.
                   they seemed to enter a
                  new life, on a new earth and under a new heaven!
               It appeared so natural—and yet how strange—this actual beginning of the chief
                  business of their souls! To place themselves in the presence of Almighty God and
                  examine the records of their conscience, to "search Jerusalem with lamps," to hunt
                  the "little foxes that destroy the vines," to enter the tribunal of penance and
                  confess their sins; to receive absolution, in the firm faith that what was "loosed
                  upon earth was also loosed in heaven," was a grave, practical, real
                  affair to them, in comparison with which all temporal business seemed to sink into
                  utter nothingness. It was the immortal grasping the eternal; their initiation into
                  Christ's kingdom; the beginning of the means by which they were to work out their
                  salvation. And these clearheaded, simple-minded, intelligent people felt and
                  understood the full significance of that which they were doing, in all its broad
                  spiritual meaning. Their reason was satisfied; they comprehended the meaning of
                  faith in their own experience, and the necessity of good works as the fruits of
                  faith; they accepted with joy all the ceaseless responsibilities of a spiritual
                  life, courageously determined, with God's help, to "work out their salvation with
                  fear and trembling;" and placing themselves under the protection of the Mother of
                  Jesus, they implored her aid, and humbly rejoiced in the faith whose consolations
                  were "full measure, pressed together and running over." There was nothing left for
                  them to desire, nothing incomplete, nothing imperfect or meaningless in this holy
                  religion into whose fold they were led; and, if they had the grace and courage to
                  persevere to the end, then—then heaven itself would be their eternal reward.
               Midnight, Christmas eve, and the Bishop in his rich pontifical robes at the altar!
                  Innumerable lights glittered among the fair, fragrant hot-house flowers and
                  luxuriant evergreens that covered it. Around the shrine of the "Blessed amongst
                  women and her Divine Babe," clustered spotless lilies, and roses as lovely as the
                  roses of Sharon: spangled between, wherever one could be placed, with twinkling
                  lights! Fair image of peace and holiness! well may thy children, with simple,
                  loving hearts, decorate thy shrine with all that is lovely, to celebrate that
                  wonderful night when, through thee, God was reconciled with man by the birth of
                  His only-begotten Son! Neither gems from the sea, nor gold from the mine, nor
                  frankincense nor myrrh, could make a memorial worthy of thee, who reignest in
                  heaven, thy home and reward; but thou acceptest the intention of thy children,
                  whom thou lovest and pitiest with a mother's tender affection; thy ears are
                  attentive to their lowest whispers; and for the honor which they pay thee for the sake of thy
                  beloved Son, thou bestowest upon them blessings and graces exceeding their timid
                  requests!—ever ready, ever swift to obtain from Him the fruits of His Passion for
                  those for whom He suffered!
               But this is the glorious night on which thou didst heal the deadly wound inflicted
                  by Eve upon man-kind, by giving birth to the Saviour, God's only-begotten Son!—and
                  thy children have not forgotten thee! They are poor and humble, but they have
                  tried to make thee some slight amends for the poverty and needs of that bitter
                  night in the stable at Bethlehem, by offering their hearts in which to cradle thy
                  Divine Son; by offering their service to thee, as thy handmaids and servants, by
                  doing all now that they would have done then, had they been with thee beside the
                  manger! The world can never forget thee, O sinless Mother! and in looking upon
                  this spectacle so long and faithfully celebrated by the Church, it halts in its
                  headlong career to gaze upon thy beauty and think of thy wonderful Son the
                  Man-God, who was crucified for its salvation; and, half believing, turns away with
                  softened heart, and bears in its hidden thoughts the memory of thee, O sweet Maid
                  of Nazareth!—a memory, which, times without number, brings the sinful and erring
                  in humble penitence to the feet of thy Beloved, whose face thou beholdest
                  forever!
               The cathedral was crowded with the humble poor; there were none of any other class
                  in those days in Boston who were members of the One True Fold. The congregation
                  was like that which adored Jesus in the arms of His Mother in the stable at
                  Bethlehem, bidden thither from the hills by angel messengers! Their faith was the
                  same, and they had also for their consolation JESUS and MARY.
               In a pew in front of the sanctuary knelt the Flemming's, their souls clothed in
                  the newness and brightness of baptismal innocence, and as fair as the angels who
                  guarded the tabernacle where the Lord, under the veil of bread, reposed. They
                  awaited in almost rapt expectation for the moment when He would come to them their
                  food and their guest.
               The Gloria in excelsis pealed from the organ in
                  notes of solemn joy, the words borne upwards by voices of strange power and
                  sweetness; the Credo was chanted in loud
                  sonorous tones, as if inviting all the world to listen; then followed the
                  Offertory, when the Bishop, in a low voice, offered the bread and wine, which by
                  the power of Almight God, and the words of consecration, would soon be changed
                  into the real body and blood of His Son. In low, sweet, tremulous notes, the organ
                  breathed its music as the unbloody Sacrifice went on; then it burst forth again in
                  stately melody at the Preface, increasing creasing in power and sweetness until it poured out all of its harmony at the
                  grand and tremendous moment of consecration, when bread was no longer bread, but
                  the true, real, living Body, Humanity and Divinity of Jesus Christ: which all
                  present, with lively faith, adored as the Bishop elevated the host which veiled
                  His glory, as His Humanity once veiled His divinity upon earth.
               I dare not attempt to describe what passed in the souls of our converts on this
                  occasion; the pen of an angel only could portray the sweet and heavenly
                  consolations vouchsafed to their faith! The long hoped for moment at length came;
                  and they went forward as they saw others do, and knelt at the sanctuary
                  railing—father, mother, daughters and sons together. When the good Bishop
                  approached where they knelt, he recognized them, and tears of consolation rolled
                  over his cheeks and glittered among the golden embroidery of his vestments, as he
                  administered to them the Bread of Eternal Life.
               Patrick McCue was of the greatest assistance to Wolfert Flemming, in making
                  inquiries, and finding out and introducing him to persons who were able to give
                  him information as to the best method of working his quarry. He hired laborers and
                  bought machinery to take back with him; but by this time the soapstone quarry got
                  to be talked about, and at last written about in the daily papers; for this soft
                  magnesian stone, for which there was an unlimited demand, was scarce—and the
                  prospect of a supply which would be able to meet it created quite an excitement,
                  which brought Wolfert Flemming into personal intercourse with a rich capitalist
                  who made him such fair and equitable offers that they entered into partnership,
                  which continued during their lifetime to their mutual satisfaction.
               Every morning found the Flemmings at the Bishop's Mass; their afternoons were
                  devoted to seeing all that was of interest to intelligent minds like theirs;
                  sunset found them again in the cathedral, resting their souls in sweet
                  contemplation and humble prayers. These moments were very precious to them; in
                  them they realized all the spiritual depths and sweetness of that holy religion
                  which even the most liberal-minded of the sects regard as a cold, senseless
                  formula! Contrasted with their former narrow belief, how grand, how sublime, how
                  holy was this faith into which they had been thus providentially led! It supplied
                  every need of their souls; it had a consolation for every fear; it was, indeed and
                  in truth, the "substance of things hoped for" unto them.
               They went back to the Old Homestead full of the joy of a new life, united in faith
                  as they had ever been in affection, and looked back on their past, with its trials
                  and sorrows, as the traveller standing
                  upon the verdant flowery glades of Goshen gazes out into the parched arid desert
                  he has just passed—the desert where the sirocco blasts, and the false, fleeting
                  mirage; deludes the unwary with its bright mockery.
               
               Rome, and sunset on the Pincian hill. Two young men—Americans—are wandering—in
                  different directions, about the beautiful gardens, listening now to the music, now
                  pausing to watch the dancers, now following a picturesque group of contadina; one of them stopped to admire the diamond
                  sparkles of a fountain which tossed its spray like a libation into the golden,
                  rose-tinted haze of evening; the other paused upon the terrace which overhangs the
                  Piazza del Popolo, and looked down with sad, thoughtful eyes on the obelisk and
                  fountains below; then his gaze wandered out beyond the purple masses of domes and
                  cupolas, beyond the shadow-wrapped Mausoleum of Hadrian, beyond the pearl-white
                  mists rising from the Tiber, towards the golden West. About the same moment they
                  both started to leave the gardens. The gay crowds were going; why should they
                  remain? Walking quickly from opposite directions, they came against each other
                  with such impetus that they were near falling to the ground.
               "I beg your pardon!" said the younger, with a light, merry laugh.
               "Hilloa!" exclaimed the other, emerging from the cloud of dust their collision had
                  raised.
               "Hilloa, too!" shouted the first, holding out both hands, which his companion
                  grasped and shook heartily.
               "John Wilde!—where in the mischief—"
               "George Merill!—where in the world—"
               "What brought you here, John?"
               "Where have you been, George? You look like a Bedouin?"
               "I feel like one. Come let us go and sit under the laurels by the fountain and
                  have a good, sensible New-England talk."
               "Now, tell me when you left home?" said John Wilde, as they settled themselves
                  upon a stone seat under the laurels, where the misty spray of the fountain was
                  occasionally blown against their cheeks.
               "Two years ago. For the last six months I have been exploring the Nile, and trying
                  my best to unriddle the Sphynx; but she made no sign, and I got sick of it and
                  came to Rome to rest. I arrived only this morning, little expecting to find an old
                  friend before night."
               Then they fell to talking over their travels and adventures; and as the twilight
                  deepened around them, and the stars
                  looked down out of the purple heavens, thoughts of their far-off home in the
                  western world came fluttering into their hearts like doves flying home to their
                  cotes; and they questioned each other as to the latest news.
               "I got a letter some months ago from my mother," said John Wilde, dropping his
                  voice; "a letter full of strange news about the Flemmings. I suppose you have
                  heard all about their good fortune. I was heartily glad."
               "Yes, I heard about that streak of good luck, or rather I read of it in a Boston
                  paper which my agent sent me. I get nothing but papers from home; nobody writes to
                  me that I care to hear from. My grandfather writes, but his letters are such
                  doleful sermons on the subject of my unconverted state and total depravity that I
                  don't take the trouble to read them. I should have committed suicide long ago, if
                  I had been foolish enough to have taken them to heart. I got one letter from
                  Huldah Sneathen about the time you speak of."
               Both were silent for a little while; busy memories were crowding into their minds,
                  fraught with sadness and full of the ghosts of their love's young dreams.
               "My mother wrote me word that Hope Flemming had gone to be a nun," said John Wilde
                  at last.
               "That's a mistake, John. Huldah told me all about it. She ought to have known, for
                  she was with them in Boston, when—well—it was Eva who went to be a nun or a Sister
                  of Charity, or something of that sort," answered George Merill.
               "George, are you certain? are you quite sure?" asked John Wilde, eager and
                  excited.
               "Of course I am sure. I remember the very name she has taken. She is now Sister
                  Monica. There's no mistake in its being Eva. I should remember; for you know,
                  John, how I loved Eva Flemming, and it's not likely that I should forget anything
                  concerning her," replied George Merill sadly.
               "When my mother wrote, the family were in Boston, and the news came to her through
                  Miss Debby Wyatt, who no doubt had it second hand from some one else who was
                  misinformed," answered John Wilde, whose heart was beating quickly and
                  joyfully.
               It was growing dark, and the young men rose to go. Arm-in-arm, they walked slowly
                  down the steep road, talking as if they had not another day to live. Crossing the
                  Piazza del Popolo, they strolled on, scarcely knowing or caring whither, when they
                  suddenly heard the musical tinkling of a little bell, and saw a procession bearing
                  lighted candles coming towards them. From every window on each side the street was held lighted candles those
                  who held them kneeling devoutly. On the sidewalks, all uncovered and knelt; and
                  upon the air arose, with the faint odor of incense, the solemn Tantum ergo, in grave musical numbers.
               "Let us get out of the way of that," said George Merill.
               "Rather let us keep in the way of it," answered John Wilde, as the procession drew
                  nearer. He uncovered his head and knelt, while George Merill hid himself under the
                  shadow of a deep, arched doorway until it got past. "What is it all, and what does
                  it mean?" he inquired.
               "The priest is carrying the Holy Viaticum to a dying person," replied John Wilde;
                  "and if you'll excuse me, George, I'll go with them. Later I'll come to your
                  lodgings."
               "John, tell me one thing; are you a Roman Catholic?" asked George Merill, standing
                  before his friend and looking fixedly at him.
               "I am, thank God," was the reply.
               "Well! I suppose it's a good thing, old fellow. I'd as hef be a Catholic as
                  anything else, I guess; but I don't much believe in anything, except my actual
                  existence. I'm at the English hotel in the Piazza di Spagna, and shall wait up for
                  you," And George Merill, light-hearted, careless, and looking upon all religions,
                  irrespective of creed or dogma, as systems good enough in their way for bettering
                  the moral condition of mankind, made a detour
                  and wended his way towards his lodgings; while John Wilde, hastily purchasing a
                  wax candle from a shop near by, lighted it and fell into the procession, and
                  accompanied it to the house of the dying, whose soul, trembling on the borders of
                  time, was only waiting to be strengthened with the "life-giving Bread," as it
                  passed through the shadow of death into the presence of Him who declared that
                  "whoever eat of this Bread should have eternal life."
               
               "Now tell me, John, if you please, how it happens that you are a Catholic?" asked
                  George Merill that night, as they both sat in the balcony overlooking the old
                  deserted piazza, talking, and smoking cigars of so choice a brand that the air was
                  fragrant around them. This was one of George Merill's special and dearly-prized
                  luxuries, which John Wilde felt no compunction in sharing.
               "Don't expect to hear anything marvellous, George. My conversion was a very
                  gradual and simple business. Before I left home I read 'Milner's End of
                  Controversy,' and other Catholic books, solely to find out Hope's reasons for
                  becoming a Catholic. I was impressed more than I would own up to; but I wasn't
                  prepared to believe all that I read, or sacrifice my worldly interests terests either; and so I told Hope;
                  and, as you know, she thought it best for the happiness of both, differing so
                  widely in religious belief as we did, to break off our engagement, almost on the
                  very eve of our wedding day. I tell you, George, it came near ruining me, body and
                  soul; it was the bitterest trial I ever had, or ever expect to have; and my faith
                  in God was shaken to its foundations. Then I determined to go abroad, and endeavor
                  to forget my hopeless love, in foreign travel among strange scenes. But it was no
                  use. The violence of my emotions simply died out—nothing more; and as a sort of
                  calm succeeded, I begin to think over the books I had read, and the conversations
                  I had had with Hope and her father. You see; the seed was planted,
                  and I all unconscious of it! About this time I formed the acquaintance of a young
                  Englishman, on board a steamer, on his way to Rome. He was of noble birth and
                  large estate—I learned that afterwards from another—but after his conversion he
                  resigned his rank and fortune, except so much, which was to be annually expended
                  for the poor, and determined to enter the Society of Jesus and devote his life to
                  the service of God. I knew nothing of his history then; but it happened one day
                  that I was able to do him a little service when he was quite ill, for which he was
                  very grateful, and his reserve melted away like frost under the sunshine shine. He
                  was very fragile, and often reminded me of Reuben Flemming. His intellect was
                  highly cultivated, and his natural gifts were wonderful. As we grew more and more
                  attached to each other. I found out his religion: then we began to discuss the
                  subject, and at last we talked of nothing else. We journeyed to Rome together; he
                  entered the novitiate at the Gesù, then I saw him only occasionally. One day,
                  towards the close of Lent, on Friday, I went to the Coliseum to see the
                  "stations." He, with other scholastics from the Gesù, was there. I got as near him
                  as I could, hoping to exchange a few words with him on ourway back; when I saw him
                  suddenly grow very white, a stream of blood gushed from his lips and he fell into
                  my arms unconscious. I got permission to visit him every day while he lived; he
                  lived long enough, George, to prevail with me, by God's grace; and the day on
                  which he received the Holy Viaticum, I received at the same time, in his presence,
                  the Bread of Life. Independent of the profound joy I experienced in this, my first
                  Communion, it was something very like heaven to see the angelic smile that
                  irradiated his dying countenance as he watched me; to feel the faint, loving clasp
                  of his cold fingers, and hear him whisper as he kissed me: "Well done! well done!"
                  They were his last words; in another moment my friend and brother was at rest.
                     I staid on in Rome. Somehow I could
                  not bear to leave the spot where I had been so blessed: where I had found a balm
                  which consecrated my trials, and gave me strength to look out into life with a
                  firm, healthful purpose. I could not bear to leave the hallowed grave of my
                  friend, out of whose death my soul had risen into a new life. It was a sacred tie
                  which bound me to the earth where he reposed. Since I had heard the news about
                  Hope Flemming there seemed to be nothing to take me home; and after my conversion
                  I had still less desire to return. Until to-night, I believed that she had
                  consecrated herself to Almighty God in a religious life."
               "No; it was Eva, John. Be sure of that," said George Merill sadly.
               "To-morrow I shall start for home," continued John Wilde. "There is no obstacle
                  now to prevent Hope's fulfilling her engagement with me, unless she has changed
                  her mind."
               "She hasn't changed her mind, John; depend upon that. I congratulate you, old
                  fellow; upon my soul, I do," exclaimed George Merill, with hearty sincerity. "Here
                  you are settled in the matter of religion, which is a good thing to begin with;
                  and you will go back and more than realize the hopes which you thought were dead
                  and buried. You are a lucky fellow!" he said, with a sigh, which he tried to
                  smother under a laugh.
               "Thank you, George. I am not so sure about Hope Flemming; but I shall go back and
                  see what awaits me," answered John Wilde, rising to go.
               Then they parted, with a warm, friendly grasping of the hands, kind, brave words,
                  and promises to write to each other frequently; John Wilde thanking God in his
                  heart of hearts for the fair promise of the future; George Merill sorrowful and
                  lonely, and half believing in Fate.
               
               I have, really, but little more to tell; but my narrative will be incomplete
                  unless I tell that little. If you remember the last time Nick Flemming came back
                  from "The Pines," he told his father that "he believed everything was going to
                  smash up there, through the mismanagement of the Deacon's partner and too much
                  praying." He was not mistaken in his prediction; for soon afterwards there was a
                  strike among the lumbermen, which the "man gifted in prayer" felt to some purpose;
                  for, enraged at his petty tyrannies and disgusting hypocrisy, furious at an effort
                  he made to curtail their wages and still further restrict their privileges, they
                  fell upon him one night and gave him a beating which bruised every bone in his
                  body. The next morning he had vanished—gone off with the Deacon's money—some eight
                  thousand dollars, which he had drawn from time to time under the pretext of using it to buy machinery and materials
                  for the construction of the steam saw-mill, which up to this time had not risen
                  more than two feet above the foundation. Everything was found to be in a terrible
                  snarl at "The Pines," and the business seemed ruined forever. The Deacon took it
                  very hard. Altogether, the loss, the mortification and the worry agitated him and
                  put his blood in such a ferment, that by the time he managed to get all the
                  details of the affair into his head with a clear idea of the situation, he found
                  it more than he could stand, and had an attack of apoplexy, which terminated
                  fatally.
               Huldah and Nicholas were soon afterwards married by a young clergyman whom the
                  Flemmings were honored in having for their guest. The young man—just ordained—had
                  fallen into such a precarious state of health, that with the Bishop's consent, and
                  by the advice of his medical man, he accepted the invitation of Wolfert Flemming,
                  who was in Boston at the time, to return home with him to spend the summer months
                  in the bracing, life-restoring air of the New Hampshire hills. The wedding was a
                  very quiet one, and the young couple went to house-keeping in the old brown
                  cottage under the elms where Huldah was born. She became a convert to the Catholic
                  faith, which shed such a halo of pure happiness throughout her whole being that
                  she was more cheerful and blithe than ever; this, with her thrifty, industrious
                  habits, and real intelligence, made her husband's home a very happy and attractive
                  one. Miss Debby lived on with them—Huldah's cross, which she bore with sweet
                  patience and pity for the lonely, dependent woman, who let her know without
                  reserve "that she felt herself disgraced and demeaned by being obliged to live
                  with Papists." Nothing softened her: no attention or kindness could sweeten her
                  bitter nature, and she grumbled and fretted and found fault to the end of the
                  chapter, affording Huldah daily, and sometimes hourly, occasions of merit which
                  were not lost to her. The business at "The Pines," under Nicholas Flemming's
                  management, became gradually more prosperous than ever. Spiritually and
                  temporally, they were blessed beyond all their imaginings, and never ceased giving
                  thanks to Almighty God, whose providence had directed all things so mercifully for
                  them.
               It was not long after Nick's marriage when John Wilde came home, nor many days
                  after his arrival that Hope Flemming had occasion to unlock the old cedar chest,
                  in which three years before she had folded away her bridal trousseau, her tears dropping heavily upon the white,
                     transparent, beautiful garments, as
                  if she had laid a dearly loved face, on which she was never to look upon again, in
                  its coffin. But now I can say no more than that there was great happiness and soon
                  a Catholic wedding in the Old Homestead.
               Do you remember the quaint old Puritan room which I described so particularly in
                  the first chapter, its rafters black with age and the breath of Puritan
                  generations who had lived and prayed under them, its floors dark and polished
                  beneath the tread of their feet? Can you imagine the stern prayers that used to be
                  uttered there to be defended against the Pope and idolatry; and the councils that
                  used to be held there over the fate of unfortunate Catholics who had the temerity
                  to trust themselves to their mercy; and the righteous "amen" uttered, when
                  "hanging" or "branding," was determined on.
               Now behold! At one end of the room, in front of the tiled fireplace, which was
                  concealed by boughs of cedar, stood a temporary altar decorated with lights and
                  flowers. There was a costly crucifix upon it, which John Wilde brought from
                  abroad—a genuine Benvenuto Cellini, the dealer had assured him; and at the foot of
                  the crucifix a quaint old chalice, which Father H—— had found among the antique
                  treasures of silver and gold in the buffet which
                  the Dutch ancestors of the Flemmings had taken, with other rich spoils, from some
                  Spanish galleon which they afterwards sunk. It was a sacramental cup; the
                  inscription and the devices upon it were unmistakable, and now it was to be put
                  once more to the holy use for which it was fashioned. Father —— celebrated the
                  bridal Mass; all the family—and Patrick McCue, an honored guest—being present;
                  also the Wilburs, who thought it the finest show they had ever seen. Truly was
                  that feast of the Bread of Eternal Life, which the Flemmings and Patrick McCue
                  partook of that fair summer morning with John Wilde and his bride, a holy and
                  happy one! Eva, far away in her novitiate in the beautiful valley of St. Joseph's,
                  offered her Communion in spirit with theirs, and prayed for the happiness,
                  temporal and eternal, of her dear ones at home. Mrs. Wilde's heart was half broken
                  at her son's conversion, and she declined being present at the wedding; indeed, it
                  was more than a year before she consented to see him or his wife. But a little
                  girl was born to them, which they named for her; and that vanquished her, then she
                  was very happy, and ashamed of herself. One day John was unpacking a box which
                  George Merill had sent him from China. He took out a rich silk robe, such as are
                  worn by mandarins darins of the first
                  class, and he and Hope were examining it, when Mrs. Wild came in with her chubby
                  namesake in her arms.
               "Goodsakes, John!" she exclaimed, "is that the dress you wear when you go to
                     Mass?"*
                   It was the first reference she had ever made to his religion, and it was
                  too much for him; he shouted with laughter, and was tempted to tell her "yes," but
                  didn't. But it broke the ice; and from time to time after that they had many talks
                  about the Catholic religion and its doctrines. Mrs. Wilde, now very old, and
                  waiting any hour for the coming of death, is prepared with the best dispositions
                  to be received into the Church as soon as Father H——, who is expected from Boston,
                  arrives.
                     
                     *This question was really asked.
                  
               Soon after Hope's wedding, she noticed one day that the portrait of old Lady
                  Pendarvis was hanging in the "best room," with a wreath of evergreen and immortelles around it.
               "Why, mother, who did this?" she asked in surprise.
               "I did, Hope. Lady Pendarvis was a Catholic."
               "And you knew it all the time?"
               "Yes, and I should have been glad to burn it up any day, once, for that very
                  reason; but she looked too much like Ruby."
               "Dear Ruby!" said Hope, looking dreamily at the picture, while her thoughts were
                  far away in the atelier of the now famous artist. Dear Ruby! how glad I shall be
                  to see him! Why, mother, the papers say that some of the things he has made are
                  equal to the antiques, and he has more orders than he can execute; and honors are
                  conferred upon him constantly by royal personages. I'm very proud of him."
               "Well! it seems a very useless sort of a business to me. I can't see the good of
                  it; and never could. But he's happy; and I try to be content," said Mrs. Flemming,
                  brushing a tear from her cheeks.
               
               The Wilburs staid on at Mill farm; and Wilbur is now Wolfert Flemming's factor,
                  and one of the thriving men of the neighborhood. The Flemmings live among
                  themselves, still avoided, and their prosperity envied by their Puritan friends.
                  The old Puritan bitterness is not dead; but it is more feeble, and slowly dying
                  out in staunch, brave New England; and it is safe to believe that upon the soil
                  where men have suffered for the faith in the old Puritan times—where in our own
                  day a convent has been burnt*
                   to the ground, and a holy
                     priest*
                   tarred and feathered and almost murdered by fanatical mobs-the Church will
                  grow and flourish—nay, even now in some parts it is growing and flourishing, "like
                  a tree hard by living waters."
               
                  
                  *Ursuline Convent at Charlestown.
               
               
                  
                  *Father Bapst, S. J.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
