
    ----CITATION----
        Sparkle, Sophie.. Sparkles from Saratoga .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6718
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Sparkles from Saratoga
             
                  SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA BY SOPHE SPARKLE. ILLUSTRATED. NEW YORK: AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY. 1873.     Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1873, by THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.    II.-THE RIVER, . . . . . .  13 'F,4  -ON THE PIAZZA          17 :     II.--THE RIVER,          I 3  IV.-JANUARY AND MAY, . .  . .  25 V.-MAKING HAY, ..  .  .  .  30 ., VI;-THE WIDOW DASH, . .  .  . 36 57 VI.-LE BEA MONDE,  .  . .  . .43 VIII.-THE MASQUERADE, . -. . .  50. IX.-FORTUNE-HUNTERS,  .  . .  . 57 X.-"THE GOOD OLD TIMES," .    65 XI.-IN THE PARK, ... 73 ,::   XII.-THE GEYSER SPRING, .  .    79 XIII.-AFTER DINNER, . .  .    85 -'  XIV.-ADONIS AT THE BALL, . .   .  91 :;  XV.-MSS AIRS,  . .  . .97 XV.- THE SARATOGA DROOP," .  .  105 -:  XVII.-A RAINY DAY,  . .      I. . 1 - :{ XVIII.-OLD BACHELORS, .  .   . 117 XIX.-THE BELLES,          . 125 XX.-SNUBBING,           135 XXI.-AMON THE LIONS,   . . .   46 -? : XXII.-Buzz,   .  .  . .. 1 1 r'153 -1:  XXIII.-FLIRTATIONS, .  . .    6o  1 s s  XII-L   AHLOS      CONTENTS. PAGE XXIV.-WIDOWERS, .  .    .    167 XXV.-A BACHELOR'S TRUNKS,    .   1 74 XXVI.-THE TOURNAMENT, .     .  o 80 XXVII.-THE RACES,  .  . .    .  . I86 XXVIII.-PLYING THE NEEDLE,  . . .   193 XXIX.-HNTS TO HUSBANDS,   .   .  . 201 XXX.-ALL ABOUT BONNETS,   .   . 210 XXXI.-A NOVEL DREAM,    .     . 225 XXXII.-SUNDAY AT TIE SPRINGS,  . .  232 XXXIII.-A DUEL, .   . .  .  .   238 XXXIV.-AMONG THE LILIES,   .     245 XXXV.--THE FLUSH OF THE LEAF,  .  . 253 XXXVI.-DEPARTURES,  .  .  . .    261 XXXVII.-THE ADIRONDACKS,   . .. 269 XXXVIII.-A MORNING RAMBLE,   . '  .  275 XXXIX.-ADIEUX, .   .     . .  . 282 XL.-LAKE GEORGE, .  .    . .  287 XLI.-FORT TICONDEROGA,  .  .  .  297 XLII.-NIAGARA FALLS, .  .  . .  .306 XLIII.-BRASS BUTTONS,  .    .  . 318 XLIV.--"EYES RIGHT,"   .    .  330 XLV.-FAREWELL!  .  .  ..  ..   334   "ST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. THE WIDOW DASH,  .   . .  .  .  , THE GEYSER SPIING, .  .  D. . li/chcock. ARRAYED FOR THE BALL, . . .   .  Luzsk. Miss AIRS, . .  .      i att Afora. MAKING REPAIRS, .  .        .. R. Lusk. THE HATHORN SPRING, . .   D. C. Hifchcock. THE BACHELOR'S TRUNK, .   . .   . Lsk. AMONG THE LILIES, . . .    .  . s THE. EXCELSTOR SPRING,  .    . . D . C. Hiflccock. \ "       Does the wine our goblets gleam. in; With hue as red as the rosy bed Which a bee would choose to dream in. Then drink to-night, with hearts as light, To loves as gay as fleeting, As bubbles that swim, in the beakers' brim, And part on the lips when meeting." CHARLES FENNO HOFFMAN.       SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. I.  MANAGING A HUSBAND. IF there be one thing more exasperating than another in this wicked worldl it is surely an ob- durate man! And the worst of it is, that most men are painfully afflicted in this manner. For six mor- tal weeks have Madge and I besieged papa to allow us to spend the sumnmer season at that Mecca of fashionable pilgrims-Saratoga. But the dearm' -all, from some unaccountable reason, absolutely refused. Nevertheless, being mzere Vwomem, we never take "no" for an answer, and set about makiing the necessary preparations, such as ordering new dresses, and reconsidering old ones, while mamma under- took the task of managing her refractory lord and master! Husbands usually require but a little skilful, feminine manoauvring to macke thein walk in the desired path, and if ever a woman had the art of     G 6  SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. managing a husband at the tip of her fingers' ends, or, still more effectually, at the tip of her tongue, that woman is certainly mamma.   Madge and I had cthe utmost faith in her ultimate success; and in proof that we were right in placing a high estimate upon her virtues as a coaxer, here we are fairly in Saratoga at last, with Aunt Prim for a duenna. It may be whispered that we would have preferred mamma in this interesting rdle, since she has a way of viewing things blandly through her dear old spectacles, while Aunt Prim sees the world quite differently with her eye-glasses. A peep through Aint Prim's gold-rimmed orbs appears to have the effect of casting a little cloud over everything; of sprinkling all the sweet roses of life with drops of vinegar-dew. This is Madge's first season out, and Aunt Prim will have enough to do in polishing down lier boarding-school ways, and preventing her from shocking the fastidious world with her outrJ extrav- agraces. Madge evidently has no genius for fash- ionable conventialities; she opens her black eyes wide at everything new or strange; claps her little hands with delight when she 'is pleased; is a little-thun- der-storir of the blackest variety when she is angry; and, moreover, says just what she thinks to every-   MANhAGING A HUSBAND.      7 body; which latter folly would surely amaze the philosopher who said that "words are intended to conceal our thoughts."' As for myself, two years in society are qu ite sufficient to cure one of all such nonsense, and I feel prepared to meet any event with the utmlost sacng froidc. In fact, there is nothing like sailing through life with a placid air; nothincg like pre- serving one's equanimity despite the fact that the world turns upside down every twenty-foulr hoirs. Aunt Prim herself is not more staid in her deport- ment than her " paragon niece," as she is pleased to call me. And now that we are safely ensconced ill a charming room which overlooks Congress Spring and its shady park, we have time to reflect upon the little journey we have just made, and to laugh again over its anusing incidents. There was the boat crowded with pleasure-seek- ers; there was the pleasant-looking matron with five fair daughters; and there the haughty belle who smiled a sweet adieu to an admirer who re- quested her to think of him while she was gone, and, when the poor fellow had made his 'last bow, she turned to her companion with her beantfilfl lip curled in scorn, and exclaimed: rlTh;nk of ]hi-t!     8     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. I guess I have something else to think of. What conceited beings these men are!" There also was the elderly gentleman with two daughters, who created much amusement by his odd comments and remarks. The daughters were fash- ionably dressed girls, evidently just from board- ing-school. Papa was just as evidently not accus- tomed to the polite usages of society, but had the air and look of a sea-faring man with plenty of money. I declare,'" said this Cpater fittmilacs "1 you gals are more trouble to me than all my money. Just as if York wasn't good enough for you; but you must go philandering off to Saratogy, just to make a show of those frillamagigs you've wasted a month over. I tell you what, you don't fool your pa with this kind of nonsense much longer." A short pause. "Sarah Jane, where's your gloves?" "In my pocket,' replies Sarah Jane. That's the bst place for 'em, and Polly, if you'd just put those rats and mice you've tacked on to your head in the same place, you'd show that you had inherited some common-sense at least from As might be expected, poor Polly's cheeks were   MANAGING A HUSBAND.       9 suffused with painful blushes at this unexpected disclosure of the falseness of her puffs and curls. But young people nowadays are not overblessed with reverence, and so Polly soon recovered from her confusion, and gently replied: "Now, pa, if you'd take out those teeth you bought at Dr. Hadden's last week, you wouldn't talk so plainly.' Pa's vivacity subsided at this, land lie buried himself in his evening paper. Aunt Prim managed to secure a state-room, while Madge and I were obliged to content ourselves with berths in the ladies' cabin. There were three in a tier-one for Madlge, one for myself, and the third, which was tie upper berth, was allotted to an enormously stout lady. The stout lady looked at her check which bore the number 25, and then at the berth which bore the same number, with evident disniay. How was she to reach that elevated couchl? I; was too nmuch to ask of any mortal of her ample proportions! "Yours truly "' having secured the berth below, looked at the stout lady also in a state of dismay. Good Heavens! Timber and upllholstery are not equal to everything, and what if that berth shouldl   .   *     10     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. givp way beneath the fat lady, and bury "yours truly" in oblivion? The mere thought of such a mishap caused a cold shudder. Tlhe only resource was to offer the fat lady the lower couch, which she gratefully accepted. Now I cannot see why people object to upper berths. My advice is, to always get as near heaven as possible in this wicked world. In the upper berth you have at least five feet of breathing room above you, alld can lie for hours looking dreamily out of the open window, admiring the ever-changing pan- orama of Nature, while your neighbor below, shut up in a good-sized coffin with a side plank taken out for air, becomes a prey to doleful dlieams. Swiftly we glided past the Highlands covered with dark verdure, and looking weird and solemn in the moonlight. Past little towns and rural cities, built at the base of a mountain, or high up on some hill- side. Past quaint old castles, which carried one's thoughts far off to the poetic banks of the Rhine. Past many a spot renowned in legendary and his- toric lore-on, still on, we glided up the noble Hudson, which hurried by us to mingle its placid waters with the distant sea. Every blue wave laughed and twinkled in the moonlight, sporting with the silvery rays like a gay   MArNAGING A HUSBAND.      " coquette with her lover. One by one the stars calne out, but growing pale with envy before the glorlious lustre of the full moon, they drew a liisty veil of clouds over their faces, and left sweet Luna the undisputed Queen of Night. The principal solace amid the discomforts of travelling, is to laugh at the lugubrious faces and woeful complaints of others. It is so refreshing to one's tired senses, when roused from your dreams at the first peep of day by the bustle which announces that you have reached port, to emerge from your state-room with a discon- solate air, supremely miserable-with your eyes only half open and your head dizzy with the motion of the boat-it is so refreshing to look around you and remark that everybody else seems to be equally afflicted with yourself. One may soon forget his own troubles in making himself merry over others. Per- haps the most amusing affair of the morning was that of the stout old lady who had just seated herself at the breakfast table, and was about to partake of the savory viands before her, when lo! the thrilling cry of "all aboard" startled her sensitive nerves. With a most pathetic look of despair she seized her umbrella, little bag and big bag, lap-dog, and sundry other parcels by far too numerous to men-     12     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGAo tion, and hastened as fast as her physical capacity would allow her to catch the train. From the expression of that matron's face one might well have inferred that the little mishap of a "slip 'twixt the cup and the lip ' is one of the most trying grievances in the world. And so at last we reached the goal of our summer dreams-Saratoga. Sitting on the piazza and watch- ing the throng that comes and goes, catching glimpses of well-remembered faces, clasping the hands of old friends lost sight of since last summer; all this is like the re-perusal of some beautiful half-forgotten story, or the realization of a fascinating dream. The streets are gay with brilliant equipages and crowds of well-dressed people, who, having nothing else to do, laugh, and chat, and spend their money in the pleasantest manner possible. The shodcyites have nearly all disappeared. One hears no longer the rustle of pretentious silks and satins at the breakfast table, nor are weary eyes diverted from the morning papers by the glitter of diamond necklaces and bracelets. Only the flashing of bright eyes is allowable at so early an hour in the morning-that is, if eyes can be bright that know no sleep until the "wee sma' hours ' of the night have come.   II. THE RIVEIR. THE one thing about Saratoga which would, doubt- less prove the greatest attraction to a New Yorker, is that early in the season it is delightfully cool. Too cool perhaps for those delicate individuals who cannot endure a whiff of unadulterated fresh air- rheumatic old bachelors and fidgety old mlaids who aspire to romance upon the piazzas these lovely star- lit nights, and yet who are forever haunted with a secret dread of the night air! Even Miss Flimsy does not care to crush or hide her airy costume beneath a heavy wrap-anld so she  forsakes the piazza at an early hour for the ,ay ball-room, where one may whirl for hours ini the, giddy dance without expiring flom the heat. Perhaps we are not yet quite ready for Saratoga -for to enjoy a season at the Springs there is some- thing more to be done than wardrobes to be replen- ished and truniks filled to their utmost. People who come here should be prepared to catch the inspi-     "     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. ration of the hour; free from all care, light-hearted, willing and eager to enjoy life-to sip the foam when at its whitest-to catch the bubble while yet the rainbow glistens upon it. A heart that is ready for all this is ready for Saratoga. To be moved and swayed by the subtle charm which wooes the world hither; to feel the VCircean spell which throws a rose-tinted enchant- ment over all; to look upon life as a butterfly with golden wings, and to ask for no more-this is to enjoy life at a watering-place. But the spell of the river, up which we sailed on our way hitherward,a the beautiful, blue, flowing river, is yet upon, us. The river, with its deep waters flowing onward to the sea, dark alnd dreamy with the night shadows upon it, and here and there twinlling with the many-colored watch, lights, and the golden lamps which glitter like beacons on the shore; the river, with its lonlg line of towering hills and mountains holding endless communion with the skies; its stern and frowning walls of rock; its groves and woods of ever-living green; its quiet towns lying low in the valleys; its picturesque homes nestled like eagles' nests far up amid the mountain's crags, and all these slumberihg so peace- fully, all wrapped in quiet dreams, half in the   THE RIVER.         15 shadow and half reflecting the liglt of the quiet stars which seem so very far away. Can the Rhine, the far-famed, beautiful Ihine, with its crumbling castles, its pictured scenes of beauty, and its time-worn legellds, more fully en- thrall the heart and hold it captive with a wizard's spell than our own noble and picturesque IIudson? And thus, perhaps, it is the spell of the beautiful river which makes our first impression of Saratoga this summer very much like that of quaffing a glass of champagne   after all the sparkle has departed. Something of the old charm seenms lacking; some- thing of the old fascination gone. Where are those who have made this fashionable resort so delightful in past seasons? Where the ,bright eyes, the laughing lips, the inter- esting faces whicli once to look upon was to have a sweet memory of forever-the beautiful, the witty, and the gay, who last summer thronged the parlors and piazzas of Saratoga? Ah, those we learn to love and those who love us glide, one by one, away from our sight, and new friendshps are forever taking the places of the old, like the restless waves of the sea, which come and go, and are changing forever.     16     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. One peculiarity of Saratoga friendship is that amid the brilliancy of a watering-place life, new friendships catch the sun of love quicker and strengthen into warm attachments sooner than in the quieter, more shaded walks of existence. But the people, ah! the people! To one who has few friends, there cannot be a lonelier place than this. To drift about, a solitary bark amid a sea of strange faces, is to know the bitterness of solitude. In all nature there is no solitude, no feeling of desolation like that which sweeps over the lonely heart amid a throng of strangers. The birds, the trees, the flowers, valleys and moun- tains, all assimilate, all harmonize with the heart of man-and no such feeling of loneliness steals into the soul as that which often comes to the solitary being in the great throng.  Life at Saratoga may well be compared to a bub- ble-a beautiful bubble with all the bright colors of the rainbow shifting over it; a bubble radiant with light and beauty, but a hollow bubble after all. And how the world, like a little child at play, loves to amnuse itself with bubbles-with hollow bubbles that burst in a flash of time, and leave an empty void in the place but a moment before radiant with sunlight!   ON TIE PIAZZA. Mrsic in the-morning inspires one to fresh activ- ity; it incites to new energy; to noble impulsco, and to lofty aims. If one could be always awak- ened from slumber by sounds sweet or melodiois, the day would dawn so beautifully and so gently that care and grief wolld   hardly ventulre to intrude; and if they did, could be easily ban- ished. Breakfast is over; and the band is pllayig  ill- spiring music under the trees in the grove. The devotees of the various springs have returled frot their daily pilgrimage, apparently refresled atd invigorated, :for faith is able to work wouders; young belles appear in the most charmingi toilettes, and their bright eyes sparkle as mischievously under their coquettish little hats, or dart shy glances at you from  beneath their pink or blue parasols, as though they knew nothing of late hours or the glare of gaslight. Youngl gentlemen, faultlessly attired, witl fresh     18     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. rose-buds in their buttonholes, and perhaps faded ones upon their breasts, renew the whispered compli- ments they uttered the evening before beneath the stars, or when whirling through the dance, under the glittering lights of the ball-room. Elderly ladies, writh their faces discreetly veiled, and always car- rving the inevitable morning parasol, chat pleasant- ly together, and make caustic remarks upon the scan- dalous flirtations of the previous evening, which had been indulged in by the frivolous youngl maidens of the day, and mourn over the degeneracy of the age. Buit is not love and romance both beautiful and allowable in youth a And is old age itself quite exempt from the influ- ence of the sly god Cupid?             ( And is the mask of youth which old age endeavors in these " degenerate days " to wear, either beautiful or wise? If the fashionable young ladies of the present time would have shocked their feminine ancestors of long ago by their worldly ways, S am sure some of the fashionable old ladies of to-day would have fright- ened them out of their senses!L-not by their natural, but by their artificial, comeliness! This is one of the lessons one cannot help learning upon the piazza.   ON THE PIAZZA.       19 Another reflection is, that the evening is kindlier to poor humanity than the morning. Looking well by gaslight, and looking well in the broad, unsparing light of day, are two different things. But a rose is always a rose!-rwheth r lookin-g up to catch the warYm beams of the m1m1ning sunl aLd drinking in its fervid rays with joy, or sleeping placidly in the moonlight, with the glittering dew- drops on its bosom. So beauty is'always beautiful, and gathers new charms from every hour. But when Nature relies upon art to make her ador- able, she must choose her lights and shadows. Anld the evening is kindlier than the morning. The music is certainly charmling-ll-full of -pathos and sentiment--now inspiring one's heart with glad- iess, and now soothing ;the soul with sweet mellan- choly. Madge says that she would like to dance the polka- redowa with Fitz Hugh over the smooth walks of the grove, if no one were looking on. But I should object to that proceeding. So would Aunt Pril. That Madge is an incorrigible girl! Little children, with their golden locks flying mn- fettered in the breeze, go skipping over the piazza,     20     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. keeping time to the inspiring strains of the music with their tiny feet. Young belies, arm in a rmn walk up and down together, rehearsing the conquests of the last even- ing, and ransacking their dear little brains for new ideas concerning the toilettes of to-night. People who imagine that fashionable young ladies have nothing to do, are decidedly mistaken. Their pro- fession is heart breaking, and they pursue it with the most indomitable zeal. Young gentlemen, I find, are also given to the same pursuit. We have a New York exquisite here just now, who changes his ap- parel five times a day! Just think of the precious hours this would-be dazzling youth speinds before the mirror! his wardrobe is inexhaustible, and com- prises everything from black velvet suits to those of spotless white linen. I think he is in love. I think so every time I see him promenading this piazza, twirling his fanciful walking-stick in his small, white fingers. But I am quite sure that this young man is hopelessly in love with himself. Fitz Hugh declares that he was sent up here by some enterprising tailor's establishment. One day's study of human nature at Saratoga can-   ON THE PIAZZA.       21 not fail to be both instructive and amnsing, and that study may all be pursued on the piazza, In the morning, between ten and twelve o'cloc k, it is throngied with people. Reading is an impossibility at this hour. Nothing morle than skimmingl over the pages of a newspaper can be accomplished in the way of literature. As the throng passes and repasses, the great book of IIluan Life is wide open before you, and every new face is a fresh and curious page to be read. Reading faces is like reading a book in a for- eign tongue with which we are but partially ac- quainted. We catch a geiieral idea of the author's meaning, but lose many a pearl which is hidden in the vast ocean of thought. From twelve o'clock until four in the afternoon, the piazza is nearly deserted. The noonday siesta, embroidery, and dinner intervene. After dinner the band again assembles-this time on the piazza. Ever since the days of Orpheus has music wielded a magic charm over the hearts of mortals, ]uril'n them whither it will; and from four to five, afterl dinner, is a witching hour at Saratoga. Every one is in the best of spirits; the misic is charmninlg- now full of mirth and gayety, and now plaintive with pathos and sentiment. There is little prome-     22     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. nading, and every seat is occupied. Little coteries are formed, and sprightly conversations are carried on, through which lbon mots flash in and out like meteors darting through a summer sky. One may take in at a glance people of almost every clime. Distiniguishecd men of letters ; eminent j udges and lawyers; military heroes, who wear their laurels gracefully; divines, who are not too near heaven to enjoy the charms of good society on earth; men of wit and men of fashion; and men who are neither witty, nor learned, nor fashionable, but who were expressly created to fill up the loop-holes of so- ciety intended for bores. There are also beautiful and fashionable women. Women elegantly attired; women of mind and cult- ure; and women with pretty faces, whose brains are as destitute of ideas as those of a well-dressed doll. There are women of fashion, whose whole souls revolve alternately around a " love of a bon- net " or a cartre of diamonds.; and women of noble aims and purposes, whose minds are not utterly ab- sorbed in the trivialities of dress. There are wives who have not an idea beyond the ipse cldixit of their august (or foolish) husbands; and wives who are at last opening their eyes to the fact that they were not created to be the mere puppets and slaves of man.   ON TIE PIAZZA.        23 All these make up a little world, complete in it- self, in which one may while the hours delightfully away.- When the music ceases, it is emn re'le to drive to' the Lake, or wherever pleasure dictates, or to go down to the springs, to drilnk the waters with the last sunbeams sparkling upon them; and, after that, all is quiet until eight in the evening. Then the ladies emerge from their' rooms in the full splendor of evening toilettes ; and the glittering of rare jewels rivals the flashing of bright eyes. Faces which are plain and ordinary enough in the daytime seem to have stolen an added charm from the eventide, as though the parting day had left its blessing upol them! The parlors are filled with a gayly-dress4d and animated throng. Costly robes gleam softly beneath the radiance of many lamps, and rare gems which sparkle on every side reflect the rays of light with a liquid fire.  Leaving the crowded parlors for the piazza, we find the throng there also. But the soft light of the stars blends with the glitter of the lamps, and the young new moon droops low in the west. A brilliant aurora flashes fitfully across the northern sky. ' No hour upon the piazza is like to this. There is     24     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA, music; but it is the sound of the piano tonched by skilful fingers, or the voice of song which comes floating from the parlor. There is any amount of flirtation and love-making going on. The hour has a witchery in it, and few hearts can resist the spell, Even the elderly people recall faint memories of the time when they, too, went romancing under the stars. With pleasant chatting and soft laughter; with the fluttering of fans and the flashing of bright eyes ; with whispered words of love which only the evening zephyr can catch; under the starlight and the moon- light, blended with the soft glimmner of the laups- the evening glides swiftly away. , And when it is over, the piazza is once more de- serted. There is heard no more the sound of laugh- ter or of song; the lamps are put out; and the stars, which now look solemn and weird, shed a cold radi- ance over all, So the day ends at Saratoga. N   IV. A'   JANUARY AND MAY. TIr people who spend the most monley at Saratoga are the old menl with youing wives. As tlhre is no end to the caprlices of (ni old lan's dclalifn, the most lavish toilettes are displayed to a, apinIg wo'rld by these foolish butterflies of fashiol, who lhave re- nouneed love and  romancle forever, and( sold them- selves for gold to the highest bidder in Vanity Fair. One of these couples attracts particular attention. The husband is said to be enormously rcaltlh!, and no lady in Saratoga surpasses his wife i]n I(e e0e- gance of her toilettes. 1Her diamonds are of the first watel, amd sparkle as profusely ulponi her lovely per- son as dew-drops showered uplon a rose. In return for all the luxluries with whitch er hImusband's wealth provides her, this young wife entertriins hin with a ceaseless prattling. Her glances are turned leither to the right nor to the left, but alwanys rest dlutif-illy upon her liege lord. Indeed, she could not do other- Twise if she wished, for his admiring eyes are con- stantly fixed upon her. He is evidently amused and 2     26     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. flattered with her constant attention and charming vivacity, and she has only to say, "My dear!" to have the wealth of the Indies laid at her feet. And how people do stare at this bride of half a hundred millions! Verily we mloderns are w\orse than the heathen idolators of old. We do not build our idols of solid gold as did they; we care not what the idol itself may be, so that it is covered with gold, we fall down and wrorship it! But faughll! Madge sayvs that she would rather bury all his diamonlds and riches in the lottom of the sea than be compelled to gaze upon and to enter- tain that wizen-faced old man all day. Anlother representative of the January and MTay marriage, is Richard Lambda, a youthlful veteral of seventy, with a wife of twenty. Viewed t at dis- tance-for sake of the encall ltment, you knowS-3r. Richard Lambda mighlt pass for folrty-five. But Aunt Prim says that he was a grown llan when she was a " wee, toddling girl in pinafores!" (Imag- ine Aunt Prim ever toddling!) But this gentlemoanl is marvellously gotten up. Iis hair and whiskers  ? are of raven blackness, and his teeth as white as pearls. A golden eye-glass dangles froml his vest, and his toilette ials ala unexceptionable. And what matters it if, in reality, he is bald, tooth-   JANUARY AND MAY.       2,7 less, almost siglltless, brailless, and deaf? '"?,porte tout cela! Does lie not own the finest house in Gotham? And if .he can scarcely walk, can 1Ie not ride in a gilded coach behind the fleetest of steeds? And is not a heap of gold dollar I better1 thhanl  split sixpence-even thoungh the sixpenlce was lbrol'ken in a love troth? So atleast decidedl his younlg wife, who is said to have married this mlain to please 1er father, and almost broke her heart at t reno;uncingl  yoluger and dealer lover. We have any Inulmer of brides, however, with you(,gi husbands. One of them sits near me now, (elegn ly attired, and dividing her attention lbetween the new- ly wedded husband and a pet lap-dog! iReally tle lap-dog appears to possess the largest share of its mistress' affection! In whatever costume this fair bride chooses to array herself, the lap-dog is decked with a velvet ribbon of the same color as her dress. The husbattn also displays a cravat of the same hue. TWhlat a consultation there must be every morning about di-f- erent shades of colorl in this happy family of three! !t -   Cousin Maadge views  all the newly married couples with curious eyes; and she detests that lap- dog. I cannot refrain from whispering, sLb vrosa- for what woman could ever yet keep a secret, or ,           .-     28 HSPARKLES FROlM SARATOGA. what man either?--that Cousin TMadlge expectts to be married this fall. And the Iway she snubs all the young gentlemen whro are inlined to proffer her their attentions is simply terrific. The miost eleganlt man in the world woulld scarcely be able to wil a soe ond thougIlht froum her, just now. Lovers are all as lilnd as bats. They see no one, lad ]heed 1o one, except the lbeloved, whom they in- vest with every fancied charm. A lover's life is like a dream, tl-10rou'h whi(ch the people of the -world move like phantonms, and the only real existence is that of the chosen olne, who is worshipped as a divinity, and wlhose image fills heart and mind to the utter exclusion of every one else. Heiho! talking about lovers, if Fitz Ilugh were only here! But that incomparable youth has re- turned to tdwn, and three long days must elapse ere we may hope once more to behold him. The very thought overwhelms me with despair. Not a single exquisite here can compare witlh Fitz Hugh. The remembrance of that absentl but unforgotten youth dispels all my sweet fancies, and I turn for con- solation to contemplate a lock of his lovely hair. Perhaps you thinkl I wear it upon my heart? What nonsense! I shall send it to a (dmenmist. 1 really   JANUARY AND  rAY.      29 would like to know if the mellowness of his lbain lias anything to do with the golden tint of his lail--or if the color is all owing to the barber'ls skill. I scorn to be cnrious-but this is merely aJ atter of sc(illnce. Fitz ITugh is quite proud of lhis golden loc:ks alnd cerulean eyes, deepened in tint by the cerulean cr'a- vat hle generally wears. And, entroe nous, low charmhing this fascinatingt youth appeared on t1e morning he left, dressed in a coat of black velvet, white \vst, whito pantaloons, a love of a white hat restilng upon his golden curls, mnd with the ie\vita- ble blue cravat, so becoming to a blonde! Ah! Fitz lligh is elegant,! But this is cnt;,e nouA /     V. MAKING HAY. O  IIAT Madge! that terrible, ilcorrigible girl! Madge has been down in the park a-haying! Not "making hay while the sun shines," in the manner which young ladies of position are expected to do, during' a season at Saratoga, by securing an eligible match-llo-Miss Madge has put an end to all such hopes by her mad-cap caprices. This morning, ar- rayed in my most charming toilette, and accompa- nied by the elegant Fitz Hugh-who has just returned, I walked down to Congress Park. There we saw a party of hay-makers tossing up the grass. It all looked very romantic when viewed from a distance, but, as we drew nearer, whom should we recognize among the merry hay-makers but Miadge and that wild Belle Arden from Chicago, with Mr. Cecil and two or three other gentlemen. Oh dear! I thought I should faint; Madge's hat was lying upon the grass -her hair was flying at random, -and her cheeks were such a vulgar re! It was too shocking! They were all busily en-   MAKING HAY. T31 gaged in tossing the hay, as though they thought it fine fun ; and then, to cap all, when I looked up in Fitz IIugh's face, expecting to find a sneer upon his aristocratic features, he was gazing at Madgce, and laughingly declared he had never seen her look so handsome before! The stupid fellow really looked as though he wished to join the party! I was just upon the point of fainting, to prevent that catastrophe, while I saw Aunt Prim and Bacelmelor Grumpy ap- proaching us. When the former looked in the face of her paragon niece, she knew that something was wrong. Unable to speak, I turnled my eyes in speechless agony toward the hay-makers. Aunt Prim followed my glance. "Yes, my dear, they are havilng a merry time of it," she said, blandly. I remained mute w\ith sur- prise, forgetting that Aunt Primn's eyesiglt is not so. good as it might be, when Grumpy suddenly cried out: Why, bless my soul, if Madge is not makingi hay!" "Madge! My dear sir, is Madge there!" ex- claimed Aunt Prim, now thoroughly horror-strickeln. "Of course sle is, and that sly little mixl froml the West, and half a dozen others. Well, it's jolly ' fun to see those fellows making hay with lavender     32     SPARKLES FPROMA SAREATOGA. kids upon their handls!" 1ald 1'r. Bachelor Grumpy laughed heartily. I ere I forgot Madge enltirel , it was so amusing to watch Aunt Prim. I lknew lthat shle wass boiling with rage to think that a ny oune bclonoging tto ou() family would frolic so-but tlillen I hertle wavs Bachelor Grumnpy at her sIe,I and what could she do? oJuISlt nothing; ald so slh smiled with her lips, while her eves darted fork1ed ligtnils ;- she velted her anger upon her poor shawl and parasol, the latter slhe shooLk nervously, and the forner she twitched until I feal're it: would fall in pieces. Oh, dearl, I came near dying witlh suppressed allllgter! Aullt Prim prudently eonlcluded to lidleer t tim-e, and did. not call .Madge, but passed oil with Iacele- lor Grumpy. Tills gentleman is al old acquailntance who has recently arrived in Saratoga. ' Is it the bewitchinlg serenity of Aunt Prim's features whch las lured himl hither? or can it be the glistening r of her gold, or tlhe spalrlinl wraters of the Springs? I1 know nol t; but at aly rate, -he is "' your most devoted " to mly parargon anlt, whllere'ver we go. And it is really quite delightful, for this excellent lman absorDs so much of Aunt Prim's attention, that shel solnltimles lqite forgets a' tihe ogills.'   MAKING HAY.         33 Just before the dinner-hour, in walkedtl Miss Madce, swigilng her hat in her lhand; Lald the saucy girl commenced to silg- I Under my hat of barley-straw, Charlie gave me a kiss! Nobody heard, and nobody saw, Do not take it amiss- 'Twas only a kiss!" Only a kiss! WIlhat could the 'girl mean? I c'e Aunt Prim  entered and I gave ]herl s('li a1 lecture  Madge listenled demulrely at firAst; then, wallking to the open window which looks out upoll the lpiazza, she turned and said: "Oh don't, Auntie! Mr. Grunpy is smoking rigllt under the window!" Aunt Prim  flounced anlgrily oult of the r)oom. The word Grumpy had the desired effect, and endledl the lecture, and Madge laughled as though it were capital fun. There was a concert in tihe Opera House this evening. Of course I was there, and Fitz Huglh beside me. And that charmlin'g I fllow wore tlhe loveliest cravat! I complinented him  upon tile color, it was so becoming. ; Oh, yes, blue is the color for a blonde, you know," he said, stroking his moustache. Speakiiig 2*     34     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. of a blonde, did he mean me or himself, I wonlder? I have heard it whispered that Fitz Huglh's goldel loctks are dyed. I cannot believe it, hlo(veverl althougli Fannie Arling-ton declares she met 11liln in Paris two winters ago, and that his hair was tiell as brown as brown could be. She says notlilng of ]lis ilnimitable moustache.; I suppose it was not visible then. The Opeera House fronts upon a. beautiful grove, and what can be more charming than wanderingl through this sylvan retreat by moonlight halnging upon Fitz Hugh's armi with the stars looking softly down through the trees, while from the concert room near by float delicious strains of music. Speechless, and lost t ecstasy, Birds and the stars above me, I did not hear, I did not see. Ah me! I thought that she did love me." Bah! let not every romantic youth imagine that a maiden who looks upon him with melting eyes, as they walk together beneath the trees ilt the moon- light, is in love with him. Possibly she is thilling of some absent lover; or probably she meditates wlwether the dew-drops rwhich glisten like jewels in her hair will not rob her tresses of their crimp, or the stiffness from the white muslin, which used to be   MAKING HAY.         35 called a simple dress, but is now so be-pulffed nd be-ruffled that it is simple no longer. Neither is its wearer. Talk about the wisddom  of our ' antd- mothers! One "Girl of the Periodl" wolltl astonis and eclipse twenty of those dear ancient (dl:les,. It would not do, however, to let Anllt Prirl see that last remark, for she is fond of expressing her conltelllpt for the " ignorance of young  people," andc the "shocking deterioration of the age!"  -     VI. THE WIDOWI DASH. THE Widow Dash has arrived. Sixteen Saratocga trunks ; five oblong ones, resembling so many coffins, in which hie buried at full length her ball dresses; twenty-five bandboxes; a parrot in a gilded age ; two lap-dogs; an elegant equipage with a span of full-blooded bays; a maid, a coachman, and a foot- man ; all these are il the train of this wonderful widow. And goodness knows how much i1more1 since 'this list does not include the et cetera(s. Saratoga las been in a flutter of excitement for three days over this fascinatinlg widow. The yo ung men are harder than ever now to be sulited in the choice of a ceravat, and twi their incipiiet Imois-  taches for hours before the mirror, in the hope of seeing' them grow-and the elderly creaturess, poor souls! get themselves up " regardless "-and all tlis for a widow! What miserable taste! You remembler the Widow Dash  Six 'years ao she was the belle of the 6bearm rnoicle of Fifth  Avenue. She married old Latitude and Longitude--  THE WIDOW DASH.      X        r TTHlE WIDOW DASI.       37 that's what we sehoolgirls called him, for tlhere wIas no limlit to the latitude of his )lurse-adl, as for his life, it had already :attaile(dl\v c/ ( lo gi ti1di. Iowex-ver,l ignorilg the lol itude in consideration of the latitu de, Miss Fairy .eautiful wedded F ather Graybeard. And lie, good old soll ,  lgrowillg tired of the follies and vexations of Vanity Fairl, depr'ted this life with a good grace, leavinog to hs fasholalfble younlg wife the bulk of his splenldid fortillc. Iow considerate of him! Stuch a piece of ()g, (od -nature is 1not to be expected of every veinera;bloe :and weallthy husband! Blut-the poor, dearl man L:has un- doubtedly his rewa rd ; anld moreover- ie lias es- can)ed the earthly t art1vrdoin of tlraelliln, in cl(ha g of the widow's b1)a',ace, which wovuld lbe eno()tu to distract any live masculine.  And then the bills which this Qharning widow runs up would surely suffice to frighlten any man out of his senses. Twelve thousand dollars are scarcely sufficient to cover the expenses of her short season at Saratoga. Ah, well, if husbands must die, it is a fine thilg to i.  . be a rich widow! It is now two years since old Latitude took h is :l departure for a better sphere, and since thatt inter- estinno-not to say disinterested event on hs part--lis widow has m-aintained a proper seclusion, and     38     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. devoted herself assiduously to the study of womlan- kind. Do not imagine for a moment tt atshe has the least idea of taking the platforml in defence of womlan's rights, or that she has resolved in her mind any grand scheme  for the amelioration of the troubles of her sex. Not at all. She knows her rights, and knows how to obtain them also in the mIost charming way in the world. If one only knows how, the genus ah-omo is the easiest gents to manage on the face of the earth. The great art consists in concealing the management altogether. Just let these masculine bipeds catch a glimpse of the whip and the reins, and straightway they are stubborn as mules! But stand smilingly before them, with your "gypsy" hat full of fresh, green grass, and the dear creatures will amble along beautifully.. Don't I know? Haven't I Fitz Hugh already in training But to return to the widow. During these two years she has devoted her golden moments to the precious study of herself. Every art known to an- cient and modern times for attaining the perfection of female loveliness, she has explored; from long centuries ago, when Roman ladies sat upon the house-tops to bleach their hair beneath Italy's burn-   THE WIDOW DASh.        39 uig sun, lp to th6 present day, when modlen beleles transforn their tresses into gold by some mnysterious, process of the hair-dresser's skill. EEvery aldvantacge to be derivedt from dress l-,a been carefullyl polldered; every lo)ok, every 1motioil every siile well studied ; and nll, havilng reaclted the acme of loveliness anld perfection, in her studyr of womankind, the Widow Dasl reappears in so(ciety, to dazzle it with far more thlan her pristine glory. She enters as queen, into the sphere for which she has fitted herself-that of conquerinlTg )Za,)kind! This is the age of progression, and it is quite evident that woman must adyance as well as  nml. If man shuts the gates, and debars her from advane- ing in his way, let him be sure that she will find a path of her own, and circumvent him at last. Talk about the perplexities which harass and worry a man's brain! I would not undertake to teach the smartest man alive to master the infilite trivialities that make up the sum  of a fashionable woman's life. It is all very well for a man, after years of labor, to get one grand idea safely lodged in his cranimn, to turn " professional " of some kind, and then rest upon his oars, content to spend the remainder of his life in developing that one idea. But just let him     40     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. attempt to fathom the intricacies of the mind and heart of a woman like the Widow Dash, and he will find himself beyond his depths in no time. Law and logic would be nothing to that! I pliainly see trouble il the distance. Bachelor Girumpy is swerving from his allegiance, and Aunt Pril is disturbed in mind. A shadow, as yet no larger than that flungl from. a bird's wi-lg, darkens her " love's young dream." Ever since this fair widow's arrival, Grumpy has acted like a man in a maze, or rather like one who has lost his senses. Madge says the widow has bewitched half the men here into lunacy. And she has such a horror of idiotic men! "Leaves have their time to fall." And so have love-smitten youths! that is, upon their knees, before the object of their devotiols. But who wishes to see a man on his knees at all times, or all men, paying homage to the same woman? If Fitz Hugh is sometimes slightly bewildered, who can blame him?  If that irresistible youth is too much infatuated  already to fall into this wily widow's net, so innch the better for him! Youlng men, beware of tne widows! The attentions which those odious lap-dogs, and   TIE WIDOW DASI-.       4t that screeching parrot, which belong to the Widow Dash, receive from our Saratoga exquisites, is simply terrific! As mulch adulr-tion andi homage are offered them as though they were Saratoga belles. And how complacently the Widow Dash contemplates all this! She says but little. She has more faith in the eloquence of looks than of words. She smiles, or sills ;--flutters her fall, the better to- display her white hands glittering with gems ;---darts destructive glances from her soft eyes at some adorer ;- --blushes slightly, then' drops her orbs languidly-and the intoxicated admirer, poor, foolish butterfly that he is! is ready to fall in the dust at her feet, utterly regardless of the consequent ruin to his white inex- pressibles! Oh, dear! what fools these men are! Still, out of commliseration for these poor, belilhted, deluded creatures, I repeat-to all men, both y)oung and old-beware of the Saratoga widow! Aunt Prim  is waxing wrathy. In fact she has been wratlh  ever since this morning, which we spent on the "grand stand" 9 watching the races. Of course the inevitable widow was therel; and Bache- lor Grumpy was so attentive ;-to the widow, not to Aunt Prim! Aunt Prim would expire at the mere idea of attending a race. 'The widow vanquished her admirer in a bet-and Aunt Prim has a proper     42     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.: horror of betting. She would not make a bet, even to secure Bachelor Grumpy for life. This is all very well,. but still what a disagreeable duenna Aunt Prim is when she is angry!   .   VII. "E BEAU MONDE. WAS there ever a gayer place than Saratoga is this season? No sooner has one wave of. pleasure died softly away than "Another as bright and as shining comes on." It is one constant whirl of excitement from early morning far into the " wee sna' " hours of the night. One lives almost in a dreaml-a beautiful, poet's dream--throough whrich is ever floating strains of delicious music, the perftume of flowers, the voicces of sweet singers, the flashing of brigllt eyes, soft glances, and whispered tones--the gleamillg of 'ra)e jewels, and the rustling of costly roDes. All these blend harLmoniouslv together to make life beantiful, and to blot all care and sorrow frolm the leart. People who come here to pass only a dday ol two find themselves detailed as if bv a magical spell--a charm which they are loth to break; and so they linger, until days glide into weeks, and the gay season is over, and the memory of Saratoga pleas-     "     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. ures follows one far into the dreary winter, like the scent of the dead summier roses. Every one is light-learted, every one is happy. One would think that life werle all sunshine, that we had oily to revel in the warm, golden beam, and to pluck flowers that never concealed a thorn! The hotels are crowded with people ;. the streets are brilliant with gayly dressed ladies who pro1m- enade without hats, as though in a drawinllg-rooml, and shade their fair faces from the glowing kisses of the sun by parasols of delicate tints. Elegant car- riages, with fine horses, are driven up and down Broadway by sable Jehus in gorgeous livery. The stores are filled with the latest New York fashions and novelties, venders of quack medicines armunse lhe throng with comic songs and witty sayings ; tables spread with Indian wares attract the lovers of curios- ities while those who are fond of the antique, hover longingly over a display of ridh Oriental jewelry, bracelets and rings, which possess the charm of waft- ing one's thoughts far over the sea to sunny Al- giers, to sweet Georgian vales, or where floats the perfume of roses which bloom in Cashmere. Prom- enading the Saratogian Broadway is like wanderingl through a great fancy fair, where one never tires of seeing or hearingl. All kinds of people continually   4 IE BlArU MONDE.       45 pass you; the beautiful and the ugly; the mal of intellect, and the be-whiskered fop whose brain has long since run to hair; distiinguished clergy- men, poets, and artists; illustrious autlhors, and cele- lrated muisicians; digilified senators and affallled Collgressnmell ; womCe of culture and refinteent; woImen of- birth and )breedinl,; mel wi  r e l: e not a, soul above buttons, anld xome who exist o1ly to array themsselves; becautiful young ladies, and fool- ish old ones, who are neither youngll 1 lnor betiful, but who refuse to resigi tlhemselves gl r(efully t(o the custody of old Fathelr Tie, and decL them- selves with all the affectations of dress and manners of sweet sixteen. "Oh! wad some power the giftie gie us, To see ourselves as ithers see us!" There goes a woman promenading the piazza, tle sight of whom is enough to draw the tears from one's eyes; she is at least seventy-five years old ; yet so be-powdered, be-painted, be-frizzled, that it is to be doubted if she recognizes her own self in the mirror. IIcr dress is always youthfull ; this olll'niog it is a white swiss, covered with puffs and rufiles. A bright-colored sash is fastened at her waist. Two lorg, dark curls float airily down her back, while the V                /O     "    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. rest of her auburn (?) hair is arrallged in braids and puffs. Diamonds glisten in her thin ears, and 1upo her withered hands, which are also profusely pow- dered or covered with enamellling. To see this \wolaln at the distance of a few feet, one might sup-  pose her to be very young ; but when she approaches, oil, horror! a shudder creeps over you, and )you feel like fleeilng before the skeleton which looks out upon you behind the thick layers of enamel, arrayed in the height of fashion. To complete her toilette, she car- ries a little black-and-tan terrier under her a7rm, which looks at you with its sharp black eyes, and slows its smnall white teeth menacingly. I never look upon that terrier but I think of a ghoul haunt- ing a grave, or the spirit of Eblis keeping guard over a doomed soul, in the shape of a pampeled lap- dog! And I never see this painted skeleton dance, for dance she does, but I fancy I hear the rattling of dry bones  In pleasing contrast to this horrid mockery of old age, this disdaining the years which should bring honor and wisdom to all, is Mrs. Beta, the wife of Congressman Beta, of New York. This dear old lady is always simply dressed in black, and wears her own gray hair arranged in becoming little puffs. Her manners are the simplest and most unaffected (/.   "E BEAU MONDE.        47 in the world, and one may look upon her and learn how to grow old gracefully! One cannot help asking, while looking into the faces of some of the elderly ladies who spend the summer at Saratoga, what has become of the dear old ladies of the olden time? The sweet, pale face, from which the roses had fled, but left their sweet- ness still; the silvered locks which crowned the fur- rowed brow with a halo of glory ; the soft, low voice which touched the heart, because its eery tone seemed a plaintsfor the dear ones who had " gone before ; theiple sip attire of black silk, and the soft ruffles of white lace; where is now this vision of sweet womanhood, which no one could fail to love and venerate? Alas! the dowagers who come to renew their youth at the sprilng of Saratoga are inot of this class! Old age forgets that it has a poetry of its own, and makes a sad mistake in putting on the mask of youth. Saratoga is a veritable "School for Scandal."' It is amusing and at the same time saddenilng to hear the remarks made upon every side. One almost dreads to cross the room when one hears the insid- ious comments made upon every passer-by. But, after all, a woman need have little fear for herself- it is only her toilette which is discussed.     48     fSPARKLES FROIMt SARATOGA. Is it not a wretched, questionable taste whel the world ralks the wardrobe, as of more importance than the indiviidual? Dresses, not brains, are at a premium in Sara- toga. I hate to hear a man discussing a lady's dress. I am apt to fancy that his soul is small enough to be tulcked -under the hem of a handkerchief. People who call themselves gentlemen and ladies, will stand on the piazzas or in the drawing-room, and eagerly watching the promenaders who ap- proach, make their caustic remarkls and conllents as freely, as though they were gazing upon a menagerie. Did you ever know that butterflies buzz? You should spend an hour of a bright evening in the parlor at Saratoga; such a continued buzzilng, chat- tering, and laughing of merry people congregated together was never heard before! iNo assenmbly of busy bees could hope to rival these bultterflies of fashion, who swarm under the brilliant chandeliers, and spread their gaudy wings. If you draw near to the various little coteries, you will hear people who are sparkling with jewels rioting in bad grammar and empty ideas ; you will see aldermen who can scarcely write theilr own   "E XBEAU MONDE.       49 inames, and shoddy people wlho endeavor to conceal their ignorance with thick layers of gold. They are dancing the German this mornling in the ball-room, and Madge is whirling through its mazes with Fitz Hugh. The witching straills of the music float in through my wildow, and if my letter be incoherent, it is because my pen is inspired with the spirit of the dance, and. will persist in keep- ing time. To-morrow night we are to have a grand mas- querade at our hotel; of which I think Madge entertains "great expectations." That girl never will sober down into a staid old woman, if she lives to be fifty! She is continually upsetting the equi- librium of Aunt Prim's good-temper by her vaga- ries, and Aunt Prim's temper is none of the best. I have advised the dear old lady to take a few addi- tional glasses of Congress water, which she firmly believes to be a cure for all evils. 3     VIII, TIE MASQUERADE. TIiE morning after a ball is not apt to be par- ticularly charming, and the people we found espe- cially brilliant and witty beneath the gaslight, are often stupid enough the next day. The belles of the evening, who bewildered  your fancy, 'and entangled your heart, and still lingered in your dreams after the soft good-nights were uttered, wear a different guise the next morning. Everybody looks sleepy and bored. Everybody except Aunt Prim, who sits erect in her chair upon the piazza readilng the morning paper, and denounlcing " that artful Napoleon! I am glad that Napoleon just now engrosses her anathemas, since Madge and I would certainly come in for our bitter share, did the good lady dream that we, her nieces, attended a masquerade! Cousin Madge sits near, shading her face with a pink parasol, with her sweet lips buried in a fresh water-lily which she holds in her hand, and her beautiful eyes half closed, for they are heavy with   TIIE MASQUE RADE.      51 slumber. Maclge is weary after the past night's frolic, and is doing penance now by ignoring the adlmiring glances of those that pass her, and giving all her thoughts to her absent lover. Ah!" there's nothing half so sweet in life, as love's yoluln dream!" If men were to die of their vanity, how frightful would be the mortality among them! If Madge chances to glance twice at a pair of patent-leather boots, or a curled moustache which passes her, the itilividual who owns said boots or moustache is sure to catch the twinkle ill her eye, and immediately pluming his feathers with gratified vanity, he promenades up and down for her especial benefit. And all the time M]adge is probably think- ing of some one else-longing for her dinner-or viewinlg her wardrobe with her mind's eye, and pondering in what toilette she may appear next. If she notice the arrogant stare of the man at all, it  is only to laugh at his conceit, or to walk away to avoid his impertinent glance. Not a presentable, unmarried man in Saratoga but imagines that every pretty or homely girll is laying siege to his heart, and that every match-  m1aking mamma is endeavoring to weave her toils arounld hiln. He fancies that he lhas only to ask and     52     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. that the maiden whom he may honor wifh his choice will drop into his arms. But to the masquerade. A mong the characters represented were patriotic young ladies in costumnes of red, white, and blue; flower girls, and queens of the night ; avaliers, troubadours, sultans, and clowns in abundance. And there was a, pretentious young gentleman in a court suit of white silk and gold lace, who evidently had not received the order of the "Garter," since his white hose were full of wrinkles! ' Oh, cear! what a blessing it would be to one's sense of the beautiful, if some people would always wear masks. There was a Iighlander present, whose fine, stately figure elicited much admiration from the fair sex, but who took off his mask and revealed a shad-faced, middle-aged man whom no one would ever dream of falling in love with. And Madge and I wearied ourselves with laugh- ing at Fitz Hugh, who went raving over a head of golden curls, but whose rhapsodies were suddenly brought to dismay, when at the mystic hour of twelve, the masks were removed, and the poor fel- low's inamorata proved to be a jolly old lady of sixty! Poor Fitz Hugh! He was glum and sar- castic enough all the rest of the evening, and   THE MASQUERADE.       53 indulged in the most cynical remarks about the dcccitfulness of women. During the cvenilng I tlook especial pains to draw his attention to a bcautiftl brunette, just budding  into womanhood, and evidently destined to the naughty mission of break- ing hearts. But he was too much absorbed ii th1at; splendid mesh of golden curls, to heed the 1brlluetle. I have no patience with a man who falls inl love with a wig! I shall take Fitz Hugh to the hair-dresscer's window some day, and proceed to enlightcn hilm. The ball-room was crowded, anld magnificentl toilettes and blazing jewels were as plentiful as roses in June. But there is an old adage which   says, "Fine feathers make fine birds ; " and if all the tlrap- pings of wealth were laid aside, Saratoga could lboast of but little beauty. RIouge and powder, and all the other accessories  to a fashionable woman's toilette, may go a long 'way toward adding fancied charms to those who have sad lack of them. But if these apparently blooming roses were transplanted from the hot-bed of fashion, and deprived of their jewels, satins, aid laces, of the' rouge, powder, switches and curls, your roses would suddenly vanish, and not even the charm of a daffy-down-dilly renain.     54     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. And even when genuine beauty passes by, per- feet features, and complexions which owe nothing to art, how often does the face express nothing but insipidity. One sees plenty of briLht eyes, luxuriant tresses, and pretty shoulders; but alas! the soul which might inspire the heart to lastinog admiration is too often wanting. And what is vapid, expression- less beauty worth Every young lady who is bent on making conquests, mlight easily spare a few of the precious hours wast6d upon fashionable follies, and devote them to cultivating her mind. For the charms she may thus acquire are imperishable, and will outlive her youth and loveliness. An elderly lady of intelligence and culture has always warm-hearted admirers and friends, while a frivolous, empty-headed young belle, with no charm save a pretty face, is sure to sink into a stupid old woman. The prettiest fancy dresses at the ball were worn by the children. Little fairies, enveloped in clouds of white tulle, flitted around the room, and boys of tender years, in powdered wigs and satin small clothes, danced and promenaded with the nymphs in  tulle, with all the airs and graces of young gentle- men of a larger growth. And how the little faces sparkled with glee!   THE MASQUERADE.        55 There were Scotch laddies and lassies, gentle alnd fair as the bonnie lovers wlho inspired the tenlder muse of Robert Burns; there were little Normandy peasants, with their high-pointed caps resting upon thick tresses b1riglt with youth's sunshine; also pretty Swiss shbpherdesses with simple crooks in their tiny hands, and Italian banditti whose faces were so utterly devoid of wickedness as to induce one to believe in the traditional good qualities ald innate nobleness of Robin Hood and others of his ilk; little fellows in blue and white, called them- selves "jolly tars," and declared their invincible devotion to the stars and stripes; and there were soldiers who never dreamed of scars, and little girls who commenced   their belle-ship thus early 1)I wearing dresses trimmed with tiny silver bells, which tinkled musically as their wearers went float- ing through the dance. But it is quite evideit that the sober American i; not gifted with that vivacity, that froth and sparkle of merriment which overspreads the surface of a French or Italian life, like the foam upon a glass of champalgne-alnd therefore he cannot elter inlto the wild, capricious, fantastic spirit of the mnasqulerade which constitutes its only charm. Where is the pleasure of attending a masked ball,     56     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. when three-fourths of the assemblage are dressed in their everyday silks and broadcloth? Iow can one imagine for a moment, that he lives in the prilmitive days of America, as he promenades the ball-room with a swarthy, black-haired Pocahon- tas leaning upon his arm, and is at the same time continually bowing to the "Girl of the Period," arrayed in the most fashionable modern attire? And -where is the pleasure of talking with a masked Scotchman wlho wears the tartan plaid with a manly grace, but who has never read a line of Robert Burns', and knows absolutely nothing of the heroic Wallace? The fop and the fool, and the natural Satans who go about dressed in black and red, but who can never hppe to attain to the dignity of a Nephis- topheles, are perhaps the best-represented characters at a modern masquerade. It is so easy for people to throw off the mask they wear all their lives for the deception of the world, to don a hideous guise and be themselves for a few brief hours!   IX. FORTUNE-IIUNTERS. AN interesting specimen of the human biped is the fortune-hunter. We have them in Saratoga, in abundance. Some create a sensation as coults; some as wealthy Southerners, or patriotic Cubans; and others come from--Heaven only knows where- and cut a dash with their fine figures, fine manners, and elegant dress. The fortune-hunter is inde- fatigable in learnilng family histories. He knows the "prospects" of every noticeable damsel in society. He regards oevery young lady in the light of a probable heiress, counts her jewels, and knows as well as a married man-perhaps better- the value of her laces and other finery. He knows just how many heirs there are to the wealth of each pater- familias, and can guess with the accuracy of a life- insurance agent, as to the probable longevity of suclh "paternal." He addresses himself rather to the mammas than to the daughters--which evinces a shrewd knowledge of human nature. He trusts to his good looks and stylish air to attract the suscep- 3*     58     ShniSPARKLES FROM. SARATOGAI. tible hearts of the younger ladies, while he appears utterly indifferent to them, and all the time he is, like the cunning spider, waitiiog for his prey. The unlucky heiress who chances at last to fall into his grasp, will never be able to say that he tookL especial pains to win her, for he will weave his web so skillfully that she will blindly walk therein, seem- ingly of her own sweet accord. The fortune-hunter is a cool speculator, who con- siders every dollar he spends at Saratoga, or New- port, or in arranging his own person in the latest style, as a good investment, which shall some day bring him  splendid returns. I believe that he would make love to Aunt Prim herself- not caring whether his heiress is young or old, so that. she has plenty of money. But our worthy aunt is far too shrewd to be lured by his wiles. Just at present, one of these individuals who is eagerly looking out for a wife wnllo will be able to take care of him, (it is to be hoped that she will belong to the Woman's IRights party, and will see that he attends to household aiffairs, while she at- tends to the affairs of the nation!) has his eyes fixed admiringly upon the Goldbug family. First, there is Papa Goldbug-who really seelns to be gifted as was King Midas of olden time,  -   FORTUNE-hUNTERES.       59 for everything he touches is turnned to precious gold. he has been most emphatically, a lucky man. No one knows his pedigree; it is to be dloulbted if he knows it himself--though rumor has it that; lie con- menced life a a rag-seller, and his father imay 11ave been a rag-picker in the very streets thlroulghl which his costly equipages now roll. It matters lot; lhe has risen fromn his rags to purple and filne lilln, and society now smiles upon him, and holds out her hand to lift him yet higher ; for society is partial to purple and fine linen. And yet, if still ill the midst of his rags, who would notice Papa Goldlbugo'? Ah! society would hold its perflumned handker- chief to its fastidious nose, and pass; by on the other side, wishing devoutly that the earth were swept of its s8ctm / What homage we yield to plurple and fine linen! while often regardless of the God-life-- blind to the divinity which is enshrined in every human  creature. We worship the mortal, and ignore the immortal. If Papa Goldbug be worthy of the flattering at- tentions he now receives, was he not worthy of the same kind consideration years ago, when le was struggling hard for the success whiclh le las won? If worthy then, he is deserving now; if not, then     / 60     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. those who honor him, do honor to his gold, not to the man . "The rank is but the guinea's stamp, The man's the gowd for a' that." Mamama Goldbug is a dressy, fussy little woman, who revels in silks, and satins, and velvets all day long, scorning, in her newly acquired wealth, to wrap herself in commoner materials. She canc aord to wear silk always, and she wishes peop]e to know it. She mixes up real and imitation laces in a mar- vellous way, from shea inability to tell the differ- ence between the tWvo. She wears gloves usually, for her little fat hands are like twin cabbbage roses, and their ruddy hue causes a world of vexation to the good little woman. She tries hard, poor soul, to live up to her position, but she is a martyr, nevertheless, and her life is a sacrifice to fashion. Mamina Goldbug would be far happier queening it over a snug little dairy, with plenty of cows, and chickens, and even pigs, to look after, while she vigorously flourished the broom or the mop-than she is, sitting here in state, dressed to the last extrem- ity of fashion, loaded with finery, and strivillg to imitate tfe airs and graces of the fashionable people she sees around her.   FORTUNE-IIUNTERS.       61 But we have yet to mention the jewel for which the fortune-hulter is striving. And this is the little Goldbug; a pretty, pert ;younlg lady of eightteell, who possesses a great deal of the shrewdules w]li(ch enabled her father to rise in llfe, and who adapts herself far more easily to the ways of the bcaut mzonlde than does her imartyred mamma. The little Goldbug appears in the morning daintily attired in a becoming white dress, with a little hat upon her head. I have heard gentlemen sneer at the useless- ness of a lady's hat. 'But how easy it is to be mis- taken! Under the little Goldbug's chapeau is tucked away a great quantity of curl-papers and dozens of crimping pins which it would never do to display, and which are twisted so tightly that the poor thing can scarcely close her eyes. I thinkl slhe sleeps, rabbit-like, with one eye open! So she is a martyr, too, to the tyrant Fashion!-and, moreover, ladies' hats are useful. The little Goldbug wishes to shine, like the stars, at night, and so when the night comes, she emerges gloriously, minus the lat and curl-papers. And the charming, saicy, ildc- pendent, and more than all, wealthy little Goldbug is quite a belle, and has a train of admirers as long as the train of a comet.  The only blemish to the little Goldbug's beauty is an odd little  4..  .              .     62     SPARKLES FRO:IM SARATOGA. 1no10, which in vulgar life would be pronounced a decided pug, but which her fashionable dinirers designate as piquantly retrousse. Mamma Goldbug, with her unsophisticated heart, would fall an easy prey to the fortune-hunter, were she a widow. And as it is, she is only too apt to prove a good ally in winning her daughter's affection. But that young lady is not so easily to be hoodwinked. She has already refused a half dozen offers, and is in no hurry to rush iuto lmatrimony.. So this tall and elegant fortune-hunter, who wears a moustache and carries a cane, may woo mamma as assiduously as he can, but it is doubtful whether the sly little Goldbug will ever be caught in his wreb. We had a delightful drive yesterday to the Lale. We rowed across the water by moonlight and drank  , our fill of romance. Aunt Prilm and Bachelor Grumpy sat in the stern of the boat-Aunt Prim placilg the parasol between them for propriety's sakse-Madge and her latest adorer sat in the centre, and that dear fellow, Fitz Hugh, and myself in the bow of the boat. The stars were all twinklillg brightly in the sky, and the moon seemed to laugh as she mirrored herself in the little waves, and re- membered how nicely she eclipsed the sun the other day. We all follow the laws of nature; and what /1    FORTUNE-HUNTERS.    6-  man would expect to shine when a beautiful woman passed by? ladce's new admrirer is a dusky Cuban with maognificent dark eyes, the very beau ideal of a romantic lover. He is all enthusiasm, and all pa- triotism. He has a string of names as long as his pedigree, commencing with Luis Francisco. As we glided over the water, he sang a little Spanish love- ditty to which the oars kept time, dipping softly into the lake, and lifting the waves up in the starlight, to let them fall again in myriads of glittering drops. Poor Grumpy, overcome by the bewitchiin in- toxication of the hour, looked ready to fall at once upon his klnees before Aunt Prim, to deelare his devotion, in utter forgetfulness of the Widow Dash. And, under the circumstances, my paragon aunt mig]lt have accepted his adoration, and with downcast eyes and blushing checks might have vowed, by the srweet stars and the moon, to henceforth keep poor Crum- pys buttons in order! Yes, that's what a man ex- pects when he gets married. He gets a wife to keep his buttons in order. Fitz Iugh does not wear buttons; he wears diamond studs, and surely, no one could mind look- ing after thelm! Love-making is of course apropos to a moonliglt Love i0 11x     "    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. night lopon a lake. When I find time, I am going to give Fitz Hnugh a few lessons in the art. At present lie is chiefly absorbed in himself-and there is no need of being in haste, since amonlg so rmanly beauties at Saratoga, lhe might become too proficient. And one finds but little extra time at a watering,- place. Talk about work! Think of dressing five times a day; of riding, walking, or boating, flying fromn one amusement to another all day long-and then, when the day is over, of dancing until one or two o clock in the morning. If all this is not work, I should like to know what is?    f   , ,  X. THE G GOOD OLD TIMES.7 rTtE day commences at Saratoga with a visit to the Springss; and, whoever stands beside these ever- living fountains, watching the crowds of people that come and go, cannot but remember how   many have come hither during the past century, from the time when Washington  visited this place and thoug-ht of purchasingl it, up to the present lday, when pilgrims come from all parts of the world to drink of the sparkling waters. And how many feet which have come downv to the bubbling spring have passed long since from earth forever! iBut still the waters gush and bubble just as fresh, just as bright ans bg d sparkling as ever, like the little brook that sang-- ' And men may come and men may go, But I flow on forever." ,"  Aunt Prim declares that of all the springs there is none so refreshing, none whose taste is so pleasant, as the Hathorn. And really it would seem from her enthusiasm     "     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. about this spring that the dear old lady had found  a veritable Castalian fount in the land of the setting sun, which would briingl back the bloom  of her youth and cause her to live forever. Madge says she is not troubled with rheumatics, refuses to"taste of the waters at all, and thinks the best use the springs could be put to, would be to drown troublesome beaux in them! And this wicked girl visits them for the sole purpose of laughing at the wry faces of the novices as they set down their half-emptied glasses with a most comical grimace. We had a brilliant ball last night at the Congress. All the wit, beauty, elegance, and fashion in Saratoga were there. The evening commenced with a grand masquerade and fancy dress ball for the little folks. They entered  With the greatest zest and spirit into the affair. And, although the children in society are nowadays all min-  iature gentlemen and ladies, aping the airs and affec- tations of their elders, the little belles and beaux who figured at this ball were evidently brimming over with glee. And it did one's heart good to see their bright eyes sparkle witl all the happiness of child- hood, as they went flying through the dance with  little feet that scarcely touched the. floor, and fairy  ringlets fluttering in the waves of melody which  flowed from Bernsteins band.    THE  GOOD OLD TIMES., CS7 Like so many sprites from fairy land were the children, dressed in beautiful and fantastic g'arb, their silvery laughter ringing musically out and mingling with the chime of tiny silver bells, which, fastened on their costumes, kept time as they da ccld. We could not help wishing to be a c-ild again while gazilig upon this brilliant scene. The chiil- dreln's ball ended at 10.30, and then the floor was filled with the grown-lip people, women elegantly dressed, and men well-known to wealth anal fame. Every one seemed to be in their best mood, but the free, guileless mirth of the children was lacking. The foam  had simmered away from   the full goblet of life. There was no taste of the dregs at the bottom of the cup; but pleasure in fashiollable life soon loses its novelty, and every joy is welcomed without enthusiasm. There was, of course, at this ball a fine dis- play of elegant toilettes. The richest silks, point laces and diamonds, were by far too common to merit any special attention. And, alas! the more extravagant the beautiful dresses, the costher allc imore abundant the jewels, the oftener was the wearer of all these utterly dependent upon outward finery, upon mere ostentatious wealth, for wimiing :? t-4     68     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. recognition in the world. The blaze of brilliant diamonds cannot conceal the lack of those inner jewels of the soul, which shine out like stars, growing ever brighter as te   t-time eepes; the -rustle of costly silks cannot hide the frivolity of speech which jars so often upon the ear when mingling in the throng; nor all tke wealth of the Indies atone for the poverty of hmniL nature, when lacking in all that makes life truly rich eand worth living for. It is amusing sometifes to hear the dear little old ladies and their elderly escorts lamenting, with hearts that refuse to be comforted, the good old days when the United States Hotel existed   in  Saratoga, and where congregated all the bright particular stars of society. But if those cays were  really to return, it is doubtful if they would be found more attractive, or even half so replete with colnfort  and pleasure as are those of the present time. Think, my dear friend with the silvery hair, and the fond heart filled with longings for joys which can never  retnirn-thnk that the world is every clay growing  wiser and better, and that it is you who cling so tenaciously to the golden joys of the past, that you  often neglect to taste the sweeter pleasures of the i present.                     I Only remember, at the good old United States,"   THE "GOOD OLD TIMES.)9     69 the weary stairs you had to climb; the small, ul- comfortable rooms to which you resigned yourself perhaps without a murmur ; when now, if you wish to go from the lowest to the highest floor of these immense hotels, you hav  only to ring the bell, and a beautiful coach, gilded and frescoed, with cushions covered with velvet, awaits your bidding, and you are carried to your own floor without the slightest effort of your own. Is not this splendid invention of the elevator the realization of Cinderella's fairy coach, which she suimnmoned at will in the days of yore? And then the rooms you have-no longer small and crowded, but large, airy, and beautifully fur- nished-lplenty of attention without paying a fee for every morsel you taste, and so on, my dear aged friend, through a number of advantages which the present has over the past, and which, perhaps, I could better describe had I myself lived in the "good old times" ytou so lament. There is one relic of the past here at Saratoga to Iwhom every patriotic heart must turn with loviilg veneration and fondness. This is the widow  of a General of revolutionary fame, a dear, charmill, old lady, who rejoices truly in a delightful old age, surrounded lby hosts of devoted friends.     70     SPARKLES FROiOM SARATOGA. How few lives, like hers, glide beautifully and serenely down the stream of life! Long may she  live to clasp the hands of those who seek to do her  ho1mage; to be a link between the dark days of our country's early struggles and the glorious golden future which is spread out before her. There is a great deal said, and undoubtedly with truth; about feminine folly as displayed in extrava- gance of dress at watering-places, but folly should not always be represented as a woman. Does it become a man to carry a lady's parasol; to wear a long veil; or to sport a feather in his hat?  Surely, if we are encroaching upon man's sphere, he is becoming jealous of the little accessories women are fond of using to heighten their claims to beauty. Since this seems to be the case, I woulc advise my dear sisters to award these ambitious mnen the orna-  ental (?) chignon they have discarded, that for lack  of brains the fashionable exquisite may cultivate his hair.  What has become of the chignon?  Ask of the rag-menl who go their dreary rounds  and jangle its dirge with bells all out of tune, as they '. shovel them in, shovel them in!'        i Surely here is a theme fit to inspire the heart '   TH E ; GOOD OLD TIMES."     71 and pen of some enthusiastic poet, who las allowed his heart to be ensnared, alas! too oft, by false alluring curls. The chignon is happily among the things which are no more, but false eyebrows have come in. Eyebrows which are so constructed as to bristle with indignation when a lover wAith an empty purse dares to plead his cause, and yet ldroop with pitying air when love, whose coffers are full of goll, breathes forth its plaint at beauty's feet. These wonderful eyebrows are said to possess the merit of hastening proposals. Madge says she will never patronize them for that very reason alone, since courtship is the sweetest time in life, and should be prolonged indefinitely. Lovers are charming-but thus balds and bears are ay'nonymous! Naughty Madge! She is having a desperate flirtation with a handsome Colonel, and, peeping into her mirror this morning, was thrown into hvs- terics by discovering that she had a horrid pimple on the tip of her nose. I wonder if the Colonel has bravery enough to overlook this unlucky, and decidedly mhalcapropqos sortie against Mad ce's bewitchingi beauty. I really must lay aside my pen, nL td go down to ,'.t . "     72     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.        ; the piazza and see. There is nothing in the world so invincible as a womazn's curiosity, it is said, and I repeat the adage, adding-except a man's. Nevertheless, Aunt Prim is taking a nap, and it is plainly my duty to chaperone Miiss Madge. And who knows what Fitz Hugh is about while I sit here scribbling?   XIL IN TIlE PAnK. JUST as I told you in my last, I found that way- ward Madge flirting desperately upon the piazza with the Colonel. There was a look of thrilling disappointment, upon the faces of the two, however, which I at first attributed to my sudden appearance; but I soon founld that Madge and the Colonel had been down to take a ramble in the Park, and lo! they were denied admittance. Now it is well known that the gentle deer roam freely over the velvety lawn of the Park; but just at this tnie one of these soft-eyed, amiable creatures is shedding his horns, and refuses to allow any one to approach him. It isethought that his temper has been spoiled by the example set him by the capricious belles and intractable youths who are wont to ramble through the park. However this may be, the park was closed to the public, and a grim policemlan stationed at the entrance, who "rose to explain5' probably j 4  \     L74   SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. much oftener than was agreeable to him, and the lordly deer was left "monarch of all he surveyed." This is the reason that Madge and the Colonel did not enjoy the ramble through this Arcadian grove which they had anticipated. But to-day-the irascible young deer haviing been placed in durance vile, until he can learn to appre- ciate the aristocracy of Saratoga society and deport himself becomingly--to-day we had a delightful ramble in this same park. And .what a charming spot it is! How green and smooth the sward, how majestic the tall forest trees, clad in ever-living green ; how cool and inviting its shtaded, sequestered nooks, its green, velvety banks,  its dark, romantic dells!            i) Ah, yes, all this is truly delightful, and affords a charming taste of rural pleasures after mingling in the gay world at the hotel. But, alas! for "the slip 'twixt the cup and the lip," scarcely have you advanced on the smooth, hard walk, under the shadow of the first tree, when you are warned by a printed placard, "Do not touch the shrubbery " If you have intended to gather a few green leaves to form a wreath for your hat, or a sprig of ever- green to place in your button-hole as ia souvenir of I   IN THE PARK.        75 Saratoga, you are doomed to be disappointed; for you are instantly confronted with "Do not walk on the grass." Just as though people who have grown weary from travelling for years over hot and hard pave- mrellts would not luxuriate in treading once more the green carpet of Nature, fresh and beautiful as ever, and bringing back the sweet lmenrories of childhood's days. Well, there still remained the gently sloping banks, covered with sparse verdure. Madge and the Colonel evidently fancied that they might rest in one of these sequestered spots and have a little chat all by themselves, with nobody but the squirrels and birds for eaves-droppers. But no! a peremptory order to "Keep off the bank " loomed up at their very feet. Fitz Hugh said that in the face of such deter- mined opposition to a fellow's enjoying himself, he was inclined to do something desperate, and would endeavor to hug one of the marble statues which stood so silent and grim above us; but he should object to being horrified by a sepulchral voice ex- claiming in his ear, "Let me alone!" Fitz Hugh and " yours truly" not being given to sentiment, didn't mind, you will perceive, the pro-     s76   SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. hibitions of the park; but then it was so hard upon poor Madge and the Colonel. There is just one seat in all this extensively culti- vated wilderness, upon which two people are al- lowed to sit together. That is, to sit near each other, for all the other seats are so arranged as to place you about ten feet from some one to whom you would perhaps like to wiispeer. No ineed of their putting up a placard with- "Don't flirt here "-in this park, for could anything be more suggestive of such a command than these seats, which have the air of defying each other? It was quite evident that one pair of youthful lovers looked forward with longing eyes and beating hearts to that one seat--and lo! when we arrived there w\ho should be occupying the self-same seat but Bachelor Grumpy and Aunt Prim! It was too much! In fact, it was rather an em- barrassing affair on all sides, silce Aunt Prim had given out that she was going to take c nap ; and besides, the dear old lady does not look with favor- able eyes upon the Colonel, which, of course, only makes him the more precious in Madge's eyes. That girl is surely afflicted with brass buttons on . the brain. :!   , , 3 , .          ; IN TITE PARK.       " Not far from this one solitary lovers' seat, is a small circle of ground, with a few old trees upon it, so old that their verdure has nearly all disap- peared, and there remains only a crown of withered leaves upon their tall tops; and here there is a sign put up, which informs the children that they clll '"play upon the grass within the circle." Ilow thankful the dear children ought to be for this inestimable privilege! But I should like to see them gather ten spears of real, genuine grass in that circle. To roll and tumble about the green lawns in true childish fashion in the park, to chase the bright- eyed squirrels over the banks, and frolic with the deer, would undoubtedly do the little folks who come here to spend the season a world of good. But no! Young America dresselike  s papa, car- ries a cane, wears a watch, and sports a diamond ring. What does he care for rolling in the grass or making mud pies? His little sister is dressed as elaborately as her stately mammla; and what with her parasol, her fan, aind gloves, has no hands at liberty to pull either flowers or weeds. Neither has she the faint- est idea in the world of the meaning of a genuine romp.     78     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. To listen to a group of these youngsters convers- i ing, would inspire you with the idea that you were in the midst of a party of elderly dwarfs. Aunt Prim attributes the serenity of her nerves to the plentiful drinkilg of the spring waters. Madge and I fancy that Bachelor Grumpy's recent arrival has something to do with it. But, being discreet young ladies, we have never hinted our opinions to Aunt P. We have a real live count and countess at our hotel. , "Buut, la! said an old lady this morning. "I don't see but they look just like other folks; dress i like other folks; and the only good sense I've seen about them is, that when the count swears, he spares the English language, and uses his native tongue." j    "'  ,  i, i  E ::5-      XI . XII. THE GEYSER SPRING. THERE is one fact which must always be a source of pathetic regret to any one spending the season at Saratoga, and that is that the human hand is un- luckily so constructed as to allow only eiglt fingers for the display of diamond rings! It is really painful to notice how much of gold, and what a number of gems, one poor finger is re- quired to bear. Now, if Dame Fashion would only bring thumbs -':, into vogue as ring-fingers, that they also miight blaze with jewels, wrhat an inestimable relief it would be to those ladies who not only wear huge cluster rings upon every finger, but also inter- sperse these with some half dozen or more golden circlets, ornamented with emeralds, rubies, etc etc. Or, since a pride in costly jewels seems to be the ruling passion in so niany hearts, why not resign the nose to be adorned with gems as well as the ears? It would be quite as Christian a custom, and     80     SPAEKLES FROAM SARATOGA. would certainly offer one more chance to dazzle the eyes of society with brilliancy. Alas, for the days when gems were worn, not for ornament alone, but for the occult meaning which flashed iln their lambent fires. There is not a spark of sentiment in most of the jewels which blaze in Saratoga. They serve merely to enhance beauty, and as tokens of ostentatious wealth. Iow many ladies watch the glow in their dia- monds to learn of the truth or falseness of the giver? How many dream  that the opal, with its rainbow tints, brings ill-luck to the wearer? How many feel the charmed spell which the emerald sheds around it; or see the heart-drops of some loved one in the blood-red ruby? Those who wear jewels right royally, wear them not for their beauty and value alone, but also for the deep significance they bear. Yesterday we had a charming drive to the Geyser Spring. Aunt Prim was far too dignified to ride in the public stage, and as she rolled along in state over the sandy country road in her elegant barouche, complacent as a full-blown sunflower, with Bachelor Grumpy seated beside her, she expatiated upon the beauty of the scenery.   ,;: :THE ;GEYSE         SPRING.      81 Probably she meant the bachelor, as she had not her glasses on, and therefore her eyes were unavail- able for looking beyond the barouche.' Madge and I preferred the stage with the rest of our party. What a crowd there was in that stage! There was the Fat Boy, who took up so much room, and -La Petite, who was arrayed in such an elaborately fluted and be-ruffled dress that she was in constant horror lest the Fat .Boy should sit too close, and Madge, who didn't care a snap for the ruffles on her dress, had no thought for the enormous sash she wore, and therefore rumpled it terribly. But what else could be expected of a young lady, who has gilt buttons on the brain, and who gives all her precious time to flirting with the Colonel? The Geyser Spring is one of the greatest curiosi- ties in Saratoga. The water comes spouting uip from the earth, rising to a height of thirty or forty feet, and, breaking into a misty spray, falls in mil- lions of jewelled drops, with a musical, tinkling sound, back to the fount again. One jet of this water is thrown into a large crystal globe, where it surges and boils without ceasing--a veritable witches' caldron. Madge suggests that this water is kept boiling by the subterranean fires at which the Gnomes, the     82     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Trolls, and all those funny little underground folks are cooking their dinners. The Fat Boy laughed himself into a shower of perspiration at this odd fancy of Madge's, which made Fitz Hugh terribly nervous. Fitz Hugh never laughs-he only dawns an aristocratic smile upon you! After we had exhausted our admiration upon the spouting water, snuffed up the carbonic acid gas which; arises from its depths, quaffed each other's happiness from its sparkling goblets, and inspected the vast number of broken bottles this vivacious fluid destroys before it submits to the loss of its freedom--after all this, the man who attends the spring, struck by the imposing presence of the Fat Boy, the faultless propriety of La Petite's cos- tume, the sparkling eyes of AMiss Madge, and the aristocratic air of the company generally, pathetically begged us to sit a few moments for our pictures. Unthinking of coming martyrdom, we complied. We were seated just back of the silvery falling mist of the Spring, told that it would require about five minutes to take a good picture, and warned not to move. Oh, what an impostor that man was! For twenty long minutes st least we sat there, im- movable as statues.   THE GEYSER SPRING.       83 The weather was frightfully warmn; streams of glistening drops rolled down the poor Fat Boy's face, and a fly alighted upon the tip of his nose, and refused to spread his wings for flight; and yet the Fat Boy was forbidden to move! Aunt Prim sat upright and rigid as an icicle, and Bachelor Grumpy, unused to keeping quiet, ner- vously twitched his toes, because, as he said after- ward, he "thought they wouldn't show in the pict- ure," which unfortunate remark absolutely horrified Aunt Prim. Minute after minute rolled away, and every see- onld seemed an hour, until we, who had sat down smiling, became as sombre and grave as so many Egyptian mummies. Never will you catch our party sitting for pict- ures again at Geyser Spring. This spouting water was recently discovered, and is claimed to possess more medicinal properties than any other Spring. The taste of the water is very much like that of the Hlathorn Spring, and is gener- ally liked. A short distance from the Geyser is the White i Sulphur Spring. ;:--:  Why it should be called white is a mystery, since the water has a yellowish tint, and tastes as though J:'l c ,  o     84     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  Pluto and his imps had been wont to slake their thirst at the stream before it found its way upward  to the sunlight. The water is remarkably clear.  These two springs are located in a romantic wood; near by is a pretty fall of foam-crested water, and a stream beneath as clear and limpid as a mirror, spannied by two slender bridges which creaked wofully as the Fat Boy passed over, and af- forded a charming opportunity for Aunt Prim to display a little nervousness, and to cling closely to her escort's arm. Crossing that bridge by moonlight might induce the Bachelor to propose. I'd like to mention it to Aunt P., but she would overpower me with her wrath. What a fall from the sublime to the ridiculous! The Count and Countess just arrived from Paris, whom all the beau monde were dying to see, have opened a jeweller's shop here on Broadway. Think of it, foreign nobility catering to the wants of a republic! Sic transit gloria rmundi /   XIII. AFTER DINNER. TImE greatest flirts in Saratoga are the married men-especially those who have left their faithful wives at home. "Go to the sea-side, dear, or to some waterilg- place, and don't mind me. I'll stay at home, but you need recreation from business; so go." The obedient husband complies, and generally contrives to enjoy himself, according to the wishes of his absent spouse. "But unfortunately all the Benedicts do not belong to the class whose wives are aware of their where- abouts. Next to the married men-(married women have too much conscience usually to flirt)-the widows are pronounced to be the nearest aufctit in the art of heart-breaking. There is nothing like a gay widow for creating a sensation wherever she appears. And the widows usually have no remorse for the pangs which pierce the hearts of their adorers. Iaving been themselves the victims of some man's caprices,     86     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  they solace their loneliness by revenging themselves upon the masculine sex in general by the most  wicked coquetry. "Sainivel, beware of the vidders!" said the anxious parent to his son, and all "Samivels " would perhaps do well to follow this advice. The sultriness of the dog days is upon us here as well as in the far-off Gotham, but there is ever a cool, delightful breeze to be enjoyed upon the piazzas, or a safe retreat from the fervid sun to be found in the quiet shadows of the Park. And there are always the cold, invigorating waters of the springs, free to all, where every one  may come to slake his thirst, and fancy or believe, that some magic power lurks in the sparkling waters which may restore the lost bloom of youth, bring  i health and rosiness to the pale invalid, and pour  inspiration into the weary brain of the thinker.  If there be really any merit in mineral waters of inestimable value to man, it surely ought to be found in these cool, bubbling fountains. It may be written down as a fact, that very many elderly men and women, habitue's of Saratoga, speak volumes in themselves of the marvellous efficacy of the Spring waters, since in no other place seems ever to be gathered so many " immense" men 4   AFTER DINNER.        87 and women of advanced years as here. This is a subject of general remark, and many a new arrival of a mioclern gialt or giantess forces us to ask, Are we returning to the days of the Titans? One of the pleasantest hours of the day is after dinner, when the people gather upon the piazza of Congress Hall to listen to the music of' the band. This is one of the features of the place. A regular programime is published every day, and throlgs of people come from  the neighboring hotels to listen. It is truly an hour for the dolce far niente, when one may indulge in the most fanciful day-dreams, sitting under the shade of a parasol or of a broad- brimmed hat, and linking golden thoughts of love and romance together with dulcet strains of melody. How gently floats love's young and ardent dream upon the waves of song! It would be cruel to tell of all the endless flirta- tions which are carried on under the influence of music upon the piazza. M' adge's black eyes have allost annihilated me already for mentioning her and the Colonel, and so, reluctantly, I forbear to speak of hearts forever ensnared or cruelly broken, while the delicious music throws its weird spell over all.     88     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. The favorite employment of the ladies at this time is working in bright-colored worsteds. What monn-  ments of patience and industry they are! The poor dears! Iow quietly they accept the compliments bestowed upon their skill in weaving ; the gorgeous flowers and birds with brilliant plum - age, which adorn the bit of canvas upon whch they work. It is rather wicked to open the eyes of their admiring adorers to the fact that tlese elaborate i patterns are all wrought in the fancy stores, alnd Miss Industry sets about the simple task of filling  up the groundwork!  The usual amount of labor performed by these industrious ladies after dinner may be estimated as? averaging three stitches a day!  . The old ladies here are as gay and youtlhful as  the unmarried belles. Youth may be expected to go the round of fashion- able dissipation with unfaded cheeks, but it is won-  derful to see how the old ladies mingle in all the  festivities of Saratoga, and apparently enjoy them- I selves with the gayest of the gay.  5Well may the youthful belle look to her laurels,  for who so elaborately dressed, so be-puffed, be- ruffled, be-ribboned, be-jewelled, as the rich old   AFTER DINNER.        g9 lady who comes to pass the season at Saratoga? If she be a beaming, good-natured widow, what scores of ancient adorers she counts in her trai! If married, she becomes the centre of a bevy of elderly dames wlho admire and envy her dresses, her carriage, her jewels, and flatter her into the belief that she is looking " just as young as ever." Aunt Prim has reformed-that is, she now con- sents to add propriety to the ball-room by her august presence, while last year she would have filled the air with thunder-clouds by her frowns in such a scene. JBut who could object to a ball when the band plays such enchanting music? So bewitchinio a charm mi ght tempt even the most scrupulous to join in the naughty waltz, and even Aunt Prim some- times forgets to frown on Madge as she goes whirl- ing by upon the arm of some adorer. It may easily be believed that "music hath charms to sooth the savage breast," if it can softenl the prejudices of Aunt Prim. Not that the dear old lady is at all savgce, but then she is so terribly set in her ways. And such people do sometimes possess the faculty of making other people dccidedly uncomfortable. ,. \     90     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. For how can one be expected to shine when there is always a thunder-cloud gathering? There is a strange mixture of piety and frivolity at the Springs. While hundreds of people come expressly to dance and make merry every passing hour, just as many others come to point out the wickedness and folly of worldly pleasures, and the fearful brevity of time. You may leave the crowded parlor, filled with a brilliant throngO of richly dressed women and courtly men of the world, where the glitter of the lamps, the huin of many voices, the merry laugh, the innocent jest, and the soft tones of music stealing in from the ball-room, all conspire to lend a witching charm to the hour, and to make every one happy within himnself; and just a little way up the street, not five minutes' walk, you may enter ac church just as crowded as the brilliant drawing-room you have left, and there you will be told that all worldly pleasures are sinful; that the awful day of judgment approaches, and that all should flee from the wrath to come. But when the hour of worship is over, many of these church-goers return to the hotels and mingle with the wicked world they have just heard denounced, without apparently the least fear of corruption from "evil communications.."    '/:           XIV. ADONIS AT THE IBALL. THE young gentlemen visiting Saratoga think of holding a meeting for the purpose of demanding their rights. among these fashionable youths from the fact that they have appeared at every evening hop and ball of the season in the most elaborate attire, alnd yet not the slioghtest mention of their appearance has been made in the papers. If young ladies complain that they have not been nant young men say at this shameful neglect of them In order that this state of things shall .exist no more, and that wounded vanity may be soothed, we  will atter--t to describe "a few of the toilettes ball. Madge has agreed to furnish a few notes. Fitz Hugh says that his name is not to be men-     92     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. tioned, therefore we leave to fancy the task of por- traying the appearance of this charming youth upon this particular occasion. Let it suffice to say that ! Fitz Hugh is always adorable. Mr. Snifkins, a keen young lawyer from   the  South, was tastefully dressed in a claw-hammer  coat, lavender pantaloolls, lavender necktie, patent- leather boots, and his imposing forehead was uncon- cealed by an excess of hair. Yellow moustache, decidedly en trai7n, gracefully drooping two inches  over his lips.           ' Don Carlos Louis Pietro Valmaseda y de Castro, a  tall young Spaniard with a distinygzt air, wore a  black frock coat, light pantaloons, white necktie,  and his mass of black hair brushed upright, a la  Pomnpadour.  Madge was much impressed by his appearance, and thought she would like to have a flirtation with  this dark-eyed youth, but Miss Airs said he was too fierce, and that she would be absolutely afraid i? of him.  Fitzaddle was as gushing as ever, in a new    ir swallow-tail, black inexpressibles, heavenly-blute  cravat, side-whiskers, and moustache dressed with elaborate care. Bald on the crown of his head.  Young Gingersnap caused a flutter of admiration  ck vuuj V(.JLIIw----'   ADONIS AT TIIE BALL.      93 among a bevy of belles as he entered the room, bringing the perfumed spices of Araby with himl and presenting the most faultless toilette of the evening. Blaclk, swallow-tailed coat-French swal- low, not American-black double-perpendiculars, white vest, inimitable linen, diamond solitaire studs, and cravat of white point-lace. Hair parted in the middle ; ambrosial curls arranged in profusion upon each side. White kids. Gingersnap is said to be the handsomest man in New York. Of course he is one of the " reignin g" beaux of Saratoga.  It is estimated that lie has broken at least a thousand tender hearts during this Season. The poor dears! It is not yet certain which has most captivated them, the ambrosial curls or the diamond solitaires. 1Mr. Lirmberflap seemed to be the next favorite with the young ladies, being a pale, melancholy- looking youth, addicted to writing verses, and also perfectly versed in the art of making complinents. His general character may perhaps be best de- scribed as being slightly entu8sed. Limberflap wears eye-glasses, and has met with a sad loss of hair. In fact, the excess of bald heads and weak eyes     "    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. among the young men who visit Saratoga is no doubt to be attributed to the overflow of ideas and the great mental labor performed by them. Claw-hammer coats and bald heads may be safely said to be a distinguishing feature of every fashionable ball. As we lhae not time at present to particularize ' futrther as to masculine toilettes at the ball, we will  only mention a few names of those present: Mr. Goldfinch, the "catch" of the season, whose ' father revels in gold mines, etc.; Mr. Adolphus  Swantree, who flushes his cheeks with paint, alld  powders his hair upon full-dress occasions; Judge - Darling, who has been twenty years to Saratoga in  search of a rich wife, and has not as yet found her.  Poor fellow! IIowfstrange that no one is willing to  become " the old man's Darling!" Fitz Iugh has conceived a horrid idea. lie  talks of having the back of his head shaved, since nearly every young man in fashionable life has a bald spot upon the top of his head. In fact, a young man is scarcely considered eligible, unless he has lost his hair and wears eye-glasses-these  being received as almost indisputable evidence that he has-always moved in the best society. Now that we have paid due homage to masculine    ADONIS AT THE BALL.       95 finery, and have fairly represented Adonis at the ball, we turn our thoughts to the fairer sex, and to the marvellous gait which is now in vogue with our belles. But are we able to adequately describe this latest acquirement in this fine art of walkingg? Alas! our pen falters, and our courage fails before the arduous task. What young lady can, for one moment, imagcine that she appears gracefaul as she moves up and down the long piazza with the Saratoga wryiggle? The old ladies and the children are the only feminines who deign to walk naturally.  The young belle, as she promenades, draws a long train behind her, this train being surmounted by a be- wildering arrangemrent of puffs, ruffles, etc., styled apanier; and resting upon all this, is a bright- colored sash of marvellous width. Now this almost indescribable confusion of dry-goods is twitched, first to the right, then to the left; then it receives a gentle shake, very like to that which an old hen gives in settling her ruffled feathers! And this, as near as I can convey any idea of it, is the Saratoga wriggle! With her head erect, her body bent forward, her little feet tilted up in dainty slippers with heels three inches high, the Saratoga belle ambulates up     96     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. and down the piazza,.now smiling, and 'now frown- i ing upon her crowd of admirers, who do their  best to escape being tripped up in. the folds of her long train.                    ! Ah, me! I wonder if they succeed as well in escaping the entanglement of her bewilderingl charms?  I have to keep a sharp lookout upon Fitz Iughll! I should be sorry to see the dear fellow so egregi- ously taken in, as he might be, did I not kindly  play the duenna over him.  If any young mana is indulgingl himself with fond dreams of marrying one of these faslionable beau-  ties, I would advise him not to be rash, but to in-  vest in a large doll, which le mlay dress in rich  silks, and decorate with costly gems; may furnish  with curls, braids, "switches," and "rats," paint alnd  powder, slippers, fans, and gloves cad?Tzinftnig and set it up in his heart to adore!          i I think he would find his doll quite as much of a companion, and certainly a less expelsive one, than his fair Saratoga belle would prove herself to be. 1 1'   I I      MISS AIRS.    Xv. MSS A IRS. WE had a new divertissement ill Saratoga last evening. The gas suddenly went out, and the thousands of people assemblled here were left, to their great dismay, in the dark. The ladies were busily engaged in preparingl for the grand ball an1- nonnced for that evening, and great was the ,e- wilderment of hair-dressers aidc ladies' maids, to say nothing of the disappointment of their fair mis- tresses. The ball, of course, was postponed, and(I everybody clamored for the "Saratoga Dip." The "Dip" soon appeared, in the shape of in- numerable candles which cast a dim, mysterious light through the great parlors, and the vast halls becaime' the scene of many a ghostly terror, siclle there was nothing to relieve the grim darkness, save, now and then a sable waiter appearing far in tlbe distance bearing a twinkling taper, his great eyes rolling horribly and his white apron fluttering in the gloom like the garb of a oghost. In the parlors the young people, and, I dare say, 5     98     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. the old, also, inproved the opportunity for carrying  on sly flirtations, and so great was the colnfusion that the Colonel came very near hugging Alunt Prim in the dark instead of HMiss Madge. It was aniusinlu to hear the excuses and apologies offered as soon as the lights appeared. The untimely failure of the gas, after all, afforded a great fund of amusement to those people who are inclined to look cheerfully uponl the bright side of even a tallow dip. A  '"shadow dance" was improvised in the parlor as being exceedingly cp2iro)os to the occasion. The  presence of an English nobleman created quite a flutter among the belles. Miadge snubbed the Colonel dreadfully when she captured the " live lord," and walked away with hiln  to try the effect of Republican eyes in conquering an English aristocrat. How she succeeded I am unable to say, but she says he's "nice," and just as good as though he were not a lord. I must not omit to mention among  the distinguished people who attended the last ball, i the presence of Miss Airs, and Mr. and Mrs. Puff y. Miss Airs, as is her wont, appeared in a most elaborate toilette. This, the pen of a graphic  writer might easily describe, but were I asked to  mention one-half of the infinite number of arts and   MSS AIRS.         99 wiles, of frowns nd smiles, of studied graces and endless caprlices, withl whicll Miss Airs contrives to captivate her adorers, I should expire u pon the spot. And then her walk, as she promenaded arlould the ball-room, the "observed of all observels!" The Grecian Bend has passed awray; but whlat name shall be given to the new deformit  whicll foolish womlen attach to their backs to impart ,what they consider style to their costumlle? Truly the camel has somle exue e for weal iln . since from it he gaills both snstelnalc nl strength to support him tl1hougl long journeys; bitt of what use is the monstr os A ,Mnp whichll :iss Ails considers as indispensable to a full-dress toilette, ex- cept it be a vade ,recurn of feedinl, foolish pridd ? With face and neck both powelred and painted ; with hair frizzled to the last degree of the co;z. .s art; with shoulders raised ald brought forwa.; ; with body inclined to an obtuse angle, the better t, follow an obtuse head; with pcn'lcr so arra,lcl as to extendcl two feet iln the rear over a coult trail which sweeps the flool, Miss Airs;, leanlinr ,pn tl e arm of her dear Addlepate, sets forth for a proml-l l acs e. For long, mortal hours lhas she practised before     100    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  her mirror, and now witness the triumph of her skill in the art of walking. The right foot is placed forward-then follows a halt-then the, left is brought suddenly up with a twitch which gives an indescribable motion to the ribbols and laces upon the hump, and causes a gen-  eral flutter of ruffles and flounces, which forbids the idea of the elaborate toilette of Miss Airs ever being lost in its wearer. To nothing under heaven may the walk of ]Miss Airs, as she sallies around the ball-room, be coin- pared, except to the proud strutting of the peacockI as it spreads its brilliant plumage for admiration. Saratoga has its "Bridge of Smiles" which spans the street about fifty feet above the ground and con-  nects the ball-room of Congress Hall with the hotel. Upon festive nights it is spread with a rich carpet, and illumlinated with Chinese lanterns of various colors. If the night be stormy, the bridge is pro- tected by an awning, but if fine, it affords a rare  opportunity for contemplating the starry heavens, or for a pair of lovers to whisper soft nothings into each other's ears while they pretend to be watching  the moon. In fact, no more romantic place for a moonlight  flirtation could well be imagined than this beautiful    MSS AIRS.        101 bridge, with its swinging lights, with its far-off canopy of blue studded with twinklilng stars, and the soft, delicious music of the band floating out upon the night from the brillianft ball-room. If there were not always that Argus-eyed ticket- man at the other end of the bridge to spoil the romance Many a time have I heard young Limberflap com- plain of the heat of the room after a dance, and beg Miss Airs to come for a few minutes upon the bridge. Limberflap, as we have said, is a sentimental youth who is given to writing verses. But if le needs the presence of Miss Airs upon the bridge to inspire him when he composes ditties to the m1oo1l, then those ditties will lack inspiration, for Miss Airs always remembers that ticket-man, and gently refuses. Besides, she is not much given to romance, and she has enough of Limberflap's adoring glances in the ball-room, without endangering the starch in her muslins, and the crimp in her hair, out there in the damp. There are other reasons also for Miss Airs refusing to walk upon the bridge with Limberflap. The end of the season is drawing, near, and there is Snipkins, the "only son of his father," and that     102     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. father a millionaire, and Miss Airs has not as yet made the slightest impression upon his heart. What will her mother say? This may be her last season at Saratoga, for the finances of the family  are running low, and one cannot be turning old   silks forever! Should Snipkins ask her to walk upon the bridge, regardless either of the damp air or of the ticket-man, she would go. The masquerade ball liad been looked forward to by this rather 2passe belle as affording her one last grand opportunity of appearing in a new phase, in which she might possibly captivate Snipkins. She clhose the costume of a Swiss shepherdess, and im- agined herself to be the very personification of in- nocence and loveliness. But whoever saw a rural maiden walking with a crook in her back, instead of in her hands-and her hands swinging from the wrists in that peculiar style known as the Droop? But where was Snipkins at the ball? His indi-  I vildality was for a brief time lost in that of a Spanish cavalier. But, alas! forgetting himself for a moment, he raised his hat, and although he still retained his mask, Miss Airs knew him. His bald head betrayed him! That was a happy moment for Araminta, and she   MSS AIRS.        103 improved it. She managed to inspire Snipkills itlh a terrible state of curiosity as to her identity, ald just as sure as "'pity is akiln to love," so is curi- osity akin to a desperate flirtation. Where were Snipkins' eyes that he failed to recolgnize that affected walk and those languishing hands? Alas for Love, that he is blild! Mrs. Ptffy returned froln her trip to Lake George on purpose to attend this masquerade ball. She was bent on beguiling the ancient Pulffy into some sly love-making under the mask that she might tease him forever after about it. IBut lo! in the bewilderment of dominos and masques, of clowns and harlequins, Iumpty-Dumpties, Satais, tambourine girls and pretty shephercesses, dukes  and jockeys, lighland laddies amd bluebeards, coll- trabands and cavaliers-among all these Puffy was not to be found. He knew enougl not to uncover hi s little bald pate, and, as the evening wore away, Mrs. Puffy be- came exceedingly anxious lest her spouse should be enacting the fond lover to some one else instead of to herself, as she lad intended. And no doubt he was! Poor Mrs. Puffy! An amusing incident which     104     SPARKEI,S FROMZ SARATOGA. occurred during her foreign tour was related to us to-day. It is too good to keep. Visiting an artist's studio in Rome, Mrs. Puffy ' became muchl interested in a painting representing David killinlg Goliath. Noting its rather cingy appearance, she said to the artist: "That must be quite an old picture." "CAbout a hundred years old," was the reply. "Al! painted by the old mas- ters, then," exclailmed Mrs. Puffy. "TV/^y, it mnts be a, iladonna!"               - " What Mrs. Puffy's ideas of a Madonna were at that moment as she cast another admiring glance at the huge form of Goliath expiring at the feet of David, it would be impossible to conjecture.  ,           .        I:   XVI. THE SARATOGA DROOP. NOT to have acquired the Saratoga Droop, is to be shockingly behiind the fashionable spirit of the age. Miss Airs has it to perfection. I caught Fitz Hugh himself this morning trying to catch it. Young Limberflap, the favorite of all the young ladies who are so happy as to know him, being rather a lady-like young fellow as well as an acknowledged lady-killer, does it beautifully. Put some unsophisticated people, some one whose education does not keep up to the fashionable improvements (?) of the day, may not exactly under- stand what the Saratoga Droop is. Therefore, O Muse, inspire my pen that it may teach the stupid world the sublime art of carryingc its hands in such a manner as unmistakably to ex- press I've nothing to do! That is what the hands say here, and that is why the Saratoga Droop is so popular. And this is the way they do it: The elbows are 5'     106     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. pressed closely against the sides, the lower parts of the arms are then raised toward the chest, and the hands hang listlessly forward. The tout ensemble of the Droop is very much like the wings of a chicken prepared for a broil. This position of the hands does very well for the display of diamond rings; also for the fan whichI danlgles from one hand, and the dainty white mzou- choir which droops flrom the other. But the principal object of thus carrying the hands is, as I have mentioned before, simply to express- that such hands have notring to do-are idle hands, listless hands; hands that lay hlold of  nothing earnest in life, and lhave but a limp, feeble touch for even the pleasures they strive to grasp. Spealing of hands as being indicative of char- acter, it is odd to reflect what an opportunity for studying the different phases of human nature is afforded by such a dance as the last figure in the Lancers. The touch of no two hands is alike; one touches your fingers lightly, as though fearful of crushing rose leaves; another clasps your hand warmly, a momentary welcome, and an adieu, from a stranger whom  you pass in the journey of life; a third catches your hand with a quick grasp and drops it   THE SARATOGA DROOP.     107 suddlenly-as one who picks up pelbles and casts them away again, having imistaken theln for gems. But the fourth and last is the cold, damp touch of a lifeless hand, which sends a disagreeable chill to one's heart. People with such hands should always wear gloves, for contact with the cold skin of a toad could not be more disagreeable, or more suggestive of the horrors of cavernous tombs! My friend S. who, though something satirical, is by no means ill-natured, has taken up the matter of the Droop, and complains bitterly of the custom among ladies, both dames and damsels, which some have happily designated as the "Kaangaroo flop." And this is what he has to say: "What caGn be more ungraceful than the fashion of carrying the hands in that elevated, far-reaching manner, and looking as if they were dislocated at the wrists? And yet nearly half the women, old and young, have caught the foolish trick, and--(see there, for example?)-go dangling their hands before them, much like so many walking kangaroos, and exactly like so many Shaker saints as they appear in tleir ridiculous devotional dances. "But then the poor kangaroos have the excuse of     1308    SPARUIKLES FROM SARATOGA. nature, and the Shakers the plea of religion, while  their imitators have no apology whatever, save that other poor fools are doing the same thing; that, in  short, it is 'the fashion' at present; just as the pre- posterous 'back stoop' was for a season, three or  four years ago.                   t "We all know that likeness-taking paper-cutters  i were the death of the stooping abomination ; why don't the same excellent executioner kill off the human kangaroo in the same way? . le could do it in ten days, and do 'society' an incalculable service." But Saratoga has the infection of a worse vice, or folly, than the droop, and that is, fashionable slang. Just an hour ago, while walking upon the piazza, we overheard the remark, "My dear, you've got a 1bunged-up eye!"We turned, expecting to see some female member of the canaille who had lost her way and strayed among refined people, when lo! we beheld a woman dressed in the height of  fashion, with costly laces upon her garb, and with rich jewels gleaming in rivalry of a pair of bright dark eyes. It was evidently she wh-o had made use of the above elegant expression!   THE SARATOGA DROOP.      109 "It don't pay!" is a phrase so commlon with both nmen and women, as scarcely to be noticed as a slang phrase; still it might be inferred from this universally used remark that we were a selfish, pen- urious people, who thoulght nothng worthl undertak- ing or accomplishing unless it would pay! "It does-n't pay!" may suit the coarse lips of al ig- norant man, but it ill becomes the rosy mouth of a youthful belle. "It's perfectly dreadful!" Most horrible!" ' The awfullest thing you ever heard!" are expres- sions constantly used by young ladies of the day to express very simple and  commonpllace affairs. And one wrolders, when hearing the English lan- guage so exhausted upon the j)ositive degree, where words may be found to express the sq:lpelative? If not found in legitimate terms, they have to be invented, as witness the following: ;"My dear," exclaimed Miss Airs, "you should have seen Ned this morning! You know he's a cold-hearted fellow, and I've nearly exhausted my stock of new dresses in trying to break his heart; but he's cate;2pillared at last " Now, what in the world Miss Airs meant by caterp2illareed, we leave the student of entomology to explain.     "O    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. I have no patience with Aunt Prilm, who says that young Limberflap is a nice young man."' If  dressing in exquisite taste, parting one's hair in the middle, affecting the wearing of veils, and cultivat- ing the Saratoga Droop constitute a nice young man, then this elegant Limberflap is a perfect  charm.  Just as pretty, and just as useful as the charm  one hangs upon a necklace, or lets dangle from a  chain--just so charming is young Addlepate. But Miss Airs has this latter youlg gentleman so  encompassed by the bewilderment of her beauty aIld graces, that he does not know whether lie is a charm or not.    XVII. A RAINY DAY. PICTURE to yourself, dear reader, a rainy (ay in Saratoga! No drives, no races, no ramble throughl the Park, no promenading the piazzas, no anything, except huddling together in little groups in the parlors, watching the industrious plying of needle and thread by those young ladies who are addicted to worsted work, listening to the gossip of the old ladies, and trying to shut your eyes to the desperate flirtations with which the younger people endeavor to wile away the hours and the hearts of their adorers at the same time. There was not a young lady who dared to put her head out of doors yesterday, for the damp air is an inveterate enemy to crimps and curls,and a sad cx- poser of "rats" and "mice," to say nothing of takillg all pretensions out of newly done-up frills and ruffles. So the young ladies contented themselves in the morlling with taking possession of the corners--il fact there was not a corner to be had after ten o'clock-     "2    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. and while apparently absorbed in weavingl bright- colored threads in acld out of the canvas, they soughlt to spin a little romance into the becrusted hearts of the young' men who gathered around thelm. But there is not much romance in a Saratoga flirtation. People whose whole lives are devoted to the love of display are not given to sentiment, and a genuine affaire de coeur is far rarer at the Springs than diamonds of the first water. Saratoga is re- nowned for its curious collection of old bachelors. Season after season they come to rejuvenate, by  drinking the waters and basking in the soft light of young beauty's eyes, and go away just as callous, just as indifferent to feminine charms, and just as much wrapped up in their own selfishness, as ever. It is whispered, however, that many of these an- ticuated youths have been the unhappy victims of little romances which occurred here long years ago, when some pretty trifler cast away the heart she had won so easily, and accepted the hand of a wealthier rival. It's all very well to waltz and chat with Charles Angustus; to lean upon the arm of Adolphus and look unutterable things into his eyes ; but, if Charles Augustus or Adolphus have neither of them anl income sufficient to support the extravagances of a '-,r'   A RAINY DAY.        113 fashiolable wife, what is the use of marryin thlelm? Miss Airs knows very well what she is about in her daily routine at Scaratoga, alld plays her cards with admirable skill. She knows just; when to en- courage Adolphus with a tender look, and a little sigh, which does not come exactly from her heart, but rather from the tightness of her dress, and she knows, also, just when to snub hiln for the sake of Fitzaddle, whose father is a millionaire, and who has, besides, a fortune in his own right. The most amusing incident of the rainy day was at the dinner-table, when poor Bachelor Grumpy essayed to eat an ear of corn and drew out all his teeth at the first bite! Luckily, Aunt Prim  did not see him, and lie gradually recovered his equanimity. At the dessert, however, the clear old lady was Ilnstrated by hearing a soft whisper in her ear: "Will you have a kiss, ma'am?" Now that was a pretty question to ask a lady in a small dining-room where about seven hundred peo- ple sit down to refresh their appetites, and it is no wonder that Aunt Prim looked aghast. Bachelor Grumpy, perceiving her sudden enmbar- rassment, pointed to the bill of fare, and after all it was only a sugar kiss!     "4     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  Madge says Aunt P. looked really disappointed. Apropos of the dinner, a trifle over fifteen hun- dred guests to De fed and lodged, and looked after generally, might be supposed to perplex the mind of any one man--but these Saratoga landlords have a wonderful talent for making room, and, like poor Oliver Twist, are always clamoring for more. And then to think of the "growlers whlo find shelter under these vast roofs! There is the testy old gentleman who is always coinplaining of his waiter, 'ad who has no patience to wait his turn at the table ; the fastidious lady with a delicate appetite, who eats three chickns a day, half a dozen eggs, two fishes, to say nothing of ve'- etables, fruits, cake, and cream, and then declares she has nothing to eat! Ah! think of the poor chickens that every day bewail the loss of their heads with fantastic danlce upon their expiring toes, to feed this vast multitude of hungry individuals! Some day we intend to ex- plore the subterranean regions of this vast hotel, and to inquire into the secrets of its menage. Aunt Prim says it is quite time that Miadge and I learn something about housekeeping. But we haven't time to think about that now. And there are the people who complain of climb- i 3t   A RAINY DAY.        115 ing up the stairs, and yet refuse to trust themselves in the elevator. It is amusing to see the nervous, timid people who cannot resign themselves to the benefits of modern inventions, and go climbing the wearying stairs, even up to the fifth floor, for fear the elevator will fall! To hear the complaints of these poor unfortunates, who, according to their own accounts, can get noth- illg to eat, and have notlhing to wear, one would suppose Saratoga to be a pitiable place to live in. But it is to be suspected that those who complain the most are those who have never been used to luxuries at home, and, therefore, cannot appreciate them abroad. After dinner we had music in the parlor-instead of upon the piazza, as usual. Bright fires were glowing in the grates, and everybody having resigned themselves to a railly day, began to look cheerful, and to really enjoy a cosey, old-fashioned afternoon. Inl the evening there was a grand ball at the .. But balls at the - do not appear to be very popular. The people up there are so dreadfilly prim, so absorbed with the idea of their ownv iln- uortance, their pedigree, wealth, etc., that they look     "6     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. with distrustful eyes upon every new-coiner, and re- fuse to be on intimate terms with aly one. Iow these people contrive to enjoy themselves at a stiff, formal ball, where they sit in stately rows, looking grimrly at their neighbors, and elevating their aristocratic noses at those who venture to join the dance, is beyond all understanding. Verily there must be a world of satisfaction in the simple consciousness of one's own superiority. It is a wonder that these very " old families " can content themselves with life in a lRepublican conn- try at all. -! :   xv"', XVIII. OLD BACHELORS. "FE at Saratoga is losing much of the formality which distinguished it in former years. There is more sociability; and, therefore, more enjoyment. Instead of three or four changes of toilette, two costumes in one day are allowed to be quite suf- ficient for the most fashionable lady to be irresistible in. What pleasure there can be in spending at least one-quarter of a day in gazilig at one's self and one's dry-goods reflected in a mirror, passes all understanding. And even this waste of time was scarcely sufficient for the making of four toilettes in one day. It may be that Flora McFlimsy became impatient at being obliged to lose so much of Challes Angus- tus' channing society-and hence the revolution! If, as a clever writer remarks, we could only, "Iike Raphael's angels, be finished up at the ears with a pair of wings," what a comfort it would be! No bothersome trains, no wearisome ruffles and     "8     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. flounces, no remorseless stays and ridiculous paniers, no shivelrilng under loads of apparel, or melting under a summer sun, and wishing that Eve hadn't eaten the apple, and that we might have lived in Paradise forever in blissful ignorance of milliners and dress- nakers! Finished up at the ears with wings, a modern belle would need nothing but frizzled locks and her paint and pomade box to render her adorable. One of the most distilnctive and peculiar features of the season at Saratoga, as we have remarked, is the frilghtful prevalence every year of old bachelors. Just as sure as the bee and the humming-bird re- turn with the summer to bask in the sun and flutter among the flowers, just so sure the bachelors leave their gloomy garrets, located Heaven knows where, to sun their frigid lives among the belles of Sara- toga. Such an array of them! Such a display of them! Wizen-faced, crooked-back, bow-legged; some with luxuriant heads of hlair plentifully sprinkled with gray-most of them  frigltfully bald, with their sparse locks brushed out in the primmest manner; and some, fearful to relate, without any hair at all, and with tleir empty craniums attired in wigs!   OLD BACHELORS.  Crusty and cynical, crabbed and mystical, for- lorn and miserable-why come the old bachelors Empty-headed, of course, for no man with suficicnt wit or wisdom would be an old bachelor; empty- hearted, for no man with a heart ever lived to be an old bachelor. A fair and fat widow suggests that these old hachtle's of Saratoga have been all these years looking for rich wives. Poor fellows! They belong to the forlorn hope. As thougl a pretty girl with youth, wealth, and beauty at her comnmand was goingr to marry a snuffy old bachelor! Really, the egotism of these nmen surpasses all belief. Leaving the young girls, it is quite useless for the old bachelor to pay his devoirs to a widow. Widows are far too wise to be entrapped into marrying an obstinate, antiquated old bachelor. To manage a man in his youthful and more tractable days is, goodness knows, enoughl to try any woman's patience, but to attempt the conversion of a self-satisfied, obdurate, perverse old bachelor to a woman's way of viewing affairs, is what no selsible widow would ever undertake, not even though the sly old fellow de- dares that his heart is melted at last before her charms.     120     SPARKLES FIZROM SARATOGA. By charms, he means, of course, the widow's full purse, carriage, servants, etc., etc. Now, no rational being would for one mnoment suppose that any old bachelor could have the smallest remnant of a heart left, and when he inclines to the sentimental the effect is immlensely ridiculous. Among these forlorn specimens of humanity who are this moment strolling up and down the piazza, pretending to admire the ladies, although everybody  knows they cannot recognize the loveliest charmer at the distance of three feet-first we will single out that dapper little man, who, if he were twenty years younger, would be called a " love of a man ;"  always exquisitely dressed-as what man shouldn't be who has devoted hilnself to matters of the toilette for upwards of forty -years?-with the whitest of hands, the blackest of boots, and the glossiest of locks (what few there are left of them) of any man in Saratooga. Of course such an immaculate personage as this  would never submit to have his collar rumpled by a womllan's arms! And who would dream   of dis- arranging those prim, mutton-chop whiskers with a kiss? Surely every separate hair would bristle with indignation before such temerity. Next comes my tall and fidgety old bachelor-- '       MAKING REPAIRS    OLD BAHELORS.       121 whose clothes alre, somehow, always awry-whose cravat is never half tied-whose whole appearance is, in fact, fearfully suggestive of lost buttons, broken strings, and forlorn attempts, without klow- ing how, to look respectably. Any one can see at a glance that that man is in desperate need of some femiinine hand to keep lhinl in order. Fancy those clumsy fingers of his sewing on but- tons! Why, he hasn't even learned yet to brush his own hair! One cannot help speculating, while commiserating this lonely man, upon the great difference a good little wife would have made in his existence. We knlow a distinguished divine who never appeared li the pulpit with his hair properly coimbed-incdeed, people said he never combed it at all-until after he was married. So there is, at least, one authen- ticated instance of benefit derived by an old bache- lor from being married. As for those prim individuals who have spent altogether too much time upon their personal ap- pearance, perhaps the best thing a young wife could do to startle them into a forgetfulness of self, would be to comb their heads occasionally with a three- legged stool.     122     SPARKLES FROBi SARATOGA. One of the most dangerous of old bachelors is the handsome man, who goes on through long years en- snlarilln unsuspecting hearts, and who has no idea of marrying. The most unimpressible man in the world is the handsome old bachelor. lie is so per- fectly satisfied with himself, that no woman is divine enough to give him the heartache. So, of all men, beware of him. The most detestable, because the most inveterate and past all hope, of all old bachelors is that gray- haired, bald-headed old gentleman who is saying pretty nothings to that briglht-eyed young girl, who is laughing at hip behind her fan. Serves him right, too. For the last forty or fifty -some say sixty-years has this man haunted Sara- toga, and managed to successfully elude all manueu- vring mammnas and beautiful daughters. Of course he is enormously wealthy, else who would tolerate him for a moment? lie always selects the liveliest girls for his partners in the dance, and waltzes as though lie never knew, nor ever expected to know, the twinges of rheumatics. If some good turn of the gout would only keep him at home for one season! Now, what amuse- ment does this old fellow suppose young ladies take in his society?   ;, " OLD BAC-HELORS.       123 Not a single one of them, be she fresl as a rose or long sillce pcasse but wishes him a tlousand miles from Saratoga when he begs her hand for tihe dance. How odious to be dancing that delightful waltz :  in Graybeard's arms, with Adolphus lookiilng deject- edly and reproachfully on. The secret of the youth's melancholy is that he is poor, while Graybeard is rich-and Adolphus trembles for his chances. But lie need not fear. Graybeard has not the slightest idea of ever marrying. And if the old wizard only knew what a tool lie was in the hands of these lovely young belles--lhow he was coquetted witl, flirted with, only to make youniger and handsomer lovers jealous, how irascible he would be! ?  Althogh Graybeard will not marry, he hias been i the means of hastening many a match, for lesitatiln lovers have been driven into casting their hearts into the balance with Graybeard's gold, and it is to the credit of human nature that hearts are sometimes ifi finally triumphant. And thus it is that when Angelina wishes to bring Adolphus to his sses, or rather to her feet, :'- * ,       124     SPARKLES lROM SARATOGA, she resorts to flirting desperately and wickedly with unsuspecting Graybeard. This ruse has usually the desired effect, and no one needs to waste sympathy upon the old man in the case, since his breast is as devoid of any vestige of a heart, as a soft clam is of a pearl. Bold and calculating, selfish and cynical, past all thrills of romance or love, past even the menory of young and warm affections-the old bachelor at last finds old age creeping stealthily upon him, with every link in life broken or gone, and with scarcely one friend to drop a tear over his grave when he shall have passed away. A married man at seventy may have a warm heart, but a bachelor who has lived all his life with- out the love of woman or child, becomes early frozen into hopeless frigidity. But this stupid sub- ject has made me positively sleepy; not even an Adonis appearing upon the piazza could keep my eyes open, much less this array of miserable old, bachelors.   x i I         .     I! THE BELLES. Etre belle, 'est regner! To be beautiful is to reign, says the poet. It has been somewhat of a puzzle this summer to determine who, by right of her grace and beauty, is the reigning belle of Saratoga.  lendor, who shines ot- A1n d   L Amid a world, the only one  have s, who is sht,  splendor, who shines out-i Amii a world, the only one ,-  Ah who is she? Past seasons have had their celebrated beauties --the lovely girls who have charmed and fascinated all-but this year society seems to have no especial darling whom it is willing to crown as the belle of Saratoga. We have a profusion of roses, but somehow they all have thorns.     126     SPARKLES FROeM SARATOGA. This young lady is acknowledged to be pretty, but she has a bad temper. That one is stylish and dresses magnificently, but she is too haughty to be popular. That one is lovely, but she has no style-- and so oni.              . Mrs. Grundy has some flaw to find in the fairest pearl. It is quite evident, my dear belles, that something else is necessary to render one truly attractive, be- sides a pretty face and a lavish wardrobe. Some young ladies here have always reigned as belles in one sense of the word, ever since they first made their debu1t in society, but still they are un- married, and seem likely to continue so. This is doubtless a great mystery not only to thlelnselves, but also to their friends. It may be easily solved. When these young ladies first came to spend the season at Saratoga, they were young, beautiful, and excelled all others in the elegance of their toilettes. But they were haughty, proud, and esteemed no young man as worthy of being a suitor to their lily- white hands. To marry one of these beauties, great wealth was of course indispensable. Next, pedigree; for they had a holy horror of plebeian blood. Next, manly   THE BELLES.       127 beauty; and lastly, the most abject devotion to themselves. But no such marvellous man came suing at their feet. Modern society rarely combining in one in di- vidual the beauty of Adonis, the wealth of Crosus, and Marc Antony's devotion-these haughty belles still remain unmarried. Having passed season after season without en- tangling the golden fish in their nets, and havinlg grown slightly/pase, they have returned to Saratoga this summer, armed with new devices for subduing that obdurate creature-lman. They have summoned to their aid the subtle hand of art. They have become elaborate artists of themselves. The dark-haired damsel, whose raven tresses have failed to win a husband for their wearer, comes out like a new-blown flower, with rare golden locks, and challelnges the world to admire a new beauty. Her face is a perfect study-not for the soul which it reveals, but for its features. The eyebrows are tinted; the eyes are bright and dazzling-with arsenic; the lips are vermilion; and, as for brow and cheek, Nature has no rival for the lily and rose which are blended there. A black, or white, lace veil is of course neces- I     128    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. sary to be worn over such charms throughout the day, to keep the impertinent suilighlt fromn telling tales. So much for the brunette. As for the blonde, she lhas grown weary of her pale locks, and, by somne device, has coaxed them! into a glowing red. Her complexion, no longer fair, but frightfully sallow, is so covered with chalk as to render it positively ghastly. There was a time wh]en delicate, sickly looking womnen were the type of women most admired. Thank Heaven! that time is past, and a woman can afford to be healthy and stout, rosy and good- natured, and yet be admitted to fashionable society -though goodness only knows what great pleasure or profit is to be derived from that! Now the brunette and the blonde have come back to Saratoga with hosts of new dresses, new hair, new faces, all fearfully and wonderfully made, and yet- and yet-they sit like wall flowers shivering in the cold, unsurroundcd by beaux. If some innocent individual who has not fre- quented Saratoga for the last four or five years chances to be struck by their beauty and style, and pays them some attention, it is noticed that l   THE BELLES.       129 he too, like former admirers, soon makes his final bow, "' And quietly steals away." Poor things! This season, like all the rest, will glide away, and no happy speculation be realized in the matrimonial market by these fashionable old maids. Which shows that there is somethilng wrolng in the feminine ideas of attraction. It is useless to put on the gaudy wings of the but- terfly, and still remain a grub. Who admires the golden glow of the wings and forgets the worm beneath? So, my dear fading flowers, had you but passed one-half the time in making your souls beautiful, that you have spent in acquiring new charms of person, you had not been lacking in the rare devo- tion of true hearts. Had you cultivated those graces of the heart, those enduring charms which make a woman always lovable; had you polished some jewels of the mind instead of counting your treasures in diamonds and pearls, life would not have become the vapid, idle dlean, the round of dissipation and disappointments, which it has been. Remember that beauty is but the velvet flush of 6*     130     SPARIELES FEOM SARATOGA.         i the rose; the charm of the flower is in its fragrance. Its perfume is its soul. A lovely and lovable wolnan is like the rose; she gathers her true beauty from the inner life. Go home, my dear pcass belles, and begin life anew. Lay aside your false hair. Let Mother Nature tint ! your natural locls as she will, for she is the true artist after all. She knows where to fling her gold and brown, and where to leave her snow-drifts and silvery threads. Throw away the powder and the rouge; the flowers have no need of theml-why have you? Give less time to your ruffles and flounces; the world does not lie in a French fold or the fit of a glove. There are things more important than the style of a bonnet, more enduring than the latest pat- tern for a dress, and therefore more worthy of thought. Take up some aim in life, live more for the inner and less for the outer world. Then, if some true heart is laid upon your shrine, it is, well. If not, it may still be well. It is not all of life to love, or to marry, and a   THE BELLES.        131 womanl's life may still be a success without a man's heart in it. But to come now to the younger belles-the merry maidens of sweet sixteen and of twenty. For then also we have the same word of warning and advice. There is nothing more beautiful in God's world thlani a beautiful young girl, with tie sparkle of youth in her eye and the dew of freshness upon her lip. That she should not be always beautiful is a vain regret; that she might be always adorable, but often is not, is a still sadder one. And so to the charming young girls who throng the parlors of Saratoga; who float, like beautiful dreams, through the dance in the ball-room; whose lips are always wreathed in smiles and whose voices are musical with laughter; whose lives have beell one unbroken sunbeam-to these, whonm e ardently love, we have one message-- To be always loved, one must continue always to grow lovable. It is not beauty alone, it is not style, nor wealth, whiche takes hold of a true man's heart and retains it, or which awakens the admiration of the world. More than these is necessary to inspire a genu ine love and admiration. ,.      132     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  How many of the lovely girls here who possess all the charms of youth, will make charming old women,  is a question well worth considering. Just now to be a belle, the only things esteemed to be necessary are, to be dressed always in the very latest style, to wear one's hair on the top of one'sl head, to walk on tilted heels, to carry a vinaigrette, to know when to faint, when to blush, when to snub admirers with no prospects, when to look tender and languishing, to dance. and flirt to one's heart's con- tent, to follow the ceaseless round of pleasure and never go weary-such is the life of the Saratoga belle. The aim of her industry is to work cats and dogs upon canvas; of her literature, to read novels. A sly little flirtation with Fritz on the balcony is all very nice, but as to marrying Fritz, that is im- possible, for he has no money, nothing but prospects. And who can buy diamonds and silks with pros- pects  Apropos of the belles, here is a pen portrait of a fair New Yorker whom we call " beautiful Maude,"' and who queens it right royally over many suscep- tible hearts. Maude has the loveliest golden hair, which is crimped and curled, looped high up on her head and flowing luxuriantly over her shoulders-   THE BELLES.       133 in fact a perfect marvel of a coiff2re to the un- accustomed eye. Her eyes are blue as the water- lilies which bloom in the vale of Cashmere; and as for her complexion--ah! I should need the inspired pen of an Arabian poet to describe that! Indeed, I could never quite make up my mind about that complexion, so pink and white, such a delicious mingling of the lily with the rose; a pink that never deepens into red, a white that almost dazzles; it seems too beautiful for nature, too natural for art! No doubt it should be attributed to the New York air. Apart from her beauty, Miss Manude has every advantage which wealth can bestow. An in- exhaustible wardrobe, jewels and trinkets without nnmber, and adorers cad iniJitfim,. She is just five feet four in stature, and would be extremely grace- ful in her carriage were it not for the little boots she wears upon her dainty feet, which are tilted up on heels three inches high. Such an absurd fashion is by no means conducive to an Andalusian walk! This morning beautiful Maude is cllarmingly arrayed in a whte dress of the finest India muslin; which is cut up into endless puffs, and set together again with broad valenciennes lace. This is worn over a : pink silk. The short tunic is also of pink silk and bordered with deep lace, and a pink ribbon, almost     134    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. half a yard in width, is knotted up in a marvellous way to form a sash at the back. A hat-not much to speak of for size-only two or three rosebuds caught together by a bit of lace-yet, nevertheless, a dainty and costly trifle, rests upon the front of her head, aifd is almost lost in the luxuriance of golden hair which falls in tiny ringlets over her forehead, and ripples down over her shoulders, reflecting the dazzling sunbeams like threads of living gold. White gloves, and a white silken parasol, whose pink lining casts a soft, tinted shade over her fair face, completes the toilette of this lovely girl. Maude lookss like a beautiful fairy who might live upon love and honey-dew all of her days. iut I can assure you that she has no such romantic ideas amid all the folly of her little brain, and woe. to the rash youth with less than ten thousand a year, and prospects of more, who should dare to aspire to her hand.-It would not be pleasant to eet t he flashing of those violet eyes if Maude were angry; there is heat lightning even in the softest summer clouds.   Sxx NUBBING SNUBBING. I xA happy to say that my advice and warning to the old bachelors has taken effect. The dapper little man wlho has been so long noted as the pink of perfection, has given a Byronic turn to his dark locks; that is, he allows at least three individual hairs to fall over his forehead, that le may no longer be noted for his primness; the crazy old bachelor is making frantic efforts to tie his cravat in a proper manner, and has positively been rebuttoled --that is, some one has kindly sewn on his buttons for him, for this forlorn individual, in plying the needle, usually placed the button on wrong side out, with his clumsy fingers; and the wizen-faced, ba11- headed old man has forsaken the ball-room and the dance, and mopes alone in a corner upon the piazza, the very picture of desolation an-d despair. His eyes are at last opened to'the mournful fact that he is no , lnger an eligible partner for the pretty young ladies around whom he has fluttered so long, and now lie ,li     136     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. sits a pathetic monument of lost opportunities, dis. mally reciting to himself those well-known lines- "Of all sad words of tongue or pen, The saddest are these-it might have been!" Poor fellow! if he had consented years ago to give his dim eyes the aid of a pair of spectacles, he might have discovered what an insufferable nni- sance he was to the mierry young belles who were never weary of diverting themselves with his infirm- ities. I have seen this pitiable old man the victim of a dozen caprices of a young girl in a morning upon the piazza. First, she would drop her fan, as though she were not in the least aware of the almost utter impossi- bility of the old bachelor picking it up; as though she never dreamed that he had a stiff back and was troubled with gouty limbs; next she would ask him to read the last Saratoga letter to her, pleading a headache, and declaring it hurt her eyes to read! And the wicked girl's eyes dancing with fire all the while, and as bright as diamonds, for she knew very well that tlis superannuated beau could not read without glasses! And these he never wears upon the piazza.   SNUBBING.        137 I must not omit to mention that one old bachelor here is called the " belle of Saratoga," probably be- cause he has such agreeable ways, for he is one of your charming old bachelors, and the anxious manm- mas are always willing to trust their pretty cears in his care. This circumstance causes all the young gentlemen to cultivate his acquaintance, and alto- gether he has quite a delightful time of it in Sara- toga-much pleasanter, I fancy, than when at hoine in Gotham, for there he keeps bachelor's hall with two bachelor brothers. Think of that, young ladies!  Three lonely, crusty old bachelors, all sitting down to sip their tea ini frigid silence-a- melancholy, miserable trio! Otnce a week they have a sewing meeting to re- place lost buttons and sew up the eye-openers in their socks. Then they look over the household ac- counts, and scold Bridget for wasting the tea and the sugar, reprove her for leaving the front windows open that the old maids over the way may peep in, and charge her, on no account, to converse with the pretty and wily widow who lives close by, and who sometimes encounters Bridget at the market. So these old bachelors are terribly afraid of wid- ows and old maids. How absurd to think that one of them should come up here to be styled the " belle     138    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. of Saratoga," and to play duenna to half a dozen pretty girls! But dismissing the old bachelors as peremptorily as they llave often been dismissed before-we turn to ponder the question whether it is wise to appear -beautiful one hour, only to appear ugly the next, from shleer contrast. It takes the morning light-the full blaze of day -to reveal people to each other; and therefore, these morning hours do much either to dispel or complete the illusions of the ball-room the night before. Miss Pinky Pearl, whose complexion at night is something marvellous, in fact, a veritable cream of roses, never ventures on the piazza without a veil over her face, and a parasol which serves to keep off the too scrutinizing gaze of both sun and men. But Madge, who never powders or paints, looks better than ever in the morning, provided her eyes are not heavy with sleep. The belle of the ball-room is not apt to be the belle of the piazza. Full dress, diamonds, and the other et ceteras of a lady's evening toilette, are apt to impart a delusive charm  to beauty, and the young lady who is a perfect divinity in a cloud of tulle, who is radiant under the brilliant chandeliers,   SNUBBING.     -   139 may be plain enough when she appears in the morning in a simple dress, with her hair plainly arranged, and her complexion' devoid of the ball- room lilies and roses. I But to pass from the young, ladies who are so elaborated, look at the elderly ones who conic out in the morning as fresh as new blown roses, inspir- "ng themselves and every one else with the belief that they are yolng again. Look at the light robes, the gay ribbons, the long curls, the jaunty little hat; and were it not for the keen gaze beneath the uni- versal veil, one might fancy a miss of sixteen sat under that parasol-instead of a woman of sixty. 'I- ow fearfully and how wonderfully we are made!" comes to our mind with a new si gifi- cance, as we watch the passing throng. Thank Heaven that gray hairs are at last fash- iolable; and that the most of our elderly dames are content with such graces as Mother Nature lhas given theln, and wear the chaplet of years as a crown formed of precious jewels from the casket of time. Youth has its charms, but so also has maturer age. An old lady may be just as truly charmilng as a young belle. But the charms of which we' speak are not to be found in the powder or paint box. The latest development of Saratoga life which     "O    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. has attracted our especial attention is the fearfll manner in which people snub each other. The  fine art of snubbing has attained its fullest perfec-  tion here. It is no uncommon thing to see people, who have been appalently the most ardent friends, pass each other without a glance. From the prevalence of turned-up noses, one who is a careful observer of the passing throng might  imagine that le nez retrousse was considered a high type of beauty, and therefore our belles were do- ing their best to cultivate it. My dear Mrs. Delta, I am delighted to see you!" exclaims Mrs. Beta rushing up to her quondam friend. Mrs. Delta draws herself up coldly, says ' Good- morning, Madam," and stalks away. To the gentleman who escorts her she says, "Iow dare that creature speak to me?" And her nose puts on an aspiring air which is truly beautiful to witness. A young lady who has been trifling cruelly with an admirer's heart for a week or more-lavishing her brightest glances and sweetest smiles upon himi, suddenly ignores him altogether, absolutely disdain- ing to even look upon him. To solve the apparent enigma, one has- only to f   SNUBBING.        141 ascertain that this young man has only a few thou- sands a year, while a new admirer has untold wealth at his command. Is it well to know that man or woman? Will it do to recognize and frequent the society of those people are questions often asked, and usually an- swered according to the status a critical world has given to the individual. To know the persoll whom society does not recog- nize is accounted more than a crime. There are, in fact, a great many people who never know you at all unless you are dressed quite a la mode, and the estimate they place upon you is exactly in accordance to the garments you wear; just in proportion to the value of your jewels or laces do you rise or fall in these peoples' opinion. As for your individual character, that doesn't matter so much. People who hold their position in society by their wealth alone, like to turn up their noses at those who have something better than wealth to recom- mend them. It is so provoking to meet people who are com- paratively poor, and yet who refuse to be dazzled by the glitter of diamonds or the splendor of costly raiment and pretentious equipages!     "2    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. To snub the individual who has neither beauty, wealth, nor fame is accounted a virtue. So goes the world. And a: strange, strange world it is. One peculiarity of Saratoga life is, that it is made up of little welcomes and farewells. Every day some friend makes his adieux; but every cay some well-known face reappears amlid the merry throng, and so the vacant place is soon filled, and there is no such thing as loneliness or weariness, except, perhaps, to those who have grown weary of society long ago, and who prefer the quiet, shaded walks of life to these gay scenes. Life moves on from day to day like a pleasant dream--or like passing through the mazes of the dance; we clasp hands for a moment and then part forever, with perchance the memory of a glance, or touch, which will live in our hearts long after the summer flowers have faded, and the green leaves grown red and sere ;-summer memories, which will float through the long winter of life to come, like the incense of unseen flowers which fol- low us on our way. Little friendships, little loves; words half jesting, half tender; a mingling of sighs and smiles; a heart- throb of pleasure pierced with a shadow of regret; a   SNUBBING.         143 series of welcomes and farewells-such is life at Saratoga. Apart from the attractions of the hotels, where life is one constant round of gayety, Nature here has many charms. The drives are beautiful, and go in what direc- tion you will the samne charming variety of scenery is spread before you. Mother Nature never snubs her loving chil- dren; she welcomes them all with a smile. Her heart is always open to us, always tender and true. The favorite drive is tlat to the famed Saratorga Lake. Past green fields filled with waving cornl; past green meadows from which comes the sweet odor of the new-mown hay ; past the red ald green velvet of clover; past the white-mantled fields of buckwheat, where myriads of star-like blossoms lift up their voices of perfume; Dast ' green groves and dark woods from which the wild flowers creep to the roadside and whisper the secrets of shaded glens; past all these, onwald to thle beautiful lakeNvhich lies, a sol0taire set in emerald, upon Nature's deep heart. To sit and dream one quiet hour upon the banks of this blue, limpid lake, is to steal at least one bit of true romance from the gay life around us. And this hour should be near the eventide-     "4    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. just when the sun has bidden the day farewell, and left the clouds all flushed and glowing with his parting kiss; when the far-off mountains are  wrapped in a golden mist, and every ripple of the lake reflects a dving sunbeam. With a musical murmur the little waves break upon the shore at our feet, lavishing their last jewels of sunlight upon the green blades of grass, and singing in a weird monotone the dirge of the dead day. One cannot help thinking, at such a time, of. those who have come and gone before us; of the grave and the gay, the light-hearted and the weary ones, who have lingered a little while beside this lake, and then drifted away to distant homes-some to quiet hearthstones, some into busy, anxious life-' and many, ah! very lany, into that ulnknown. world from whose bourne no traveller returns."9 Iow many of life's little romances have sprung into being amid the charming spots which encircle this placid lake! The very air which floats over the water, full of the mystery of the mountains, the sweetness of the forests, the cool tranqnillity of tlhe lake, is freighted with romance. Whoever canl open his heart to such a scene; can feel the impress of sky and shore; of the blue moun-tains faintly i    SNUBBING.        145 traced against the sunset clouds; of the blue lake, with the white lilies folding their petals to slumber on its breast-whoever can feel all this without a thrill, of adoration, without the deep sense of a new joy--misses the benediction whicl Nature gives to all who sincerely love her. 7 tY     xxi. XXI.            . AMOxNG THE LIONTS. I DO not know any person who attracts more at- tention in this crowded resort than the young man fromnl abroad. This young man has a droop to his lily-white hands, a lisp to his speech, a suspicion of  rouge upon his cheeks, and of course he wears eye- glasses. More than this, he is said to be desperately in love with an heiress. As I have just remark- ed, this extraordinary young man attracts. more attention than any one whom I have noticed, there- fore I place him first upon my list of distinguished individuals.   '  To be distinguished on account of the name you bear, on account of your learning, your talents, g5 your wealth, or perhaps your wickedness, is all very  well; but let any person who is noted for any one of these things mingle with the crowd, and unless he ; is personally known he will probably pass un-  noticed. But to carry your own distinction always : with you, quite independent of either circumstances or surroundings; to -be always distingzdzised from   b   AMONG TIME LIONS. the herd, is certainllyr to pOssess a pIr'e-elninelcc of either superiority or ridiculoisness r  other peo- pie, Wrhicl M}Ntua!nre hlerself has conferred. But to return to thile you0111 man fron abroad. e especiallv designte him11 in tis ma  not tat lie is the only y u laun in Saratoga whose travels have been CxteusiNe but because lie is the partici lar youn-  nan awho ihas apparentl  loft all his native Am-ericaiisjl , ad aa bromll't :o   is a qiantit- of foreignisns in its place. So  lithat, alt^houlh this y1on 1g ma satill s1eak1 s his mol ler tiongue,T witl] the aid of a lisp, hle lhas quite censcl to be an Alnerican. lT s conversatiol is aLslr amsng. tie tries to persuade you that lhe is sick. antd disg'sted Nit tith world; that ho woull tnmuh prefer a savage state of life to this aslhionalle existence. and that to 1,e dlessel in "a  il coat and to wear white Lids is an insffelrablnle tIrt- 'rC to lim. lie wants yOu to believe that lihe is a iamond of the first water Polished entirely agai his Nwill.  ..          . Anti yet, in spite of all this, not a man in la a- oga devotes so much time to Iris dress as does tlis or youth, who declares he abhors it! Look at M,11- i:o SLook at him now, all ready for the ball, wi:h his lack caw-hameu coat, his black Pantaloons, white     3j    SPARKLES FROM SARATOG A.          cravat, white gloves, and hair carefully parted in the middle. IHe carries a white silk crush hat to fan himself durincg his exhaulstive efforts in the dance, and wipes his fore-headl-not his cheeks- languidly with a lace handkerchief. A man who las caused considerable remark here, from the reputed vastness of his wealtll, and the magnificent diamond he wore on his finger--which gem is said to be worth twelve thousand dollars- is another one of the distinguished people. Ie was remarkably ugly in appearance, wore an immense black wig, and had a pair of eyes as black as jet. His complexion, too, was suspiciously dark, but he was presumed to be some Spaniard rolling in ingots and gems, and many admiring glances were cast, if not on him, at least upon the valuable diamond which flashed from his finger. And now, rumnor says that the pretended Spaniard is a pure negro, and people are shocked to thinlk they have existed under the same roof and dined at the same table with this sable individual. We have a most remarkable pair of boots here- worn by a Colonel in the armny. Wherever a group of pretty ladies is seated these boots are to be seen wending their way. Now these are such remark- able boots that they take precedence in making the   Colonel a distinguished man over all the brave deeds he has performed, and the danlels he has in- curred in tracking the savages over the plains of the far West. I do not know that I can better describe the Colonel's boots than by saying that they have the appearance of havilg been whittled down to a point, and are in such marlked contlast to the broad- toed boots which aree worn here that they have cer- tail distinguislied themselves. As these boots are evidenly unadapted to the accommodation of five toes apiece, we lave concluded that the most of the Colonel's toes lodge out! At any rate, the Colonel's boots are most remark- able specimens of economy in leather. And now we come to the "catch of the season," who munst always be a distinrguished individual. The young manr who has figured for some time in this character at  Saratoga is handsome, rich as Croasus, liberal and jolly, lives like a prince, and seems a veritable Monte Christo as far as his wealth is concerned.  His apartments in the hotel are fitted up in the most luxurious manner. To pass into them from the other rooms is like stepping, from the commonplace, everyday world, into enchanted land The rooms are fitted up in Oriental style, the floors being spread with beautiful Persian mats, and      15w0    SP'AKlKLES lFl(')M SARATOG.  the luxnurious sofas and chairs covered with the most elegant designs, all wrouglt with the needle. The doors are hungm with curtains of the same richly emblroidered material as that which covers the fur- niture. Pictures and statues, elegant vases and beau- tiful flowers, a piano, mirrors, and numerous articles of vcrtz, adorn the rooms.  And. while other people here are quite content to rest their weary heads upon ordinary couches, this yoTung man has rose-colored dreams under a pink   g silk spread which is covered withl white dotted  Swiss, and bordered with ruffles and pink ribbon.   } This rich young American rides out every day like a prince in a carriage and four, followed by scores of admiring bright eyes. Alas! such young  men are not apt to be matrimonlially inclined, and it  is to be feared that the Saratoga belles will silg,  and their mammas manceuvre in vain. To be handl-  some and rich, clever and good-hearted withal, is to be a source of immense attraction in a place like Saratoga. An interesting, but rather horrible, individual,  because so doleful, is a gentleman with a long, pale face, eyes deep set in his head, a sepulchral voice, who has the odd fancy of wearing a death's-head upon his shirt front. And this deatlhs-head is coln-   AMONG THE LIONS.      151 tinually opening and shutting its ghastly mouth, which horrible operation is performed by nmeans of a small gallvanic battery, which its owner carries in his pocket. Now, is not there one evidence of distinguished taste in the way of personal adorn- ment? Another person well calculated to inspire horror in the lminds of those who are fond of taking peeps into the dark mysteries of life, is a man who goes by the familiar name of Bluebeard. He is a widower, with the rather alarming reputation of having spir- ited away three wives. Rumlnor says that he is now here in search of a fourth, but lie might as well pack his trunk and bid farewell to Saratoga, for the young ladies are all terribly afraid of him, and there is always a sudden disappearance of the belles whenever this ogre approaches. I must not omlit to mention the young politician, who is surely a rising star in the political world, and who has now so fine an opportunity of display- ing his capabilities. lie talks like an orator, warms into enthusiasm with his subject, and has already converted all thhe ladies, and not a small number of the gentleman, to his party. While other young gentlemen are flying through the dance in the ball-room above, this     152    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  sedate youth, who seems to have no relish for such frivolity at this momentous time, sits upon the piazza and eloquently discusses his favorite themle. g     p   XXII. BUZZ. CONSMERING the scarcity of the "busy bees" in Saratoga, the incessant hum is certainly something wonderful. Buzz, buzz, buzz, all day long, from seven o'clock in the morningm until after twelve at niIght--although we would not undertake 'to mention the individuals who commence their hum in the early morning. To rise early is one of the impossibilities of a watering-place life. Heavens! one must have more sleep than a peri- winkle-especially as the periwinkle has nothing to do but to wink and blink at the sun, while here one has to dress, and dance, and talk, without even a son worth blinking at, or interesting enough to keep our weary eyes open. But then it is possible to live upon hope ; and have we not a promise froml a dear little lady, who is our chaperohie pro tem., that a few days more will bring her pet son to Saratoga--a youth who is learned in both ancient and nmodern lore, a marvellous young 7*     54     SPARKILES FROM SiARATOOGA. mal who can speak every modern tongne, and of course knows how to make love in his own-a youth, in short, who has travelled all over the world and come home, heart whole, to lay his heart at the  feet of some charmilin American. So that the future has something yet in store, unless, indeed, that bright-eyed young belle, who is this very moment endeavoring to ensnare Fitz Hugh  with her fascinations, while we are a martyr to the miserable business of writing letters, should snap him up immediately. But to return to the A/tn. One cannot help   I wondering what all these people are so incessantly talking about-for conversation never seems to flag. To pause, to listen, and watch the animated gestures and expressive faces upon every side, one would think that each individual was compressing into a brief half hour's talk all the information he pos- sessed, or that, fearing suddenly to make his exit from this world, he was bent upon having an em- phatic " last say." The gentletmen, of course, have at present but one topic-and that is, politics. RHeally these sober- headed men call themselves morally sane; but to hear them simply expressing their political opinions, we would fancy them to be newly escaped lunatics. Y    BUZZ.         155 Talk about fighting duels for love! It is a won- der that these hot-headed politicians do not blow each other's braiins out every day! We always make it a point to graciously retire from the scene when we see a political breeze rising. It is so dis- agreeable to sit between a fiery IRepublican and a crazy Democrat, and wonder what is coming next. Such a position forcibly reminds us of the pathetic state of that little boy who begged his mother to punish him iimmediately, as anything was better than a state of suspense! The young people do not trouble their heads very much about political warfare, but their talk cm- braces an alarming amrount of flirtation and love- making in their quiet chats and walks upon the piazza, or while sitting in some retired corner of the parlor. For one of the prinlcipal charms of the Congress Iall parlor is its peculiar adaptability to morning flirtations-it has so many cosey little nooks; such luxurious tetes-d-tetes; such ilmense ,fauteutil in which one can be buried to every being except the person for whom one wishes at that mo- ment to live. And then there is the new carpet in this charming parlor-which it is impossible to look upon without having a tinge of romance, for it is truly beautiful,     156    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. and always suggestive of floods of moonlight falling upon a profusion of pale roses and lilies. The one particular belle- whom we mentioned  above, is to-day a little disconsolate, for she declares  that she flirted all yesterday morning with Croesus in the parlor, endured his nonsense on the piazza after dinner, when she was dying to hear the music, and danced half the evening with him at the hop last night-and yet he hasn't proposed. Wh'at a stupid he is, to be sure! It is astonishing what a malicious pleasure peo- ple seem to take in laughing at the misfortunes of others. We affect to be very aristocratic here at the Con- gress, but we enjoy a good hearty laugh sometimes  -and but just a moment ago the throng upon the piazza were in a perfect roar. Laughng at some unlucky individual, of course. The fun was this: A  sedate-looking farmer, wearing a broad- brimmed hat, was driving slowly down the street with a load of watermelons. Iis horse, a perfect Rozinante in meagreness of flesh and multiplicity of bones, was evidently inspired with a Quixotic  idea of acquiring fame, and therefore, just at the moment when the unsuspecting farmer was passing    BUZZ.         157 the hotel, Rozinante walked gravely ahead with the front pair of wheels, leaving the wagon, farmer, and melons in the lurch. Their sudden descent to the ground, and evident amazement at this unwonted state of affairs, was ludicrous, indeed. The farmer sat, not in his " easy clair," but upon the ground, with his eyes as larce as saucers, his broad-brinmmled hat rolling away after Rozinante, and the jolly melons careering in every direction like a set of urchins just let loose. Thle wagon put on a most dejected air, and the front wheels went rolling sedately down the street follow- ing the wicked Rozinante. Not a Dulcinea upon the piazza but burst into a merry laugh, and every swain of course followed suit. There is nothing so contagious as laughter. We might, perhaps, make an exception of flirtation, this latter caprice of human nature having been an epidemic in Saratoga this season. It is amusing to watch the people as they come down to the springs; to wonder whence they have come, and whither they will go! You can easily tell the new-comers by the wry faces they make upon tasting the waters, putting down tl e first glass but half emptied, while the old     L-3 bSPARKLES FROM5 SARATOGA. aibitzues quaff their five or six glasses, with the itmost sany fr'oi. What a motley  conourse I Hither comes old Lge seeking, perhaps, renewal of youth; here, too, tatler the young, and the beautiful, to add fresl        1 'oses to their cheeks; here mingle the sad ancd the  gay ; those that count each day lost which brlins         lot some new joy; and those who, looking nmourn- lully into the past, weep over clays that are no         r mnore! Days                           s "Dear as remembered kisses after death,          t And sweet as those by hopeless fancy feigned       t On lips that are for others! Deep as love,  Deep as first love, and wild with all regret;       : O Death in Life, the days that are no more!" Al, were there but some enchanted place within  ,vhose shaded groves bubbled the fountain of Eternal Youth I How numberless, as the leaves of the forest, would be those who gathered there!  And, if in some secluded nook, the Fountain of  Oblivion offered its dark and mystic waters for a ;olace to the heart, what an eternity of sorrow would be cast therein! Well might the ancients have deemed forget- fulness a boon worthy the bestowal of the gods; for there are times, when to forget past griefs, is better than looking forward to new joys. -  '         2 . E   BUZZ.          159 Still better thanlall these, if in some sacred grotto the famed Castalian fount were springing, where, kneeling to sip of its pure waters, we ligllt drill in poetic fire anld lofty enthusiasm ;  kindling. thoughts and noble aspirations; strength to rise above the bitternless of the world, and conrac to welcome the ills and the sorrows of life. Speaking of the ancient fabled waters, is there not still flowing in some secluded spot. some Lydian stream in which our millionaires Iave bathed, and this acquired the power of transmuting. all they )uD( into gold?. but finding, alas! like poor King Midas, how little happiness their gold can bring.     XXIII. FLIRTATIONS. REILLY, we have not been able to turn our eyes toward any point of the compass without seeing a pair of lovers. Billers and cooers, flirters and flirtees (that last is original, firtee meaning the person who is flirted with) are to be met at every step, occupying every corner, strolling through every shaded walk, and monopolizing the best places generally. It is a great mistake for people to hide in a quiet place to carry on a flirtation.  Better be spoony in public, my dears, for some one is sure to drop your way just at the most inter- esting stage of the conversation; and to be sitting alone in a corner is always terribly suggestive of love-makingl-that is, of course, allowing two people to that particular corner. We have derived much amusement in watching the artful devices of one pair of lovers who for the  last week have been vainly endeavoring to delude  the world into the belief that they are enjoying a   FLIRTATIONS.       161 sort of quiet friendship-without a spark of love in it. This charming couple take a book, and seekinog out some place where they fondly hope and believe that no intruder will venture, they sit holdilng the book between them, pretending to read. Now what that book is all about I have not vent- ured close enough to see. But that the readers are learning love's alphabet from. it, and fast coining the mystical letters into words, I have not the slight- est doubt. It is such a nice way of making love, to sit with a handsome young man holding one side of a book-- the book being snall-pretending to read, and cer- tain that others hear nothing of the whispers let fall between the sentences! Now, I have had a suspicion that this couple to whom I refer have not the slightest idea of what that book, which seems to form a sort of connecting link betweel their hearts, contains. To-day my suspicion was verified, for they were quietly studying the title page, and a person would think that they have hung long enough over tlat volume to have gathered all its golden treasures of love and poetry long ago. But 1no; there they sit, their eyes looking unut-     "62    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. terable thoughts at each other; their lips silent but eloquent ; their finger-tips just touchilo' ; while they turn the pages of that unread volunme-learnilng life's sweetest lesson, and yet almost unconscious of it. Ah! "There's nothing half so sweet in life As Love's young dreall." Another desperate flirtation-not a real, genuine love affair, with a true sentimelt in it, but a Sara- toga flirtation-has been going on for the last four days in the parlor. Up in the corner, of course; the lady sitting half buried in a luxurious chair, flirting her fan grace- fully, and flirting her eyes at the same time at her adorer, who sits in front of her. The young man carries a cane, which helps him  to support himself under these trying circumstances. The young lady has been a belle for more thanl one season; she is quite ac'fcait in the art of break- ing' hearts, and she is just as sure of singeing the wings of this poor man-butterfly as she is sure of es- ; caping heart-whole herself. As for the poor youth in the case, the only hope for him is that he is so much absorbed in his mous- tache, that it certainly requires an effort on his part V   FLIRTATIONS.       1 63 to devote any number of consecutive minutes to any one womlall. Ah, that moustache  Combed, and curled, and carefully waxed at the ends) what a pathctic monument of manly devotion it is, to be sure! Some men make an idol of their ambrosial locks; some devote themselves, not to the matrimonial tic, but to that more important one, the cravat; some practise in twirling the cane gracefully, and others endeavor to make their eyes beautiful by the inces- sant smoking of cigars. But this particular young man has his heart's love in his moustache. Now, not one man mentioned among the above specimens of the genus is worth one slap for a lover. Who wants an adorer who is utterly absorbed in himself? And we wonder that that practised belle canl takle any pleasure in flirting so long with a mere moustache! We have solved the mystery in our own minlds, by supposing that she fondly imagiles that he is adllirig 1her eyes; w ile lie just as delusively dreamns that she sees or admires nothing but tlhat love of a moustache.     164    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  And so both are happy, and this flirtation goes on admirably. No especial hour is set apart for tlis Saratoga  I aullsement. We have times to eat and to sleep; to. dance, to drive, and to walk; but the flirtations go on as un- interruptedly as the air we breathe. And so they become epidemic. The last and the most unexpected flirtation of all, has beent carried on by a staid, moderate old bache- lor, rich as Crcesus, iad a pretty wildow. Now it takes these widows to inveigle a man's heart into invisible meshes, and to capture the poor fellow before he is really aware of it. That is, if she fairly sets about it; and so this charming widow has bewitched this forlorn old bachelor into believing that she is an angel disguised, and that he is the one mlan who could mnake her  happy; she has charmed him into forgetting all his dread and horror of the sex; into a serious flirtation which looks very much like ending in a weddinlg. Ah well! so much for the constancy of a man to his principles. For, when a man makes a resolution not to marry, he should n ot allow himself to be be- witched into matrimonyy and then spend his days in  reproaching his wife for his folly.   FLIRTATIONS.       165 That is the way all old bachelors do. A favorite spot for a flirtation is down in the park. That is, if the two seats provided for senti- mental lovers happen to be unoccupied! It is not to be supposed that all the flirting ac- complished here is done by young people or by un- married people. There are any number of married flirts on the carpet. Such sly flirtinlg, too; principally done 1ay the married men. These men keep a sharp lookout for their wives, and do up all the domestic wicked- ness themselves. There is plenty of excuse for putting the dear wife out of the way. Not absolutely drowning or choking her off, but by more delusive means, such as mildly suggesting that the atmosphere of the ball-room might ilnjure her health, or that late hours will steal the roses from her cheek, and thus cause the poor husband a pang. And so these confiding wives, who have a dread of stepping out and leaving gay widowers belind them, march dutifully off to their rooms, while their odious husbands indulge in numberless flirtations. I notice that every man who has a. pretty wife is inclined to be jealous of her, and we have plenty of green-eyed monsters of husbands in our midst. They     166     SPARKLES FROM' SARATOGA. are such interestinog creatures-somethilng of the th under-cloud style. There ought to be a patent g-ass case iln which to imnprison pretty wives, for the Lenefit of these jealous lunatics. "My dear," says one of these devoted husbands to his loving wife, "I aim going to town for a few days. You. must not think of dancing with that fellow Jones, nor of walltzing with Smith ;-indeed, -you had better not attend the hops or balls., being unllpro-  tected. And I wouldn't go down to the spriivg in  the morning ; nor especially in the eveninog. Aind if you are invited to drive, why you can excuse yourself-write to ing every day; and that, with looking after the baby and nurse, will afford you amusement enonuh until my return."  That is the way these jealous husbands bid an affectionate adieu to the partner of their sorrows, not of their joys, and go to the city to be devoured with curiosity as  to what their wives are doing in their absence, and to come back greener-eyed than ever.  We feel sorry for these self-deluded individuals!  We slould like to drown every one of them in a frog pond, sure that they would come up an army of croakers all arrayed in green coats. [\   XXIV. WIDOWERS. OLD bachelors are to be snlubbed, widowers to be considered. Therefore we proceed to consider this species of the ygemus lhono, especially that portion who have come hither this season in tlronrs. There are times when blackberries are excessively plenty; likewise widowers. The present is one of those seasons at Saratoga. Every other manl you meet who has passed his first flush of youth, is either a man who has never committed his fate to matrimony, or one who wears a weed. That is, he is either a bachelor or a widower. And more than that, half of the married men who have escaped from the domestic hearth and come here, pretend to be widowers. They appear to fancy that because widows are charming, widowers must be enchanting. In olden times the lomans took their Penates with them, but our modern men seem to especially delight in leaving everything of the sort at home;     IGS 'SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. especially their wives! But now for the Saratoga widowers: First, there is widower Grant, who is extremely rich, and therefore extremely respectable. He is al- ways dressed so neatly and so carefully, that one cannot help wondering how this lonely man is able to take such good care of himself. He has been a widower for ten years. As he has not married the second time it is universally believed that he still moaurns. And Saratoga is such a nice place in which to mourn! It is so charming to stand beside the famous springs, and imagine them to be Lethean waters, wherein all trouble and grief may be lost  forever. That is, we cannot ]lelp supposing that these waters have this effect, since widowers seeml to be blessed with remarkably short memories. You cannot converse many times with a widow without hearing her mention the late dear de- parted. She will expatiate upon his merits, his gen-  erosity, his virtues--de morttis ,nil nfisi bolnui. And thus she often awakens 'in the heart of her ad- mirer a strong desire to take the dear man's place and to emulate his virtues. But the widowers! Bal! I have talked with fifty of them, and positively I have never yet heard   WIDOWERS.        169 the defunct Mlrs. Sigma or Madame Alpha even once alluded to. I have pondered upon the subject, and have come to the conclusion that a widower who remlem- bers the spouse who died a dozen years ago (if he re- members her at alD, remzembers her as a rather old- fashioned individual, whose image soinetimnes col- fronts him amid the brilliant scenes of Saratoga, and who suffers very mnlch in comparison with the gay young belles who flourish here. In fact, he looks upon her faded mnemory as we are apt to regard an old-fashioned portrait. And he puts the old-fashioned portrait one side; turns its face to the wall, and basks in the sniles of more modern beauties. And thus it is that he never alludes to the object wholm he is believed so devoutly to molurn. As for the different types of widowers, there is the elderly man, whose hair is gray, whose teetl are nearly all gone, who has a crook in his back, and who is shaky on his knees, and yet wlho is so self-conceited, that lie imaginles every pretty woman is trying to inveigle him into perpetratilg lmatri- mony once more.   Poor man! le recalls witl trembling the lectures and admonlitions of dacys gone by, which Iis gentle spouse wls in the hablit 8     170    SIPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. of administering, and is too glad to be free from the harness to put it on again. Next comes the hale and hearty widower, with his hair tinged with gray; but with a heart as young as ever. The only reason that this mani does not get married seems to be that the young ladies snub him, and for the old ones he lhas no ad- miration. He forgets that he, himself, isold. He  is on the lookout for a young wife, and some foolish girl who is attracted by his money will at last accept him, and cozen the old man into the belief that she loves him. His after experience of connubial bliss will probably consist in finding that he has a young wife who is fonder of flirting with young men than  of stroking his gray whiskers, and rubbing his spectacles, and attending generally to his antiquated wants. "Do you think you could love an old man?" said a widower of this sort, with his most sentinen- tal air, to Miss Madge. "No, I thank you,'" replied Madge, who thought the question rather personal. "Grandpa is a dear old fellow, but then he cannot dance the ' dip,' for he is troubled with gout; he drinks Congress water, which is horrible; he snores terribly; in fact, no    wIDOWERS.        7:1 one would think of falling in love with ny grand- pa-and why should I fall in love with anyDbody else's grandpa?" Which settled the question. The most interesting and the most captivating of all widowers is the young widower. If he has one or two children, it is astonishing what a suddenl interest all the young ladies take il the " sweet little dears," howV much anxiety they exlpress on their account, and how tenderly they symplathize with the youlng man in his loss. If the young widower keeps house, how much sorrow is expressed for his lonely condition! and if the house be a brown-stone front, tie femininle sympathy is something wonderful to contempllate. Mamlmas, too, seize hold of this forlorn young man, and talk in a motherly way of the neeld ]is little ones have of maternal care-of the necessity a mansion has of a mistress, etc., etc., and then usually follows a pathetic allusion to the remlarkable domestic virtues of their own daughters. There isn't a young unmarried man who stands a chance of winning when his rival is a handsome, rich young widower. As for the widows, we have several specimens of feminine mourners here. They have such an agreeable way of mourning,     172    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. too. They wear such dainty toilettes, such airy black dresses, suell cunning little widow's caps, for there is no use of being a widow unless you let  people know it by wearing a cap. We have jolly widows here whose lives seem perpetual sunbeams; we have fair, languishing widows, sentimental widows, tall and stately widows, widows who are{ rigid and serene, to whom no man would even ven- ture to propose, and widows whose every glance is a man-trap to catch some unwary heart. Do not imnagine a widow is rich because she spends her season at Saratoga. Diamonds aind costly garments are not necessary to a widow's wardrobe, and she may, or may not, have those arti- cles at her comlmand. It is very easy to borrow a little boy; have one or two stylish mourning dresses most elaborately weeded; a cap or two of white muslin, which is after all but an apology for a cap, being a becomlingi white bow with two long ends-and come here and pass for a young widow.  Papas who have failed to marry off their daugh- ters after several expensive seasons at Saratogaa, and who find them on their hands decidedly passe, might humor the widow farce and find it quite economical.  W-. ih   WIDOwERS.        1 73 We notice that the rich widows, those who really have all they wish at command-lhave no idea of getting lmarried again. They eljoy their independence too heartily to relinquish it, which entitles them to be placed upon the list of sensible widows.     XXV. A BACHELORS TRUINKS.1 THE young man from abroad has promised to tell us about his love affairs. At present he seems to have, as he pathetically expresses it, a " morning, noon, and night love!" As I have before remarked, the young lady who is charming in the evening, is not always adorable inl the morning, and vice versa, which probably ac- counts for this young man's diversity of sweet- hearts. For a time he was desperately taken with the sweet, spirituelle face and beautiful ringlets of a fair lady here. But yesterday he discovered that the ringlets were false, and although the sweet face is still there, it has lost its charm. But, speaking of the difference between morningi and evening, even the young man from  abroad wears a new and strange aspect to-day. He is re- markably pale. He has, I fear, been refused by the merry little heiress, and although he has many times whispered his love, he refrains from circulat-   THE BACHLLOR' S TRUNK,       A BACHELOR'S TRUNKS.     175 ing his cruel disappointmenit. Poor fellow! It is such a pathetic sight to see him lose his roses, to be- hold Concealment, like a worm i' the bud, Feed on his damask cheek!" But as he has a ' love " for each time of the day, he will undoubtedly soon recover. It is no unusual circumstance for a young lady to visit Saratoga with a half dozen trunks, sundry par- cels, bandboxes, etc. Poodles are, generally, thank fortune! left at home. Probably in view of the fact that plenty of the species mlay be found here. But when a gentleman finds three trunks scarcely adequate to containing his wardrobe and "fixings," the fact certainly demands our attention. As we have had an amusing account of such a trio of trunks, which belong to a young bachelor, and of their delightful state of disorder-just as might be expected of a solitary man--we cannot help linger- ing a little while over the troubles of the owner of these same trunks-whom  we have dubbed the majestic bachelor. When he wishes to especially array himself for any particular occasion, as for instance a ball or     176     SPARKLES IFRO'OM SARATOGA.  hop, he is obliged to call in the assistance of a friend to assist him at his toilette. The first business of this "full dress" occasion is, of course, to find the garments required. The friend kindly consents to rummnage: the three trunks, and being informed that there rlrks some-. where in the recesses of those receptacles, a swallow- tail coat, he commences to search-" fishing for bites/, as he quaintly expresses it. Hle dives into tlrunk number One.  The first thing which appears, is a pair of inexpressibles, considerably too short and too narrow for their owner,-evidently not a dress coat. The next plunge brings up a pair of boots, crammed with white cravats, and gloves of all colors. Examination reveals the cravats too rumpled for further use, and the gloves are entirely too small for the majestic bachelor, since they bear evi- dence of having been worn by fair hands alone. Which is also strongly suggestive of the fact that these gloves are sundry ccges d'acnour which this young man has received. If the young ladies whlo bestowed thein could only see that pair of boots, which has, alas, become their common receptacle! Further search in that trunk brings up no coat of the desired pattern, it being filled to overflowing .          .    A BACHELOR'S TRUNKS.      1" with a nondescript amount of clothing, mixed ip with boot-jacks, bowie-knives, Indian pipes, black. tresses which must have been clipped fromn some Indian enchantress, for our friend has roughled it on the frontiers, ald, in fact, everythilng but; the re- quired garment. Trunk No. Two then undergoes inspection. And, lo! what a revelation is tlhre!  Photo- graphs of all styles of femiinie leautics-not a hor- rid man among them!-sweet, tender missives w'it- ten by fair hands which have been forgotten lolng ago, and--mirabile dictu!--the locks of hair! Really it would be well for this majestic bachelor to have a little sale of false tresses, for he has an alarming collection of black and brown, of red and golden tresses; in fact, of every shade of hair which ever adorned a woman's head. Perhaps it is because "woman's hair is like wine," as he is fond of saying, that hle has so care- fully treasured up the collection. It is painful to reflect how this foolish man must have been deceived. How many of those locks does he suppose really grew upon the heads of their wearers? And what young lady in these days has ringlets lux- uriant enough to spare a lock to each of her lovers 8*     178     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. And then, again, what young lady would care to see her lovelock mingled with such a mass of di- verse tresses as were huddled together in this man's trunk? Those photographs, too! Ball! the fickleness aid inconstancy of man! Every nook and corner of that trunk was filled with these mementos of past affections, a perfect forest of dead leaves; and with these, also, were dozens of  embroidered slippers, watch-pockets, smoking-caps, and embroidered cravats, all made by fair fingers, and presented to this thankless man. But still no dress coat. With a look of despair, this bachelor's friend throws open the third trunk. To describe what there met his astonished gaze, I will not even attempt. Whoever has peeped into a bachelor's sanctum, or investigated a bachelor's trunk, may conceive of the grand confusion, the utter contempt of the motto, "Everything in its place," which this trunk revealed. Suffice it to say that the trunk was thoroughly searched; then its contents emptied upon the floor-but still no swallow- tail! The two other trunks shared the same fate, and the bachelor's sanctum presented a fearful picture of disorder. And then, after all, the coat was found   A BACHELOR'S TRUNKS.     19 n-at last, hanging upon a solitary peg behind the door! just like a man's forgetfulness t And so the majestic bachelor, and his friend, who, by the way, happens to be no other thlan the young man from abroad, went at last to the ball. ." ';     XXVI. TIE TOURNAMENT. WHO would not be in Saratoga and witness a tournament                   . Yesterday afternoon, at five o'clock, this long- talked-of affair came off at Glenl Mitchell, a short distance from Saratoga. A heavy shower of rain was near spoiling all, but Jupiter Pluvius, evidently pitying the disconsolate knights who, clad in armor, and mounted upon their fiery steeds, were im- patiently awaiting the great tilt for the privilege of crowning the fair Queen of Love and BeaLty, ald, doubtless, remembering his own gushing youth alndd numerous flirtations, suddenly retreated, and the sun shone once more, and everything was lovely. Especially the knights, who moved down Broad- way, an imposing cortege of warriors, their armor glittering in the sun, and their helmets shading their mighty brows! Madge says " mighty brows" is stolen from Ho- mer, but it matters not. Iere were faithful aspirants for fame from the   THE TOURNAMENT.      181 sunny South, from the frigid North, and from under the melting skies of Saratoga. Every one here will appreciate that term "m elt- ing." At the head of this imposing array rode the Chief MBarshal, distinguished for his princely bearing, his soldierly horsemanship, and above all, for the large yellow umbrella which he flaunlted in the skies to protect his war-bronzed features from the fervid sun. On they rode, followed by scores and scores of sparkling bright eyes; on they rode, a goodly com- paly of noble youths, filling the hearts of the stiff old bachelors and forlorn old maidens with envy. Soberly these elderly individuals scratched their bare-faced heads and wished, alas! to be young once more. On they rode, followed by a long retinue of splen- did equipages filled with the wealth and beauty of the elite -by, the village people en masse, and by every little boy who had chivalry enough to despise the mud pools under his feet, and by every cur who had lungs enough to utter a bark. Every stage and every hack, filled to overflowing with people on the qui vive to witness a tournament, rattled on with incredible speed toward Glen Mit- chell.     182    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Arrived at this enchanting spot, we found the grounds already filled with carriages, and the grand stand thronged with fair ladies and their escorts. Much amusement was created by a small boy-a very small boy-who wore a mighty helmet from which floated a long red plume, and who held a huge trumpet in his hand. This small personage stood with a nonchalant air upon the top of a fence post, and with a mighty blast of the trumpet heralded the oncoming of each brave knight; and at every powerful blast he blew we feared that the small boy would be suddenly capsized. Three small rings wound with red were hung at intervals over the course, and each knight was ex- pected t, take each of these rings upon his lance as he went by on his flying steed. But he didn't. The trouble was not that the riders were lacking  in skill, but, unfortunately, most of the horses re- fused to fly! The obstinate creatures, who evidently had no spark of chivalric feeling in their jaded breasts, went leaping into the air at every sound of the trum- pet, splashed around in the fearful tmud puddles, or gracefully reared their hind hoofs against the near- est fence!   THE TOURNAMENT.       183 Really these horses seemed for once inspired with ambition, but it was the same ambition which thrilled that venturesome cow who, once upon a time, is said to have "j umpled over the moon!" These Saratoga coursers objected to spurs; they were afraid of lances ; and were obstinately resolved not to wet their precious hoofs in the pools which lay in their proper course; but they tried every puddle to the right of them, and plunged frantically at every fence to the left of them, which made it extremely inconvenient to their gallant riders to carry off the rings. It is no wonder that these equine fantastics ut- terly dismayed the gallant knights, and many bit- terly repented that they had left their peaceful homes in the sunny South in quest of Northern fame. But who that is worthy of the name of Knight would give up the combat? The more dangers to be passed, the greater difficulties to be overcome; the greater the victory; and if not a Pegasus was to be found among the steeds, surely there were Bay- ards, and Ivanhoes, and Quixotes enough among the knights. And so the tilt commenced, and those whose horses consented to go went flying past the rings,     184    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. and cheer after cheer followed the knight who suc- cessfully brought back the three iupon- his lance. Those who failed were laughed at for their pains, which was not very courteous on the part of the spectators, since some of the best riders were so poorly mounted as to be unable to win any honors at all. During the tilt there were some splendid displays of horsemanship. The knights who especially dis- tinguished themselves were the Knight of Wash- ington City; the Knight of Fairfax; the Knight of Ontario; the'Knight of AMy l[Marylanld; the Knight of Troy; the Knight of Marlborough; and the Knight of Prince George. We must not forget to mention that no one as- sisted the gallant Chief Marshal in the manage- ment of that yellow umbrella. The glory of suc- cessfully carrying that unique affair through the tournament belongs to him alone. The grand ball in the evening at the Grand Union, which brought the tournament festivities to a close, was a brilliant success. The principal event of the evening was the crown- ing of the Queen of Love and Beauty, and of her six maids of honor, these ladies being selected by the seven victorious knights mentioned above. The   THE TOURNAMENT.       185 name of each knight and of his chosen lady was gracefully announced, and the honor of crownllin the queen was accorded to the Knigillt of Washing'- ton City. And so ended the grand tournament. We have a troop of wild Mexicans here who give a daily exhibition of lariating wild cattle, as is the custom on the plains of the far West and in Texas. In fact there is no dearth of amusemenlts. The only trouble is to find time to taste of every pleasure as it flies. %it -     XXVII. THE EACES. MADGE offended Aunt P. almost mortally yester- day by raving over the perfections of Iicarry Bas- sett from "morn till dewy eve," and never tellingo her that this splendid creature was only a horse. Of course Aunt Prim would as soon think of reading what she calls George Sand's " wicked novels,' as of looking over the- programme of a race. And as for attending a race-our worthy aunt would expect to be annihilated upon the spot, or at least to be removed from this happy world to one not quite so enjoyable, should she yield to her curiosity to witness such iniquity. But the rest of our party entertained no such fears, since we found the seats devoted to ladies upou the Grand Stand to be covered with c/hzrch cush/ions and plenty of priests and members of their congregations just as intent as we were upon seeing the evils of horse- racing. Even Aunt Prim might have been satisfied to have found herself in such respectable society.   THE RACES.        187 As for the immorality of betting, I am sorry to say that several ladies were provided with little books and pencils, which they kept in constalt use, 1and a profusion of greenbacks passed through their white, jewelled fingers during the races. If ladies will wager money upon a race, would it not be better to settle the matter in private, and not to flaunt their ill-gotten gains before the public gaze? We saw one pert little Miss, about twelve years old, going- around among her friends with a small book in her hand and taking all the odds she could gather against Barney Williams. These little bets seemed mostly to be entered as kid gloves, perfumery, or some such trifles. In the course of conversation little Miss proved herself to be quite as much at home in the odd vernacular of the race-course as was her papa. Peally, it is wonderful to mark the progressive spirit of the rising generation in this age! The only wickedness worthy to be recorded which Madge perpetrated at the races was that of risking one of her brown curls upon Harry Bassett, at the earnest solicitation of the Colonel. I did not hear the Colonel's wager, but I have no doubt his heart was at stake.     188     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. -le lost, of course. Harry Bassett won the Kennel stakes-and it was a splendid sight to see this noble animal before the race began, careering madly upon the turf, withl his nostrils expanded, his eyes flashing fire, and almost unmnanageable in the hands of his rider, so eager was he to enter tthe contest. In fact he suc- ceeded once in his wild rearing and plunging to send the jockey flying over his head, but the jockey was evidently used to such playful tricks and did not mind it. Why don't they dress the jockeys in a becoming manner  Such a grotesque-looking group of black imps arrayed in faded yellow, green, or blue costumes, would surely awaken the merriment of the specta- tors were they not so much absorbed with interest in the hoses. The third race-the summer handicap-occa- sioned considerable discussion in our little party. We all undertook to explain the term "h andi- cap." Madge thought the horses probably wore " caps,' of course of the latest style! Fitz Hugh said they passsed the cap around to collect money when this race was over; but the Colonel, who appeared, after ,r   THE RACES.        189 all, to be the most perfectly au fait in wickedness, finally explained the matter. I am not so sure, however, that we fully under- stand it yet. The steeple-chase which followed was both novel and exciting. How the horses went flying alollg over the green turf, leaping hedges and stone walls with the speed of an arrow; and clearinlg the 1pools of water beyond the walls, without so 1much as wet- ting their flying hoofs. Every one looked on in a state of breathless excitement. Madge became utterly oblivious of the Colonel. Fitz Hugh sighed in vain, and tried his best to have revenge in getting up a flirtation with the lady who sat behind him.  Probably, however, his a,dmiratio of her bright eyes dropped to zero when she exclaimed, as a jockey went flying over his horse's head: "Dear me! is he hurted?" The way those horses threw their riders as they went oh their mad gallop over the hedges was something to be wondered at, as well as the sudden dexterity with which the jockeys remounted and rushed on to the goal. But races are cruel things, wicked things, despite     190    SPARKLES' FROM SARATOGA. the interest and the excitement they never fail to arouse. Think of poor Longfellow, that splendid animal, flying over the turf swift as ally bird, with his proud carriage of head, with his flashing eyes so full of intelligence and power-a  horse that rivalled in beauty and speed the famous Kochlani  breed of the far East, descendants of King Solo-  meon's swiftest coursers-Longfellow but the day before yesterday king of the turf, no other daring to dispute his well-earned honors with him, and yesterday, dragging his feeble limbs from  the course, drooping his head mournfully as he went, the wreck of the beauty and strength he was but an hour before, driven to the death for sordid gold, and all to amuse a gaping, wondering crowd And this is why racing is so cruel. Not satisfied with a horse which accomplishes marvels of strength and speed, his owner must test his utmost powers of en- durance, and the poor brute is lashed to a cruel death. Truly, who thinks of making so much of a mo- ment of time as the owner of a fleet racer? It does seem as though the intelligence of a brute often surpassed that of his master. Fifty thousand dollars was refused this week for   THE RACES.        191 this superb Longfellow, and to-day he is worth comparatively nothing. The great four-mile dash between Longfellow and Hellmbold was the most exciting race of the season, having been long talked  of, and thou- sands of people were upon the ground to witness it. In the first three miles around Longfellow kept ahead of his rival, with his magnlificent strides, which seemed to spurn the brown earth; but oln the last mile his endurance gave way, ald llelmbold easily passed him, and reached the goal amid a burst of overwhelming cheers. Hundreds of caps went flying up in the air, and the little darkies-who were as thick as blackber- ries in July, and who sat perched like so many blackbirds all in a row " upon the white fences-- leaped from their position as the horses canme round upon the homie stretch, and went rolling over and over on the grass in an extravagance of joy. I have no patience with beautiful AMaude, who sat near us at the races. She was so engrossed with the soft words and tender glances of youlln Limber- flap, that she failed altogether to catch the spirit of the hour, and the horses might have had wings like     192     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Pegasus, and their riders have been dressed in the hues of the rainbow, without absorbing  Miss Maude to the degree of forgetfulness of her new lover. We drove back from the race-course over Lake Avenue, which has been so graphically described as the avenue with "three elegant rows of shade trees.") We saw those trees-barren sticks about ten feet high, with a little bunch of leaves on their tops, with not enough verdure to shelter a bird, alnd witl a possible shade ten years off. Yet over this smooth, wide road, there is a con- stant rolling of elegant equipages; aid what would become of the display of costly toilettes if there were too many trees? For a truly delightful drive give me some narrow winding road where the tall forest trees cast darkll shadoWvs over the wav, imparting a dilm, mysterious look to the depths beyond them, and with little glimpses of runnin g brooks flashing back the few sunbeams they catch between the thick foliage. Then the birds flitting from bough to bough, twittering their love-songs with no fear of listeners, and the bright-eyed squirrels peeping out upon you from the roadside, as if in wonder that intruders should venture so near their haunts.   XXVIII. PLYING THE NEEDLE. NOTING the remarkable efforts of Miss Industry upon the piazza after dinner, as she weaves brighlt colors upon the canvas with her needle, remillds me that when I was a "wee bit of a girl," in short frocks and pinafores, Aunt Prim exerted her best eldeavors, and I have no doullt tried her patience to the utmost, in teaching me to sew. It was a tire- somle task, I remember well, for hemnminlg 1and- kerchiefs and darnling stocklings always failed to awaken my childish enthusiasm. It was so much easier and pleasanter to ramble through bushes and briars, and clambel ver r fences, to the serious detriment of aprons and dresses, than it was to do penance afterward by having to menlid them. It was one of Aunt Prim's favorite theories that no girl was fit to get married who could not darn a stocking neatly ; and so, as I was expected to grow up and attain the old-fashioned goal of womlanly 9     194    SPARKLES FROM 'SARATOGA, ambition-to be married--I was early initiated into the mysterious art of darning. But this employment merited and awakened my everlasting disgust when the committee of a county fair, having offered a prize for the best specimen of needle-work to be displayed in a pair of darned stoclkings, ,ald these to be done by an unmarried lady, I timidly sent in my specimen, which every- body declared was "beautifully done," and I flattered myself that I was sure to obtain the prize, when lo! an officious old maid---fifty years old-flourished her mended hose triumtphantly before that com- mittee and bore away the prize. I never could discover the justice of this decision -for if that woman did happen to be unmarried, I'm sure she was old enough to have been married long before. I calnot forget that while acquiring the art of the needle, I often felt inclined to wish all the men who made needles were enjoying themselves together at the bottom of the Red Sea. How the thread would snarl, the seams would pucker, and how I, losing all patience, would com- mence to cry, and the tears, blinding, my eyes, would thrust the sharp needle into my little fingers instead of into the wayward muslin.   PLYING THE NEEDLE.      195 And there was Aunt Prim, always enjoining upon me': "Sophie, my child, be sure to fasten the threads well, alnd to hide the knot." And then, with a skilful turn of the needle, slhe would thrust the ugly knot under the delicate hem, and all would appear smooth and neat. I wondered how she did it, for I never could do it in those days. The days of hand-sewinl, thank Heaven, are almost over. No longer shall womanl be enslaved to that cruel little despot, the needle-that miiserable tyrant, which stitched, and stitched her very soul out of Paradise! Now, the sewing-machine, that cearest of modern Penates, which "has never a soul to save," does the tiresome work of the -needle; and, arguing fromn the constant inventions intended to dispense with humian labor, by and by we shall have nothing to do with ruffles and tucks, except to wear them. Those days, I think, will be the dawning of the millennium -at least to womankind. But, though no longer I sit beside Aunnt Primn learning to "hide the knot," thee re a still knots to be hidden and threads to be fastened well. What is a besetting sin but a knot, which requires to be concealed and smoothed away fron, our lives? What is the first footstep toward evil, but a I- k      196    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. loosened tAhead, which, unless carefully secured, will rip and ravel until all is lost? Envy, pride, malice, and a thousand otler sils of petty magnritude, are all knots in human nature- the snags which roughen the otherwise smooth current of life. There is Nettie Ray, who is one of the loveliest girls to be met. Her eyes are as radiant as two stars; her dear little head is ' all running over with curls," and the lily and the rose are blended in her  complexion; the dimples play at hide and seek  around her dainty little mouth when she smiles-and Nettie Ray smiles often, but not altways. There is, alas! an ugly knot in Nettie's character which it would be well if sle could forever hide. She has an unhappy way of allowing her temper to "run away with her;" of letting the fire of angry passion burn until it consumes all the sweet buds of love and affection which cluster around her. And when the tempest of anger has sway over her, Nettie Ray is lovely no longer. Perhaps she had no Aunt Prim when she was, a child, to teach her how to hide the knot.. And there is old Father Mildew. He has the blandest temper in the world, but he is the most penurious old man who ever begrudged taking a   PLYING THE NEEDLEo      197 step because it wore out shoe leather. For him there is no joy so sweet as coluting his gold. Ie views the ever-increasiln pile with exquisite delight, and his long, thin finglers tremblle with eagerness as he places coin upon coin and note upon note. Father Mildew is a faithful attendanlt at church, and regards the unrighteous ones of this world with holy horror. He is a devotee, it is true, but to all outward ap- pearance his god is Mammon. Christian though he flatters himself to be, Father Mildew would proba- bly experience a keen pang of regret if required to leave this world for the untold joys of heaven, since he could not carry his treasure with him. Poor old man!  He fancies that the world is blind to his avariciousness. But it is every day displayed; dis- played by his poor wife and daughters, who go so shabbily dressed, and who are obliged to eke out their existence with the utmost economy. His chil- dren, who, after all, must some day inherit all his wealth, are scantily fed, scantily dressed, and scantily educated. The rich mines of learning, the treasures of art, the paths of culture which lead to eminlence or fame are closed to them, since their father's gripinlg hand     198    SPAIaKLES FROIM SARATOGA. withholds the gold which might enrich their minds and hearts. No concerts, no lectures, no delightful wanderings through galleries of art for those young people. No piano in the house, no painting, scarcely an engraving-and, as for books, Father Mildew was never known to purchase anything in that line ex- cept a ledger. The daily life of such a family is necessarily cold and hard, and, instead of experiencing the loving care of a generous father, Father Mildew's children are taught that they should be thankful for their bread and butter, and expect nothing more. And so, while the family are starving soul and body, the pile of gold increases. But every day lessens the short distance between that old man and the grave. Father Mildew must relinquish his treasure at last and go the way of all mankind. The probability of such an event has, it would seem, occurred to his mind, since it is really true that in a dark corner of his house lies the coffin which lie purchased for himself, and which, so says the world, he purchased after long haggling and parleying, for fifty cents less th/an the price, be- cause it had a crack in it. It will readily be supposed, that after he is gone,   PLYING THE NEEDLE.      199 his children-who have never been taught to cnl- trol money-will forget everythingt but the new- found pleasure of spending it, and so the carefully hoarded savings will after all be wasted. Had old Father Mildew been more liberal; had lhe shown his clildren that there is more virtue in spendingl wisely than in hoarding foolishly, had they received the advantages which he was fully able to give the, then-as Aunt Prim would say-- tlhe threads would have been fastened well," and his wealth would not be squandered, like stitches which drop, one after another, until all are gone. The very opposite of the vice of avarice, as ex- hibited in meagreness of life and closeness of purse, is the inordinate love of display evinced by some people. With them every dollar is spread out in an al- most marvellous way, until the absurd world allows itself to be really dazzled by what is, after all, but the thinnest spreading of gold over a miass of empti- ness and deceit! What useless heart-burnings-what little jealousies and rankling sorrows, sting like venomous serpents in this vain strife of folly. The truest happiness is the most unselfish. An unselfish action never fails to bring more pleasure     200    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. than one which springs from a selfish motive. A good deed is a pebble thrown into the stream of life. Tle pebble cast into the stream causes the eddying waves to form a circle which widens ald widens until it is lost il the vast deeps of the ocean. So the good deed extends its influence throulgh the world in a circle which forever increases until it tounches the shores of the Infinite, and there receives its reward. The sum of life is made up of little things. It is the petty sins, rather than great crimes, which cause the greater portion of the world's unhappiness. The everyday follies which need to be overcome, the little knots which ruffle our tempers, are those w-hich embitter our lives. If these could be con- quered, and laid away out of sight forever, what a comfortable world this would -be to live in!   XXIX. HNTS TO HUSBANDS. IT is always amusing to hear the sage philoso- phers among those who style themselves the "lords of creation," prate about the qdiet life of wo0ma! I should like any one of them to take his book, his pen, or his ledger, and seat himnself for one hour in the nursery! I should like to have a ccarte de vsite of the manat who would patiently endure to be shut up for ole whole cay in a room with five or six healthy, active, romping children. That picture should have a most honored place in my album! You may talk of the bustle of business, of the noise of the outer world, and the quiet precincts of home, but I have never yet listened to a racket which could compare with the shouting, lalughinlg, wrangling, and screaming of half a dozen children shut up in that fabled qdiet home. There is the incessant pattering of little feet; the clashing and clattering of dilapidated toys; the 9*     202     SPARKLES FROMr SARATOGA. creaking of chairs as they perform the various duties of both horses and cars; the upsetting of tables; the tearilng, of clothes and the bursting of buttons; the loud lamentations over bumped heads and injured noses; and, chiming in with all this, are the fearful cries or endless wailing of "the baby" who is teething! And over this modern Bedlam usually presides some patient, weary m(other, whose unstrung nerves and throbbing head betoken anything but a quiet life. Now, any man who would endure this overpow- ering din, this woman's quiet, duringt the short time of one revolution of the earth upon its axis, and preserve his serenity of mind undisturbed, ought to receive a gold medal, and to be leld up forever as a model for all husbands and fathers to imitate. And yet nearly every mother of a family who has children to be proud of-for all bright, healthy children are sure to be boisterous--is obliged to en- lure this noise and confusion every day, while no one thinks of re warding her for enduring it patiently! If the burdenl becomes intolerable, and she frets, or loses her temper, the poor woman is said to be cross, or a scold. It is not to be wondered at, perhaps, that men   -IINTS TO HUSBANDS.     203 are inclined to picture home as a cuiet place. After the business of the day is over, the pater- famtziics seeks his fireside. The iroguish little ones who from dawn to nightfall have beeel the very cn- bodiient of perpetual motion, are at last tired of - Iplay, and one by one drop off into slTmber. Even the baby, having exhausted himself with fretful- ness, shuts his eyes for a short nap, wherewith to recruit the strength of his lhmgs for the next waking hours. ' =   TThe mother sits quietly menlding tie torn little garments which the sleepers have cast off, and the father looks over his evening paper, or smokes his cigar, in blissful repose before the lceerful fire. No wonder the father fancies that home is a quiet place! But there must be daylight as well as gaslight for viewing impartially the scenes around the do- mestic hearth. Surely woman needs no reproaches for wishing to enlarge her sphere. I think it would do no harm if every wife mwho has beeln making an angel of herself for an indefi-   nite period of time ; who has been an all-endurilng, lolg-suffering, devoted martyr to her hlsband's caprices, should change her tactics foi a time. I     204    SPARKiLES FROM SARATOGA. Not but that all wives should endeavor to be good wives, but then husbands are so apt to " entertain angels unawares!" They should be allowed to perceive the difference between holne with the angel and home without her, lest they neglect to duly appreciate the divinity of the household. Now, husbands think nothing of taking them- selves off for a few days, or even longer, by way of recreation and amusement, and it passes my com- prehension entirely, why a wife should be always expected to stay at home, tied to the self-same spot forever by invisible chains which are as binding as were the laws of the Medes and Persians. Why should the wife alnd mother go about from day to day, bearing always her burden of toil and care, and never laying it aside? Why should she not have the liberty to escape from thraldom once in a while as well as her hus- band? This is a good thing to contemplate, ye fathers and husbands who are already planning your little summler vacations. Don't go away and leave your wives at home! If you are a man of laborious pursuits, you may need rest and relief from care, but your wife needs it also.   HNTS TO HUSBANDS.      205 The fresh air of the country, the relaxation from toil, or the gayety of the watering-place, which in- spires you with new life and new hope, will also bring back the roses to your wife's pale cheek, and the old gleam of lovelight to her eyes.    Don't go away selfishly to enjoy yourself, and leave your wife frettilg and toiling at home. "All work and no play, makes Jack a dull boy.'" This is an old maxim and a true one. Yet how plainly it shows upon the face of it that it was first written by some selfish specimenl of the ygenus nlan! Not one word is said of "Jack's " mnother, sister, o'r wife. As if "Jack ,' were the ollyl person of sufficient importance to be considered, and as if Susie or Mollie were not quite as likely to be made "dull " by overwork, as "Jack "! But the world was not made solely for ' Jack's " amusement and comfort, and it is quite time he knew it. Suppose the mistress of the family should take it into her head to follow the example of her husband, and leave home for a two or three days' visit? Sie lupsets the house for a general sweeping or cleaning, anld then forgets to readjust it! She leaves the baby in the cradle with full liberty     206    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. to develop his lungs, according to the baby's pet method of performing that process'! She gives the elder children plenty of bread and syrup with which to appease their appetites; puts on the dilmer pot, but neglects the fire; and disap- pears a couple of hours before papa's return. Would not there be a funny scene when that dear man comes home? "My dears," he would say to the molasses-orna- mented cherubs of his hearth, ' where is your ma  "Dawn for a wisit! lisps two-year old. "Indeed!" says papa, wonderingly. "I want my dinner!" clamors the eldest. "My hands all 'ticky!" says two-year old, vainly endeavoring to clean the little fingers on his pin- afore, to the decided embellishment of that gar- ment. "Aa--aa-aa! Boo-oo-oo!" shrieks the baby in the cradle. Papa picks up the baby with a despairing look upon his face, and looks into the dinner pot. Everything placid there! No water bubbling and sputtering because it is required to boil! Papa remembers the old adage which says: "A watched pot never boils; and replacing the cover, he looks into the stove.   "INTS TO IUSBANDS.     207 Everything quiet there also. Not the slightest trace of red-hot, angry coals. Mamma did not mlean thlt the children should burn thleselSves on tlat stove. Papa next goes inlto the larder, carrying the baby, and followed by the other juveniles, and inspired with the fond hope of finding some delicious lits there in the shape of " cold victuals!" Not a pie--nor cake-not even a cold potato meets his expectant gaze! And then this mluch-injured, aggrieved man bc- takes himself back to his desolate hearth, followed by all the syrup-sweetened cherubs--and longing for the return of her who alone can brilln order to this chaotic home. He fully realizes the discomforts of "home with- out a mother!  There is a painful void in the wonted place of that sweet felninine magician, who always nanagles to have everything so cosey and comfortable, and who casts over all the halo of her own sunny pres- ence. Yet, somehow or other, she is seldom appre- ciated until she disappears from the fireside-when presto! how great the change! This state of affairs might seem rather hard at first sight, but then it is a pity not to give husbands the opportunity of being angelic once in a while!     208    SPARKLES FROMT SARATOGA. What husband ever thinks of asking his wife if he can leave bomne? And why should not the wife have the same liberty? It would afford such a re- freshing variety to the hum-drcl m monootony of everyday life, to let the wife break a few of the domestic jars, while the husband meekly picks up the pieces, with only a ' Don't, my dear!" uIsbands should learn to be patient and lamb- like as well as wives. The would-be rulers of this world have appointed separate paths for man and woman. The public highway which leads to wealth or fame is for man; the cool, sequestered vale for woman. M1an is made to toil in the full light of the sun; woman to bloom in the shade. Blue violets and golden buttercups are supposed to be ever springing up mnder woman's feet, which she has only to stoop to gather in her hand-so the poets say. But the thorns which so cruelly pierce her feet, the bramble-bushes which tear her delicate hands, and the reptiles which creep through the shining grass, awaiting their opportunity to sting, are utterly ignored. Nothing is said of the thunder-clouds which lower -over this qdiet path for woman. Possibly it is sup- posed that man's affection will afford a screen from these.   hINTS TO HUSBANDS.     209 Bah! there is more virtue in one good, blue cot- ton umbrella for protection from the storm than in a man's love! And more reliance is to be placed in it, too. Wonmen are continually warned not to leave their own peculiar walk in life for the rough pathway of man. But if the public highway be paved with stones, men certainly have amused themselves with the boyish pastime of pitching them, since they have fallen most plentifully along the green, quiet path for woman! If men would only desist from this destructive and perilous amusement, and no longer ruthlessly crush the violets and buttercups that springl up around a woman's feet with rough cobble stones, the Garden of Eden might bloom again, and woman have no need to hurl back the pebbles at her assail- ants and cry out for the protection of her violets and buttercups! There are few women, I may venture to say, but would willingly choose the sphere of a quiet home to that of any other; few but would prefer the green, sequestered vale of life, if through it lay the paths of love and pleasantness and peace! 4 t     xxx. ALL ABOUT BONNETS. IF any one for a moment supposes that a lady's bonnet has nothing to do with the progression of the age, or that its tiny weight can have no possible bearing upon the great questions of the day, that person is very much mistaken. Women need ask no better signal of their comling release from thraldom than that displayed by the modern 'love of a bonnet." Every rose-bud that nestles above beauty's fair brow; every ribbon that flutters in the breeze, is the herald of approaching victory. To prove all this, and to refute the wiseacres who aver that the present is by no means equal to the past, I have only to bring to mind that revolu- tionary relic of my sainted great-grandmother, which lies at home in a neglected corner, with the dust of a century upon its expansive brim and faded flowers, and to flourish triumphantly beside it my last new bonnet. This bonnet of mine, it is true, is not much to   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      2" speak of in the way of size; only a red rose peeping out from a bit of lace, a scrap of velvet, an-d two long fluttering blue ribbons, just to give the whole al air of reality--that is all. There are people who spend their precious time in lamenting the past, while they utterly ignore the blessings of the present. But to me, this jaunty little hat, fresh from the hands of the milliner, is an inestimable joy when compared to the bonnet of my earliest recollections. The bonnet of my childhood! Ah, if there be lurking in my gentle heart one atom of implacable animosity, it is against that bonnet. How I wish that I could instantaneously photo- graph upon the " mind's eye " of the reader my re- markable personal appearance as I appeared in the head-gear of that period. That is, the bonnet appeared, but as for myself, the only clue to my identity was to be found in a pair of small shoes, a ruffle or two, and the hem of an a pron. I was completely enveloped in the embrace of my direst foe-a foe hated as profoundlly as the memory of Bluebeard, and dreaded almost as much as the terrible bears, which I firmly believed were     212     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. lurking in unseen places, ready at aly moment to spring out and devour naughty little girls. That bonnet stood between me and heaven; for what glimpses could I catch of the bright blue sky above when lost in its bewildering depths? It also initiated me in the wicked art of decep- tion by leading into irresistible temptation, for the instant I escaped far enough from home to avoid the ever-watchful maternal eye, that bonnet came suddenly off from my head, and had it been gifted with speech it might have complained loudly of violence. But the half of my tribulations would fail to be realized did I omit to describe this distasteful affair. It was made of strips of pasteboard about a foot in length, which were so arranged as to project over the face. These were covered with blue lawn, and a huge ruffle was added to the front by way of iln- parting .an artistic finish. A long cape was attached to protect my neck and arms from the fervor of the sun. People in those days had evidently no faith in the sun-cure. It would be impossible to give the exact length of that bonnet-cape, for " still the wonder grew; since, for every inch added to my stature, my   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      213' mother added an inch to that cape, so that I seemed destined never to escape from its tyranny. Iow I envied my brother Fred the jaunty little cap which rested so lightly on his golden curls. If anything chanced to awaken his boyish enthu- siasm, it was but the work of an instant to snatch that cap from his head and to send it far up into the ail, as he shouted "1lhurrah! hurrah!" If I attempted to follow his examlple, even though I was successful in untying a perplexing pair of strings firmly fastened under my chin, I was doomed to dis- appointment, for that pasteboard iniquity always refused to soar. It needed nothilng more than the sight of Fled's cap careering in the air to early instil into my mind a keen sense of the inequality between the sexes, and of the cruel wrongs we poor feinilles had to endure. The very fact that Fred would have scouted the idea of appearing in a girl's bonnet was enougll to condemn it. I have seen a boy baby of less thanl two years rebel furiously at having a sun-bonnet tied under his dimpled chin by his anxious mamma. But I never saw an embryo belle behave inl like manner. Little girls usually accept their fate witl the most commendable meekness.     214    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Why shouldn't Fred be compelled to grope his way about the garden, over high fences, and to climb trees in a huge sun-bonnet as well as I  For over fences and up the trees I followed Fred, at the imminent risk, however, of suddenly depart- ingl from this world. Not that I was unadapted by nature for perform- ing these gymnastic feats as well as my brother, but because I was hampered and hedged in by a tire- some lot of ruffles and flounces, which were not to be torn, and my vision was sadly obscured by an in- tervening wall of pasteboard. The only wonder is that I escaped being a youth- ful martyr to fashion, and reached the years of maturity with unbroken limbs. Why I wore sun-bonnets while Fred rejoiced in caps was a perplexing problem which I often re- solved in my mind without arriving at any satisfac- tory conclusion. At last the matter was made plain to me. I dis- covered that it was my mother's especial solicitude that my complexion should be untouched by the sun or the wind. If the sun kissed Fred's rosy cheeks with ardor, it only added to hs beauty, and it was remarked what a lovely color he had.   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      215 But as for poor me, what greater misfortune could happen to a girl than to be browned and freckled by the sun? Nut-brown maids were not at all in favor with those who had the care of my childhood, and so I was compelled to grope my melancholy way out of doors, almost hidden from the light-that some day, far off in the future, somebody else's "lbrother Fred" might find me as fair as a lily, with a col- plexion of roses and cream, and so surrender his heart- at once. But as I had no ambition in those days for the future conquests I was intended to make, and had not the slightest desire to rival the lily or the snow in whiteness, was it any wonder that I sometimes rebelled  The pasteboard sun-bonnet was doleful enoughi in a fresh state, but it reached its climax of horrors when the paper lost its stiffness, and every adverse wind flapped it defiantly in my face. At last I positively refused to submit to this in- quisition any longer, and as I remained firm, fashion had to change. The next contrivance which was devised to keep me in durance vile by debarring my eyes from all     216     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. but slight glimpses of either heaven or earth, was a gingham bonnet gathered over large cords. This also was finished around the front with a ruffle, and displayed the inevitable cape. The experience of later years has often led me to wonder if ruffles had not a great deal to do with the insipidity of women-a man's attire is so plailln while a woman's garment is covered with superflu-  ous nonsense. While so muich adornment is lav- ished upon the outer self, it would not be strange if the intelligence was sometimes sadly neglected. Having received the last touch of the needle, this new miracle of womanly skill was starched to its utmost capacity and ironed in the laundress' very best style. With this affair securely tied upon my rebellious head, I set forth for a ramble with Fred. Alas! and alas!  The four winds of heaven seemed to have broken loose for the especial purpose of howling inside of that bonnet. How they whistled and shrieked in their shrillest tones about my ears, inside of that terrible bonnet, which creaked and rlattled in response as if with the wildest joy! I took it off and viewed it with a new dismay. I tried to persuade Fred to change his old cap for -. ,   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      217 my new bonnet; but, of course, Fred wouldn't. In fact, I never could discover in Fred the slightest desire to possess a bonnet, although I often sounded him upon the subject. With a feeling that bordered upon the sublimity of despair, I replaced the hateful covering upon my head. And, while I stood irresolute as to the first defensive step I should take in regard to this new grievance, a kindly gust of wind carried the bonnet off from my ]ead and left it in the middle of a tub- full of water. No one could ever shake my belief in providential interferences after tlat. How the pride and stiff pomposity of that bit of gingham  suddenly collapsed in the water, until it became a linp, flilmsy lag which nobody had need to fear. The poor thing was evidenltly out of its element. I rubbed my hands with childish glee at this mishap, and actually borrowed Fred's cap to toss in the air, the better to express my joy at the end of this new trouble. But the end was not yet come, for lo! upon the mnorrow, the bonnet, having undergone some 1tnys- terious process in the kitchen, repepeared "as good as new." 10     218    SPARKLES FROM SARAlTOGA  Its first exploit in the water, however, did not. ;i escape mly mind, and one day when I went fishing with Fred, somehow- -accidentally, of course--that bonnet fell into the stream and floated beyond our reach out towards the sea. I have often reflected upon its ultimate fate, since it seemed destined to  have a career. And, being of a poetic turn of mind, I composed a sonnet upon the occasion, whitlch suggested that my persecutor had been snatched up  as a prize by some luckless mermaid. I only hope it did. not break her heart  I also wrote a lament for its departure, prompted by the same spirit of grief which impels people sometimes to express sorrow for the loss of a friend whom they would by no means bring back to this world.  The only advantage I ever could discover in the old-fashioned sun-bonnet was, that if any presump- tuous schoolboy ever felt tempted to give his little sweetheart a kiss, that bonnet most effectually op- posed him. But I turn from my own grievances to consider the immense affair which once shaded the sweet face of my grandmother at eighteen, and which  maintained its dignity under the euphonious title of "poke-bonnet."    ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      219 Imagine, for a moment, a bevy of Saratolga belles wearing poke-bonnets! IIow nmany times have I reverlently takenl this quaint old bolllet ldowni from its nook in the closet, and bruslhing away the dust, viewed it with melancholy reflection! It is made of the finest Leghorn, with a brim a foot wide, shaped so as to expand scuttle-fasliont over the face. This brim is backed by a crowin whllich rises almost to a peal, and is surmounted w ith a bunch of faded flowers. Upon the side of this odd-looking crown there still hangs a bunlch of rumpled ribbons of the palest blule. Ah, those faded flowers! How eloquently do they speak of beauty perished loig ago!   Of bright eyes which once glanced out from this queer old bonnet, and of clustering curls which strayed beneath it. And then the tattered ribbons, with just enougl of blue left in their sillen shreds to suggest tlh heaven of youth and love, of, hope and joy, which once made sunshine ii an earthly home, but which have passed long since into that su1mmer land, where the flowers never fade, and the sky is always blue. There is a world of sweet memories, of quaint old fancies, and Ppoetic dreams, clusterinlg around this relic of the past. No doubt this poke-bolnet,     220    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  which would now awaken the risibilities of any  modern belle, was in its day considered to be a marvel of loveliness, and its wearer may have made her appearance at church in the new bonnet with some trepidation of soul, and a feeling that she was making too great a display of finery for the holy place. But the bonnet was certainly able to conceal her emlbarrassment, and must have inlterposed a fornidcl- able obstacle to the ardent glances of admiring  swains. Besides, it was a great preservative to the con- plexion, and veils and parasols could not have been the essentials to a lady's toilette in the olden time which they now are. One poke-bonnet is funny enough to contemplate, but imagine a whole congregation of poke-bonnets! Iow it steals awav from the romance of the olden love-tales, when we imagine the belles and beaux who figured in them attired in the quaint costumes of the last century. Think of Burns wooing his Iighlland Mary with her sweet face hidden in a poke-bonnet! I'm sitting on the stile, Mary," was well enough for a man to sing, but how coulld le expect his inamorata to cross that stile to sit beside him, arrayed in all the fasci-   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      221 nation of her best bonnet, without incurring1 the im- minent risk of falling and breaking her ple ctty neck? As well lmight my mother have expected me in my early days to clamlber over fences and up trees with a sun-bonnet flapping in my eyes, without ttear- ng my dless, or bringing everlasting woe to my bc- ruffled aprons. Probably I was not expected to emulate my brother Fred in his various hazardous feats, such as climbing trees, perching upon the topmost peak of the barn-roof, or walking upon the brink of the house-top, with nothing between himln and heaven, except a fair chance of his suddenly quit- ting this mundane sphere. But I followed as closely in his footsteps as it was possible to do, and wherever I failed of success, or met with some mishap, the blame miight all have been laid upon that officious bonnet. Another specimen of curious millinery device of much later date than that in which the poke-bonnet reigned supreme, is still hoarded up among my treasures of antiquity. This is a brown silk calash, which-was the pride of my mother's heart at eighteen. This buggy-top arrangement is over a foot in heitght; the silk is     222    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. puffed over curved reeds; the front is finished with a double box-plaitilng of ribbon, and a large ribbon bow is placed in the centre of the back. Tlhe whole affair reselmbles the top of an old-fashioned chaise, and it is drawn down over the face with a narrow ribbon attached, just as the carriage-top projects over toward the dashboard. WXomen who wore these bonnets must have ap- peared exceedingly tall, since they sometimes added to the height of the calash, by placing a towering bou- quet of flowers upon the extreme top of the crown. A tall woman in a calash must have been a more fruitful source of terror to the sterner sex than any modern advocate of woman's rights arrayed in all the bewitching paraphernalia of panier, chignon, high- heeled shoes, parasol, gloves, fan, to say nothing of the jaunty little hat of the period, could possibly be. But the poke-bonnet, the forbidding calash, and even the huge sun-bonnet which cast its lengthened shadow over my childish days, are happily all num- bered among the things that were. I can even wear Fred's hat now, or one so like it in form and color that there is but little difference, without exciting the least remark. But, alas! there is still the bitter drop left in the cup, for in the stately promenade on the avenue, or down Broad-   ALL ABOUT BONNETS.      223 way, there are no grand old trees full of happy birds, twittering their love-solgs in a manller which used to say, "Come up and be one of us!" to me. And there are no high fences in the city crossing  one's path with a defiant air, as if daring one, to pass them. Besides, I am afraid that I have lost my relish for such things; that the somDre air of the town has tamed the squirrel-like propensities of earlier years, which were at once the terror of my mother, ad the delight of mischievous brother Fred. And as I look into the faces of the little girls of the present day, I can discover no longing for the adventures and exploits which delighted my own childhood. Children who spend one part of tie year ill a crowded city, and the rest at a fashionable watering- place, live only half a child's life. In fact, there are no real children in fashionable society, but miniature men and women. Little girls who walk through the streets with a dignified air, attired as elegantly as their mammas, would be shocked at the mere idea of tearing their clothes! And little boys, who have discarded "jackets" for manly vests and coats; who wear watches, flour- ish canes, smoke cigars, and talk politics, with an in- portant air, are above all childish folly.     224    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA, Who would ever dream of these children clam- bering over fences, climbing trees, wading bare- footed through the brooks, or nmaking mlud pies ' We can well bid adieu to the bonnets of the past generation ; they were too much for us; but it would be well to keep the simple, fun-loving, old-fash- ioned children.   XXXI. A NOVEL DREAM. I HAVE just finished "Warwi-ck." And, ala's! wrapped in the fancies which, despite the critics, that fascinating novel has enveloped me, the every- day world has become tame   and excessively commonplace. Aunt Prim says that I hlave lost my senses, and Madge declares that I am bewitclhed. And really, speaking in the lTrwicwliba n sense, I have become like thlose people who, feastinCg upon the honey of Trebizond, become mad. Only last evening, when seated in my favorite corner on the drawing-room sofa, buried in the mysteries of this mysterious book, following the hero to the depths of the bottomless pit, Aunt Prim approached, mad I saluted her with "Spectre of the tombs, avaunt!" at which she looked at me, both amazed and horrified. ' That must be a curious book you are reading !" she said grimly. And I as grimly replied, 10*     226    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. "It is. " Soon after, Madge came tripping into the room, singing a favorite aria from the last new opera. That tiresome girl is always singing! And I ex- claimed, "Hush, Daughter of the Prophets, and let my soul have peace! Though thy face be lbright as the morning star, yet art thou like those apples that- grow upon the shores of the Dead c Sea, which, though beautiful to look upon, within are ashes! Though tlho excellest the womnen of Yezd in beauty, yet thy soul is frivolity itself!  "i ircabile dict!" gasped Madge, transfixed with amazement at this unexpected sally. "What have I to do, I should like to know, with the apples of the Dead Sea? and who are the women of Yezd "- Here she quite recovered her breath, and began to rattle away with such volubility about the elegant new suits worn by the Misses Butterfly, when they called in the morning, that I rushed from the drawing-room in despair, taking "Warwick " with me. I sought the quiet of mny own apartment, and, drawing an easy-chair directly in front of the large mirror, before which the gas burned brilliantly, I seated myself, and gave that young lady, my vis-d- vis in the mirror, a good talking to. "What a foolish, silly girl you are, sitting there   A NOVEL DIEAM.       227 in the mirror! I feel quite inclined to banish you from the Sparkle family altogether for your stu- pidity. Ever since you read that book, you have been looking eagerly in society for somle Co(Stsnt Eacrle-some wondrously gifted youth, wlho should unite the wisdom of the sages with the beauty of Apollo! "If you walked on Broadway, your eyes hlave been roving restlessly, in hope of seeing some pale, interest- ing youth, with a shabby coat, and a bundle under Iris arm, which bundle was supposed to contain tlhe fruits of his brain,j reserved in violet ink. But you looked in vain; for the young men who wore shabby coats were shabby themselves; and, if they carried parcels, they were most undoubtedly dry- goods, boots to be mended, or cigar-boxes. No grand poenms, or wonderful romances in those par- cels, carried by the shabby young men on Broad- way. "And you have attended matinees, concerts, tie opera, and every place where youth, beauty, and talent are wont to meet; and you have eagerly scanned every face 'in search of your ideal hero. But all in vain! You have visited art-galleries, and amid the throng of living and of pictured faces which surrounded you, you have gazed lovinlyr auld     228    SPARKLES F'ROM SARATOGA. eagerly for that one face which haunts your dreams. And still you found it not. Now, Sparkle, sitting over there in the mirror, give folly to the winds! There never was, there never will be sucll an inmmac- ulate piece of thumanity as Constant Earle. And-if you should find hil-he would be married! And then what right would you have to adore him? "Madge says Mr. Cecil is like him--but AMadge is strongly prejudiced in favor of Mr. Cecil--and not until that gentleman descends into somle bottomless pit, as did the hero of this novel, iad discovers a fortune, will I acknowledge the likeness. Even then it would be very remote. You must take men as they are, my dear. Not as they are pictured in novels. And a tiresome, stupid, bothersome, intrac- table set of mortals they are, I can assure you! And now, Sparkle, I hope this will put an end to your nonsense!  Having finishled my lecture to that young lady in the mirror, I leaned back lin my chair, and, after reading the last chapter of "Warwick," I fell asleep. And such a dream  as followed! The author of that book is responsible for it! I dreamed that I sat in an eastern grove, beneath the shade of the beautiful Amrlita, or Immortal tree; that the sonigs of myriads of nightingales' flooded the air with   A NOVEL DREAM.       229 music; and the white blossoms of the Sandal Malam made deliciously fragrant the breath of night, And, mingled with the sweet odor of these flowers, was that of the blossoms of the Nagacesara tree, whose fragrance is so intoxicating that Camadcva, the God of Love, fills his quiver with these flowers. And there came, stealing through the fragrant grove, tlhe lute-like murlmuring of Chindara's fount. Just above my head hovered that wonderful bird, the Hlna, lwhose song foretells royalty to the mi)rtlal above whose head it folds his winlgs. And lhover- ing il the tree above me, this marvellous bird poured forth a witching strain of melody, And immediately I, a wanderer from the far-off Isle of Manhattan, became a Princess of IIindostan, and fell passionately in love with the God Cishna- whom all Indian women adore! And    Crishna hmself stood in all the glolr of his beauty before me. The evening air was already laden with music, but when he spoke his voice was far sweeter than the voices of those who had eaten the leaves of tlat enchanlted tree which grows over the tomb of the great musician, Tan Sein. And then the god Crishna seated himself beside me, upon a silell couch, filled with rose-leaves gathered from  the rare roses which bloom in the Garden of the Nile--     230    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. the most beautiful in the world. Gracefully my Indian Apollo swept his fingers over a silver- tongued lute--which a slave had brouglht him--arnd then he sang', and his silnging was I ike the sound of those bells which hang from celestial trees, and which, swaying to and fro in the wind that floats from the Great White Throne, waken melody for the ears of the blessed! And thus he sang- "Nourjehan! Light of the World! Thou art lovelier than the nightingale's song, and sweeter than the blossoms in Camadeva's quiver! Thy tresses are bright as the golden-hued flowers which float upon llemasagara's waters-upon the Sea of Gold-and thine eyes are as blue as the water-lilies in the vale of Cashmere!" As I listened, enraptured, to every note, and gazed admiringly upon his handsome face-whose face should it be, but--Fitz Hugh's! Soon after I made this wonderful discovery the grove around us became filled with strange, fantastic beings, and then a troop of demons, led by the dread Silitim, aid followed by the terrible Ghoolee ieeabau, appeared, and disturbed our charming tete-d-tete. A form and face, ugly as the face and form of Hakem-ben- Haschemncdrew near me, and I started up in affright. Near by stood my faithful Arabian horse, one of that   A NOVEL DREAM.       231 famous Kochlani .breed, whose written genealogy has been kept for two thousand years, and who are said to have descended from King Solomon's steeds. I quickly mornted this beautiful horse, and strove to escape. But suddenly the terrible sound of the Kerna, the war trumpet of the Arabs, pierced my ear, and, screaming witl affright--I awoke. And there I sat in the easy-chair with "Warwick " upon my lap, and that saucy girl in the mirror laulilgig at me!     XXXII. SUNDAY AT THE SPRINGS. TIE Sabbath bells ring out as sweetly here to summon the wayward and erring to leave for a little hour their pleasure and frivolity, as in quieter places, where the hush of the sacred day lies not only uponl the people, but also upon the town. Although the throng at the hotels never seems to diminish, yet the churches are all well filled. This nmorllng the 1Rev. Dr. IIighflyer from Gothaln was announced to preach, and crowds of people went to hear him. You reemelber that his church is one of those magnificent edifices far up on Fifth Avenue. The sermon of this morning was pronounced to be a delightful one. It was none of those -dreadful alarums which the sentries of the pulpit sometimes sound forth; but it was rather a discourse upon the ancient Romans-the wicked Jews-the Pharaohs and the Herods of the olden time, and, as nothing was mentioned of the Pharaohs and Herods of our time, the entire congregation listened complacently, and old Father Mildew, who occupied a front seat,   SUNDAY AT THE SPRINGS.     233 nodded his head approvingly at varions points of the discourse. The reverend doctor's style is one of the most etDe- real imaginable. If lie enters the dilm land of the past in quest of characters to elucidate his ltheie, ie presents us with shadowy, pale-faced spectres instead of real flesh and blood realities-and as for grap- pling with the giants of evil which stalk in our very midst at the present day, he would never think of that! If he does condescend sometimes to bring his illustrations to bear upon practical, everyday life, they are still so cloud-like, so intangible, that the modern sinner may pass through the ordeal quite unscathed. The doctor himself is also quite ethereal, in fact, ispiituel, to look upon. IIis face is pale, probally from long studying; his eyes are large and dark, and luminous with the fire of the spirit wh ich burns within; his hands are white and delicate as a woman's. If he has not been taught by nature to use those hands to the best advantage, then, I should surely say, that Dame Vanity has given him ample instruction on that point. The Widow Dash 11as not a single art of coquetry more perfectly at her command, than has the Rev. Dr. Iighfiyer the art     234     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. of displaying those small white hands to perfection. lie wears the black silk gown with a regal air, and as for the rest of his attire, it is simply immaculate. When. he turns his dark eyes upward, then sud- denly flashes them, filled with tears, upon the au- dience, while the tones of his rich voice ring forth, the sympathetic effect i instantaneous, and many bright eyes are seen to glisten. But those tears are not shed over the miseries and the follies of the present-no, no! they fall upon the grave of the. irrevocable past. When the fate of Ananias and Sapphira is told, old Father Mildew listens, but trembles not! The sin of covetoeseness and deceit is pictured as belonging so peculiarly to those ill- fated creatures, and they lived so very long ago, that Father Mildew never thinks of talcing the lcs- son Aomne! When the words, Thou shalt not steal," sound from Holy Writ, Mr. Bullion, who deals in gold  and in stocks, and who is, perhaps, the wealthiest member of the reverend doctor's church, listens, as a matter of course ; but he never dreams that those words apply to him! What if he chances to learn that a certain stock is to be "' corneled,9' and, taking advantage of his neighbor's ignorance of that fact, buys all of that stock which-his neighbor holds?   SUNDAY AT THE SPRINGS.     235 Or0 what if he himself helps to "corner" that stock, knowing that thousands must lose, although a few will be rich gainers? Iis conscience never twits him of robi3ng his neighbor. "Thou shalt not lie" does not trouble Mrs. Proudie's conscience at all, notwithstanding that she never hesitates to say "not at omne " to a dis- agreeable visitor, or to overwhelm with flattery some one whom she inwardly detests!"Thou shalt not covet" doesn't keep Mrs. AMacFlimsey from gazing longingly at her neighbor's new India shawl, durilg all the service; nor her daughter Flora from having a strong desire to annihilate my eyes on account of Fitz Hugh! In the pew directly in front of is, sat Deacon Sombre and his family. When the sil- ver plate goes round, the deacon always gives lib- erally. And the deacon's wife also has a reputatioll for generosity of character. She has beel so very kind, especially to the minister. Slle it was who pr1esented him with the elegant neg-iyge and the elnbrolidered slippers, which he wears of a morningll ill his study; she it was who presented those beau- tiful pieces of velvet, embroidered withl gold, which hang from the Bible and prayer-book. Anld that superb altar-cloth was also her gift. All! who, in all that great congregation, is so very, very liberal     236     SPARKLES F]ROM SARATOGA. as Mrs. Deacon Sombre? And yet-there lives a poor relative in the deacon's family, who occupies a dreary little room in the top of their elepgant mansion, and who slaves there, alole and ill sadness, from morning till night, preparing the finery of the deacon's fashionable daughters! If " charity be- gins at home," there are, alas! too many exceptions to the rule! Just opposite Deacon Sombre's pew, in Dr. Highflyer's own church in Gotham, is that of Papa Goldbug.  They are new-comers to this fashionable church. As they have risen in the scale of fashion, they have also risen from the plain little sanctuary in the lower part of the city, which they frequented in former years. They find themselves here in an altogether new atmosphere. Papa Gold- bug hardly feels himself at home as yet. He gazes admiringly around the spacious edifice, while his fussy, pretentious little wife is busily engaged in scanning the latest novelties in cloaks or bonnets from Paris, and the endless variety of costumes dis- played by the belles of Upper-tendom. The little Goldbug, their daughter, criticises the dresses, the minister, the music, and is almost as much inter- ested as though she were listening to a new play or an opera. The music, of course, is of the highest order, since the quartet is formed by singers from   SUNDAY AT THE SPRINGS.    237 the Italian Opera. Services sometimes commence with a prelude upon the grand organ, arranged frolm "Faust," and end with the shadow aria from "Dinorah" t Madge says that if " it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter heaven," she would like to know how the Rev. Dr. Highflyer, with his congregation, is ever to reach that place. But Madge is such a queer girl!     XXXIIII. A DUEL. THEE, are some things which we had really sup- posed to have become obsolete-customs and cos- tumes which are only worthy of being broughlt up to be wondered at, and shrink back into their for- gotten corners with a thank Heaven! that they have departed in peace. We'refer just now to the duel-for who ever hears of a duel nowadays? We had thought that duels belonged to those "good old times " to which elderly people are so fond of referring--those days when men and women were wrapped up in saintly perfection, and knew nothing of the vices of this " diegenerate age."- We had fondly cherished the idea that the duel went out with the sword which once belonged to the dress suit of a gentleman in the olden time--with the velvet knee-breeches, the gold buckles, and powdered perukes. IEeally, we are surpiised that any young person   A DUEL.         239 of modern ideas can be so extremely old-fashioned as to thirst for a duel. 3But there is no accounting for the whilsieal caprices of men-to say nothing of women-and therefore Saratoga is blessed with a new sensation -entirely new, and quite absurd enough to make the fashionable world hold its breath for a moment and lift up its hands il holy horror. The rumor has flowl froim mouth to mouth--has even crept into the newspapers, to fill up ald, celicven the reporter's column-that a duel between two dis- tingulished young gentlemen here is on the tapis.  A fiery young Colonel from the impetuous South is reported to have challenged to mortal combat a quiet, " inoffensive citizen" of the North. Now, this challenge from the hot-headed South- ernler might possibly be a source of extreme surprise to the young man of the Nkorth, since Ae lknow very little or nothing of duels here. A genuine " free fight," gotten up on the spur of the moment, might be understood; but, since the day that Aaron Burr shot Alexander Iamiltonl in cold blood, the duel has not been excessively popll- lar with us-in fact, it has utterly lost prestige. We may be lackilng the proper spirit for undcr- standing the best moducs operazndi of settling a quar- '(     240    SPARKLES FROM: SARATOGA. tel and resenting an affront; but, after all, ,we cannot help thinking that it is a most comfortable state of affairs when a man has courage enough to pass by an insult or to rise above an injury, without the aid of a sword or of a revolver. We really cannot see, despite the sneers at our cowardice by the ardent Southerner, that the duel is absolutely essential to our happiness, or to our credit. The late tournament, which was intended to re- vive the ancient spirit of chivalry in the manly hearts of those who have of late been given more to the displaying of diamond studs and marvellous pins than anything else, has giveun rise to the ru- mored duel. The tournament was intended to be a friendly competition in horsemanship between the young men of the North and of the South, and was pro- jected by, and carried out under the supervision of a young Southerner who is a Colonel in the army. After the tournament there came to the gallant Colonel's ears a contemptuous remark made by a wealthy young gentleman, who floats upon the cream of fashionable society, to the effect that the brave "Knights" from  the South were only "country   A DUEL.         241 bumpkins" instead of belonging to the F. F. V.'s, and that the tournament was nothing but a " two- penny show." Now, such a statement as this was terrible indeed, and angered the high-spirited Colonel to the last degree. Of course thhere is no better way to resent such iian affront than to make a target of one's self for aln- other person's bullet, or to make a target of that im- pertinent individual. Please to observe now, that the very latest fashion in targets, is a couple of high-toned, chivalric yn}:- gentlemenl, who wish to die that their wounded holor may be avenged. In settling the dispute in question, it might perhaps have been easy enough to refute the slander as to the respectability of the aforesaid "Knights," as many of them are well known to belong to good families; and, as for the " two-penny show," the tickets were something like five dollars for the tournament and ball, and moreover the young man who affected to despise the "show " drove out with his four-in-hand to witness it. But no, there was no other way to blot out tlhis horrible stain upon the Colonel's reputation than by mortal combat; no way of overcoming little difficul- "     242    SPARKLES FROM3 SARATOGA. ties which mighlt arise between these proud young bloods than by dropping them with a bullet. The strangest part of it all is that the Colonel's father thinks the Colonel should fight it out; the Colonel's sister refuses to read any more novels, to perpetrate aly more flirtations, in fact, to console herself in any way, until the Colonel sustains the reputation of his family by properly resenting tlis insult in a duel; and lastly, the Colonel's mother hopes that her son has enough of good Southern blood in him to teach these snobbish Northerners how to behave. And so we have, by the force of circumstances, been driven seriously to think of the duel, not only as a fine art, but as a useful and respectable calling. Of course our deliberations have ended with the conclusion that no one should be allowed to insult us with impunity! Honor is more than life ; and it is not material whether a life is lost or not, in settling a petty war of words.. So that one's honor is fully vindicated, one may go to sleep with a bullet through the heart with a vast deal of satisfaction. We are all of such individual importance that to resent a real or fancied affront, we can easily afford to give up our lives and call quits with the world.   A DUEL.         243 And then there is so little for some people to do in this life ; so little life work to be performed, tlhat they can just as well as not step out at a mnomelnt's notice without ever being missed. And we know of no quicker method of exit, lnone more especially adapted to sucht individuals, than the duel. And it is pleasant to reflect upon the charmillg state of mind which must follow'the sUrvieo of a fatal duel ; the pleasing recollections of that spirited( occasion which will help to console his lonely hou1rs. To carry the stain of a brother's b1lood upon onIC's soul through life must be such a comfortable sensa- tion! But the duel of which we speak has-not yet taken place. If the event is really contemplated, it might be just as well for the disputing parties to select Glen Mitchell, or some other quiet, romantic spot, and admit the public to this "two-penny show " at so much a head, the proceeds to be devoted to paying the passage of the survivor to some country where duelling is more popular than here, and where lihe may wipe out every stain from his escutcheon with the point of his sword. But this subject frightens me  ,     244    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. I lay down my pencil to consider what will be the consequences of being sarcastic upon the Colonel and his friend (?)-and whether I myself am lnot in- curring the imminent danger of a challenge. Caln it be possible that I shall be obliged to settle my feathers and flounces and prepare for a duel? Or, will it not be better to look out for some modern Bayard sansapwr et sc8as reprocle, who will take up his trusty sword in my defence? Beats there a heart so brave beneath the ilmmacu- late plaits and diamond studs of the knights of Saratoga? I set forth in my Quixotic search.       XXXIV. AMONG THE LILIES. WE often spend whole days in the vieinity of Saratoga Lake, glad for a little while to escape the hum of fashionable life. And what place could De found more charning than the banlks of this beaiti- ful lake in the fervid month of August? Sitting upon the shore and watching the play of the sunbeams with the blue waves, drleaming delightful day-dreams, with roguish, mischief-loving tadge upon one side, and Fitz Hugh upon the other, what more could a thankless mortal desire? What matter if the dizzy whirl of hops and balls does not reach us here; if no bevies of butterily- belles distract us with their chattering, and no invinc- ible array of beaux challenges our admiration, and disconcert us with their eye-glases; and we are not compelled to malk elaborate toilettes, and to lavish our deepest thoughts uponl ribbons and ruffles? What matter if we are denied, or have escaped all this? We are truly enjoying a blessed quiet in the most unsophisticated manner in the world.     246     SPARKLES FROMT SARATOGA. Under the trees, amid the sweet haunts of nature, where the birds sing; where every breath of the sumner breeze comes to us laden with the perfiume of a thousand flowers ; where the wind floats music- ally amoung the leaves-the leaves which1 are Nature's Aolian  harps ever  breathing forth melody; where the waters ripple in the sunlight, and sing of the far-off sea as they break in little waves upon the shore; where one may listen all day long and never hear a discordant sound--ah! to one who is weary of the noise and jar of the city, "If there be an Elysium on earth It is this, it is this!" The cool mountain   breezes which ripple the smooth surface of the lake seem to instil a new vigor into sluggish veins, and to promise a new lease of life to those who have grown weary and faint by the wayside. The principal amusement for boating   parties upon the lake is fishing. The water is exceedingly clear and the fish the most accommodating little creatures that ever wore fins; they really appear fond of being caught on a hook. Oh! if I were some little fish And lived in a clear little brook, I vow by my eye, when you went by, I'd fasten myself on your hook!   AMONG TIIE LILIES.      247 That's what Madge sings when she goes a-fishing, and Madge is an adept in throwing out allurihng bait both under the water and above it! Foolish fishes, or susceptible youths-it; does not matter which-Madge always has " a catch" on the end of her line. The shining meshes of her purplish black hair are more dangerous thani any net that was ever thrown into the sea, and the soft glances of her brown eyes strike deeper than any hook or spear. Madge makes a charminig picture when boating amlong the water-lilies upon the Lake. She looks the mortal embodiment of the fragrant flowers themselves as she floats among them. They nestle in her luxuriant hair; they rest lovingly upon her bosom, and, lying iIl her lap in profusion, they caress her white fingers as if with mute joy, as she groups themn altistically and tenderly together. And while they thus surround her with a halo of perfume, Madge declares that they are whispering their passion for her, and if they droop or die, she says that they die of sweet love. Fiitz Hugh is not fond of fishing, and says that he cannot see why the cruel philosopher who spent the best part of his time iln murdering the innocents of     248    FSPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. the deep, should be spoklen of as the "good old Isaac Walton!  I quite agree with Fitz Hiugh, in this point at least, and feel quite proud of his compassionate nature. But Aunt Prim sniffs her nose scornfully in the air at all such nonsense, says that fishes don't feel, twitches them mercilessly off from the barbar- ous hook, and when they writhe and flop about, she avers it is nothing but nervousness and timidity at being in a strange place!  Will any disciple of the humane Mr. Bergh ever espouse the cause of the poor, abused fishes? A young medical student, who formed one of our fishing party yesterday, quite agreed with Aunt Prim's notions in regard to the finny tribe, and pro- nounted the lively motions of the fish upon the  hook to be nothing but ' spasmodic action of the nerves!"He said they were cold-blooded creat- ures, and therefore not capable of much sufferinlg, and added a good deal more scientific twaddle of the same kind. That man is as cold-blooded as any fish that ever swaln  Madge and I knew very well what this disciple of Esculapius was aiming at in thus trying to ingra- t   AMONG THE LILIES.      249 tiate himself with Aunt Prim, and snubbing Fitz Hugh's opinions. What his chances of success were miglht be augured from the odd faces Madge perpetrated be- hind his back, as she dissected his heart with a fish-hook, by proxy, upon the green leaf of a lily!  If the Lake is charming by caylighlt, what shall be said of it when haloed by the wondrous beauty of a summer's night? There are but two ogres here which disturb our peace, and these are the night air and the eveningl dew. Not that Madge and I ever trouble our heads with;I such trifling matters, but Aunt Prim is in a con- tinual worry about the state of her health, and as soon as the sun goes down she infects us all with an uncomfortable chilliness. No wonder that we try to escape sometimes, as we did last evening when we had a starlight row upon the lake. It was an amusing picture to see Aunt Prim as she waved us an adieu from the shore, wrapped inl innumerable shawls, and shivering beneath thoe mild influence of a few drops of dew. You would have thought from her oft-expressed fears that we were about to depart with Captain "*     250    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Iall in search of the North Pole, instead of sailing away over a beautiful lake, upon whose glassy sur- face there was scarcely a ripple. Aunt Prim retired to seek the shelter of the hotel parlor, and to deplore the waywardness of youmng people who ref used to look upon things through her spectacles, and would go romancing over the lake,  despite the terrible " night air " and the dewr  But, leaving Aunt Prim and gloomy care upon the shore, we yielded ourselves to all the witchery of the beautiful night. Madge was in the merriest mood, and kept our faces rippling over with smiles at her lively sallies. The medical student, who sat beside her, was deeply inclined to the sentimental, looked mourn-  : fully up to the stars, drew deep sighs, and stole.  long, lingering glances at Cousin Madge, who was oblivious to nothing--except his devotion. Fitz Tlugh was just as he always is, and always  should be; that is, sufficiently engrossed with the sublime consciousness of his own perfections to prevent him from ever losing his own identity in that of another, or from becoming so sweetly obliv- ious of himself as did the medical student, who nearly capsized the boat and bespattered himself plen- tifully while admiring Madge's shadow in the lake t    AMONG TIIE LILIES.      251 There was a dash of cold water upon yoIuthfl ardor! This little incident, of course, added ilnlnenscly to the mirth of the party-.tHe stldelt, per Iaps, excepted. As we glided over the water every star in the heavens glittered brightly above us. Directly ill tle zenith Lyra blazed and burned witl a sweet, 111s- tecal meaning. The radiant Cross flashed its ricl jewels oif st:'r 1from out the myriads of worlcls whch formi tlhe milky way, and the bright NortIhern Crown, Coro, a Borealis, the loveliest colnstellationl in all tlhe heavens, looked down upon ,s. Who has not listened to hear the msic of tih spheres? Whlo that has lingered lost in the coltenl- plation of the starry heavens, has not fancied that he saw the swift flight of the inmmortals fron, wo'ld to world, and heard strains of unearthly music, of divine, mysterious melody? But our party upon the lake was too fill of nmirt  to dwell lpol these tlhings, anld they sanlg among tlhemselves merry little ditties whllicll float:ed softl? over the water, ald barcarolles to woo tlhe water-nymlplis to rise andc listen. But the water-nymphs were evidently slunbelriimg     252    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. down beneath the waves, with the lilies, and re- fused to appear. And thus floated by us another day, breaking upon the dim shores of the past with a musical murmur, like that of the waves which plashed and glittered in the moonlight as we touched again the shore.   XXXV. THE FLUSH OF THE LEAF. THE gay season of Saratoga is almost over. Adieux lightly spoken, good-byes softly whispered, and kisses of farewell are as plentiful as autumn leaves. Tear-drops, and heartaches, sometimes mingle with them, and there is a little dash of sadness thrown over the sweetness of life, just as the passing cloud sprinkles rain-drops on the roses. Every dream must have its awakening, and the long, beautiful summer dream is over. The sun has lost its fervid heat, for its beams are veiled in the floating mists of autumn. The flowers have nearly all gone; the flitting summer has beckoned them away, and those few blossoms which still linger to catch the warm, rich hues of autumn will follow soon. The birds are singing their farewell songs to the whispering green leaves, which grow pale and yel- low as they listen-or blush into crimson before the ,; -fervidness of song. i,     254     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Even the winds have a plaintive sond--like the voice of one who hlas just bidden farewell to the best-beloved--for the winds have passed the beauti- ful summer as she journeys southward. The fashionable world, which has mnade the life of Saratoga for so many delightful weeks, fickle as ever, deserts the scenes which it professed to hold so dear, and is flitting homeward. Every mnorning we miss sonme familiar face, some sparkling eye and merry voice, from the piazza; and every evening the parlors and ballrooms are less crowded.  There remains now only a memory where some beautiful reality has lived and breathed. The dark-eyed belles of the sunny South, the piquant, bewitching maidens from the land which glows beneath the setting sun, the staid daughters from New England homes, and the stylish, fashion- able beauties of Gotham, who have gathered here like so many butterflies in quest of roses, who have each striven to eclipse all others by their wondrous toilets and their bewildering charms-all these have furled their defiant little flags, packed their trunks reluctantly, whispered sad farewells to their de- spondent admirers, and departed to prepare for the winter's campaign.   THE FLUISH OF TIIE LEAF.    255 The beautiful dresses which have rustled luxuri- ously throulgh the parlors and on the piazza are nlow ignominiously elltomlbed ill crowded trunks; and the jewels which flashed their liquid light benlcath the brilliant chaldeliers, elnhancing the beauty of their wearers and dazzling the eyes of beholders, are consigned to blazing unseen within their dark caskets, to emerge gloriously when some fittilng oc- casion shall offer, but no more to illumine the haunts of Saratoga. The powder-boxes, rouge-pots, extra puffs, curls and frizzes-which are scarcely available while travelling-arare cefully stored away in the darkest corners, enveloped in many wrappings and shrouded in dreadful mystery. Did you ever meet and converse with a lady whom, at first glance, you supposed to be young and, perhaps, beautiful; but who, as you scanned her closely, seemed to grow suddenly older, five years older every minute that you talked witl her, until, if you were able to continue your conversation with a growing horror, for one half :hour, you felt that you stood before a woman old Celough to )be Methuselah's grandmother? Did you notice that her strange accent while talking was caused by the "plumpers ' which she wore in her mouth to fll out her sunken cheeks? ; ;I -t                   .     256    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Did you mark that her eyebrows were false? that she could not call one hair of her elaborate chignon her own? that her face was enamelled and painted to the last degree? that her wrinkled neck and meagre shoulders were eoncealed beneath a false throat and bust of sunny whiteness and fault-  less proportions, and that the place where this art- ful contrivance was fastened was skilfully hidden by a diamond necklace? Did you observe that her elegant dress, which fitted superbly, displaying ap- parently " a form Praxiteles might worship," was so fashioned by the cunning hand of the French mzodiste as to present the sylph-like figure of sixteen rather than that of an octogenarian . If you have, seen and noticed all this, you will have some true conception of the dreadful secrets which some of those Saratoga trunks convey from place to place. Their worn and ghastly owner fol- lows them anxiously, like a spectre in search of its substance; and I tremble to think of the frightful consequences which would ensle should that baggage be lost! A curious incident of this kind actually occurred a week or two since in Saratoga. A lady, whose age is known to few, and is to be queried at, or hinted at, by none-chose to leave the hotel where she was stopping, for the one across    THE FLUSH OF THE LEAF.     257 the street. Early in the morning, before the fash- ionable world of Saratoga was astir, closely veiled and wrapped in a shawl, she quietly entered the new hotel and took possession of her rooms. 1er trunks were to follow immnediately. But by some strange mischance-some unlucky blunder' of the porters-the trunks were not sent to her roolms, but were carried to the remote end of the village to a private boarding-house. One solitary, immense vehicle of dry-goods was placed in her apartment, but alas! it did not beloln to her. She looked at its iron bands and firm lock in dismay. It was the depository of some other feminine capital in society (a lady's wardrobe is her capitaD and not her own. What was she to do   In any leergeency it would be impossible foir her to loosen the fastellillgs of that strainge trunk--and knowing well what her own trunks contained, she contemplated this un- known visitant with a sort of nervous horror-as one trembles before a hidden mystery. In a sepulchral tone of voice she ordered the porter to remove that trunk, and to bring her own. The trunk vanished, but the clay wore on, and the lady's trunks failed to make their appearance.     258    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. The dinner-hour drew near; it was impossible for the lady to leave her room until the requisite articles of her wardrobe arrived.  There was frantic ringing of the bell of No. -; there was hurryilg to and fro of sable waiters; there was angry consultation with stupid porters; but, alas! all was of no avail. The lady paced the floor of the room in a state of desperation ; she looked out from her window, and then she beleld a sight which froze the little life-blood which was flowing slowly through her veins. There was the Widow Dash, eleoantly attired, sitting comfortably on the piazza, laughing and chatting with this lady's last adorer. At least she had fancied him to be an adorer, and this very day she had intended to complete her con- quest. But who would be able to lure him from the toils of the Widow Dash if she once wove her fasciiiations around him? W1ho, indeed? This was the climax'to her troubles! The band was playing its most melodious strains, but music had  no charms for her. There sat that odious Widow Dash, beautiful as a full-blown rose, with her own    i Captain Fickle gazing admiringly upon her. She      1 turned away from the window in a state bordering     r upon despair. She threw herself upon her bed; re-     j   THE FLUSH OF TIIE LEAF.    259 solved to sleep away the hours which should inter vene before the arrival of those trunks. "If thou would'st ease thine heart Of love and all its smart, Then sleep, dear, sleep! "If thou woull'st cure thine heart Of love and all its smart, Then die, dear, die!" But this widow--there, the secret is out!-- his widow resolved not to die, but to live, and to revenge herself gloriously upon that artful Widow Dash, when those trunks should arrive. Time passed on, and the widow slept, dreaming, however, troubled dreams. The band ceased playing; the people strolled to the various springs to drink the Wvaters with the charm of evelltide upon them; the sun welnt down behind the hills; the stars came out and glittered in the sky; the gas-lamps, which seemed to glow vith a brighter lustre than that of the stars, were all allaze--and when the persecuted widow finally awoke from her troubled dreanl, to commence a new series of bell-ringings, and to gaze dolefully from her window, she was just in time to see the ball- room brilliantly illuminated, the fairy bridge which )ined it to the hotel gayly lighted with fantastic     260    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Chinese lanterns, and over this bridge the Widow  Dash vent into the hop, leaning upon the arm of Captain Fickle! And she. saw. them! I will not attempt to describe the long, dreary hours'of that night, passed dismally alone in thle room of a hotel, while the gay crowds without were enjoying themselves in various ways. It would be too harrowing to my own feelings and to those of my readers; but let it suffice to say, that morning at last dawned upon this terrible night, t/iose trmim1, arrived, and about 11 'clock in the morning there emerged from the room no wrinkled old wolmaln, but a comely, elegantly dressed lady, somewhere be- tween the age of twenty and forty-not older- whose face was wreathed with smiles, whose man- ner was as placid and as sunny as a June morningll, and who was secretly determined to annihilate the Widow Dash!   XXXVI. "DEPARTURES. WHAT a mercy it would be if the people who leave Saratoga early in the imorning would only "Fold their tents like the Arabs, And as quictly steal away!" But no-such a bustle and confusion as there is in the adjoining rooms and in the hall every morninlg, at the untimely hoiur of six, just when one is lost in delightful morning dreams--the dreams which poets call prophetic. I How vexatious to be rudely suml- moned frotr the shadowy land of dreams, to the disagreeable realities of great lumbering trunls, of crying children, of loud-voiced papas, and fretful, anxious mammas, until really one would imagine that the Millerites' judgment had come, and that the whole earth was on fire! And all this because these people are leavincg on the next train! If they only could possibly remember that other folks in the same house were not going atway, and     262    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  were endeavoring to enjoy a comfortable nap after the late hours of the ball the night before, how pleas- ant it would be. Departures, not arrivals, are now the prominent features of Saratoga-- "' Friend after friend departs "- and we, too, shall soon be winging our flight home- ward. The fates have decided, and we must go. Fitz Ihugh resigns himself beautifully, and strokes his blonde moustache complacently, as he talks of re- turning to business. Now, that amuses me-the idea of Fitz Hugh, and business! What does he do with his lavender kids and his / elegant cane, when he attends to business? Who takes care of that "love of a moustache," curls it, etc.? Who is to part those bewitching locks  exactly in the middle, when Fitz Hugh is engrossed  in the cares of business? And where is he to find two hours every morning to spend in selecting a becoming cravat and arrang- ing it in that inimitable tie, if he attends to bus-  iness?            .           I'  ] :Ah, Fitz Hlugh! Fitz ITugh! who could conceive   rh!   DEIPARTUTRES.       203 the idea of transforming such an elegant youth into a hum-drum manl of businesss? We might have started to-day, but Aunt Prim declares she must have time to calln her nerves after the last new railroad horror before she will venture to set out. Notwithstanding the vast improvements of the age, travelling seems to become more hazardous every year. And one is led to believe tlhat the old- fashioned tage-coach which plodded slowly alonol, is to be preferred to these new vehicles of dclestruc- tion, which hurry people out of this world into the next without a moment's warning. Mr. and Mrs. Puffy left this morning, and Sara- toga misses their rotund forns and faces beaming with smiles. Tlhese worthy people returned not long since from a toul in Europe, and Mrs. PIuffy is full of aLnmsinr accounts of her mishaps and adlventures abroad, and considers that she has every reason to be thanlkful lhat she has)arrived safe and sound upon her native shore. During her stay at the Springs she has entertained t host of her dear friends every morning upon the piazza, with ludicrous descriptions of her trials and nfferings abroad, and one might be ready to look j     264:    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGrxA. upon her as a victim to martyrdom, did not her comfortable proportions forbid. Mrs. Puffy has brougllht home with her many arti- cles of 'vevut, whichl she evidently considers as  dearly won trophies. These she is wont to mention ill some such manner as this: My dear, you know I have purchased a beauti- ful Velns. It is now on its way from Italy. I long for you to see it. It's a lovely thing but whethtler it is a iiadonlzna oi' a JMfa6gdalen7 IZ cannot Of course we are all on. the gqui ice to behold this wonderful statue. Also to admirel the " sta- tionery: which Mrs. Puffy said she purchased " to put in the nicks of the walls! And Mrs. Puffy uttered her final adieu with a cordial "Now, do jump down and see us!" as the train whirled her good-natured face out of sight. The Widow Dash has disappeared in a blaze of glory, leaving behind her an endless train of dis- consolate admirers. Every one of her magnificent dresses has been worn once, and, therefore, it was time to shift the scene, and to appear upon a new stage. And so the fair widow, with her pet dogs, her parrot, her maid, her coachman, footman, and elegant equipages, to say nothing of trunks   DEIPARTU RES.       2 (;5 valises, and lbandblJoxes without number, has depart- ed.  She has taken her farwell of Saratoga, to burst with all her beauty, and magnificence, upon the astonished eyes of some other sphere in upper- tendom. Our best wisles follow her! But it is really to be hoped, that, for the benefit of all poor, timid, unmarried damsels, the Widow Dash will be wedded before next season! We had a delightful ride to-day to the lake. While Madge and the Colonel Twere making a hideous racket rolling nine-pins, Fitz Hugh and I went boating over the water in search of the white lilies. We had a charming row. It was rather rough, it is true, and the waves caine- spat- tering over the edges of the boat, every cw and. then-and the wind blew sulch a gale thlat it took the frizz all out of my hair, and then the bottom of the boat was wet, and I had on thin shoes; anld, besides, Fitz Hugh doesn't exactly understand tlhe management of a pair of oars, and I was several times inclined to "paddle my own canoe."  Still, we had a charming, time, and arrived at last in safety at the foot of a romantic mound, which has the unromanutic name of Snake Hill. As soon as we heard the title of this elevated piece of verdure,     266     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. we had instantaneous visions of creeping things, and paddled away togather lilies elsewhere. When we returned, after a long ramble through the shady groves which border the lake, we found Miss Madge and the Colonel sitting quiet enough onI the bank of a trout pond, fishing for trout. A pretty pair of anglers they were-as if any one with both eyes open could fail to see that the two were hooking for hearts! Notwithstanding that the close of the' fashionable season is so near, Saratoga was never more delight- ful than now. The weather is charming-perfectly enjoyable for either driving or walkinlg; the roads are free from dust, and there is a softness in the sky which foretells the coming of the autumn. Here and there a single leaf may be seen tinted with Autumn's gold, or just flushing into crimson. And there is a little haze over the hills in the norning, through which the rising sun kisses the earth as through a' veil. It is strange that the changing of the leaf should send people away in throngs just when Nature is about to don her love- liest attire, and when the charm of wood and plain,    1 of placid lakes and running streams, of mountains     j wrapt in mist, and hills clothed with ever-varying     ( verdure, lies sweetest on the earth. At no season of ^. q'   DEPARTUrES.        267 the year are the drives around Saratoga so truly en- joyable as now. The fervid glare of the sun 1,s, given place to a kindliel glow which bathes the whole country in a flood of golden light, enhllancing ,the clear blue of the sky, throwing over the distalt hills a blue ethereal mist, and shedding a tranquil air over the valleys and plains. To one who is weary of the bustle and hum of life at the crowded hotels, a pleasant change may be easily found by a drive out into the open country, over the pleasant roads which extend in every direction from tlhe town. One of these, which leads out to a small village, at a distance of six miles, is a favorite drive. It winds along between bits of dark forests, richly cultivated fields, and large gardens filled with flowers, and all the way are scattered pleasant rural homes, some of them  evincilg both wealth and taste, while many more are the humllble homes of unpretending inmates. But no matter how small or mean these simple dwellings are, they are all so tidily kept, and have such a neat and home-like air that one feels as though it would be a pleasure to bid adieu for a little time to the giddy whirl of fashion at the hotels, and enjoy the peace and quiet of a countrylife. The doors and windows of these cottages are     268     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. almost always open, and little pots, filled with scarlet geraniums, or other bright-hued plants, staind upon the low window-sills or near the threshold, while over the simple porch clambers the sweet honeysuckle or the modest morning-glory. And then the bits of green lawn spreading before the houses are so smooth and clean, the shady spots under the old fruit-trees are so inviting, that one feels almost sick at heart when remembering the  foolish frivolity of life down there in the village where the strife for display goes ceaselessly on- where every day is an endless round of excitemenlt, and every night a whirl of dissipation. The belle of the ball-room at Saratoga might take a profitable stroll among these little homes, and learn from her modest sister the charm of an Uin-  affected life. The Saratoga wriggle, the Droop, the "Kangaroo Hop" never flourished out here among . the flowers. These rural maidens have too nmuch to do, to go about listlessly,' with their halnds hang- ing distractedly from their wrists; and, as for powder-boxes, paint-pots, rats and mice for the hair, switches, false braids and curls, and all the endless paraphernalia esteemed necessary to make up a fashionable toilet-country girls are as innocent of all these as though they never existed. i *;   XXXVII. THE ADIRONDAOCS. EVERY new day of the coming, autumn seems to dawn with somne fresh beauty, somte added glory of nature to inspire and delight ns, and nothing is lacking to complete the charm of Saratoga, but tle people! Ah, the people! Not that every one has de- parted; not that the parlors and piazzas are utterly deserted; but to see train after train bearing hun- dreds of friends and. strangers away every morning gives a dim foreboding of coming loneliness, which is not pleasant to contemplate, and suggests the dismal packing of one's trunk, etc. There are still many people here. Those who are on their way omreward from the North usually take Saratoga on their route, and thus there are plenty of arrivals, but the Aabitues of the place are nearly all gone. These autumn days are truly perfectly delightful, with enough of sunshine to make everything look     270    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. bright, and the air cool and bracing enough to keep us all in the best of spirits. One of the pleasantest episodes of our summer season was a trip to the Adirondacks. It being the last day of summer we were bent on making the most of it-and saw the dear creature depart in the merriest mood, with a hearty wish for "many returns of the season." To say nothing of the sparkling champagne in which we quaffed our farewell, we also drank deep of the nectar which fills Nature's cup to over- flowing. To have a new and beautiful revelation of the summer's glory, on the very eve of its departure, was something for which to be devoutly thankful. And this revelation was our first glimpse of the Adirondacks. Never was the blue sky brighter, and never looked the mountains grander or more inviting; those in the distance dimly and softly blue, those nearer by, covered with luxuriant verd- ure. To describe all the choice bits of beautiful scen- ery which presented themselves to our delighted and wondering eyes, as we were whirled rapidly along, would be a vain task to attempt. To endeavor to write down, in commonplace    THE ADIRONDACKS.      271 words, the admiration and enthusiasm with which the glory of the Adirondack region inspired us, would be like reducing one of Beethoven's grand symphonies to simple prose. And yet, we stood only at the gates-not in the heart of the moun- tains. On either side was an ever-changiin panio- rama of beauty-trees just tinted with the fresl red glow of autumn; fields and waysides covered with wild flowers, a profusion of golden and red blossoms flung with a lavis'h hand into autumni's lap, the last gift of the departing summer; little lakes without a ripple to disturb their woodland dreams as they glistened in the sunlight; narrow streams down which the water came tumbling over the rocks in angry rapids, like a human life fretting itself away in never-ending turmoil and grief; and fairy-like bridges spanning the dark and troubled waters, like that sweet hope of peace and happiness hereafter, which spans the heaven above a troubled soul. All this, and much more, we saw with delighted eyes, and grafted upon our hearts, to live there, a pleasant memory forever. And now for the other eyes which shared this pleasure with us. First, we had a special car all to ourselves. No     272     SPAREKLES FROIM SARATOGA. intruders were allowed, although any number of  rustic youths and maideins, of mothers with trouble- some babies, of old farmers and dairy-house matroins came in at the stations, and cast longing glances at our velvet cushions. But all these were respectfully informed that they could " find seats in the next car," by the awful Doctor who officiated as sentinel at our doors. Not that the Doctor was, in himself, especially  terrible, but that he was undoubtedly a perfect Cer- berus to those unfortunate travellers whom he obliged to "move on." As to whom our party con- sisted of, we think we had an average share of the beauty, wit, and talent now in Saratoga. There was the humorous poet, just as handsome and good-natured as ever; there was the famous authoress, whose charming novels have delighted homes of all grades, lhave been read alike by "Fashion's" darlings, and also by hearths where Famine " loolked over the pages with hungry eyes. There also was the "Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary from Honduras,9 an extraor- dinary man .of infinite jest, to whom we all owed our thanks for our delightful trip. And with him his beautiful wife, who presides so gracefully in the editorial chair of the Lady's Journal. -7.   THE ADIRONDACKS.      273 And there was the young artist whose telling caricatures have caused "Honest Iorace " to smile more blandly than ever, and Grant to make strange, wry faces; also, the artist's wife and little' ones. And there was a coterie of ladies besides--tle novelist's fair daughter, the sprituelle little poetess with blue eyes and soft brown hair, the "Scnti- nel's " wife, and the fair Louisianian with her hus- band. And it. will not do to leave out the handsome young adjutant, who kept ns all merry with hi s songs and jokes; nor the stately elderly gentleman, with the fine head and expressive eyes, -who sends into so mlany "chimney corners" throughout the world his numerous periodicals. And there was M5adge, and Aunt Prim, and Fitz Hulh. Last and least of all was Follette, the little dog of the strawherry-blonde type of beauty, who received more attention than anybody else. But what is the use of being jealous of a little dog? We had an excellent dinner at the Adirondack House, to which we were all warmly welcomed by the Doctor. But, considering the amount of sandwiches, boiled eggs, etc., etc., of which we had generously partaken     274    SPARKLES FEOM SARATOGA.  while on our winding way " thither, we were not alarmingly hungry. That is to say, the ladies were not troubled with appetites-the dear creatures sel- dom are; but the men were as ravenous as ever, and laid away such stores of chicken, brook trout, huckleberry pies, etc., that the only wonder is they all survived to reach home again. But, all days have an end, and blessed are those which glide away pleasantly-with a halo of sunset at the last. So passed delightfully this last day of the sum- mer, and all that we have left of it is a cluster of dried autumn leaves, red and golden-brown; a bunch of faded flowers which we gathered among the mountains, and a pleasant memory to which we shall often and fondly turn in the days to come. *  '  -    * ,     I      XXXVIII. A MORNING RAMBLE. WHAT a nice place to live il this world would be if one never had to say Good-by! Really it seems as though we had rung all the changes possible upon that dear old word during the last two weeks, and now we ale quite ready to pack our trunks and turn our eyes longingly home- ward. Saratoga is like a banquet hall deserted. There are plenty of people here yet, but they are not those who have lent a gayety to the past season. The fires are kindled in the grates, and unless one takes a walk out in the sunshine to keep warm, there is nothing left to do except to sit before the glowing coals and call up faces in the fire of all those with whom we have spent happy hours during the sum- mer, of friends whom we have just bidden a regretful farewell. All the belles have departed, and of course the beaux have followed their flitting footsteps. That some people are glad to go home, we cannot wonder. Think of the poor mothers and fathers     276     SPARKlLES FIBOM SARATOGA. who have been obliged to sit up night after night keeping watch over their daughters, until the wee sinal hours, while those chalring cr crture arriec on their innocent flirtations! We know of one old lady who has almost lost her eyesight from being olliged to wink and blink the hours away beneath the glittering gaslight, while she played duenna to a pretty flirt, whose eyes are still as bright as diamonds, and who has entrapped any number of hearts, while successfully keeping her own. Last night we had the final ball of the season; and now the lights are out, and the ball-room deserted. The music is heard no more, and nothing remains to lure or charm us; nothing save a-astore of pleasant memories, which cling around the place like the scent of dead flowers. To rid ourselves of a feeling of gloom, we have spent the morning in taking a ramble, in bidding farewell to the favorite haunts and scenes of Sara- toga's outdoor life. First among these are the Springs. There is the old Congress, to which, for many long years, have thronged the -old and the young, the grave and the g ay. This water, which has buibbled so freely for over   A MORNING RAMBLE.      2" a century, seems to have lost its pristine fire and sparkle, and gives sirgs of dying away forever. What countless scores of people have drank at this spring--and arle now mnlbered, like dry leaves, among the dead and gone. How many have sought health at this fountain, and found it; how many have drank, and turned away to die! And now the fount is growing less-fading away -a Lethean stream filled with the secret joys and sorrows of the past. Next comes the new Hathorn Spring, fresh and sparkling, and full of new life--ready to take tlhe place of the old Congress. If the latter spring represents to us the waters of Lethe, in the IIathorn we find the long-sought founll- tain of perpetual youth.- At the Washington Spring, where we go at sunset to drink farewell to the dying day, we find sweet lWemnory the presiding nymph of the place. And, as we lift the sparkling glass to our lips, with the last rays of the sun tinting the waters, we drink to the rememubrance of all those with whom we lhave spent the happy, happy days just passed. For the emblem of Iope, one must seek the Ex- celsior, and a more charming ramble cannot be     278     SPARKLES FRO5M SARATOGA. imagined than straying through the grand old woods which lead to this spring. Once entered upon this shaded path in the forest, the folly and bustle of the world are left behind, and a green curtain falls softly between the splendor and frivolity of fashionable life, and the silent, solemn beauty of nature. Everything is so full of delightful quiet-- no sound save the gentle imurmur of the leaves, or  the soft twittering of the birds who are pluming their  wings for flight. There is a soothing influence in the very air which floats around you, laden with the rich fragrance of the pines; in the sunlight, which falls sifted down through the tall forest trees, and lies beneath your feet, a thin haze of gold, over which the shadows of the leaves are forever gliding. Just half way on your walk to the spring, there lies a miniature lale in the wood, smooth as glass; a tiny mirror which Nature has left here, that even the forest trees may look down and learn what it is to grow old; for on the brink of this little lake stand the grand old monarchs of the wood, spreading their boughs above the water, and forever gazing upon their own images beneath. It is such a little lake-and yet so full of quiet beauty; and near by is a rustic seat or two, where one may sit and dream long, pleasant hours away.     t   A MORNING RAMBLE.       279 Oh; were all of life as full of quiet joy as these idle, summer hours! Leaving the Lake, we soon come to the Excelsior Spring, and as we sip of its clear waters, it is with the hope that some sunny days are yet in store for us, as happy as those which have led us thither. Retracing our steps through the shaded forest, a little walk further on brings us to the well-known Indian Encampment. Here still sits the beautiful Indian girl, who realizes for us the dark ]Miennehaha famed i-n song. Ier hair is black and glossy, a deep color tinges her olive cheeks, and her black eyes have a soft, dreamy look in them, as she sits just without the cabiil door, slowly twining thin chips of willow into fancy bas- kets. Her name is Eunice. You may look upon this Indian beauty and be charmed with the naive maid of the forest. But, as you pass on, the swarthy, ugly features of the elderly women, and the homeliness of the men, soon break the spell. These Indians live in little huts which consist of but one room, and here they eat, sleep, and pass the humblest lives with an air of supreme content. Before each door stands a little table covered with specimens of their industry, beadwork, baskets, canoes, bows and arrows, etc., etc.     280    SPARKLES FROM S ARTOGA. When the late frosts come, the Indians pack up their worldly treasures, and, deserting their tem- po'rary homes, hie away to their native wigwams in the far North. There are two Indian seers at the encalmpment, and inany a fair belle and anxious lover have souglht  to catch a glimpse of Destiny's page by crossingo the dark hands of the Indian fortune-teller with silver. Leaving the Indian encampment, we enter the grand old Park once more, to take our last stroll through its shady groves. And so we wend our way back to the hotel, satisfied that a ramble through the woods upon a crisp autumn morning, is by far more enjoyable, and more exhilarating to the spirits, than hovering around the fire, wrapped in shawls, and complaining of the early arrival of the last coiner to Saratoga-Jack Frost. One should have plenty of leisure, and but little of the world's cares or sorrows upon the mind, to truly enjoy a walk. And then an artist's loving eye and a poet's ap- preciative soul are needed to take in all the beauties which Nature strews around us. There are the green leaves which the parting kiss of summer has flushed into crimson; the twittering birds who are plan- ,-2   A MOENINTG RAMBLE.      281 ning their journeys southward, and singing their farewell so1ngs in a plaintive tone; the brown-eyed deer, which are so tame they half meet your caress in the graceful arching of their necks; the little brown squirrels which cross the path close to your feet, and then sitting upright on the grass near by, peer curiously at you; the white mists which hover over the hill-tops, and the warm golden beams of the sun which gradually absorb them; the majesty of distant mountains; the quiet peace of the val- leys the glistening of sparkling waters that lie in the sunlight, and the musical babble of the brook that glides through the shady places, and over all thlese the white clouds driftin across an infinite sea of azure--who that rambles along and takes not il all these varied charms of Nature with a lover's eye enjoys the passingo hour to its full extent?     XXXIX. ADIEUX. AUNT PrIM mildly suggested this morning that we had better pack our trunks for home. We were quite ready to yield compliance. We  have gone to the bottom of these trunks so often  during the summer season that we are really growing  tired of them, and, womanlike, begin to long for something nzew. And no wonder! For such a bewilderment of draggled silks, rumpled muslins, and dingy laces never set out on a homeward journey before. Madge says the very idea of being at home once more is delightful. She is tired to death of frizzing her hair every day for two long months, and declares that should she remain much longer she should die of the crimp! And then it is so tiresome to be obliged to array one's self in full dress every evening, when one feels much more like being at home curled up in an easy- chair and taking a nap. "(UcA UCNL1ILI w ----I-   - ADIEUJX. :283 It seems such a very long time since Madge and I had the privilege of closing our eyes in sleep be- fore one o'clock in the morning. Even Miss Airs is a little oppressed with ennui after such a continued whirl of excitement, and was heard to remark that she intended to luxuriate for the next month at home in loose sacques and old slippers, and to do nothing but read the most sensa- tional novels-real love and murder plots. It is no wonder that the poor thing is tired, after such an arduous summer as she has passed. To think of the square-inch of embroidery she has accomplished upon the canvas, which afforded her afternoon employment; the half page of French she has meandered through by way of dis- ciplining her mindl; the perplexing study of intri- cate toilettes to which she has devoted herself, and the wearisome hours she has passed in front of her mirror before she emerged from her room to daz- zle an admiring world! What a happy creature the butterfly is, who is always gorgeously arrayed, with no dress-makers' bills to pay, no hair-dressers' torments to endure, and no stupid, lunbering trunks to pack and aunpack, as she wings her flight from one place to another! A l     284     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. The penalty of being upon one's best behavior for a long season is too muchl for Madge. To be under the scrutinizing, critical eyes of the world every day from eight o'clock in the morning until afteir mid- night-to be obliged to look just so-to dress just so-to walk, and dance, and talk just so-to live without the seclusion of home in the midst of an idle, curious, fashionable world, for any lengthened period of time, is too much to be borne with com- placency by one so averse to conventionalities as is Madge. And so, although the summer has passed delight- fully, almost like a dream, with its ceaseless round of pleasures, its music, its flowers, its singing birds, its sunshine and its bits of shade-all blending together to form one charming whole-still we are content, and even glad to turn our thoughts home- ward again. For, after all, as the old song has it, "There's no place like home."  Saratoga just now is like a glass of champagne, which has lost all its life and sparkle. Every cool morning is the signal for a new army of departures. The daily scene at the depot just before the train leaves has come to be really affect- ing to sensitive nerves. Such hand-shaking; such fond embracing, such whispered adieux and oft-   ADIEUX.         285 reiterated farewells, and all this withlout a single tear to moisten the partting mollenlt--is really heart-rending. And then when the train is fairly off, to hear the comments of those wlo relmain behind, upon the. dear just-departed; tills also is heart-rending! Saratoga friendships are soon made, soon broken, and parting seems to bring no pain. But there stands that great Saratoga trunk, with its lid up, yawning to receive our dilapidated ward- robes. I wonder if that trunk is tired of its Sara- toga season, and longs to be at home again. And, as I look upon it, I imaginle that every brass-headed nail in the dear old creature shines with very glee at the mere idea of home. It is willing to endure the martyrdom  of in- numnerable bangs and thumps, to be pitched alnd whirled about by porters and baggagee-rn, that it; may find its way at last to its old familiar corner- at home! It promises, moreover, to sacredly guard every secret committed to its keeping; for that trunk is destined to carry something more than a lot of dresses and other articles pertaining to a lady's wardrobe. There are the trophies of the season to be stowed away  its it capacious boxes. Sonnets by young     286    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. Limberflap-gushing things which never fail to send Madge into spasms of laughter-bundles of tenderly indited epistles from conceited adorers, who will never love any one so much as their own / dear selves-which it is just as well to keep from Aunt Prim's vigilant eye; Fitz Iugh's picture, taken in his most charming mood and attitude, etc., etc. These are some of the "sundries" to be con- signed to the safe-keeping of that trunk. I wish it bo? voyage with all mr heart. We are promised a brief visit to Lake George before fairly turning our faces homeward, a possible trip to Niagara Falls, and a few days at West Point as we go down the river- where, of course, Madge expects to lay siege to, the heart of every handsome cadet in uniform! And so, adieu to Saratoga. The 'memory of its bright weeks will cast a glow  of sunshine far into the coming winter. The new- found friends we have made, the eyes that have  looked kindly upon us, the lands that have warmly clasped our own, fancy will often bring back to us again, until another summer shall bring them in reality.   XL. "AKE GEORGE. WE are rusticating at Lake George. Really rus- ticating! We have resigned, with a little half-sigh, the fascinations of Saratoga, and have settled down for a few days of quiet on the banks of tils lovely lake. We left our worthy President with his family at Saratoga. It is to be feared that the pool man will have a suddenl attack of lockjaw superin- ducedl by the excessive 4squeezing and shaking of hands which he undergoes. Perhaps this is the reason he is always so quiet How can a man talk, I should like to know, whose right arm is the embodiment of perpetual motion? What would he do if the French fashion of kissing prevailed among ius? Surely he would be actually smothered, by the embraces of the Goldbugs, the Money-Bags, the Petrolemnites, the Shoddyites, and others of that ilk, who swarm con- tinually around him, like so many bees hunting for sweets! And the ladies, too, would clazim their rights, and the hero of many battles would be van-     288     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. quished at last. It is but a short journey from Saratoga here. YoiU takle the train at the Springs for Glen's Falls, which is a romantic, sequestered- looking place, and is but an hour's ride. Arrived at Glen's Falls, yon are mercilessly  tumbled into a huge stage-coach, without even the preliminary caution of "this side up with care!"9 They are always in a hurry in filling up this stage. They are as nmuch afraid. of losing an atom. of time, as they are of losing an atom of space either inside or outside of that coach. The mathematical genius who presides at the stage door, to attend to the bestowal of passen- gers therein, takes your exact dimensions as you approach, in the twinkling of an eye, and places you instantly in a corner which you seem   to fit exactly, without having an extra inch of spare room. Bundles and leather bags, umbrellas, para- sols, and baskets, are, as a matter of necessity, piled up on each individual's lap, and then, wNhen the coach is filled to its u tmost capacity with men, women, and children, lap-dogs, and other baggage- all packed in like so many chickens in a coop, with not even room to flutter one's feathers-you are invited, and expected, by the smiling stage-driver, to admire the scenery.   ILAKE GEORGE.        289 That driver has a sarcastic expressioll inl tho1 twinkle of his eye, although his face smiles blandly upon you, as he extends this invitation, and witnesses your spasmodic endeavors to peep out from   the labyrinth of people, leather bags, and parasols, to view the scenery! And just at that identical moment, when you have brought your optical organls into the line of taking a " bird's-evye" view of the surrounding countr y, that driver contrives to nearly lupset the stage in some terrific lud-hloe, land you fogoet scenery, passengers, propriety, and everythingl else, to scream out with affright ,. At least y oa'1r truly"' did, and Aunt Prim  gave me a vigorous thrust with her parasol, by Tway of restorin L my self-' possession! But who wants to be upset inl a lnlud-hol! Surely there is nothiing romantic or consoling to one's feel- ings in such an event. Perhaps the best place in the world to ascertain the amount of one's self-possessio ulnder the most trying circmnstances, is in a stage-coachl journleyi ig over an uneven, hilly road. Even Alunt Prim was: startled out of her rigorous sense of propriety, lnd grasped suddenly hold of a fat old gentlelman who sat next to her, as the stag:e gave a llurch forward. Failing to catch satisfactory glimpses of the 13     290     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. scenery, we devoted our attention to a worthy couple who sat 'vis-6-vis to us in the stage. They were a bride and 1bridegroom, evidently on their wedding tour. The groom  was certainly fifty-five. No widower twice taken in by a wonmans wiles was lhe but a whimsical, fussy old bachelor, fairly en- trapped! We ransacked our brains for a reason, but for the life of us, we could not see why the bride should have taken the trouble to bait for him! But tastes differ. The bride was about forty, and two months ago, would have been called a vinegar-faced  old maid. Tall, thin, and angyular, she was the per- sonification of female prudence and propriety. We were fairly started on our way wheno this interesting couple commencedl the following conversation: "Elihlu," said the bride, "I know they have got my trunk upside cownl!  Shouldn't \wonder; but no harm'll come to the ' fixings' I reckon," placidly returned Elihu. "NSo harm?" ejaculated the bride, opening her eyes wide with astonishment at such indifference. But she was too indignant to say more. ' Susan, have you got those tickets?" "Yes,) replied Susan, holding up her hand, where the tickets were thrust inside of a cotton glove. "Well, don't lose them! And the check for the   "AKE: GEORGE.       291 valise, have you got that?" asked Elihu, anxiously. The check also was shown tucked awtay in the glove. "I wish I had broutght nmy thick coat with me," said Elihu. "Why, are you cold?" " o, but it might be cold afore niglht." We may here as well remark that the dlay, especially inside of the coach, was suff-ocatingly hot. Susan, have you got the big- umbrella?" "Yes," meekly replied Susan. "And the little one?" purued Elilm, with an air of increased anxiety. Here Fitz Iugh burst into a laugh, but as pro- priety must be observed even under the iost perverse cir cumstances, I had to give him a warnilng li illh to keep still. "Susan, have you got those tickets?" asked the husband the second time. The tickets bei]ig again produced for his satisfaction, he again enjoined her "not to lose them!" "I wish that I had broughlt my thin coat, and my straw hat. The sun looks pretty hot out there and I could just as well as not have put them in my pocket!"  And here Elihu began to search in his pockets,     292    SPARKLES FROMS SARATOGA. as though with a vague hope of finding a stray hat or coat tucked away in their recesses. Suddenly-a look of blank dismay spread over his face, as he produced a roll of coarse wire from his pocket, and exc(aimed,  in the greatest consternation, "Merciful Heavens! Jehosophat! If I haven't brought away the wire the men were to lay them ar pipes with! And if I should happen to die before I get back, them ar pipes never would be laid, right!" Here Madge burst into a little ripple of laughter; while the poor bride looked becomingly disconsolate, either at the prospect of such a sudden demise of her new husband, or at the perplexing dilelmma of " them ar pipes "-it was impossible to tell which -while her better half, also ludicrously mournful, solaced limself with eating peanuts. Those nine terrible miles being at last traversed,  we alighted, and the last we heard of this worthy couple as they moved away, was- "Susan, have you got those tickets?" and "' cdon't lose them!," ejaculated with greater emphasis than ever. Dear! dear! what would have happened if Susan had lost those tickets! But, as all tronbles are destined some time to find an endl, here we are, safe and sound, with our"Saratoga   "AKE GEORGE.       293 trunks" unpacked, and ready for any emergency, whether it be a hop or a ball, a moonlight row iupon the lake with Fitz Hugh, or anl intellectual skirmish with some of the wise Bos-tol vyouths who are here. For, haiving bid adieu to tie fashionable frivolities of New York society, we find ourselves suddenly in a1 new atmosphere, being surrounded by the dignified propriety, the ostentatious wisdom, and the mar- vellous egotism of the people fron " the lub "! It does not follow, necessarily, that all Bostonians are conceited, but they are all equally vain of the one essential fact of their being Bostonians. Alh! why, alas! didc I ever breathe, since my first breath was not inhaled in the divine air which floats over Boston Common! What right ihave I to be proud of Bunker Iill, or its monument either, since I am not a Bostonian? What music have my ears ever listened to worth hearing, since they larve never been enchanted by Boston's wonderful organ! In fact, who can expect to be either famous, or wise, if he does not hail from the modern Athens . Alas! and alas! for the people doomed to sit uponl the spokes which whirl around the immacullate "Hub! But some day we may be tempted to throw down the gauntlet, and with true Knlickerbocker spirit, de- fend the claims of Maanhattan Islanders for suipe-     294     SPARKLES FROMM ARATOGA. riority, for pre-eminence, and pre-excellence over these deluded, egotistical Bostonians. But we haven't time now. In just one hour we are g'oing to have a little regatta upon the lake with Fitz IlHu . i'tz Ilugh in one boat, and Madge and I in the other. We are learning to hanlle the oars, and can pull a stroke with Fitz Hugh any day. Madge says that she is afraid of becoming a blue-light, from daily contact with the Boston wiseacres and blue-stockings. And she further avers, that she is going to ma-ke  a psychological examination of one of these Boston  youths, to learn whether they are afraid of " learned  women! I should like to hear Macadge play the part  of a bas bleu. Whatever she undertakes she usually carries to perfection, and she did once frighten away a frantic adorer by pretending to be given to dab- bling in literature, and by overwhelming him with learned discourses from her pedantic tongue. Poor fellow! he has looked blue from his fright ever since, and doubtless is still congratulating himself that he has narrowly escaped the martyrdom of having a literary wife! It is curious to notice the views of the lords of creation in regard to choosing a wife. They expect every woman to be an infallible housekeeper.   "AKE GEOOGE.       295 They seem  to think that every mental devel- opment robs a woman of some part of her affectional nature-tha't a great soul indicates a small lieart. Ah, well! Men are apt to g1row wise] andd sad(er as they grow older. They begin to find that somne- thing else beside a pretty face and a good house- keeper is necessary to make home happy, tand look back regretfully to the time when they failed to choose a companion, in choosing a wife. A distingluished man said to me not long ago that, when he married, he "' did not want to marry a woman who knew too much! ' After le lhad been engaged in mental labor, speech-making all day, when he came home at night he didn't want his wife to talk to him; but while he rested himself, she was to fan off the flies! Now, isn't that a splendid idea of the utility of a wife? I hope when that man finds his ideal spouse, tlat slhe will lure all the flies and bumble-bees in the neighborhood into the room, where he seats hinself --and then fan herself instead of him! Does man's selfishness deserve anything )bel;- ter  To-morrow we are to sail down the lake to visit -I   old "Fort Ti," and this afternoon we are to go     296     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. "a-gypsyig" in the woods. But Madlge says it is time for our regatta-and Fitz Hugh is waiting. "My skiff is by the shore;" I throw aside my quill To ply the feathered oar!   XLL FORT TICONDEROGA. THE people who come to Lakle George to spend a few weeks, evidently do so with the full intention of enjoying themselves. There is less formality here than at Saratoga, and imuch less display in tlhe way of dress. Long raimbles in the delightful woods, which are so near by, and rowing oult upon the lake, are quite unfavorable to an elegant toilet, and, therefore, the simplest costumes are preferred. These do very well for youth and beauty to ap- pear in, for youth and beauty are charming in any guise, and go far to prove the truth of the old adage that "Beauty unadorned's adorned the most." ]But then, every one eannot be youngr and beautiful, and I have noticed that ladies whose complexions require particular care cannot be induced to vent- lire upon the water in a boat. They are all afflicted with nervousness at the mere mention of such a thing, and I fancy they are quite right in preferrilng to remain on dry land, since a few splashes of cold water Wrould be extremely detrimental to paint and powder! 13*     298    SPARaLES FROM SARATOGA. The Widower Pomfret has arrived here from Saratoga with his two sons and five daughters. It is something to be thankful for, that these daughrters are all of a marriageable age! I say this because Aunt Prim seems to fancy this grim widower. Dtear old Bachelor Grumpy, with all his funny wayS, is surely far preferable to a widower with two sons and five daughters. Goodness! What an addition that would be to our family! What woman in her senses would undertake to marry off ve clauqhters? I have represented 'this to Aunt Prim in the most pathetic tones. Poor dears! It is quite impossible to find, in lne short season, five proper, nice young men, to pro- vide for these poor little PonlRfrets. In contemplating this fact, we cannot help think- ing what an advantage it would be, if women could only take care of themselves. This looking forward of a young girl, in quest of some stray specimen of the genius ho who h may chance her way, and upon whom she is to depend for her very existence, for every morsel that she eats, and every shred that she wears, and whose ipse dixit is to be the infallible guide and rule of her life, is a popular fallacy which has held sway too long. And it is a fallacy, which, although even now being discussed and agitated, still   FORT TICONDEROGA.      299 holds its place, like those great rocking-stones which yon may easily move with your little finger, al- though human strength is luable to lift them from their places! It is to be hoped that time will change all this. For man-kind as a race are ex- tremely unreliable. If the same can be truly said of women, I should like to know if it is their fault? Who ever taught them to rely upon themselves? I do wish that one of these numerous Ponfrets would succeed in capturing. alive one of the Boston beaux who flourish here. It would do my heart good to see one of these straight-laced, sombre in- dividuals, who seem to dwell perpetually in cloud- land (that is, when they are out of Boston), brought low to terra firma by the wiles of a woman, and that woman born out of Massachusetts  These gentlemen from the "Hub " are the quiet- est, demurest-looking youths you ever saw. They have about them such an air of unlimited wisdom, of conscious superiority, that Madge says she does not utter a word in their presence, for fear of being devoured in a moment. They always appear as if just about to open their lips with wise Latin sais or Greek homilies against the frivolities of the pres- ent age. They live so enveloped int the fog of B Ios- ton Harbor, that they see the rest of the world through a mist! Not a hair of their heads is     300     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. allowed to curl, or to stand upright; their eyebrows are never disarranged,-d-but lie as placid and unruffled as the blue waters of the lake; even their eyelashes move with precision, and the eyes beneath them are generally of a cold steel-gray. Their toilette is scrupulously neat and precise; in fact, all is sleek and slender, proper even to the excess of propriety--and all emphatically Bos- tonian. Dear me! It quite takes away one's breath to gaze long at these immaculate specimens of human- ity, and it is really refreshing to one's heart and mind to steal a long glance at Fitz Hugh after con- templating these frost-bitten youths from ]Boston Harbor! Madge says she shall never lose her heart in the atmosphere which surrounds them. It is too frigid. We had a charming sail yesterday to visit old "Fort Ti."1 Our party consisted of Aunt Prim, escorted by the assiduous Mr. Pomfret, the family retinue of Pomfrets followed of course, Aladge, Fitz IIugh, and two pretty Boston belles, the latter being attended by two clear-starched "Htub " exquisites, who corrected their bad Latin, and matronized them generally. It was a splendid morning, and the water of the   FORT TICONDEROGA.      301 lake had never seemed so blue, as it threw up little waves to catch the warmn slnbeams mnd reflected the golden liglit againl and aagain. Over the distant banks and over the beaultiful islands hung the white mists-the tears whichl nliglh; had left upon the face of Nature, and which the sun had not yet kissed away. Sailing down Lake George on a morning like this was like floating over the waters of some enchanted la nd, and we half expected to see the fair forms of mermaids rising above the deep, and to hear the singingo of sirens among the fairy-like islands. But Aunt Prim quickly dispelled all such fanciful illusions, and brought us suddenly back to the cold world by remarkiing that she tholght they ought to cut down "all the trees upon those useless islands " for the benefit of the poor! I should like to see the land which was enchanting enoghl to awaken Aunt Prim's enthusiasm. In olden times this beautiful lake was called : Lac Sacrement," probably from the purity of its waters. All over its clear bosoln are scattered beautiful islands, which lie as placid and still as a quiet dream beneath the bending sky. Among these, Dome Island is considered to be     302    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. the most beautiful. Here it was that, in revolution- ary times, General Putnam effectually concealed his mlen while he held his conference with General Webb. What would "Old Put" ]lave done if some benevolent lady like Annt Prim h had had those trees cut down for the benefit of the poor? Arrived at the foot of the lalke we left the steamer and renewed our troubles in a stage by riding four fiiles to reach the fort. But we forgot in a measure our feminine fe'ars while passing over this hallowed ground, every foot of which is replete with historical interest. Of course the usual Demosthenes of Ticonderoga accompanied us, and we made ourselves merry over his carefiully delivered oration. lie pointed out to us the scene of many a bloody contest as we drove over the sacred soil-he brought before us, in a vivid picture, the gallant Green Mountain Boys, who with the brave Ethan Allen marched upon Fort Ticonderoga, and demanded its surrender, in the name of the "Great Jehovah and the Continen- tal Congress!" And all these, who fought and bled so long ago in freedom's cause, have rested upon their laurels and slept in the silent tomb for a hun- dred years. The old fort is in a sad state of neglect;   FORT TICONDEROGA.      303 I al instead of its stones being regarded as sacred ielics, the neighboring farmers carry them away to build fences with! Would it not be a good speculation for some " live Yazlnkee 9 to buy up these memlentoes of the past, and to transmit them to his children's children, until our country, now so fresh and young, has grown old, and the relics of her youth shall lhave becolme of priceless value? F'or time, which covers the dead oak with ivy, also flings over the dead past the veil of affection and of reverential awe. The sail up the lake, returning homeward, to lF'ort William Henry, was a delightful one. The young moon and the bright-eyed stars came out to keep vigil as we glided swiftly over the shining water. Fitz Hugh became inspired with the romance of the hour, and told me something rwhich only the stars heard; and one does not mind having the stars for confidants, since they never betray the secrets revealed to them! Even Aunt Prim looked pathetically up to the moon, and breathed a sigh, which was probably in memory of Bachelor Grnumpy. Just to think of Aunt Prim's standing out on deck in the night air to look at the moon, and waste lher thoughts upon that thankless man, thereby incurring     304    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. the risk of terrific rheumatics! What a self- sacrificinig life a woman lives! MAeanlwhile that mischievous Madgcle was doing her best to horrify a learned Bostonian youth by her -wisdom, but he dildnt seem horrifiec in the least-only amused. And he inflicted such a vast amount of both ancient and modern lore upon poor Madge that she began to yawn, and fancied that she had the worst of the bargain. You cannot frighten your modern Athenians by your learning, my fair sisters. They really expect something more of a woman than that she should know how to L brush away flies." As we glided past the beautiful, fairy-like islands sleeping so quietly in the moonlight, AMadge said that she would love to have a little isle of her own, on which she might dwell forever. But Madge is sadly given to romancing-and it is to be feared would find an island home quite unendurable. What i no dinner-parties, no hops or balls, no concerts, save the tree toad and the katydid duets, no German, no opera, no anything worth living for! As if one could possibly exist in a place where the latest fashions were not to be had! lAs if one could bid adieu forever to point-lace and satin, and wear   FORT TICONDEROGA.      305 linsey-woolsey all the rest of one's days without being heart-broken! As we drew near Caldwell Ladingl  , strains of music came floating toward us on the evening, air, and we could see the Fort William Henry ablaze with lights which twinkled through the trees like myriads of stars. Madge is already turning her bright eyes south- ward, in anticipation of a few days at West Point, befor  e we finally recross the threshold of home. Fitz Hugh says a girl would fall in love with a blue-coat with gilt buttons if there were no one in- side of it!     XLII. -  NIAGARA FALLS. A VISIT to Niagara Falls in the beautiful month of September, after a gay season at Saratoga and other fashionable resorts, is apt to be beneficial in more ways than one. Tle contemplation of Nature in her grandest mood, acts as a preventive to one's being spoiled by the display of extravagant folly at the Springs, and from having been drawn into the whirlpool of fashionable dissipation and sent round the vortex fron day to day until the close of the season. At Niagara man may learn much of his own in- dividual littleness and insignificance in the vast scheme of creation. He may look upon himself as but a little grain of sand amid the milghty multi- tude of men who pass over the face of the earth and are so soon lost upon the shores of the Infinite -a grain of sand which a nmoment of time sweeps away forever. And beside the brief space of time allotted to-   NIAGARA FALLS.       307 man, how eternal seems the never-ceasing voice of Niagara. For ages and ags d past, have these mighlty waters ruslhed wjith a ncver-elding flow into the dlark. abv1tss beneath, invincible and unrelenting as cruel fate, bearing everything before them with a power and a majesty that no mortal has ever yet been able to resist. And for ages yet to come, although generation after generation of men  shall pass away, like leaves before the wind; proud forests shall be I aid low; nations shall rise and fall; barren plailns become populous cities, and cities whose wealth and pover now rule the world shall become like desert places-still shall the thul der tones of Niagara proclaim the littleness of time and the infiniteness of eternity. Niagara at this season of the year is thronged with visitors. The sultriness of the dog-days being over, people can truly enjoy travelling in this charming weather -that is, provided always that they can  divest themselves of gloomy forebodings of accidents by steamboat or rail, which are but too well justified by the frequent occurrence of mishaps. The principal part of the visitors at Niagara are     308    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. transient guests, people who come and go, and carry away with them a series of pictures indelibly graven upon the mind, which neither time nor change can ever efface. Amid the gre-at number of summer resorts, Niagara stands alone in the peculiar feature of her attractions. This is no place for fashion and dis- play ; therefore it is that the giddy worldlings of upper-tendom never linger here, only stopping a day or two to gaze with a little wonder aicd awe at the mighty spectacle spread out before thein, and then rushing away to unpack their trunks and flalunt their finery in solmle more congenial atiosphere. It is all in vain for the beautiful belle to bring hither her costly silks and rare laces, or for the stately matron to display her brilliant jewels and showy equipage, to win the admiration of the world, for the world has something else to admire at Niagara-and fashion becomes too insignificant, and frivolity too palpably absurd, to hold any sway in this grand temple of Nature. Even the man of genius, he who has carved his name high up on the roll of fame and honor, feels his own littleness and the pitiful weakness of human- ity as he stands face to face with the majesty of Nature as revealed in Niagara.   NIAGARA FALLS.       309 Here fashion, for once at least, must bend her giddy head in reverence; frivolity forget its jest, and be awed into silence by the stupendous voice of Nature. Whle we are overwhelmed with the grandeur and sublimity of the scene presented by tlhis mighty fall of waters, the heart is also thrilled with the perception of infinite beauty. One should come to look upon Niagara on these beautiful Septelnber nighlts, when all the starls are out in their glory, and the nwon appears ill the heavens at the solemn hour of midnight and tlhrows her silvery beams athwart the white clouds of mist arising from the falls. Flooded with her radiance, the great mass of waters rush on like streams of mnolten silver, while weird, unearthly shapes flit in and out thro(ugh the floating mists, now gleaming in the moonlight, (ow disappearing in the sliadows. And up from tile white clouds of foam beneath, arises the beautiful lunar bow, gorgeous in color and describing a per- feet arch, as it shines resplendent through the thin veil of mist which floats around it. Silent and beautiful as the prophetic stars above, it greets tlre astonished gaze of a mlortal as though it were some wandering aungel of light sent to cheer with its soft     310   - SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. effulgence the lost spirits who weep and wail, and seud up endless shrieks upon the night from the dark, fatholnless gulf below. The lunar bow is visible only fron Luna Island, two or three nights during each month, when the moon is at its full and sheds its light directly over the American Fall. Upon the left of Luna Island is Goat Islandl with its dark wood wrapped in mysterious shadows, and beyond, the Three Sisters, now connected by a bridge, which was alm-ost as great a marvel in its accomplishment, so rapid is the rush of water be- tween the islands, as the famlous Suspension 1Bridge below the Falls  Across. the river the Canadian' shore looms dimly up in the darkness, and all is hushed in the silence of the night, except the mo- notonous, steady roar of the cataract, which knows no day, nor night, nor moment of rest or silence, but leaps, and surges, and boils, as it rushes over the fearful brink in a flow which goes on forever. But if Niagara is beautiful at night, when reflect- ing the splendor of the stars, and bathed in the witchery of moonlight, what shall be said of it as revealed in the full splendor of the noonday stn'  The golden glow of the sun crowns Niagara with a thousand new and wondrous glories. The mists   NIAGARA FALLS.       3" which are ever soaring upward, Nature's pure in- cense to the sun, are now radiant with gold, and red, and purple, and flashing with ever-varying railbows. These rainbows float in and out froln the white clouds of foam like spirits of the air with golden wings.- Above the Falls are the Rapids which rush onward in their mad career, sporting in frantic joy with the bright sunbeams, flashing back their brilliancy, and shimmering each into a thousand rays of ligllt. No one should leave Niagara without visitillg the Whirlpool Rlapid, about a mile below the Falls. Here it was that the stalnch little steamer, the Maid of the Mist, ran the gatutlet for liberty or con- fiscation, a few years ago.- any visitors to the Falls will remember taking a hazardous trip il this steamer, which was wonlt to venture farl up into the mist of the Horseshoe Fall; but which was finally attached by the sheriff for debt. But the Maid of the Mist, which had already braved so many dangers, was not to submit tamely to seizure for debt, and her owners started her on a voyage alone down the Rapids. The utmost curiosity was evinced in her ultimate fate, as she was hurried alonlg )y the swift current. Upon reaching the whirlpool she disappeared altogether from sight, and was given up     312     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. for lost, when lo! she suddenly emerged from the seething vortex with only the loss of her smoke- stack, shook the angry waters from her spars and cables, and sailed away as dauntless as ever, until she reached the placid waters of Lake Ontario, having crossed the Canadian line in safety, and thus forever escaped the clutches of the American sheriff. A wooden building has been erected upon the bank near the Whirlpool. -Here you enter a car, which carries you down a hundred and twenty feet below, to a platform of the rocky ledge. From this you de- scend fifty feet further by means of wooden stairs, and thus find yourself upon the brink of the river. Upon either side the banks of solid rock .rise perpendicularly to the height of two hundred feet, and between them rushes the vast volume of water from the fall above, at the swift rate of twenty miles an hour. The river is quite narrow here, thus increasing the depth of the stream, and render- ing the mad struggles of the waters as they leap tempestuously forward, foaming and writhing like a torrent of angry demons all striving for mastery, fearful to witness. It is always a marvel to the beholder how a steamer, or indeed any object whatever, could have   NIAGARA FALLS.        13 passed through such waters, and have still lived. Re- gaining the road at the top of the precipice, we left this troubled scene, and drove alolng the banks of the river towards Lewiston-and no prettier or :1nore romantic drive could be, imagined thlll this. The road winds in and out through deep forests and beautiful groves, past pleasant m eadows ly ing pltlid in the sun upon either side, but never strayinglr be- yond a view of the river. At Lewiston you cross a light, airy-looking sus- pension bridgle, which affords a magnificent view of the stream as it comes hurrying down, and find yourself upon the Canadian shore. A short drive brings you to Queenstownm, where is the famous monument erected to Generlal Brock. To ocle who has courage. to climb the wearisome i and seemingly intermiinable steps of this mnonllmet-they number somewhere abolit five hundred-a rare view is afforded from the top. You look down upon the blue waters of Lake Erie upon one side, and the tranquil depths of Ontario on the other. The waves of Erie are dancing in the sunlight, full of life and glee; while the silent waters of Ontario, With scarcely a ripple upon their glassy surface, lie like one vast unbroken sheet of light. Like these waters il character are the little villages and towns     314     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. which are scattered over the country beneath you-- whose dwellings look like mere specks in the distance, and whose spires and domes appear but as ornaments to toy-horses from the lofty height of the monu- ment. The American villages are full of life ald enterprise-the inhabitants, fully imbued with the national spirit of acquiring indepclndence, by ac- quiring wealth-while those towns upon the Canadian side are as listless and antiqtuated as though they had been flung down in the primitive days of the world, and had stood still ever since, absorbed with wonder at their own existence. Every banquet is said to have its skeleton at the board, and the feast of soul, ald mind, and heart, at Niagara Falls, is no exception to this fearful rule. The spectre wnro haunts this otherwise charing spot is a ghoul, who preys not upon the dead, but far worse-upon the living-and his name is fifty cents! You cannot go a few rods from your. tem- porary dwelling without being confronted by this monster, and the stamp which bears his name is de- manded. This is called a free country, but liberty in view- ing natural scenery is wonderfully shackled at Niagara. The fifty cents imposition of this plach has become world-wide.   NIAGARA FALLS.       315 You cannot cross a bridge, go down into the Devil's Hole, enter the Cave of the Winds, in fact neither cross the river nor stay upon this side, with- out paying the inevitable fifty cents. The rapacity of the hackmlen here is too well known to be worthy of mention. It seelns as though there might be some remedy afforded for this evil, that every visitor should not fall a prey to these merce- naries. It is evident that there is a mania raging along these people which only a surfeit of fifty- cent notes can alleviate. Visitors can reach the Canadian shore by nlleanls of a ferryboat which crosses to that side. This ferry is at the foot of a steep precipice, which you decend by means of a car at the top of the brink, which car being once put in imotion rushes down- ward with the speed of the wind, fairly taking away your breath with its velocity! Arrived safely at the bottom you enter the ferry, which is a small boat plied with oars. The view afforded while crossing the river is sublime beyond description. Pausing midway in the streamn, you behold a sight that, in grandeur and awful magnificence, no other spot on earth can equal. Far above you tower mountains of green water all crested over     316    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. with white foam glistening in the sunlight, and evok- ing shadows from out their own mysterious depths. And there are billows of white, misty vapor, ever rising and soaring upward, catching the sunbeams as they go, and reflecting their roseate light in a thousand brilliant-hued rainbows. Where else does Nature smile upon her children like this  The principal places of interest upon the Canada side are the British Museum, Table Rock, and Lundy's Lane, where, during the war of 1812, Gen- eral Scott first won his military laurels, and where also he was severely wounded. But the "Hero of Lundy's Lane" was not destined to end his career thus early, as the history of future years has so proudly shown, and Ameri- cans who stand upon the spot of Scott's youthful glory, remember with pride the long category of bravel deeds which have formed the hero's crown, and for which the victory of Lundy's Lane was but the first prophetic sheaf. The principal curiosity in the Museum is the skeleton of the Mastodon. There is also the huge frame of a whale, which never fails to astonish the little folks. Niagara, once seen, is never to be forgotten, and   NIAGARA FALLS.       317 the greater the number of times a person visits the Falls, the better will he appreciate them. At the first view, Niagara overwhelms us witl its vastness and terrible majesty. A flood of new and strange sensations sweeps over us, and we lose all power to analyze them. Only the littleness, the insignifi- cance of man appears before this stupendous master- piece of Nature.  People are as pigmies, and their dwellings seem so perishable beside the ever- lasting Falls, that it appears nmere vanity to build them; indeed, houses built with hands are incongru- ous with this scene. The people of Niagara should live and worship in groves, as did the ancients, or build rustic abodes, which should seem a part of Nature. If there is one place upon this earth better fitted than all others to awaken the selse of the truly sublime in man's soul, that place is surely INiagara.            9     .     i XLIII . BRASS BUTTONS.  WE are on our "; Homeward March," but, allured by the sound of the fife and drum, and out of compliment to the young glory-hunters who have their quarters there, we have stopped for a few days at West Point. Pataplan! Rataplan! Rataplan! Who does not like the sound of the drum! Now if West Point would only throw  open its doors hospitably to all spirited young ladies who have a thirst for glory, a passion for laurel leaves, and all that sort of thing, how many belles would turn cadets at once! Foi what, I should like to know, is so fascinating as a handsome youth, in a gray coat with gilt buttons, and on his head the dark blue cap which he wears so saucily d la militaire. It is a great mystery to me that, with all the clamoring for woman's rights which has agitated society during the past few years, no fair hands have yet been heard tapping for admission at the gates of West Point. I have a mind to beat a loud reveille in Uncle   BRASS BUTTONS.       319 Sam's ears myself, to awaken him to the fact that he has an army of daughters as well as sosl to be provided for. Have we not had' any num!ber of notable examples of feminine soldiers who have won the undyillg crown of fame by their bravery and their enthusi- astic devotion to the cause in which they were en- gaged? There was the valiant and beautiful Clorinda, of whom Tasso sang in his "Jerusalem Delivered;" there was Joan of Arc, the inspired girl who led whole armies on to battle, filling their hearts with her own enthusiasm; and, coming down to latel' times, there was Sally St. Clair, who foughlt bravely by the side of her lover all through the P2evolution.. Just think what splendid officers might be madec of some of the pretty girls who are rusticating ]here! What soldier would ever think of deserting, or what mutiny would break out in the ranks, if a charming young lady like Cousin Maadge, dressed in a short frock of blue cloth trimmled with gold lace and gilt buttons, with a little cap placed d la miliqtaire above her glossy tresses and worn with a defiant air, should assume command? And then what, a saving of rations there would be to Uncle Sam, if all the soldiers, rank and file, were to fall in love with their     320    SPAEKLES FROM SARATOGA. pretty commander, for people in love are so apt to lose their appetites!  Here is an idea worthy of consideration by politi- cal economists. Fitz Hugh doesn't seem to have a decided pen- c/iant for the West Point cadets, probably because Madge and I have. Fitz Hugh remarks, sarcasti- cally, that " any monkey dressed in uniform would captivate a woman's heart, if he assumed the airs and graces of these cadets." But then the poor fellow is growing rather cynical of late, and what he says is not always to be relied  upon.  I think two or three seasons at Saratoga  have spoiled him. He has lost his first belief in the perfection of the fairer sex-from seeing so 1much of the artificial and false among them-and now  goes quite to the other extreme, and pronounces them all deceitful. However, he has grace enough to except the ladies of his own party. But, Fitz Hugh notwithstanding, the West Point cadet is a splendid fellow.- Iis physique nust be unexceptionable; he is tall, broad-shouldered, strong as a young lion, and knows no fear. lie is inured to every hardship. Wrapped in his blanket, he sleeps as soundly upon the cold bosom of Miother   BRASS BUTTONS.       321 Earth, with the whispering winds swIeeping over ]lim and the far-off stars keepilg faithlful watlch, as though he rested upon a bed of lownr. And( who guesses the sweet dreams and loving fancies which hover around the hard pillow of the young cadet through the long vigils of the lonely night? As the physical condition of the cadet mnust be excellent, so his intellect must be keen and bright-- the history of all nations must be as familiar to him as nursery tales. He must be able to grasp the most subtle questions with quickness and ability. He must train his mind to rapidity of action as well as his body. He knows that, in all probability, the day will come when with the eyes of all the world upon him, he will be required to plan the most daring schemes quickly; and without the slightest loss of time, to act with rapidity of movement, coolness, and unflinching bravery. He who stanlds the test when it comes is sure to cover his name with glory, while he who fails is as surely buried in ignominy. It's all useless for Fitz Iugh to sneer at the West Point cadet, for he is a glorious youth, and his greatest attractions are not his gray coat and gilt buttons. At least Cousin Madge thinks so, for she has half lost her heart to that handsome young Achilles, who "*     322     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA.  is this moment bending over her and whspering compliments in the most approved manner. Ah, well! "Only the brave deserve the fair!  The  scenery around West Point is unsur- passed. The sublimity and loveliness of Nature meet your eye, turn wherever you will. Lofty peaks, which lift their heads proudly far above the clouds; green valleys which lie tranquilly, like one sleeping softly--half draped in. sunshine, half in shadow; and the broad, blue river which mirrors the infinite depths of the sky reflects the majestic moun- tains and verdure-clad hills, the quaint castles perched far up among the iocks and treesi the little sequestered cottages which nestle near the shore, and then rushes swiftly on to whisper to the sea the  story of all this loveliness. If the scenery of the Iudson is grand and beau- tiful in the broad light of the sunshine, what shall be said of it on a clear moonlight night? Is there any picture in poetry or in art which can equal this beautiful dream of Nature? The moonlight casts a glow of beauty over the mnost commonplace objects; but when the magnificent scenery of the Hudson is  bathed in its silvery light, when all the wizard charm of the night is cast like a spell over these rocks and hills, what poet's pen or artist's pencil   BRA SS BUTTONS.      323 could faithfully reproduce the picture? No wonder that marvellous legends, and tales which blanch the cheek of the listener and send the leart-blood quicker through the veins, cling to these shores, for if ever wild romance ad poetry d ad p y d fittingl hoime on earth, it is here. One can easily fancy the spectres and goblinls which haunt the Dunderblrg to be no imere dream; can see the weird spirits which float and hover around old Crow's Nest, or cluster in myriads lupoll holy Saint Anthony's Nose. And then the white shadows which haunt the dark glens and vales, and which the moonlight brings to view, seem like white- robed spirits; and the mists which float alon0g the0 shore, just at the edge of the river and at the foot of the cark mounitains, appear lilke airy barques awaiting to carry these unknown visitants of earth back to the spirit-land. Ah, well, if one should linger too lo1ng amid these delightful haunts, the garb of romance would so enwrap him that the everyday world would seemn too cold and prosaic to live in. The only thing rwhich enables Madge and I to maintain our equilibrium, and prevents us from floating away among the clouds, is the gray coats and brass buttons which flutter arounld 11. Besides,     324     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. it is so amusing to notice Fitz IIngh's un-easiness and Aunt Prim's inclreased vigilance. Every morning at eight o'clock the ilnspiring soulnd of the drum sumnmons us hastily from onr looking- glasses, with flying ribbons and half-brushed tresses, to witness the "Guard mount; " and then these war-  like youths, evidently forgetting their soft good-nights  of the previous evening, salute us with the thunder  of cannonl and the sound reverberates from peak to peak and dies away amid the mysterious distances of the mountains. Madge was inclined at first to pout a little at this reception, and declared that "Charles Augustus wished her a curious good-morning "! Aunt Prim finds the noise of cannon and guns un1congenial to her sensitive nerves, and vows that it is a shame for the government to waste so much powder and shot in times of peace! Aunt Prim would be invaluable as a political economist! After the parade we have breakfast, and speaking  of breakfast reminds me of something I saw this morning, and this was the spasmodic efforts of a lady to sever the delicate meat froml the wing of a broiled chicken. "To be or not to be," is a question; doubtless, of momentous importance, but whether it is en regle   BRASS BUTTONS.       325 to pick a chicken bone in one's fingers or to. perform that operation with the cruel knife, is also a matter to be carefully debated. There is valuable autlority to be quoted in favor of each method, and disquisi- tions both amusing and instructive upon the subject to be conned. Soyer, the illustrious French cook, never prepared a banquet but he provided also a great number of small birds expressly for the ladies to pick the little bones with their fingers. Never, he said, was a lady so attractive as when holding the delicate winlg of a bird in her dainty white fingers, and ever and anon wiping her rose-bud mouth with the snowy naplki i. Now Soyer catered to the tastes of the most aris- tocratic people in the land, and may be accepted as good authority upon the etiquette of the table. But against the great French cook, we -have the illustrious English poet Byron, who declared that he never wished to see a lady cat.  Byron would doubtless have fed his inamorata upoll honey- dew and nightingales' tongues, and but sparingly at that. What would he have said had he seen her picking the bone of a defunct chicken in her fin- gers? Inflfo rtunatelr , we of the o weaker sex are not yet quite angelic enoulgh to subsist entirely upon love and nightingales' tongues, and although Byron     326    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. may be admirable authority for moolIligilt nights, Soyer is infinitely to be preferred for breakfast. So I thought this morning at the table, and I felt very lmuch like remarking to the lady who was making her matin meal evidently ill great awe of the sable waiters and the observant strangelrs: "My dear Madam--take courage! Cease your frantic endeavors with the knife upon that miserable fowl-and follow Soyer's advice." But as I had some little hesitancy in speaking thus to a perfect stranger, and remembering that example was alw ays better than precept, I boldly lifted a chicken's wing in my fingers d la Soyer. In defence of my "line of conduct," I quoted Soyer in a subdued tone-of voice, but Fitz ulgh  annihilated me instantly with Byron, and with, more- over, a Byvronic scene! Oh, lear, I haven't relished a breakfast since; I think this contretemjips gave  me a fit of dyspepsia, and Madge says I'm growing  thin! But I've had my revenge on Fitz Hugh. These splendid moonlight nighlts are especially calculated for flirtations, and it would be such a sin not to improve them! The hops and balls given by thee cadets are all over, but there are moonlight strolls and pleasant ,   BRASS BUTTONS.       327 walks muder the trees to be enjoyed, with only the stars looking down upon you-dancinlg in the parlor or promenadinug on the piazza, and all this with some tall, broad-shouldered youth in uniform, whllo may some day be a brigadier-general, or a hero with the fadeless wreath of glory upon his brow! What these poor cadets do when the cold winter comes, when they are left in utter solitude to delve among their books, and in the loing evenings to smoke their cigars beside the fire in loneliness-when all flie gay crowd which throngs here during the summer months is gone, and there are only memories left of the sweet faces, bright eyes and silvery voices which gladdened their hearts for a little while, and thecL vanished only to leave a painful void-how they console themselves passes my comprehension. -We suggested the propriety of leaving Aunt Prim at West Point this winter-what a belle she would be! And I am sure she would not desert her post, if she once accepted it, for she is an excellent person to be placed " on giardal "-at least, Madge and I find her so. There are a great number of delightful drives around West Point. One of the pleasantest is that which leads to Corilwall. The scenery is charm- ing; the road winding now along by the water's     328    SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. edge, now tlhrough shaded woods, and again through  long avenues of cedars. Yesterday we drove to Fort Montgomery, a distance of five miles, and in- dulged anew in revolutionary reminiscences. And, at the charming hour of sunset, we took a long walk to Fort Putnam, to behold the river from its heights. A scene of surpassing grandeur rewarded us, for the sun went down in a sea of golden glory, flooding the sky with crimson and yellow clouds, which floated far above the river anid cast their rich glow over its waters. And, between two lofty peaks that loomed up on opposite sides of the stream, stretched a narrow strip of tinted cloud rwhich seemed like a fairy bridge over which the immortals were passing. Why should our artists seek in foreign lands beyond the seas for scenes to inspire their pencils  Here may they drink in Nature's loveliness, even to intoxication of heart and soul. And when the Great Artist has touched our native land with the softening pencil of Time, what other realm beneath the sun shall equal it in beauty? It needs only the ripenling maturity which years will brint; the clustering associations and endearilng memories which shall encircle every spot and make of it all "hallowed ground."   BRASS BUTTONS.       829 No better place could have been selected for a military academy than amid these scenes of loveli- ness on the banks of the noble Iludlson, for what patriotic heart could faLil to be fired wth enthusiastic ardor, if called upon to defend, or die for, such a country? We cannot help looking regretfully at the steam- ers which pass us going down the river-for we know that we mlust follow soon. Even the river itself seems to call us with its pleasant murmur, as though longing to waft us homeward.     AXLIV. EYES %IGI5 T! ;' WHAT disciplinarians they are at West Point. If ever any place of education turned out immaculate youth, finished to the last degree of perfection, surely that place ought to be our military acadermy. It would be rather dangerous to marry one of those cadets; one would be expected to draw every breath by rule. Punctuality at breakfast would be indispensable -no curl-papers allowed there, either-andc dinner would have to-be in readiness at the dinner hour, sJiar). In fact, it would be "file right," and '"file left" all day long, until one would feel inclined to break through regulations altogetheri to rob all smaashable things of their geometrical proportions, and to send gilt buttons, shoulder-straps, and all other military " traps " flying out of the window. A West Point cadet is expected to pay such ni- rnte attention to every trivial matter, that the only wonder is how he nanages at, all to, fill his mind  with subjects of vaster importance. Here an unfort-   "EYES RIGHT!       331 nate cadet is "reported" for being thirty seconds late for breakfast. Only half a minute! think of it, ye youths and iaidens who spend hours in dressilg for dilner! Another poor fellow is censured for leaving two buttons of his coat unfastened, alother for' wearing his hat-band awry, and another for turning1 his eyes for the space of a second in tle wrong direction. What a good thinig it would be to send some of, our New Yorkers to West Point for awhile, that their eyes might be trained to a becom- ing sense of propriety, this branch of their education seems to have been so wofully neglected. I wish all the old gentlemen, the middle-ared men, and the young addlepates also, we meet on the cars, in the stages, or on the pavement, had been taught to keep their eyes in a proper direction. The way in which lNeW York people stare, is partic- ularly remarked by every strange,'. In 1no plale upon this side of the Atlantic does one have to enlcun- ter such a formidable battery of eyes as in our ownl city. A young lady enters a street car. If, llllck- ily, she happens to be t he only lady in the car, im- mediately the twelve masculines seated opposite seem to devour her with glances. Twentv-four eyes are remorselessly levelled at her; although these twelve gentlemen are supposed to be reading their     332     SPARKLES FROM SARATOGA. evening papers. But, somehow or other, the twenty- four eyes manage to peep out from either side, or over the top of the pape', or long glances are stolen from behind it. Meanwhile, these would-be wise- acres hold the paper aloft, as though they were all absorbed in the affairs of the nation, or thrilled with interest at the latest news from the seat of war. Blah! stocks and bonds, government securities or national loans, peace or war, politics, religion, or murder-all of which are crowded into the columns of a daily paper-are insufficient to absorb the at- tention of the lords of creation if a pretty woman happens to come in their wNay. I repeat that eyes should be trained to mind their own affairs, and not to annoy other people. Since only a certain limit is allowed to the tonigue, why should not a restriction be also placed upon the still more eloqulent language of the eyes? And how does the young lady enjoy the indiscrim- inate attention she receives from behind the twelve newspapers a If she be a city belle, she is used to the strange ways of New Yorkers; and her face assumes a look of the utmost sang froid. Her glances are bent neither to the right nor left, but directly be- fore her, and she is no more disconcerted than   ' EYES RIGHT!.      333 she would be at home in her boudoir. But if she chances to be a country maiden, and not accus- tomed to city inmpudence, she is easily embarrassed, and wonders what can be the matter that everybody is looking at her. She fancies that her costume is in some way disarranged; that perhaps her hair- pins are falling out, her collar is unfastened, or her hat is put on "'one-sided,--people do stare so! But no, nothing is the matter, except that these starers have never been taught to keep their eyes in the right direction.     XLV. FAREWELL. ALTHOUGH the season is late there are some three or four hundred people still at West Point-people of wealth, culture, and refinement--- who it is a pleasure to meet and to know-very little shoddy, very little affectation, a scarcity of the Saratoga wriggle, and even the "Boston dip " seems to lack popularity. Have I alluded to the " dip"' particu- larly? I think not; and, supposing your curiosity to be on the qui vive, I will endeavor to- explain. Imagine Fitz Hugh and Madge floating gracefully through the divine redowa. The music swells, and then dies away to softer tones; then rises buoyantly again, and Madge and Fitz Hugh float with the music. When this is loud, the dancers stand upright; when it sinks to softness, they bend almost to the floor-just like two barques floating upon a sea of melody, and rising or falling with its waves. And this is the "Boston dip." But while dancing it, Madge has very much the appearance of being afflicted with fainting spells, while Fitz Hugh seems tenderly to   , FAREWELL.       335 support her! Now when things become personal they are sometimes unpleasant, and I have thereforle discouraged the "dip." So has Aunt Prim. What new freak Dame Fashion will launch upon society next season it would be hard to conjectlure, but we do hope that the Saratoga wriggle and the ; Boston dip " will have had their cay and have for- ever disappeared. We were quite enliveled to-day by the arrival of the Widow Dash from Saratoga. Allured by the sound of the drlums, a. well as the other numerous fascinations which cluster here, th fair widow has alighted like a sunbeaI in our midst. She came, she saw, she conquered! Already tie charms of lovely maidens alnd sweet-faced, youtlhfll matrons are sinking into insignificance before the bewilcerments of this widowed enchantress. Talk about the stupidity of the poor butterfly allured by the flame! Butterflies are angels of reason compared to these foolish men. The Widow Dash gives an adorer but one look, and 1e is con- quered immediately, just as much as though a bullet had pierced his heart. She twists every man who ap- proaches her around her little finger in the twinkling of ain eye, and while the poor simpleton imagines lie is gaining grace in her favor, lhe is only becoming     3.36    SPARKLES FROM3 SARATOGA.  hopelessly entangled himself, while the artful widow  is laughing at him in her sleeve. There goes a curious-looking couple down the piazza as I write-a tall, middle-aged lady, hand- somely dressed, and carrying a pet dog under her arm. Beside her walks the smallest and most insignifi- cant-looking man imaginable. Some little men have great souls, but the soul of this man could be easily balanced on the point of a No. 10 needle. And what I should like to know is, that when a woman has a puppy for a husband, why does she burden herself with an additional cur in the form of a lap-dog? Now, if tyranny ever displayed itself upon a human face, then does every feature of this petty-sized, petty- souled man indicate that he is a domestic tyrant, alnd that his wife, who is evidently his superior in every- thing, has beei a perfect slave to his every caprice. As she is head and shoulders above him, I have thought of suggesting to the poor lady that when her lord and master did not conduct himself properly, it might be a good idea to lift him off from his feet by the hair of his head, and then give him a gentle shaking. But, upon closer examination, I have discovered that the little man wears a wig. Now   FAREWELL.        337 what is to be done under such circumstances I once read of a woman who had a dwarf for a hus- band, and when he didn9t behave himself she stood him upon a high shelf, and kept him there until he promised to be good. I think that lady upon the piazza might profit by this examplle, only she ought to place her husband upon a shelf so high thLat lie would never come down. There is no resource left to this poor wife but to join the Sorosis and plead upon the platform for her rights-for rights, I am sure, she never had. But she has not spirit enough for this, and tamely submits to her destiny-consoling herself meanwhile with her lap-dog. Probably she estimates that it; takes two puppies to make a man. According to my calculation it, would take half a dozen such men as her husband to make one good- sized, lovable, respectable man. And then he would have to be moulded out of "better clay" at that. Madge sits by the window, humming: "If I had a little husband no bigger than my thumb," at the sound of which Aunt Prim looks up serenely. and advises Madge to think of something else beside husbands. Madge laughs and saucily replica:;' ()11, I1(         338     SPARKLES FIOM SARATOGA. dear, auntie, I wasn't thinking of husbands-only of bachelors." Aunt Prim  took this as a personal affront, as referring to poor Bachelor Grumpy, and darted lightning flashes at poor M[adge froln behind her spectacles; then giving her flounces a terrible shake, she rushed froin the room. . That Madcge is a dreadful girl! Aunt Prim feels  so sorry for poor Grmnpy because lie has no one to  keep his buttons in order. But what's the use of    i wasting pity on a man? Macdge doesn't mind Aunt Prim's wrath, and ruibs her little hands gleefully, for now she can carry on a desperate flirtation with that handsome Colonel who is riding over the green, with no spectacled eyes gazing horribly at her. Maldge often renmarks demurely that she hopes Aunt Prim will get mar- ried before next summer, to which I devoutly add -Alen! It is enough to break olne's heart to think of bidding adieu to West Point. But the fates are irrevocable, and to-morrow mornilng will be sad with our farewells. No more delightful drives-no more charming walks-no more romancing in the moon- light here, where all Nature is romantic, and where every hour inspires us with deliglht and entlhusiasm. The eye never wearies of gazing upon those distant   FAREWELL.        3 3 mountains which rise so proudly to the s!k, upon the green smiling vales where only happiness seems to dwell, and upon the broad blue river, which flows majestically along, as thouzgh conscions of all the loveliness which throngs its shores. The glowing kiss of autumn has turned the crimson leaves to golden ; the sky is beautifully, serenely blue ; and every night the great round moon comes slowly up behind the hills and flings a golden radiance over all. Alas! how few there are who openl their hearts, iand dwell with a lover's eye ulponl the beautiful which lies everywhere around us! In the halls of memory, where hang1 pictlures of the unforgotten, the lovely scenes of West P;oint will have an honored place, and will shle out brightly, never to be hidlden by the shadowy mists of the past. And when we are safely bivouacked in winter quarters, the sound of the dlrum, the morning parade, the brilliant cavalry charge, the thundelring of artillery pealing from crag to crag, and the manly forms and pleasalnt faces of the cadets, will all come back to us, lnot like a di'eal-- but as a vivid reality. And so we bid farewell to its pleasant scenes; to     340     SPARKLES FRlOM SARATOGA. its summer hours of sunlight, when the birds sang and the flowers bloomed; when every hour yielded some new pleasure, and every day left a pleasant memory to link it to the past. When I remember all The friends so linked together, I've seen around me fall, Like leaves in wintry weather, I feel like one Who treads alone Some banquet-hall deserted, Whose lights are fled, Whose garlands dead, And all but I departed.-Moon E. THE END.  
         
      
   
