
    ----CITATION----
        Hare, R., Mrs.. Standish .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6624
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Standish 
            
               STNDISHe

ionof our Pa

r-r~~()  L

I

FIRST EDITION.

ilL ) I~I N  r  J i~hii SIlL r  V

0

4I

4~ i

4

I

I

14
Aj

,sill a


Y
LJ'S

IEZnfted tCr!nfzrto A'-t C:.z~tZ
raura  no go  0 0e  0.a - :
A,  0. L  RIYG,
S car.  9  9 A9.3 Z
*  99  * -  -* *  - 9-.9  * *
-9  -99*- 9
-..-'.- -.-.
-99-.-.
J.  .  az s *  r,*

BEFORE my little story appears in print. I hare an act ofj jice to perform to
some of the real heroes of the war, whose exploits, simply and truthfully nar-
rated. will, I am sure, interest the reader far more than any inagin v qualities
with which I have endowed my characters,
Horace Strategem at Cheat River, b which the right flan           ir
nettSifore was reached and the contest decided, was execu            -l
Dumnrt, 7th Indiana Reginent: while to Grneral W. F. Bartlett
com1ness. skill. and courage which enabled him to save So many, liv
Bluff; and the magnanimity he showed when wounded ia Richmond, be.
Captain. now Major-General Ricketts.
Edward' perilous night-ride from Washington to Annapoli, by which cot
munication was opened between the North and the National Capital, was per-
Shneral Lander. Ike's Iring salute to the stars and stripes: i
3"1ass11Usctts boy, who was pressed into the Rebel ranks and shot by his own
ofieer in  raping to join the Union troops : the brave Georgian, who died by
General Garnett's side, are all drawn from life.
During thi last four years, human soul, stirred to ther lowrSt depths by rob-
canic fire, have grven birth to acts of the blackest crime and u:' the purest virtue.
Goethe say5 of the legendary history of Rom,. "if the AncientS wre znt
enough to conceive of such things, we might at least b2e great enough to believe
in them   But our duty is a far easier one, to look with faith and gratitude
upon the de- dA of courage, and selfacrifice, which our countrymen have jut
performed.

A

PREFACE.

/I

'L

II


STANDISH.
A TALE OF OUR TIMES.
INTRODUCTORY CILUTER.
 - the queen f Yankeonm, the moving; sprint of all New
Enilandc on. rgies,. the centr- of a semicirle of thriving towns and
villages. adorned by trees, lawns, garden and paterres - Boston
even. -active. intllbetual. hartiw rkinrg. beautiful B ston - has her
idlers and her gtssips. To these the papering, painting, and general
repairing f4 a ho use in Beaon Street was a subject 'f much atten-
tion at the time when our Story begins.-
Mrs. Thymps~on entered her dinin-rom fifte'n arrinutes past her
dinner-htur, breathless with the imp rtance f her cormunication.
Charles. what can  l Mr. Stand h mean to do with that Beacon
Street house ? I askild one of the workmen c mint out of number
ninety thi mntrning. who hal emp0l yed him. adl he said. Mr. Standish.
Is it nlt strange. Charles
Mr. Thompsn as he slowly settiniztI the conttt of a dark-
looking dish b.-fore him). " Sfrange that Mr. Standish should hire
workmen. vm  dar ? not half so strange as Brdget's pertMacitv in
burning rmy  eefsteak, day after -day. I14w often nmust I say that
I am not a salamndrtand1canoradca't eat coals fr my dinner.
Never -mind. Charles. such a trifle it 's ronnin day. yu know,
and Bridget i slain: herself to death over your shirts. Now tell
me why you don't think it strane that Mr. Standih is filing up
that Beacon Street tuse. Did yoU hear anybody ipeak C it. down
town t-day ? Yoi must kt.i st  thing about it. Will V give
up his haudsome resident   Summer Stret where 'he ha; lived so
long?
Not tiat I know o. my dear. Confound this tinder, I nearly
hrok. a to th upon it. I did hear s me one sav that he
Noie with.ut. xx h9p    i -wop4  who)p
I' a will Indian. clear the way'. r I '11 scalp y
Master Charlie  stop. Master Charlie stop. yu ad Ioy r  Give
Miss Fanny her dlthis minute 7"
Papa! papa ! he 's g #t Florence Nightingale : oh you wicked
bMy, and he 's pullin g her head off!
The dining-room I-r is now burst open. in spite ofC n'rse's re-
straining hand, ani Miss Fanny rurn to her triIual otf dtroestic
iustice. Papai's chair. clrselv flowed by Master Charihe. who holds
his scalped victim in one hand, and her kaen curls in the other.
a9

0.


1qt

STANDISH.

Lounder and louder rise the appealing voices. Fanny,.obbing,
"Is it right, papa, to take the head ofT Florence 7"
Charley.  "She 's not beheaded, child. You're so stupid. See,
papa, Fanny calls this beheading, when all the time I 'm a wild
Indian, and scalp."
Fanny giving him a push). "Go away, you naughty boy.
Papa, is it fair? Mv best wax doll. shall he scalp her'? she has done
him no harm."
Charley.   Girls are so weak-minded, -thev are never up to
fun."
Mr. Thompson (recovering the use of his faculties., " Fun, sir,
do you call this fun. to sp il your little sister's dellt and mrl.ake her
cry   I Io back tw the nursery. an tind snmSthing better t d.
here, Fanny. Come sit in papa' sLip arid eat sn1 deser: with him.
Nurse shall glue onl Florence curis, and thn lie will be as Pretty
as eve-r."
Mrs. Th mpson.  "Charles, you do spl-ii that little ery-ha1-v so.
You know Charb-y has been kept fran schl A iv a s re throat, and
he must have some amusmnitt.     Come' her", myi sn, a: Iit by,
mamma*: cntame, eat the plurS out f mn:1 tUii  pdirgii.''   wLring
her vice.) - Y u shall have a doll to calp after dinerr'" N urse re-
tire;. bearing d4ll and scalp.
Mrs. Thomps n (returning to the charge). " Nv, :x dear7
you weresavin: soniethi about Mr. :tan
Mr. Thotrpon (severely  " I wish. my d xar. yau w   1 esow
upon yOur kitchen and nurry the attend    vs: ;:;ve to vaur
neighbio'r's concern;. When the dir ner s berJ'  k   C. d Ihar-
ley behave s   rederlcntly. I nay r member Ttning abut Mr.
Standish."
Mr. Thmp; n now dii aided blaattentioi etween the li ie pet upon
his knee and his dinner :while Mrs. Thmn11. picking: a' ums
for Char'y. U4:sokd Lerlf with the hu ihr. that. at h  friendd
Mrs. Brown    tea-party that evening. lr  d 'in her now red ilk
with La .one I, she Could i1cus;. ;ith a hice 'irch' f :ossip;,
the'sayin . .d  Iin ;    ths t  hi her  andI n m re di:t rui
odwhog ':hren'Id 'she we not admitted.
It w  fipast eiht o'clock.    Mrs. Brown's parl.r was be-
ginningi, to  . -nt that the ctnipany was !arr, I at the pa!,r was
small. Ind#-dl. as :ne gin d an eve over the' renmit ;d tA'Won-
derful that that large, awkward.          Illol-humr id man. with h ener-
getic lttle wie n his anrm nhU'd n T1itcome entan:d am n; ;me
of the idlia ta ec with i wers. albums, or scent-bottls nipothem,
whwih an uninitatrd jI ;erver wud urppI'  t4 be *  iany  thrapset
by Mrs. Brown ir th1#7'  erthrow of h r :uest. But n. Mr. sam-
son Purso, n  r the ;xtlfa * e .Of hi Dit h . wh' aiway; keeps him
W#" 1haxen an   4 nr. is pil ted rounl this Syla an1 that Cha-
ryid%. mnii he hs safely landed at the hurl r f t Mr;. Brown's sofa.
Mr. IPurse Js xolelumnsily- to Mrs. Brown. arpli hi bs thumbs to the
arm-hole; of' hi; waistcoat, and expanded himself writt an air of gen-
eral benevolence. ,
Mr. P'trae. " Good eved;y' marm. Hope I see you well. Fine
Mrs. Brown (in a tome of f'algar a$ eetation. accenting every syk-

lable of every word). "You are indeed verv kind to inquire con-
cerning my health, Mr. Purse : I have been an invalid many years,
unable to mingle in the practical duties of life, but happy, always
most happy, to welcome -my friends. But, hem -hem - is not the
wind a little easterly this evening? I feel some slight irritation in
my throat.
Mr. Purse (gallantly). "It must be. if you say so, toy dear
madam: your throat is a perfect barometer."
Mrs. Brown. "Oh! Mr. Purse, you" -
Mrs. Purse (interrupting her.- You are a happy woman, Elza-
beth, to he able to cosset yourself up about the wind and all that,
take journeys for your health, and have your husband and son
always closing do ,ors, and opening ventilators for you.  'T is n't
evervbotly. Elizabeth, that can make such a fuss over themselves,
nor wt0uld it suit the designs of Providence that they shouIld: cause,
throats or no throats, the work -of the world must go IIon. I never
had time, my dear. to have a throat or lungs, or anything cfthe kind.
Ask Saru*n. he '11 tell you that many 's the day I ve said. Samson,
I'nm sick this morning, I must stay in bed and take care 1of myself,
when such a hubbub in the nursery !  Up I jump. and find little
Sammy performing in his night-drawers on the tops of the bedposts,
;Zallyscreaming alter him to come down and be dressed: this fright-
ensb    . naturally, who sets up- her dear little pipes in the cradle,
and manma munt put all to rights, and then, just as I am going back
to bed again, there's Samson's voice calling sharply "-
Mr. Purse (taking one hand out from his waistcoat and waving it
blandly). " I deny the sharpness, my dear. when addressing you."
Mrs. Purse. "Well, sharpfor yon.'cause you 're calling. Where's
the clean clothes ? there 's not a shirt- in mv drawer.-wife."
Mr. Purse. "The absence of a shirt, like the p-res;euce of an East
wind"
Enter Mrs. Thompson (radiant in red silk). "Got evening. Mrs.
Brown, -Mrs. Purse, you are quite a stranger. Oh! lMr. Purse, I 'm
so glad to see You! You know everything, and can te11 llme if Mr.
Standish has really bought that house in Beacon Streef."
Mr. Purse (bowing). "He really has, Mrs. Thompson."
Mrs. Thompson. "And why does he give up hi; oll lhus ? "
Mrs. Purse. "Tired of it. I suppose. These rich people like
moving, it gir";'em something to do. But dear me. I 've moving
engh without giving up my house. There 's alway; something or
somelbdv to be looked after. from garret to cellar, from cellar to
garrut: a woman must be always on the go."
Mr. Purse. "Yes, tongue and all, my dear."
Mrs. Thpmpson (entreatingly h "But, my dear Mr. Purse, pray
tell m. before we are interrupted, why Mr. Standish dbe give up
his Summer Street house."
Mr. Purse. "I will gladly tell vou, my dear madam. all that I
know. But this is more thanI kaow"
Mrs. Thompson. ' "What ! he does not give up the lds house. and
-yet has bought this new one ! Oh ! I have it. Miss Standish is
ging to bN ! Very strange in the family t' keep the en-.
gagenment s Who is to marry her, Mr. Pur. 7
" Her, -         e you mean, - drawled out young Rnrn, the

4

STANDISH.

I

v

5


6

STANDISH.

only son an4 heir of the flourishing dry goods establishment of
Brown &amp; Son :' Pon my honor. I should not ibjsct to take her my-
self, if her governor would pay down a handsonle figure."
"Who 's that talking of a handome tigrure  Fie! tie,! my child.
you must not p aise yourself.' "  And Miss Lemn:. in fellow satin,
with a bird  paradise in hi'r ,anty' black hair. pushed her way
rapidIly to Mrs. Brown's sot. h  1i: up her finreior reprovinzlv at
Mr, AIdlphus Brwn, as she deed him. and c. tntinuin in he rbihgh.
shrill vi    What  's tha  vou are svinzr,    P il'  4bod
evening, Mrs. Bren 1 1 v in:. alf. Miss Sr i i to 1be mar-.
ried ' N th-n4 , h    kid   MV%   ' iadiU is Prident of the,
United SJiintrs Sewin: %irce at W. Ti'thv'l, and ha t n'r I seen
her all tiSr nriWf c1 'it gc:  .1   ' hn'nrwitt dime r"n
a6 if p'very div
jacket  Arol yv :h a 0 t m±.: i.ether. IPiesi $ n jiet'  ot'f annel
and  lt   t h  'nds t the S          Iiry. but n t ta sra it'h alw iv
to be wahIt I can ttll yu.- She's n1t  IUZ 0  11e married    tha 's
Certain. Mr. Pur   turning  aha rpIarie uni him . v   can
tell us all about I the1i t hes, I see  :e I k I.w xvn .f '1. M
people like to taIk if their nizhb r  'n mros without knwwin:
then. but ou inlike t' knw W  be  il'nt, ama'inh v  rm~I with t1e
btlundetrs If tither.. N w. I xy, rc:. up, and :11 u&amp; a!! vi a knw
abiou tih' Siix h  '
My' diearx' yiu  laiy. yu hv' tin  I irv, vrf n
mately acqiua v   with :h nixy Ph     I can    r h .   to i e
tr rir k P-'ato                  I et.
Those garm-w r
Too scant, ry dA'   16r Mr. t ,t tmake anything out of. (ome
c me, this w nt d : wi al:l K'      e t  a well-tilled purse, and. I
intend to extratT  ur i r   I'i. pi 'e   pieci. if you will hit
give it to us. F r whira d4  Mr. StaIdlih intendl this house ?
"i~  on t k 'w MXL  e   ."-
ais Irmf. " Y ou     y   t knw  bu yo vinuhave a sunpoSiti :
W ha t is-;i t?
It ma, Mi Lemon. 1' i :ntdlid f r his  n, wthf is epected
home in fit Pir;  t--mrrnw.
All the la ieis at oce  " A sot !Mr. Standish, a  in ! Why
have we nextr seen him?"
Mr. Pur" I wir ou al ilds).  " Now, mr dar hadies. s'ou arc
too hart  r nmwe : I canrnt aeo~unt for this vtunz man
in   h mxilentlti f fromn ) your prtence. Hi tender  ie ars war' [perleap'
plead f  1r 1,1n he was but fI'rt.enm wh je he went abroad  i  voung
to knm whate he was learn Iehind'
Miss Lemoni dropping a pert little curtes). " Thanks fr my
share f the cornhmen.  But has this prodigal never returned.
dunn: tht n     nB ear . to his parental rioif?"
Mr PurS.     But   e Whle Ui mother. that sweet Italian lady,
Mi'%  Lem n.  '' I H i,  mthor  an  Italian!I what  a deccndant  of
Mile; Stand ih marry anr Italian ! The y'oung man's v'asrant propen-
sities are noIt tI Le w. ndlvred at. B Put the tirl. ftolishi things. will
like him non.'111 th' s ftr his foreign airs : it quite sickens me to
think how they '11 set their caps fir him.".
Mr. Purse.  " Y an; Standish has one wife at present. lbut your

STANDISH-
sex. in the kindness of yom hearts, sometimes anticipate the wants
of the future."
Miss Lemon.   "Now don't be satirical; it 's not in your line, my
dear sir. One wife"-
I've seen her. - I 've seen her : let rue tell you about her!
suddenly interposed a young uman with sandy hair. projecting eyes.
and thin figure. She is the prettiest and the lovelies-t woman in the
whole world. The Italians call her Beatrice. and ffI)ow her carriage
to get a sight of her. Who the deuce Beatrici' is I don't know. but
they do. and some great sculptor cii pied her head fir the character.
But the best of all is to hear the bears and ragged children bless
her as she passes.
- They say sej once was poor in Riome herself, ani. I did hear, she
b     tged in the streets.- But anyhow. she made a vw. if she ever
had money, she 'd share it with the poor, and her husband showers
d un 'iiher. and she :os aIbut dintg good. I'vi- sen I'her come
out from a dark street. with a crtwd of children clirgm g t, her skirts.
and kissing her hands. and as she turned to ret into her carriage, the
sunlight fll upin her. and it seemed to #m there was a ;-#olden halo
r tund her head. and I longed to fall down at her feet al worship
her."
Miss Lemon. -It is fortunate that you did not. Mr. Green, or
vi tur friends would have lodged you in a lunatic asylum, instead of
allowing yui to entertain us so ,agreeahly here. Pray compose
yourself: the rewembrance of thi; angelic vision still agitates you.
What is her husband ? worthy of his celestial helpmate"
Mr. Green.    aandi*! Oh. h' 's a capital Pelow, a first-rate
painter, and a  Iiher too.  He was with Garibaldi this summer in
Lombardv: ft uht like the devil, was promoted, wounded. and all
that sort " thing, and now he 's coming home for his health."
Miss Lemon.   -- What ! a hero and a heroine ? Can't somebody
write a novel and put them into it ? "

V

I

I


l4

STANDISH.

STANDISH,- A TALE OF OUR TIES
CHIAPTEp, 1L
----
Jr is an October dy. in tho year 159. a week after Mrs. Browv's
ossipi tea-party. One f the d          da   when, a mit lit
ver earth and sky. giving the charm  f no nr lIght tr ealh familiar
%ject, and making us fe-t with the lotus-ters, that We h y
dnfted to a land ' im whih it eemeth always afernoonu"
The passengers on bori  ne f our hoeward-bounl steamers,
scattered in grioips upon the deck, ar affected in varicu;,- doAzre*ts,
according to their temperaments, by these dnrnv influene
Glance your eye uor this excellent family m. with hi% exactinz
wife and slaugters. It is Jones- f the wel-ncwn firm of Smith
Jones, &amp; Cou. He ha. toiled all h:s life, that they may spend, al
ms;st certainly he shal have hi-s r *,ard, but not from us  And tlP
young man [ide him -one look. and his history is read. A fair,
thoughtful fate, and cosely brttsned waistcoat jealously excluding
al sight of the linen beneath. A clergyman, you sav, attaching t
much importance to forms. and tilnirit arI to admit that threoIS
an truth but that which hseC se. anI any path to heaven but that
which he follows. All true: but look deeper. down through the
bugler of black cloth, into the honest heart beneath feel how
watdesly it beats to its faster sx rk. how it longs to toil, and
Watch , and pray fr all God's children. asking no a     t
approval of itsMaker.
Glance on beyond this dandy, who  oms to fild his moustache and
the effect of moisture upon it. a mot interesting study, as he con-
stantlyrecuris what will as ctsta!ntly uncurl. Pass ev.  this
wpmmus John Bull. who has come out t: see our basted republie,
that he may satisfy himself that where it differs, there it is inferor
to his native land, and fix your eye upon this heap of blanket-shawl;
aMs Juiks Jone  as she prm-enades the deck on Captain Slang's
arm, thinks the eis something worthy o.f  notice here. As she an-
prbaches this Spot She walk more lwlry, glances curiously through
her black ringets. and it is here that she finds the Attic saIt where-
with she seons her jest , the points fPr these Part hian darts she
lets fly as she pas-ses,.
"Adam and Eve in a Paradise of blanket-shawi "exclaims the
far one, $"with thee ceonversingr I fre all time."  Do tell me, Cap-
tain, how long they have been in thige aitim.

A

I

9

"5.30," answers the literal Captain, taking out a very ornate
watch, 'let me see, we finished dinner, say, 4.3i): sherry and cigars,
say half an hour. and then Standish, or Adam. as you call him, ha!
ha! ha! was off to his wife and the blanket-shawls."
Miss Julia Jones. "If they were just marred, it might, in some
measure, be excused, but even then. such displays of affection are in
very bad taste."  Here the lady takes out her vinaigrette, and applies
it to her nose.
Capt. Slang. "Just marriedrindeed ! Why their boy, the deuce
take him, is 1d enough to be in everybody's way. What have you
christened him. Abel or Cain ?'
Miss Julia Jones. "1I wish I were as able to cane him, as I am to
christen him."
This dialogue was rendered more spicy. br the sudden advent of
a beautiful . ov who ran between the Captain's legs. alm  t over-
throwinz him.entangled himself in Miss Julia'L hoop. and threw
himself with a burst of roguish laughter it' the arms 1f our young
clerical friend, awakening him from the sacrifices of the ideal, to the
vexations of the real world. And he receives this little torment with
a grave rebuke, doubtless ? Nothing of the sort. In a moment the
little head' is pressed against that severe-looking waistcoat, its
cherub-like beauty all the lovelier for the dark background. And
when the boy lisps out-
Mr. Stone. I want to hear again about Daniel in the den, -no,
about tJoseh and his naughty brothers. I mean: I like naughty
children bost. And, Mr. Stone, what was that flannel, you said, fell
upofn the land1
The Rev, Mr. Stone patiently explains that the mysterious flannel
(famine', that fell upon the lanl was an absence of bread and milk
for little boy's suppers. And while he ij repeating this beautiful old
story. old and yet always young and froth, which we have heard
with deliht from dear lip;. now perhaps il-nt forever, we will re-
turn to our heap of blanket-shawls. Here is a vounz man whom
we cannot read at a lance. His left arm is in a shn. his complex-
ion shows the effect of confinement and suffering .  wounded
soldier. you suggest: and this idea is borne ont by a  enus mous-
tache, and something military in his be#arin. But what can a
soldier do with those long fair curls, or what cart anybody do with
eyes that are so entirely t of harmony with the curs in cobr., or
the moustache in expression ? Large black eyes that have a well of
fire burning behind them. proud, passionate, and tender. by turns.
In spite of Misc Julia's sarcasms. Adam seems strangely necetful
of his Eve. who is sitting by him. At lat *tandish rouses himself:
1s not this delicious. Ella :# Would it not e pleasant tO glide
in this way through life, never obliged to work. suffer. or even en-
joy ? The moist air curls caressingly about the alm waters. The
fleecy clouds dijspoLve and reunite with a fPoree that is rpose in mo-
tion.    A Wy need we go back to the bustling world, where men and
thin g turn uponi the creaking hinges of self-interest ? Here we have
perfect harmony.
-Music that gentler on the Rpirt lieS
Than tired eyets upon tired eres
Music that 'rn sweet sleep d&amp;mn from the blissful spe.'

I

r


Sn

I

STANt)ISa.

11

STANDISH.
"Oh, you lazy fellow: IWhen we women drop our books or work,
and gaze vaguely into space. we call it idleness, but you artis de-
ceive yourselves with your high-lown wort. Repose in motion, a
mere contradiction! Music that brings sweet sleep down from the
blissful skies: a lullaby: ld nurse will .iait you une any nihtiU"
Is my soldier character, then, less absurI in v ur eves! Sodiers,
too, have their periods of inaction, - whole v ars ofwaitin4 for the
one moment that bri:s them zry ! Cvr d at. vet vur sex is ac-
cused of devotion to the bu'ittn you kn     ~   ~
" Devotion to the butz n. -w  onor curae, seif-sacrizice. - the
;pioit that preP ra impsr;went. t :turc. deazi to sbUnikiLIn or dis-
honor.
.  v "u are an entu11): ci wi       '" 1i1 Stanih. 1k-
ing  w ith  ad iiration up n  hi U  .:  --  a  --v  c i  Jt'vv u.
But why niit lntv the beautiful a wrl! a* the i rr  : I like -;Lin:
myself. s imetimes. A red hit. a rir-. :nyz u :V-:  amIi 9 tIOn.
and tiariiaildi for leader. Still, the arti we1   v&amp; kh. ut  a
for I remember my jAy when I n-ud it we mev Pl; a that tur, dl
T14fr                                        I,
Austnian bullet had Shattre 1. B(A  INz
war: see, Naturt is sm kz"a  .T    i    ,     i
to tell you some 1t  I        I: L  a'2 Art,"
^Not a w rd ; a wariwd-up fancyv must he the next wort thing to
a re-i  'oked  ihsh.  Nature  an I  thi  gl'r sIUnt a  enou  for
me; Iwould $ladj  m shik art frtV fathrs d"p."-
A rtiice you maean, "Silly c:d  Artifice  is naZur  ppite but
ar   why art N nature's very sAuI.'"
A rt the siu of nature, what stuff! An ai -i  rtlt isnture'
high-przt  I suppose, wh   nterprts her a  t,  x -v:nkils to the
multitude. See what an artw  wife I mk I"
A  ery -saucy #one. No.# ,Ella. it
lloww  race sto p:e yNuwant, t       titake ther :iiht, ut I caii't
allow it, -Iteck here."
Th I
"-t That I-am always ready- to do. my pretwife."
N dtrv1sir. I wat nothing but truth from you.
A !ad that1 toudatterirg t  fe spoken where you are inques.-
Be still."
- thought i had heen t ' tdii to please Ton, fotr the last half-hour,"
but  p .rto what you please : nothing
but your o     .wn wax will h. er sati4fy you-
Nor  mu either. darli:e, thoug  yu x  pretend to be  perverse.
But I wiinrt be or hard upon you. You have only to loOk in these
two Imtagnar mirrors I hold etre  ou. Y     are woman enough
ot to object tonthat, I am sure. This nirr ri the actual: all that
is merely external, all that can be  rasp.M by the Sense*: is reflected
in it. exact ini ftorm and vc iliringform y-_ nowembo-escoor
just as language does sournid."m       oukoemois oo,
en don't knw anything of the kid, but I can say such things fast
enoug. Form h ears the same relation to petry, that music does to
miror Form aeals t the intelect, Color to' the heart. Is your .
mairor dim enuhfo, or wilyou have more of my Orpuic
"I will haven you -uei tha iposbeyuknwou
derstand me if vyou c   fthtispssbo:yoenoy"e--

I

I

" There, I will choose to understand now," said Ella. laying her
little white hand in her husband's.  "Where are the mirrors, let me
letk in the second.'
"0ang the mirrors! I will try you with two pictures. One s
Jhnstor% : that Roman view. vou remember. we saw in iS studio.
We cmtnliurrd it with the- real scene, -every tree. every leaf. the sky,
the' cludN. the ruined castle, the stones, the very cracks in each,
the mhss that cover-d thefn. all were minutely copied."
Yes. c-rtainly. I remember; Johnstoa is one of the pre-Raphaelite
ch 1.aIl a v-rv pleasant fellow, too. His picture was all nght,
W a  it  t
All V riht. eertainiy. as far as it went, but it was the rind without
the fruit, the lbwdy without the s,ul. .Now think f that picture we
hae 4f Turner   a simple English landscape, awd yet how different
in it, etfect.
-n ne Turner,
A landscape- for-ground srolden dirt,
The sunshine pained with a squi.'
Sai Lila, laughing
N       -t o to Turner, Hor'e : he will lal ou to Ruskin,
and Iu-Skin will plunge me int unutterable confusion. My ideas
will rve-r become clear again.
An irrovement upon your present state, at l-ast. C infusion of
idelipi es th  sesSi*in of some to confuse. f which I see no
at present : and if this confusion we-re unutterable, I
should e rtainly he the gainer.'
ThiN was .harply poken, but nur Eve is cnscious of a power.,
whtiher h ven-tauht ir a le'n from the wily serpent, her own
sex must di-termin. -we can lyv acknowile     awl bow be-
fI're' it. - a r wr t lull bIv a potent harm the' st1'rrn which she has
int'nti iUV raise. Why' are we such f i's !Why must it be
the same told tale. ,alwa-s rrpeatinn iteif anew !  W hen we see
that su mi iry. appealing. bewitchinz glance, why need we feel a
sudden pang of rerrse : call ourselves brutes, barbarians, Turks,
any opp ribrious eepithet. in short. that pre-sents itself to our imagi-
nation. and fini ourselves ready t# offer, up oar while lives in expw
tion for one sharp speech? So Standish flt, as Ella, after looking
for a nmmnrit in his face, said. in her nu'st caressing tone. -" Now.
don't be anrv - forgive me, I won't be perverse any more. The
truth is. I am rather jealous of your devotin to art, and this makes
me pre tonI t te mire stupid than I am. I do kniw. though I can't
tell wvy. that Johnsto-n's picture had a prosaic iTet, for ;although.
as far I     -d see, it was an exact copy of nature, it never awakened
in me an" of the emotionS which i  fltIt when I I-ked upon the old
ruin its'eif: while our little Turner ives me a fringe sense of har-
mn and beauty, more. I dare say, than the real scene would pro-
du e."
dSandish Iooked delighted. " What a e'lever little sprite you are:
x-ou have darted at cince to the point. where I have been trying in a
clumsy, blunderin? fashion, to lead Till. As I lax- here soothed by
this' dreamy atmosphere into a kind of wakinz sleep, a series of pic-
turoc p&amp;'e-l through my brain, apparently without any volition on my
part. andI when they ceased, I found they had made clear tn me, what
I have ofteu puzzled over, the difference between the actual and

11

I


. 12                         sr.vrsu.
the real. And it will please me so much, little woman, if vou will
see it too, and not call it stuff. A lifeless copy, or, as Vou called it
just flow, a prosaic copy of nature. will be the result, if we begi hy
mitating each form, and matching every tint : but if we first possess
the spirit of the scene. then u e these f-rms and tints, as nature
uses them, f5or symbols of her inner soul. this pictured representation
will awaken the emotions of the scene itself. and the artist. who has
thus united the ideal with the actual, will find he has painted the
real."  It was well fir Ella's patience. that her husband's lecture
on art was here brought to an abrupt conclusi.n.
" Real. papa, are you tellrig about real things. cause I like real
stories:' Mr. Stone has ben tellin.rme about a real bv, wh wore
a co4at of many colors. Mamma, I don't like tLis LUe taek : I want a
coat iif many colors."
A co-at of many colors  BlIss his litlf heart. 'int he ut. be '
fhr turrni' the Bille t-s4me accouNt, h- is.  w. Mat--r Ern t.e
come! t beI. like  :  dl yt, and wh iw-i- 'rit if this h-r lit tf
fl atin: i: 'r. yv  shall hav a 1prry"I ai at a e-ver j skjph W re.
I '11 miake it ftor y u -ut if a kivri Id. tat kivt-red m:thir's btbed.
It s r-d, and blue. and grein, an yixi xw Jb's tears : I sewed
them t :ethe-r myrvsIf. when I wa; a ,;p Cf a ;irl and mother set a
great styer in it :but .you shall h;- it ji-t the'fame. if you will
comeI f with me without a tartnm
But Ernest has no ida of beings   easily br i  : h;- iumpy r at
the approach of his nurse. a tall Yank-- woan, with a fa' f keen
ntelg-nce that did, not 'i-e h-v race. into hi fhi-r's lap, an i,
from this f rtr-ss of def'n-   holdb -Irley with tg   t
Stp minute. Debby : donit e in such a hurrv. I      otSe
how. Jo   p t-ars will mak -me a tsiat vf rnrv&amp;c cltr', r r i x Vi
made J, . tears. If I ciulid 'nly catch a vair  W, that woul nIIaKe
me a beautify eIt. would n't it. papa?  N iw liSten. Dejbv. an I '1
tell you whit Mr. Stone says atout rainbow;.  Once up    a' time,
there Wa% a man named Noah, the sarne N-ah that-lives in my ark,
Debby, an! because he was a  ind iiiman ar-d f-ared God"-
TLzat  a long story, Mastr Ernest': y 1u shall till it while I am
undres;in' you. ec-me."
Ni. no. Debby, I d  .n't lk v-ou: you Win't listen to me, and
I llep here t.mght. may t 1.   pa  "
The little one ne-:tes more c'll in lhis father arms, and ckses
his eves n mimine slumber. while H1rae answ-rs thi% ;ieal with
pasn$iate kisses. evidently agreeling with EsEv, that 1b 11 afIn
his prip-:-r atin-pace.  A mrntnt mtri- ad veal sleep would
hae tn 1-upn the httle 1ov. when1 marma speaks in that tone of
playful authority wiech is so readily ley- yil  children,
-un. n  sn : the little birs hve ituied their heads away
under tin-ur xwm- and httle~ Esty must be tucked away in his hanm-
mock.   On'- tnw . three, an I axyay, liefor  Deb--ralh atches x-ru.
And Erne t ,ings from his father'; lap. s' reaming with deli-ht as
Dbrah iIa'.-s him down the companion way.
Te arist -and his wife- are left to maze upon the sun sinkin: to
rest in the bosom of the ocean, and :o think of the many lessedl dams
store for them : days which, if not as eboudless as this, ~" "
bepales-  to  th e,  fr  A hrtor  xil  m eet thv  com ing  ii

SToNDISH.                       13

Oh, beautiful young love. sanctified by marriage, knowing neither
coldness nor distrust! While time and human frailties leave you
undimmed, you make the heart you dwell in a paradise.
CHAPTEII .
Brr o-ur travellers reaeh the-ir. native land. the reader must
know a few facts in their past lit. which will probably always remain
a mystery to Mrs. Brown's muf-ts.
Beside' the vazr'ant pr pensities attributed by Miss Lemon to an
Italian origin. Horace had inherited trom his mother a love for art,
which funnd full development when, at fourteen. he went abroad to
,preraare. in a German gy'mnasiumn fr the Universty h  ideberg.
That tram  student lift. -hw it   uited him! Swrd-dulI. sere-
nade, suprs. -he took part in allt    Once only had he returned
Is- his ihtre  sinee he first Ieft it, and that was a visit of bitter agony
t-' hirm. t-arin:: if his mother's illness, he reached America in time
t ri ct-ve her biessin: and lazt farewt-Ii. We none of us know the
vahn  of a mother's love. until we lose it, but. in Hora-e's case a
di I tie was 1roiken. Basiide a rnother. he lost the only friend
whI fully undeirstid and felt with him. Her Italian ble ii flowed in
hi xvin-z her tastes for roetrv. music. and painting, burned as passions
in him. While with ready Lmoathy v  eul enter into the pursuits
f his father and step-4ister, Phe source -f his high-rt happiness
w- nnf-It br them, It was whYn his another's dressing roon door
ela-dt upn all but him, that hi; real life-i emed tl 1iin. Then,
tinzin: himself beside her, eit- xv ii ptur out his fe-verish aspirations,
his v-aze longings. and h-r wmpathy had power to make thu-rm calm
and cl-ar. Then sh- would Id--scril 0 to him thse gblrius master-
piece of ancient art which were as housetld -ds to her. until his
yieun- cheek gow-d with a deeper flush than he. antd his imtgination
received firms u f lbeasutv which could n-v fade away. During his
Lrgabsence, she hiad never faileil to zix'e him her la t thoughts at
niht, her first words f le in thie  ornin' and itfnet a witeek these
sh-t wxre sent to lim, Nthing seaned her watchful "sre. She
exc-d Ithe noiier parts if hio naturi-. sear-ed him agains-t his faults,
wayrnIn  him tint a that whi-b otn ri- the highest. may also fall
the I "t. s    the artist I -r f-v thei -'-uti   i  eithu-r elevate
it posse-sor aIo0#- the iarthlx f itNto Th-at piritual type -f Cbeauty
iih can only Ii tAinly shuli hr-re. r. Iirin on imi-rely mortal
o    may pluriz  hirn into the no-t rvtined. and therefore the most
dar ru1s se-nsuailit.,
Tihe fillies and infliseretionqs of lboxhio-I w're his, lbut lie knelt by
his mothr-r's dyinz lbedI a pure and ;inlu'ss as when he b- t her side.
Had Providence all'ow'ed h'er r -mr-Jin: influence to continue, his
life would- have been far differ-nt. and our talc unwritten,
After an illness brought on by- mntal suffering. Standliih again,

I

I

4


4a

STANDISH.

STANDIs.

15

crossed the ocean, meaning to return to his studies at Heidelberg:
but he was attracted to Italy, his mother's birthplace. and here he
lingered. His letters at this time were short and unsatisfactory,
showing an alternation of somei strange excittett with the deepest
desponiency. More than a year helped bef r- ho -ilded to his
father's wishes and returned to Grnoany   Her- ho finished d his
studies, and then prevailed upon his indulgent father to let him
remain abroad and devo te himself to  naintinz.~
While spending a winter in Rome. he notice  vu '.r'e:rl  me-
times ketching frorn nature, sometlm% driving with'au imxvaIl. whose
form seendl lent with zrief rather than ane. Th-r was a tndlernoss
in the girl's 4e vti n to he?- father. tha rtu-cli H.  v- rv un'h.
Then. to. tshe was beautiful, and  ur artist ruu- t. B  ir"ien if a
graceful tigure and lovely face gar.u isre valuA. in hi , -y  to the
tiial love th-y rIl-dMlied.t
A raw-b.on.ed1 Yank.e woman. at the same tih-, atrt   hi. admi-
ration yr the  e-r brgains 1.: male in selling paint- i .reens,
fans, 1t-knmark!. awl other fancy artib-  H  is  k 'ye  n --
tected a conrtion bew-een the viw- painted    n th  fains andI
screens, and ti- sketche-s he aw  y th  yun- zirl takin:. She Was
poor, then. She sold the e thin..  r buy c-raftrts for h r father.
lie at once lboughrt up the whie .k-k.h' and hired aont  - ona
more, at dboubfle their former price. Bit this did tr  A:  rn
The frail ymon:r cr.at':re was wearin: a-. Itnut in t.ki:  r- tf a
father, who. s.,r d in sme consumi.:  rief, was oi.   unon-
scious of it. lie went to the Amnerican  ?n   e d their ad
history, nd btairne-d an introduction to rthem. .lr. Dalt n  dine
was incbie: his proud .;piri had lrbroken  iei   r th. .h k.f a
brother's distlonorable e .,ut. and he hai vainlv saerifi-  his for-
tune to saVe at nanme until nW unsi-,l Ella had ihr :  a .ndl
property from her mther. awl D.1o.rah. her faithful 'servantL  .-  n  -
economical in husfandin2' to the but advan tag?. the income this z'ave
them, and. by the sale of Ella's fancy arti'bs was able to Mad th-ose
luxuries which habit had mad' es ntial to Mr. Dalton. But nurs,-
ing by day. reading her father t- sleep at night, and saitthin- time
from her own rest to w rk  n her little painting, wepe Pmands
upon her strength which 4she could! rt much Lnzer hnv irne.
when Horace appeared, to lizh'tn her latiirs. B- a quickness of
perception that seemed like iuiti ;I. toerndal h-1 invalid's
tastes and whims.
Was Ella going to read! thr newpapr tA her faster : he knew ex-
actly what Mr. Dalton wanted It  ---r. Mu  ,
" Giv- me the guitar ;vyu ar-  i -
"' No. imd .j'           i. -lp
toev-u arev:Tvo,
' Pard 1.mi . yr-ad           f-4r j  -yr,-  last  r h.  it was  late
beor yur father fell asleep."
With a blUsh. '' How do you kn-w ? /hV. DA rah "-
'' 11 d- ro ni-ed. Deborah. Min. ) i Dalt  to '- n1 - when vyou are tired,
and bar.- u.-ed vyour vi ice t -' nueh.- Gire m thn- :uitr :' uo hare
nev-er heard mue sing, and may' like- it : if nt, toll no .-.: I hav~e no
sensiti-e-nes about my mrnie~. b-ut I wa±rn yu if .o d no.t aue
the set of Swiss sketches I harv' promni.-d~ to .hGxv Your father to-
morrow, you will put rme sadly out of humorr"        -    -

I

Standish played a simple Italian air he had learned from his moth-
er. His voice was a rich teiior, highly cultivated; and such was the
expression he threw into the wild impassioned words, that Mr.
Dalton was for the moment charmed into forgetunss of his gie,
and his daughter showed her inexperience by the foolish thought,
how tender a man's heart must be, who can thts sing of love. But
the greatest aid to Ella was the magical influence our hero's presence
exerted over lhpfans and screens. Did she leave her work-fora
time. she was sure to find it finished on her return. All those weary
hours of toil at night could now be given up, and the color came
lack to her cheek. and the dimples began to play again around her
sweet mouth.0-
A  for Horace. yielding himself. with his usual impulsiveness, to
the charm of Miss Dalton's society. he allowed ever thought and
wish to centre in her. Cold or preo.ceupied must have been the
heart that could have resisted such lve : Ella's certainly could not,
and. on his deathbed. Mr. Dalton. won by Standish's devotion, gave
him his daughter's hand without a fear for the future.
CHAPTER         III.
Tir next morning. the steamer entered New York harbor, and the
day after, our travelling party. Horace, Ella. little Ernest. Deborah. the
Yankee nurse, and Paul. the Italian valet. set out for Boston. Paul
and Deborah were fair specimens of their respective races, their de-
votion to their master and mistress forming the only point of re-
sembLance between them. This verr devotion, too. was as different
it kind as their characters. The one servipg with implicit obedience
and dog-like fidelity a superior whom he revered, the other using all
the powers of a strong will and subtle intellect in the service of her
employer, until that service became the dearest object of her life.
Standish was silent, absorbed in thought. only rousing himself to
answer Esty's questions. repeated every fifteen minutes.
 What time is it, papa ? Are we most there How far have we
come ? Oh. look, look. papa: what place is this?"
Ella can hardly be said to. think : confused images of her past life
chase eatch other through her mind. The earliest recollections of
her childhood, the touch of a s oft hand which she fancied to have been
hor mother's: the boardinsc-hol life. with its little hardships and
trials: the stale bread for the pupils. while the mistress rezales her-
self with hot rolls and sausages. before their hungry eyes; the cold.
dreary hours when the little girls were pushed shivering into a co rner,
to make room for the older misses, wh' chattered round the stove:
as she grew older, the rivalries. the jealousies, the heartaches, with no
one to counsel or soothe her, until solf'-depenadencc and Ief-control
taught her sunny temper to triumph over all her schr 'f troubles:
the dreadful period of her uncle's failure and disgrace:; her father's

r

4


K

16

STANDLSH.

F

17
0.

STANDIM.

Ernest gravely scrutinized him and then slowly replied, "yes, -you
are like my papa, though you have put four on your curls to whiten
them. - and you 've got blue eyes instead of black."
Well, then, since you acknowledge the relationship, search my
pockets and see what you find there.
Estv did not wait for a second invitation, but plunging im his
hand, drew out a box, and at once exclaimed, "Scldiers, as I'm a
man ! "
Rightly guessed, as you are a boy. Why Deborah, he does
credit to y(our training; no Yankee could have been shrewder," said
AMr. Standish.

sufferings and ill health: their voyage to Eurdpe, the struggles and
difficulties of her life there. Then, with a thrill through her heart,
came the remembrance of her first meeting with Horace, the dava of
friendly intercourse which followed, when the sun seemed brighter
and the air mote balmy: her sudden wakening to the consciousness
that she loved and was beloved. Their happy married lH, travelling
from place to place, enjoying all that was most beautiful in nature
and art, until Horace's campaign in Lombardy: then those months of
anxiety, when tales of his reckless daring constantly reached her,
and made it almost a relief when she was summoned to nurse him:
for, though severely wounded, his life was in no danger.
"Boston!- Boston, at last!'" cried Esty, loud enough not only
to rouse Ella, but the whole car full of passengers, as the long train
swept into the station.
Mr. Standish's carriage was waiting for his %ton, and they drove to
that much-talked-of house in Beacon Street. which had bee'r repaired
and furnished for the prodigal return. Mr. Standih came to the
door to receive them, pre:.ed his sn to his heart, then kWd Ella
on the forehead.
That kiss was for his sn'5 wife : as thv entered the hal. tihe i4ht
fell upon her luzhing face and gli2ining e'yes : he turnI andIthew
his arm round her, saying,  r my sweet hill, this onu . k as made
rue love VoU.'
In the mean timP, Ernest, impatit tx 1e notice h tu:rd at Mr.
Standish'; coat-tails. exelaimig. -kiss me. to  grandp;ti
His grn dfather seized the little P'S!w and gazed at hitrm earn-
estiy.  ' Your nwther - eyes, fL r               A -  have them in  n  d
color: but yours are like vol'an e, while Ernest'. h;     her
heavenly expression. But where is Anita ? he has been imnpatietly
watching 5or your aral,
I can :ellv ,ou. answered I rac. As we drove up. sheM wnt to
give a last look to our r'  : then, seeing that a Certain wiw1iw in1
the back staircase. nsiill to all otLr ye-s, had [ber left unwa hed,
she ran to the kitchen to sMre orders abkut it : there she found the
cOCA putting saLeratus into some cakes, and We all knuw Anna's
pejudices"
".And some of us Horace's" Iroke in a clear, somewhat Sfharp voice,
as a little, compact figure moved into the room noiseles, andyt
with great rapidity, adminitered a Iox on Horace's ear, as he
stooped to kiss her, ermbr'aced' Ella, and then turned with womanly
iretinct to Ernest. snatched him up and covered him with caresses.
But whether Esty was anrgr at her salut     to his papa, or
whether it was one of those fits t perv'rsity that are apt to seize upon
c en when they are wished t b4are their prettitest. certain it is,
that hetruzre in t 4her arrN "rvi  let rne be '  t re be!--
char     ere ineterp  ed anxisf r the :   I Ihavis of her
charge.   Esty, this is papaq si-t'r,. y ur wn aunty
she de n't Va  bit lke     str.ele2 teD             rt lbw,
d"No~ moeth don't. iuttered Deborah in n asiie, and pru-
Mr. Standish now took Etv gently on his kn. "Cm        se
t ungster, if I  e k like p - a  Do yo   b  nle.: n  Carn veet
;ndy     ''epapa?"'yubeeeta Ia                          or

I a few days the house in Beacon Street began to assume a home-
like air: fine works of art were scattered over it, the boks arranged
in the library. and Mrs. Standish's morning-room littered with the
pretty implements of woman's idle industry.
Anna whoe energies were only stimulated by the care of her
fat-r's house, the superintendence of a school of design, and the
president of a society, that clothed the naked on the principle " we
are one flesh, after all, and need one flannel, with a proper wsens of dif-
firence in the quality," -found time to viit her brother's establish-
mnit't daily. giving Ella manv useful hints, and seeing much to find
ult with.
Now aV wisest course will be to acknowledge that M.s. Standish
was not a good housekeeper, and appeal to the generosity of my
femal" readers, to overlook this deficiency in our heroine.. To at-
ttnpt to conceal it were to cast a slur upon the penetration of that
sex, which is never at fault, when the defects of a pretty Woman are
inqetin
Te.      it confessed, she preferred her husband's comfort to
cleanin; and scrubbing. bright sunihine to an unfaded carpet, and
the dut 'f an open fire to all the nicety of ffirnace heat.
One morning. as Annatered her brother's door, she perceived
Paul c'arrvin:. thle furniture frontlte drawing-room, and placing it in
the entry' ''Paul," she exclaimed. " what Italian trick is this ?
Put that furniture b ack at once : this carpet must not be swept, I
will Thow you how x rnoemve the lust from it with a wet eloth.
As the Sipmra wills " rtpdIed Paul, with a must submissive
bow, Iut he quietly continued his work.
Anna then flew up to Ella's ro.n  " WX~hy. Ella. while vou are sit-
tinz readin: here, that stupid foreigner is turning your house upside
dw itn.
Ella smiled and said, " I thonht I leard some disturbance
below, but depend upon it, he has directions for all he is doing Paul
never acts' without " - - orders.
This yielding u:      thority to Horace did not suit Anna's

4

CHAPTER IV.


STANDLSI I19L

notions of female supremacy. and she angrily answered. "My dear'
sister, you are mistress of this house, and nothin- should be done
without your orders."
"But. of course," Ella gently replied, "my orders would be the
same as my husband's. if it were a matter I knew anything about;  my
ignorance, and not my modesty. kept me silent. Horace said, at
breakfast. that the boxes containing his painting materials ani half
finished pictures had arriv-d. and he must try the re-orn. and se'leet
the one with the best li:rht for his studio: and ve-ry glad I f.-lt when
I hearIdithe noise in the parlor, fir, though it is a beautiful ro't1. I do
not feel half as much at horne in it, as in the libr-arv, or dinins-r. o"
inna stood fr a nmnment, motionless with h-rror: th.5tisl-damtask
couch-s., anll arra-chairs, turned out to make r -'um for pait-p4ots
varni-h bIrushe.. and easels. Then. suint'ut-- en-r i  f r the
emerge   -. - I see h-- t rnaa:' : t-re isa lar- r -Ni  the
attic, i-t nuth siz- of the lrawing-rn   'im: the light in whi-h il r ha-
'hly- b *ter. -orae -hall havc- this fr hi; stili-. D t diturb
y e   I'll at to it" atd awar she burnt ri
Sit'- lld th'- servants to her aid. All '-anex c r the faithful
Paul, who ,tardIin  sentry  s-er the furniture now e b-:-1 in the
hall, r- V :--d tlo it allow it to he returned Ito its place xith out his maas-
ter's .nI"rs. D#ebrah was mot zialus in Itelpin: t 'arry up the
boxes and unpacking th-nt. and didi h-r Iest-s to irnitat-, in ithat hare
attic r---r te arrang-uWert of the pleaant Roman -tdI f-n she
heartily ar-'Ir t wit Miss Standish. that it was apity t- litter up the
dra uing-rm 't4 - with pieters and such rubbih like."'
M -anvhilv, th- mistress ofJthe hou-e. as soon as she hald cIvered
from Is-hr-fewildermcnt. ran to the uppjer -t-ry to r'rn'rate but h-n
soft etes were disr'-zy 1.4 lby Miss Standish and unht-arl iy
the bu-tlin: Debrah. Slit-ereurne.-l t l- 'witnro  and wxxalkel up
an'i d-n. urneay aher 'wn       t ctnlutr, an-I  ct.  t al isto" how
she cou"dhave resist- eI her sister-in-law's interferenn- with--ut of-
fence. Mi-s Standish, looking in to say g  -I. ki-- -Ella no-t
affectionar-y.  - -Cm, - 'lt-r pr. tti-n- sa d'ear: if my I r-then
re)monstrat. o-n his n-rum. st'ndl Itim to m-. I'l makc- it al rijt''
Mrs.   ta±ndish ebansI It- mornin:: dre-s. and ht-onCdto the
library t watch fo'r her husband's r-tuw, determin0-dI to t-li him rh
whole   ry,n andI ask his wishes as t nhr future b-havimr t--wards
his sister.  lnfrtunately. visitors cane in, and whil.- littenin: to
thc-ir sT-th C'mm1n111pla.s. she hard Standish's quirk tp inthe
entry-.   bhTd he would come t her, iut in vai.I I1 Went at
once t to idrinawirn-rom, which h- expet! to fid tnfrtt n j
into a studi. impatitertt ts sk-tch a beautiful ehild, heh i Injt seen
phyim     the mloV. Tt- sight o'f PaI srandin; bv the tfriur- in
an attu-I- of de4-an.- ebad th chtil1' Iri4rht imaz-- awas-
"Wby, h'ow 's dI N Paul. -th- r' mo nt-t ready sv f '"' -
T   i;.r muEr ask the ladv: se has cant- I 'tl V   'ael
and all y,r hs    t, i , som  uppe,  n. and. if I wull ha.
lowedl it. this furniture w-ould1 have Ibeen put in the 'irawine-ro -r
again~                                                      ~
thsLady ! what lady ? You cannot mecan s-our mnistrns s has done
-- . Sifrrtr: the Sitnora's orders are always those of the Signor.
It was the Signor's sister,"

Herac K v fished with anger as he muttered, "Anna, what in-
terferce, - jul%! UK her. and if Ulla had the east spirit. she would
net hav' alf wed it."  Then aloud:  Cnome, Paul, the ladies have
had iter way. nrw we will have ours. That upper room will be the
s-ry  jdr for thi furniture. You left a couch and an arm-chair in
the drawins-r   .
That riit- now lot us carr up a load of this furniture, and
bnriz  owni the pictures.
The change was on male. The damask sofas and inlaid tables
lokl-d sad zly 4ut of phe i tile attiechabernilr: but when the plaster
(st ai1 rndmodels wer scatteredl ''vcr the --velvet carpet : the pictures
piasd anainst the walk. the box  of colors in their places. and the
rich lrapries of the winbows arranged so as to let in the light hut
in "ne dirctio 't ie dlrawirn-roon had beme a rost luxurious studio.
HI: re disisiedil Paulh wl  ii'satiulid with his work. hut nt with
hiulF F   r th.- first tine ie his marriage. he was arnrv with
1 w1s A       ;t-d by1iI ith- windu.w, with a frown o-n his tar-. Ella
a tle . laid her hand iin his arm. ai I-kingup besetchingly
sal L -- Inudeed1. HI' rar.14 Idi nt d4 it.
 Wa his bittrer arsiwe r. -- swh'- had not courage enough
t. prEvent it. wisull hardly venture t dir.
Eli. hurt Iy his harshns. burst into t'as, an hi]I. t oo angry to
""th' hr. ,a 1 yet unable to bear the slight f her ri took up hi
ha t aI I ftte hu.'1*-
1nnir tone came andI pa-L          ratings an hour. Ella cor-
e~ldd tE  H'ra e hadI gon. t' Ais          e fater s. and sat down,
with Ety-..tt a ruort wretched meal. S4e was too sad to eat, and
even!-r Ernr--r was s- busyx ndrin: whyis papa did nt )Lome. that he
sent awaty1 his plate -twilt h  dinner alnt untast, I and when the
(dsl-trt wa bonI',bt in. ate in s%--il   a ht1e 1  p'aiiinz with plIms5
i it wh     # i Jarah hird male on purlp se Yoj please him. All the
afternt  lla and Ern- I- ;ked I a  f the window. .r Itoned fo.r
that qul-k. impt-atient -stp n the parent, they Iith knew So well.
At lat, D  erah caime and b.- r-in th lit, I''oy f4 zt the nursery.
whero, in  pite of prtestations thet lh  was net huncry. and
W0110 l at-tI "-t' * t' sleep nttil papa ki--d .r 'otr :  d mizht. he ate a
fill bw1 'f bread adl milk. ant a dp s' lumnl'r so.n relieved him of
his sharet 'f tr--ubh
Ella cnt.inudl ti watch andI tliVtn. niW . el- vn: still. he did
nti  cn me  A-San'lsh alway'- 4 trri-d a de t tch kLy. 4he sent
tie ''rvan~t  t tI. I. an1 at last w-nwithjl anxiet and with a vaNue
-1 that hr pale f      miht  U - r-proach t-. him at lis late
h nr' Ch  ' thrv herself u-p ni the  u  in her dlrem i-room.n a'- fell
aEe.-h ws- -tarh-d1 by' emeti :- fi and- em.'nf ltn h-er hands
andI tar'-  A -i  ius 1d r tilEd t r  r- n. an 1 rnows tuy awake. ,,he
saw she wa- c'sver'd wi' thi--v Bwr- at  1that- hriu anli. b -nding
over the cI(u, hel  a tea  r1 e. juI to ry t '  at her.  She sprang
up -
Oh, IIre  youn will sp.-'il thm :4   -INely iBwcr nheths,
ros' s. rd! i---fmirtnes " -
N' Y':r i'w.-ns. inde.-~. little quarrnne thing : why shoul'l you
k I would bing: tl'wers homn' t y-I . ntipp' f '" arnd he threw

18

$TANDISH.

I


20SDS  STANDIs.        2

down those he held, but it was to catch her in his arms, and kiss
again and again those tear-stained cheeks and quivering lips.
No Lover's kisses were ever more ardent or more magical in their ef-
fects : her face glowed with blushes, and her little dimpled mouth
smiled again and again, and at last laughed out so merrily, that he
let her go. telling her she had no sentiment in her, or she would not
prefer laughing to kissing.
I like a little of both. and I am sure I have had a great deal of
one, ensOugh to last me for " -
Half an hour. perhaps. Now pick up your flowers. I have a
story ts tell you about them:-W not yet, though, So doTIn't look so full of
curioSity. I, .who have betn sclding you for lauzhinr, have a still
more unsentimental want to cotnfess: I want some dinner. Not a
mouthful have I tasted sines: you drove me out this nm-ori-ing: so, as a
punishment for that freak of tempe-r, you must go down and get me
something to eat."
Oh. that s nice, said Ella, clapping her hawds.
What: that I went with--ut my -inner ?  Yu'Ve not grown very
aiables yet. I see!
SN-, n: vou kns-w whnat I ru-an, inetit xve- are £rinig to have
a little supper ite-etht'r. Youtak-: Vor guitar and I'11take my
dw t' and wc '11 wake sitmethingrn- petical even of C -kin; and eat-
'wiftly the couple ran down stairs. their spirit. n)w that those
rrsf estran     er   ver, rismi.t toir- wildest
g-ay     Elv.  a exarnined    . aw cried ot triuriphantly' -
'" l    iracTe, your       er    howv Pfrtunat- y-ou were not
at hin1: to eat the cold. stinty' thi,. n-w I will olw v-u how
oysters should be cooked-
" And I. how th-y should be eaten
Ta  - tugwife. pllin: -off litr undersieeve. anid unlasping her
b    lnts. dr-w tut the kitchen tatIblt : sprea-i a tint'. tamuask cloth
upon it : produce a lbotti- -f sparklin: lHock, prepared so-ue sand-
wiches. drs-sed a sponi:-eake with her ti-w-rs as a c-ntre ornament,
cut tht shees of cIld roast beef: f-i: ne-itr bread, butter, salt,
plates nmr iwme-lasses. an i then prseededl to broil the oyters most
dehea'sl. She did all this with an airv grace. which made these plain,
doetw i'duties si charring, ven to he-r fastidious husband. that be
watcht'l her adunirimgly-
-Lla. what a pretty pitur- you voul Imake as cok. but I
shu t'Ihave: t tok Vur hair p unre a -ap. There. vour curls
av    wpt tovr   e 'ri-rn aiN  wod      yu think wIll wan: to
"at hb. syst'ers '
- I kn-sw s'mb-sdy that wi IA glad enou:Ih t eat th uyters
and the scurNs ti. P -4 wi1 t im : "a  the amateur c-osk Lent again
Iariitdy over the- gri iiIn  -
- X- H I will 'onset :t's wave any litle- prejudices I rmay have,
andI tastet y;' ij-y sters. I-ut tie cur'V -ca'dtchuing -ne and exsamning
it, - less use-ful than the pipskin th- swin-he-rtI :,ave the princess,
um-r- i aly the i-ill tsf fart- of isur o-wn suppe r: btnter. oyster shells,
andI s
Tih- supp- r ias cc- ked and dished. Sc-ated at the table, they ate.,
rank. gavec t-ast an I 'sang songs. Certainly those kitchen walls

never echoed to mirth so refined. and I doubt whether it ever did to
anything more simple and heartfelt. At last there came a pause;
their merriment had expended itself, and Standish throwing his arm
round his wife's waist and drawing her head upon his shoulder, said
in a tone half-playful, half-earnest -
" If toasted cheese has destroyed old friendships, and hard, salt
beef led to suicide, as the Reverend Sidney says, it is but fair that
sandwiches should heal quarrels, and broiled oysters make life sweet
again. Now Ella, I have hen very unkind -and unjust to you. -
keep your hand from my mouth. it has ben kissed enough - and I
mean to ctnfess my fault. though I know it will be useless to ask
your foriveness. People of your disposition never ftrgive those
they love."
Horace, what can you mean ? I am bad enough, but not so bad
as that."
Exactly as.]ad. and I will prove it. Since vou will not let me
finish my entence. Did yvu fe.: anry with nit:to-day, or blame me
in the lat
4'ertainv not :, hw cmll I  It was I who had offendo4d qo."
''There vo have cnvie'tel yurslf. How can vou forreiv those
v iIovye. If vou cannot believe thev have wrsnzed you f .As for
myself. I am neither angelicallv nor satanically unforgiving: my
simple human nature i, apt to take off'nce, and, when my passion is
pas-ad,. as ready to fir-rive. It i, perhaps. sorpe excuse for my
anzer tO-dayv. against v-u whA did not deserve it, and Anna who
did. that I'havt such a vivid recollection of the utfferings of my
borhood. when my sister, havin, taken upon herself the whole man-
azenent of the hour i.lo,   to lead a 'vastating army of scrubbing
brush's and dustirs thrinuh m ur rm r and. as she class'd. under
the zneTral heiad of dirt. all rm  m  t valable possessiers. even my
father's liberal allowance culd ri t zctver my lrses. ind I was
driven   Gvermanv. TI iafntisn f mine, conf#ound it. makes
a heaven or a hell'fori n,.  t at mv will. but at tha of the spirits
that posa m re : and Ia nP-' rlsthripe of inferpis ther' ojend for
mot tst-dar : I. tuc'kedl un ini th,- thurdI st'rv. Anna ruling below,
rnakins a %lars of my rpd1i i    l and! turni: EST into that artifi-
cial cinjIund! f sItihnew awn :-1 bohavir that maiden: aunts
est-em I ~But n-sw f r nyv try a ot: thflitwe'r,.
It wvas zri--wing dlark. and Tiril I wai1 lk-l :n. .v-ryv moment making
the ditan r rr ter Ibetwesn m  awl the :-1 a:l wh could
have charnd Aall these evil tih  :hts away v rul I have let her.
I had passed Ithr-ugh Jlamnaica Plain and w1 2  mssuting a hill. when
I har a fd:Yrt ronan. I topptl and litnsl: aztin I hitarsI it. A
yr faint s un I that st-emel to s''roe frim ths  thor ,ide 4 a board
fence on mr right. T'h fence was hich. anI I tri I to persuade
mst-lf it was nothing: lIt the win Iif hin a n the tree. when
I di -inctlv heard a~  ild' vi 4  call -- father "and that sound
Iir "ght little Esrv t rmy min~ 1. andi the sp1rits t it paJssc~esI meC
fled discomfnite-d at his pres mne.. After a fiw mnomosnt%' st-arch, I
fiur I a milestone at the cectner of the f nu. 4teppsin 5 nf which I
climbi1d' ur in] dro pphd down rn ths oth- r Ide. us-it' I co-uld see
nlobin: lot tres. 'ans! dai-knes.s mnA-- vilble b':eson them. - I groped
my; wayi in th dirt 'ti-sn from-i wich fth- ms anl5s inme. ani. when I

It

W,

20

21

STM  ISm


14

22

SNWDI$H.

STATUS.

became accustomed to the obscurity, I saw a bo about twelve years
old lying under a tree. His eyes were closed, but as I lifted him
in my arms, he opened them and uttered a cry of pain. A narrow
path led from the tree7 which I trusted would take me to the house.
It wound about in a most Rosamond-like labyrinth, but just as my
strength and hopes were giving out, I caught sight of a light and
came to a little gate and gravel walk. My step upon the gravel
caused a window to open, and a sweet voice ca.led, "Lorenzo. Lar-
rou come, and is Frank with yoiu ?'"
"When I reached the poireh, the door opened, and a voung
woman appeared. The lizht frm the entry fell upen me ali ny
burden. and she turned pale, and clung to the 'd'rfr upport.wiI
I hastened to say. Do ntot be alar-med : the chill La% 'nly mrained1
bis ankle in cliniinz a trec,' and the boV murmured, -Lever mind,
mother, I *m not inuchi hurt.
At this, the poor mother burst int" tears exclairain  - Ny dar-Ia,
Frank. [thought vu were dead I' and then slf threw h' r art arouj
h    r 1n. and kissed him. as  as yu ki!s Estvi''
What. IHrace. and he all the time in vyNur armsn
Certainly, nmy love-: and nloW I think of it, she di" nut :n arrMI
round me. and one rund her son, but The only kissed fim. Are v u
very much .hOcked ? Wait till we see what you will d to the an
that tells you Esty, whirnyou believed 'lea. is alive azai--
I sha nt think it necessary to put ay artus round him.  But
never mind : what did you do with the bv ?-
I hid him  n hi 'ntiter's bed. and dThrel to summn a doctor.
The youns woman thanked n. anti Iaid her lubanl hd ,1bgone t
New Y'rk. The wasexpeting hin b'ack that evening. butt he ad not
'ofme; her fAheWr was cotuined t it ron. with rheunatnm;   that,
ti 'ugh   1 s'rV t  ntIS;UC
thouh1soy t     _givnwso ruchtroule, she !had n1 1hle  4h
o it : r. rye ieSSher
gave~ ~ ~~~~~al" meD.Pyi' drcin  n ff I 'started4.-Thedctrws
out : I ait-d foQr him,. and he drove met.ba.ck in his aiead
the way tJA me the hist rv fthe family. TheIv's fth'r bre 1:i
r'omantie na nie 'of Lorenz fRanchari. lie was an'Italian. hd 'l L
ain 'p-ra inr:r. hut having falk in l 'e with sweet Matr _Ned, the
gardener' daughter, he" za'e up the sIte, lecame a inusic tsa
marine Mar1v, an i ttled down in her lath.er's rden.
Dr. Phvsi' fund! the b'Vs  :: irken, 'rt it was not  a  d altrae-1
tre: he set it. and gave him at 'piate.  Thel doctr 'was to 'rin'
m' a tar as Jamaicai Plain. and w  rs t' p '. when the m'the
.are in. brime your tiwvers. and sail. - TaKe these, sir:th-v
are all I have 1' fiv'u. but G  1 will rewarl von ftor v-'aur kin'I-
no   t  me:  ~and! Iht4r grat-ful  t-r4 fiI  up- nt the  fwe rs.  ant d kept
th'enm fresh and lv' :y. as you se-- thorm nowxv
-m my t      tory   ae, and it   tin' you and I were at d an
hour and a halfagstj'
When th  yug eoupb- -:ank to 4- nhat it h.terin
anl of uach ha'] a good res-in -'a r n  r i. IIittr. hii rt'%- I-
never again zto be angry with hi wie. a' I Ft. Leve'r tt give hIrn
hu-ta-d c-as to' be an-ry- wIth hrn.

23

C CHAPTER V.
THE last chapter ended with a resolution of Ella's to withstand all
future interference on Anna's part.
How fa-rei it with this resolution of our heroine?  As do all of
the auth rs and most of the reader's: it was broken several times,
bt-fore- it was kept once. In justice to Mrs. Standish, however, we
must say. Ah- has yield-- oni p 'ints where her own comfort was alone
cme-rz'd    And naow that w- are mAIlilng with the scales of justice,
Anna ua t e -me in f r her share. This tale has given, and must con-
tut iv-. an unfavorable view tif her character, for it only speaks
if her izn-ili n tO her br'n their's family. She was a reformer. one of
he w- x  ' duty it i to discover the diseased spot and cut it sharply
away, 1efir- the whole nma  Ibecmes infected: and such never appear
t1 adt-ythe:-I  ireside, fir they apply the knife of reform to many
dir aws tha ±t a littl4love and frbearance wx-ull cure..  Whenver
a            Sm arint f suffetig. wr4#nk. r poverty-, reached her ear. she left
the c ni rtP Ion er m-, ant went to inquire into it. The blasphe-
risf        tIf i---I the lathsmnt'ess if disease the horrors of intemper-
alto' aw! tarvatif, could not turn her Lack. She cheeked sin and
reis-id want.gave wtrk to the idle and educational to the ignorant.
Htr lhariti  were liberal and judicious. but there was ont form of
charity wlh! ha 1vet to learn.-to believe others might be right, though
th'-V lifs-rd I from herself. T wards Iliortce she had always played
the patrt :f ee'I r sister. restraining. sch  hng, ani often needlessly
thlwarrnm- him, wiltut urderstaning his vtuiar character. And
asil wh hl trat-d the boy. she nxvo wished to treat the man.
tatliih. P aring that D-I-rah's cOnStant attendance upon Ernest
Sitld maks- him t   dept-rndi-nt, hail iniste that when uI s,lessons
wnr- svr he should I- allowied to go alne to the Beacoi Street
Mall, in fr- t of the house. to rla' th-re. On father' day!iv. Ella saw
him se't  1ut with many fears, through th knew 4he Col uldepend Upon
his lr-miw-. not tI leave the pronile'd playground.  But whn she
Pun i r-turned in safety, with his spirits exhilarated by his play,
her f- wased.
tn-' mrni:r. The was pr-act:!ing sinm' n"w music in the library.
w lIAna Iburn1t in!  -t'e rtm draimg Ens t bv the arm. and
lIJ   .- - - Wi-re's H1rae' ! I want my brtaer t we the re-
-   "   '  - it: ::i. -re is my n'pht w Snt ot t'' b educated
in tle hibway. and 7htWithrdii' adit blackguards .It will
ti 1" itr  fyuCannI It ispare se  AfIyour ow-ervants to
watt-h thI v. I will wend  m'es to take him ' ut every mormng.
L-k at h t a: I y, i will ;Pt- I amn rizht-
Ell~a I ke'. TIer' st''-i Ernest. with his curI disorndered, his
face I rid. his shirt dirty. hi jlased 1-ver tunic trn. and one
tiny ist wVl--n *ut of all jip-rtrn with its fell w.  A sad sight.
and yet fTh-rl- was  rnthing adb-u rbh little i-lw's appearance
tt re-as'uri'lld hr: Elis tig-un-re  w  sldrawn pr 'udly up to its full
ght, anti he did not look as if hn hadl d''ne anything to be asare

11

I


24                 -     STADISH.

of. Feeling the time had come when she must make Jnna see that
her husband was master in his own house, she said -
"Your brother thinks that Ernest is old enough to learn to take
care of himself: I am sorry you do not agree with him, but this is a
matter in which he is better able to judge than you or I."  Then, with-
out waiting for a reply from Anna. who stood amazed at this reproof
from her gentle sister-in-law, she turned to Ernest, and said, " Come
here, my darling, and tell mamma all about it.."
Esty sprang to her arms. and burst into tears. The little fellow
had gone through much, this morning : he had had his first experience
of the rough side of life, and he had borne it like a manl. but, at his
mother's tenderness, his heart melted within him. In a moment, how-
ever, he wiped away his tears and said -
When I first went out, this forenoton. I found such a ni  slide in
my mall. - soon I ts of fellows came, -James Brawr , am flail,
and NedI Parker, and, cracky! we had such fun i.Then I hard some-
body say, 'may n't I slide to ?'s and I saw a little vLf he was so
thin anl sad-laokin; I was glad he wanted tat play. anI cried, - yes,
come al:g, and take your turn.' But Ned Parker - h,  a real nieaut
fellow, mamma - called the 1ly a  alxrar. and sa Id he'd gire it to
him if he tried to slide : and I said ho should slide, al  y
should touch him. This made Ned furious. and he   uld n his
fist at me. and cried. ' Yiniou mamnmys baby, you: if Vo hav'.'t holes
in your elbows, vo 've slits up your sleeves, anal you shan'* sid
any more yturseif' Then they all b":an to laugh at nme, lut I
pitched into Ned as hard as ever I oull. I wult n't have minded
if he 'd been twice as big : he K' taller than I am. but I lot P believe
he 's as strong doi you, mamma. because in a few minutes ihe called
out. -tp. little Fury. I was only in fun: let me alonc. and you anal
your beggar fr end may s1ide as much as you want to.  " -
When this simple storyv was finished. why did Ella pross Ftt so
closly to h-r heart. while her ta'ars fell fast upon his curls?
Meanwhkil Anrn was gonz thr ah a uamtal struzglh . She had
done Ernest in'uztic :it was huiiatinz ta ask a child's fr;ivenes
but her 5    fse tri-t veramre hor pride, anAd hiling aut her hin!,
she said, - I 'jndzd y t: t  hastix' I should Lava praised instead
of blaming Vou."
"Nevernind. Aunty:"and Estry.inping up,::gave her th hiartiest
kiss be hl 'er-verb'o;rel on her. anl ran awa.:, to become still
more the object of Deborah's pride and Paul's idolatry.
CHAPTER VL
A' n flow the winter gaotr b'e'n. Horace entered! heart anal
soul into all the amuserments : akin: nithizng was tirturt. t him, anal
society his n'tral rest, after work. The men receivedI him. wher-
ever hewent, wth hearty     tadw il an' the      I zaltr  of his
of society than her husband: she knew she was beautiful ftor no

woman is dull enough to remain in ignorance of this fact, but it was
to please her husband that her dress was always rich in material
and tasteful in fashion, and that jewels made still more dazzling the
whiteness of her neck and arms. She was not of the slipshod and
curl-paper s'hootl. a butterfly abroad; a caterpillar at home. Her
mornin: dress was as carefully arranged as her evening toilet, and
Horace often took her to task for the coquettish way in which her
little breakfast cap hid her curls from him and the sunlight, and
this plavful gallantry from a lover, who had been for seven years her
husban. was the only admiration she cared to win or wear. This
it was which marde her indifferent to the effect of her beauty, and
did much to make others forget it too : ennobled by intercourse
with one se single-hearted and so pure, flatterers turned irito admir-
ers. anI a1rnrers into friends. Imperceptibly her influence in-
creased. and. before the winter was over, she had made for herself a
place in sciet which no one else could till. The young, won by
her kindn~e  sought her counsel and assistance: the sad found
corrl rt in avmpathy that flowed into their heart . without inquir-
ing- why iP w  need eI: and the old were charmed by the deference
arnd intbrot with which she listened to their tales of by-gone days
while : th" :av tiretlies of fashion thse who had not yet learned
ti w1 rk or sufer. her kindness gave the best they could receive,
the new'st pattern for a dress. or the last novel or review.
But for all thi;. Ella was not an angel yct : the wings had not ap-
peared. her feet trod upon the earth: and, poor little feet, they were
'omeimes vWearV, and wavered, when she met storms upon her path,
and th0n the lus of this worlI ,ose and shut out her beacon-light
of faith n liove.: and sometimes it was not even a pebble that stood
in her-way. but a mere shade - a dark phantom without shape or
sub'stane. ecept that which her 'awn fears gave it. She had as a
wird to her wed inz rinz, one of old fashioned twisted goll that had
b    bmu hr mathr'. 'Denorah had taken it from her rnistress' finger
after 4h was laid in the coffin, ar.d saved it until the tiny hand that
could '-:y  lurch her dre%. should be Lare enougr h to wear it.
(Ine rnrin. standish was awakened by a low sob: opening his
eves he n-w his wife -itting on a chair in her white dressinz-zown,
her hNair f"l:inr in :lden maet half waves, half curls, to her feet.
At hia p inionateoxpressions of endearment and pity, she uncor-
erA her fio. the tear rolling down it and sai-
'v' I  thema bth. Horace, and nf'w I shall lose you and
Estv
L  t both of them! bothOf what ? I did not know vou had
any treas;r's that rivalled Eisty and me in your heart. Conw. speak
out, I 'm beAinin; to bjeal ut."
Ela Nihin: and haxgng her head - --M    -my' - I 'm raid
v11 WY! anzh at me.
r mind if I d  littl wife: it will nt 4 I  the first time.
T Ilo j utekly', that I may 5vympathize with vou 11 ri you bose
me tt
1 kno~w  isa very ft dish -wicked -but it 'snuc a lad sign -
I cnnot help erring- my rings--my mother's, my wedding-ring,
V f course, if one went the other must. Were you not in such a

I

STANDISHO                     25


STANDISH.                      27

hurry to marry me that you could not wait for a wedding-ring to be
ordered for you, but forced me to buy one made for an Italian hand,
and twice too large for your tiny finger!
"I never was in a hurry to marry you'; Im sorry I ever did it,
you tease me so-
- What 's this pricking my neck? Here are your rings sticking
into me. The twisted one is broken. but it can easily be rnonde-d:
at best it was but a poor symbol of your mother's love. And what,
my darling, could the slipping ot of this little circlet do to divide
us? It took its part in the sacrament that first united us, but everY dav
that has passed away since has been a stronger link than this to
bind us tog-th.2r. You have given me, with yourself. Ella. a part of
your beautiful tfaith. and. as I feel my evil passions and desiri-s turn-
ing to rood. under your influence. I tiUo can say. G odha jVined us
not for this world only, but for eternity."
So Horacet:tby turns. teased and comforted his fOliih wif: but
thluh JtA reproached herself fr her flv it was not utuil Uhe ne-t
marnii that thephantm her imagiatin halconjurd u. disap-_
pere  ra her path. Tfuen rshe ., full of t,:th and141  amifl like
asenible woman, which he coull  e when she chose. carried her
twisted fim t. the jeweller s to be mendd.- 1.
This jewellrrs shp was a superb etablihrnen. thr  d  with
customers. Ella went up to th- counxt.-r where there wjs niir- mr
and fP undi herself n-xt to a stout. halt- entleman. wht - nr1 t be
making achee between several set    f -wi-ivy spread  ut :gre L
him.  Ilk eutenandCe we.re that puzzLh 44ok cmiimon t nIn f
when execuitoS a comromission Ltr wIe it daughter. if the edue f
whie he is as ignorant as of the tih -ri f  in ft- S I uth  -N. Mrsi.
Standeh ,  - at him with pity. and wihed it were prpr ir her to
offer hin Pt r aid : then she hand' her ring to the shorIan.  iring
that it mitht be mended at snce, and went away. Ar thx  iid of
her nuee, the gentlemann at her Id -ked up from i  wi*lderi
sectin -aud heaved a little sih. sh as  ne liv   - t a moliry
of ft past  Iaving chrosenja turpu  t. ht pad  r it. anI whil
waitu  fr ns entanse, plafy-d with Ela ri  which had bn'- nI-t
on tht -, curtr, turning vit vr mnh-T i 4aniadv miT his hand. But L   h
eve fl~ up-n it, he uttered at -xclamai' of surprie. x inied it
more A-ely. then he touch.- a     Tpri; Th- ring ipenid. and :-inz
to the hw, wo I  he     U was able t read th ainsci'ta - T' E C*
from W .i PI
IV,  , teh lady who has .ist lft tir shp ? t'thh a-k-- 1f t - I
man w  1 4it'    IIm To tx  w  I
n itart Mrs. -tandsh, Kr   asked- rhe ht ra. - Vwil-
deel inh trn
must Ii"t  'i'lady  that  Own-i  this  tr :.  W hir.  d 4 s -sh  liv.  ?  I
L 'Lst -t-h P.   t tiS       re
hand   rn r~   Srin  sh.  t9i  Beac  n  Str. t  sir.  4U t''t  mxi--  it-,
h,te ands-is  -u;,f  ni-r . ''
But a   of r- ti sentence was imi- . the t-ut :nt-mn  httlY
aprear   li fondh     h use wi rt .I   tur    asi     tth
do.r was pt-ned for bin-. he pushed by1- the sert. n  nee
room, guided by the sound of thevic he had aer   nteso.

There stoodI the lady of his search. trying to get her shawl and bonr-
net from a little rogue, who had cocked her Parisian flower-basket
on the side of his head, and 'was dragging her rich cashmere along
the floor,  ( What would Aunt Anna have said!) The'strer
stride towards her. and askeil abruptly-
"Was Your mother's name Ella Campbell?"
"Yes" she answered.
-31ine is William Campbell. I quarrelled with your father. I
was too rough to suit his taste, and vou, perhaps. will not own "-
His niec- sprang to his arms. exelaiming, "Uncle William!" and
his doubts vanished.
Ella had a large portion of that womanly instinct. which, both
higher ansi lw.-r than man's reas- on, divines all in a moment.
As she fe-lt herself pr-ssed in those strong arms, with that honest
hi-art beating against her own. through half'forgotten memories, de-
taihVd woris. exp.ressiowr hardly listened t-. or unde-rstood at the
time. ;h,- saw tho truth. This waS the 4v who hal -ft school at
Lise4the'r  deI.th. awl gone tO w#rk to support his mother, and edu-
a- his lbHitlS' sit't. Thi was the man. frOn whose rough exterior
h -r fAth-r shrank. but to witse generous hart .h-r mrnt-ther clung
and ther sh    ls-t lhe too coball lng. anil make up for her father's
iniustic- i her I-ye. Little Ernest threw IL--wn his f rb-idden plav-
thins.'i Itdrv n-ar wit w-ndering eyes, and when he saw tears
on h in mdthr' -heeks, his  bwnesan t flow.. Ella proudly exhib-
itl h1r s1t t-t his unle.
A ly. wih -i  th- little f-llfjw like ? Where did he get those
dark vl  frm
r i m   ie m' pa-  " said Estv, ' and I mea n to  e a painter, too,
mmly I ra-t b. a s-fier tirt "u'
Yau mi-t -ene it to Minne- a. Br-t of all,  any, and I'Il
001v vu a nice little clt to rile. XVuld r t yu alike to~ see miles
a I tilbr if tcht.- :sanI a ; of 'ra--s !"
 A            nI-N -N grass, Em* " W Ir  And can viu sail fn it in a  at?
Ella, bin    Estv -eate4 on hi.r uncl's kne- asking questions.
v-nt to  l H li-i ---f h-r morains advnture. She pass-d rapidly
t--sh the hal. i aIt the tdr f thm' stuii she stppd and! the
xv f ex-itement and pleasure fdedl from hor cheek, Troubled
:ht-z re-' in hot rminI. Was her husband less refined ald fa-
t-us tan her father, and woull he be r-ad to gtr-t as uncle, the
r u wern fzrn-r ? Then to.i, hie ne ver liked to be interrupted
when4 at w tk: a i-it t the wrenthim- night 11rit out from his
ImnamA.nt:-n sme, ie he was trans.f'rringr tcanvas, and an un-
finiurhed pIrte trerti a a n m-rialo f the intrulr.
But .i- e-41 ncit loitate- f revor: something  must be done, and
st i   y  p.n. 1 rhp d  t. HI,-ra-,- wa sta in:. rush in hand,
bfttor- ansdil 'A it -;t-:tarae. which she knew welL  The ruined
to wer wit rr-dat a-il bank. vt-ry hardl outline sof-ned in the
nt   h-t.- atil it se-med a scentn srnme spirt-world. The lover
rU ini 1 -nt the. lank with his- harp.- its strings quivering with the
ti-,!." t--'-;-frho-lv: train, 1-ut his eves fixed with passionate
- -H11r b-osom heacmi cihe stepr aside,
A4 conscious of moy look -he snept.'

'tj lk
zt;                                               STANDISHO

Y'41


29

13

Long had Horace toiled, before he could produce his conception
of this figure. But now he felt almost satisfied.  Here was the
startled withdrawing glance, the heaving breast. the rising blush.
Ithe lips trembling with fear and with rapture, as the consciousness
of a change in her being broke upon her. -"the soul more embodied,
the body inore ensouled." the free. lighthearted grace of the maid,
ehangg into the deeper and more submissive charm of womanhood.
At his wife's light step behind him, Standish turned, ercircled her
with ids ar. and said. Tell me what you think of it." watchin-r her
expressit e±agerlv.
At first. a mnile of pride and l.asure lighted tip er fac h:bit as
her eye rested uiion the figure of G4-oeevievt.t her colsr ro. and in a
moment mtre she had hiddei her fac upon his breast, exclaiming-
Horace. how could you f
How could I what. darlin?
Her oniy answer was to raise htr blushig face with a - proachful
look to his, which was easily readI.
Ii.w ciul II represent the moment when our hearts first. e
to each ther in the old Italain :r'aUren   Lok azain. i it s !  If
tiiere is anything which bel nss to us as individuals in this pitrtU
I will dahIT my brush over it. ~I cannot le an artist if I am iess than
a man. The scene an!dt'. onrti n are the poet's. It is nly th ex-
-     pression of the two figures 'tt re:mindlv ru of our betrothal. There
is such a . moent as this in the lives  f all livers  It mar r" ne' t
the high-born maiden in the midt f a lince, and t, the !Ik-iusad as
she -rests her heavy pail in tho  tii'  It is the same relation*
more cb'ear and defined injr p 1 r4t, to the rfintnoInt f' the soul
that feels it. I Ut till. for t!!. an entrance into a new world of love
and beauty, As the pi'bbds  tir 'wn into the laki continual ven-
larges its circ'e, until it. hi -irrl I the whole di. Iv t'fwat'r. 'must
one use his wn experi ee tz  widn t'he cir.e df hiV  ym r 4thy
until -  ,what ! v ci hak' .vour hrlead 1o3'u are jalo tus of' th  univer-
sal sympathy. But tell4       wwat married woman amnrz all
your n%1ids :s Irvd  n   r'   l ly her husband as y       r
Ta ike MY word for it. any       4   :trtZ-nrS' wuld have b  a worn
uTak wi  'our 'xaic:i s r:t'ail s        wldhae I-  -   Wor
" I m'~ nt so sure of     Irt   Hr M-r. I   : t  wn  1  I d
know. I w"ild rth r have ±  ;. wr Ir frm v IL .tn tlt
of the rcest of the w:r" '  nd. b'uix' 4h'   mb' o 'r I what had
birouneht bs'r mo K  trud  and.I ~'±a'I 'E -- th. II ra"'e my; unce.
m y'  mother' f rh r. ,h i   here.  in the  Iiir T  with E :t : I  came  ti
tell yu, ut v     rnmade rI   -    it.         2,     ma.I
faith ro -I uit li rae you wl                 a  rnuh ma sake;
h                . vtkmiItii&amp;him nr14y4m         t       ake  -I
he worked I  hard to di'ate her as  a  v when zranthr wih'
was 1     r in IHarrf rPr -man Var'r.' di h. vlilt' iherit-
ance, h made it for my mother. I ca't rem r  r - -there W  fs
troul4el between mx father and himself and] I  -ugt h  at de I
but he has beon living~ in Minnrw t al tiS tn  XV n't v  w
come him kindly. th' ugh he mar sh o'k rxv tst?'-l--
W" 1W ' ims hin kindly. E1.. why I wud  Ihr  ylstla     ih
him, what a firs:-rats. fellow h,' rnsut bt' "   -wit
.And Standish Lastened to the library, where the farmer sat hold-
ing Esty' in his arms, the weather-Ibeaten fac.' Pf "lie afiording a

strong contrast to the soft beauty of the other. But they were
alike in one thing, the clear, blue eye of the man exp eda nature
simple and trusting as the child's.
Papa ' I 've got a new uncle. Esty cried, jumping down from
uncle William's lap. but holding him fast by the hand.
And so have 1. but from what your mamma has told me about in,
I feel as if I had always known and loved him - and mean to make
him love me too, Horace added. grasping Mr. Campbell's unoccu-
pirl hand.  - I trust my little Aoy has not wearied you with ques-
tions about life n the West, f ur I am full of cunosity concerning
Mine ""ta. Do you live near St. Paul's !-
Hard lv. From a high hill on my farm, you can see the steeples
of :St. Paul's.
And have you steeples in St. Paul's! houses, and churches, all
risen lie Aladdin's palace in a single night :'"
"It dues seem like magic. A few years ago, when I went out
West ti choose my land, the public house at -t. P'aul's was a log
cabin with one room in it. sixteen feet square. There we had to put
up. and small as it was. the  was quite enough to put up ith, for
the roof was so leaky that.  on it rained, you d wake up in the
night. and tind the water pouring  in  treams over you.
Oh what fun, 1 'd like that !""said Ernest.
-It 's funnier to hear tell of it, :Sonny, than it was to bear it.  I
lived through some rough times, when I first steered'my course to
Minnta. But. as luck would have it. or mayhap it was no luck,
but a kind Providence that wanted to provide for my old age, any-
Ways, I saw ISrie town-lots one morning, selling cheap, and though
I did r±'t wV ant 'em to live on. cause I always took to a country life, and
was already clearing my farm land. still I bought 'em. and they
sOld again so well., that they made rue fore-handed syith the world."
XWere you the first settler in vur rnghborhond !
- Mv aXe WaS the only sound t i heard fr rmles in the untrod-
iei frst : d I can tel you what, I was desperate glad. if some-
tines a wLite face happened in at dusk, md share. my log hut
with mo.
N ow you have a fine farm. I suppose.
X4 W e   a man should nut prai  his own. But kindling with
enthusiasmx  the re is not a timr'r State in the wiot e J'nmed, than Mm-
: j  t.Such prairie lands ful of deer, and grouse. an ipartridges,
ItIers St ,cked with bass, sutih, picker"I, and pike.  And from
the bomI nif the, rocks.tlear little streams. with trout dancing in
em. 11cr' 's for yin, if yo u are a sportsnan  Then if it farMng
v    ku lk. thr 's hizh land for the cattle an i sheep: and inuer mutton
never w   to an alderman's table'. than corns to mine.  There are
rich alley  or vur wheat. and C'rn. and gas, such everlasting
great crops as ore can raise ! I tell vou what, my cattle den't suffer
for hay and fodder in the winter.
" What a glorious pictunage give of a SpprltsmanI and a farmer's
paradise   And the fre independent ife yo lead there, h ow much
better adapted to develop all a man's faculties than ours."
"Ella, let 's go out to Minesota."
" Come and see us, and judge for yo urselves: vyou 11l find a warm

b0

STANDISH.

4

STANDISH.*

28"


30  SANDSH.STANDSH.                                                                       31

4

welcome. my pretty niece - plenty of room in uncle William's heart,
and in his loghouse too, whenever you turn up."
Mr. Campbell was persuaded to stay a week. in Weston, with his
niece.  His modest carpet-bag was sent for, and the turq1uo tist- .et,
which proved to he a present for his little daughter, found its way to
ninety Beacon Street.
- When he reached his western home, and was tnce m.rc seated by
his own fireside, he had much to tell his wife and daughter. of that
eventful week.
"OThis niece of mine. wife." he said  th"ih'uzh as -stylish a lady to
look up.o-n, as any in America, ain't n--toone t-o tei to call Will Camp bell,
uncle. Every time she spoke. she gave me a kinder queer feeling
all over. her voice is so like sister Ella's. and she has sister Ella'
sweet little ways too. lo'king after everybody's cormfrt., and never
thinking of herself. Awd as for that artist hushandI if htrs. he ' a
firs:-rate chap: n--ne of y'-ur city wars abi-ut him 4i-'d sit ft-r
bturs. smo-king. and likterinz t. Tiny stori- -f western lif', one of
thoe hunts, r u know. when we Iring ho-me I-r's tb-sh en--ugh to
make stia ks f        :r a mn-rith-: and -whpaI 'I -t-l l how., after f-ill.-win:
th-ir tracks fr hurs. w-'d1 come ur- with a h--lrdl -f deer. his ev's-k
would flash so '"could ihave lit Ty pipe at '-m *easv. Th-n an-ther
time h. 'd-  out th- sett -rs, an-I I "d t-il of seine bl fe-Illow
that struggled hart to get his bit ~ land cleared anti th n tak
down with a frer, andi bcme t-oo weak to doI-. a trlk#-- -f v'w#rk. anl
how he wonld hae starred I if hi; delicate little wif ha-I n-t sow4d.
his CrOps fr the next year.  Such a storv a this. and I can v -4
heaps of 'em. von ;ee w-uld make those creat eves of his, that wi-re
flashig so a minute N-fre, moist-n. ani gxrv  tendttr. like any
woman, and I c-neluded. I don't know whethi r I was ri:ht or no,
cause I 'm n-t b-rnt.                        ii- nouh t say un certain. zt it aiTe iunt m n
head, tat paintir: keep a mn'S h-ar  - ftr tlhian anytlin: --s."
CHAPTER         VIIP
A     T, after Mr. Cannpl ri t n-trn to Minn-sota Mr Standiih
 l tyhidi feer. At fir-t his attack seerned- li;ht. and noe
anzer was apprehende.-l bit. at the end of a wee k. a chan. f-r thi
wrse t k plaCe. 'Anna's z--al and enrgy' in nur-ing i-r fitber
we-re Untmn. the would rbS the invalid's aching; irn1 ;fr hours.
sstmn tat Ihe felt no frue. Iler's was the skill. t4 - prepare in
the mi  t mannr coohung   raughts, gruel and to.ast-wat.'r. to an-
rrrI-ry want, and t suggest and try all th--se siml modntl
hn      : pirn. whic-h are rather withinbe prince i-of the nurse
thn ph rscan, and which, through inorance, are often neglected
Ity bth, Bu t at times her very watchfulness and care were painful
motionless f r h-urs, with h te  I han  pt  hi foeha   ho rne-

ing by his side. sang to him the hymps he had learned in his boy-
hood, and those simple Italian airs Horace's mother had loved so
much: and it often seemed to him as he listened to Ella's sweet
note . that a richer. fuller vmice joined itself with hers: and his soul,
all pain, all earthly care forgotten. rose upborne upon the melody to
the very gates .f heaven.
lWh-n the c'mmnunication with the cuter world is partly shut off,
when Ul I a-  _ r disease have dimmed the senses, the stron.st emo-
tio ns 4 the soul. though seemingly dead, revive : feelings which have
1 n; slept are awakened. and :vents, which have passed from the
m#m rv, rftrurn to it again. Thre is sotmethinr at once fearful and
comfor'fin: in th ideathat thiN suggests: that evervting that has-
really; 4omo our own, bv feeling. th ought. or act, lives within us,
th -nch it may be beneath iu   cioir  usness, but still it lives, and
d  its sar'ither of go 'el)r *'vil. in rnuldi n: us f -r ternitv.
a    tw i wvas with Mr. Srario h : hihis In-ans, LW thoughts. his
hr k1   worW.i were fill -f Itht penrI  f h  lif. wh:  in a few
:   t    . h,  h a 1   fI t. .  u red  nj ye. i   plannedl.  A i executed
M, r"- in t:; :n Av1ar. befre r aftew.
Ili I.-rh       l *1 had been pa.sl in a retired I Nw Enlan I vilaze:
hi v:th a- elrk n the estabi-hment f a ri-h Bsto.in mch'ait;
A.&amp;str-v aln ttt v &amp;1ha 4in.bh im jimi4  rt h
and ;vhen his usr ninert        a md     i   uir partner, he
r-    ern  C-usin Anne, the fivto.ite c- .mipan'i ot  hi chilhh'td.
11d 1  . t ie hlovd# her  - e did not kl-w he had an iiazina-
tion. or trio ublo hinsolf alant 11.  It, was an hon.rale* busins
transaction : Ct uisirn Anne neded a hone, he had a ut ottmfortalle
one to otTr her, ani he th  rht in return she would niat' him a nice
little wife. as indeed she dii.' iS rnatrimonia Uwas aN successful as
hi; t  p  clatins. I Ir the S ptIn" rud'Ience and  judgment
uidel  th. and hi :ri f was i.n -r' wh-n Conein Ani dbed.1ear-
i. it her stead, tni 'e as much capacity. and half as much sweet-
Fe.  flnT ( nor;on of little Anna.
Aft- r tne of those dan;-er-us pein0  f-r m-rcharts, when banks
refue peeW payments. and lon:et ablished firms fail. Mr. Standish,
n w ,eni.r partner . fund himnseiwith a higher reputatin itfor integrity
and alityT ha-in: w'athered the to-r.T hut withl healh ad nerves
sIiaken I vth- -rdi:d thri -h which he had passd, s. he t-ok his
i L"h-yv. a E ur- pt-ant triji
An I now he was " caub:ht up inta- lve, and tau A  Th' whe-le of
life in a nmw rhvthn.'  Wanirnirn in it-at beautiful l burying-
groun nar Naph-s. which c rnmani-s a   -viwc of the Ity. a iight.
f-ml tnre in lack (l-selv xvil'-d. knelt by a tmb at I f-it: lie
was turn: re.pectfully aw y, wh-n he was fastedw--l  h    1 by
a v ice rich, thrilling, v-rie, .   y- a41way! .u,-i: an Itaian
, iwe. pinnro. rt                       ir out such imnTpasNind  rfv   N :rav. as
only can cutnP from the lpS of P- ,i   -bildren of the uNi. Grief
strike; um dumb. to then it nriN v  r  -f tri  And I -r- dropped
itt his heart. mt-lting awaY h--Ic- r and- day~-hk. -manuf-uinng in-
teresi: arnd st--cks until the merchant ct-nIImed. the a.n remrainel
with imnazinati--n awakened, an-I -Au stirred to its depths. Fool
that'he was, he knew neither her name nor family hadl n-'t even
lookedi up--n her face, there was no judzincnt, no prudence here ;~

30 A

STASMSH.


32

c

STANDIsB.

In the mean time an Italian had approached, who, after a few
moments' silence, began to chide and comfort the lady, in tones that
seemed strangely familiar to Mr. Standish. A moment more and he
was greeted by a warm salute, not from the lady, which he would
have doubtless preferred, but from the moustached lip of her brother
tount Orfano. whom he had knoSwn as a poor exile, and who was
now restoredl to his title and estates. The exile had fallen ill at a
miserable lodging-house in Boston, and the hospitable rnrchant had
taken him to his home, and had him carefully nursed. kmnswing
notin  Aris guest, but that he was a gentleman, poor and friend-
ls id, when the invalid was recovering 31r. Standih, not
without a sigh, it must be confessed, gave up the Pew leisure hours
his business left him each day. to the study of the Italian language,
literature and polities, the Count considering the first two tilv val-
uable as keys to the last. The quick-witted Italian had understood
the oI e eTf these studies: and though years had since passed in
plts an I intrigues, his gratitude was still fresh. antbMr. Standish
was s'n -atd in the C unt's carriage, on the iway to his villa, in
the nei rhrhod of Naple.
The Cunt'   Violetta drew aside her veil, and kindly welcomed
her brother's benetact r. Her deep mourning dress wa nost trying
to a compiexion from which grief had taken the rich beloi, while it
had marked dark circles round her eves: lut these eVes were sin-
gularlv larze, deep., and tender. Musterinz to his aid the little pru-
dence ant c  mrnrnn sense that had resisted her voice, anI reassured
at not tirvinz her bautiful.'he looked into her eves,  e 'lance, --
lerS    thi n  ±hes veiled them : but it was enough - his case
was htpilesl. It mattered not tio him the difference in race, educa-
tijn, and re1izitn strong reasn fas thry were against the success
of h s suit. or his happiness. if it seeded; come weal 4r woe, he
rest ved this Itari rirl shIuld be his wife.
A: the villa. he fundI Violet's ;vernmss, as stiff a Duenna as
ever tisurred in p3lay r n;v e'l. and a priest, that necessary appendage
to every Italiain family. And nw 31r. Standish's winn  would
have r spared. had the heart of the young Countess beien left free.
Her umther, wi. ,a he fondly lived1. was dead : her breothor was almost.
a stranger t her: he lived lbt for Italy: while her governess and
priest were  -t'ss rather of P ar than afectioen. To loVe and to be
beloved was neesLarv te the existence of a nature like hers, full of
irnaginain. pasiorn. and te1nrs   N Mr. Standish was handsome
and intelliet. -itand still in the prime of life, though  anry years
older than herself: but. more than all. he loved her : and, in the tender
deference of his manner, his grinmess to gratifv her wishes. and his
sympathy in her pursuits, she fe-It his devotion, and her gratitude
soon 'hanzed to love: The priest saw it. and bezn to weave his
web about his victim. The illness ef Violetta's mother had been a
short and painful ne. She desired. when dving, that her orphan
child Theuld bew placed under the care o f her sister, the Ablbess of
the convent of the Sacro Cuore, until Count Ortane should find a
suitable connection for her, but wit hodt any idea of Violetta 's remain.-
ing and~ taking the teil. But the priest determined that she and
her torrune shul be secured to the cent. He spoke first to
herdo the sacredness of a dyir; request, and related dreadful in.

ST    ISE33
stances in which the displeasure of Heaven attended those who neg
lected it. -Then he gave his interpretation of her mother's wisb,
and Violetta Shuddered at the thought of the convent's walls closing
around her. This reluctance he treated as a snare set by Satan, to
endanger her soul, to be overcome by fasting and prayer. After a
few days of this treatment, the sensitive conscience of the young
Co untess took alarm; her unagination was excited at the thought of
the required sacrifice, and a terrible mental struggle followed. Mr.
:tandish saw the effect of this on her delicate frame, and trying to find
oUt the cause and soothe her distress, his love found words: for one
momen.t. he pressed her in his arms, and the poor child laid her head
uptn hiN houlder, and felt as if there she could find rest forever. But
when he -stoiped to press his lips to hers, she tore herself away, ex-
laiminz wiidly', "no. no! it must not be!  Mother, mother! save
mI :+ and rushed to her room.
Ilti-d in vain to see her again that day : -then he sonzht the
CXut, t-1d him of his affection for his sister, and asked his permis-
s*n to address her. The Count entered into his wishes with enthu-
as: and went to his sister's chandler: but, when he returned, he
hrg:' 1 his shoulders, arid sail she had set her heart upon iecom-
inz the Bride of Heaven, and, as it was also her mother- swish, he
could not force her to marry his friend.
The nxt morning, when M1r. Saunlish rose, after a sleqlss night,
a n te, Ltted with tears, WaS put into his hands:
"Think of me no more: I shall soon be free from all this misery,
and j'in mv mother in' heaven. God and the lIy Virin bless you
for your kin Iness to                            V0Lto A."
If' h-trI thn sound of carriage wheels. She was gone: the
prst 11a4 outwitted him.
M      zr. StAih was iw th rcuIhl raused. and saw thi whf 1#ga{Ime.
Th pri    had used nio fre' : he hai done his work yIx' moulding
tU his w:hes the imprsli-tP nature sf the voun  Countess, and,
un1 s me intiuence eouid i ftfund t v ToveJrpwer his, Vii oltta would
nevfer lt'ave the walls of the convont alive.
After many plans. all of whi'h were lefatd. he obtained. through
a vurg American. who had just jined the church of Rm. an in-
trodution t Cardinal B * * *. All that he hear l'If this great
and ;   - I man confirmed him in the inpriszsin, that upon hiu all his
hopes 'f success must depend.
VeneralIe t'hurh of Rome, though we have torn ourselves from
vr'ir bOSOm. cleansed ourselves from your sins. and ref rmIed your
abuses, yet would we give you du honor, for the sake f ihse of
your children, who, like Cardinal B*** ** live pure amon: corrup-
tions. sing-hearted among deceits, and. high in Itellect, but lowly i
heart, use all their influence in the service of their Father and ours.
3Mr. Standish obtained a private interview with the Cardinal. and
told him all. When he placed Violetta's blotted note in his hands, he
saw a tear of sympathy added to the bitter ones the poor girl had
shed upon it. After a long pause. in which the Cardinal was~ lost in
thought, he said -
" My son, I will examine into this. I was the intimate friend of

ii
I

-4

4l

I


ME ASTANDISH.S

the Countess's mother. She did not wish.her daughter to take the
veil; some fraud has been practised upon her. Will you trust me,
and leave all in my hands? "
It was not possible to distrust his voice and manner. Mr. Stand.-
ish agreed to leave Rome, and return, three months from that day, at
the same hour, and see the Cardinal.-
After what seemed to him an eternity,-the appointed time came.
He was again shown into the Cardinal's private room, and there stood
Violetta, who sprang towardif him with a cry of joy, drew back with a
burning blush, and turned aside with a flood of tears. Violetta, his
Violetta. now gloriously beautiful. he thought, with roses on her
cheeks and smiles on her lips. Though the Cardina, had used his
authority to restore Violetta to her home, he would do n ng to pro-
mote her marriage with a heretie : but Count Orf o had ub scruples
of consience, and at last all difficulties were sartbounted, and Mr.
Standish was married to the Countess.
Mr. Standish's broken words were intelligible to Horace. for he
had heard the whole story from his mother: they renewed hL3 gief
for her ls. and made his father more dear to him.
One morning, at dawn, the invalid opened his eyes and called to
Horace to raise him up : he was struggling for breath. Anna, roused
from her light slumbers, put a cordial to his lips.  Ella. Esty," he
murmured. and blessed them all. Then his head sunk upon his son's
shoulder, and that indescribable change passed over his face. vhich
shows that death is at hand. A err of anguish burst from Horace's
lips, and he pressed his dying father in his arms. It seemed as if
that cry and warm embrace had power to aWest the spirit in its
fizht. The rigidity of death passed away, adt the lips smiled, as
they murmured. "Do you not hear her. Horace--her voice - I knew
she would sing in heaven."  And all was over.
CHAPTER        VIII.
0" . papa. this is such a beautiful day!" said Estv to his
father. as he met him at the door of the breakfast-room, one fine
spring morning : " can't we make a May-day of it?"
"A May-day ! Why, it is a Mar-day already, in the almanac and
out of it, - a poet's May-day, and an actual May-day; what more
can we do for it?"
No, papa: only the first of Mav is Mav-day ; I want to make
this into the first, and go a Maying
"Change old Father Time ito a crab and make hi walk back-
wards two weeks .  ery well, I consent: but if I let him go back
tw  webk to please you, you must let him go back ten times fifty-
two weeks to please me."
" Ten timees fifty twoi weeks ! Why - why that 's ten whole
years; I don't understand, "- and a shadow rested on the boy's

I-

open brow, "Do boys always want to be men. and men want to be
boys, and nobody what he is, and everybody something else?"
"Precisely so," replied Horace, laughing, "If you were sixty
instead of six"
"Almost se ,A rpsed the boy.
"Well, then, y     svrsixty, instead of almost seven, you could
not have desen        state of the world better:" and Horace
laughed again.            a puzzled look still on the boy's face,
with one of tho              s from jest to earnest, so common
with him. he th             d his son. and drawing hint towaids
him. said, "My are journeying through a tangled
wood. to a beautiful           other side of it. Those who have
gne but a few miles o       further on their way.-an4 those who
have stepped aside from      patlvhieh the sunbeams of heaven
always brighten, tempted by fire-flies, glow-worms, or will-o'-the-
Wips. lonz to go back. some ten, sine twenty, some thirty miles,
and find the right path. And now. Estv, do vou understand why
you want to go on. and I want tI. go back?
Ernest answered, by clasping his arms still tighter round his
father's neck. and, as they kitsd each other. each cheek was moist-
ened by a tear.
A warm, sunny feeling crept into the heart of both, and, looking up,
they saw Ella bending over them. Even her deep mourning dress
threw no gloom about$ her: like a lark background to a picture, it
gily brought into brighter relief her transparent skin and golden curls.
What does papa say, Esty?  Have you won him over to our
scheme?"
"Our scheme! I yield at ~once. Why, you little rogue, you
never told me that plan about .oing a Maving was your moth-
er s, or I should not have wa-ted so much philosophy upon it.
Never bring either philosophy, or reason. in contact with a woman's
will: they lose their edge ,and she loses her  temper." springing
up at the last word, and imprisoning both his wife's little hands in
his, as if he expected some immediate punishment from them.
Lla struggled to get free, and ifrace Opened his hand, looked ad-
miringly upon the slender. rosy tipped fingers. and then closed it
ruthlessly upon them. just as they thought they were sure of escape.
"Pfor. weak little things, the can't be of any use in the world;
what do you want them fir!
"To make your coffee."
" A ptly spoken. Now you are free, let me have the coffee." And
Esty, tell Daniel, who is always db'liberate. to have the carriage at
the door as soon as possible, atnd. lt Deborah pack us up some
luncheon."
Oh, mamma has attended to every thing: such nice cold chickens,
od tongue, and coquettes: I peeped into the basket."
"Well," cried Horace, seating himself at table. "Juno never
treated her sovereign Jove with more contempt. than my little wife
treats me ! A regular conspiracy. to cheat me out of a day's work."
"ever mind Jove.," said Ella. bringing round cup o'''' df coffee
with her own hands : let Hebe and this cup of coffee console you for'
a shrewish wife."
Horace sipped it approvingly. "' Turkish coffee, and American

t

4
:1

4!

4
*

3'

OMO
0 A ASMSH&amp;

I


1S

6

36

STANDISH.

cream; I don't believe the gods had anything better. But what
made you so secret in your plans. little woman
"Why, it was Deborah's suggestion, that if I told the young folks
beforehand, and the day was not suitable, 'they 'd be kinder disap-
pinted.'"
- And by young folks, she meant."-
" Mr. Horace. and Mast.r E  to"
" Complimentary to the h e   f        y.4 One more cup of
nectar. Hbe, and then we wil go.        s    be held respon-
sible for- ill the juvenile pranks, I p  t      First, we will
have a ramble in the woods, and then go to Ran  i's, and take our
picnic in his garden."
The air was soft, but it had the exhilarating freshness of early
spring.  Frrm the cherry and peach i ros, each breath of wind
swept shOwvers of petals, to adrn the bridal of the earth and sky';
and the apple blossoms were just opening their little pink cups,
drinking in ruoisture and giving out fragrance.
Stansh's spirits rose as he discovered each moment   fresh
beauty. and a sense of lif' and enjoyment, such as he hd  since
his father's death. quickened his pules.
When th y reached the Ranehari's. Frank came running to mett
his friends. with a speed that showed the broken limb had firmly knit,
and carried Ernest at once This garden. to see is i  snowdrops
and erocuses. The old gardener. too feeble to rise, I  up from the
s 'ed bags he was folding, ad smiled a welcome: while Mary
showed by her flushed cheek and beaming eyes, that time had not
lessened the gratitude she felt towards Horace. Lorenzo had not re-
turned front his morng round of music lessons. but he would not be
detaiued much longer, she thLught. As she spoke of her husband. a
shade of anxiety crossed her face, and, loweringr her voice, she said
to Ella-
LZrenz br,'ught home with him. yesterday, an Italian girl, whom
be pkedip in the streets of Boston. She had just landed, and
Was fellswed by a crowd of boys. laughing at her strange dress and
talk. Yni know Lorenzo has a soft place in his heart for everything
Italian. but we have to work hard to live ourselves, and I should be
glad t find that the girl had sme friends in this country. who would
take care f her. I think she can't Ie altogether in her right mind.
She ;ays snch strange things wihen Lrenzy questions her. Won't
you comae up. Mrs. Standish, and sete if vou can't coax her to tell
someThin;: atout herself:
The Itasan girl was lyz up--n the led, her face buried in a mass
of black hair. Ella t ok her hand, and spoke very kindly to her in
Italian. A.s the girl s iwly raised her head, Ella started back with
surprise ~ Certainly he- had seen that face before. The perfect oval,
Oive v7mlexIn, full hps, and dimpled chin. were strangely familiar.
In ani.-ther moment she felt sure that this must be the peasant girl
whom IHorace had drawn in his vintage, the most admired of his
pictures : and yet that figure was sparkling with mirth and coquetry,
the embodiment of innoence and joy, while hopeless misery seemed
stamped upon the features of the poor creature before her. She
stooped down and spoke again. The girl listened with a bewildered
look, put her hand to her head, shook it, and then turned away from
her.

0

37

STANDISM.

At this moment Horace's voice was heard below -
"Ella, where are you? Come down and see this beautiful fuschi."
A thrill like an electric shock passed over the frame of the Italian;
she sprang up. dashing back her hair. and with eves dilated, parted
lips, holding her very breath, she listened - as shipwrecked mariners
to the cry of land - as prisoners. sentenced to death, to the longed
for reprieve. Again Standish called, and she dashed down the nar-
row staircase, and threw herself at his feet, covering them with tears
and kisses, and lavishing upon him all the sweet terms of Italian en-
dearment. Ella had instinctively Pfllowed her to the bottom of the
stairs, flaring that the poor girl intended to do herself some harm: but
at the sihrt before her, she eolored with shame and indignation. and
was hiUrr'Vinuz by when her eve fell upon Horace. His face was ashy
Jale. his lip. colorless and preswd torethsr : a strangelight gleamed
fri 1m his i'yes. and he stocl as motionless a if the iron's head had
changed I hIm into ston , leaving him no power to curse 'his fate.
Aftr a moment's struzzle. Ella's' anxi-tv for her husband con-
qored her iealousv an I shame. at what she sunposed must be love
defitih  y laless pass  r. and Ivinn: her hand on his shoulder. she
said. ' Il n it -l  k so. Horace :spitk to run. dearest
lie puh' hr hand from him. and r'ed -  Away, wonan ! what
are yi din  here ? "
I am your wife. arid have a rirht herr,. As I love yan, so wil
I hIrf vou to make ur f r any wrn: v  rma have done this beau-
tiful re'ature at your'fet.
Wife I who sans wife r Wives. I sa   " and he Ianzhed, wildly:
then turnin- to Elia, cried again. - Away from here,.-o are not
my wife : this is she, this poor child here : let no one intrfre be-
tw.en us. We are man and wi' i Away, I say. and take that boy
of yours : we'Tl have nc no if yoi hern'"
gli dre-w lack appalled : tien. elxnin: her hands, she raised her
epst heav-rn. ex-'laimning. '' Dear PI r1' . thou wht Last lived
ar-n i'ff#,red fr us in thi cruelI word S -i'd and shelter me now.
my b!hand' heart is turned frm m"m
An! tat arfle- was heard. Her boat. -slated here, hi-I turned
in faith           s  G  an is  P '-anl I'  bsee:llm. gave her zsrngth
to coito' I with her n-t 1, 'c h.
Goin: to Hrne-. sh- put    r   ruI his neek and gazfd in his
face, lie rmut Ithvb-en sri-,~ ne. U' that Ilok Ihid not moved
him. liis breast he-avedi, the wiI ire i I  cve- e'ee.  a tear
gathered the-re: te tear fI a:-n  n thY eye I the strn3#g man
God alo knew then suffeninz that wn:  it frm erhim.
4: 31rElla. bride o-f my s0ul, pare as an aneztl. save me from this
fearful' delusin ! 1" and' he clasp od hefr ihi  a r  : but at this
mr'Oent the Italian, raisin her-self, sei-i his ha-nd aI pr- sd her
burning lips u-rn it.
He started as if a live coal had to uc'hed hin: Iut he left that
hand without rnistane- in he r, whi- with t*e other. he pushed
Ella forcibly awa,t ers'in:. '" ba- n -  it is a- ireanm. as y'ou made
me think for a rnome'nt with that hears-rly ta"' of yours ! I have
done with you. andI with heat en, t o i she lires I feel her kise
burning into mv heart : it will never je ceool az-ain I " Then, turn-
ing suddenly round, he saw Ella leaning fir su pport against the

Is

I.

- 46k


STAXNSH                  3

wa" where he had thrown her. This sight seemed to increase his
frenzy, and stamping with his ft he exclaimed," what are you here
for? you are not my wife : can you not hear me? You are not my
wife, and this is no place for you  I married this poor thing in
Italy. She died; I've seen her grave: but what of that, she has
come to life to curse me:"  and he struck himself a violent blow upon
the head with his fist, to dash out the images that were maddening his
brain. Lla heard nothing more: when she recovered her conscious-
ness, she found herself in her carriage, where Lorenzo and his
wife had carried her. She draak somre water, -said she felt quite
well, -ordered the coachman to drive home, - then she fell into
another deep swoon: and when the carriage stopped at her own
dnoor, her senselea Prmyi was carried up and laid upon her bed, fol-
lowed by Ernest, weeping bitterly.
CHAPTER IX.
T  Deb'orah' sharp questns, why he had brought his mistress
badi-  such a state, a  what had become of his master, Daniel's
answers were siconfused. that for one' Short moment she"stood con.
founded. Then summoning t iLr al all her Yankee shrewdness,
she began to think out hlier plan uf action.
d'tpr'z put to it. what to d S. Shall I send for the Doctor?
N. benzowt. It s a dreadful curious st'orv. any way. Miss E114
may   nI neTIed rest, and dtetors have onues as well as other
folks. hall I . to Jamaica Plains myself, unravel the skein, and
be  '  -  --g  -  N  .     ,                -  --
kin a jitit.-N, it wsouln't d  to leave Miss Ella in this
state  Imnust stay  my 11h11. in spite f all these cawvirs-
n.  There-  Ms    tan    : I d:'t like ner. no more I don't
t Ika p      , e    I nd-harp, and sic : 1ut pickles are
I ke tr w;. UDe ea find out the truth, and she's straight-
spi ken.t tc
I~lora'smini wazs ma lipt.
P aniel drive rund ti the  Id gnlernans (it was still the ol I
gentleman's, though he 1ad reov e  I to a much narrow-r house ),
and say Mrs. btaudi is ick, ani wants Miss Standish to come
roun I right aw   i and  sP  her. And. Daniel, while Miss Standish
as fixing herseIf, find i 1 Jgmes, and tell him t' harness up his
team  and c me here with it. without waiting fir orders, le 's
wa   taki lit erti  and tis will be a liberty that will le ofsome use
to the family. And here. Daniel. mind what I sa',.-You hush up,.
as to what yu slaw this m'rninz: " and Dbrah layi  hr skinny
finger up'.n her lip. hurriedI up tohe: mistr.'s~' chamber.
Finding fr -m Ellasi~ 1~~    n ickenn      us ta    h   a
bec~in:n ferish. Te ae   r a entl oiatnepuane at 4h )was b
her bedLide' to watch the effect. Exhausted by all she ha' r,-g

I!

through,.Ella slept, and, a short time after, a ring at the door air
nounced Miss Standish. Deborah took her into the library, and,
in a few words, told her all she knew. Miss Standish pursed up
her mouth and looked severely virtuous.
a"Some Italian girl. you say. The usual tale, - crime, on one
sge,'jealousy on the other. - Not the sort of thing that I should wish
to have anything to do with : but it is my duty, and I will drive
out to Jamaica Plain at once."   Looking out Of the window-
"Wih, there's James, faithful old creature, just as I was wishing
for him ; the fresh horses will carry me more rapidly. Take good
care d    ur mistress, Deborah, and I will bring Mr. Standish back
as soon as posil, and set inatters straight before the thing can
get ab road, and occasion scandal.
Deborait gazed with a mo menritay Vfeeling of satisfactiona after tht
carnage, and said to herself-
"Now that's all gone as slick as greased lightning. If you want
work well d    n#. let flks put their owi wills to it, and think they
are a-d.oinfg it all theirselves. Whv. where 's Master Ernest ! forgot,
for sartin. jo't as if he warnt of no account !"
She wen't in search of Esty'. and found him hidden away in the
nurses', with his head under'a pilow. ashamed of his tears. but too
unhappy to dry them. A glass of freth milk and a piece of cake
worked wondrs, however, and Esty was soon quet enough to be
taken into his mother's rOOmI and laid -a her bed, where he fell
asleep toy.
As the clock was striking thr e, Mi-s  tandi h returned.  At the
first glance at her facet eborat saw there was something to be told
far wirse than anything she had feardti. Gra.ping a chair for sup-
lprt. Mis Standish warned u-Iat her words separately, and with
fearful distinetness.
-There - is - a - woman - there - an Italian -  ho - claims -
tto -his0 wre
" The villain : ''r1rke frr--n D-                   trh.
Mi-Is S:rni   v-h li-r t h-ar. r hi   : d-r the inte.rrnti.
--\fv Ir the-r Vis vr :amuch ox -itd - nearly frenzied with agony.
an the w man  i  mad with j v, r-:Ardhlts I all the misrv she is
cauinm  I 'an get -n, clear     ra-drom either  f thhm My
t.roth-rLi to- I  ''f tmh l-dul dcepti-a. - IIe says he mar-
ried h r -  hdid -hlie saw h-r ;rave - talked with the ritet who
burI I h r   nd  v - %h- i, rel tr'm the deaI - t     trtare
him   Ile is etn th - ve rg.  a era f. v-tr -I have  at tu  l
phsca  mtt   i       ; an      funI ou unti          Th clmess
a reu red. N- w. my dutyVt       y  ~tt' ant  e thid. They
lie al" ti  r --iitMsSa'ihIt mn It ther's hbuse - the
tao meant a d it ha been r,  I - that sh wa his lel wie
Resi'i' ftMi~  Stn~l-.hc nl a  I ge:rv 'xut Deborah's
.RespecIwi- t tfor 3I s  tand iancl
imdignati in from iir.aking out.
''nm all mv bIn mday-. I neve.'l hrj 9 suhblas  M   cil
betrayed and Ih rracedi -tuned Iui t 9 her * wn house t. mk
room for a low-bern Italian. It beats the Dutch ! If woan first
got man into a scrape, by tasting the apple, your brote  h re-
vengt d his wbole se in injuring Miss Ella. who 's a sight hand

s8o

STArnma- L9H

aft

i


STANDISH.

I

71

somer and sweeter than any woman I 've seen since I cum to Bos-
ton."
",Deborah." said Miss Standish. in her most dignified tone, " this
is the tirme for action, nut for words. Will vou ask Mrs. Statdish
to prepare to go home with me.. tr shall I ?"
Deborah ilun herself out of the room, mattering-
" a ta;rer must be thrust into my child's heart, I had liefer
do itMvslf.
Ella was awake. She f reed a adI smile. as Deborah bent anx-
iously ver her, and even tried to say she felt better. 11er old nurse,
making" an e ort to conceal hvr Pfelings. began-        t
- New. my dariiiz MissEla, VOu must be a godtgirl, rd do
what !Diegrrah wants v, te. Let me tak" yfou rund in the car-
flare t the  lI  entlean's : yu beI It quieter likte th-rft, andl git
well -  en. It this to pl a  I'i-ah. who would cut UtT Vr right
hand t- vr- you: there ' a db-ar."
O. Db'rahl. dorn't ask thi o met. flease don't. This i my
hme :      ;: es Ie the lft. though he 'lid push mI e away fr'm him:
he will  .--1     e se me  metina-., I knew. How dark the*days Wil-
be with h' i:in'
And th ptr child writhed in azton. anti wrunz her bands. a ite
bitter future trose before her. No n ore gay. breakfasts. wh rt- chiv-
alrous hrfage on one- tside. andwl Iy'val ov  n the other,  uht a
thuuSanl dliwspie4, satire. railnrv. and j- t, ti betray'l themselves
through -ll. N   * mire quiet intniings in ' studio, where, through
theptf*4 hr Ik e ftc the artist. h s-iaw for a brief  pace into
the wold withiL him, where  - utheu oie of sunshine, the beautv (if
beauty dwelt. N4. mn p'njleasant pnaci ins at twilight. vtice lend-
ing witu vice in ner!Crih harmovn .  rueI memory, will you Zpare
her nothin;:. -t n HIrace's mnckir: wt rds .
What'S the mat-r. C  ra ma f Yur handlY( trem1e. You will
excruciato MOI by playi: a fal0 ne pre-ently. One-must needs
le harld-aa*i te to si~ nhs Itaia   m~usie- er ! hveu ch. Eiskbt
years I  t ta was all 'rv well y-' ouldl i' d1"0ivb ut  r you
mtistkr wh'-* AwlittleI :1 tall  '  And t  :eOt':T nd'r   irtle
then a a     just whipvrI in nr ert. hwm: that hf li had
s0ughUy S .-. t         I wi-n rhart, he would u4t take Ps tits to
keep it.
And n    w all cranel-all : n-n    it   I nc'ttb - it nmt be1
somet drea xIfal drI'-  : and, wtretchins  'ut lh r armsw. wit cale-d,
lionate. m a jflne thait dr ve Imr1ah J ft rn the roo hi.etr welf-
ntrl e neletely ss:ne  ab-1im .   -en'red th- lrary. an 1.Iaid.
wiping hern  . 'w:th her aprn t-
Y!; 11 ha      t1ve  . d0 '  vri h-' K  two uW,4'-t 't.  I
did my b 't t,  t r p.: - with y-  blt                  up.
She gri'-' u--zme he s-nt h-r w tv fr4m'nualt : and P  tl dnm-t
the ww-- if 'h-v had ear.s i-- wen  f ka  ivr  I could : t k~p a
tie, u'r-
sti      r    wn I heard her.      r. tj   t knew    j-   been
wrnz :adas Po dV liwr a~e-h'w ' 'il ile sit suchl a n' ti'on:
honors  -. a ' Phaben all nor Ii n dr
Miw, standliwi wint urtisand1 kiwlu Ella. said v-rv kindily-- I
ha e '- en t ake y'tu Itnine wIth mr.e: v-r kn' w what a s-od. uu-r
I am, and y v u will'hurt in'- very mucwh if yo'u de nt let me take ec
of you until you are well."

I

-I

4A A

IS TANDL  -

41

"No, I cannot go from here, Anna: Horace would not wish it, I
am suie. I will keep everything in nice order for him, and pe
-he wilt come back - some day."
Here tars stopped her words.
tBut, Ella, lorace is not now in a condition to know what he
wishes.
He is ill, then," Ella erelaimed, prinsins out of bed. "I
must g to him at once. anti stay until he is w'll: " andI the poor
creature   ral nti t smOth her drt'w. andrlbrush out her curl;,
Miss Stdlish was provoked by Ella'; dulnesw. 'Can'r he Un-
derstdt " she thought. "that she must keep away fronm my brother
at presernt. with'at xy saving it in s ' many words:  A-ain she
spoke. this tim- less gently than t-fort'.
Your devtitn is very lb-autifudl, siwt-r. 1-it it is I'u . place
Po"w. Y-ui must think f votur'-lf. and van s'r.  L-k at that
Jleepin: lKy;: will you let himt have "cause t   bluAh fr his
another
There was uno t'we-l to sayn rm-  A fluJt of -  i'o cnorited
Ella'; fae. cl -rless a onsment I-f re. ani. runni-:  E EV, she
press-tI him - e, l  4lv in her arrn that he -awk- with t'- pain.
Nut reav naanrr IIl- was thewhat  it Anna mtant !Thn- there
Was trI'h it those wil wrd -If IIra-- - '  t ral'l married "1
She ha   t-* n-rrthouh    f that I  r. Tie tide  fe'linr was
cmp!it-ly 'hei.   Prii'd. which hal  unn)r1-1T   un1,  -n oWItt her-
self in h r  et  broast'U. w ke' now. innocn I :  r- putation
w're ot t1  ne in the _ers    w f tho w'rldII : but Estrv shu 'iiIrespect
her fnr th)   sa'r'-iti e shrelwnidmk'f r hi  skt: fr the di-nity
with whIn h -h  wobill tar the sc'irt anI pity (f -th 's" who had
flattenrd Iand imitatedI her. Si'kin: wn T'-r knet  Iy E.,tv'; side,
with htfr arn  still clasped rom  I hin. hr fh-art foud 'relief in
si ent Orav-r. ' 4h. Father, if I tdik tiw  ier un t Pth- Irzs,
spane rm 1-c frm sti  ha- and tdirraI . If I tear~ : alf away
fr-m I-- ti rery aLv. ani put mb- and miles I tw    n Horace
anti  v etf. kntwin: that a wtmr I                           yr k tf hi; w uld  reak my
str 'nwf~' rolutii'. zrant that thi sariVe m  n m h-  me re-
specte II P wts,. wh- m herea-fter. myw -  I w i' l : a
She r    frt  her kried. al  l d    : -. I ! I l  'rah,
and I             nbrd lr ti p  k up  nI ''thin: f-r Ern- t and hrelf.
-- N'Tid.  - hr - I" Ind- to mi'. An:.a. IJ''rac wt  ! I nevern let
mew itr nd an '4' myw wsma di"U   :a mvolf. I Ih iv nmy last
qnartrw    m'et i     i nlm dt   : P   w   di .fr nv -rrney.
I am :' ins ti myw un-e. in Mviw'oti  I will lPv -u  :tI~ ad iress,
and              ha wi- s 'ht my trustee' -    n Z, v ine I rt r nto nme.
Andi. Ant.   n will not le hv    n p   tne  r%-r. now that I
mut t- PVr myV TIwse what I taIe in  the Ibit -f givingg
m '   e .with me tornt L. ani we will tlk  veryour
plan; quiof       h x-inrrow. -
N' N : I taike tire Fall Riv'-r line Br Nt-w Y nk thi; afternoon.
MIV tjt jw n is mnad'. andl I ha4ve '1 timett ti spe-~' ns -Iwx;on.
It tth Attn a andI Deborah f-iz remno nstrance; wre uwle~  Twr
sense of a terrible wrong had, for the Km mentt. swept away all the
*


TADMH.

pliablity of her character its grace and softness gone, the strength
of will and of feeling, hidden beneath, was laid bare.
At last all was ready. She bade the servants good-by, ging
each some token of her remembrance. Paul's passionate grief and en-
treaties, that she would not leave his master, almost shook her res-
olution. Taking her mother's Bible from her travelling-bag, she
wrote on the fly-leaf. -
"It is not anger, dear Horace, but -my duty to Esty, that drives me
away from you. Write to me when you can clear up this terrible
mystery. Come to me. when we can be all in all to each other: but
not -iHorace, listen to my last prayer. though it is hard bq have
resolution to make it - not till then. God bless you, ------.EI."
While Paul covered' her hands with tears and kisses, she charged
him to go at once to his master, watch over and comfort him, and
whenever he mentioned her name, to put this book in his hands."
Anti she and Erntet and Deborah were gone, leaving sorrowful
hearts behind them.

CHAPTER X.

A.ovr half war between St. Paul's and the Falls of St. Anthony,
but far to the left of the main road. stood a log house. the largest
and oldest in the neighborhood. Fine trees'- shaded it, Virginia ereep-
ers and prairie roses efiinbed ever its porch : but its chief ornahnent
was a little lake. which lay at the foot of the green slop. upon which
the h use was built. . This lak&amp; was a gem of the purest water, re-
-markAble even amen: that chain of beautiful lakes, which Minnesota
wear? qpon her bosomn.
In the %h4dy porch sat the farmer, the owner of this broad domain.
upon wh 's high land; herd  and flocks were grazing. and whose
vlls weyre already green with tender grain and budding clover.
Hs dlay-4wrk was ver. and some loving hand had plaoed his arm-
chair in the position !at he liked best, where he was -.heltered from
the rays of the sun, and vet could watch it sinking to rest behind
the lake, ofidin; its raers with ravs of emerald, topaz. and ame-
thysine light. There, too, were his slippers standing ready. and ou
the little table by hi  ide, his pipe. tobacco-pouch, matches, and a
newspaper. Campil. ffr he it was, had just finished reading a
letter. which he .tIl held in his hand, and perplexity, rrief. and in-
dignaionsvere expr-esel upon his face. At this moment a figure
appear I at ti dr. a little firer, on the threshold between chi4
hood al idlenhol. Childlike was the plump form, with its fair
dimple iaInds andi ar'ms : the mouth too. and smile. were most child-
like in thfir swettn.  : but the brow and dusky, brown eves were
thoughtful as a wiman's, and the brown hair was demurelv braided
so as to encircle the little head.
Minnie, I was just wishing for you.  Here's something as
crooked as a Virginia fence. Read this letter, and see what vou can

14

make of it; " and Campbell lighted his pipe with a sigh of relief, as
if his little daughter could at least halve his troubles by4sha
them.
Tears gathered in Minnie's eyes as she read, and rolled slowly
down her cheeks. When she had finished, she laid her head on her
father's shoulder and said -
That beautiful cousin that you told me so much about, what
terrible misfortune can have happened to her? I can't understand
it any better than you can. She writes as if she were without a hus-
band or a home.
"lush Minnie, don't cry: crying will do no good, my darling."
Minnie tww, from the quivering of his voice, and the moisture of
the cheek that was laid upon hers, that the kind-hearted man's pre-
cept and practice were somewhat at variance; but she kept the
knowledge to herself.
When Minnie raised her face. she said -
We will do all we can, father, to make up to my cousin what she
has lost.
God bless vou, my little comforter: so we will. Though I
cant quite get the hang. of it, it is evident she wants a home, and
sure as my name 's Will Campbell, she hall have it"
I will give her my room." Minnie said. her facet growing brighter,
"because it is the pleasantest in the house, vIu kn-. 1 can move
my bed into my curiosity shop, among my ltwers and beetles. We
shall soon make her love us. and fuel at home here. Ernest can
wade in the lake, and get water-lihes f .r his motArh#r. and I will teach
him to row : and if you will break our little colt fOr hin, we can ride
together."
Thus father and child talked on. making; plans for the comfort of
their guest. unconscious of the dvpth of the grief they hoped to
soothe. the utter desolation of the heart they sought to till.
Suddenly. Campbell uttered an 1ib*us -But,'' and thn stopped.
Quick-witted Minnie understood, and su::ested ' M ther!
HeF father nodded an assent. and smoked on. but no longer tran-
quilly. Puff after puff of smoke rose, and enveloped I. uth in a dark
cloud : and when Minnie's little face cull again be seen, it looked
thoughtful and anxious. But, reader, there is a variety of resource,
a tact, an intuitive knowledge ot human nature in that little head,
which a practised diplomatist might have envied.
It had been Minnie's daily task to j in together what must always
fall asunder, a broad, generous, manly nature, and a narrow. egotisti-
cal, feminine one. But little Minnie never weaned of her task: blest
is the home with such a peacemakr.
As the last wreath of smoke died away. Minnie timidly said. MY
Cousin Ella -is she n4t very aceomnplishedJ. I remember you told
me they sang so beautifully, she and her
Minnie stopped in confusion -n.
*Well, child, what of it ?"
" Why, mother, you know, says she does not care a straw for
Latin and German, ~and all the other things Mr. Talbot has taught
me, and site wants mne so much to have music lessons. Cousin Ela
might teach me.'
" This is going education rather to" strong," cried Campbell,

P
p

U

.9

i 

A4b

A 10%
AN aw
%A

STAo,-Isa.


44

STANDISR.

3

STTDISH-

at

dashinglhij,}i* down on the table. "Can't the wronged child of
-  my sister find a home with me, without my making a governess of
her N'
Minnie hung her head with shame at the rebuke, and then raised
her eyes adriiriniglv to her fattier's face.
"I fP   as you do, 'but mother. - something must be -done to
reconei' . r to the trouble. Three more added to the family will
incre'aiS' her care very rnuch, arid she frets herself so over every
tridle, Sb- is proud od mv voice, and anxious to have it cultivated(
and w$ i-  ,ly suggest t4 her that Cousin Ella will help me with
LU--  V G S she' I said. " help me this time''
Well. w     UL "hi]t yvu kniw best how to eome round your
mur: 1 dn' undrtstand wmewns WaY.s "aid Carpelrll patting
Mnii                    aftr a pus.  Lu: thert's another
Yt I know. - the stri s tv will tell albt-ut my 'i ln fr'r'm
Mr. 1    r' . ±  wn t  Mike. LE rvlibly will have a tal' : '-o
Mr. T P      It .l- why, ti'r- heis nw "' and Minim's darti
d'wn± th :r-n 4    . mp' tr a ::tlman just e:er::rin: from the shru -
try- t o athi :.d Ih mnke '1' the Lake.
Y1a   V    me ju:t at the right time,"' said Minnie. as she
seized Ca Lhrl.
Ps i Jt nan I   mntimne  ome at the wrong one?-
Can v daubtn . said Minnie archly, when lyu- comes
often:-*
ied      acsh s you anl I are have no doubts : we areP
alwar glad tI  rsn, t' r we  ::mf rt and helj each  r.
"lou 4 that forme. but I '-
Hers' MIni raised hr i-eyes To lis with a look which said she
d:i not think her friend ould-"' eive cmfirt r aid frm any earthly
s 'ur-i, Yr. Taf t r~ e:ad the :lance, and sizhed.         *
Y   a e teabin: m' humility at this moment. Min'. I never
think 4' th' contrast V wein what you believe me t be. in that pure
httl : rt of yur. an I wi.at I rr-ally am. with-ut a sharp pang
and 'a :    t- rae myself t v 'tanf*r&amp;dar I.""
Wh1i we I his p'ar-bi-r hao  thiou1:1t ? r ough far:metr; buss-
ho'-o-rp all nmw 'unrit-d in t onion ienrning Mrv
Tal'         -    ain '  !    nt :ro-m heatv-n to d thn  and : .4
what      I'~   hi    aiI. t hv- hard him, whom thvy all I ''kedl
-upt1.a t   I             o t tf te14h1 and advisrs. esn&amp;nei  hi;s short-
can- M            i- 4'amel!   B-it Mr. T.albot' ehtice was a
i a'I MinIi the  -      ~nLnta. Fsr 4zeen vIi   o v-ars
t   - - hdI taiitrb her al he knew fron Iks,
amndJ anre                      The krow. from  th'r  ire'
ani               -a impo    le fir any on.' to have sail how
m       '       4 ri.a had I '- in eheerir  him 'Ol thru:: the
dara:mn     Ihadl enelimitered. in gathering
t' ':hhr i          'k and winninr: their hi-art;
"tntilI i wIc' mred Mr. Tal .t alm' st a; warmly ais hi; lanig'htcr
hi 11  -. hXone M mai- sw lhim 'mfraly sorel 1-y her father's
n'P-e said - \v I am £                    'n omk  oething youx will
like."tmae"                                   i

I

4

4

a-
iW,

"Stay, Minnie: you cannot make me anything I shall like as
wel as I do you," said Mr. Talbot.
" See if I can't! I shall soon come back, bringing my rival in my
arms:" and she vanished,, feeling that the gentlemea could talk
over her cousin's letter more freely in her absence.
In a quarter of an hour, she returned with a. pitcher of foaming
sillibub. After they had drank and praised it, agreeing that she
must feel great confidence in their regard to dare introduce such a
competitor for it, Mr. Talbot said -
"Now, Minnie, I will tell you what you are longing to hear. We
have talked this sad affair over, and decided that the best course is
to speak - the last thing a woman ever thinks of."
"What you know you are nit speaking now," and Minnie held up
a little white finger reprovingly.
The satirical smile (.u Mr. Talb''s lip changed to a very sweet one
as he sail, "I deserve your reproof, Minnie, but still I wean to keep
you a child as lorng as possible "
But.' Minnie persisted. "wihat is the truth in this case ? my
c using's letter is so confused, we really kniw nOhinr."
"The best of all knowledge in this case. Were we to account
in any reasonable way, for your cusit's appearance among us,
our words would become the foun datin of an e ihtice.  w'e propor-
tins and rules if architecture w aid be determine I by the malice
or benevolence of the builder."
"And if we give no foundation Af truth, .the erection will be all
the more monstrous."
Yes., but, without foundation. it will not stani: every fresh
breath will demldish it, to be rCuilt with the same results. It is
the truth minglel in a scandalous story, which gives it p'wer to
harm. Let us turn a deaf car to all the gosip  aind y-ur cousins
life shall begnn anew among us. If she bears her misfrt une nobly,
whatever it is. we will respect her. Andi now I must o: it is a lonug
way to the Fairbanks*s, and I bav' ril i John a vizit today."
 He is getting letter:? " asked (arnpbell.
Yes, slowly  but it j; a hard t riti :r an active man to be laid
low with fever at this season, and :w I hungry little mouths cry-
ing for food,"
- e must have help, there ' n s w  ays about it . Tell him
I'll be over t-morrow morning with tw  if my hands and see to his
spring work. Ar.d, Minnie, you :    ,n't:go there empty-handed I
hope :'
"I can answer that question. f    1r I 've often helped to unpack
her little basket, and wondered at the ;kill that could ccmnipress so
much in so small a space." A:. Li lig them g'vd evening, he
was soont out of sight.

rI

0Ai


STANDIMs.

SMAmDS.

46$

CHAPTER XI.

WTra a heavy heart, Minnie watched Mr. Talbot until he disap-
peared, tryig to gather courage to tell her mother of their expected
guests, and bear the first violence of the storm that she knew would
follow the announcement. Poor little thing, I am afraid she will
never make a strong-minded woman ! She shrunk from the thought
of giving and of receiving pain, and longed to run and, hide herself
in the hollow of the old willow tree until all was settled. But then
she could not let her father suffer a pang which she was able to save
him from. And Mr. Talbot would be so ashamed of his pupil if he
saw her hesitation: he who, if he had a disagreeable duty to per-
form* waited only to see how it could best be done. She would go
that moment, and she took two steps forward, - then stopped, with
the thought. "it is so much harder for a woman to be resolute than
a man. and I am not even a woman yet."
But this feeling of childlike weakness was Minnies strength:
from the days of her infancy. there had lived in her imagination a
majestic fi;.ure clothed i purple. The glorious halo that encircled
his brow dazzled her, so that she could not see the upper part of
that divine face, but the mouth with its tender smile seemed to say
to her. " do nit doubt my love: did I not give my life for you?
Come. lean on me, and you need never feel too weak to choose the
right, however hard it may seem.. With a feeling of self-reproach
for her momentary forgetfulness, she turned to her Heavenly Guide;
an arm was stretched out, and at the firm and gentle touch, she felt
that strength was given to her for her task.
3m. Campbell was in the kitchen, preparing tea.
"   .Oh! 't me help you. mother," said Minnie:  you know I can
cut bread as nicly as' you now. Where is Sally?
"Where, indeed, the idle hussy! I told her. as soon as she
had cleared away. to take some of the cold chicken and a bowl
of rice milk to 'Jessie May. You know Mr. Talbot said she was
suffer, fir want of nourishing food. W ell, 't was easy enough to
see she had n't a mind fir the walk. 'First, she said she had her dairy
foor to scrub. then. that Reilly passed by Mrs. May's cottage on his
way hern, and that he mirht take it. XWhen I insisted upon it, that
she should scrub her dairy floor first, and go afterwards. she took
twice as long as she need at the dairy, and, as she was going. looked
in at the parlor door to ask who would get tea if she wa n't back in
time, Thiis is always the way : as soon as one gets a servant trained
to their ways,. they begin to give trouble: there 's no gratitude in
'em. The pains I have taken with that girl! She was so ignorant
when she came to me. she could n't wash a dish clean."
Ueetiwradbl it be, to follow Mrs. Campbell through the whole
of her tirade against servants in general, and Sglly in particular. and
quite as useless to have suggested, that no amount of gratitude on
Sally s part. could annihilate the mile of solid earth that separated the
Lakewood farmhiose from widow Mar's cottage.  Minnie spread

14'

and cut the bread with skilful fingers, and listened in silence, until
her mother paused for breath, then she answered, gently -
" It was very kind in you, mother, to think of Jessie to-day. I
dare say she is feasting on the chicken now.  Father will be very
willing to wait for tea, when he knows the reason."
" Willing to wait," cried Mrs. Campbell, who had recovered her
breath: "ves, of course he will be! 'He is always willing to wait, and
tells me ifI would n't scold and complain so much, all would go well.
I might slave myself to death. and he 'd never wake up to thank me, or
find out that I was doing anythincr. Well, the time will co 'me when I
shall be worn out:" (if predicting one's death, led to preparing for
it. what good Christians Mrs. Campbell and women of her class would
beceme : 4' and I hope she that comes after rme will take him at his
word. a'id smile sweetly, and sit in the parlor, waiting for the dinner
to cook itself. and the cream churn into butter. and the dirty clothes
turn inti.# clean."
I am ure father knows he c;'uld not gc-t on f-r a day without vou,
dear mother, and he wants to consult you now about a little matter.
MV cousin Ella has met with some dreadful misfortune. She has left
her home in Boston, and, with her little boy, and old nurse. begs a
shelter from us, until she can make some plans for the future.
"What, here! come here!" exclaimed Mrs. Camnbell. in her
sharpest key. They must sleep in the barn, then. I have bat one
spare room, and that is for strangers.  Your father invites every
traveller he sets his eyes on. to pass the night, and yet he would n't
leave me a place to put em in."
11I will give up m 'y ro,-om,_ mother. You
" Not to be thought of for a moment : but it would be just like
your father to let yo-)u do it His usual style of benevlence. - turn
his own child out of doors, to take in the daughter of a man that
despised him. I remember very well - river P irget such thiap
-how Mr. Daltn treatted him when he wrote to offer him all he
had laid by. at the time his brother made that disgraceful smash-up!"
" Mother you know how anxious you are to have me take music
.." '
"Certainly I am; I would give more f ir it than all the strange
learning Mr. Talbot has taught you, Latin. and German. and Geom-
etry, and things whose names I can't remember. and that a lady has
no- business to meddle with.  But what 's that to do with the
matter:'
"Co usin Ella is a very fine musician. You know she lived several
years in Europe, and toAk lessons there.
"Can she speak French and Italian'!
Father said, when he came from Boston, that they all. even little
Ernest. spoke Italian and French as easily as English."
" Then we might make her useful for a'time. These are the things
to make a Laly of you. But the nurse and the box. - we can't get
along with them: your father must write her to leave them behind.
" It is too late to do that now." said Mnne. gently, though her
heart beat very fast. " They are at Brown's hotel, at St. Paul's, and
we must send for them early to-morrow.
" Gracious goodness me!"
Astonishment deprived Mrs. Campbell of the power to say more.

*1

47


4rANDISH.

TAsDIa.

By this bold stroke Minnie had won the citadel; she had made her
mother look upon the arrival of the travellers as inevitable on the fol-
lowing tLv. and she now secured her advantage by entering into all the
domet%ic arrangements, which must necessarily be made. Bread to
bake, more coffee to be roasted, and their beds, - where should they
sleep? In vain Mrs. Campbell raised difficulty after difficulty,
slight barriers of resistance. now the fortress was gained. With un-
ruffled sweetness, Minnie overcame them, one after the other. until at
last her mother, weary with objecting, went to toed, ready to rise with
the first dawn and provide for the comfort of her guests.

£1

CHAPTER XII.

Tax sun shoe brightly on the Sunlav niorniri that followed
Ella's establishment at Likewoiio,l. The waters of the little lake
seemed !e.srklinzr with jy, nor was the lawn l s brilliant with its
diamond--tudlel c eowebs andg clden butterrups. 'V1e birds too
were sin ig their mnorning song of thanks1ivm1. as the family bent
their stips towards tue little church. Their road wa, 'ver an undu-
lating rw-alw dotted with gr ves of sugar maple. ash. and birch.
The church sto 4i upon a plateau. several feet above the road. It
was shadlel ,n the riht ly what seemed an oaken grove : but, upon
nearer view. this proved to be a single tree. the monarch of the
forest : while. ion the other side, two elms with urn-shaped trunks,
stood in sisterly emlrace, bowing their heads with soft normurs to
every breeze Iit raising them azainm unstrippedl of a single leaf.
The c-hur''h itself was a simple wooden building. paintel brown.
But whei Ella reached the pireh anl Ielked in. iIItevadl tf the bare
benches. r 'uzh floor, and whitewashed walls she expected. here
was a beautiful little chapel, th- harmony and perfection if every
part making it worthy to be callo-d the hou- of God. The ceiling
was painted in fresco. the wind' ws were sof richly stained glass, the
floor of Italian tiles. and the pulpit. altar, and seats, - there were no
pews. i-f carvel oak-
Beautiful, is it not? (whispered Minniei: The parish built the
church. b'ut Mr. Tallbot sent abr il for the windows and tiles ; and
a poor fioreigner. whom he ha'! a ited, proved to be a skilfud carver
in wood, and out of gratitude to him took so much pain, with these
seats."
Yes," said Ella, " the interior is beautiful. in pprfoct taste. I
have never seen in this country any windows si nchly painted as
these. Mr. Talbot is a man of fortune, I suppose ?
" I don't know. lie spends more than iis salary in the parish,
father says: but he never seems to have tny wants himself."
"I wonder he did not build yon a little stone church at once."
"Why, you see, niece." said Mr. Campbell: "Mr. Talbot 's real
cute. He aint one of those innocent clergymen, that seem as if

they 'd always fed on their mother's milk. He knew that, to make us
value our church., we must all have a share in building it. *We.e4,'
he said to the parish, 'you take the outside, and I'll take the in-
side ;' and so he did, regardless of expense !"
Mr. Talbot's voice was naturally fine, but he had cultivated it un-
til its varying tones expressed his feelings as readily as his thoughts
clothed themselves in language. That solemn appeal, "When the
wicked man turneth away from his wickedness, and doeth that -which
is lawful and right," coming from his lips, awoke the conscience and
forced the acknowledgment, '-I have sinned: and while there is
time to repent, let me turu to the Lord, my God." When he knelt
in the eonfession. the fervent supplication of his tone. sail as plainly
as worls. "pardon we all nee'd: bt as my responsibilities have
been the greatest. so have my errors been." But when he declared
the absolution of sins to such as truly repented, it was no longer the
.iniful man who spoke : a priest 4f Go.d, in the authority of his holy
Office. his voice full and clear, tilled the little church, and carried
peace to every troubled soul.
An irv oppression had weigh.!i upon Ella's heart  er zinee she
former her resolution to exile herself from LirHac that day of
suffering and temptation. She oild find no relief im words. or
groans. or tears : every feeling seemed frozen within her. Where
was the sympathy that iad dimpriled her mouth with smiles, or
[rouzht the flush to her cheek at every kindly word and generous
deed . Had she, who could weep so readily for others. not one tear
to spare for her own grief?  Worse than all, one who had such
need of prayers, found that her suppiications were mere words of
form, cold and lifeless. Whnu she hail turned from her earthly
paradise. b'ecaus'e its enj4yments were no longer innocent, the gates
"f heaven semed to have clszd against her.
Now, in this little church, she 1ekran to feel a snftenin induence.
Tear after tear rolled slowly down her cheek. each carrying with it
a load of icygnref, until her spirit seemed to rise into a liirher life,
to enryv a s.rt f dIfoble consciou'ne. to l k wi:h e*mpassion
upon the Ileeding heart beneath it. and liw with gratitude towards
Ilm. who had worn the crown itf thornsi , and, through the extremity
t human i;uffering. had made his humanity divine.
ir. Talbot's sernitr was a rimploeione. his text. A sewer went
out to s4Nw seed .  but h  manaed,,l ts arrest the attent',  of his
rustic patrishioners. and cheat them if a Sunday nap. IIe began
with a description of the Sea of Galil.'e. the citron, the date-trees,
that elithe its banks,. and the ,wit-si"ntel shrubs and flwers that
bloom nupni in its borders.
"i Uptn the smooth. transparent waters of this ea, he ajil. " In
a ol;at pishel a little way from the iore,. stood the 'on of Id and
man. anrd spoke, to the multitude p   around him, wr is such as
never G44 or man had spoken [efo.
lie d erinbed the nature of a see!. 'he living germ of a plant, suir-
roundedi by a little store of nourishmuent. ti keep it alive until it 'should
find a new home and new support. II,' then called ti nina the prep-
arationws they had been mikinz fir their spring crop. the pliughmg
to clear the ground of rank weeds. andl break up the liar'! sol :the
harrowing to level down all u',.ennjess, and then asked th--mi whether

49

I

11

.48

I


STANDIMS.

they would de less to prepare their hearts for that divine seed, that
germ of li -   truth which our Lord offered on that day to the
multitude on   shores of lalilee, and this day to them.
He then drew a (Temparison-p between the varying seasons and our
varving' states. Spring. with its genial sunshme, quickening soil,
and refreshing showers, the season fr planting our seed.  Life-
giving summer, glowing with warmth and beauty when the swellincr
embryo bur-t-; its bonds. sends up a yunr shot. clothes itself in
green leaves and at last blossoms ferth in full luxuriance. Autumn.
the harv(-zt time. the crowning  elcry   f the year. when the fruit is
gathered i-s.  All these. he shexwe-. were but  vrhols ofl our Aut
our nitri-v. and our ace. lie th.' sptke of  -inter. the Tiint when
nature   .-pSt: the icf-bueijeri fl thte I!d. the long rn efht of
the hot   i     and aske whot  r hrwere nlt times when we fdlt
this wiu r with  us : altter a teri  4 c:tinued excitement. the re-
actin fr gn rrat p e al r mt d exertion. when our 1.lo  Iiow
sluggishlv. anI mind and biyv will t ke their rest : or when ,.-me
sudde:.   w has fallen upon u  P. The tirt efl ct - are often a kind of
torpr: wo wr that. insteael Of 1 ,in, we' fe.l a cekll e relIon, as
if altt hm  W    feLiag were  unIl in icy chains, an 1  leng to
awak e  evn thOu:h it lulst be t  p :: rini'.  Bit patience, weary.
crush. 1 and ledlec'ine hcar,  wait f rCd'l time: in mervy he has
%ent thi wvintor f re4t. A  wh n u rri1 htion i.- tir-t rest red to the
frozen liIb. eal drp cf lbbl ~.i a ; e icicle. ferrin its way
threuh v-n t o sma!d t e ad    t. to annizin  wvill b. ve
awakeninc: lut y':r fr zen p:!P    will quiek'n with a hi::her life
than they have over knitwn b- 6 r that life of which it is s idl. ' Ile
that Iesf hi" ife the sam' Thl fnd it.'-the life f love, humility.
and self-sacritice."''
As Mr. T dA  wal died     wav. El fit the dull anaithi a:tinj
settle up n her B it she w fle nI e.n:r h epeless : The hi I faith
that t, her thvre w nl al- e ;  a f l awakenin:. a peri1 4f
greater utTeri:.- than any h-h  . i :ursl. ari vt a irth into a
new life.
Ilithert, wh ha I live I in th m:i lst of the w 'rid1 its m-iny enj.v-
ments and i ~am ha I pr-re'l .1-IV n: up her : ,.-lf-Idulee h Il
4n :dwys in c tniiict with  I-a 'ritie  N w. dine      'it a
ha.n . with!-' a name. sh  ~ t   If i th  wAirid tinler her f
Th-, er a wh: h her hiT I h el       It      Ii . wh.- w e. leW
pres t- her heart. gratrfl  r '   ri  wh6 h  ! sw'. awa
the mi-t ..f arth. anrd -b. n.'  ~r 'e b. r. M3  at ('L;airv a,
thie serene hearr' aove-.

CHAPTER XIII.
ELLA had been about a month at Lakewood, when, one morning, a
package was handed to her. She recognized Horace's handwrit-
ing. anei. running to her chamber. locked the door and covered the
ltter with tears and kisses before she broke the seal: and when
this was done, a kind of remorse seized her as sbe thought. -- happy
seal. vou are the impression of the ring upon his hand:  and putting
the broken pieces carefully together. .The held the letter tightly
pressed against her breast, while she walked the room.
And all this time she has n4ot read a single world. What nonsense
Exactly so: the nonsense of the head is often the hearts best
sense. as yiu may discover f er yur'-lf some day, criti.e.
At last Ella was calm enough to ,%It dioWn arId read thc"e blotted,
ill-written pages.
"VCMMER    FrREE. BosToN, June 1.
%Why have you derted Te ? I have btee very ill. and one
to uch of your F-oeft hand would have den" mre fr my aching head
than all the medicines in the worll. Anna had me brought here,
and nursed me most dutiful!y: it it is hard teo be grateful for
duty: when one is longing fir love. Paul. ureb el soul. stay.-l  y
me, night and day. andl wh-n I was abile te read it. put yur Bible
into my hands. Those few weerdls o.f farewell madie mue weep: I
bo ewedl mv heal aid cried like a child. The tears se4-emeI to) melt
the tire from my brain : they save I my reasitn. ift nt my life. so I
shell not reproach yeu. My Ella. hew little Ile'rve your heart.
and yet the 'enly comfort there is lft mi" in life. is that it is r±n. If
I were to break it into a thedusanl piec. ich pier' w''uli thrh' f r
me ale. I'  ut when shall we seeeel ea  ether a::tin !  u  Gl;
what a fat". te have a human life intezrpe  between all ecur hap-
pine% : :uihjssefion tO such a l et iimp'J le : I wtneler d lenge r
at tihe crimes despair has ledl men tee emii~t.  The' tire has beenz
driven fremn my brain to burn about mliy heart. But I will not ;paim
you etiby deleseribin.g whit I iiutTer. your e'tler nature may have found
peaet(e. while the centiet of conertendei nz p'as ins st ill rage,% within in"
1 hive a strange tale to tell yeu. - as  trarie a it i tTri. It
will give y'ou a key toe part 4of the mystery that has separated i us.
andl as sooneL as I am str 'ng cough tee trzivel, I shaill g'' abreeal andl
final w ut the rest. P~oeor Violet - rnv wife I will i' et il her - ean
tell me nothing. She became Se vife ient. djerin  n y ile",. that she
was obelize' tee be removed to th.' .mervi!:' Asylumi. where she will
lbe kindly cared for.
New listen to my story. I must beein with th' peri..I after
my mother's death : when el croessedl th.- ecean. mnmi toee cOnl
with mv studies at Ileidelberg : lbut. sriless andi leWlv, I 4 !t a
if I haed noW no) one to lire'e er we rk f~r. I never knew my either
until the last few years of his life, -- i may almost say u:si hi-

51

50

I

S-rAmXDsu.


52

8TAors8H-

last iness. He indulged me in my boyhood in every reasonable
wish, but his manner towards me was cold and reserved; while
money-making, an occupation for *hich I had no sympathy, seemed
to me the object of his life. Heaven forgive me the injustice I did
him.
"-My mother, Ella, was so different from you. that I hardly know,
how to make you understand her character. She had none of your
variety, playfuluess, or strength. She was an Italian, all passion
and tenderness.  11er husband and child were her world: she
lived but for them, and her intellect acted only through her affec-
tions.  Song was her natural language, and- her voice had great
influence over me. My earliest recollections are of the gusts of pas-
sion that would seize me when my will was opposed. Frightened
at my own violence, I ran instinctively to my mother, who would
take me in her arms and sine to me some sweet hymn. Her voice
would completely subdue me. and my tightly clenched fists would
open and cl.sp her neck. Thent he seized the moment to tell me
of great and otr'od men who hal struggled with their passions and
learned to sulblue them, until I 1,.nged to follow their example and
conqu.-r myelf.
" But to go on with my tale. I yielded to a desire to visit again
my mother s 'i rtliplace, and went to Italy.  Here I wandered
about, with dute and sketch-book. liing among the peasantry, and
finding a welcome in every cottage.  My music so opened their
hearts to me that it was difficult ti make them take any return for
their hospitality: A  I ysurn.-yeId suthward, I constantly said to*
myself, - One(lay more of warm sunhine : one day more of cloudless
sky. and then I will stop, return rapidly to Germany, and make up by
my diligence for the time I have waste 1.' But, every day, the scene
became more glowing and impanis ned: the flowers mrnsre beautiful
in their tints. the fruits of more deleciss flavor. It was Septenber.
the time of the vintage: as I write, the whole scene rises vividly
before me. In the distance. the mountains, with snow-covered tops,
their sides cl.,thed with ma; n er t rests f oak and chestnut, and
near. on every side. heds attus groves of orange and lemon
trees, and vines, ladent with puirp e fruit, wreathing the mulberries
in rich festoons. I threw myself d )wn under a tree to rest, and drink
in the beauty of the scene.. Aiove me there was the pure blue of
Abe sky, around me the osft green of the foliage:; the well-sustained
vintage chorus came t4' my tar. minAed with the song of the birds.
Every sense was 'stevped in 'rrjsyment. when I was startled by a
sound jns~t beland me. A lau.Th. and then some broken snatches of
song. The vice was so jyul that, repeating to myself--..
- Withyrc:.arkee orne
Lonenu r'anner tm.- '
shadow f annoykance
N're-r mrn near thee:
Thou Lvr,r iut nc'er knew lore's sad satiety.'
i sprang up. eager to see what bemeg it *as that laughed and sang
thus. Pushine aside the bs'uhes behind me, I saw first a little peasant
oy'. holding i asket iti which grapes were raining: then looking
ip to the tree aOOv, a w-iturned anle, a hand and arm of ex-

TANDS.

53

quisite symmetry, and at last through the leaves aface. 1la, you
have seen it in its misery, the eyes quenched in tears, the feature rigid
with suffering, and yet thought it beautiful. But no words can de.
scribe it as it then was. Coquettish, vivacious, innocent, joyful ! the
full lips parted showed teeth of dealing whiteness: it was a face in
harmony with the voice. I was unperceived, and, opening my port-
folio, rapidly sketched the group before me. At last the boy turned
round, saw'me, and gave the alarm to his sister. who swung herself
to the ground, and stood under the tree, blushing and hesitating.
Curiosity drew her to my side, where her brother was wondering at
my sketch, and timidity held her back. How lovely she looked!
y life among the peasants had made me so familiar with their habits
and expressions, that I soon made the girl feel at ease with me, and.
seated at my feet, she let me finish the sketch at my leisure. A boy
of eighteen and a girl of fourteen soon become friends, all the wcrld
over; under vJtalian skies, they still more rapidly become lovers.
This morning I had felt sad and lonely. My senses were intoxicated
by the beauty that surrounded me, but my heart was unsatisfied.
But when the'day drew to a close, I was helping Pedro bear home
his heavy-laden basket, while his sister Letta carried my flute and
portfolio, and as I saw the girl's eyes droop thoughtfully under mine.
my heart seemed to have caught the gayety I had banished from hers.
.. I was hospitably received by Letta's mother, whose language
and manners were more reined than is usual in her class of life. My
wish to make an oil painting of my sketch. furnished me with an
excuse for remaining.
" When I sat down to work on my picture. Letta moved about the
cottage with a light step. assisting her mother in her household oc-
cupations : but, at a word or look from me. she was by my side, con-
cealing under a thousand little coquetries the pleasure she felt in
being near me. In vain would I tell her to hold up her arm as if she
were gathering grapes: that beautiful arm could assume an endless
variety of attitudes, but never the right one. until feiging a dis-
pleasure I was far from feeling. I would begin to put away my
brushes and paints. Then her penitence was bewitching : she would
kneel by my side, press her lips to my hand, and tell me how good
Letta was going to be, and how bright. tso. for she was c'oing to un-
derstand all I told her to do. S.eing me incredulous, she would
spring up, put herself into exactly the right attitude. throw into her
face the arch vivacity I had first seen there, and, for tifteen minutes,
no artist ever had a better model. Then, glancing at the picture, she
would exclaim, 'oh, you will get it done too soon.' and run away.
" When her work was over. and Letta put on her holiday bodice.
and bright-colored skirt. her beauty was heightened by her costume
every hour her expression grew softer ani more impassioned, and
her sighs were now dearer to me than her smiles. I found it delight-
ful to support her beautiful form in the waltz, or join my voice with
hers in the simple songs she loved.
"Such were the days of my first love, Dlla. - days of bewildering
delight. Frankly I tell you all: but you have no cause for jealousy :
my senses were'entranced, but not my soul. You have often re-
marked the miniature-like finish of this picture of the vintage. Per-
haps you will wonder now that I never answered. your questions

N

1*


TANDISH.

54

STANDISa.

more fully. or spoke to yio of this portion of my life. You may be
sure, my darling, it was nLi want of coniidece in you. but my own
weakness, I shrink so fromt pain. Already the joys are over, and
see, I linger, miserable coward that I ani. dreading to begin upon
the sad part of my story.
Conscience had begun to torment me. and I had resolved that, as
soon as my picture was tniishe 1. I woull go. Letta, I thought, my
beautiful 'tta. will shed a f'w tears at parting- andi, at the next
vintage. tall in love with some peasant lad :I aIte shall really suffer,
because I wil not pluck thi- !.Weet WilI tlicwer. wear it fir a time,
and then leave it t   i'ni. crken. and faded, hy the roadside
" Little dlid  I know. as I ;.raze'l toidly upon u  picture, girit a
lighter teouc'h here, thr wie. in a darkr had thE're. What this work
was tee be.' tie me. -the fuidatiol l4 mymv r'luatii" a an artist, of
my unhapiness as a mani.
I had nit tried to ci nlc'almv; ynam eiw 4r tati.oni fiom these sirmiple
people, but my love fior art ha-l Iced th-e'rn to lereVe' I was a traveling, r
painter. my well-tilled pur.e'. the earninr :sOf myi laKr : si that. when
the sal day came for me to carry out my resehtin. ani I tried ten-
,lerly ti break to Letta the n.cesityv fer mv deptrture, savn" -
 Because you are so dear to me. I must leave yviu: we canot
marry: a marria-m- htwen perser widly t eparat-d lv equation
and position alwav 'rn. rmerv to Ifth --
Letta dirc'w h'rselfhfrim my arms. e*-ryin:. ' I  s tickl. and false,
mother: nicthini' newh: he has fallen in  ev-: w  mme eun  mitre
beautiful than his pocr I-tta. an 1  he says h.-  t o muh i
gentleman to marry her.'
-6Letta's mother, Lucia. at this, I roke into atorrent f threats,
denunciations, curses. and replrEahe  with that Wronderful fluency
ot utterance that belongs to tL.r rae.
"ou know my temp.r. Ella . it is 1-y no means a gentle one,
now: then, my blood b i!c I at th  ,lighte"t pr*vcatin  I determ  ied
to leave the house at enee. thr. w my purse (n the tabe, et mv
portfolio. flute, and  valfse  an  was  aprea hinu r the  cottae  e r
when I'tta tli'w oit uip en me  k -an enra  'I
dashing. her cheeks ey   and her ack hair streaniing --hor eyer
shoulders.-nhe
Tell rime who it is y i l1ve ' 'she crid:l  ' yoQu shall nt it zc until
I know. I will be revenged en you both
I caught her in my armt. --it was such a satisfaction to hold this
beautiful creature. that I ft;lt  i tgy with, and loved at the same
time o madly.   itelwith  ll mv force against mv heart. But,
Ella, I fiurid tim it tev14#1 t~i  passion. is noet the way to con-
quer another. LAtta s      srn "led tiercef- at first, and tore my hands
with her nails : then ~ea, red bcy astrentxth she ciul]rot're.t
and  a  Love  she  coul i  n .t  b.-l itft..,#        ,      ' c  It
au  ', he resentment rmedl into
tenderness. anl, claspin: her armis round mli neck, h whi 1-
s# et. - I knew it. It is not true that
you love  aryy  ne'I mcrc  thin  p  sr  Ly aou  cannot  marry  her
yo il ae                  ttwt  out  a  If       .e-
y d  wi l t k   e   ih v '.  i i waton  you.  to  cut  your  pencils,
and wash your berus.hem. ardd she will be so good. and edo irhatever you'-
wish"
The temptation wa,. t ca strong for mue. I promised to take Letta

away the next day, to devote myself to art and to her; and to make
heur 'bauty immortal on my canvas. But, at thia moment, whenzelI
but love was forgotten, ILtta's hand touched the gold chain that
held my mother's picture : and such is the mingling of love and jeal-
ousy in'the Italian nature. that, all her doubts returning. she dragged
it fr min 'y neck so rudely, that it broke. and the miniature fell to
the gromil. As she picked it up. she cried-
It is as I feared: vou de love srnebody more beautiful than
L.tta. an1 here is her picture.'
l. ifr tone was now so sad. that I ha-tened to say, 'I d1 love that
L lv mIos i;t devotedly  she wa niv mother 4_n earth. and is now a
I :,Ire'ti upon the miniat ure in Letta's han 1. my mn'ther's
warnie :~ rtn her deathle  r se t. my renemibrance, h r t  ' r ees
poier'ei n : like a la-zer. and' I r.stilved. cost what it night, to go
J u' 11,t Ltv. a irisakle
j.- IIiAe.1 a0e UpenPrceive1 by ti-, andt looked at the miinia-
tadre   r L# -',tta's zsloulel.'r.
It i L t a C  i1nte 1s Vit letta '  she  cried.  'my  hinoredt lady. my
f-ttr- istl'r  Where did Vou get this picture from  Then ntinr
'tar-Vo Slidsaw the truth, anl fdll i her knees before ne. -It is
L ii. ar litv'-sin.  Fr HOm the first I felt I h.l known hint
I  r.lit1 hI nre            .r hu e by cmin to it. and I have
L~~r   ,It I~ I wV wi thta-l.ir '.   Lr rve rtue .r yokur
nit t!k iki                irand thle 1*1Li1 ivo: cr. iure c Vtrel mv h.nis with
I    r-n1l k h r f mv  f  riene :. n: all  the  ime. heow  much
a  :r  ha         i  t h r.  All tim!' u tit - sall i  urs of that
af tern   y -1,! l  e n w   sa t  h.-th   V i  lt  - a,  I   .call i
her, 'etur  I f In wh i  i p  I fr  iy  mother. -  lay  h: tel  with
her .ar I  nd        r     i Lucia talkeid f her dear ]a ly. She
h,  h a  t  r         r        eete d . with  hir  b l v V i" m stress,
) wi t h   her Qpenek''n if wih iuch Iteve anfi
an:te     arWhile all I  Iari r'n..wei my  rief at hr 1448, it
Srvrn ti( .  h r4l EL1E re  M1I EP n ilet wa n w as afe with me
-it'he ha I iredo been my little ' ter-itteIr. I pruadld her to lie
id#wn an rcs't. when th nicht w ti half Ipqnt. and then till Lucia
thAt I,hold go, at the dawi f 4i . iTh ut a ain seeir: hr itugh-
ter. and that a marria- pvrtLiwhich would Make her the richest
lcrif llnthe IllI. ad I hope nIth' hanrciet wife. 4hz-1 14   plae'i
e i t  viAm t N  d.q.-fet toLucia's disc rtiion.
im my alinki'r's hands at          ti.       i.
-to~e a-asoftl intt early aiwn.f feelhng as if. with Vit 'let, I
I stol1a1a1soa la
had left behind all thi sunshine of my life.  Res' ilutely I took the
rva~l frN iples, anJ hail 4, r. more than a mile. when I roloelocted
my         r miniature.-Vi-let hal taken it fr m my neck, when I
kissed h.-r for .cod-night, anl put it romi-l her Ewi.  .   in
:ft  r" ~q #n.I frd not nticed --1this htltfle.at
the I Trt to control my emotion.  a
hut I now saw it was a feminine rniee. to prevent my going away
withut eei~ he.  Itured rE'und and walked back for my p'otuiro
~~ht mdnes.  eilwil sa.  il. to return to a danger vou ha
.us e      Iae  from  ' W1i  L".d you not have sent a m'senger
for it .'
"Yes, I was mad, - madly in Icive- One open temptation, by a

4I

1

I

*1
jf


smADISH. H7

great effort, I had conquered : it took a more subtle form, and I
yielded to it without a struggle. As I drew near the cottage, my
heart beat with joy, at the thought of holding Violet once more in
my arms.   I hurried up a narrow path shaded by shrubbery, and
obscure, in the dim morning light. My foot touched a body stretched
upon the ground. I stoe,d. and found it was the senseless form of
Vilet, the bloodI gushing from a slliht wound in her forehead, cut
by a stonre upn which she had fallii. I raised her, wiped the cut,
and pressed the edges carefully together with some court plaster, ex-
pecting1 each moment that her eyes w.uld open. and her lips smile their
thanks: but she remained unco1nsieus. I felt her heart, to assure
myself that it still beat. and my hand was drenched in bl1.d. Now
really alarmed fr Vi o-t*s lif. I hastily unlaced her bodice, and
drew out a :-wall stile'tt, froin her sie-je. bo1,und the wopund with my
handke'rchwf. and carried th-- por chi. Utoo the h use, and laid her
on her own bedl.  When sht-,pened her eyes, she saw only her
mother. and cried -ut -i
H \ wre y-u so cruel as tc lri:,' me to life again. mother
He has gie: I saw him 'e 04 lswa the path without asking for his
picture. al I will not live wit bout him.'
I went t, her bedkido ail whipspered ViPlet: and oh  what a/
change that word produce.  The oimed rushe-d to her cheeks, which
were ghastly pale : joy toek the place of despair : she clasped her
arms s4) ti;rbtly ab#1Ut MV no-k. that I co-ould not unde tin without
hurtinzr her: al yet she had .'pa(Ad the bandage upen hr wound,
and we wear. bo.th dyed in her eld. This was our betreethal, Ella
I vowel to rijake up t4) her for every drop of blood she had shed for
me .eto) make her my wife. Scarcely had I spoken the
word. whei a shudder crept over me, - a preseutiment of the misery
iii st;#re  fior u~.-.a
Vbu   i Lv pale and exhavsted, for many days, rarely speaking,
utf  mvements with - her eyes. uneasy if I left her
re      ut r--paym  mv attentiiens with grateful loeo'ks o(f love.
thez      1    recovered h   strength, we were quietly married by
thle  '-ill &amp;re  rif-st.                                     g
aElla.rw e have' known the Ales4elns of married life--
"'There are tw9e  w! oe pulses thill
Inu niion 4 4o e     pustr
That pue to pukt r 'peniTe timl,
They boh mut tnil. or cease t) beat.'
e) that. th'eugh divided by hundreds of miles. and a most fearful
destiny, we still think and fel tether: and fr us both there is bcut
one death. eSCerat 11. - one life. uril- ..1
Taketh eepsite of all this, and! it will give you something of
the hierreors cf a ill-assorted match.,marriage I will n't call it.
Two notes Ntruck at once. whose tones are discordant. - tw;i pri*.
oners hateat alwys s   k t break their bonds. And vet ours
wasna lemehfia the lve that remained made this want of har-
momn' ~e dflt   - tobar. A word from my lips, in praise of a
coans hetyalr virtue, was sure to rouse Letta's jealousy, and
cause her e nsar a man ner of ftspiteful things against her whom she
choe t  ~sier  rial  Ifths be an attribute of womankindj, I

cannot be too thankful, my darling, that there is more of the angel
than the woman in your composition. Letta's jealousy did not even
conline itself to her own sex; my favorite anthor, my brushes, even
my letters, were snatched from my hands that I might look at my
Violet, and you cannot wonder that, after this process, I was much
more ready to torment than to admire her.
- Thus two months passed away and things were growing worse.
Violet alternated between fits of jealous coldness and pooxysms
of passionate devotion, both equally distasteful to me, when I re-
ceived a letter from a fellow-student in Germany, telling me of his
mother's ill health. This mother was a widow: her husband had
tilled an honorable post under government, but, occupied with
public affairs, he had neglected his own, and dying, left nothing
when his debts were paid, for the education of his son Ernest. But
Madame Ruckert, full of energy and talent, had, with her pea, se-
cured a support for herself and the greatest advantages for her son.
And new, when I remem     t-  the pictures which Ernest would
draw t( me of his future, hen his mother was to be repaid for all
the sacrifices she had mae for him. and contrasted them with this
sad letter. where he said he had not the means to try for her the
only hope the physician suggested. a year's residence in the south
of Italv. my heart swelled at the inequality of our lots, - I with
money to waste. and my friend with none to save a mother' life.
-- it last a plan occurred to me which I thought Madame Ruckert
might agree to, -a plan to benefit my friend and educate my wife
at the same time. I wrote to Ernest. telling him my whole story,
and proposing that his mother'should come and live in a quiet country
house near Naples, for a year, with Violet, undertaking her educa-
tion3, and receiving a handsome salary in return. My proposal was
jeyfullly accepted. and Madame Rackert set out at OneCO to jo minus.
Violetwas vehement in her opposition. when she found I was to
leave' her and return to my studies in Germany. But the beauty
and comfort 4f her new home, and the dresses and ornaments which
I provided feor her, soon reconciled her to a year's separation from
Me, while her ambition wa- .Uused to fit herself to appear in society
as my wife.
1 i returned to Heidelberg and entered with zest into my old life
there. Madtine Ruckert's letters were all I had to remind me of
the past, and she wrote most charmingly of Violet, de'seribing her
dilig.rence in her studies. her softened manners, and her great musi-
cal talents, which enabled her to overcome the difficulties of the
science with wonderful rapidity.
" The last month of my college course had begun, when a break
occurred in my regular correspondence with Mladame fRuckert. I
wrote to inquire the cause and received no answer. A rumor
reached me that the cholera was prevailing terribly in Naples and
the surrounding country. Leaving Ernest to settle up all my affairs,
I travelled, day and night, until I reached Naples. Then. with fresh
horses. without waiting to eat or sleep. I hurried on to \ ol.'t. Ab-
sence had dulled my remembrance of all that jarred upon my taste
in our wedded life; :sbe'was again the Violet of my first lo ve. And,
as palaces, villas, gardens, and vineyards tlew by me. and I neared
the beautiful little home I had chosen, - a nest on a wooded hill
8

4'.

I

56

57

STNaMu.


STANSo.R a

near the Bay, where the distant mountains, the ever changing
beauty of the sea, the ever varying glory of the sky, could be
seen joining and blendig  together, - my heart beat wildly with
expectation.
'How the reality differed from these pictures! My knock was
unheeded: 1 Iorced iy way through a side-door and found a de-
serted house. Clothes, furniture. - all in disorder, as if banditti hadl
been at work among them. There were Violet's copy-books, in
which I etill s-t her progress fromnn the first straight tuarks, to a
round child h hand. l Upen a tld-le lay a letter frOm.u  Malanie 1Huck-
ert to myself: it broke Uf su1denlV in the niht of a playful sen-
tence'. I wat ti- the h.use ot -ather Brunetti. the prices. who h1LI
married \   it ;.d mysej. The good vld ani grew pal.. at twe
bight .f nii.
't-  . he  u i o a rikern vi1o', - the chole-ra. Lia was first
s..ie   h  ilv twentyv-I ur hoUrs. MadRLWe 1ekert w  '
had nurM. Lu.I. was next takit n ill. I s4rt a physician andI med-
icines to ysur villa : but it was i vain : shi died in a f1w dayv. I
was ntfow hurried frioi deathbid to d.athled, amiinistering, the
holy my*teries f the hu:4h toI the dying. The pe:til.enc' res4'ctel
Ueitihr rank. wealth.  r iauty : 'all distinctions were levelled be-
ftrt: it.  h- i was a14t to go 'aigainu to yur h ue after Madlaif
Rucke'nd'tI ert\ d'ath. I fmfti.sewrvant hal ili. and Volet. distracicl
with gnef. st-I by the lediteib of her brother 1' Ir. P) Or Vi4plet
she rs :d ( care an1 rest herselt. andi here she was aloet with the
deatt-- tricen   y. I sought for a nurse antong the peasant wi omen,
ovfering.- the hige'st wages : but all cared more for lie than nonev.
At last. M alalena. vpur wife's cusin. touched by the picture I
drew of V\ letS S situation. wentt to her retlit.
.til the pestilence str.de 'itt, and in its fttal path loath fI-
loweIl death. I MarCely c'oub.l snatch food r sleep enou;: fpr the
necessities of nature. whflt hurrving from villa to r tta) r  a c't-
tag' to hut.1 was expoe'tinte daily to be sumnR   t1t' I to p  rir the
last rita , of the church fIr pr Pedro : but hearim-z iott ttirS frm .n
him. I lvpil t was rec  rin, when, at the end ot -a w'-k. a rumor
reached me that the inhabitants of tte villa were alt goe, ani that
those human'% ultur-,% who prey upotn the dead and the  dying. hal
been se-en to come from your h 'rme, laden with sp4ilk. The story
seett" 'too hrrible to believe :.but it wa  true. Thi' pi'a.zant girl
had th-d  th'r' we"te tw, corp%w, for rute to bury. vyor if' ltand
her  orrh r  'm' with rnn. anl I will show you thir gra es.
I ask'i whri I culdi ind Madlena, wishing ti )hav" fro' m her
some acciunt f V ilet's deathbed : but her farnily hal rimecid to
a (istat vi 2N . t" ."'.cape the p :tilence,. and Father Brunnctti had
lost all      e   the. .
kr                  EIIP rattr, Ella, fIt. pang of self-r.'proih I fet, as I
knelt in   \   :t rae. I hadl j11- d ti  harshly the faults of the
simple caan ,.ir : and now that thu. warm, heart that hadl loiv'ed me
so pas, at yv had ceased to beat, I felt again al'ene in the world.
Anter raismr :a simple m'numntt to Violet's and Madame Ruck-
ert 's nemuorv. 1 returned to Germany. Ernest and I became closer
friends. now that all other tics were broken. We: painted, studied
art. and hed erne purse between us.

" The year that I first saw you, Ella, Ernest's health began to fl:
I took him to Italy, but the seeds of consumption were in his coo-
stitution. and he died in three mouths after our arrival. You have
often heard me speak of 'Rim. He had the tenderness of a woman,
the strength of a man, the eye of an artist, the soul of a poet. I
often pli'use myself with the thought that our little Ernest is like
him. in more than in name.
"And now that I have told you all'I know. I will obey your wish,
and not see you until we can be again united, and not write until I
Caa tell v ou low the tomb has rendered up its dead : how she, whose
grray.' I wat*-rel with repentant tears, for whose soul masses have
t.e'n sai 1. should have suddenly appeared to destroy our happiness.
Fir woo were happy. were we not. Ella f But why, by the memories
Uf the p it. make the present more bitter " I have been moreta
a week writing this. and yet these blotted pages would be illegible
t'o oue wh could not read with the heart. as well as the eyes.
"God bless you and my' darling boy.
"Ever unalterably yours,
" Hoxer.
"June 9."
Ella dlid not leave her chamber again this day, and she passed
the nizht in bursts of passionate weeping, and wild, incoherent
prayers. But all sense of injury ltft her, after reading Horace's let-
r  It was evident he had been as much deceived as herself, and
was as great a sufferer. Her prayers were chiefly for him, and there
was comfort in the thought that they still felt together.
DeI ralt. whose watchful eyes saw everything, and who treated
her vunzt: nistr.'ss like a spoilt child. would not allow her to) get up
the iwxt morning, but after bringing her a cup of tea, shut out every
rav of light from the room. and leift her to sep. At noon, Ella
aw -ko. and to Deborah's delight, asked for one of her white dresses:
ad wht-n she wont dwn to dinner. though still very pal. her in-
terv' t iU evi'rvthing around her, showed that she had founl that re6t
which is promised to the weary anl hi'avy laden

CHAPTER XIV.

ETWAnUI TTALBOT sat before the table in his little study. He had been
writing '-ince breakfast, but ntow he pushed away his papers, as if his
sermon were finished. and bowed his heal upOn his hands, while a
feelin- ofdelspondenev crept over him, such as all feel, at times. whose
aims ani aspirations are bevonl the power of' accomplishment upon
earth. Comnparel with his' high ideal. how low his own character
seemed: still erring, still struggling, far from the perfection for
which he longed. And his work, too, though to those who remem-
bered what the state of society had been when he came among them,

I

I I

58

0"

SrANxmSH.


BTrAsA6

IMANrDUM .

the disregard of law, open vice and secret crime, it seemed almost
miraculous that one man should have accomplished so much ; he
could now only see what he had left undone. His heart yearned
towards those who haA strayed from his flock, and the awful thought
oppressed him, "God gave them to my charge; Christ redeemed
them with his blood, and I have left them to wander and be lost."'
We can all of us preach, pour out dull moralities, and point out
the faults of our neighbors, that our own virtues may shine the
brighter by the contrast.  This style of preaching, professional or
domestic, in the curtain lecture or the pulpit, has its uses; at least,
it teaches patience. But this is something very different from the
gift of the great preacher. Very varied have been the characters.
and temperaments of the great preachers of the world, but in this
they have been alike. Wholly devoted to their great calling. reason,
heart, soul, imagination, ali joined to give the kindling lire. or the
melting tenderness to their oratory. Through the darkness f false-
hood, and the mist of materialism, one ray from that soin whose
light is truth and whose warmth is love. the sun of the heavenly
land has reached them. and in its fire the pretensions, conventional-
isms, and deceits of life, have shrivelled like a scroll.
Inferior as Edward was in tent to these men, he had this same
earnestness and truth, and this was the- 'f.cret of his intiuenco. It had
cost him a severe struggle to break the ties of affection arwl friend-
ship that bound him to his home. to leave behind the admiration and
stimulus of intellectual society, and enter upon luis self-apro 'nted task,
to build up a church in the -heart of Minnesota. But, having doiae
this, with the resoution of the general who burns his ships that retreat
may be impossible, he fought the battle of life.
A knock was heard at the door, and Mr. Talbot hastily raised his
head, and forced a smile. as Minnie Campbell entered with an armful
of books. But she was not dlecoivil by the smile. Without a word
she untied her hat, and seating herself by him, said in htr sweet, low
voice --0
" I know why you are sail: yei work so hard to make us good,
and we do so little ourselves -
'Ie tries ech art, rproven each dull delar.
Allures tu brighter wrhi,, and leads the' way.'
"But he doens not get discouragrd ,: that would never do iin poetry,
and it will not do in real life."
Here Minnie looked at her fri. d. with a saucy smile, wlif was
now answered b:y one quite as bright on Mr. Talbot's face.
"Right. Minnie : it will not di: von seea little sympathy. flat-
tery. and repro~of. make the pill I needed)'
"And a great deal of affection 'v~u leave out the important part
of my dose. without which the rest would have failed."
"Right again. voung philosopher' It
selfish, that makes your sympathy  latteris  dr love, tr, an  un-
ful.  Child, sister, friend, all in one. - anpupil  ut
forgetting your lessons in this unusual burst of setmn.I hp
you are well prepared, for I shall make for itbimenlt.t oe r
severity."                          eu       tb    iteeta
Virgil was opened. It was evidenrt Minnie's teacher had a nice

ear for quantities, and was hard to satisfy in the choice of language,
but she did credit to his careful training. When Mr. Talbot began
to read her French composition, he said at once -
1 You have been helped here: this is better French than you ever
wrote before. Your cousin must be a capital scholar; you had better
take lessons of her" -
- Oh. may I, Mr. Talbot ?" 'interrupted Minnie, "I wanted so
much to ask -
She stopped, alarmed at the frown on his face. It disappeared at
once. however. as he said, sadly
I spoke in jest, Minnie ; but your eager tone shows you really
want to change your teacher, and why should I blame you for a
child's love of novelty ? Take lessons of cousin Ella, and while the
charm lasts, the new teacher will be better than the old."
- OhI what have I said. Mr. Talbot : I knew it would hurt myself,
Iut I did not think it would hurt you too. I thought it was right, or
I should not have tried to say it
Her sobs choked her voice.
" Minnie, I have been unjust. I see it all now: it is no desire for
novelty, kut some little self-sarificing plan you have, that you think
will be good for both of us."
No, not for both : I did not think it would be a sacrifice for you.
But it seemed to me that if I gave up my French lessons, and you
would give that time to Ernest, to teach him Latin. it would open
his mother's heart, and you might do them both so much good."
Yes," said Mr. Talbot. sighing. '*that 's true: I might, and I will.
But let us comfdrt ourselves with the thought that it is an equal
sacritie for both.  And now, my child, I cannot stop to talk any
longer : a poor fellow has sent for me, who has been imprisoned on
some false accusation. his brother says, and he depends upon me to
have his innocence proved. I must go to St. Paul's and inquire into
the matter..'
Then oPu will be too tired  -
" Not t'oo tired to do my duty, or you a service, Minnie:,indeed,
they are gtrierally the same thing. Speak out, - what is it?"
"Why. Jessie 'May. Poor little thing. she has been suffering more
than usual for the lastfew days. She cries and frets to be taken up
and allowed to run about again, and her mother, when I left her yes-
terday. begged me to ask you to come and see her.  'One ofhour
minister's visits.' she said, makes her patient as a lamb; he 'a
doctor ftor soul and body both.' "
As Minnie was speaking, the door, which stood ajar, had been.
opened. and a sharp voice answered -
- It 's a shame. Minnie Campbell: thee dost not know what thee
says, chill. Is n't Mr. Talbot likely enough to wear himself out
without thy tempting him.Oh my    the work he does. and the
little he eats and sleeps; " and the thin, angular figure shook her
head from side to side, rolled her eyes up to the ceing, and strik-
ing her hand upon her withered breast repeated, " oh my ! oh my!.
oh my.'
Minnie looked frightened, and well she might : stouter nerves than
hers had trembled before the sharpness of Aunt Peggy's tongue. If
report spoke truly, her violent temper, so different from the usual

I

t;

61


STsH.                                                                                     3

self-control of her sect, had driven her only son from his home.
Mr. Talbot came to Minnesota just after this event, and succeeded
in changing her wrath against her boy. into remorse at having made
his home so uncomfortable tto him.  To give Aunt Peggy some
object in life, and complete the softening influence he had begun.
Mr. Talbot took rooms in her h   ouse. *n condition that she should
never scoeld when he was at hen.  It was hard to sav how many
times this contrdition had been broken. -noit seven times..but seventy
times seven.  A word fruni him, however, stopped the stream of
melted LAva. arid the vdleano coeoledi down.
Doubtless his imagination was haunted by the ctimmirn vision (f
a being created with intellect tl appreciate his. ani heart to love
him onV. whIf e happine h,uuld cosist in supplying his wan:
without ruihug his temlier. er opp siLe his will: still. eu'de 1 h
gave his idal, among her other act.pLirn shments. a kn#,wledee f d.-
mestic life in 3inue sta, and ener:v t  met it'4 eereniee, he
w!'uld n1t4 have been as e [ rzabb-. under hi  minirilt"rin;  pint's
care as under Au t Pe'rjo. wle h'usekepin,- skill was prver-
ial, anl who weoull han: iai i1! dwn her li-. though she c4ul I n t , r
temper, top please him.
A knock was heard -at lthi fr  d -r. and while Aunt Pe zv ran
to see who4 it was. Mr. Talbp  -id -
" Don't be alarmtel. Mim  : z'is- p fks sharply. but mesm
kindly. I will let the' 1d Lvly prspr.- a nice little dtimzer f. r  mne'. -
a talismant. as she thi k,. a  t fatigue anI exposure: this wil
appease he'r. Anneliw a  ut J-sie. I shall q  detainlleo late at
St. Paul's teo-Jay. but t P-in rrow aftern-#on I will  " an i see hr:
so if you can tepin4t your m u-in and her boy ti wa!k as far as th.'
cottage. we will all nit there. Ploq r little thing. I must think off
some new amus.mTet fr her. I shall drive I:Iandi in m V Wa:n
to the .tage, that y u in iv take -yir co usin he me, who i net a'-
custednl to ur reugh eCu: ry walks: and pihais - if y..u I-k
in thee ttm inet reybue:-.  will wne mthi;:."
S ih  tell  nc- I I Ith  i   r  .n1,r A, se .' "
Neverrind. iMi  44;ri .I  it tke  t'a with  v u  f: .
and try ti carry tot yr ula
Minnue s eyes ip.rke  Li. h e    wil! % t' niw. - v a: th."
reottage. al have'yi r th                   B eir  Hut Xi '  Au~ t
Pet1,r(ry  1TrinMb- k:Py    -
lb-nt i. ut with a ke''  sri'  A . th'  I i  iv hfndel
Mr. Talg   ti  V d.; it.              -.  A  ",atiri.al emi!, u
his  lij. . %. i  'I I yrr        the  c tente. b'  pikd
Mut the ot  t   tj  -    'n ,ences that implied tir re
than they ex1re'" ---13r V. I    an has had. an1  br lt1 wk -w
.rv mil epre     -     iv ce" al -' him this ate'r'vrnon.-
thmnks yvu h ice nele .'. I h m i let .-- a '.isit trm teu i's niie,-
sary  to  rais' hii  spiri .'
T .raie  her. it  ma v  I ." n e 're d  Aunt  Pe:::v  But  h r  i
are1 up te wild prainks on  l. wth--at thv aidl. i my day it Was ni't
theu:ht s.'rmly eer mn !.'t f r mn c la ts mrit - bacheleer tee'tha htiie
Wha wou21ld~ my1mthr hav e theen'ht if I 'd -lone such a thiner ---oh
my . I houldlhve'bee  re'pre vedi by FriendN fer tfirst orience,
and read cut of meeting fr the seece nd."

Mr. Talbot laughed heartily, and then said. ",If you do not ap-
prove of the invitation, you will not object to say to the messenger
that I pass this afternoon at St. Paul's. and am very much engaged
for several days : but. on Saturday. I will visit Mr. Upperman. And,
Aunt Peggy. I must have dinner at once, - soe- of o vepur Lice,
tempting little dishes. for I have a great deal of work bef re me.'
"-Yes. that thee shall. I have a tine prairie hen roasting for thee,
al 1'11 just go into the kitchen and bteat up seo of those fritters
that thee is so) fond of. It's ill-working on an emplty stomach. my
either used to say : and oh my! the heap     f gefoo things she'd
prepare, at Quarterly Meetin: times. Th.' ,Swise to wait for thy
dinner.' and, iodding her head approvingly, Aunt Peggy disapo-
netared.
CHAPTER XV.
Tim: next afterneonn Minnie proposed an excursion to Mrs. May'a
cttae to Ella and Erne"t. Be'fere thev could answer, Mrs. Camp-
1ell t1ritke in -
--lHow can v' u think of suc(h a thing. M(innie' Askinz your cousinl
-t, take iuch a walk as that. ani ove'r a prairie'. toe.' 1 dare -ay she
has never leen on a prairie in he'r lito."
o~ iut I can make a be.inning: I want to come a gmeat
walker. anti rinam all eeve'r the country.
Th   vou 'l lie sure tee l 1t. ant the be1r'will eat you. as they
didl th. " n f a neihber of gurs. who e wandlereet ofii 4 Onday. in-
stead   I e.: tee c'hnrch: andeI tiy ervedt hiu right, t'q.
D  th, lears alwavtiedz that .''" akedl Er:.'~. aiuy.
I e what ? Eat lit tlee bev when thoy stay away frm ! burch  '
i    Mi:mie.  I he nee p r I night Itse a   nl in myv f myv :Tun-
:V " ,   I l  . But. imther.,il    rea ce'rtaily trl t !  T rry
ELf    I L i'Ent ly a pth Cithat I take ne'irly every  y mysvNelf.
It -, verV We11 for v u."' sail Mrs. -apbleell.  lit we shall
likelv en.uleh h               1 rain, and Ernet wil tk'  t the
crnIp. . i make a hap of troubb-:l eies. 1   :  uc   lve
 yrupej ih Ii hu:o'  Remylv' son. the' fat one. .e V- V hi~t n e."
empi~tie' I the t'1 li'l e hofr he was siekenel 1:by it :i h : ep he' e the
.4ounnehl e f an 'strich: an.t Minnie. y iu kn..wWe ,e  e' w- h  i:'e'r-
l eadu I--ft. I wanited yV'u tee make sime cake f r XeI
-- ' mther. the sky' is so' clear. I ede nct th'e ni'w   this
aftern on. int ISal will find time fer the cake  I:A~  hen  I am
,n: w  P   t  ,e4.!  ne 'e and  snel  te  tak  t
otep. c'hihl. This is always the way with V  '  i[ eee na-
dav. th."v neve--r will mindl their elders, lbut. it' ye wv  t ake a
parka.' e ef ,' rn-starch toe."
- Y c.I am et glad yelu thought of it. .J.-je has net hadI any
for a long time.".                            ..
The p irty 't off'. Exhilarated by the bracing air ai brItioht sun-

62

&amp;63

ST~ANiSe.


64

STA1DIS.

shine, Ernest ran on before, then came back to meet them with
handfuls of strawberry flowers and buttercups, which he tossed over
his mother's black dress, saying. "Look like bright night, mamma,
when the stars are out!"  Then he began to persecute Minnie, with
questions. -Where 's the prairie, Cousin Minnie?  What does a
prairie look like?"
"YTou will soon see."
"No but, Minnie, I shan't know it when I see it, unless you tell
me what it 's like. Is it green "
"Sometimes. but now it has all the colors of the rainbow."
" A prairie in lblo.omin," said Ella, ''how beautiful it must be! I re-
member Bryant 'aVs, -'These are the gardens of the desert, I"undless
and beautiful."'
They had now reachel th. tp 1f a slight einence. and. looking
down,the'r saw the pr ciri- sprea I'it4t at their feet. like  a son
Eden. Aintrig the r.liIf  w . ve. s W f v ra . the cOIAnvh ius twined
with its blu" a A white IL w'rs. It'li bleds aif pink. an!i purple pllex
were dottead akut, and that I velv whit.' vari-tv which has a w~arl-t
centre. There we're' du? r, 4f larkspirs. pur:. :.k. an I white :
while thet whole air was fra-rrant with the wil I r 'I and %w.-'triar.
It was a sigrht. which a desci.ripti tCan giva nIN   idea -f. a b # a undlt'ss
we    expanse. 'ver which nature had scattered bra 1at the n  t beau-
tiful formn and  Ilors.
When   ur party  am in si ht :f Mr . Mav's atta:. Minnie
Said, "Therno,' s _Mr. abts uvaiI ad           Rni :f's1rwvar.d1
she lean tstrarke the heat 'of the noble animal  wh. ar''b'd his
neck. ani rublbed his n.ae affectionately a ain't h-r arui. Nor w.s
Roland the nly ,object tf interest to Minnie :ihe 1-kedI a:.rlvint tP
the bugey. bht. when s  saw a larz:. lun11- earafuIlv ca "r-ef with
paper,r she tur:nd away, remintkrin: that Y- had: len'r iven
permission to 1,-k 'lto  his waxon. but At itio anyIh z it m i;.rbt
contain. Th' cottage' a1r was open. aud thv ea t!rr ib-tv. The
bare taloor an1'ioal table w re white a.s :sc'oturi-1: c  i t 1ak#e them.
the tins up.'v the wall redtt  the Ii ht. ani i th-- e - . 0: vtre was
as well p Iishe  as a .b1ndv'i boot-s. I'r'mr an a .:  roam a
child's vaia'a' w   Iin' M p-  I-h tones.  " L.t us wa:T." whi p.red
Minnie t, Ch: . '  .ti o.-s 1 ±L finished all h.-r ap.aii t I. and let
Mr. Tailert - i h r a little * mI rt before we  r
--Pain. p  it:.  thi:z Z   p  1a   rI in't pl ir dav .i n..r ,! 1p nihtq.
Here I ha.v- t lie. tire I wi: 1 -in1 nothi'n. whil-' m ,thr wear
herself oui w--rkiY.: fr im, an I I want to help her. .d I can't.
They say I'  -- pa %Inr;- I frt l.a I m t -rateful en ; zh iIr all the
learnin: Mi  3innie has tauz'ht m' ani all you h       fe  e fr me.
Mother i-; alwav te'llin:  e thi. an it I supp ~ it i. :. but nbd al
knows hew rny h*'Art abes. wh-n I tI-  the c'hil1dr-. th it . '  tea
me. playing ibout. Irui". Mr. . I don't wa'p t - take away
their happ i.  t I want t. he happy t o. An I vrv wh-ked*L''
-Nat at all wi. k'd. mv  ill1. ':t not y-t g-d eno uzh tac be
happy in the situa1tian in which .;d h.as phce.I ye u. 1t is far harder
to wait, than taa w ark, Jessie. Yru were' wrenr.. h .weve'r, ti say that
no one knows what y. u suffer : y eu have neC friend, who 'sympathizes
with everv pars: and would wipe aware ,e-orv tear. if v'.'c would let
him. (me. l-t meia litt yeu in my arms' Do noct be afri'id. you know

I

TANDa.

65

I can move you without giving you any pain, and the change wil
rest my little Jessie. There now, are you comfortable ?"
"Yes, I feel so nice now, my back does not ache a bit."
"Then I will tell you a storv. In a far-off eastern land,i that
blessed time, when our Lord walked upon the earth, the fame of his
kind acts and holy teachings spread abroad, and parents, who loved
their children. said, I will go to this great and good teacher, and take
my little children with me, that they too may look upon him, and
hear his words. And they took them. But our Lord's disciple.,
when they saw the children coming. rebuked the parents, saying, so
precious are the words of our beloved Master, they must not be
waste on children. And the children were turning sorrowfully away,
their little hearts aching as yours now aches, with the feeling, I am
VIy a little child. I do not understand myself, and there is no one
that understands me, when two arms were stretched out -o them,
two kind living arms, and a voice of heavenly sweetnt ss said,
Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of
such is the kingdom of heaven." Pressed lovingly in those arms,
so)othed by that voice, all sorrow left them, for they rested on a heart
that knew and sympathized with every throb of theirs."
Jessie's voice was now gentle and low, and her eyes moist with
tears. -Yes, but Mr. Talbot, what became of the little children,
when they left his arms?"
"Some of them never left his arms."
"Did he hold them always?"
"Always. Jessie. Sometimes they would do wrong, and then it
seemed to them that those arms were withdrawn from them. But
when they became sorry, and tried to do right, there were the tender
arms still encircling them, there was the tender heart still ready to
mourn for their sin and rejoice in their repentance."
" And did they never leave his arms, when they were men and
women.
"No, Jessie. They never were men and women, if you mean by
this. able to walk alone: they became more and more dependent,
until they were angels in heaven."
- And are his arms round me too, and does he love me so much as
to want me to stay with him ?"
'' Yes, he wants to keep you with him until you, too, become ab
angel in heaven."
There was a deep silence, for several minutes: then Minnie went
softly to the door of the inner room. and Ella and Ernest followed
her. It was evident that loving hands had sought to make this
little chamber as cheerful as possible. Gay chintz curtains shaded
the windows: a table stood between them, ctevered with books and
knick-inac'k!: the most precious. two Bohemian glass vases, a gift
from Mr. Talbot. which were never allowed to be empty. In
summer. the children of the neighborhood picked the sweetest wild
owners to ilI them, and in winter. many a brght geranium and fr-
grant rose were brought to Jessie. to mix with the ferns and grasses
she pressed.
Mr. Talbot had seated himself on Jessie'a couch and was holding
her in his arms. Poor little Jessie. once full4 of life and activity,
darting like a humming-bird from object to object, so that tangled

1

t

-


66  ST~rDIH.                                                 rAnDa-                    6

eurls, blooming cheeks, and roguish smiles, all mingled in rainbow-
like beauty. So it was on that sad Sunday morning, when she
danced about, all dressed for church. A robin flew out from one of
the upper branches of the old apple-tree : had he a nest there?
Jessie thought there would be time to see before her mother would
take her to church; there was, indeed, time for much, before Jessie
would again go to church. Haste, the consciousness that her
mother would scold, should she see her climbing a tree on Sunday,
and in her best dress, too, made the agile foot slip, just as it reached
the bough from which the bird caine.- She was picked up senseless
from the ground; her spine had received an incurable injury, and
thenceforth she was chained to her couch.
It was a touching sight: the weak. suffering child in the arms of
the strong man, -a sight to make us weep. and yet feel pritut of
our humanity, fallen though it be. What could he whose life con-
sisted in the fullest exercise of body, intellect, and heart. know of(;
the weary tossings of the child. condemned to lie still while she
was longing to work for her mother. and picturing to herself all
those wild scenes through which she once roved at will. Yet this
and all other forms of suffering seemedI to have had their symbols,
at least, in Mr. Talbot's experience.  Held within , the narrow
bounds of his parish, by his sense of duty, at times he had longeI
to take part in the great contests of life, where man strugg'les with
man, and he had been tempted. by the memory of past success, to
wish for further triumphs. Bravely he had struggled ag ainst these
desires. and. by his own self-conquest, he had earned the power to
help others. For now, in the full rigor of manly strength, holding
that feeble form with a woman's tenderness, he sought with fervent
supplication for her the peace he himself had found. Mysterious
power of sympathy ! From a human heart a throb had risen. and
thrilling through the mighty heart of God, back it came, the divi
mingling with the human, bringing rest to the weary soul. Jess'
lay trustfully upon his breast. her eyes closed. their black
lashes still beaded with tears, but her lips were parted with a smile
of holy joy.
Theo greetings over, Mr. Talbot laid Jessie carefully upon her
couch, and calling Minnie to the window, said, "What do you think
ofit ? I"
" Of what?"
" You know very well."
"But I don't though. I know what you mean, but not what it is."
"Did you not look?"
"Into the wagon, but not under the paper: you did not say I
mht. ,"        14
Ern  t," said Mr. Talbot, "Come ere: what do you see?"
"A very pretty cousin," Ernest replied, with a bow.
"Much more than that. - a woman who has more honor than cu-
riosity. And now, Ernest. not to test this prodigy too severely,
-suppose you tak"' the covered object you will see in my wagon
very carefully out with both hands. and bring it gently here."'
" Yes, Mr. Talbot: I will be very careful, and you know you
es trust in" not to peep, because I am a man."
An amused smile was Mr. Talbot's answer to this assumption of

V

manly dignity, and Ernest quickly disappeared,  d as   M
returned, bringing the mysterious article which Mr. Talbo  ed
upon the side of Jessie's couch, saying, "Here is a plaything I
brought you from St. Paul's; see if it wili not amuse you whm you
ae weary and sufring."
Eagerly Jessie took off the paper, and then such a Good of delight
broke over her that she was for a moment the Jessie of old, with
sparkling eyes, glowing cheeks, and dimpled smiles.
" It's a bird!I" she exclaiimed,"A live bird; and for me, to be
my pet!"   And you will sing to me, and you will love me, won't
you birdie, dear little birdie?"
Before any one could speak, a sudden change came over the seo-
itive child: stretching out her hand to Mr. Talbot, she said, "I
-ill be so good and patient now, and when you see I do not fret
nv more. vou will know I am thanking you all the time for my
I "d, won't you? " and she looked up beseechingly in his face.
All were touched by her gratitude, and the fine instinct she
showed in choosing that form of thanks which would best please
her friend: and Mr. Talbot felt himself repaid for many a self-eacri-
fice, as he pressed his lips upon Jessie's forehead.
"But you do not know your pet's accomplishments yet." he said,
"Get me a lump of sugar, Minnie." He held the sugar inside of
the cage. and the bird immediately made a perch of his finger and
nibbled it. He then gently drew out his finger with the bird upon
it, who flew to his shoulder and sat there fearlessly. "Now,
Jessie. hold the sugar, and see if he will go to you."
Jessie took the lump. and the trusting little creature nestled on
her arm, and pecked it.
"fHow wonderful," exclaimed Minnie. "I have seen mocking-
~ Ms very tame. but this bird, - you must have bewitched him."
Not I: witchcraft, please remember, is the prerogative of your
set.' Listen!"
He whistled "Home. Sweet Home."    The bird turned his head
from side to side for a few moments. with an attentive air, and then
joined in whistling the tune. Mr. Talbot then tried "Yankee Doodle,"
and the bird bore his part patriotically.
"These are all the tunes I know, but his former mistress said he
would imitate everything, from a band of music to a creaking wheeL
The bird's historvis this. I drove to St. Paul's, determined to find
some pet for Jessie. but not knowing what it would be. At the
Jail. I heard of the death of a stone mason, a worthy man, whom I
knew very well, and I went to see his family. His wife said she
wanted to return with her children to New Hampshire, where her
father had a farm, and would give them all a comfortable home, but
now that she had paid off the debts- occasioned by her husband's
illness, she had not money enough for the journey. I noticed this
mockinc-bird flying about the room, from one child's had to
another's shoulder, and. upon inquiring about it, foseMd that it had
been driven to Mary, the youngest, before it was fully fledged, and
that she had nursedi it in fher bosom, and fed it from her plate, ealy
putting it in a cage for safety at night. I drew the children tome
and told them of a little girl, once playful and active as they, who
was now obliged to lie all day long on'her bed. They asked if sh

66

STANDIsa-

67


STANDS.

had no bird to talk to. I said, no; she passes long hours alone,
when her head aches so that she cannot read or sew, and she feels
very tired, and wants something to amuse her.
"Let's give her our bird," said George, a boy of twelve, "Ma
says we can't take it with us, and its a jolly thing to have a bird like
that to teach tunes to."
-Yes," answered Susan, "if Mary's willing, I am; its more
Mary's than ours."
Mary was appealed to, and answered without hesitation, that if
she could not take her pet to New Hampshire. she wanted the sick
little girl to have it. So it was settled. I gave the widow the
means to return comfortably to her old home, and her children sent
'Bob' to Jessie. And now,~Minnie. if your cousin will trust to Roland's
good behavior and your driving, Ernest and I will walk together."
Mr. Talbot spent the evening at Lakewood. and so well did be
succeed in winning Ella's confidence, that she gratefully accepted
his proposal to change pupils for a part of the morning, he giving
Ernest a lesson in Latin, while she taught Minnie music and French.

CHAPTER XVI.

Ma. TALBOT was in no danger of forgetting his promise, on Satur-
day, to Mr. Upperman, nor did he object, when he could spare the
time. to a tilting-match with Miss Rosalie, who, not trusting to
Cupid's old-fashioned archery. armed herself cap-a-pie with a whole
arsenal of weapons. offensive and defensive.
But, of course, the whole afternoon coul'l not be devoted to thi-a
visit; when his hours f study were over, there were always dutie-
to be performed among his poorer parishioners. Were two families
at variance, they applied to him. aid his practical good sense and
perfect knowledge of the characters with which he dealt, enabled
him to settle many a dispute. Was a son unruly: he was sent t"o
the Rector. - to be talked to."  The yolung man defiant, determined
to resist all authority, was first subdued by Edward's sympathy, to
unbosom all his grievances as to a friend. and gradually was made
to feel that though there was some justice' in his complaints, toendure
was often more manly than tee rebel: while his parents were admon-
ished, that, if they would preserve their son's respect, they must
show less seltishness, and mere consideration for his opinions and
wishes.
Mr. Talbot was returning from on. of these parish visits, which
had taken him about a mile from home, when, cutting across a
meadow, he entered a lane which led to the neatly paved yard at the
back of Mr. Upperman's house. Here he met Mike, the Irish boy,
who had brought Miss Rosalie-"s notte to him.
"Is Miss Rosalie at home, Mike !*"
"Yes, sir -not exactly. yer honor."
"Not exactly at home; where is she, then!"

4 She 's not exactly at home now, yer honor, but she will be
p.-a-sently, an' she intinded to have walked home with yer honor,
I'm thinkin' afther a time, but you got the start on her."
From the kok of utter vacancy that took the place of shrewdness
on Mike's face, Mr. Talbot knew that Miss Rosalie was preparing
her nets, and that he, or some higher game, was to be ensnared in
them.
" Where shall I find Miss Rosalie ?" he asked, unwilling to dia
point the lady, if he were the destined victim.
- She's down by the beech-tree, in the front road, a-waitin' for me
to bring her this basket, and she told me to be spry, so I ax yer
honor's pardon, an' I must be gone. or I '11 get into throuble."
" I am going to her, Mike. and I will carry the basket for you."
Mike scratched his head, and rubbed down his freckled face, until
he had smoothed it into absolute blankness. and then demurely
replied -
- No offince, yer honor, but I was not to give it to her if you was
in sight: and divil a bit will she like the sight of yer givin' it to her."
And Mike. swinging round the basket. so as to display its contents,
two turnlledl napkins, took to his heels. Edward followed a side
path. which led into the front Avenue. below the old Beech. de-
termined t4o make his appearance, in the direction from which he was
expected.
As he apprfoached the-tree. he was rewarded by a very pretty
piture'. Upon the bench beneath its shade. Miss Rosalie had thrown
herself, while our old friend. the basket. stood on the ground by her
side. Her garden hat lay in her lap, and she rested her head against
the-roucgh old trunk, the peach-like bloom of her cheek made more
soft and delicious by the contrast.
With one little foot she was writing mystic letters on the gravel
walk, and so absorbed was she in her occupation. that Mr. Talbot
stood by her side before she appearedi to perceive him. She then
started. dropped her hat, blushed. smiled, and drawing out a very
white hand from its kid gauntlet, Li i it in his. He seated himself
on the girounl at her feet.
May I study out cour hieroglyphics, Miss Ralie ?"
Studv them in welcome: but y u n     sed not hcop to read them.
The kevis wanting."
..I o'ne deciphered the Rosetta stone: will not that help me.
You shake your head: that means that yo. u can be cndder than stone,
and darker than Ezvpt, when you ch'wse. But tell me hew to find
the key :''
4 Y u do not care enough about me to find it. You never come
ti- steo u  nlw : "and Miss Rosalie pouted. and tosSed the gravel
impatiently with her foot.
- I shoul not have come to-day. had I s.uppe ed  u would have
thrown reproaches and pebbles at mle. You will not .ee' me soon
SBut suppose I smile. instead of pout in:. and' cover you with rose
leaves instead of gravAl? "
" In that case I may not stay away so lonz.
" Lo k here !" 11cr pouting fips srnied ce ~enettishly. andl, Qnatching
a rose from her bosom, she showered its petals upoen his dark curhs
and black coat. " Will that do ?"

Iil

68 b

BrANDIH.


MA .

70

Shaking off the rose leaves, -" Yes, that will do: now tell me
what you have been doing since I saw you. Nothing ?"
"Everything."
"What have you been doing to-day ?"
Nursing Uncle, reading, practising, sewing, walking."
"Where have you been walking '"
" Only to take"-
Miss Rosalie blushed, looked down at the basket, and came to a
full Stop.
Well, to take this empty basket where ?"
"To John Fairbanks: but I do not say it was always empty."
"Not always, perhaps, but it has only had these two napkins in it
to-day."
What a strange man you are? What would be the use in my
taking an empty basket to the Fairbanks ''"
6 There would be none, and therefore I do not believe that you
have been there."0
"But, Mr. Talbot, I have, and was resting. half dead with fatigrue
with my long walk, when you came up. How else should I have
been here with the basket ''
"Much more easily." said Mr. Talbot, in a stern tone,-" Your
little French hoots have ntt trod this afternoon the marshy meaiow
between your house and John Fairbanks's, and his hun.rv children
have none the better supper because this empty basket li beside
me here, and you lo to me, there."  Miore gently.  - h.
Rosalie, if you would make half the exertion too li4. good,. that iOu do
to seem so, Vou would succeed much better. and be far happier."
Miss R4salie. in tears. -" You find out everything. I d4oro some-
times too ee the poor pet ople, and I did oat know there was any
ham"-
"Stop: you did know there was harm in falsehoiod. Be true, and
you will be none the less harmingng"
Don't be angrv with me, and I will :' and takin: her hands from
before her face ant strit.-hing tonce towards Mr. Talbot"w.' bloketdi
so lovely, with eyelash - and cheeks moist with tears. hoi1rhtenod
color, and hair slightly i ordered, that he thought it mnort prudent
to rise. remember that the obj4ec't of his visit was to
Upperman, and escort her to the huse.          chr

CHAPTER XVII.

Taz exchange of teacher; was at first as great a trial to Ernest
as to Minnie, and by ioi means borne with the same sweetross.
"It 's real hard to) give up lessons with my pretty mamma an'i
study with that grave gentleman," thought Ernest; and harder stiil
was the Latin Grammar which the grave gentleman gave him to) learn.
But Ernest's nature was a very affectionate one, and Mr. Talbot had

srAmaI&amp;.

71

the power of winning the hearts of all who came in contact with
him. Before many weeks had passed, the recitation hour was ado
to consist of more than sixty minutes, and plans were often formed
between teacher and pupil to pass the afternoon together. The two
were to be seen setting out, hand in hand, to visit some of the neigh-
boring poor, Ernest listening while Mr. Talbot turned over the
pages of that wonderful book, the Book of Creation.
iEdward had studied each science so as to possess himself of its
principles, and stored his memory with facts to guide him in his ob-
servati orns of nature. But it was because this natural world was to
him the living garment of the spiritual, that he loved to watch its
devel parent, and note the laws of its growth. God, a living God,
made known to us in our Blessed Lord. was the central truth about
which all others ranged themselves, in his mind, and gave life to all
Lis descriptions.
AS the child l ened to his account of those far-off. i-44o1
tim44 when the earth toss anol heaved like molten metal. and o all
1- clances w   eh hail sinoe taken place. the families of plants
created ansolwept away to make rotomti ffor now families. the races
,f animals who had lived awhile and then been destroyed, to give
way to new ra'es. in their turn vieldling to higher and higher grades
of ~animal existence. until a titting kingdom was prepare I for Man,
it" sovereilgn. - hi; inanation pictured each scene asm  as if it
were   ine tf hi. dearly Itveil fairy taleis. It was the hist' ry of a
got1 and wi-e King, creating a dwelling-place for hi- future sub-
get . - a loving Father. pro tviling for the wants of his children;
Ilivitng andl desiring itote loved again.
Atd when Mr. Talolot threw himself down under a tree to rest,
each ti wer that Esty brought him was a fresh story. Bo'des the
mlarVe+l" tot Iwfoudil in the structure of this little hb0..som. he would
dhest'ril.' the wholt family to Ernest. - tell him of its numerous
btither, anti isttrs suited to different climates ant soils, and scat-
terel b1 the sant loving Father's hand, -' to minister delight to
mn. t b.autifv the earth."
i " iv they hail walked iether as far as St. Paul's. and. on the way
hon.'. thev turneolf from the direct real aer  the prairie. to look
at 't f those beautiful little lako-a with which Minnesota abound.
Tit'- ,arte o f the lake was many fe'.et below the level of the
prairie. 'o that it remained  n      f    view until they came
within      a a  t tw ro  f it  h tre whei it i urst upn them in all its
l   Nveli,. Almost circular in f orm. its gently sIloping banks were
elsth with flower , while. thrioih its cht-jr water. the p.tbly bttor
c uldi be distinctly seen, with many varieties of ti-h spt rting over
it, the !wr est of thsen. the 1 Ia k htaw, s  tempting  to anglers.
Frighn i~  Iv the apiprtaich 4f the pedstr'in, a cuiplO  f divers
I'ivw  e Gilacialis rose tin thj-Ir whit' wxine. anId tiw  ,vrr the
watir. utt-erin: a 4hrill   in  o like a women's cry, that Ernest,
shudll'rin:. graspetd Mr. Talbiot'" hi c. andi watched the lords until
they wore o ut of sight. half mit  ed~i that they hail been forced
to take their present f orm by 5 s!ome on, ha~nit-r'a po wer.
But the' beauty if the scene .tn ,bt out very feeling but that
of rapturous delight. " Beautiful: beautiful beautiful,' cried

rj


S7AND  0-

73

Ernest, with each exclamation making a higher bound into the air
Are you not glad, Mr. Talbot, I brought you here?"
Yes, Mr. Ernest, I am much obliged to you for bringing me
here," said Edward, with a bow    of acknowledgment.   Ernest
lughed g  turedly.
Now,     . Talbot, it's too bad to take a fellow off so; I did not
mean anything so absurd as that, though I do take very manly airs
sometimes. But you would not have come this way, except to show
me this lovely lake, and so I brought you. and you are so kind to
everybody that I want you to get the good of it sometimes:  and
Esty ended his defence by clasping his arms tightly round his
friend's neck, and, happy at the warm embrace he received. he ran
away to gather flowers, while Edward stretched himself out on the
ground to enjoy the beauty of the scene. Erne-t "ame running
back with an anemone in his hand. -- Ltk. should you not think
it Twuld be lonely ? I found it growing by itself.  its- lrorthers and
sis~ft dead long ago. And it 's so large. too:    , y u ev.r see
one so large before?
It is unusually larze and! cldrless. saii Mr. Talb t. twirling
the dtower between his tint-frs. -- it must have Vrwn in some rich-
shady spot. Take it. child : nothing( out of season ever please's me."
But,   persisted  Esty, "did you ever
large?"*! *d                                      . *W PuUall2
Yes. larger."
Where .not at Lakewood. I am sure.
b o: on the field of Marathon. I have some pro" i. that I
brought home from there, more than twice as lar.r a- thiS.
Oh. tell me about it. --the ti6ht. I mean. Pap i toll me .f it
once: he said4 it was the Greeks who fought '4o b'ravt'lv. but  I
forget - who did they fight azairist   I love to h.ar abo'ut brave
mendbetter than dflowers. IHow I slhotil-l l ve to di .htin'
Edwart ilookel with admiration up ,n the bov's% arinimtt I 1., and
said, ''"'You shall read all about it some day. Th. ,l ntld ol'
Athenians fight to save th'ir cu''ontry from a f r' "I. yk  their
wives and children from slavery : andl a thr"'%pi:-ir urved each
arm, and gave force to *vevy bloW. I tru-t y-'u wil ri t a bravlv,
my by. in dcfino  ' f the weak az.itr 'pr-  'a an'l wro ,
wherever you may meet them. But now the  ur i  ".:ik in: ri lil11
and we must g'o.'
 e lis . hut lae wait a minute. while I pick Mi:nie on' ti .wers.
She lk  asters,  u know. al her' are 'ver - many diri'rent kin.l .
Won't you pleas. make mi a sw'rli out of thi1 pie1.. .f w oIWhile
you ar' w                                         Jitin ' an! Lty l.  I up wi tfuly  a Mr. Ta ot'
, dultfl a to the so*6 eS l  ' his p'titi-
But. whrth.-r it was Mini i's niu". or E'tv'
liness around him. ertainly Edw arli shwel h d,41'1    r"-
than was  ui with him. .Nlddm: a lazy a         r ''h- I out
his han'C b  r th wh ,  an I-II- b n to whitt  w  . s if  ha'!
he   thou  .ht  of  his  "'usin  remind'' I  Esty  ''f his p''k''ts.  which
bhnsr tuil kmness". hadl stuff il for him. Tak', z  ut two large
buns andeyeing them with intense satisfitctioni, he otler.'d ''ne to

I1

his friend, who, not coming under the head of the " young animal,"
(ride Professor of the Breakfast-table,) was obliged to refuse, and the
boy bounded off, holding a bun in each hand, and taking a mouthful
alternately. until he disappeared in the wood that bordered one side
of the lake. Hardly had ten minutes passed, when he returned with
eyes dilated with wonder and fear.
"Oh, Mr. Talbot, there is a wild man living in the woods. He is
so hungry he snatched away both my buns. and eat them down in a
twinkling, and told me to bring him more, or he'd eat me too. But
I ran away. and when I looked back he had hidden in his hut. Do
you think he really eats boys and girls that are lost in the woods ?"
-Come." said *Mr. Talbot, smiting, "We will go and siee what
food he prefers.''
Ernest clung to his friend, and tried to hold him.
Pray d1o n' t - go into - his hut : he may eat us t' 'o."
"You need not go in with me: you can stay outside : and if jou
hear the ocgre craunching my bones, run away. But remember, a
cowardly bov will never make a brave man."
Estv colored, and holding out his hand for the sword Mr. Talbot
offere'l him, said. "I have got over my fears. -they were very
ftAish. -and I will go with you. Its only bad Islanders, Cani-
Cani-something, and shipwrecked sailors, that eat boys. and those
boys have ntb swords."
- ..' said Mr. Talb'ot. laughing. " I never heard of any one with
a swori like yours. except Wamba, the son of Witless. whose
acquaintance v4u will soon make: and. with a stout heart. and ready
wit. to back his sword, he saved his master's and his king's life."
"How 1d love to save your life with my sword," aid Ernest, as
they entered the hut; " but there's no danger here," he added, in a
disappointeil whisper.
There was inIleed no danger to be apprehended from the poor man,
who lay. pah- anl emaciated. on the flor of the hut. He# started up.
gazinz willlv at them. as there came in. but his weak limb's refused to
sup 'rt hin. and! he sank d1fown a'rain with a mutter'd curse. Edlward
t. " k a b'rainly fla.sk from his pocke-t. and. unse'rewing a little leather
gbb-t fr'm its t' p. sent Ernest to the lak" to fill it with water.
Wh.-n Ety returnt-l. he put a littIe branly in the water. and held it
to the psqtr creatures lips.
It this nm mnt. the %ilence of tho woo Iwas broken ly yells,
hurras. n ' ure"-. Mr. T.albot ran too the' do''or of the hut. anoI saw
a In' m   1b -  "11. 1aV boys apprOaching. with ees glaring. an I faces
distorted with. evil passions.
Jim IIWe.'' the'V slhoute'A. ' we've track"d ycou -it last  No
ueed to ,ku1k any mre !Y1u'v # t to cut your stick,. a.d mutight
as4 we I ll l It like ;a man
a 'ls     t kll l  E  r ' t  to  tak''  his  stanoI  at  the  dI  'r.  k.-  ming  it
nearly (+  i. ut hIlding himself in readlin'," to oby any r.-'rs he
mirht gie him. an'! then placed himself 'n a raised st'n" in front
en arr th mob, and. as they drew nearer. their y.'lls became mere
sava-".  But Mr. Talbot stood playin: with his g'ldl watch-key. and
lookir: as c o"lly down upon this angry sea of human faces. as if it
were his usual Sunday congregation. As the ringleader, a great
10

72

STAUt)Uss.


74  ~TLDI~.                       TaN2          7

burly fellow, caught sight of him, he shouted to those behind, "It's
the Parson that used to be at Jail, when I was nailed! Curse him,
what business has he here !"
Dandy Hal, a young man with a well-knit, powerful frame, and a
fae that would have been handsome, had it not been for its reckless,
dare-devil expression, took upon himself to reply.
" Hush, Joe; we bear no grudge ag'in' the Parson, he's allers been
good to us."
" Well," answered Joe. "I aint the man to gainay Jim Howe's
prayers, and all that kinder thing, if 't don't take too long."  To
Mr. Talbot -" Hand Jim Howe over to us, sir, and we wvn't hurt
you, nor meddle with your trade."
"I am sure you would not do me any harm, for you know I am
your friend, but I am not so sur of your intentions towards Jim
Howe."
"We won't hurt. him neither." answered Dandy Hal. with an oath,
"no more than we kin help. We'll be as tender as a mother with a
sucking babe. We want to hang him. that's all."
A horrible laugh at this -troke of wit burst from the crowd.
"Why should you want to hang him ?" asked Mr. Talbut.
"Curse him !" cried Joe. -- Didn't he kill Big Billy'."
Edward now saw what the case was. Big Billy, the leader of the
rowdies in St. Paul's, had been mirtallv w 'uned'1 in a s-kirmish
which took place at an oyster saloon a few nights beNre. by a man
who had made his escape. As sioon as Big Billy died. li. b'riother
Joe put himself at the head 4t' these 1 bl'' dhoeunds. whis. having gut
upon the tracks of thvir victim. had now hunted him down.
Then let him tee punished bv the law," said Mr. Ta.lb t. - I
pledge you mvwor. -how many amo:r ' V.o'u knov whether tuy
word can be trusted or not :''
- I do !"  - I do !" -- He's to be truste,1. that he is !''  Taint
all words and no diinzs with him, as it is.with nieot f te [lack-
coated fry !" came in answer from  the crowd in various v1ieS s
weaker and milder nature#s. whose spirits began to shrink from the
bloody work they hail undertakt'n.
I pled   io y u most sol-rnaly my w-4rd, that he shall be.1 I ivereI
into the hands i4f the auth, riti s to stand his trial for the murder
you accuse him of. if yu will quietly disperse, and return tto your
homes."
Voices from the mob.  -Come. let's do it! The Parson's a kind
friend 4ef eun: let's do as he savs '"
But Jo-v. in whose heart revemnie had swallowed up all softer feel-
ings, again made himself spokesman : he had had many desperate
quarrels with his brother whil- livin'Z. but this did not make him
desire the less to revenge him when dead.
Your law 's tjo slow for us hard-working men : we 're for re-
venge without loss o' tim.': them 's our natural rights. and we don't
want no law that takes 'em away. Jim IIT'we 's a gone coon.''
"Yoeu or I, any one am 'nc us. is liable to be accused of crime :
evidence may be strong against us. but is it not a comfort to think
that we shall be justly tried by a jury of impartial men, and punished
only when our guilt is proved f:"
Voices from the crowd.  -Yes!'' " Yes!I" " Them's our rights."'

I

"We 'a a free people, and we 's al innocent, until we we proved
guilty !"  "Trial by jury, - that 's our constitution ; the parson
says right!"   " A  n  can't gainsay that," cried Dady Hal;
"law and justice is something in Amerikay, and by Jimny I we
had n't oughter turn agin' our constitution!"
Joe felt this patriotism was dangerous ground. Dandy Hal, one
of his chief supporters, was about to desert to the side of law and
order: matters must be brought to a prompt conclusion.
o Very fine, parson; butdamnit, you can't quite cumit overuse
You can't argufy us out of our afternoon's sport. Jim Howe kiled
my brother Billy, and I'll tighten the rope round his cursed neck
before I sleep to night. So stand out of the way, and let 's to our
business."
"I will not move. I shall defend this helpless man, as I should
any one of you who was in his place, with my life."
Edward's tone was sad, rather than defiant, but there was such
fearlessness in his bearing, that it was evident to the mob, that in his
desire to save them from a crime, and to rescue a fellow-creature
from a cruel death, his owu safety was disregarded. and that admi-
ration which courage always extorts even from the lowest, broke
forth in loud cheers. Joe, who now felt he had "a foeman worthy
of his steel," shouted -
' The Parson 's a regular brick: we 'It have tcr tighten his cravat
first : it '1 be two jobs instead of one. but we are up to it!"
Loud murmurs of "shame! shame! " arose at these brutal words.
Voices from the mob. "6Never hurt the Parson: he cum to see
my old woman when she had like to die!"  "He give my little 'uns
food and clothes when I was last nailed."
a- ee. my friends." said Mr. Talbot, "what an advantage it is to do
even trifling acts of kindness to your fellow-men. See how I am re-
warded by a gratitude far greater than the services I have rendered
you. Then why will you not give to this poor wretch his life ?
Think you this will not bring to you a return in proportion to the
greatness of the gift! Children of one Father, linked together in a
bond of brotherhood, depe'nling upon the same love for your health,
strength. and every blessing of your daily life, have you no return to
make tor that love which has endured all things, even to a cruel death
upon th cross for your sakes, but hatred and revenge ! Forgive, my
brothers, I entreat vou. for your blessed Lord's sake, who is even
now long'ine' to draw you repentant to his arms, and to press upon your
brows the seal of his forgiveness; forgive, that you may be forgiven."
Deep silence followed these words. Among that crowd there were
boys, who had joined it from curiosity and idleness: youths, who were
more mischievous than cruel : and bad men, who loved tumult and ex-
citement. and vet were wanting in the diabolical passions that rejoice
in human suffering.  All these could not but be moved, by this
appeal, coming in tones of tenderness from the lips of a man whose
truth and earnestness they had tested, andi never found wanting, in
their hour of need. Poor, misguided creatures, they still had human
hearts. Joe. and a knot of kindred spirits, the most devilish of the
mob, now held a consultation together, the result of which was soon
seen. Placing themselves in front of the others, they shouted to-
gether -
" Down with the Parson ; we 'vs had preaching enough for on.

74

73

SrAsNDsa.


SnAN DL.

- - w

76

day I Come on, we '1l let no man gam'on us, by the dickens !"and
Joe, seizing a stone, aimed it at Mr. Talbot's head, but meeting his
eye, the ringleader's arm fell powerless by his side.
Backward and forward swayed the crowd, those behind pressing
on those before, and those before recoiling before the dauntless glance
that was fixed upon them.
Mr. Talbot felt the crisis had come, and turning his head. he said
to Ernest in French. "Give the poor man more brandy. and get
him quietly out of that hole in the back of the hut: he may be
able to conceal himself in the woods while the mob surround and
seize me.'"
The ruffian, released from the spell which Edward's eve had held
over him, caught up another stone, and hurled it at his chest.
Ernest had seen the motion. and quick as lightning he darted forward,
and placed his wooden sword so as to shield his friend. The toy weapon
split into fragments. but it broke in some degree the force of' the mis-
S    sile, and slightly changed its direction. The boy received the blow
upon his own head. and Mr. Talbot turning quickly. was just in time
to catch him, as he stag'zered backward. 1Holding Errist"t with one
arm, he stretched the other out towards the mob. and exclaimed-
"Look here, - see what you have doneO! ne of you threw a
stone at rme. an unarmed man. a priest of God, bound by his holv
office to do no one an injury. even in self-dqfence.  You all saw the
cowardly act, but not one voice was raised to warn, not on. arm was
lifted to shield me. when this boy. a more child. who has known me
but a few weeks, for whom -I have neither worked nor suffered, as I
have for many among you. sprang forward. and with hi,. mimic sword
turned on himself the blow with which you would have felled me to
the ground. Have you no little sons or brothers to run to meet you
on your return home. and must the hands that caress th'e innocent
children be thrice dyed in blood. the blood of a noble bo. of a ser-
vant of God. and a famine-stricken wretch, too weak to eep0 from
your fury "
Soices from the crowd -" Dimn it. we are served out nrw!"
e are tough customer-. but we nv r meant to settb: a child .
uch a pretty chap. too .'
Savage Joe. Dinlv Hal. en.1 a few mre of the o-vlin  Tirits of
the mob now 4ante-forward. so Is tI have a more distint view of
Ernest. who, f int front the effects of the blow, lay with his head on
Mr. Talbot's shoulder.
It', the new widow's son," saidl Hal. "I've seed him with Miss
Campbell.
4.' 'i~l Mr. Talbt. -- Thi, is Mi's Campbell's cousin, and I
am surt- there is not on-' araniv vyu who wo  uld wih t d. Miss
(untmpbll. or any one bellnzin: to her. an injury."
Voices from the or w I   That we wojull n't. sir '' - Yi are
right.  th,'re.  by  th-  i- k'n   Shss  jPt  li:  a  little'  anel.
a-g1omn about from door to I r i-loin: :oed1
""va .ltW had remaiined Iil'rnt. gazingr upon Ernest. Great was
Mr. Talbot's astonishment t'o su him now brush a tear from his eve
with hie r uzh coat-sleyve. while he said in a broken voiceC-
hHe's fir all t he world like my own son, my little Joe. When
hb sickene-d. Miss Campb.'ll cum to see him, and brioug~ht him nice
1t~s to eat,-and toys, and pleter-books. and such like. And he'd

77

STANDISH.

lie a-listening like anything, until she cum, and when he heard h,
he would- clap his little thin hands. You see I worked for Mr.
Campbell then, and he took sick of a fever, and the old woman she
died afore, so there was only him and me. And Miss Campbell she
took my hand and spoke so sweet after Joe died - I never thought
I'd pay her this - a-way."
"Nor shall you," said Mr. Talbot, laying his hand on Joe's
shoulder: "with God's blessing you shall reward Miss Campbell for
her goodness. But let us first kneel down and ask our heavenly
Father's forgiveness for the past, his guidance for the future."
He knelt. still supporting Ernest with one arm, and, as if swayed
by one will. that subdued and repentant crowd knelt around him.
For that one moment, all past fears, all present anxieties, were lost
to Edward in the flood of love and gratitude that swept over his
soul, - love for these reckless, misguided children, whom he longed
to gather into Christ's fold, and gratitude towards Him who had held
back th' murderer's arm, and given the boy strength for his self-
sacrine.
Forth from his soul this love and gratitude were poured in words
of fire: like fire they melted those awestruck and humbled hearts.
The words f that prayer - no mortal ips will ever repeat, no
mortal pen will ever trace them. but, inscribed by the Recording
Angel, they will eternally mark a day of joy in heaven.

CHAPTER XVIII.

His prayer finished, the time for action had come, and Mr. Talbot
showed the promptness and decision of his character. One mes-
senger he dispatchel with a line to the magistrate. desiring him to
send a constable with £ warrant to take Jim Howe into custody.
He wrote bv another to Dr. Stewart. the best surgeon in t. Paul's,
asking him to meet him at Lakewood. To Joe, he gave a note for
Miss Campbell. In this note. he did not conceal from her that he
felt very anxious about Ernest, though he hoped his fears were
groundless, lie begged her to send the carryall to them at once;
Joe would show where they were. and he gave poor Minnie the task
of preparing her cousin for'Ernest's condition. The rest of the mob,
now a quiet 4roup of repentant men. he sent to their homes, by twos
and three. with the assurance that he would prevent Jun s escape,
while all that had occurred that afternoon should be remembered by
him only as establishing a stronger bond of confidence between them.
The hour that then passed seemed like a week to Mr. Talbot, as,
seated in the hut by Jim Howe's side, holding Ernest in hisL arms,
he   mised to the one a fair trial and good counsel, and to the other
that he should soon see his mother. The distance to St.,Paul's and
Lakewood was about the same: both messengers exerted themselves
to the utmost, and nearly a; the same time, the constable in a wagon
and the Lakewood carryall arrived.


76

qAnI.

The family stood upon the porch with anxious faces, waiting for
their return. Edward took Ernest up stairs and laid him upon his
own little bed. Dr. Stewart put a cordial to his lips; he swallowed
it, opened his eyes, and stretching out his arms towards his mother,
drew her head down upon his pillow, and held it there with all his
childish strength.
"Mamma, my head swims so, and .it 's all growing dark. I don't
like to look at you, you dance so strangely up and down, but it 's
nice to feei your cheek against mine. I 've felt dreadfully ever since
that blow on my head: I do n't believe I shall ever be well again.
I want to see papa. Why didn't we bring papa with us? Ie
would have liked to hear about it. Mr. Talbot stood so bravely
against them all, and. mamma, I defended him with ny wooden
sword: didn't I, Mr. Talbot !'"'
"Indeed you did, my boy: this little hand." and Mr. Talbot kissed
it reverentially, " has just performed a hero's act. You have saved
my life: God grant that it may not have been at too great a sacrifice."
For a moment, Estv's pale cheek flushed with pleasure at this
praise : the flush faded away, and with it his last thought of earth.
An angelic smile spread over his face as he said, faintly, "I can't
stay any longer now. It 's warm and bright, and beautiful children
are beckoning to me to come and play with them. Bid papa good-
by for me. Don 't cry so, Debby dear. You need not mind my
going, mamma: I won't stay long."
And he was gone. The pale cheek, which still rested atrainst
Ella's. had become cold; the little arms that had pressed her neck
convulsively dropped their hold. stiff and powerless. Ile was gone.
"You need not mind my going, mamma, I won't stay long." How
often would that childless mother think of these words. 'luring the~
weary days that must pass. before Ohe could again press' her darling
to her heart. She might indeed go to him, but he could never return
to her.

CHAPTER XIX.

ALTHOETGH Mr. Talbot had feared Ernest was seriously injured he
was not in the least prepared for his sudden death, and the shock
overwhelmed him. A feeling of self-reproach too, mingled with his
grief: it seemed to him that he had murdered the boy. lie strove to
pray, but his colorless lips could utter no sound: a heavy weight
pressed him down to the earth, and prevented his thoughts from
rising alm-ve it. He was leaving the house, in utter misery, without
speaking to any one, when he felt a little hand slipped into )his, and
Minnie gently drew him into the parlor  lie threw himstlIf down
upon the sofa, and burying his face in the cushions, groaned aloud.
Minnie. whose tact, springing as it did from a combination if sensi-
bility and sympathy, never deserted her, left him alone for a few
moments, but soon returned, bringing a glass of wine. She bent
over him, and said, "Lift up your head. and drink this."  Mechan.
icaly he obeyed.

79

s

In that helplessness which        ms,at times the strongst,
there is comfort in being directed and taken care of: and so Mr. Talbot
found it. When be handed Minnie back the glass, he looked up
imploringly into her soft brown eyes, and said, -
" I feel like a murderer. How can your cousin forgive me: how
can I forgive myself ?  Noble little fellow ! A fresh, innocent life,
full of rich promise, sacrificed to save a miserable, sinful, lonely
man. It is all dark to me - I cannot understand it:" and again
Edward buried his face in the sofa cushion, as if he could not bear
the light of day.
Minnie remained very still for a moment, and a great tear. rolling
down her chetk, fell upon his hand, which she held tightly clasped
in hers. Then she said, quietly -
-ir. Tilbot. if one of your parishioners had actel as you have
done. and were ntw suffering from the result, what would vu say to
him  ""
Ile raised his head.  "I don't know : what should I .  And as
he spoke. his lips half quivered with a smile : there was something
piquant in this change of position. Minnie the shepherd. and he the
wandering sheep: but the thought quickly passed away, and his
burden of grief seemed all the heavier for it.
" You would tell him." continued Minnie, "of God's love, in
words such as no one else knows how to use. -fervent, tender
words, that melt into the heart, and take all* hardness and bitter-
ness away. You would show him that this love is always planning,
arranging. disposing all the external events of our life, so as to
wear and disappoint us with earthly things, and lead us to
bosom. We may not always understand this: we are apt to feel
that we could have arranged things better for ourselves : but
0. Mr. Talbot. why should I say such things to you: you feel it
as I do now. something warm. and comforting. shining down upon
us and enveloping us in its s-ft folds. It says to my heart,'Peae,
be still.' and it takes the sting from my grief.  Do you not feel
it t04  '
it tos' my child. I had banished pvself from God's presence;
von have brought me back to him. I feel his love and goodness,
and can say, 'His will bddone.' Go and minister to others. Minnie;
God blesses your effot;" and with a sad, but serene face, Mr.
Talbot left the house.

CHAPTER XX.
Axo"r the group of mourners that surronndedl Ernest's deathbed,
no one was sO caIm as the heart-stricken mother. Noiselessly she
moved about. performing all the last offices for her darling. arrang-
ing with her own hand his cnrlk, and dressing his corpse with
flowers.
We have all stood by the deathb. I of some friend, and gazed


0  tAIDISH.

with awe and wo0'der upon the strange beauty we saw there :fee.
ing, as we gaze(that the inanimate body before us could no longer
be the abode of one subject to the weaknesses of humanity: every
line of age, every mark of care and sin, had disappeared, while
the whole form shone with the light of a redeemed spirit, from whom
the bonds of earth bad fallen, and whom angels were now preparing
for a heavenward flight.
We cannot, therefore, wonder that those who bent over little EstT.
whose form no trace of time, disease, or sin had sullied. should have
found it hard to believe that this was not in truth some little cherub
who had ventured far from his heavenly home, and, wear with his
journey, had been caught napping hete below. ~i
A  beautiful spot in the churchyard was selected fir Ernest's
burial-place. The peculiar circumstances attending the b*v's death
brought all of Mr. Talbot's parish, and iany pevpie 'of al classes
from St. Paul's, to the funeral. Joe. sure of t  result of the ctsr-
oners s.inuest, and fearing that he should be arrested and tried for
Ernest's death, hal tied, but many of the mob were there. Mr.
Talbot's voice trembled with emotion. as he read the service for the
dead. Tears rolled down the cheeks of old and young, -nhot f'
women and children o~nly. but of hardy and stalwart men. Thank-
fness that their rector's life had .been saved, admiration for the
boy's heroism. pity and sympathy for his bereaved mother. his faith-
ful nurse, and sweet Miss Minnie, whom  all loved, -here were
chords to touch every heart.
.Still Ella had shed no tear. She stood as calm and unmoved as
if she were indeed the beautiful marble statue she appeared. But
when the first shovelful of earth fell with dull, smothering' sound
upon the little coffin, a cry rent the air, -- a shriek so will, that it
seemed the death-pang of a heart breaking with anguish. It made
the nerves of all who heard it thrill with terror: they felt it would
lie in their memory until their dying day. There was a slight
movement among the group of nearest relatives, and Mr. Campbell
bre his rniece's senseless form from the churchyard. Ella's swoon
continued so long that the family thought life "must be extinct, all
save poor Debora1. who would inot believe this last objet of hero...
deotion could by taken from her, For hours she chafed the cold
hds and feet, trying every means of restoration which was
suggested. with unwearied activity, until circulation was at last
restored, and the sufferer brought l'ack to life, though hardly to
CHAPT  ER XXI.-
Tax seven months which followed the events related in our last
chapter, were months of anxiety and depression to the whole coun-
try. After the excitement of the autumnal elections, there followed
a period of doubt and uncertainty, in which the energies of the North

L

STADi3Hs.

81

seemed paralyzed.   The Southern States, after the election of
Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States, had assumed the
position of outraged nationalities, and secession became the cry.
Still the North looked quietly on, supposing all this was a plan to
obtain farther privileges, and concessions. Even when -little South
Carolina went out in the cold," she produced only a momentary sen-
sation. But several of the Gulf States followed her example. and, on
the tw'ntv-tirst of January. their Senators withdrew from the United
States , iate. Arsenals. Navy Yards, public property of all kinds,
were %eized 1y the Rebels. The gallant Lieutenant Slemmer threw
himself into Vort Pickens, and, with a few brave troops, protected it
from 4Gtnral Bragg and his Rebel force. Many patriotic men strove
to effect a compromise with the southern Leaders. but it soon became
eviqlenlt that thov would be satisfied with nothing that the North
could in honor vield.
The inauizirati.n of Lincoln to)k plae-e )n the fourth of March,
under the prt#-tion 4of a guard of s.ldiers.-a new sight to every
American. Still. war, civil war. fathers red with the blood of their
sons. and br other in deadly strife with br ther, seemed impossible to
the casel. industriou'i. peaceable inhabitants of the North, whose
hearts were still full of forbearing love for their fiery countrymen, and
a hearty desire that they would cease their secession folly and return
to all t, ir rights and privileges. This magnanimity, this genero-
itv. this -lswiness to anger, were misunderstood by the Southern
people :to them it seemed inertness, cowardice, or an absorbing de-
votion tto material interests.
-uch was the state of things on both sides. when, on the twelfth
of A pril. the batteries of Charleston opened upon Fort Sumter, and,
after a ra.v' resistance. our noble Anderson and his hernic hand
were forced t' surrender. The reverberations of those guns echoed
through the wide land: The shot that hit our flagstaff. and lowered
a flag which had never yielded to a foreign f'e, could iot die away
in silence betfre the walls of Sumter !An outraged people heard
it, and with on' consent they sprang tW arms. It reached the wood-
man in his di-tant forest. and he threw down his axv': the farmer
started at th.' so'unl. and left his furrow unturned : from workshop,
from college. from countin-house. from office. they poured out, with
beating hearts andl tashing' eves, to offer their strong arms, their en-
erzetic will-S. their thinking brains. their well-tilled purses. their lives,
and. more periu s till. their children's lives, to their country, in
her hour of need. Should their glorious Republie be rent in frag-
ments ?  ShloutYI'Iir Constitution be trodelden untder foot ?  Should
their laws h disregarled ? No  the world should uee a Gvernment
guarded by a despot's armies had not the strength of this. which,
rooted in the hearts of a great p oplo. could use t heir arn, their
strength. their wealth as its own. Companies were formed in every
village. regiments in every city. Side by side. the scholar and the
laborer marched, with musket in hand, to the def"nce of the National
Capital.
No oine felt the shock of Sumter's fall. more than William Camp-
bell. To use his own words, "~ It set him right again; now he saw
the enemy, and could raise his rifle ahid take aim."
A Union meeting was called at St. Paul's, to which Campbell went,

11

I

$/

I

ain

I


STANISH.

and took Mr. Talbot, " to do the eloquetice for him," as he ex-
pres-esi it.
Edward felt that this was no common political meeting. but an
occasion when, clergyman as he was, it would nut be unbecoming
his sacred office to use the influence he possessed over the croummon
people around him, to nerve them ta the struggle for national exist-
ence.   lie was a native of Virginia.  His totyhlod had passed
among all those varied intfluences that surrouril the oldest Seu of a
wealthy planter. -the absolute sulisksioan of the little a.rkias, that
attend his. footsteps. ready to obey a w ril. sr look. of their youn..
master : the .affectioate lfe.rence taf the imiddlle age1 andl the tv-
rannical devatian of the old. Th" raninyV who has nure.d v-younz
aster    mvtiher, and the Ald unI' whl was th 1bdy servant of hi
grandfath-'r, whose lives have I                 tn4 ng sacr ile ta the inter.' t
and welfare of the family, have a cLaira up athe respect and a t;.*#.tio l
of the vyoung~ master anal miss. whieb h n generous little h-,Art can
resist. and which marniv and unih oaftan use to) s'ha1 the V utL.
generation in the fa tsteps of their fathers.
At twelve cars of age'. Mr. Talbt went t~o a northern botiariing-
schoo aL. where he remain.'d!, passing anly' his vacti, I1S at ham.' unt1:1
he wasl prepaar#A for college. ]I#, graduatel at Ilarvarl. sm ni in
his class'. studliedl his profession. and his first parih was in aauth
Carolina. amwon  his mother's relatia'n:s :so that. while no)ma iculd
understand batter the prejudit'ces if the different  ectiOns a4f the
country. or be more willing to make allowance for them in .othrs. he
was singularly free from them himself.
Edward was first called upon the atelr by the Chairman 4f the
meeting. The cheers long and luid.! which greeted him. shawel that
he had not over-estimated his influence in a community where. for
seven years. his name had been constantly associated with every
effort for the relief. improvement. and education  f those ariunrid im.
He began hiS iadress4 bys showing that. while wise andl taod men
would differ widely a to the causes of this Rehelliin. there ~ui be
but one opinion am ng them as to its treatment. Paty p lities,
local prejuadices. private interests. ruu:-t now all be sacriticel to true
patriao tiz- m.
" ov of elf." he contftinuledl  has no I ra'adth aof faounalatiaon upo a
the earth., n power if ascending ta haven. The life of the seltih man
is a living hZ;th. Iflove flows forth into the family circle, it 1,ec1omes
the sau! a ,t alth( SWeet relations o4f husband. wife, an i child. and
minds its Iiapins in giving. asking fair no return. Spreading still
further. th  am4. lave gives life tao our social relations: it makes
the true fri.n 1. kinal neighbor, and haspitable host. Anal now. rising
above t,   personal ftelings, it ditIuses itself on every siale. and
becomes th# ,trongest. the dfeepest. the purest. the h   fliest of all
natural affati niis. I.ve  f country ! Fr an the n' auntai-top we
survey (cities an ral villages stretched at our feet, andl our hearts swell
with tendl-rness faar -aur race :though personally unknown ta us. the
peace anl ja arsperity that surrounds them, gives us the keenest
enjoymn t . A nd nor- that peace is broken, that prosperity is dashed
to the ground. we learn, in the mighty tempest that stirs our souls,
how dear our country is to us."
A fter some further remarks, Mr. Taibot closed with these words :-

:I

41

,-       "I entreat you. then. my countrymen. to nerve yourselves for the
conflict. You will meet no mean enemy. but a brave and misguided
people. led on lay unscrupulous politicians and skilful generals.
*      Every material advantage will be on our side. All that a generous
anal wealthy nation can do will be done to pay and provide for our
armies: but all will tat' unavailing unless we show a zeal and self-
Sa(crliie  qaiilal to the greatness o.f the struggle. and submit willingly
tt that through discipline ' which is necessary to make us soldiers.
Private duties now call me t Xin.rinia. I must place myself by
the si [1 'at' my t father, who has alir, oly psarilled his life and fortune,
y hii' davatian ta the llnia'. My larrther. whom I love more than
my lit -.vil. I f'ar. iaainn the R-hbl rinks: but, painful as this conflict
will bw. I fel that my duty is 'an the' tattle-field. You have chosen
n' a, t' o'hp.tilain of your Ireint :1I shall be ready to share your
fatizl.u#- yir hariships. andt your dan2'ers: to cheer your drooping
Sr; i  in th.it" rn1.-nt oaft de ta.44   - far iI all war there must come
d    ter anI rrvrse : t. rotr:'i Vu in thi ha u1r f victory, to take
cart at' vaI wha1 ill ar wu, a-1. anl ta )prayto for you when vou have
won ytir country thanks anl a mnirtyr  crawn.
Mr T ilaa tafitt dw1an in th oiiT r  h. rs and cries tof. " We'll
W : a  'wt'll fol w   vijl
A  h# taak h  e ' Willh.cn Cinbapll whisperedi. 'I want you to
tell .tl  1Ito, -k to oth'ir familia- when they are gone.
Tell a   -    .     dear friend - the effect will be far greater
ainir- fram rvu. whose simple -rd weighs more with them, than
another ran's oath.'
.Bit I can't tell them  I never made a noech in my life; I
shou! I n 't know haw to put head tar tail to it."
Never min0-ih h 1 ! aar tail  rL:  them ' the body. .- omething
stro-  anal harty.
- FaIUN: i 'm a pla miJan. as yii know. ard never
mal - a sp.-h in my li;t. a1 I I in't know whit ot sav  and if I
(Iid. I shai   't be aaale tsay it ttr mny frieanal Talbot. though he has
th      O in a f th tal hiet*lf. cOlkes his audience. I aint ashamed
to? say I've wipl   a good maniy tears toff m  cheeks since he
b.'ir. anld my haIrt is way up in my throat still. But the time for
sp~'a 's. in my;' foairni'vn. is pritv Tynidh pa .'1: there  a heap of
wa rk niw. tot ie don'. The hatt ther tired in Sauth Grolind at
*aur the' stritk me somewheres : I feit a stran:', kinad'r pain, and
seiza'i my rdo'. determined Il'd b' raavaned *an somebody : and I
arn nigh making tracks fr the Stih in a sanewh  ridi'erlUs style,
whi'b welad'er done more credit to mv heart than   v head. But
sec'n !aJ thoughts are best - arvyways mine were :or  thought. I'm
caa l far a private. to ignorant ftr an officer taut God has given
hma' m" mi mrle than enough for mV own kin, and a word that men
*can true '  a Cries from all parts of the hill -" That we cant"
That we can "   - Honest Willw's the man for u !"  "Who sent a
thotusaaeldllars to Company ID "  - Will Campbell! Will Camp-
bell! ho 's the man for is "ao
Falloaw-citizens. let by-gones be by-gones. and let me come to
the wheat, if there is any among all this chaff. Well, then, the long
and short of it is this. -every man that shoulders his musket I

STANDISH.

a*


ISH.

84

s-MTDIS.

shall hold my friend : he '11 e working for me, and I 'll be working
for him. His fields shan't remain unsowed, 'aCauSe he 's nost here to
sow 'em, and his crops shan't riot in the ground, and his wife and
children shan't see want while I live and my name 's William Camp-
bell."  Great applause.
There was much more speechifying, much lasting, sone bully-
ing, but honest patriotism at the 1b4.ottosm of all. Well-known phrases
about the Stars andl the Strips-, the i Goddess Liberty. the Co)nstitu-
tion. the bulwark of our rights. &amp;c. &amp;c.. which hal seemed to our
generation the proper t powers t.,embellish Fieurth of July Orations.
but too hackneyed to awakean any rseal feelit.". nOw broi;rt tears
to the eyes of strong men, an1d se-nt a thrill to) their heart. Some
very good resolutions were ad'ptel, tO the -fft that 31innesota,
young as she was, wisuld show that her attachmrnat to the Union
was as strong as that of any of her older sisters.

CHAPTER XXIT

AND how
deqat

. A .-  a Aay pass. d without one of
...oons in which it seemed as if every spark ,f life were
..b, and, even when by great efforts circulation returned, eon-
sciousness was only partially restopred. She knew those around her,
tried to thank Minnie and Deborahs. and .urge them to take some
rest, by signs, although her pale lips coull utter no audible words.
But a veil had fallen ups n her bleeding heart : Heaven mercifully
shrouded the suffering sho- had not strength to bear. No mother
ever tetidede an infant with more devotion, than Deborah now showed
towards her helpless mistress. She prepared her foo0d and medi-
cine with her own hands. folhswed out every suggestion of the
physician with the utmost fidelty. ani the re-gularity of clock-work.
Nor was she less careful of her darling's beauty. Ella's luxuriant
hair was daily combed and plaited. that not a golden thread should
be tangled or broken. During the first few hours after her bereave-
ment, when Ella seemed to have supernatural strength for working
and enduring, she had written both to Horace and to Anna. telling
them of Ernest's death. One dav, early in January, Minnie was
seated by Ella's bedside, while Deborah was preparing her some*
beef tea. The invalid had been lying verve quietly for several hour
in apparent slumber : suddenly she roused herself. Minnie stooped
over her and asked if she wanted anything. As their eves met,
Minnie saw at a glance that full consciousness had returned to her
cousin, and with it all her suffering.
" Has Horace? " - she whispered.
Minnie answered by going to a drawer, taking out a letter and

putting~ it into her hand.      ke the seal harriedly, but seeing
e-i'. three well-tilled :hie     na's regular copyplate writing.
-is a serawl or bloot frm the lianId she lolvet so dearly, she gave
th.o letter lack for Minnie too rel to her. with a sigh.
Mi   stan-is1h wrott. as 4he did everything else, well. She ex-
.1p 1 a gr.at deal of sincvr :riof at her nephew's death. and
s-nivthyt or hi bereaved i mther, but I douulbt whether Ella could
h i\#t-l I a w rI sf the c  tent . untid Minui- reached the sec snd
-T th 'Ia  iht flush ti:: I !.-r h. k. and she fixed her eves
uI M\innis face with the mint 4  -r at tsi n.
h~ IWe firwartlh yur 1oter t. :ir brther's barik'r in Italy : *
-   i .weVer le 1   15-f .rs it r.w- him. When h#. recovered
-b  rain .vr. io,1r phyt i  r l r d chanziz of air aid scne.
S -e I' I a litr. i rn..y  !c hi~n.  II- was to g  out t , Ireliand
I      .' 'ie the priT n "v~t-' . '2  . whiib hia's prsved I  ucsces-
- 1j  rmin- sriminai~l'. Thi ,ytn i. h1.ln i when~ jsr .1er in-
'i.1  11            .  ir authhrii. ,.  O roee )infod c d it
lIIIh :,-  .   'r m   i.  I pr  cured  the  lu-t  Ittert
I  a f r Il rut- : h- trip w ll have cmbirneAl I1b-asure
u.  ~      a: j i ;: :  I , mr!i.t fr. n  hisown  ain trtuneS
bY; 1  r i iuhi my  ! . ili hs  i I ha i of the  11  adage,
-t  th f  t -III      :   I  ' th    - : e criminal   dWul. lb- s'et
t ref rs oth, w a, an -#: al da with m           4. and  ne which he
r ey ut .    wh hi,. usinil jrver-Itv. he went to
t     ::  v.a w-      :t sinsn :thie le-aantrv. wastinig tiime
a   ry :a'i' i:a trying I a - eint : r the d..;ep~ti.,n whichi hkas cased42
t wat t I ra si the nsw p tlpers ntiesU est qariba:ldi'ise-
1 it   i   n hart    ieav  me. knwin    as I did my
-~   r          r~ n  nur--. I t,-r f re wro ste to y a young
ft ik. in. iriet absut him. The answer
- '~r  i a 1~e~l. n1  p s L  arrtival in 'July the 1ast
'U  i ' V  ~  s ~'~w  :  havy sh es~ for that a hmate. he
0 MK                V, k      1 :a in  is . W   .- ips ,.It
- *'                   Lrtak-. v          it   and
ir                        and dit he : the
ICArti                         t y .u ha.  ln in
'Pt        I xIB +' t  '     rts'# 1   Bw  y  a  hxfflwt  i
Sr1       wr here
,WTI-t                                        r,  whoI-
I k               .is ntevor un-
dr                               IZv#,! a           lt. thle  less
s I ~   K a:~rw  I-.     -      I!  *yion. Os  ut my
's   - '' .at  fr  *_   I  1    "  :c  a. y  nieh
'.1,,'' I         "           ...xb'U    h  ts-t  if the
*   l-.~'  s  tl~  *  *r  -  P  '  I  ''dIr  cover sof
p~s. 1,   V   -'s, 't  ', .2    -haII10   1 1, . 0,4s1
T                   -Irf udr this hidden
1 r        .         Ia'   r.~    n~i i     u-U a1 w e~ :a tlhe
h-a     h y r        b ti h ~ s:n- I :1.    t~ sh. and his walkin:-
hk he hant         ! vI            1st '-ksed batte'ry up.'n
the/n  After a ~s  '~i                VW' taken by the Gari-

I

86


86

STANDWSli.

badas. and they wvre in the act of druigginge off the guns. whf:%
the Neapolitans sprtea&amp;  their 11116.1114.nd made rioom fi-r their cuixalrv
tocharge and retake the.--i
"Dividing themselves oni either -._idt' the rivad, the Garihblkians
placed their backs again..t a prickly 1ear h'g.and ooeil fire, or,
the cavalry. Afraid to adlvxtict'timo far, for f*Var torf ftin,,r :iirr.'undei.It
the Nearpvlitan Cotuamand*r h~tel-4. andl endfeavortwd to rt irn,
Garibaldi. f"tatelfaa d n jV lorr Vliarre-d tOeway.A hmtiilk 1'A'14
confict ensued, whieh zzwvw i t he metrv Ilik 4.thet, xiliffit- III th.*
'Niebelur u U Ledl. than a Pwz i rbh ~o ntet  t th it- -~ttl ehtr
but I ,tive it, in tite  .'ordl '  i~v rit 1
The NeApbhVlita  &amp;ft-cr cB'I t) Galriali itituren     NO,-w
replied  bN :-printinug  t4011;,%  K  ri-lh..  nd uttiiiz t - i  n  t',,.riI. r.
Seveirul 4 thle CiaI1r\ i alwet- -1 d#I r   .'~4~          h
4ar [aIbjI'i " iili. %Stan,,i kU i 1tw\v,  t h-r- .. a,,,4 t,  fh r
r Vlvcr -At tio; ht                 4: 4 .  ~.~r- I    -
pr.&amp;%c  ii  l~si~ I  E  1  :I  I 3 iX  1 I '  tit'. Ills t  2  a - r'  :
ptti ,,  it   *rt                                       %~m  n  ~ . iI:u  i.tn   'L
t  t letr .n11 1     rL~ie   .   ~r w--      ihtA'
inquire aP'#*r her. a% I a - hi'or# 11 tL t Tei..aa It,  ijp 1 Y
orders ti-s, t:  ory .~  ALL  L-
.%,,Ap  1, r - ilrz This  l.tT  I'- :    '-V
fit lrv she -, f "r--v 1V     7i. ~  Ii. --          r-ifh  -
tP e  nit "   -- v :  v      vI             I7 IV    LI-n    y -  r
r               i -i  i  w -  i vi  I  . -  -vfr.      t*r'
ael-  -t''i  in  tf.  ..      - ~      r, *it ii r-
ey*.,  ou w-cii1 'up10  141 -.          v      I~-At n r  '.  .hti

87

STANDISM .

see the larT - P tears that gathered bene-ath the lid*,- and rolled silently
down hor cheeks. Teairs so large that. as yoU Watched ther.m,
Woud -shuddt.r to think iof the depths of that fountain of bitter watas
frum which these drops bad come.

CHAPTER XXIII.

0

TI     .4 ftrtePiii'iIi,;  teW.ikvB-~wa. held at
A  I L -iAI i  ov.. Up-
iii, I    . r-'e. vsI.-I             -x K  -aei
TF .                    h t-er:.
I  -  ea-1- -.2t'r'l A  flt -  i t  l t 1an1!1  ir -'.-ni te-o
at~~~~~            U L'. - tlelmaiVc I i vp1A'ntIT.'anrude
i~ilr  r.~  -t  11  .*t Ths  2'  'C-  ~   ,  t:he-- Tir

iii?
j
I


88

STANDI$SHO

She had opened her eyes as he entered, given him one glance of
recognition and welcome, and then e'clsed them againIle had
exerted himself'to amuse her lic telling humorous uArevcb_;t,;'s of
his; farewill visits to his parishi4) ters, and a hint smile hai b leen
his onlyi' ecurakg'(euWt. Then fthe badturned (the vc'snver--atieII ts
the pei' that threatened the nati 4on, and the patrisstknA~ thaLt was
bursting from the heart.- of the peislo.Ie had lkinsl-ll i"Its enl-
thusiuasni as he spoke, andi he has! hs4 el t~io. aw h''r sj it sot h#e'
own igri#-.in awakening er e'rtoothe &amp;'s-4 stin in sLaingsr. But li. hadi
only ro 0 , -Z4l-Ih1r t  an p',it i4f'the ploam thti it W-i le-t rt vmgl
her. S% hf' had rui'.'l hterself fir a raonent. srr'hii~  ermrz,
exclai.mi': :. in aNth rit  ii  Ao. '  tIsrt... 11' racf   wlv %%Illli v
no(-)t  n it,  flie Ct)1uIi,:ht f1 e I taiv. tout ' -ai  dihi. i'r'.ting(
into t.r-z. hali fillterLi !lAck ups it iL'r pill*w. Mr. Till'. thaif e drut.41
andi s oTh41 h r with It;.%. Vrn pillv 1h0.lii l pravsll I' r hr .me1
with lho'r re.  arrio-AAAlv  t ehailtft heAr Xw iha o'ls..
se s  flo-  -W1  Vialility  tio t'oorit  rt lth . r QyjsonlyIv tho, I ro-att  (  n-
soler. h.OI Joe er ,Hoo iL hi-% ire ko'n heart, anr4-44i'111"4A'. -tricke'
form.
On  rf ir,  ':T4 .the 1 anri E,1w  r'  stato  4.f  P  7, o xI  . 'tire-lv
dis42.erliuI' t '  theo- h.. riii l  alr:ro hn.;o~I .~
the  in  fi    lit,-oj'e''  h  ik  ito  a.1 it  4.t .-tractie 'I.  .A  I.. - tIx
ures ,%arr  ''o  h                  Il''  o01  '  te  lrf'&amp;t  ot o  %'.t  i  A
Iluee  IT!,. M  -'. Ro ile.  ho't  eLaleeooateIV  ant t l  A' -4'Ir Ii
silk,.'I    141 Ji.i jsw '!.. all ha m  yi u'l irr&amp;-Ivo-.i Oeye
off tea'Itto)e he 11r f.xtr'n-s'iv-  aiitv ir raohe~r J'1
young miriitrel. 11,a sk'cin o 'rt.an e4ther w. rindt. jri.ojs r ' I .ree
tion. Two, lint j111101k Chlirelarseund h4er s  i jittr :de
Ms s5poo'..liti . the scrAPoA lor the ravo'llesI, rs'ejuirteel tho 1.' t o 1t sf hr
shirt. Awhile' Tshe l-  I*,,AAAlt#e1.teoI at  f sl  uftted  with  all1
hofr,  Mil.iin is'  t ' 1. l  h. elit '.i'n rple  w ite. ith  .  m -
ment (xo  opt lher Iluxuriant 1ri''  et  ar,is I  . trr   Te
beau    '      1,111, C11riArr t  %.'.: Wrk. Io1nn:irt:z     S."Oo
''6II1-w  i irke-. l iphr'*-oe-e'  t  .e'hjt  Mr.  Tkil   .''ar
ahne'  . t  p, re- type". 4of t t e  oluir45 rTI t  fr i ,i  w  Hi i'  '  f
cons,i '  '  I te  .%. f f 'r 't  i :. '  .t M ,'
a  si.           j. h r  ;a  xx-  -1, '.he'T'.hIl',j1
glanco.  fit -i.   r ,' aI.r  .'  -o'ci ' v  v rtno '  r.c!  1 f.1 r  NN  rk
fall  1".1i!'           rk'1..           ''  t  1   '' o%, I.-  I 'I
fo r aA A''                                               A l o  r II'toe  aL' P'd

STANDIS 0

9

AYOU have'f-.r1)lv e;Arlt, "sai Rse4 '.ilu.ps' i.
"Very we'll, then keep theta for the new r
b at' e'cr"vmen."
Mi'~  eo~~i',if I wort! to_) Sa'.  ;1Ttoei~  1 iCip ressiutn is n-
chritia. V~U  ~ul  hot lce.  lim'..,  I will ;z.~  ' Uiallk'
Strp~:her little firtst ~  '1. r' a  I do hate Vos'' _U, you
l h:.  iy friotl'tis willmako h i' wr vl .,v w.:'-1tho Idis
lie' p~ too o~'"j ~'ht ansI truthful toeu't.o it.eIiuh'rai to
''.oe'r  't'  " 14t o.'.'io  hlt s 5ti  ii,  '.atir  . 1' lithe will  suit  eu,
Mi'"  I  ~ io'  1wi-4h  I f."t a'  .o'viv im ale  t hiinx1 "I other rheeo''
will hi'':,or'r hjinih'IsF.
vo'x  .t!'-'tayh'r'v     erM r. Til'o    l ' lae ~~we
*  I .  tri:ia will  hav' o ''t-  o  :  V  t-7   -'~~F'i
T   t:  '     I        , '. M   f tlite * r''  -F1ort V x\v
L~t  to 1.i.  ".' r  .ri:s v  )-r ,p I i t- rni'.l v a  '.  v c
1       1itt ':'  i   '1 -1  I t 1"  i l  r  - ,I s''.  .I il  il~o s
j .  l !  '   i   ro, i ''i  i  I i tv  sur r   .,i''  ~  taz
it  '.si)'I  I i' fr  ssrvlo'o It  W'11L  ko'  11  4i~   4~   H  s
ui ir ilv   ;11A'.  m   P-it ' ill W ' .all  te  i  orw   K rthm
t ItI'                H111--'I  F''  : '  ArAs'  ' m '!  frtIe  r  k  r
intoArh ftxr''hPret' nuiere a
I.~hnI : ti~am     'T*h' . .0,fi n  e .nm.I did
't t i "V.,  j~ I  ki  w  th' Fs  H ieT14' Isrv ke.1' ait  Y u  x'o are
f'm~trfi!'x'1     B :'t'2i4#           in'~ v~  '~''  tu'i , , 'O~  I~o
Ii~~                              17,o  j
I""~~ II T1~   0 ' ''
-4 A         0
litt''  0  0  p  oln  li.' ~  ~r:'. ~  ttI  Kr'. '.'' 0'  .K~oe '
wth             itl  '      ot'l       - '            em
F'.  i tF  .' 0''  &amp;~  .  .'1
0                                              .' ro
:~'A                                             I 01  x'Z'±.  i V  "
A1 1  4X01                 1  '0    .   1 le
t' 'if F.'0
Iva,'n

U


90               8'r~AXDSII-8AS!SH.9

"4Exactly so. A c. 'u.in. tall. datk-baired. handsome, - a queen to
rule over a mian's heart with undisputed sway, and allow n,
meaner -divinlitv a plaee."
Rosalie turnedwith tnit a witril. and went into the h u .Hai
sh tke h j.stivig ,woris in earnest. Et1waril th''iiPht. 1i~'l wou!
she pra ti--o noIfl' re aN1tth arts to ensnare him ?  ift-ra. illy felt
dil-;a ppa!:ta 1. an 1I1 i r~e1t follow h'',r. anii #e*xD1 11iA hi'n44,ef.
Then ht- Lig~hataIat I'-t W eakn*-ba- aal it;'iliv.a; A,'1 i''Iiise-
exarninatia ci. and it wats thus he adjusted his mental  'it with
Miss R~i'

Crr.id.
Pro' t v.
'hai~rlni if:.
Lik  l' Ia..

Dtha.

lit    T       I r,  t  91 1  k~ a
a.,,,* ar.               V. .  L' at  a  t  l
takt   V       al  I:i  Aa  a    .  t  I:a'
titat 31r.  T ,   K".*t it,"    h  ':.':t      :
Awh w"' -x     -..-x  ia  'f  T '-  I  ' '
1P~t        T      2 it r   11 fA      Faa
a          a1 a        t x- a
ait]~It \  - *  0I  '  1.  Ka'~  a''o  ii  I  ja  'aa  iat1
3n4.  IVi            aA           I  aa  t
a  a tx'a  t~  ~   t a'  Z'La  ~a~  a~aaiAl-1
al        I aW= 'a t  rrau  n  n  tVa*     h  ~a
a.  l  tuu  a  a~i 'U   *alaa  aiaa  aa~  a  h  ts  PP
tha. j    ~  aPINI       'rt.'.a'       4     t X Aim
a     aT1a          ?x   Wa  I K'        w~1
7A a",-I tua'       ~a   a a ~ a :a
sajakaA
sh 1k   ' r    a        Aaay\' Ita' " I  aa a aa  'aala I i
I  aa   Cia        I  --a
M iniaU            tl    t ho  waia . aaaa  i art  al~
a4 p 'I' l  r
the  a  )  a  'a  'a at  le  a  '  La  Ii,  a)a'  1  vrT
~~Ir  Ft  al ~~~~ a~~  t alIia a  ' a-a a auraa

Minnie turned hastily away. "1 can't tco-night."9
"But to.-murrwow I shall toe gone."
"Good~-bv. then,"' said Miunie. pale flut reso4-lute, holding out her
d --I Omust hvlp higher put away the thing's."9
Mr. Taliot to ak her hand1. anil held it.
SkSatV~  hall. Minni., but U'.t to-night.  You are pale  some-
thing . 1taull,  vatu.ald v..u o1 n''t speak.  C'an you forget, in a
Inham'nt. ;011 P1t tilS In .ment oft all 4%tht-rs. the cfotfidenCe that has
exi-,tsskl ftir  %,v.:l vt ars- tc'twett ii u
It i-  ii, it 1. -Mr. Tuillo4''t. wht 1hal, ti ir-;t l'r.'kn this confidence
you havo     ~Uuntrue to it. Y, IU haUe a nidered wue a child, and
Dr apln: h'r r al . Ihv  'a~btIn iia       'iaMinfnie,
i'ut I i                                     myve  l' tva  at  Y  l jtnvI''v:wt  our
~ ~ialV .u i                     3111:. haa  r1 tw tha.tyou
are  vvary 1aiair t4,fp tivt-fl t  Ix  'aha .u  I t~f v ur a ffeca.
1t baa  l.     1.1 '  h t                        lev~ .~tll  A  h1.r~..  i'rp
.4~ ~ 1    'A. K. a 1,   :cr11.1; la Ita1-11 a i  aTr  nI~a  :Pta i t,
itt.v kj  ~  ' IIa   ~ I .£ I  J  X a n,  I *.  i r !ai rcdi-;l)
untru t     .\xh ~t~:w~x~"'~irvi.tread at
yaaiur jliaFa  .Itr'         '::     Itt  .~art wAV'rl1rI C'
Y ~ t                                       T ixrai:I I  ,  ~.!~  'r CoUsin
pr. aia vh  x   :  1'ipint        r    . : f r  1in,
2'KrIX.                              Ifi~a~.I.i'  Ax ana.W4ord.%
.Ii~atrt~tv a a!2nr  T  ::  I ~ai.i  KI.x  vu have
h.aa!      l I.r                                  %v, .  ~ l .xr  ri tevta
Ilic' W11  t-A  T                                       I. ''  vt ':'aa  la *'l nY .inl!a  ~ lWhe
Va~i  r~.'  ': I  '  I  xI   I!t  I  n  l  t  attLVai
verv                                                     11 ~  ~T  ~ta t
* rtI Vat iu ~ynI pier.
tk                                         011  O11  O
~'it-i 1                1.
ta ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     A 7~\*  1 1 a.aa  \~

ill'.

90

91

ffANDLSHO


0

0

92

8TANDIsH.

alone. I never meant to hurt you. my pet. When you turned upon
me with your colid. reproachful words, the pain they gave rue torp a
veil from my heart. ~1 then felt that vou were more to me than the
child I ha I always considered you. -~dear as that child was. When
I founI yir c oldne-... camne frai jealousy of Miss Raalie. and the
belief that I was v air~il to another. mvheart 6eat wildly with the
hope th it there mi::.rht be hidden under yo'ur childis.h lov' fir me. a
d -epar 1vi than vio v.urself knew. But still I hesitatedl.' Even
if V- -1 Cl-Ilbe per41ia1ld t4 lay asile your romance. ail take fior a
1 over. instead 4 of the aloring  ltve that novelist! love to p int. a
grave nui. tifteeh years lier than yourself the very stringth of
wh   - iai '-ti .n f r yvu. had  ft.1i n 1ale him stern aid ex  tvin
reav ti rjpr 've wh-.n .ther, y j!ijd *yo  anid al  t jorisle no
l  etr  f r  the  furr : evesn  :  :! 1 1 p-:sos  v u  t,  1vriok  a!l
this. hail J ,1 right to try- ?- Was it nit sacrilege t dli.turb thio
peaceft:l litt.- heart. ir brin: a V1per 11sh to th- pu..r. iheek. than
I munt    * r, l myI  ' .ih wi . awil  I t e v ur iut IT0unfernred
unb~   l t a:. 'hLt yur heart n.-   1 r ii ; hpirf to ri-4
that, uv-h  i!  !i I r.:IN kn i v  1# t! v  t it  Tjesr- b  w, I # o  t  0  Iflt
clurely n 't !1 ali , nwth it in o third p--r-n T- I fvo~r come
betwenu-. T      di.T-r th . I k oIi.f that4161 ,  o- wife .f
mine. wi  h.r  j n--lo   fits, -- li F Tili ltt)in.- : k-eii  y u1rf head  n
my i11 r  'iillfot haW ait1if' t do with h'r v40u my:j be1
sure.  MiI-. hiNte). nw  w yvoiu  m sr I ucI#,"star di m ..  I JomtitIioe  'hVi
that. d     1uri: my a-once-  and I cnnt tell h w Ion  that mat 'be,
-.I wil ke-p ipotleos t1l faith I nw  phel to y a     D..' V01
believe n '
Indeed I i. v-i ar- truth itw0lfi'
Fooih girl.y y  n t niit dl44 al in  eh exa:cratino if yoll
expect nt% t     # l'li. i .t Do yu pr..ir- to lt no ,'il e c  my
part. iir i  ruU  .r  r tattling  fri e-l,. s-h Ak  v..r faith  in  . ! --
" Ye-
-  T, r   -h:  Y  iou 4 1 1   r :-1- . me V-- f  i i  r  m :A
youi ate'-r c I mnyt n:        k. w     w t v i .2: w.y.-
'- 1 i           n . - l. Mini'.~vith    aireh miIe :  -  I  w t r  t  '  .  he.
can.'  v  ::         an  ' -atir:--IV that  .  !,r ' N A il  i  Y
as I ii
tha t                    i h      rmrd      But i
y~ a                     rtu       h                 r
p              t  I- h   n-l  re  betto-r  the  her  xn  l ., r-v.
Y -t.  li a                      1 b .t i:  in  tr yt  r  ti  s  .aritite
1'r4 t.                    Vr wW        nt to mit".
a~~111                       1  ill 11i4  fia    s  ei
Y                               A
P  I '~i-.        ~:.--th. kn iw I shall nivet irefer
-'I pr-  v. .
~  ii !~  r~' I.ri: I wiill be 'dmr for y- ur cake
Y' Im b-    'i- - I tht ye will bel4-r~e in myv djxt n to you,

8TANT)Is.

93

and be true to yourself and to me. And now. Minnie. God bes
you and keep you. I am going away without putting one kin of
those sweet lips, fir I must not te unzenerous to you, Minnie; I
dare not call you mine. Raise your head frim my s-houlder, my
child. and give me one last smile of confidence and love. That's
right: now go. darling."
Minnie ju.hed the heavy braids oiff her tear-stained cheeks, and,
springin;r to her feet, raised her brown eyes with their unfathom-
able lotpths of tenderness. for one moment, to his, pressed Mr.
Talbot'- hand a.rainst her heart. arid without a word was gone.
Edwari remained in self-examination.  Ilad he act-et jua.tly by
Minnie    1 Ilad her happiness been as much his motive in what he
had done- ani said to-night. as he at the moment supposed !  s-
sion hil made this course seem the otl eL possible. but now he
saw all the reasons against it. He felt. hail he been c. ioulted as
a friend iin a similar case. his judgent, uninfluenced l, his heart,
woulil have ;zivon a very different verdict. He review-'I his whole
conduct .lrigiIf the evening. and the result was far fr mn atis4actory
to his cn hie     His sensual oh-light in Miss Rosalic's Forittiness,
his gratified vanity at her marked preference for him. hi- love of
teasing her. to extort from her saucv and flattering werdls. these
had  tIn the beginnings of all that had followed. and ..Xf-et, gruile-
less Minnie' hail ten the victim. He was roused lxy a heavy step
upon th 4 gravel walk. There was Minnie's father: he niit go and
confif.Z.- all to hone-t William  Campbell. They walked towards
the little lake. arm in arm. the simple-hearted farmer telling Mr.
Talbeit. in his strong. expressive language. how much the-y should
all miss i him. Edlward remained silent. thinking how he should begin
his confession, and. after rejecting several extenuating narratives,
he adioptedol the course of a bol. true nature. and plunged in media
ro, without preface or apolwzv.
-- Mr Campbell. at the minant if parting with yu  lanzhter, I
told hr ho was very dear to me. and while I would .TI allow her
to make any promise to me. I plebri-l my faith to her.
)- T  her ! to whom ? You c    mean Minnie, little Minnie
-- I ol mnelan little Minnie."
The diekins you do     Then you have d ne Mi' - a great
wrong ti t-lk lIve andi st'eh nonsense to a little irl th i ' just left
off shortt dre~s's. I saw her fester lay making -.me tisi:i: or other
for that bi: wax dill you 'rave br. an!di tugh she oid .y it wae
for the 'unday School scholars to ilav  with, when they cae to s
her. sh.- was as tenoder with it as if it had- be-en a rale 141 y. She 'a
none of the ways f a woman abI'ut her : y'd iurbt t have left
her to ht  dills and dowers. Yeiu kno1w it 's eio  : 1ve  h iard you
say so a hundred times.
heTrue. to i true. This yery niht. as she thltted by me1.%. waiting
on eve'r ofnl. thinking of every wamn  lut h.rself. so  rtftu4l" in her
childlike unconsciousness, I said to myself, she is half child, half
saint."
" And yet. before the evening was over, you talked love to her.
Taibot. I a'o t believe it it 'se not a bit like ii.'
"Not like the man you think me, but like the man I am.   You

I'

I


say no0thingr in which I do not arewt     o;yucno           lm
mec as much as I blae mvselW'"
Campbell stowped suddenlly and faced Mr. Talbot. "flow can
fellowit again if a man won't defend himself! There 's something
in this tau';iriess I dou't understand." lie examined ktiward's face.
I see11,% it was. as sure as mv name 's Will Campbell! When
you 1,1i Mirniie pgod-lyv. -she stiowed she likely   im *.4)yo  ould
no't help tellingv her vili lx ci her. The little gipsv! That 't
dlW a vs .TueVw.14.rall  t leve thle 4old fellaws an ay  valzd take too the
Vounll'l. 1 'a might as well try too whitil a grapevine a1way
W!r01a'WIlt 1k. a  try too make- a girl leave her lover.  WXhat s
that V I !'.ifi a While agIa; yOU pledAged yourself to her. yVet left
her fr"- ''
Fra',,, -1-air .  I nnx't  rn.t' i I'of the WI nril .arilbNe-,stre that
h''ar cha 04.   10It .Lj 4s.j-y14 1  -4I- ff art' I avan  4-11 her iniuis
M 1r  1    4 I ei£a-ji:Mr. Talfoa 't 'shazial warmly '.  In're
a brick iL r''-aiftr  1 ;11 P-l w. and rti lstktka' A wayvat Nyour
tiat tri -ks-.  riilNT,  VtrVT11 hii .r.anl taikini.z ijt  i  r-ii it.  It, ni
little M31it!k~iz ~AV17if'' a_- Ithink h'r.  'N fi11 i- i'ut he-r ehIdjIIh
choi .  w &amp;I a Ota" true I, l'.arid  tw rizlht  trial   ti o i-ehot tieIf fbr  a
gr'att  Z, - I,r  4'.hv-art  liko  ysour-4. 1-i*,el 'ii 2-!111too  t~kt.' in the wi-hal~e
worid.  a,-.I  fh  L -t- r,11it or-,; t, ile-t  lc i1e .the7.. *S an  C-11  ttit.
You Al wvr1:#' Ifta'n
XlS       II-f*~t     ilMs     ambl     allb for nit' I shall
not return to-)t~ht se GAd bless you all."

9 ISTAINDISH.

It canni-tb, that his form is cold and stiff. his 1.llio:e 1hulled in the
Silence #of thle grave. Ella, the sun Shines as hyrightv lhr dav, ad
the csuntloass worlds at night 1.'mk dewn with a.% calm ni d sereneo a
light :lea"Ud, are swelling. d ,4 wersls oN oti~lz, birth. .igi coul
this to-.xA'idErue--.,t igo  one lwit~hh Ils lHlH'Wit'E..his iwuaty, his
rich 1)itI4. 1 i 1e Ithought Div scarred ani wazsted life- would re-live in
him. ljvirta and s k~ thtmen would forg:ive iIth 'kk.,Jrii Iha
CaUS-Cl. tht- %%r. hg I hlil n#%fir the sake f one W1o-14 0Nuqlidprove
a llYt' lllrae1.ou . k nreproaehlil at mt.. ELA :viou %;ay,
-lit r -i- v iir Chris~tian r#**i-Pnatieon, your f rItu'  .u  at?
j i ar  tih, 2if yu arelaway. Iinu-t   t., v u   c annot
f- f~ Iir a I .,jI~r hls i.113url -*paratilon.  Lir  -a I*t  wshall
ttll 111t. 1           t. t Etr'--;tlcuravit., us.:frorn  I  %%M! him  in-
ViaII1H#IllaI    Ti  w  h ei s ro tll r 7A,  t      *,,i''~. fr  us  the
1 i  .*  arth  artd  i~vei.W1 1  3a1I ri   I I I IiiI 'AV
Leat  t:1  it V-1.,Ella  1 I  o iii  le r  w  Ir i-  It"  im  .rt  fr  'a your
Ivp.  Nw .jyrlararil Th'l . I 4 I  atthe WoirPl .  W 0, 1! , JIfffbut
euaa'li  till IUVtit i lix' 1 via ro  , iwe,,noit *  'U 41
1fl42  a  r:.rial  4.111'  nt  ' i l i .  1i i'' pro'1  14  Torri ble
at:i1tt     I  t.41 tl  Ltll i t awr:l . 1, '  1 -,  j \  t  i will
wanit I iP,.r %wh~tir ILViv 11 4llk;jtL 411tl-I'I ~11\~  I rt A'hed
face.  -,  ri(%tat 1tWith        Ili-%'  4 zjr l rl! c11 diiii. t .%  1#-e :i e
1myVol  I   I)) kl  a,;'. 'tatI  ,jvol 'ti  41 kiwolI rIt'it .r"  0)rtit nv  energy
anal cilurLio,% which  141141i n't a,",r  r I wa'  i ri--hi ir groerhorn,
Whorl I IIC1with hlifi  bla~ytut. t 1,4,ic trik xwih ' *ou Ella,
I d  I ik Iti  e  it ru thi'  t '.. EI'ear. .M I  f.  '~i l   n
411l1I1 ti Ilk  iny  !-hartl Ij  to  1,:kt  at  ftir-ttooII --tri jI t fl\11v i!f. and
pflgl.I  Iv  yaW _lk i t  4"1f  p  jp I h'  \ ,111I
anil  tills [Two  Ik  -j4 i l4toai vi I *r  \ I' r  F.I kIn Il  iT t  wals  a
Kr il! ,4 Lx'fior ii-;. wiiiE 4v1   11  :I1t..  %~I  til-t  t Hv Kirig
I t .11v  at LT. 2Il V--1i I  I  ' "  AI'i'1 ~t I  al I.efot
t                            t  I:               LnI "IV
p.Li'It    11 11.1  if ~ tI  l   a  ir.             t.Lnlily
I t  i, I  w  t N,  r  7 1  thllI  'iT 'v !.' Irhit 0 I(  4:11It  f the
at  hLi-!.  '   hav  Inn 1!V Xv 4V A- i                 H!I ITi. ' VV .  and
t-rn  1 I.  L'I that  M\ L l 1 )  'I  I. f.'il   .1 -  ''the
day  w!1*,i l o-1 41 l ".h1#6'W,01h 01#he rI r.'.t T T I  '  ~  C c
Ta3i# hI'ti nit' Muldalena ha zr o- tei.ha'  w ,p, h  tIth wnd
leahi  i .anAW4f breT-1l 9164.aal            Ft~rBunti

CA PTE R X X I V

Trr i f~ rExI r IT i ot tlether h~r'o~-f  .,al"
'4t~TI Eli 1'.  Id . I-t'  a 1.cc  paklj:  ith  h
II-Tt#rILi                                    e
tears  i  Ik'''  2Iii'i~  r1  aL tl  ik l I. .  ' Ei.

..N I-  ,t:-  \" ,  -

fv..j Vciv vedvcur sad letter. It bad
fti oflef'nrslL   Ih    ther wit hout ever loein~z able tooa e -
take  ti. I '-4r, T blivet hohitart-.rend ing intelli~'r.*  ta'ti~
OurIf r14.Cf:'rv l.'~i Anm I never to feel those little arms,; pressed
rt innI T.14I  I i't'tIthat perstiasive Voice     1,*-Ia'walked
the str.""  aIIRIweaul Iturn to rnaze upo%-n his ltiely fae  no one
could r'i. his winninip waysR: all would hast#n to grant his request
that they Tnigrht receive his we0 takan   aese    weer   pil

il~

uc

InSAN. 1) 1 S U -

4

94

G E X i).k.    a rf - h 20.


'Q9T1LSTANDu I.

97

BTAKDISH.

terrible chan 'A which ch'doh'ra jro"Iuces i''n the f tur  h' m- tj
w~ej'lvria  Wit 4 fVi 'let 1 c'.ul'I lolarn IL 4Ar. 1.l ' Zi
vvgnWh!O, falar-+1 ivetWs-W!1 he-.r disappearance i4'4!11 th" villa. aat1
har vriv if litI i~t roi:tfii.' will aiw  Isrv."n;At a yt .-ry. un'l. itiv!
P484i -il 1*               N.#: ~  e'~'rd,~ that ,h~~Air .x "Is' ac 'tt
of  h'''i'
ri  W.P4i..I must  ro-turn  to      ?''0ia  l v''11.  B134
vouir  I'tr r  heI .ri .  I1:1 IerI had  14J%4  1';A *..
hala  ~2k  i~ "cit'rri  1, t m  N *r 1't     I;r '
UA~r~   II  I I that  (A'mrri-,  11hLI  v          4t It.A
hC t       ''I      xt I  :IlI t     -11  :   ~        +1 +'  '
W'  t   .  . -~  '  '.' t' t li ,  l I xv x:it . A lr
if t''v  r   K k~ I NI~r:"  av.. tv. th   V  . :.A.' 11'rTim
tht +          ~   '  I   ''-i'
t h  I L%"t,         -1 ar-. I  1 :2r
if 4i,''
A.j r                i rj                       '
r LLuI
v, :i r  xx  'Kv                     ' ;
Wi'  I  i'.'           I  j   ' T
I                                   V6, rIxv, !

feel your arms encircling my neck, and your kisses cool my b 9hlt
forehead. Arid once, ontly once, your lips pressed mine : life
Soul seemed breathed out, in the ecstasy uf that kiss-. How I
wished that I might never wake tto find it 0adv a vision.
6Good-tivmv sweet Ella, my ang(el-wife.
It w4nl'l lAe"'liffleult to analyze the mixeil emotion-s that agritated
Ella. as; she rt-1a1 her letter. llx'race's g'ri renewed he-r own, yet
there, was A.' 'ml' rt in the thought that their c'$mrrwn suff-ring ww
aa')thvr l'An'l ltww'n themon. She wias thankful tht s:-earc'h I Italy
was to vecr. 1Ibrace hid been odeceived, -she d(id not cjrc toA know
ho 1w. it xw'a', LI sA IP 4inhil :and n *w ho! W.I.. V '[haliyrne. cI-ringing
arms. hAAi lr''.t Iv toA ig-ht for the Uni''n. 11I ow pr4i  she ft-! t of his
rnuri2r".  Ev#'t± Annla had, allowed that h1, 1l,1 -t, wn crcat gallantry
ni he,'-~li'ricampa"i: andI sht! Wet- ll;' iii" 1'AAIJ. at.r I11'.4 wound
n LUorIAr ily, h~ow Gai'itoadi lh.i Ad it" t hti Wtel--  h . ywa
and sfl~'i~r. pressed him in his ar"-- i~ aflllxl  imlw  av
American s It.
The-se  e'li   (of pride were  ~''".r by t#'n dtmne  11. ow he
lov'edI I&amp;             flaepaatu i hl Log  A o A(chll hi.-;afl"'('tinIH
ltnged tiA have lif''r with him' lf#' ie n.' 1#A'd hr to CA wlAi-rt tnil cheer
him  : V  't h h 1AIi g.'x-ro;u&amp;1Y .1%,ac'i( -1  i*-;w i.-.he i.tA  sa' I' h r 'pain
and A U1l'It' iv'e u     thngfr himxi    Oh, utI't''ntptatiom
Tho       1 1'tettrL'Atcs'. tivt' mst pas-"iA fit*l a7gniever
wea.' axv~r~r ' ~ res. li' #infQS4 1 much as thi's goner Asitx' on the
pa4rt 4'Ii" h,-m 1,vlin .e h'ves.  While LErii."-t live-d. -,hevalued her own
ress~t. heam,"" val of he.r cAl 4YWWt'Tci,. the teste-*,iu of the wiprld, all,
f'.r hs        he wasos u ffA' r rng 111m -. a5'wo-4l a'if4'r the iht  n
the I ,Ve   themAitlier i6hit1A  '4 't4, ''kb o5'  f the w' tohuinA But
E rn" t -to%. what was thA' W-..' t ftis  'l-lilf Was it even
w irt hi- r tAA lieherAe. feel-lf.' anel us"l.-' insteal A4 Af -.rrinn'zhealt
&amp;,,,I odrenizth. a'-.. 6.4iuknt-w s shopt' uIAls41,.In ii 1Lrac# s presence,
ehtxvkilg r r #. rles. t thei' 'w'll ivc. i n pain, and f,'ring rher-
.a~ f t o   I e   A h A'4 rf ~ .   t h t   T '  r fit h   r a k t'   h i m   s'1 S .  T h e nt .  t   A,  h e
no&amp;*eedel f hr t#1 make him roeadx'fi' r the war  sh  knew sit well1 what
a '~.'li'rr. ui'- and ivit tiftil s-iiiha'il bid him gAAAAA1ol1A v. would
she all' xv he.r tirmrt'ss t.' . ak hr. Buit all this,. tho, 'luty as well
&amp;s happio-z- 14 Othe-r wives, it was '-in former t'v..n ti-)think 'f.  Poor
O'hilo'.14--t 11-  ir  p kA  vil over this sZtrla:iz  '. -  t"'i'redl to  I' w 'onby
Arty mfortal 'v'*  That weary lit-int. S,'r#,Jy te  ft.4fA'Allll its
utter w#,akAA"-;. turned in anagi tvA 51AI  Uailit) dte great Con-
Soler, ani~l wAs - av l-4

"-F  r if Virtue 'fl e vwo'ro.
fi .-e "'~'n  f wo A   to-Ivp A.'ht- r."

Calm. thou '!i exhaustted4. Ella wrlite- a ftw iromfrnzn lines
Hf1-ora 'c  t'lighim  all. 3a141 sent t hA-rilatV I'to  t . P.1ul"-..thouz-h
she tolars.l th.'v w''uld fnotreach Bi3AstiorAIAn t#IfiA'tO Ifle~t lttrn. onihis
arrival there, au'l then i zArk i   t  h  d ee p -; I op that fA'llo~w,-i up n
exhaustion n.
9

a

4
'I

ait'

l

ftl&amp;
70


96

8TAZDSH-

CHAPTER XXV-

IT was a bright starlight evening when Edward Talbot turned
into the broad shady avenue that led to Alston Manor. His horse
was weary, but his impatience would not allow him to rest: he
urged him on with whip and spur. A large black dog came out
growling to medt him, but he had only to say, "11 ow now. Don:
have you forgotten me ?" when the animal's growl was changed into
a bark of reognition and joy. His anxieties for the safety of his
father anid coluir hal increased. as he approachel th*- e'iil of his
journey. He often tho ught over all the incident '(if ll pleasant
visit, a var sine" : t  Iathtr, as he then saw hium, enj..vin that
serenity *-ei beautiful in ap, which only a well-spent lif cam bestow
honored and trustee by his friends, loved by 1his children ani ser-
vants: hiiv cous*i' \irenia dit!l1"nsin. with qunieenly grace. the hos-
pitality t r which Allsteon Man  was so famous :~ a:Ad his brother
Harry. dear r than all to him), a -"ier ly natur  and profession.
Then they had joked ver all their P''tical differ'riees if opinion,
without a tuch of oitterne s, anl new -- hw chaei he might
fiad everVthin. As Edward drew his reh. to let his horse take
breath, arid tried to quiet. with a few caress. lh  Wrmu greet-
ings, " I'wn there, softly : there s a good ferw I " a elark figure
rushed aerio's his path. )tretching eut his hands- end exclaiming-
Ltr1 bress us. that ! t Massa Edward. anti no m   take"
 Why. Ca-ar, how plie nt it is to see your htues face again
How are 9014liinah. -Jim, and Georre?"
" Th-'m*"''w!l: only ol Dinah. The hab de rhumatiz: but then
she hab that rnot ever sines yu ' born,  But let 's hush. m assa.
and no-Pt SA:V tIe l ud. cause this 'er niger afra4_ smebody ' hear.
Come mns   th trees, massa.
And (';r lt'l Eward's bLorz m st m y;teriously fr m the brog
avenue into a neighboring thicket.
There. Cesar, that will do !What is it
Oh. misa' the vig'ance is here'."
What I- that, something very frightful?'
Mas'.a E lward, deant y'1u knew : It 's de renth-men. Mass
Mason. avl Fairfax,. and I.rianolph. and IHoepkin-*. andcl a plaVue-
sight mnre. with rev.olvers and such like, a!l 'zamining round, al'e
axing c'ur u qu*'sti 'ns,.anI we are all afe'aretd le t the tif swome
harm to eld Massai' u-, he wnt be af1ared hisself, leut sticks up
to tde Star. ;0l ec- tripes : says him btorn unler/'em, and him gwine '
to die utvir 'om'.
Get eed baven~  are the ecemnittee with my father litw9',
Cordin to Unele Phil. they 're gwine to do libc'rvi, and it 's all
kinder solemn an' funeral-like."
" And my brother, - where is he?"
COlonel Harry, why he i.4 in dt, (amp, a mile off: he 's safe enaff,
cause he "s secesh. and a colonel ob iinbantry."
"We muszt seni for him with ut a moment's d lay; he alone

STnNDISH.

N.

will be able to protect my father. Which of the boys will go the
faster?"
"I reckon my Jim 'a most reckless chap about: he ' allers
gwine round de camp, too, cause he thinks eb'rything of Masse Harry,
and they all knows him thar.
While old Casar was speaking. Edward had taken paper and
pencil from his pocket-book. and written a short notte to his brother,
begging him to come to the Manor w thout a moment's delay.
Here, take this: mount Jim on the fastest horse in th.! stable,
and tell him not to spare the whip. for his master's life may depend
UponI his speed."
" Yes, wassa Edward, him go like de debel: nothin' him like
bette 'r.
Edward lnow turned his h    rIe into the avenue. and gailked rap-
idly en. taking. however. a circuitous rilute. that brought him round
too the back (of the house. Here he dismounted,. and sending for
the ky of me green      e which tfopned ilnto the library, deter-
MI-into a terin thilSway, lest the iont 1dptr should b te guarded.
lie fund the window between the greenhouse andl the library
open, aced, placing  himself behirnd a screen of camilias, he pos-
Sessed himself of the situation. The ctormmittee were seated round
the r4 om: ine of them had a paper in his hand. to which he often
refe-red. His father. in his arm-thair ly the table. with a sterner
express"iotn than tisuaiontl his fine f t're. was .sakinrg.
-- AntA niw. gentlemen. that I have answered your questions,
whether satisfactoorily or nit. yti yoturselves must determine, I
should like to ask you. by what rilfht. forgetful of the courtesy
which has heretofore marked your rtlaitns with me, you penetrate
my hou - at this late hisur, and examine into the arrangements of my
plantation ani hturehold !"
Ztounll. sir. we have no riizbt to do it "  answered young
Mason.   I have been ashamed (9t myself all this ever ing. I am a
mtate-righnts man. and prepareilto upheld Virginia agaiut all crea-
tion, if nece-ssary. hut I am a stltlier. and not a ,PY
Matn, y" i nare young antd hastv." rjoined the chairman, Fair-
fax.   All tof u, mu1-t lbe true t Vr.inia'in this crisis.  he needs
either th., wealth or the stron ;irrmts of her sons. ard we have been
appointed to the painful duty of lenanling by feri'e, from those wheo
will not give freely. the c ontributitons which the e'  cause requires.
I have on#' mitre charge to micake against yitu Mr. Talbot, which
seems toe uto be a very "rave one. It has been reported to this
committee that. during the la.tt mi-nth. forty times the food that
could ble -osuediinel in this ffmiify has been daily prepared in your
kitchen. di:,A dtjj'.rilbuted tot Uni  hriker antd vagahbtnds.''
-- To thlse who needed it moii st:Union people. if you please, Mr.
Fairf.tx. if those have suffered most."
These last words were spoken ly Virginia Lee. who had been
seated partly ctncealLe by her une~'s chair: but wflW, starting up.
and glancin.. reundl indignantly upon the assembly, she continued -
" Gentlemen, I have tried to listen patiently to your charges, for
my uncle's sake : but I can bear it nli loeng-er. Patience ceaes to
be a virtue, when Virginia gentlemen so far forget their birth sad
education, the example of their fathers, the kindly influences of

0

1J


sTArDISH-

their mothers, wives, and sisters, as to bring such an accusation as
this against the hospitality and charity of Alston manor. Forty,
more than fifty times the food needed by my uncle and myself, has
been daily cooked here under my superintendence, and distributed
to all who asked for it, without rterard to political differences. As
long as you confiscate men's property for their opinions, we cannot
see them starve, while we have bread enough and to spare. Had
you, gentlemen, ride up to the' Man ir ia a different spirit, the
best that we have woulol have be'ena piaed btfiore you. Can you
have the hearts of men. and yet. at such a time as this, when fami-
lies are divided against themilves. and friends rust part to ruet
in deadly conflict on the battle-tield, wish to cause unnecessary
suffering. by forbidding the comn tioleari's of life to)  -1, ow;a
to those who are so unfortunate as to.diffr froom you ini opinion:
I love Vir-rinia better than the who Iwt'rld. and  y hart is on
the :'Qutht-rn side. but I shall n..t dse!.rt iny uncle because he believes
his duty obals him too the Union."
As Virinia enoitoL. hsl throw  nlioi rin rouolni  her u nr'h-': neck anl
*tood leaning against his chair: the Co010or depned upon her
beautiful ch-k, her lon- black Llahs hadl  with tears. a-aoI her
bosom swelling with suppr ed emotion.
It was a vigilance committee, boat it was male up of Virrinia
gentleman : and they aros. with 'o' acc r 1. oi king heartily ashareed
of themslva. and pr"e'd ru l! 'Mi-" Virginia with apologies. prot-
estations. and excuses. At last, te chairman, Mr. Fairfax, referring;
again to his paper. saild-
Mr. Tatlbmot. I hop.' y ,u will pardon o our intru:tion, anl attrib-
ute it to our zeal in a cause which is very dear to) us. If Vou will
have the kindness to sign a check to our order for a ft'w hundreds,
some mere trifle, we will retire at once', andI you shall be allowed
to continue, undisturbed, vour usual mode of life."
"0Bribe you, sir, to let me live ;as I like&amp;  Never " and the room
rang with the wonr.-
"4You mistake. my dear sir : it is not a bribe I ask you for, but a
simple contribution of "ome iof yur -upertiluous wealth to the defence
of yvour native State.''
All my wealth is at the service of my native state, to defend
her from treahery and tro asorm Iut yaur.- are not the hands to
which I would entrust it.  Y our so-calel ordinance of secession
was forced through thie 4onventiora on the seventeenth of April by
a mob armed with rev olvtor-; and bo wi-knives, against the wishes
of the majority of the' people.  But hal it passed by an unintim-
idated majority. Virginia woulol still have been, as she is, in the
Union."'
Confound it, sir. we cannot listen to such talk as this. Will
you sign us the check. or not .'
I will not.
Angry exclamations burst from the party: they retired to the
other side of the room and carried eon a discussion, in which opinions
seemed to vary as to the b.est means of subduing the obstinate sub
ject before them-.
All this time, Edward Talboot had remained in the greenhouse, an
unseen spectator, watching with intense anxiety the turn affairs were

iI;

taking. ready to interpose. should  - le - be attempted, but feeling
that his presence and the declaration of his Union sentiments, which
he must in! honor make, would only increase the danger of his father's
situation.
Young Mason now advancelI to wardis Virginia and tried to per-
saade her to leave the r on.  'he refused, and maintained her
place resolutely li her uno'l.e's si1e. her dark eyes flashing defiance
upon his enemies, though her e'heoeks and lips became colorless.
At this crisis, a horse at full gall op was heard without. and the rav
tling 'of arms. a moment nre. the -or was thrown open, and
Coonel Talbot entered. His quick -ye tok in the whole scene at a
lance. ie advanced toward, hi, father and bowed respectfully
then polayfully touched. with th- p1iime that decket his military hat,
Virzinia's cheek : that t ouch suffu'"'ol her face with blush . Turn-
ing too tho, eo ommittte. he held out his hand to each. exclaiming -
Why did vou not i'#t me know *f your bi  hore. :fnteIomen
 No o "ne answered : they were rvideritly emblOarrassed at this unac-
pertsl neeiting. At lat Ma-' n said. art1l#s-ly -
"I undo'rsto ood. C .lonOl Talb t. that yo our regiment. -that is to
say. - I mean. - I heard that you'i hal go ne to Richmon rI to-day."
You heard of my orolors. a I thrfo to  choose this time for your
visit to tho' M nr. 'Fort-miat'lv th-  or ors we're c otrmanded,"
and a d4ark frown (Lou L41 .1 4 ol Ta!1 ot's brow :kbut in a moment
it was goule.
Frowns must have felt thomsels complctly out of olaee on that
handsome. sIany face.
Phil. brin:  mne wine." he crime. - -- brandy and whiskey. t)o
these gentlenien have ri i len several mnilo. an1 must require refresh-
mont. Not here - in the dining-r ormA we will go there and take a
cigar."
"Thank von. Colonel." answero- iMr. Fairfax.  -- but first there
is a little matter of business with v ur father. We  -
Never mind lbusino" : tii i ~ ft  the tiim t r busin-S ;'" and
Colonel Tallot ltwhisperol a wri iP  e ar.
The. comrylitte' I. e t. ,Mr. T  -c - nM M -v L-. :l with lrew.
' Thank heaven. '' .ried Virginia. -t, the d or !- upon them,
 we are rit Rof th.E do df1 mRrn at i,1I,1rry h"a' 'o d
I think I ow. my th ank'a to y %1. r.aitr. -'answor IMr. Talboot.
smilin:  '' Y- are a lhor  irl  Jha hcarrh I  wxy iy y your fel-
ings.   omnen hiave no prin.-ip!o  ait I an Oxh atti v all this,
and mut   oto t t. '# -A will ,--rt t privil 1'
Mr. Tall "t oppd at tho d -r. an I s aiol  Vir::ina. d  not let
Harry come to m.e to-night
No. do ar ur. ut '' - an I b  r iia ran l i threw her
arms romounol her u'1''s nek. -  -' wh'%vo oj 10 slo lhin t Morrow,
speak kindly to him, a-  V4  u  h      y  r    nodw0s so much.
You are not an-rrv with him ?
"No. not an:rv : lbut woundlo!. V'.' ato tho' heart. his hand-
somlc fii, oonce ooomedo to !' trouTh a.. '  nd now. to look on him
and think th~ it he has t orne I tr Pr  b tLl1wke't kjind. too, for he
was educateod at hik c.ountry'  myoon -t" defeondo her !''
SOh !uncle.'' saili Virini~a mf -rin y.~ -- do not love uis les, be
~-we differ from you on this great question."

100

101

SrADrS. 


'p
es/f

102

STAND .

'"Come, silly girl, let me go. I sallaways love 'You the
same."
-No1   btaroise to try to love Harry, too ; he is a~s honest in his
cOnvict-ions as ' ou in voUr.'
Mr. TaIIxt stcxoped andi kissed her forehead. "You do not know
what you ask of ne, c"hild ; I Cannot."
Team te'arne into Virginia's eyes. as the decer e'lecsedo uptin heir
uncle ;Strive to.I they WouleI agrains.t it. thes-.e political diffsarc, i4t#es
would brin-: Iiccrdwith ttrn      .UtCh were htr iii. eu~rtrts.as shne
t314 ow Iyiolijreached tje nret-rlme use otlr. ant i0le kc'j ct tltre  iw~te
fol1geofcanliAS ;Il.1azalias Into the starilrhn i's-ye eitd.Edwari
g-azed up~qtit her with alitniratie cit.  She "tooll, haf ill Shade anud halffJ1
light, and repeated tee hiuwsclf-
'She walk- i beautyike th - niht,
4 )f  Larry  lne.. . a d-tn i .rr - ki.
AnI .ail thiat  o-. ,i -lark  Ano1l i,
Meet in h4e r apeanti her ert's:
All --cftink-qi ttee  inellcow  lhr-t.
W111ch iL-.Askn t, .rau yit, laness'
"Virg'iia :'si Il ewdFI
'  h  I Larry. v. ci t r i te'  I JI uit veeu were 1:.,thloehning.r
roOM, Witt, that Irt?&amp;I411l ' eeUI:U te
"I am 11 1't Uharry. aln hit i  i.'h  r -t fr ruit nisteral-le that
411ellne:til  ij itr hni'n  lii Elwarj -at NVeir e4j1
triksit~in II   txak t      .upk ike       Il11irrx . 1  lV4111
try.   Bit  wh#ert.- t1el1  .ia  '  fe tjj  %'0 'A  il 11,)t  exp t t -,u  leor
a week ! "'
''  rie  i'. i t it. .e   t r ymir ii# iit IehA r e.MyVfair
Cou_1Sin, all I I iiiitievtie      It   'ae.el sm         teejs
forlit.ej'j '''U    lt" n nit -L- Ft W111",  e.We~tlt 1 Uj  "~ed that
pvrt  S l;trilrlterelii  o      l WieIe' jf,*-ttek#-, flet tee* his  swor-l.
that. I cte 'iii I hAve'   ' . Teit''e. izAef'illsplume'. ,ht--curricti off  ni'
Oh  '  e  '  lF.' wt'all  i  l~r~aV4   11t,1ar' t'  '   ttAp.
has a t I i~t 41 s  enuvrleee        i i iatii ti.n        is   o
parture'
( Ett#rIir-          Y.!      wri.11 e :1il Ia I .n o -ee VOU
Th~  F  litF'  ee et  i ~ t1 Litt r'  rm   i
* ~  ~     ~     *;  loftt  I~ jt- O  T141[ei  I IOTi h'~ eltet  eei 'altl d  euce
t~ke  i  I  tej~ ~ I  i ~t."AI i  itet'ee' lik, I n  keevp  eir  eetlit
.~tite1 t  't  '~v  o~e  'i~e  ~ e  eter.in thi'.  gre-at iclyite-t.

r

"iardly famished;- I had a very good dinner,"
"But dinner is not supper, man.  hope your charities, Virgia, I
which Fairfax had written down in bLue ink against my father, hive
not elw&amp;,A&amp;tie Io Wrer ?
"Never mindl if they have. Uncle Pil is most unlike Miss., Brem -
er's cold hm1u'Aver. who could only saw the air with her thin am
anl suzi4gest, pnah when any on'- came in unexpectedly;- he is
foruwed tter rnertericles. It waIs 4only ye-sterday he aoded a chicken
Pic to iotir dinner, with such alarmitire celerity. upon thoi' ' arrival of
SomeI fri'mbl. 01h4t I tremblNed as I cut it, lest the nursery -5rtng %hould
prove true. -' AnA when Tthe Pie wa-i opened10, the btirdis 6-gaiittsng.
I uist gi antl toIl Phil oif Mass~i Eelwardl's return.''
Wa- r eetlioH il.'aid Edwardt. wit' n she lt tthe rot in.  ''The
samie as ever. I'ipe4.cosantei faithful."
N~irr~a~~the sauw.        I I whey :y tu za par's'ln. andn41  T4 I har'e to
teachi thi             (n): l eeforward ucge iK ~rielcan
t  1ll lvlfw   t. 1 ,  IJi  ,r-)w.-_. ii. rr  risss  and lfilt A  ''V  day.
haVI't 6111I 'vihas! teasing 1him.11. D', ,  irernenitrtlir the1vIt 'halked
tho:  W!1# i!  tf the' elicanter SttTlS.  etha1,t they m!1i iht n!:t kt. t raks
i)%'tr th i t iw  .4 %vit~dtleand !411'W Whih'.1f  ur1r;Iet"t k wine
were 4goi' tw.dit   I gt t ".  LA  val- l'0 iling -Pover wiTh indig-
Y'.IlI rry. --iii Edwairdl. ln  n .I think ye u a re' rspon-
'. itl  fr h~'Ai-e)I 'k  eI tA' joi s.i fid lty. I  a-.;very
Tmuch &amp;e~ I 1--n -.uniivr. a',  t ~.where Phil waitinattend-
4ante W., Il. 1711 rfok- ic*#rvte'oerx  on ~a~  t i t  oltInot
alowhio e 'ewithUthm.-      tii*I    v+'ryV1   wi~ali Jng the
011dl    t14 1,vU              ,,1    e i   t t'erth l  rn* !1 ftal I t t  ,.iflly
chhit' 41 Ft,~ly.i'fm            k .to-it~           L ii  t lick teas,
Whe  ehlI r r'elt iore,. * #  -   r Yyitt      I *'tefit. The
e pl1eje         11j rah wa"    N I +e'4T.t ' 'iat:  e tlit , attoenrtio-n  of
thLe wl,-It'h, .; i  a: e I tur, h  ~e  VltIFP      ie~aec
And     ,I 1114,m'1 er wi t h  wh Ielt ho I-tre'th l it, i w11tempr.  W
ele'-vatl It  The11,  Atitil)  t al:'LA1111Ill't.  litre '#, Ie-1e 1 1te.
Litter I  I     ata:li -.wre1 tT~vti Ii ite'b  Witat  iht to
nee  .e   It'll ee~e e'To,    h ji.Ier, 's e11 Massa. be 's
firci'Utec '  ~  e a  li~'  leqVi\ uitr "I 'IZ : a' I there 'S
fMor 41s, I1',r41 .Ill It e r I FW41V  !II I('lt elev 4~  s  s
ae rit Phil. 11910  art  l '&amp;&amp; fIi  '-. We  i  r eOf
us  f.eer,  2        u  l  T  .'t  ill  ' I  ' 1'T,  e !  i
aneterA4 4' in            --k-i  e ~t hat fi't  rhc r this
great e~

-i
II

Ct L

All


104

STANDS.

" Yes, Massa Harry, that's for sartin: cause you see Cesar's in his
dotage. and he hab an ole wife, that he hab travel thirty year wid, for
better for worse, troo tie cole, nd de rain, and de pleasant weader.
and ole Dinah, she gobern him, and she hab two boys, Jim and
George. and they gobern her, and everybody knowd Jim and George,
they swears by Massa Harry, - and a deal too muclh swearing they
do's. and that's my 'pinion. But I axe pardin, Massa Edward: I
corned to :lI you supper was ready. and it am late."
They fiu3.1 the supper-tabislnicely spread with the finest damask
and bri:~t silver :ham, e'ld chicken, Maryland bisc'uit. and rich.
yellow ikitt-r. After all were helped, antd the servaut, had lift the
room.         . r . Wa- a i1-  i-flence. which Harry broke.
"LI -  frt aate I di#i nit g  to Richmn I to-dlar. I hail a tele-
graph: ,, Ir sumru nini nw there this morning, hut it was c ounter-
mandc1I. a:d I grumii-id. - worse than that. I ow-re roundlv.
thinking:   ;I, other o'fdir ha Istepped in and  rerd the secret
dervi   nt- Or !:11yVr- n at"
" !Y%.''  wr- E Iwar  .-- it was a danzorw':- n  t for my
father. M -h as I I-ve yur hndst.mI   tae. H1 l I ver exprt
to lon: i:  siht - it a. I did t. '-nizht. My h.t a11t  i eased
to  bear.  .:1 1 tir-t  .:ht the distaiit tr mp t If N  .ur ht r-*K  hoofs
Viriu              hI    Ilue  an etf4-,t. but n~bi lv ut yirself
could ha    ive-d my fiathtr frnm vio l r ,r impri 11int, S11ince he
would hI. % r ited their demaidb to the: uttermost. Yiiu gave them
a check I -
"hWhat did Virginia d ?"
Edwar Iughd.       'She defe-ndd h.-r uini!e with the eliuenee
of a WV   ritr and Calhoun cimbiined. Northern tr n:th and South-
ern fire wr. mire than the COmmitti-e cOuld stan-i.  titurati iv I
mnean. for, literally. it biroubAt them to their feit Hiowiri their
heads in -harn-. ief .reber ribuk.-. th'v withdrew their ebarge."
Ehiard. dst.- .'' said Virziuia. in a tone off entrt-at v.
Harry r,-  hastily. and walk- I to the window.   ~
Thi- i, -' .0ad. Virzinia: yo'u might hve tr:tal t ,0my c-minz
to taki -   of if my fiathr  I thiik no t:uar: nv i, a:ixu-e for a
woman' t:-xin,z herself'
Ew    ! r mIn-rui-  wiK a ,-dIl-n j in  i-f r :tr- !!at hi was
treain.: -a idan-.etr u- gr inL  Iharrv. a mn - . -I xe 'i- kni-ht.
ready t -i 1i life an li1111  in the %4 rviq- f w  :tlin i. Wwavs
steppiIt: :l rwarI to ,ave the  ld an-I unatt rarti.- a, w ii is the
voun':     %- .-yIv. fr-on pain. ianger, or i:- 'v1  .'--. -  !ll. this
same In #   b.i  sV--  v 11 l-fv--h1i n l  -i-n,  ,-  . n' s 
educa   . reti .  1a  p -p-iti a. iMusi. neell-w..k. i' I I -u-&amp;-
keepila I - her 4'~upatan-, hirne her ki:! :n : v ' 'he
should r   i I : I  . h I an- I w  - ipp'd. Iut .'ar-!  I  vy  mant f-m  all
ont  '  .wvid I- :*  'K .- -4t in  the  w  -r! I u f t.
Edw  71ar I :. w- I It  my'  in-- window. and thr  w  i,   arm- , ver his
.,houl l r -I 11i. !- er i f .rzivi mrp.: it is a t-, stirical tirngue
ot mi' .  A art -'  ..r a p-t  w  'i!I han ' -h n  a  to -nitIt
as I-.i rt: n fI w. -uI in-, tr  p j"w-r. M'  ft a  .i-.,rn andl self-
pe"!I -kin: :m -r' rlh in -v r lik' an ohld Imma -ensttr. and
Virginti i. m.---'t anI i' -u'hA-. utt.-rintg her rebuke in ii tat h rmfoni-
ous. suler tine of hers, that goes right to the heart and brain."

SANDias.

"Confound it, I dare say it would make a very fine scene : but, in
my opinion. the fewer scenes women make the better."
Edward silently turned his brother round, so that he could se
Virginia, who bad bowed her face upon the table, and then he left
the room. Harry stood for a moment irresolute, then went to her,
and trie- to drag away one of the hands that covered her face: but
it would not come, with any force he dared use. Azain he was
obliged to take the slender fingers, and raise them gently. one I-v one,
before they yielded to his strong grasp : and when. at Iast. the little
hand was hell a prisoner within his. his victory, like many a similar
one, from the days of Cleopatra downward, pr ved-.I hi- -teat. for
there was a tear upon it. and, at the sight. that Ii. athiletie Rebel
colonel tcanie weak as a child. Forgtting that he was thi- . ,fended
party. he .ank on his knees by Virginia's side, and ibi t- eg for
forgiveiiv
"Dear 1,r:m'iia, I am a brutc ti treat you so. - a jealec- u'reason-
able brute. I ffor'rive me. I be1lievr- I want to keep vi  ked up
in a hox. lik- that ..lI zcrenie in the Arabian Niht-. an.onl b : y..u out
to talk an ' -in: to me. It made me s mail. t, think of th- -ftlows
darinmr to e-n- here, in my absen e, threat-r mY father, f-.i-t their
eyes on vsour I-auty. ard enjoy the luxury s-4 heinZ -ntreatedy I Vyou.
Confouni.'- i. I wish I had yieledl'l to my fr.4t impulse. aini kicked
them out  thii h use. There. wh at an awkward. ilum;y creature I
am    I only Ti-Vit t lexcus- myself. and iowI I have ma le vio weep
again   Unoiivir yiur face. dearest: say viu forgive n!-- I ,-f4r' I go."
Dear IIbirrv., said Virginia, without raising her hedI. - I have
nothing: ti f-rtive. I know I shall nievs-r make you happy. You
love me. but I am not the kind of a woman vou admire in-t. I try
to be, but - h-ut I constantly displease you as - as I did t,-ni':ht."
Confiund it. but you are. Virginia. Pin't say that a:ain. - don't
say that again, pleae. it hurts me s-s. Yiu kmn-w you are t!- kind of
a woman. an I th .nly woman. I ever Iviid. Y41u alwav ; ve no the
higge t It   f 1 ,v-ur zinr-ake. lit n'-     r 1k y. r I 11-- saved
your c-i-v tr me. mal- ru" kit , t Tn- , It -f sir  . r  when
you e''11,  '  ive  me fri-mr punishment h Iredl it wth  . And
when I      -  1  Ws-t Pi'int. I was sughlt a w; 11 p. iti 1 1 --t had
yOu toI .- rTs. :dri rako me stu-lv. I h   hb           tthe
mischi-f. And. .  inia. though I am s b a ~i         v. and
could 't t t k - im#ent and real p ietry . Ehr-3t aIltIt  .dies
if my life dip n i-1 on it. still. I have an h ' -i    i : and
ever siVe ' t pruadTIied me thait th- S-wth w tz ri  Ithat I
must   -ni verythtin: in her diefin-o I bv  --  sutiful
figure 14- trin: ur iila: anl - -nt nI it. al-W
but th'  tirt i  h  -- I  t. 1 '11l- sts-eth    t  t  I. and
of yii. iarlint'
Viritia raiii-l h-r head. and 4 Lh- I               takes
me very htppv. t ha'e sit-h a pla-- in V   re-)
Beside. I h1 its  r hirvior w'men                       t you
must let m- w -rk art' i tT-r in som 'e w yiV f  t'n.l  e 'tt a
kiss ur--n hti t' r.-head.1 Iappen whir :ny r- e  lorn  ed will
defend th, r :1. Good night." Ilarry r, ss'. a1'd g- 'I night. and
went st it zi : -
14

-1


106               8~~TA!V.DtgffTA*IS.                                                                               0

"Socb&amp;ThpmanijRsound your a.
Form y~r serried tasks of war,
Fall inminwitState of Mar"0,
And your704a ring fihisdraw'

Edward Talbot. meanwhile, had passed Icy with an effort his-:fa their's
door, and gone tee his Own chamber, where, as he slowly undressewd,
his toh-,e ramubled oil. s4 muewhat in this style-
1.eAr #eels! hithvr, it is hard ut t O IO tO hiT., but W-- has had ex-
c iterwi iti , ite f, v r 'a t_us ih t :I etsidt --s.he imtiht lbe wveflt!'eI abo ut
pow'r    ;De'-re Iart'v. Why can I nist respejm.ct l1al's little weak-
ns..KINi   Artour hiiust' had nespt a neeller h ait i'r a insoet
Ut~l4'te'"e-'jie' ~'kniiiu~' eller.I  jp.rir t4) hin  VI ii 'sswhat
a re'  lr.ein  whitl e 4" ij si--r.' I  with  Vrit'1'h.-r1' hKOh  '  Is.
Xirnti  i~riit  i ~  ...4 1% #~s'l A 1,rry i  a   .-Why,
they  : otl 1wle' #.nitd 'fe1ol  e  r~,  r iiithe  ,e  e.we' ha.I  i t.  Vir-
911113   i11lue-kce Its jev'vil  -%#,'r mitle',Ml li ar-    thItthfe
10s*1401101. 'oman   Wv iA,'t   I wtoiier what          W -iill imake'
eel 111 .11w  Hal Iv 'il I .iimilsl'r at theidea ee.i 4f A WV. .:-%yetIt  cl
tra! i- lat 'Virzril -with "-ass'. read essthe liint, rl:,ani itai-k
metapIi ie i lit: wiats a ejut'a . to wesr~ip : An1I
"-A creature not ttssfi'rigrht or gy~ol
For !-~UAfl rianare's .'mu food.'
A C.mrl  efl sntee r.'ael 'i.11  ~- vWith. - ofe NN, i.  . - k vit h
of it, 1 e- zr p;e z'i~nly v oit,tre- all OIe'arl-. wv  i! r truo anelI
with me- e's'     i   upi rio  ilav. Goud bless.oltl:Mni,
Ad E     rIfel.'ep

CHAPTER XXVI.

dav~  s'  te' ~iU ci  it~l . 1 I th'' lr''ilr'I i pi 1e lanntisen
call n  r  e  e -i e  le'ci  ae IXl   Cl-duii oer' wwen  eur: v zns rri vell
in  B         Ii        1,  n e i  Owth'"t' ner It :
unu~                     I k'ee": t'te t  rk  .  rsue  ~.a~O
t '   '- Veet    v ,  rt s-s 5  : .thh ii, il. ek ,l   a
the f  j.k
Sues'    tthee lute-hor., n  fli5te -le walk. a n:&amp;,iis-h-c had
tzh'    ee  e:r   ith  the  b t 4eefl'It's .  4 ta 4l-s It,  the
C4  c I) -IIt  t,  -   pj.  aol  :~ : Paul has-ty  -Iir''i  It..  ive  hi'
lug~~e  it i- t11h1!-z e-r. [e' pratt; edt an-i~in  lhe honest
olel eI -T, ::  a  t1-- -  'L~ etreni

le soon learned from them of the bombardment of Site     its
gallant defence. and fal. Rough voices told the story, interNup~I
hy faths and vo)ws of vengeance : but the description was smrong and
ife-like. Horace saw, as he listened, the little band, divided into
thrs.!v ri-li.'f- each standing by turns at the guns : when their car-
tridxi..,4 gazve out. rakiruv, cart ridget-bags  U  ftei hrs orkinig
F) 1)it ou11 th 4 fire which hvd cititrht iin the barracks,: reioingz the
Isarris t of gurio4.owsler from the Piw.Ier niazine alreadlvy eated with
tht- ajproatihiiig lamces, anithrewititt- theo-cverhorsx:whn h
iag-ft tY fwas cat in two, nailing lths*  Lv-.rti) the rumpart-; : arid still
hiieililine.: tout. while meni anti uis'e-rs we're' eefl liged to)lie' flat upon their
facet.s M t he' casernats. and jomrv'..s wt t  l1oths t4  hi  ~etst
eeaPe' %ud'lffaticvn, until there wsas "n-t a Catrid:" bC Lft toire o
,znnp4 swelter tsso make one.
Ahsa.rt t-to1cr thain our hertt .'z Wediltihave 1,-LWed Wi'0it snthnsiasm
at such a t~ide'I  lte'reafter. whreve  ur ti agY. shall Ie"- unfurled t4)
the lr'e theree shall the nanit' of JArilv-bri tm-n behon-ersl an 3UI iest.
.; (tt41I IL Trlafions gave Ma         ll  an awi~nt #A' Lincin's
(all I er ' ~rteranid holw preerijetly it hall b~feUs  'II-th
p1111114- ft'M t"'achtue'tt 'm   "   ,f. e."  1the S-;ixth. h-t1 received
his ei' or, Ii ' at  te#  I 1' wk  4w,  M. ensl.tv  e  ,iin. I .I  r:iviz no~ti
easte rl v  t srrn. anI had riideri all iis1t thr uIzih the scarti-rc1 ttpvwn
and  sil~s   iui-ttering rhis rIII.'!I By  14IN1H 411s 11fTS.' I.   eVr  on
pans- W3..; 1in BStem with full ranik-. a'.I if tL'h.jei'  t  unse
by the State hai ben rvais. they yrizht have -tarivii at 4-ie'e.
The- W nP-nl. tewo. ha341riotIceeni li-.TiLv vha lam I-together
andi cut ont gir1e-ntU.4 t r thp      I~li  4wh-n-'   .Al1imrble
fingeurs hu sIwe rkesI lay an'1 i-i ia ipttoprs'jeorte -the ut'e-   r  'lethiang
for the 'vesluite'e-rs. who were first read tiet art- wer tu. ir c' euatrv,'S
caIlW. I rh i0 afit'rii cln tii,. Sixth_. !,ll -s't out fir W~i~t
H  trase   a tact, ,is en was * Siwn  ermv,  fit, e   t l at  a''to ehi-s
sister's lit e  f. - und that sh#1 was at fit- I ia _k-  1,)11 e. w, irking
for theb   elc' .ani would in et r- rn umii-tA l i   nai   o
lettes. - ..%eaks'i_,Aevery slrawer aulel1 k in the hj.4ting~n
onle frs 111Ellak, - ttok some rfrh,, ,t114pake  i.' e Iuiform
and an~   wrote Anna a short niete. altl ii te'lor F in iiihail31.
elr,'rnr~' tpina(e'.p  y sje' its  hAt W"UM'ii' ikohim in.
He f-Ii'i that captain Msorri:--.i i IIfrenM CarIt,', X% a- ICOrn-
mal l'4 lt,-' Low-il Gtiarlis, aaT11 -kt*(i tee o   urn. But _Morri- -.was
ne, t te   a     It - en* r  A4'!  .11-Il'  hmA xt's  all 11 ir  :'eand  he
hail n -r v t t rirneIe.i  Iuier.ilh  l    Wif  wIs' v1-
preuttur  s et-T~f4-tit. Ire eiorht en irtIv  a  n  es:'' : A S
the zut-ien -itt41et' departuir' eolre'w 1a.lw4 ttl  nIcwiin
Militair\ Y.-lt-  wcr itofl w.!iith ri'vlvr.Itisr'aki ee'''1wh
Ransfwee. r2'nk*rosl IarItd i . 1Zl ~a:. I V. Ail
sw ~  the'It rs".e.lforwvard 1tee ..Wofe'ak a !  't w' I
ifir v, - ' w  At.'  i"is all thi--. with i.  :1 ,71%,r i lfl ,v-  Zpvc~'t(rjl

4

I

106

107

BTA4TDtM*


STANDIsH.

S

106

" Never mind, my boy ; a soldier relies more on his arms, than his
legs." The lad laughed, but his face clouded over again, as he said,
But I 'vre got such a first-rate pair of cowhides to hum. Tht old
woman take-- care on 'em. and only lets me wear 'em Sundavs and
sparking nights.''
"And why did you not put them     on for this occasion?  said
Horace. -TLi is more- than sparking: this is conflagratin time "
"So it is ,ir. But when the order cum to jine the Cmpany. I
was a p!":.in' in the three-acre lot. Why. it 's the_ sn  illmy
grandfv'n.-r. Ike Warren. was pl ughin' in when the Brit1i)h ired on
the M,,.ehu'etts   -yvs at Lvxinrton. WAl. h- ii I n't .:. um for
clothes and sich like. arnd I ld in't ne'ith'r. The old we  ;
the unif ,r i after min. but ,he kIpt th. cowhil's, 'eau  -  . a
store "w ,tm. and was afrai the marchin*' would spilb o:n.''
Stan li-h l'dkel rapidy ailvway.  ie s..oon roturno'dL larirn a pair
of leatih- -  . which nu-t ha 'equallel. if th'v id. r t 1 .l the
Acton c   hildes. and vi.: Ik  was tranf rniol ints th.. L piest
y in hi '-    r nY. A few nments bo 'ro' the trr e  i- ft Fmneuil
Hll, Caj ,in  rris canw in. Iis face Was pale. li-  :e r agi-
tated.
"My frion,."' h             iail. a'ldressinr his Comrany. --I .  t gn
with vu : myv wife. " - hi- vi-'  which he- had vailly tri. i  t.-ady
broke. an I h- turned Iwar lii, head.
But ho1 hal tolId th.- S .1 rt ry nore eloquo at!v I 17: rv words
could have ione :all knew ij y  Iriz wit#' was at the pa o -I loath.
Recoverinz hmel.lis eve  ull n llrairt.
'W Wit it  Standi-b. t  von horr  Why. vo'z are the . cof all
others :   1y   will yo nt tak" Captain Stan lish ii my ;Lme a
tried and experience ' I solli'r. i te'ad of a militi i eitaiif This~
man was on1t- of that A: -rious th sain1Atd who [an 1'le  in Sie-ily- last
summer. in th-' fce oft a -iuadr n of rine hun ro I :- -. anl an
army ot t'  huntreol anrl tw.'ity thliou-sand mo-n. who 4, -r-l on
the tied i of \l sio al V lturi  If' wears  -r r i     woud.
if  he- w. t t     no  ol--t  - a  m.-l! d t t   by--'l  wn-V ; o!
hand.       -Ir  for hi - 'r"ry.  Sy. -h al h~ I r         ?
Crie         y   !'' r.:-:1   hr-zh t -- h Cmjon ty.e's
frank.iv umnnr            :     y- mazli' of Garib  bade
him wi          i      .r I c I m  in- aver r ha         ros
in privc         aptaX M rr. h    assum1l th4- .         4the
Low,-1 l tjjr1_
'wif  l ln  b'earin:th-  tirht w      ho
ansW!rI-           rv , -    Without a m mnt'- -     New
York .         h.- I   to  tii-- Phil  lo-!pAhia  ailiw r  o  n(ot
unluri .--ni '         . b- -wo . 'r  Chor aftor 04 -  u  --* ml(ed
them.           -- i a -' : h . Ikerchi'f-- w-re w o . l.har-ty
voi*-- ic t      n    1 a-   E I a:v l imtther-  ho~dup  t',, chibilre'n
t) se'e  ~            --      1- 't who wro'r' o  i::  e-fend
the- NI                                  1 t q opi:  v to borekfst in Pb  !lphkia
where. 'K'r.t-w -o 'n 1      1 'h 'n with cak-- aini pi  rvxii
to tak- .r-    . an! b,- o -t   j i'n th-treet- thir -uh vI  b theyv
pa-   '- i.Y   -i   - --  r -I  it' it. with the - tT.-. and- ro  theyv
had i:m- f IIr d-t ' io -wn tro' k fst. an d- 1foto'o I tihe m ipe 'n t he
soldiers. th. y p ishedl a t ,Baltimnor-e, making~ the air r'o un.I with

BrANDIsm.

100

Yankee Doodle and the StarSpangled Banner. At the Pre=&amp;mt
Street Station, in Baltimore, horses were attached to the cars, to take
them to the Washington Station : but it soon became evident that
some hos-tilp demonstration was intended. A crowd began to collect
about thi' ears, hooting and yelling frightfully. Orders were imme-
diately  ive'n to the troops to remain silent, and return no answer to
the thr'at.-' and insults that were heaped upon them. This forbear-
ance. however, seemed only to excite the mob; their language
becaimo- n-ore insulting, and seizing stores and brickbat- they threw
them a: the e4rs, wounding several of the soldiers. The first nine
cars. hi w'vo'r. succeeded in reaching the Camden Street 'ntati.'n. and
set 4off arcite" for Washington, leaving g about one hunori oe-n, now
cut i    on their companions, an-  urr unled by an infuriated mob
of m     h  tiIre-Is. Horace was in tho- last car. an i h-'- aw that to
raa     -;in tai position, cramped up. with out the meansI of olf-d'fence.
while. the 0-ar was broken in pies iver their h'ai,-. wa- a mere
waste oif lif. Assuming, therefore. th'  ommanI of thi, devoted
little a''. eensisting of some f hi own men, and soino frn other
compaio-'. he male the!., alight. Itirm  a solid square. and; a vance
with fix' Ihava.iyonets in doubo-quic k te.o'-  Toh- Mayor 'of Biltimore,
who h I ol -en vainly endeavomnn  t .  r-e the mniotb. now placed
himsl-: ov Irace 's side at the h.a  t ith [platoon. th i i- iving the
no)blest pro.-f of hi- courage and i-s pariotism. Stones. britbats.
handful d-irt. were tflung ftr 'iall 41-s up' on thomi : th yel o f the
Plug I.:lics," and the curses of th' '- Babies." were mIu Ih-d with
the crie"-s '4f their leaders, a small numrrbler of senession  nlemen,
who strove to increase the storm  they had raised,-' P own with
John Brown -s followers '    - The-se are th' Massachus'tts men,
that sent J ohn Brown to murder your wives and children !"
-- Revenvie yourselves !not on the we-ak aowl bfncel-w.- as they
meant to 01. but on the cowards who plotteol this wronl -
Stani:,hi usel every effort to prev'nt the trp from hiring upon
the mohb, btut occasionally a man exaspe-rat-o  by th' fall of his
comrade . imined his musket at the assailant. Our frP-n.1 Ike walked
resolut, iy behind Horace. giving him an oocc4sional assuranCe of his
obedient- to orders.
N-'-r mindme, sir, I'ra. as quiet as a racoo-n takin' a nap!
All rizht. Captain : but they 're mAkin' a regular ha-h t us. ant
they! . i only hope our buttons  -ur-e that brick. it came too
devili h ---' ) will choke 'em whe'n they've minced us no sausin-
gers.
A-  1k :i;ished this benevolent wi.h. a pavin'-toone f! I him to
tho '-ar-'  Horace sw it. turned.  rAi'd him and plated tn in the
arms o-f two of his companions in nthe centre oof their  ' A.Ire. So
they struzeled on, bearing some Of their wounded in  I- ir arms,
while ther were kindly received i:to the houses o:      Union
people :e'y passed on their way. The air was thick with d t. sticks,
and stoIe-'. Standish several time- f.-elt a bri'kiat whiz  o- to his
ear. At length they reached the 4'amnio'n Street Statin. As they
were setting ouit, poor Ike strugrle'-I up itnt'o a sitting pcos-ture, ad
staring round with #assy eyes, seemed to ti-y to awaken to the sen
'about him. A grim smile parted his lips ; he waved his h and, and
cried, " All hail to the stars and stripes: " and then fell back lieeI.

I

A,
lit


110

sANXImSH.

"Brave fellow," said Horace, "Let us imitate his example : give
one cheer for our flag. and show the mob what stuff we Massachu-
eetts bovs are made of'   Then arose a parting cheer, steady and
hearty as on a Fourth of July parade. from the remnant of that little
band, as they got into the cars : it mingled with the curses and
enraged cries of the mob, who were obliged to fall back baffled,
while their intended victims were borne swiftly on to Washington.
CHAPTER XXVII.
A YEw days after the receipt of IIerare I letter at Lakew-el, Mr.
Stone was returnir fnrum a ln v01:" i-it he hadl lee miirakiigr at Mr.
Campell's, asking Miinnie's advice as tI the 1e-t way ' I dA1ealin,
with s4ome of his parishion re whose rough exterior% ; e hi  ' t
as good an idea of the chart''r hidenhi within, as tie prickly burr
of a chestwnut of the fruit it c'nrxCVal, when he was tarth d  ty a
voice behind him.   I e lrg -
" ave nwe e  savo rmie'
With a litf tiutterin.r abeit his heart. f r the voie' was Soft atel
implorinoz. Mr. Stiie turni''d. and! saw  Miss Rosalit.. llcr dIress
was (of gray cahme're trimmed with purple : a little c-litak of the
same material 1w rderedel with pirple. wa thrtpwn arin! h-r. arid a
Durple pluin" in her hat. 'Ire'ping  r 'of e sieS. miAl$ cA-$ tily
with her curls. Mis R*alie wave hirm nie minute's psI' to e
how pretty she locked!. with a 'jelicate- tuIuph uii her ebo, k4. her
eves raise'! be.echinlv t1 hi her haid's -what 'exi'.itt. deli-
cately gleved handithey ywer    -- 'laeId ti ,ether ; tha da Lyire,
one of them upon his arm. li*criei aain.   ''
le!p ne ever thi  wall :t the w411. Oih !quick. qjUk -k
Mr. St ,e quijethly d1id as h  '.  dire,tedi. and tur.il t4 the lady
for an explanrati4)n. Sh .  ypo.in, tedl to farmer Gibs's eeldl e '-. whieh.
having griwn weary of her     e'ture, was trotting   he- te b.e
"kOh '' said Mr St1ne. n I: h    rxiletd'. bnt not sat ir i y. It
was a     . ti'.  mpa-.nat''  n'  as if he thuhLrt   w m1uch
sufferinc.-  timid a ltti  rtre wiuld meet with. in tr'adi- the'
rough  tI'hwiv aof life
yei ied't tni  b-il  Wihise-ne is  rv crss. I assur- vu --
Ineled: I was f..rmia . "  j i;t.neNt frorn appearances alone.
White-ni'   loo' I eks vry gel'. tor mire  I am ifraidi viu have run
from aimraginar'y dlaner int a re-l ene : this path through the
wood is rentrh. and there i~ a little trook toe be crossed several
times. Let mec see your feet :are your shoes thick ?"'
Miss R- ~alie held up~ her skirts daintily : and now it was her
turn to smril"' at Mr. Steal'  undlisg ised though silent admiration
of those beautiful little feet inr their balmoral caing.
"You -ee my boots are very thick, and you will help me home

I

i
1

STADkLa.                       ill
this way, and not mind the trouble I give you, won't you  I would
not go into the road again with that horrid cow, for the whole world."
" Not even with me to take care of you ? "
No! no! not even with you. I 've had such a fright it would
kill me!"
toVery well, then, I must do my best in guarding you here from
stones.and1 briars, and wet feet. Sme day you may feel greater
confidencer in Inc."
" Pray don't speak so, Mr. Stone : I shall feel as if you had really
taken offence at my folly. The first moment I saw youf. 1 elt that
you were a man that one could entirely trust."  In a confidential tone.
"Now, vterVbody here is infatuated about Mr. Talbot : but I don't
like satirical people : a satirical clergyman, especially."
The whlde neighb'rhood hare reason to be grateful tts Mr.
Talbot :lhe never spared himself when his exertioins could ibe of use
to others. au-l his satire was only a veil for his teidernejss and
sympathy. '
To" a thick a veil, in my opinion !4 "1 txaiwfred Rttsalie. pertly
6 So thick that I never c#Ould see the tendernes.s or the sympathyhy
through it. Now don't repeat what I say to Minnie ('amipibell ; she
woul stont mne to death for it. Mr. Talkot i: a demi-god in her
eyes -
Mr. Sto e'S color changed.   Miss Rosalie perceived it, and
ran on.
By-the-by. speaking of Minnie Campbell, what a lovely creature
the is
 Most lively!  So pretty and good. She has helped me in the
kindest way : indeed, 1 do not know what I shou'l1h .ve done with-
out ,her assistance. Can yoau tell, me- there is a r -port that-
that ,i that, in short, Miss Campbell and Mr. Talbot ar engaged "
'X 'ss Rossali. blushed now, but sle answered! ipr m:'y. " A
most abesraz4 report; there is no truth in it. Mr. Talbot is old
enough t- bte Minnie's father."
" larlv' "
Miss Ro;aie ilnterruptedI him.  " She was a little child when Mr.
Talbot first can e htre: he taught her. aid made a pet of her. but
he never thu    of marrying her. ie has been egaige. fr many
years tee a \rirra lady. a cousin of his: he may be imarricd to her
by this time. tNr aught I kow.
-Ahx ' saki l Mr. St'ne, irn a re'li#v*ed t ne : a: I thi-re seemed'i
to him t come a change over earth and!  k   II" I-ke I up. and
there wer- .the light, feathery eeudls. frmig aidt r4ilrm1in" them-
selves into a thousand fantastic figures. en a grind  f exquisite
blue: he leceked1 around. - the leaf-lids were we ilin. and the
tender grass had the freshness of eary.v pring : at bi- t ;  the little
brook was gus..hing in the fulness ojf uinfetteredl Py. Ilad Mr.
Stone been either a poet or a philosopher. he w -ri have que*-
tioned himself why his eyes so suddenly openedd toe these beauties :
but. as it was. he only said -
" It is a very pleasant afternoon, Miss Rosalie."'


12TA I M

CHAPTER XXVIII

EDWARD was roused from the profound slumber in which he had
passed the night, by Phil's voice at the door.
" Here is ei warm water. Massa Edward: ole Massa. he be down
sta'rs axing foer you."  Edwar idressd4 rapidly. and hete'ned into
the breakfa.st-rtoom. where he fund hiz father walking up an.I down
the roem,. impatiently expecting him.
My    n. my onlV sn :" eClaimel the oll 'entleman. e!asping
his hand.  viou are true to h  old flag: I have o 1e child whom I
need not di'-wn.''
l'athlr. dl n t - hiarl upon poor II rry. Yii alw ys said
he was lik" my meh,-r.-tho same warm. l ving hrt. and impul-
sive nature. Iis feelings   ern him : i is not a e ! . reasoning
creature, like Vu and1 me.'
If is feeling s govera him, where is hi!; feeling for the country
that educated him   Seli nursed a serp.-it in her b)r',ast. ready to
turn ani isting h. r. - a tra:: r. watAhing an opportunity to strike a
blow at her hart."
"i know this is all true. father. from the# poirt of view" from which
we lck up'n our Govcrnrme.j, acknowleed by Stephens himself,
not a year since. to be the mildest and most, beneficent known in
the hit'oryt of the' world: but think how differently the case has
been praenrt-I to Iarry.  -ubtle loric has been used to prove to
him that Virginia reserved a right to secede: his passions have
been excite' I by the speeches of New England fanatics, who fancy
they serve' Ge iby slandering their fellow-men. He has bevn told
that the (' n!;titution was intended for a band of frienly States.
and that the bitter languacre of the North. acting upon- the passions
of the Suth. has kinled up a spirit which makes a 1-rg;er union
unendurable. And. more than all, to a greeroui heart like Hal's,
the South is the. weakes-t side : how irresistible the temptation to
throw his swttr1 into th' li btei-!t scale.
YOu are inze'ronlisn in'tinn  argrurnmnt;in the defence of a bad
cause. :Sh ull v-u ever b-a' the pulpit, y)u may make your fortune
at the jlr"
-- 1  mtak' me, dlear father" saidl Edward, laughing. "My
eloque'mee' is altge'tha r prof eeal, a little domestic preach-
ing. If I e'tnniet persuade y. oWs family to practise theC hristian
lessons oe love and charity. I am afraid I shall hardly succeed
with the w rl I at larei-
"There. Edlwar 1. let us tAk no more about it. You are a noble
fellow. I knew you we nld defend your brother. and for that reason
I have bec: ile to gir.. xpression to the grief and shame that are
eating into  my heart. M Iv yvou never know what it is to be the
father cf a traitor! Hlerte comes Virgnia. After breakfast I must
see you in the library."
The result of Edward's interview with his father was. that he de-
termined, on the afternoon of that same day, to set out for Wash-

ington. Jim was dispatched again to the Confederate camp, to
inform Colonel Talbot of his brother's departure, and the Colonel
soon appeared with Jim behind him, riding a handsome black
horse.
--1:4o YoU are offat once! said Harry.
"Yes," replied Edward: and the two brothers walked the piaa
in silence. At last Harry spoke.
I Elward. the horse Jim rode up from camp is for you. I trained
him on purpose. He comes of the stock of old Henry: has great
speed andl bottom: can walk nearly six miles an hour. I have
name him Shvlock. for he shies at everything at first starting ; but
he soonf tinids out if there is business before him, gives up his non-
sense. and goes straight at it. le has been at the camp, but never
in what vou call the Rebel service. You won't refuse him '" and
Harry Ioelkel with sad wistfulzess into his brother's face.
- refuse him. Hal ' I shall value him. as yur gift, above all my
earthly p         'You must not think these political differences
have changed my heart- towards you. Harry. I tried very hard to
keep you where I believed it was your duty to remain. But you
thought differently. and nwDw we must each work and suffer for the
cause we have chosen, but love and trust each other through all; "
and, with tone warm embrace the brothers parted. Little did either
imagine what their next meeting would be!

CHAPTER XXIX.

Wars Edward reached Willarl's. he wrte ait-a note to General Scott,
asking a private interview at his earliest c :Ivtiefee. and stating
that he haa some important cttuinunicatioens to make to him.  The
answer soein came: a few friendly lines from the General-in-chief,
and an invitation to dine with him that day. Edward was very cor-
dially received by General Scott, who was an old friend of his ath-
er's, anti hai often been a guest at Alston Manor.  ing an expres-
sion of weariness on the noble oldl man's face. he had the good taste
and feeling tee postpone all allusion to painful topics until the Gen-
eral had refreshed himself with his dinner.  The cooking and the
wine were excellent, and, the.conversation turninz upon the Mexican
war, Gereral Scott told some amusing ane4. let  'f his military life
and adventures. It seemed to be a great relief to him to de41ngage
his thoughts for a time from the heavy responsibilities weighing upon
Whe- the servants had withdrawn. Edward laid before the Lieu-
tenant-General. his father's conjectures. concerning the plans ef the
Rebels. giving. as clearly and as briefly as pos.ile, the information
and facts upon which he founded them.  The General listened with
great attention. This was information which could be relied upon,
is

p

I!

(= ii

112 -0

113

grANDIsm.


STANDS.

coning from a man of great sagacity and exactness, living in the
very midst of the enemy.
Their conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Seward,
Secretary of State. He caine to consult with General scott; the
scout whom he had despatcheld to Annapolis with forders f'or Gov-
ernor Hicks, to send forwarl the Massachusetts-and NeW York
troops by the Annapolis Railr'.ad. had not vet returned. and he feared
he had been captured by the Maryland secesionists. who, he un-
derstood, were guarding the road.  Something must be done. It
was now Tuesday afternoon. and. since Sunday morning at eleven
o'clock, no telegraphic message ai bad teen received from the North,
-no direct communication hadL been held between the Capital and
that people who were .so earnestly moving? to its r.s-cue.  Edward.
seeing how important it was that intercourse should. tv established
between Annapolis and Washington without ddlay. th-t the railroad
should lo.e seiz(d, and troops seit forward for the defence of Wash-
ingtonA, tffered hi, services to Mr. Seward.
Gen-ral Scott at tirst tried to dissuade'him: the ri:.k S#emed so
great that he did not think it nht to vxpo te a life aS valuable as
Edward's, when some other me.-rsengr might .- found to do the
work. But. upon further discusiin, it wa'I Ws  evi-o t that a person
of intelli:nne and judmincit, was required at this crisi, - since Mr.
Seward was ilrnorarit of the stat#- .f thin:- at Annap lis. -one who
would Ioiroughly info'rn hin  lf f the sitnati'on. and cokould be
trustee to make the be st arrangrmnents possible for the safety of the
Capital. that he withdrew hi% positiono. The kiwd-hearted  general
then pressed upon Edward a pair of his pistols andi a revlver: but
he laughirlv declined, saving that even Bish 'p I.Pk's exanple had
failed to convince him that tirearums were the .suitall w-ape'ns of his
office. ard that he shoild relv fir his safety. .intir#lv upn iithe swift--
ness an einiur.ance of his h.rse. It was ar-re1 that he should
set out that evening at eight o'clock. on his peril us enterprise, and
he took an affectionate leave of his h..-t. anl re-turn.-d to Willard's,
to write letters to be sent to Minnie and his father, in case he should
fall.
The evening was rioudy.  Eiward took the stare route to A anapo-
lis, which was mnuch more direct than the railr''ad. Shvlek. having
establishedI hi right to hi! namUe. by shaving at every loving 'object
as be prai'ov I t hr. ugh the s4rl of Washington. iot' sowilncr found
himself up r1 a country road. with n' one to admire him. than he as-
sumed. 4f hi - 'wn1 accord. a handoI-Z:dlo.p, ait jpushed rail forward.
A few mile fr-n Washinezton E-lward le;ran to owe guierillas in groups
of three or f-'ur. riding forward. or biv.'uackingz alom:' the roadside.
By making .d tour; frim the main route into unfrequ'-nted paths. and
then finding his way back again. he managed to escape them. Once.
however. he carnm suddenly upon a knot of them contealel by some
bushes.
Halt '' cried a rough vijce.
Edward pressed the spur into Shybock's left flank, who sprang to
the other side of the road, and then galloped rapidly past. A bell
came whizzing after him. lie felt his hair stirred as by a sudden
breeze awd the bullet passed through his hait. A second glanced

alone Ila left side. almost t- aching the ear of his horse.  Shylock%
spirit was fw fully roused. and putting out his utmost speed 
soon distanced his pursuers. When the sound of their houses hoo$
had div-4 away, Edward drew Shvlock into a gentle gallop, and looked
around him.
The masses of heavy leaden clouds. that had- shrouded the sky in
pall-like darkness. moved towards the east, and now and then the
ma'n shone forth with pale, uncertain light, obscured by a veil of
misty gray. like a coquettish beauty. sugtg'esting. rather than showing,
her loveliness. The bracing air and exercise, the excitement of dan-
gers passed, and those vet to be encountered before his journey
should he finished, exhilarated his spirits, and quickened all his senses.
The list   14t towing of the cattle in their farmyards, th'- barking of
watch-dos, the creaking 'of barn doors, the rustling of leaves in a
neighb-orintg wood. the mournful muc of the tree-fre-s. and lizards,
the hototing- of the ''wis. and the plaintive note of the whip-poor-will,
all came to him with w- nderful d tinctness. and he found his eye
distinruishing distant 'hj ts with a precision that surprised him.
Nor was his brain Lss active in skin the caus- of thi.  Was it
the peculiar state of t' atmo'pher'. or an nnusual condition of his
nervous system ! ie r#tnemmberfi Th it eher sometimes gave extra
ordinary acutenes t, the sense #f harintz. while it numbed the
nerves of paint. Then hIe woni r' I whether the' e-xatlted sta:e of the
lod mnirtyrs h.d 'dull'- I their physical sensibility in the defiance with
which twey met tortures. at which we shud icr to think. how much
was re--luti'on, how much unconsiousnew of thetr sutierinz's !End
less subjects of interest and inquiry seem t#)opvi t4)his eager
mind : life w-Il not be long each. eternity -ubl alone satisfy
them all. An I throh  all these th''i::its. ran th#- pleasant fancy of
a little fri-nI1. alwvys by his .id to help him.  Wh-re man's reason
failed. her pure spirit woul ,I s-bir. anI lbathe itself in truth : in her
dove-like eyes h-- woull rea-i r-velations his own unassisted intel-
lect coil I never hive ra.che 1.
He wis rukwd from his pleasant reverie ,y the cla--n (of arms; he
pulled in hi, h11r..   with a sudIli ang at Th  thoughPt .'t Minnie's
grief sh uhl he f i.  ee.edby  a thrill of excitement at the danger
before' him  lHe ha.1approac1l. thf -Cv--ri l bri ,rie over the Patuxent,
the oin-st diffcult part of his jIfur y.  a th.- dim distance he coui- die-
tinguish lark tornis. and the glitter of mu4kets. lie hat hpied to find,
the guarl asleep: but the measured tria - of the s-'tiv  was distinctly
audible. as they paceI the hridn. Whait curse sh-oi I he pursue
if he w-nt firwart he must either be shot. -r tak-r prisoner, accord-
inz to th humor of the guards.  Priudn-w was evi-tently the better
part of va!'.r.  lie h-I seen. half a mile bark. a !ittle, path which
might lal t- t a fir I: n- wouli tv it  Thne eI uis had .zain thick-
ened. the mntoo  wais e + mpletel -bscur d. an-i he hoped the dark
color 'if his ho-re.w and his own'dress. ha-I conceal- him from sight.
But a erv If I- Halt I Who go.'s there ! %-sin.ied at this moment
sharp av-l clear through the air. ik only reply was to turn, and
gal lop :iway. lie soon perceived that he was followed.
The ch ie was a close one'- fences and barn-yards, trees, houses.
and stables, flew by him. and still he heard the clattering of hoofs
close behind ! He passed the path he had hoped to have taken, not

I

d
p
4

114

115

STANSHOr.

0


116

WTA -

8TANDISH.

117

wishing to betray his desire to cross the river, and continued on the
main road. Still the same clang. clang. but now closer; his pursuer
seemed gaining upon him, and his own horse was beginning to pant;
the tw-p animals were very equally matched in speed, but Shylock's
surene..- of foot might give him the advantage yet.  Edward looked
about. and saw a lane which led down a steep hiU covered with
stoun's: he took it, urging on Sinylock still faster, who galloped down
the hil. throwing the loose stones on every side, from his agile feet.
A crash,. a curse, a groan from behind. - it was evident horse and
rider h4d come to the ground !  At the bottom 'Cf the descent,
Edward turned to Look : the man had risen. aUl Was leading his
horse up the hill again : the hipimg g-ait of Lth. -howed all danger
from that quarter was over.   ing a small farnibuse oen his right.
dward rode up to it. diswm'unted and kirec'ked.  Through an upeni
window. a nasal-twanged temale vkiie was heard.
Murder . Murder !   help    There 's somcev down stair:-
a-heatin' in the d41OIr. and a-c'nini' up -tair! to cut our thr'at.,. andi you
asleep all the time. Mr. Grub'. Mr. Grubbs. Mr. Grubls .': cant
you wake up."
Rats. rat:'. rat'. - uething but rats." and bui-ls snoeredtl a'ain.
Edward repeated h: kiks vywith nt entie hand. witshitcg tO !hIOw
the sleeping; Grul ts that there was -mthin l b.ow aire no'isv than
rats.
Female voice I -bbingi. '- Oh. Mr. Grui ,.  vN1 W4ou 11olv
please wake up. and save in" from [in: murere ' iVindictively.
Very weil, sir. I '11 lttok out and see for myself. and if the villain
shoots rme. y oubl be hung for it.''
A bead was for a m'en'nt put iut of the window. white night-cap
discernible in the darkne s. Edward addressed the: vaimhed night-
cap.'-
Madam. pray excuse ein for di-turling you. I am nu rlbber. or
midniht assasin. btut a peaceable traveller, a clergyman, who has
lost h  way--
The niizht-cap peU'ep  i arai. and ,i wearer shrieked out. -' Lirt
have Iercy -n u, : a nimstr i. -yit*  fIr sartin : I d    :e hi,
white ieck-ti-.  4h !that #%r A.0mir1 Grubbs's dotr shtul be
closed t a travellim. .N:.ttr .Wait a mreN\nt, ir. andet l 1'I b
down.''
In a v rv few nome'rnt" Mrs.  ruM si ree'nted herself -with light in
hand. ne" hal liut In a ad- 'red  tIlen L kirt anI drab sak. and
replace i he r nci;:ht-capf by a :ray silk haidke rclhci'f. tlemurely tied
under her t chin. Iler freatur"- w-rt rnall ant recar. lut h'r c tr-
less ev". file  cmph1xin. a'd n           4a twan:. etryeid all her
perso d attractiin.m Edward " ' ye". nl he coulnt 4  lt hpe
the uni   miin: plainnien ' f hetr drc', was a ~mpi limet te hist t 'hri-
cal ,cara'cer. acd net her us"ual a r-' Cr1m. ine. sir :I am so
sorry, I to k ytu f'r a muderlrr. a: i al that sort ch't hn:. But
the!e4 , -'arv time  t live i::: th  k - p 're in a dlreadiful state.
I 'dl nevcr have an e'asy" m rnc et. Il 'v- cxpetrienccedi a change of
heart. antd feel myself rady u- Mr   u       1 A. e 's difSerent. Mr.
Grubbs. if yen '11 believe in". ha, : .o r aven got teoi the anxious-seats,
and it shot through myv mind. as 1 dlressed myself, that you might be
the man Ileaven appointed to save him. But come in, and take some

r

cold veal: we killed Dolly's calf a-Monday, 'cause we were short
o'milk. Come in, and then you can rat somethmn, and have prayers."
"Thank you for your hospitality. but I have pressing business a
Annapolis. and have lost my way. Will you let one of your servaats
show me the Ford .
-Oh! sir, I 'm so sorry: Jim's the only boy we 've got, and he 's
gone down to Paw's to bh 'rrow his 4xen. Could n't you come in,
and siendl the night, and- in the tn rnin', after we 've had prayers,
Jim *11 he home."
Th ink y,'u. I cannot stay : it i a e  of life and death.
Ah'yes. I uniderstaiI :   me eathhed. Pra.:. sir. d-o you
bselitv" in~ dei.tthll rpe4 ntane(  ' Xh.-n yuI come back ji t step
in, and t ir e u your views: ani it' thr 'ith-r triom Mr. Blak''-  you
e    -an arue t I' pint with him. there 's nothi mnitre edifyI  aI Mr.
Grubbs will l awake. ani he ne d   y pray r' awful Iiad. The F 'rd's
a  aCruy hard eplae teo tiid. but there s the bridge. as plainas a
pike-aff.
A ilack face which had appeared lehinl Mr-. 4G;rubbos. ad listened
attetiv ev Vto th, ',onversatikn. n  itme mi it.
-- What 's to hinter me  rem . iun1iuS. an sh owill' tie i entleman
de Ftrd  ' poet he kn''w4 det way he w tis t po le'tte'r a&amp; we do.
Yeu c'an   t dte r'l, an'   tie t'ti' fr brea :ii  'ant munch.
sartin. I 'Il take th sp rin  ehmk   t)' market : they 'I m1ak1
splendid briler, .an' I T nen lrin- ih- n v::''r back f r t  pra#rSt
Ssonr as y  - want him. aid  er. ah  ma1a 'I   e r'at for
him. I 'spet."
Oh. 4 hloe. how vou scaredl me. I'd let y.  wL. nly Mr.
Irutb. he 'll swear awful : he thmks I set t'o much on  ministers
Massa'Il never know. 'I-'s yu tell him. that 's  artin. I 've
go fnt' ti market at the u  i time. an' I !-#ets the nan,:t,'r 1n the
wv hme'.    You km'w mnl      nvr           :      ::  i n:i1.ter any-
th- kr
XX h this kneock- w  e   'nf'eI' ~ea:redl. l-aving Mrs.
Grumll.' in a s-!a #         :               r ,a           p
ardy.  - a tmiistr -                               -
furious ' N tithe" 'f th' vi                        I. and I  tain
relief she turn' d her mi'1 o'  'u    b ' ~ vr-m ~tt        aspiW~
endleave rineg~''~er~~I I1 it, ! 'he io h o        ' ni ht
a    etm1 th    1 neon ai
when  Chli#-  aprop are 'i  n ,t 1a' r7!1
b a'ket  otf  ezo  'n  oe  sie  a n                    -  ther
Elwardiland hi  uid" pr'ct.d    ' .l
h h-a p',ike.adto
h    i' t " , I.t  ic  teared  Treotra'TVaIi'u       r -111to
trabl  Ic.  buit  she'I 11  ct  y  i  .a f' t 1 1  ~ -w ' rid e   I e brit
why yo'u d' 1. 't y' ur w       uva' il nrt:.11iig.I      i
is~ toeo h't t'c hid , mie iif- u                           r
Edward tlau:   .     tt~-~e    we         nitfr e'  n arled
shrewd.i  . e' ' hi. n'X                                     ,.I' v'  -'  nIne~r'sI XI'ie
me al' 'ni it' they hal kntw aWc~m rn       i~l' Grub  . he ai1 t
"Ole ma- n               h       u '"te  Mrc for yungh misut
no massa o 'mine!.        il hnr                  - i  ~retfu  on  is


118  8TADI8. TANDISHO11

But I wra tell ii' you "bout old massa: he Is. for de Unii~n. iY Cd-t
to his text. nullii' could be sillier thati this  311din. 1a' I'0c's with
him. _N ,w, Mr. Grubb- it!h set on de toe!ue, with his lie-; qjurked up,
'fered:..~  'm d~iit'  one wav or t 'other, 'till huku w-w where tA~
jump. AA a.. fr yun uiil~lb S S11.'s tliihty Wi! e' b,411t 1 'etrint?
knfow 'who *11ii l  ie fvcI an w 'vlai'I Jj:A  4 it11- r cvo,4.
'em. -"he kindler inc'lit Jnt-- at tUru,--mz  t~lk jit v% 1ifdo. L0rd 44b
tak ~ Ii v into"'1%  J J-4ak%'U:19ti111 Iv-r hII *". toi  nl:-   '  kO W
Do in oiv awi u; ri     "?)gl'a~uai'ut [AL "  ~'.awa~' .
maSS s ) ht ill t  sr~  i  'A'lt rI'rr#,  Mn.  l .,t  ' 146   U
prtcI1U1, 4 .  it -'IItII-,ti 1  L  ioak2 1,.L".~.. tp
Tiv-  FoVr i  IWA'%  pa':."'#A1% :i '.L:  yv  it I'ilk,  i - - t  c'r  r
V .                ri'.ttep~I14i # vinvI% t. w' 14'.  i  nii
detail with I t w.t v inr' c, t ' r."'iv:i  knwv      '.
the              111111rive414h 1't'w  "  u  ' P .1,-i thAt  Ir'1 1i
shoul~lip-I --A'it  f  :n                          A 6'.  .ri  'I th.r.  to
guar I tdi  16' l'r C i'..  a  . I.t '1 1. rFiI',  I i I ' , r.ilir' al  as
fah  's  014. A  It -iI  ' A'-  Av I'd Iait '   -  I~f j'  l!  .L
let tAll w  t'.~         *r  t.F  n    t '~ -pnt       rr   !
sarn~ I'  i  'I- '.  .
t4) ~ ~    ,.  114          1 .A-.' '  ' V          -

tnio r k  .I  c'p 1  ii 1 t     -        '-
the  't!'  Vo         i.h   ' ' ' ~ F ;  -I
Wn-1I A'  iT'i  ~ v If  n r'-. A'I  w'  '  un-1io
pzliis  '  i'"- 'KVIl- Vt :'~  1te T1 n  nI t  n\-  i'r
for~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4h ~''swt ~u' l'~:.'t' it i er liiciwt

Til.TI" t'isit i't lik the i.emi if New Eniand. heldl in rather too
,.r'fil"p't41l!'u-stkwiUs anti.un's andi while gloryii. asevery
Amri'~i11U.t n ~ 'in        -;'''c' ' V--tcMn of 3Ma..;%h4usets, be
h.. it   ikfit aifraidl that the heart was'.no't educated 'suffieielv with
thi .a: Ith  r~lvI414r"'Ch f r I6.fir truth. for law. f r wNman,
rni~t i  '~f ti4'Nlew E L A czl.!itracto'r. Hith# tid;t 4of such
U71,  L' taue                    jir.thjollZht. ajiI peeh.
V               I                       nSice
S U  t   a  it r  4'*  :             anIp~te  .rilifntfie 'Y rk
pMt"'11  i  ta I, : I '  1 '4' Alow t'i.'Ir, !rli-ia 1B 4 ~w y
'. 7rl A'             r 1   ~  .  T  y l-11l  t  naoi
it'  i  ~t i- '~'~' .'ii.i  6~  t''  irt.'a-' ha1tt F--r0'tt from
t t IIf .'rIit              I a ng:li
A mew '' "Wc ot 'flI iziirt.ti~     ni th 'd
Nv Iii iu  r. -,t  i  1" fl-2~ fI Vt!TO~  1 1*4','f"Upo]
With -1thl. tin:-~'-
V ''I'                  i% zlifulue
private  1*11 Mit y 1A 41. tiii .  4v  i'.--"-r  ki p-sc4  o  h m
''1k  a  - ~ A t e s i Kv' itt k i: i = I t  '  t '' r  nrriAtr
a W'''-'~uThSt 1_-t u-c':               '   Lw
ear.  '.. .r  it  1 v-p    r-I _,I'1t.1.)r,-~an
S4'It4''  h- ~  , 1 '4  *'th'  ri ik  et  '  a" 'i -  i'vd
grattuih'nrt, 1-d&amp;4w Irv'. Z v.  M

118

lit

STANDISHO


-p

ffrA.SDISB .

CHAPTER XXX.

('IMP? PiS'CO JUN-CTON, WA-zMlYGTO N NDOmolIR. R.,
May 1.
I W~ROTE. Vou last fro-_m Was.;hinxton. my darling, jus.-.t after thfe !110b
in Baitiflin' r. 1Mv he-art wa t'" hiN hir1ZiWith iliUIIi'r.an 1.If I
had hail nmy way. Baltit' rt! w, uli havoc TA U levelleldNA11IthI#-. :r  il'.
But, fi'rttinatf-lv fo r the wt. nil, ..uch IIIiiui iv *v Ai  , w i  iN -  are
not oftfeyt kiiizs anti dictatt'r-.
Ir amn wconvinrici ',I theo n  W waS' g)ot iup b Iy .a -zall.i nni'r if
sece-,!.r'tS. many of W11%.111have  i 1-11,1041' OWl the U I -I PTe
matur. lthey Use!- wa.- th1- !,411111f the citv. W11-111Tt"ti  r il to
do their dirty w;erk '.ano il th.e 'vt r nwiie;. 114W t ha t  I lh.ip if4
pay-,- i4 ver trorn  that quarte-r. aro  b''i to t  *i-t . ,:n  r   '  I
very' g  Ir(-gular slI I'tywllrk.,iie        t      T       u
there %  te rub ! Bi'twe'n ionr-tVOt". thI'S# ', it:i~tt IIin'W1.1
etlot  y invhave d4)ntme ver-v w#,1lt r .?H ~ i  Ii I~ite
'wil ti   '  t1 ,kn it' ii  tli Ag jf  rij IItarv  41o1#  0 i .)  r  :  :I'
be to'nmhiae         i',t iir      r~efill 4it"'  -ri lt
self- ri   t 1vthev  v ie1, 1a  re aly1 i to tlie14't,  hi 'ti-0.~
know  Il duty,;All*]Io1'it. 1but 11hy N- lIyJ I If-An41 va-I k,.,
pense of the relenhomirns. A j,''a"AhT:littlet ititetly -o   r AvnIiw.
but it w4 iii I turni rapidly mt. a tragealiv. in the ae  .  .
Ilurra. ft tir Massachuse-#tts  .Ju-m'4 thiink :heSIPnCtJ. 11!tteS I x lav-
that fmolltwed the Presz-iden'-t's laroH-larmatlioni. five full r#, rillit-;4 if in-
fantry,-a lbattaliokn ridese. a]aiv  rs.4 of ilittarmillfer-v WtNV, -'ar
encanpt'iI4.)n the hih r  md iivthe railroad. In t" :1ijl-t 6 4  iA
turf. a rivtnin: h    x!.Anil jk1--',UI  r~  ;
walnut  . ioI Is''he-z. lar,.ramt   I  n ' lmm'iria,'IT K Ih r  'O.'  ant
upon  unlu1lai ;t I  .'i'it  'tPtI   .'Ii   i 1'       '
is  tefi  ' '  -k  if  L'.r t  i  t    "   'v'.
penil  11, Itre  i't i,    1    ~  ..I   y. T
W e I t.I vin  a  'A h     ttif \n  rr'  fe I,  jpTy
it, p4 tor  f *w  Ih  v'  tni tIe4b  ium  r  ""11  tlC  i h  i ilr  v
me    .1.        1 ie 'ith ttnk 6thewcutulti in wiillii' -  I  L hin- Th
e.I-n' i 4  War i-      ta'. NahI  har~ I I't kWi
how 'I sh  -ui I  nT  i m  ' T;!  .T K LIt.  vx'nren'.,I   't
first of May1v      ~ :1 1Wt";! I Ti. t h x  h 01   I
£~ivpnltC r U'.~an ''.r.anii~ v  th wL i- hK: I irk
out vt-r'-rvt Ivhwtik"~ iItt''                T-av V'p.v  TF-  3,
hor"~. .i~  tirat the \ AIu =          ,    -.i   I
fo~r  ht r  1!i I'x t  ll  k't hu 11,1.4'x1-4t. 1. I 1  '"! t  r,
many v.'Tr:in  nK .  , Tal t.''4m  IP.  ilti, i  v
the wIi hfortr t hIojiar      : itr- i, r. -  ar  flvta

everprylbfe        but when I think it gone forever, back the mur-
~o.Ste're will come, to terrify and torment me. How I long for
real hi.tr Ihips~ and dagers -.1 am tired of playing soldier. When
M4)rn  crvrn'- I shall go to Washingtio, and try to g et into active
serVict.. 4tae'eron sent me a most tiattering Iletter, .thankiiii; re for
the a:~Ai asking me to cuome and see hm  So what wwi a mere
kin ri. ' t4 C-omfort Uncle 'Sam for someof his I   t'.mav'
tur:i u ,TLit at of deep diipomaCy. ThiLk of that. v ur -scatte;-
bran  i~'l~nla diplomatist
WrPQ~.Iirect v.yur next letter t,)WNillard s 11It,1,.NV sh.
inau. Ever yours,                             "l~c.

CHAPTER XXXI.

AT t7-V'i _:  ni'evr  n    i -  kvrlwat-. ' ti#,I at an  ptT:1I w
terl'.  '-I : f  W  it  'r . -   et eI   i t  if-t4,#,a   :
r~~p.t 4m11,  rv                1, Ii.~'  tI.'..i?  4: nK  wt
was  I .i I  ic!  t~thle Lv i," -i'l''.  11 I  I, .rK I  irr
Sitite  p.'r  irri taIte! h i t *'rvev,:anilIt  L S  t-  wilt dIt  had
taken a  %wv urt rou s p u ffs of h~ ci,:ar that ho, 1,r iktlThe sd, and
ran h"   -,-#.' r the CloSely wri i p:.Tli '  nC'   "' h
that  1! -;$i  i'-i t  tit r,,..a  iv  m n'" I x -  i  '1  .  mh
r;sT  '''Limttr      K     f"E'a,IP       i
Acr 11-                                          1h
'i r   r  Txi                 I tn

r '-s~f

ca 9ii'Ittl'tTtoim                     k
'K   ~''  r. 4 - .l  I
t he  .11   'Vo in i ra. .L  ft!t  -  I  n  1  .i'
Miaue a.I M. Sttm' mmm's ;~arl. ' .1 ""i M~. ','1t her

120

121

a-

'in' re niit',ni tr     "'..    i
"'-'t          at  t  J.1 In1 ''  '           7.' F


122

STALvDI8HAf

'll witil fUvcr M::i and 1.r. Sto-ne eonstantlv there - Mr-z. May
so. g'rat! !  &amp;c.  '  i I t~s  at Jt4hr1Fairfai'-. -  ti% ilr  i l
Mr.  ~r.:i4   &amp;:d  _iiutI , Z Ait tip  all Jul rilt with  hlicJx.t:1'.  lilt_- I at
day [ r#- ak.
what  L 1   x.    V     1 k   ..-                'rish
w, rk.a AlA  r rM1r. t  t'~*~I h~1~~. '            ;
slic  L's                        AN''x A  t' ti'  ih I.  V.-il
4  r.  A  W
v . r  lo  ',,-  .  7,,  A ,r  i  iA
asW 1,A A A A      A  .- IA     1 XH.h
1v - .,tr - I K tA'~
AADEXRTL
1l)"  'I' A tA'I &amp;  Al      14.r  Lx  K t    .      h
Wk" i  A L i'  I:.;  I          ~ tti.''.tx-     ~  e
s I I A  t.A.I I '     LA  f a I~ j r   A          i - r
T A" vc',   -,   t" 1.   P               -:!A1.  h
Bt . t  lA  - j ''fVA rf           *            It"
~t.f  V  V  1~
foR.sr   A                                     r  art"  sT I  .  -j~i
T1 T

F rAN DLMa a

123

heart throbtel with fit-r4'-c anti bitter passion. sittin-g at 1 itiicpA the
S.1'P_:t11Ls of hisiz -ao-'ii anid clorRifif'f nAiAAc%:But lie--wai'. true to his
btuRrr  u~ttire  m iitt* w'riRAq jhA t :L  tomuI f all 1Thui71tiiiiitilt 4Of feel-
Inc,%     . -I, r  fi'l 1 9 ISi  on  hirt1f1't  iHe c U'.'  Mirinic  at'l3Mr.
vi. jjjtr ~i m -%t tA tht  .#rAA~t_,,   t  ih 1tj, ui h r lrR,34Iof
LV.IA.A  Ai  ~I.i '.1 i' h a.  I  AdII  O i.lW  A-iR'  liiAIf1111I Out
t -,   F oa. If  i    tAL) it jbA  * ,  htI  rAWIn   i ;i hl  rrlv
I             -                       P
p t- a , a%  tI l ,d r  AJAIAA-A h   uI ''  A rA-,t -I% * I t , i-  fair
E~ui  ' 4  ' A  i'  ~  A j 1  la~r  t '  t :.,  vv.  f,.4''  ifll
L4.
t                         AtLAI
4~~~~~~ liI i tlA 1ji  ii'IA-Ak  h.1,x4  . t vpay."L r  r  uT
hT' i  no xIthii, ri:-I'h  t hi-  E r.lwar1:i,r  ii  i-'11riAandtle
tAAA IA  -ii--A;  LArAivs4t  .iS  ttjr m h l I  A 1  r
III t  1,  .  l  ,i  t  I Z!I  t   III,  t" day."
Th   l   ft  rfht~W:,,1KIXIrIRr ivi  t;l. hi it'lr t i~t a ri l
tim ~ =1 AA 11  ~is  41  i  .~iA  ~~j~A-1~AA  AiA  j - I II P 1 OP11A J4 hi
IIti          ~I i, '  1 1k't  1At ,r  1,l-- A-A 1' A A . t  hare
1fi~ir                  1iIA' it '  ±r rA.A F  'X.V.  c1 vt r Iti.   TIv vwere
A~rr:  t  'A  t  '  ti. r  ! it .111  !i  xx u  .~ILAA IAAAA4Ai he
a  Ic, Afi  Ar  Ai A  A  I r   ti  vi  k  l1pit '   t.A  h
a i ' I . A   k   ' 1 " i A A L   t  i I I I  l it  ' k   A A   T L I   P   h a d
WbAtl-t  I t  J  k At 11 A-                  I    ItK
t"t  tA                                     Ar
Wi. A'kAA      'r     '       AI--
rZt1;,'                                       t " I   AA A ~ A  A AI  IRA I '  A, '  T hef
LAA           . Aj,                 f.'  A  r I '.it ' '  re-''P
ret14        A         i:brt
it  110f.  1Ti"  1  t4kF'  I'''~ h' t &amp; I  r ~ ' t ' \-dAAF'  e
Siti'..t liA-  4IA'2  ~-  4 '''  V  *'i,~  A  '   h-  RA  -AAl 1 W 1144LLIj"
ao ii  i  I t ' A-IAAj  A Tk r A'j A A  r' nl r z"  'u i tIAAAfR3t  '.

r


124

sADISM-

CHAPTER. XXXII-

WE left Iorace performing the duties of captain of the Laewpll
Guard, in the neighborhood de of Baltinrnere. When his trierdl o p'ttain
Morris came on. and took his old eniiand. he went to WashiVN.rtonr.
and wa- verv kindly receiveel i bythe  e-retarv ef War.  , eIt a
Mr. Cam-r4)n fund out ecur here's wishes. heepenedel a e..rresnd e
ence with Geovernor Andrew cf Massachusetts. and aft-r th- del-ar
which always attends the novements of great par..eu nage-. there' ecAnt
the conmisiole erofe lonel in the vet-ran rezim.e-nt fr-n Ii Excel-
lency. But thk regiment was a myth as vet : its in.un were. tee
enlisted, its blewer officers e'hoen from the oef the three mnth
volunteers who prov+-d thenselv e5 goeod seldliers : it we iol there-
f ore lbe many weeks 1f re the veteran' coull Ibe realy f.r servioee.
What was lSerace t 1 in1 the mean time : his peaieceC h- had be11 ut
a small ste ck if this ue-.fl article - hal iee-n all usedl Up iII Waiting
upon Mr   .arner.en. ID.- had walked tip and  -wn the e.trv at Wil-
lard's   eft' ne m.r eto the erw I Cf id!lr, with  hi.e ! ':. p we
was thr el : he hL talk.el. ,m kel. fiod. fr(.tt I h.- I rk
cloud whie-h hunir  ever hiT :r--wi,1r all tleldarker a, 1. 'h  htf
Ella's    e irti..n  fr  iihim. anl Ernes!t  le d i l. nil 1  let.-rin e I
to stanl th  nee long--r : he weul i gee to werk with his I ruh. er
hang him .f   The first ,ent th.-I#referal b. alt-rn O #-. an1 he
was looIkinz o'ver his sketh-e1ek. te tind the ~t au1iet fr a war-
picture. when a letter was put inte e his hand. which chatel his air
of listb  o dspslndency int the wildtes-t triuimph. IvC' tin; d4.wn his
portftehi ep. lrun: frm iiihi- chair with a Iond. ted)11!11.  ht  ep in the
air, and   vlh- jike a  eh-.  !  y. eh.. hal  eur   --Ix   C   1.  .aV.
This le- r wa. fr Cm Ge'ner 0 3  l  .fMIAitrinV hin a   ej hnish
staff d        etinIi:n  in  ;, er-' 1n   Iirin.ia . AE  in   fr  n
Mount Cus tee   -       1  ' l-  ie'h.      .1 am-
brosia  with ;  the  I  w I I  IIt Ib e.  I- t   r     .ur Ir
hero    muh. 11.. K I me-  eener\ C M                 et   at
bv  CIu  e rrnert  t., the I 'C '  C  -   it  C -C
quaint      an  t '    .     a i i h  t f. n  - - 'r ,     nr.-
ment ,           hi:     -P mri1                              t
return' : nCC, r. t I the next day~ b ~t IT     ;ura  : . CVir-
Ci i   1 I;  C o  e  C. he  &amp;  e r,
MI          C !   p:,'  i 1 h i  pr-  ! tn  n*  CC  I. u-s  , '  h
army t    - r   -,   T .  ri  : '                 -x C  a  mi:.diit
for                                                    1-
Th   re '   v-   zh  T 1  , iv  -el'4 w  rd . Iw  w. l   er.  -n-
cipali y' J i anl p. Ohr ro hI          ~   r      nur,,'  ..f sir-
ginian-   Fm the     e'  CC eh '1 '1b  ' a I med     e   m? de.
he  nd-' -                                   n ioiZl4 hf nA, Ik  I thef r  rdb.  if
fatigue  a  Id tri0               ,1 C  1r ke r  ,  Ct T v. i r-
ing them with ~Cde I   i. im-e  by the ChCCrnU e   with which
he slar- I their (e xprI . 1  jti   with wi hI h' ettled their

STAnDrSH.

125

difficulties, and the prudence which be showed in learning before-
Land the ruads they must pass over, and the obstacles they must en-
counter.
General McClellan learnt through his scouts that the enemy's force,
under the command of General Garnett of Virginia, had strongly
fortified themselves at two points not far from Beverly. Two roads,
one from Buckhannon, and the other from Philippa. unite at Beverly.
A mountain ridge crosses these roads, and the Rebels chose both
points of intersection for their intrenchments. Colonel Pegram had
the comnuid of one, called the Rich Mountain Camp, while General
Garuett. with the remainder of his troops, held Laurel Hill Camp.
It was determined that our forces should first ruarch on the fortifi-
catioon.- of Rich Mountain.
The nio)ruing fixed upon for the advance of the army was misty;
this mist son turned into rain. and then it poured with all the ti-
lenIkice 'ef a summer shower. Horace now had his first experience of
an Aiwrican campaign, so different, in many respects. from any-
thing tlt an European soldier has to encounter. Their way lay
through pathless woods, over rough hills. into valleys rich w ith a
tangled mass of vegetation. At every step the mud grew deeper,
their progress more difficult. Every noeuntain stream was swollen
into a rivulet. and every rivulet *-came a foaming torrent. home
slipped down in the mud, some plunged into pools knee deep. some
staggerei from fairdfness and exhaustion, but. sustained bey the hope
of reaching the enemy, our troops still kept lbravely on. While their
young commander, roused from his habitual calmness and reserve,
hal eve. ear, encouragement for all. How could soldiers complain,
when~ their general good-humoredly dismounted. where the under-
brush was  thickest, and led his horse through the tangled bushes,
or. giving him into some soldier's charge, stepped back to urge on
with cheering words the exhausted, or reprove the straggling r  No
act f kindness ever seemed tee be unrieticed by him. The muan that
helped his weaker comrade over the stream, was sure to receive
a "Thank you, my boy." that went to his heart.
As thev approached Rich Meuntain. it was ascertiined that the
intrenchnients. one on the teep. and one at the f6ot, of the neountain,
wero very strong in position. and could not lt' taken directly. with-,
out a great loss of life. It was therefore arranged. that Genal
Roecrans should, at davbreak the next morning, take the 8th ad
10th Indiana. and the 19th 4Iihio reiments. and. Stealing round th
mountain. climb up the vIt.    ile of the intrenehments-. so as to
surrunI the enemv. and attack the upper frtificatieon in the rear,
while General McClellan. with the rest of the tro ps. hniuld cut a
road threeugh the Woo4deb for his carmnnlkn, te a po it which cC nruItanded
the liwer intrenchnent.
At dawn, Reosecrans moved with his ceomnanl. antd Stanlish was
ordered to accompany him. It was very chilly: the woois were
thoroughly wet with the rain ef the day bfefre. and a A coll, with
but a scanty breakfast, and stiff with yesterday's march, they pushed
their way 'through the narrow defiles. scrambled civer recks, or
climbed up the bank ,tain streams. receiving from each bush
they passed a frest sath most of the party felt dispirited
and forlorn enough.

40

I


STAND   -

But Hlorace's spirits rose in proportion as those of his companions
sank. Excited by the picturesque scenery. the difficulties of the
way. and the project of a battle. his versatil- character now showed
t  h gr-Itest advant age. The first to force his way through the
thick u...lurbrush, or to ford a difficult stream, he lingered to assist
the weak and the weary. ani then would dart forward and t4ke his
old place in the l-adt.
It was wonderful how popular his crackers. soaked in bad brand.
and his worse j(Oke--s, b-came in the regiment. But there was onedi-
senting voice. -.
A lieuten.int in the Ohio 19th. a brave soldierhe proved hirne!f to
be when the fight Leg-an. took offence at ilorace's gavyety: he hai
lost his b're-akfat in -me way. and felt morose and sulkv in clns-
quence.
4 Darn that (C -lne Stan lish: he 's male -if steel ani Inia-rulr.
and aint n jud.' e, of what a human f*--s." -he inutt-rs"d. --eBsie-
its a plaguf-y ,:ht ea.,ier for a fellow to laugh at th-se stu:ps anld
bogs, wh   l h '.  t a handsnot, horse t, carry him."
Standih, oerHt-ard tht- remark. arid, acknowledgin the iustice of4
the criti, iimI v a h-arty laugh, made Lieutenant Str ng mount his
powerful I lack stallion.  When the sun stru:d-'-l up tthat dismal
morning. thi slph-ndid war-horse. who se vce lihtt-1. an- I nstrils
expanded. - t the r, ar of artillery, had borne th-- name f Zad-as. fr
Zenobia' E--ptiant Warrior : It, long befo ure this amne s*.un set. in a
bank of thr-a enin.' clouds, Zabdas had carrie so many wearv men
upon his lack. gir-n comfort to so many invalids. who we-ro strong
enough for 'a'tl. iut n-t fior that toikeutme march, that the- t-ovs hal
christened him '' The- Hospital.'' which soon becarmve, in familiar
phrase, llls. v : and th ugh Zabdas lived lng the pride- as we-ll as the
pet, 4uf his maters r-:ine-nt. andi wsendierful sturie w-r- told sf his
courage and intelligence, it was always as [l1ssy that h. liured in
them.
General Rsecrans hoped to take the enemy by urpri-e -: but a
dragsoten with dispatches, sent after him by McClellan. ni'.tok his
Way. ad was taken ptr-one-r : s'u Celtonel Pegram, waretd of the
attack, pre-parc-el himself to meet it. After a circuit sof ab ut eight
miles. the Fed-seral treoeps care upon the intrenchment at the top of
the moitain. No se44e-r .tid the en-my's pickets give ths- alarm.
than the-ir artillery upend upon the-ni. 1, rtunately the wosedls around
afford'-d th-m sme she-tier, and the blakenel and ilaste-1 trunk of
manyv a '.- .itak anl to wring chestnut remains a monums'nt if that
cannona.l-. Standish asked enerl Rosecrans for al-tut twenty
Sharps -ttrs. andi advanced, with his little band, through the midst
of the t.e-r f the runs. the crashing of the trees, antd cheers
of - h w n    Ilint where. nartly sheltered by a r--k.,they
of his  I  TrIPnen, t" A I                        -        he
could pi' k -fY the runners. One of the number, whom Ilra-ce after-
wards fe-undI t.- bwa Metholist preacher. proved to be a w-nderful
shot : at ea-h crack of his Enfield a man fell, and he always added,
-" And mar the Lo rdl have mercy on his soul," not thinking the body
worth prtivin : fe'r after the aim he had taken. Our surly Lieutenant
of the \inetee-nth was almost his equal in skill. and mo re~ revengeful;
lie sang cut, when his shot took effect, "' Southron, how do you like
the Yankees now? "

In the mean time. R.'secrans had placed the Nineteenth Ohio bojs
on a high piece of ground, where they could command the position
of the enemy. From this height they poured down volley after
volle up'n the discumited Rebels,. whom they had drawn from their
enrnehments, by falling back and feigning to retreat. At last the
moment came for a bayoret charge. and General Rosecrans. pleased
with Ilerace's energy and daring. gave him the welcome permission
to lead it.
FiT hIavoriets!  The rattling iron mingbe4 with the booming
of the cainnon. the cracking of the riles. the :rs'ans of the wounded.
as the Indiana soldiers dashed on to the charge. The guns were soon
carried. and1 the euemy began a general retreat. while the victors
eager'v 'ureu- Ithin down the steep m ountaim paths.
At        U .h%: # R crans recalled his  nn. arid re-firned them in e
of battle. t.it they might be prepare I to receive the tire front the
lower 1' tir -Ation. Bit no attack cane.  donil Pesrim. feeling
he cull io longer hopi' to hold his position. determniwld to steal
away un-b r eover of the night. before Generil Mech-ln', :ruTs
should .!p-n nrOri him. and Rosecrans troops renyw the I attle.
The next morning, General McClellan saw a whit. tlg tvim  from
the R1bl t rt. which had been desertel. toger#ther with tt,. hrse
and I. ra sr. Pressing on with his forces he completely hemned in
Colonel Pe.:ram and his followers. andI compelled th-1 to orrener
as priss-e of war. The battle of Rich M'untaim ha ended in a
decisv.- victry  the enemy's work   runs. tents. at-I wagons had
been cap~tur. di; Clune Pegram and a number 0t, his men taken
prisoner. . beut McClellan dil not pau-e for a mrormnnt. Finding that
General   r      at Pegram's surrender. had dieserted Lauiral Hill,
and was retreating on lluttonsville with all hi infantry. tifteen znns,
and ix squadros of cavalry, he pursue- him wiit hi whole ferce.
His tr- p traked the Rebels by th tents. t-ntples, knapsacks,
caps. andi ca, ~   they hailtrodden down undir their tymrig feet.
Wagne wero up-t. and only saved from falli.: .ver tin narrow
mountain rt into the gorge-s below, by bu sh. an trunks f trees.
As th+- path grew narrower, the enemy ha iIl-1 trvs a'russ it, to
delay hi, pursuit. Still. the Union treoop-. without rei-t  r food.
pressed on. lit#,rallv cutting t' ir way thr'u:h the ul-kel-up road,
hcramlinr o vor rocks. climbing hills, fordi:: ,t rram. borne on by
the hope if s   overtaking the enemy.
General Garn4-tt hal cropss4d the m. uintain'- t Ch it River. and
officers ari men were lying de-- on its Iank't r '  unen1 MeClel-
Ian's advance cane upon them. As so  as they soy it. thy again
retreated. On reaching the third f4erd .f Cheat 1iver. beieral narnett
determined it make a stand. On one si-If wer" mouu f lws antl corn-
fields, onu the other a hijh lluff. corvred with t; ,. sf laurel.
Fording th- train. he placed his men .' th  N * -   1 by the
laurel.~ lle- l-ft the wazftn trains sta-vm'EV in th- riv er. t lead the
Federal tr1.ps to believe their army had passed n.  i that the
horses hal beeen unable to drag their heavy  ls - 'ver the rocky
stream. As the U nion skirmishers appr. aldtet''.tet-mtr
cried -dn't shoot, don't shoot;: we surrender .At the moment
that the Ohio Fourteenth, Colonel Steedman. was advancing toth
river's side, General Garnett called out, --Three cheers for Je.

117

STADMB-

AN


128

STNsDMS-0

Davis!"   At this signal the bluff became one blaze tf light, and
poured its fire uptin the Fourteenth, who instantly jailtl. c0411
returned the compliment, and then took up their pot-itiin I hind "a
fence, near the bank of the river. The enemy's battery  ow opened
upon the Ohio men, but they stood their ground. ant returned the
fire with a rapidity and precision that soon made itself ft'j n the
height above, while the aim of the Rebels was too high :rn.  a bullet
came h       _ii ovr the- heads tf the Federal %.oldier. itl  ,blh!s.
taking of th ,tops of the trees. often burst beyond thlir II I.Th
Federal artillery was now ordered up  every man wantl I    at the
post    clanger. - all pressed forward. and the engag'nm..t  trame
gener !.  hiring tis time. Standish had been exauiir  wIth-his
glas th. land on the other side of the river.  udly. h- took a
res. lut" *1.. a3i1 selecting. with McClellan's approval, a tw br  tfM..
he marched down the bend of the stream. the water r.l, to his
waist, uinitir the iluff, between but below the tire FI' I..th arnits.
The b41mi;, r of the guns. caught 14 by the surr ounin;11 n0 tains.
was ewh-dl anl re-eChoed until it 're awav in ldistal.! thulier :an
iron hail rattled above his head. ant showers of bullets raiNe I ar ounid
him. But he led his ruen s rapidly. that the enemy  wre unalble to
bring thi:r  ri-; to bear upon tht little band, and in'a t fNwv me nnts
they ha 1  .a-"d the liwer bank on tlhe Rebel's rKr. :&amp;'1  were
poun::re  a I-ally tire upon them. The mianeuvre was ,ueersful.
The Cniftratvs, who, with the river as a barrier, wer- outly re-
sistiig tur fire in their front, were panie-struck at this t!ank attack
they ft-aredi they sht.uld be surrounded. and fleid in confu-ina : while
H      sorace's nin. frcingz their way Otut tf the thicket, pur ui them.
General Garnott. alone kept his place by the river sid-. waving his
handkerchi.-f. and calling to his men to return.and dispa- with their
foe the    a   of the ford. A few tf the boldest turned. and drew
themswlvo-; up at a short distance behind him. A seth-ir in the
Georgia uiiform %ame foirward, anti jlacel himself r#o-';4lutely by his
side. Inlin Itullets rained abtut them. and one lodged in the
General hart. Ie fell back t-al. upon the sand. The Georgian.
after tiring t-ne sh.t. to revenge his commander's death. topped by
his silt-. .'.rate came up at this nitmoent. and stooping t'tor General
Garntt, If-f tmund his death had teen intantaneous :-t a muscle
was c-nv4lk-1 tr a feature diI.ttitortld. He closed his eye . laid his-
hanlkerhlif v.-r hiI face. and 4 place a guard of sli r t- protect
his cterpsIe-Ir ii any ini-gnity.
Th        11% ri wi, ,till in the a: nie s of death, tearing : :p clis of
earth wmiTh hi hin 1  il  '-ping fPr breath. le was a ;trlfn ly-
built. v"i: r u  nuh. withI a Ltermined th h in his ey, that shI wed
h  w w   i ih at   .thin::.  tanlish raik--i him in hiis firms. and
pturtd -   w drp, 4f hranl fr--m his pocket-flask tdwn his thrt.at.
The -  lietr r  -e his t n  itusness for a moment, afl I oked up
-Cani 1 d1 anything f-r y'iu. my boy ? You stood ly yo~ur-
eral t-o tht lat, anti I h ni- y a for it."
The I e' reian smiledl, a ;rrim smile. as if' pleased to have won an
entemry'% pr uise, anti then his fa've strangely softened. as h.e said -
I wis-h" - ga--ping anti bringing ttut each word with difficulty
- 1 wish -vyou 'd tell -my mother -how I died -she sets--a
store tn me "--

SrAmDU.

129

With one groan and a convulsive struggle for breath, this brav
spirit, which his mother valued so much. tied. He was taken to the
hill above head-quarters, and buried by the Virginian troops. Would
it comfort that mother, to read this inzcriptiou on his grave ? "YName
unknown.   A brav-t(i Georgian, who shared his General's fate, ad
fell fighting by his side, while his companions fled."
The action was over.   The reserve of the army came up. each
regiment was assigned its quarters on the battle-field. The wounded
of the Uijioti and the Rebel forces were carried off to hospital qu-
ters. where they received the same surgical aid and care. The dead
were cttllo-cted, and a guard placed over them for the night. As
racec, whose activity, when he was in a state of excitement, would
never let hin rest4 a sisted the surgeons in their sad office, and de
vised intitans of comfort for th.'4e whom no medical skill could save,
the hporrtrs of this fratricidal war came over him with sickening
force. Hte had been accustomed to sete that the eny'ivswounded
were tre-att d with humanity, but he would  ae considered it a girl-
ish se-ntiment.alit. t have allowed regret for the sufftrings of an
Austrian foe, to din ti triumph of victitry.  But these wounds on
the battle-field see',i t have h-velled all distinctions.  The fierce
determination with which lie had fiollowcd up the enemy. died into
tendeni--, as he looked on their suffering. Patriot anti Rebel groan-
ing in awaoiy, or grateful ftr.kin iinss. se-eme1 strangely alike. The
love of rat' that strong irrv-i/istibwle- h n 1. that knits every American
heart to hi. brother. w% iether his. hirtlhplac-1 he Maine tr Georgia,
would mi.ke itself f ti onw that the ctottet was )ver.
Th-re 's a brave little tHOw.'' aid the surgetmn to Horace, a
they sstov1 togeth-r in nt-eof the hiteeoital tents . he has just had his
leg ampitated above the knee' jotint. wvuld not take chl r form, and
bore it without a grai."
Standishi bent tver him, and said, '- 11w I.d you feel nOw, my boy?
Can I die anything fur you '
The lad opened his eye1  - - 1 'm glad we 'rt- gcting home, ant
you"
- Homo - where' ?asked Horace."
" Home to the Unin :" and the boy shut hs eyes andmurned his
face away.
"6 I theouzht that was a Rebel prisoner.' sail ,ur htero. as he held
an arm which the surg- wii was hindling up.
- Yo. but he says ht was I rn in Maathusetts. was making his
uncle in the S)outh a vi Sit. w  th-6 waIr hr kt iut. anid was forced
into  the  (Cnf rate  s.rvie- .  lie  wa v b t  b h;is ww fTficer. as he
was running dt-wn the hill to je-in ur tr - I  We have' had  eera
instancs-i of the kindi. - a litu i4 m rt, :  : %u please. said the
do-tq or.
An  h   ir later.    o- tn4e1   tappet   IIr'  t e '  shil  er.  fle
started . tht man II him helieI-i noman,-l. -hut thena it was ,only a
Rebel s.dlir, concerning whoN the g l tettr afte-rward., remarked,
"An interesting case, sir, and oee requiring skill in the treatment ;
but the pooer few tcannoet live :leth arms amputated above the
elbow."
The person who had so abruptly called Horace's attention, wa a
tall, lean nurse, with a kind of skull cap of black calico, under which
17

e

I

4L


1A0NDISH.                                                                           3

her hair, if she had any, was completely concealed, and beyond which
her ears extended in an ever-listening, watchful attitude.
" No. 10, over there, says he has taken a fancy to your face,
air.  Yes, coming, coming," to a feverish patient, who called for
water, at the other end of the tent.
Ten was the number of the Massachusetts toy, and when Standish
reached his bed, Supposing this curt summons to mean that he was
wanted there, he found him in a high fever.  I1is eyes, bright as
stars, were wide open; his breathing cane fast and oppressed,
through his crimson lips, and one little hand, delicate as a woman's,
supported his head.
" Mary." the little soldier ituriure el, as ie race lean'el cver his
cot,  there are the orange bljesoms 1 proenisI edyou: they are a
little withered, vou kiteW$. dlear. - the gunpoiwle#r did it."  Start-
ing up in boeed with a wild y:rv  Run, run ejuick ! run. or the ltWls
will catch us ! But vo lik' tth liebels, Mary .'You need iOt shake
your heal. - y.u like the Ilack-lbeardel Cajptain, - I know you do.''
lie fell back exhausted. - his ebrea,thirg r.w f.inter, - the tush
on his cheek pale . -Ihis feel ' hanid souLht lie race's, and pressel
it, - he av'e oCne4 lccnT-drawn igrh. and died-
A little miire air." sail the doctor. cutting the earn Cf the can-
vas with his pernknit .  Any  xcitentt. any indulecef the
feelings, is ead for tie patient. Captain Standish. - sure to I efel-
lowed bv a reaction which -. ab : I h e. this is a case in pwt. -
proves fatal.  Mrs. Briewn allre-sing: the female with auribw
tis), tell Hackett to remove No. 14)."
The next in rriirtg H race saw the little Slobli.r lowered int, -
trench fier burial, and directly after him cam#e a dark, stern-loc kin,
Southerner.  - Who know- but what that is his rival. the black-
beardeel captainn" thought lHo race :*and he trushed1 his hand quickly
across hi, evyes, and walkcel away, tip zet his b rcakfa1t.
Thus endel McClellan's successful carnpaicgn in Western Virninia.
Without fOt or ret. his tre1ps had marei over thirty mih-s
neither weheS, n unt -in, ncr streams had hecckel his prc;;r4s .r
turned him frem his plursuit. until the en'nv were del.fe'atedl. their
General killed. anl the greater part of their guns and baggage
wagons in his possssi.,n-.

C IIAPTE RXXXIII.

How stupi1 it is. iiuNnie. to do all this packing without a man
to help    ' " exclaimed Resalie Uppermant. as she threw  herself
into a c'ha~r to rest. while Mirnie citntinid to f-1ddj soldier's shirts
and dressirng-gowns, and stow them with soctmks, andl slippers, and
packages, and parcels. of every form and size. into the recesses of
a deep box which stood in the entry at Lakewood.

" Not stpid at all, Rosalie: just think of the pleasure the poor
fellows will have in receiving all these thin;,s from home. As for
the gentlemen helping us. they would only spoil our work: they
have a masterly ger neralizinr  way with them, and cuant jelly,
books. gaines, andi shirts, would make in their hands a kind of
bod~-pode . by the time they reached Washinxton.     Hand me
that blox (of lintt :hore 's a nit, e*ner for it."
Oh 1  can't  I 'm tote tired to move. You've lint enough in
alrea lv. Onte wu-I think the sol-lieri were to eat and drink lint,
and Si cp in it toU.Such whlesa- preparatieen, for wounds must
da:ny      o th  Iitstfot' any army :heow much better to wait until we
hear it is w'ante I. 1 befteri' wcetol at' niymre."
It will le w,mvited1 ve ry -scn. p.'ri pers ile.forc' this box arrives
we ar' t lhv a :reat b'tt1. in  riia
Nt' n-wsn peers h  e si t fer the last nierith :do you speak
Aen Vt *ir authcrit'  Ak.\. Minnie. th it blri,h an-we'rs for Y4u: you
have ht l a littt-r.  I d 't are about the movement'its of the army,
bout I dI want tee kneow wit it aek it  lr. Talbt gives of himself.
lit, WLs snl by mv cui. Wilie Ile rbert walkinir in Washi'wton,
wj'ilb a beauiet itui 'w mtan c'n hij'. arm.  Willije i die we them, htopinig te)
pt %p'.C h wi'h M~r. Tail '. end an initroc tie n ti the lady  but
t- v disa~pe ir' in jethM4 'lhan l-11it i. a1.1 were seen no more.
WhI tt Ie v.'u think cf it. iAlintnie
-I ti:tk ti l a lv we V ~irgintii Lee. -whait an immense dressing-
p w   : l ;ella.h  ' ~  I:nt ha.tvte orn  with 'IUt : tck. -ihe -is en-
,~~'l eE ceonel Ta ijc1. and e ensiere I ve ry hand-cmne.'
hoytn't lee teec sure Cf th it. ' interpe  I Rleiie. -~ The're are other
han ismeifl w-e'n itn triowe wrl. l-,ide  Miss L.-e. and Mr. Talbot is
a gre it admrir,'r cif lbeaitv'
-Vecrv tru.-c.'' sajJi I i.oi. with a smile so --creneC that Roesalie
felt herself tile-d. a'i tri, 1 anthettr pi r --t attack.
'-\i-mi' whent w.e M\r  tcYne her ''
c Ip-i'  I I en't rt--nr  See I h re tiie I the large box
with cut yu : 'yew hteilp nt- there *a : f r Il with ;hi'e tobk
..  t'5 -  n-rhli % ac,. when  I '   reti  .  c a' I t '  have  alittie
talk.gr.t. Ii.- dt.ran:  i w ~- in AIr. T1 if1 t4 ,cc ic in hr's rcsig-
nl itti e to th - VTry  T cr  .i~thme mysteriieus i the whie
m   1ater. 1r. Stt' ha",c e'  b:M is we'll
-  l' -r  t en-.' !,  -  i  w * t  y  '1 ' rit 1 '  C  Oters ttn  plots
arid  e-heU*   i  w h v1 dC 'I.    Mr. T' ,-A   i.t ,   C  his tro' r '-on
feer r,'irein:. :'e~l tee Mr. ate  ,imiyc - nature.a'  i- '  like  -
--i inte rreur     I  *,' o    he '  'i ii M  e.  his  blck
wai''t, wi MWtht   taintt ri    : white abve it. fir ugh the hail
Wil                                          .4IceW  lo -
\Mr  nrcet evtge-- 1  --          c cd itenn Ia lies.  -\ n untexpC-tced
^ .    u  H Si... %.is 4   ,I!sH . yc c1Jf-k tirel ;  let  me
fii-ht thmc-e boeck,' !tr e h4.
T- Tink veiu. 1 clhafl lee ve'ry :r-ttef'l fcr yCour aidl. But, imdeed~,
Mr. '  e -. it det'  nct  , .ie li  k  Itle  i, th  tnlisecriminat  W  .y
you hIt i nst p1t i1 a re di.. .' .ler i. Thit cokecry boek MPy
be  utei-l  beut I e  -'t hIthin .  Ib.,.  ,..delie'r is  ome thling.  ver ut ike
a mant. th it this ceI ldirectt C"y "r I '..'- t ji-' of st ii i-ties. th it yoru
are steewi'i aw~ 5Cy e'tcrefutly. wriila  .'. his Ici'.' re. Tht;,e are

1

130

131

STMman.


1TADTIS.                                       8

the contributions of the neighborhood. vowl see: I will pick out the
most readable. and hand to you. Here 's a nice pile of novels to
pack: Rosalie sent them.'"
"Very nice. 'Jane Eyre' will fit here. and 'Never too Late to
Mend,' above it. What a strange idea-a small book fir this
space, Miss Campbell, - for any one to seud old schoolbieoks to
amuse a soldier, an invalid, especiv."
"Yes." answered Minnie, laughing.  part of the same delusion
that makes clergymen and .other good people give bmooks to poor
children, which no rich child would read, weak stories upon which
heavy morals are hung."
".%pare me, Miss Campbell: my conscience pricks me. -what
can we put in this corner ? Ohi this tat volume 'of Misr' Austen
will fit exactly. - I am afraid I have 1-n guilty of that folly
more than once in my life. But next Christnias vou shall choose
the booAks for me. -.Vyou. I gazing a-hirinrglv up a Minnie.j who
know the taste of every child in the Sunday  c
Your high ;opiioin of Mis a('mnepbell is rtI cipr1cat#1d.'' said
Rosalie, " you interrupted, bv v.ur entrance. an culogium she was
pronouncing" -
" Merel d.Ife.ndliung uv." interript#-d Minnie. with a blush.
The thought .f leintg dffnded by Mi'  %ampbeI, ma.  Mr.
Stone so happy thait he firg'ot to ask of what he was accwsod, and
worked away sme tinms. in silence  When the [-ox was tinished,
Miss R salie put on her things. and Mr. StrrI. though wishing
to linger. felt in duty bound to aIconqpany her. as the suna had al-
seady set.   Miss Rosalie talked of the sunet, the war. the
Sunday Sch    l I tut Mr. Stone's anwe'rs howe that his thoughts
were lsewhere, and shte was pnte'ri;: l-v what art she coll make
him unveil then. when, wiping his high cheek bnes in that way
well known to his parishioners as sure to follow the " D earlv Be-
loved," while a kind of mahogany color spread from the roots of
his hair to his thin, yellow beard, he began -
" Miss Campbell -she defended me - do you think-- that is, can
you say - I -iknow so little about women ; my mother died in my
childhood : I never had a sister : would it be asking too nch ---
that is to say. a liberty, if- Mits Rosalie. be my friend."
here th poor voung man plunged his hands into his trousers
pockets in a very unclerical style  Miss Rosalie answered (with
downcast eye' . Trust me ; open your heart to me : consider me
your friend, sister
Mr. Stone pre'-e 41 a little ieed hand in his honest, hearty
grasp. " Thank votu. von never -ball regret vur kindness. Your
advice - I want to ask - dIov y u advise me tio- to in shrt. to --
address Miss Canpbell at onc'e. or wait until she has had more
time and opportunityy tio jud::ge f my character:'
Miss Rosrie played with he r wr sunhaili. opened and shut it, as if
some inspiration were hidden in the sp-ring, and then turning sud..-
denly to Mr. Stone. asked -
"HIow long have you known Mr. Talbeot ?"..
-" Many years. But do answer my question ; don't talk of Mr.
Talbot now."
" Have patience. Hie has been a long time ,a friend of yours ?"

I

" An acquaintance, perhaps, rather than a friend. y oa
brother Richard, was at Harvard with Talbot; they were friend_,
and worthy of each other. Richard studied medicine, and his lif
fell a sacrifice to his heroism at Norfolk, when the yellow fryer
raged there."
" Then," said Rosalie, who had listened impatiently to the
family details. " your course is clear. Both Mr. Campbell and
Minnie must feel that their acquaintance with vou is very short :but a
word frim Mr. Talbot will put it right.  Sit down this evening
and write a long letter to him: tell him of your love for Mi
Campbell, the sympathy of tastes and pursuits that has constantly
increased it, your hope that you are not entirely indifferent to her,
and ask him to assist your suit by using his influence with the
fair lady, in your favor."
Mr. Stone's face brightened as he listened, and when he tok
leave of Miss Rosa ie. it was with the feeling that, after all, there is
nothing' like a female friend. A woman's suggestion, thought the
honest Rector. like the answer to a conundrum, seems very simple
when you know it, but a fellow would be a long time finding  t
for himself.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

VtsWuMtA was standing on the broad. old-fashioned porch at the
Manor. One beautiful arm. left bare by her sleeve, which had falle
back, on'iroled a pillar. ag-ain't which she leaned for support; the
other haind played abhtractdly among her dark curls, where they
were tied back with a seari-t ril'le'n, hsr only rniment. but which,
with her whit. dlre. f)r'mned the                 Hefederat' olr 1Her head was
bent a little forward a it' lit"Ii to something: in the far distance.
There w t- a e'ricket* n the' pi-t tzainst whici she leaned : it chirped
very 1,oily in her ri,:ht ear :-he knock. d it do.1wn impatiently. Still
she heird it - it +, 'wened to b. in every part of the porch at the sme
mom 'it   Then th.-r" w s    yv in a spi Ir' web over her head,
which k. rt btT in'ig u! '  enent ti- s. as if a humwn creature cared
how  -   it be an'thi ' 'ty '-aulth m-nd o'f the fit ldl monster
who !at :ruariding it  T     . t t. bit 1radr060l. and! somehow
or oth'cr. all th-. thi  pmt  :ethtsr. cau] \ irgnma too .st down
on th' 'k "  t' p  and bur't 'ut  ry i. Pre"-e:tl.y she raised her
head. n I this tim'' it w is n irth-r crie'k#'W. tly. nir gnat. but the sound
of a h. er-' 's hof  min e Z nearer. th it m i14' her stirt up. and1 brush
away her tears with a will. tremblin attemptt at a smile, which only
gave h,-r lip'f a convulsive twitch. ani ende  in a set expression, an
if she were savin-z ' prunes an i prA m'o.
Just as her i'tT.rts at co omp''r" h id arrived at this conclusion, a
young nuin. dressed in the gray Rebel uniform. drew up his foamin
horse at the door. threw the reins over its head, and not only sprang.1
its back with one leap, but on to the very step where Virgna stood,

i32

anmorI.

j


and at the same moment caught her in his arms as unceremoniously
as if this were the usual mte of salutation. 'And, stranger still,
the lady. instead of making the remonstrance proper on such occa-
sions, hid her blushing face on his shoulder, and seemed to have
found what she had long listened ind waited for. Presently Jim
cane riding up, all panting and out of breath, and wondering in his
faithful negro heart. how Massa Harry lber got dar so sHoon: but
like the prudent colored individual that he was. h.- toosk Massa liarry's
horse in silence to the stable, and the only rernark that he made on
the state of affairs in front of the house. was, to tell old Dinah, as
she took off his red coiforter, which he watr- in true darkey fashion
in spit of the Jutie weather. '' that he ',pwct. 'cording t what he
see 1 on the piazza. and 'cording to what hc ht'arn at Manwa.-as, dat
dar 'd le an end oh two 'agenorits *oon. 'ider nwayt  or de udder ;
and on b-ing pressed to explain his ruvotern 'us savin:. he only
pointe'! upwari . and remarked in a isletm!tone. dat ie church war n't
so far off nedier.
iPtiurini tO the  .rch tSS take an th. r lo~ok, he a-k''i. - if Mas'.a
Harry did it want d' m.ud  b-lant l If om l -i bItI s  ofIt   huiten"
Virgiiaaaid  i' wta "urt he hd. an  "h' Xiw'ul. brii hini his
skipper" : but Ilarry cri"  'ut ou ihe .h b id1I n.u'h tlhin- : he
did  r't  w  unt his  it  r : he  want, i  t ' t   .  i'r, a Ifi tht  Jim
aght ,: . i h0. p t: Lazua. to a        rr "'pars than c' S.
Jim wi'.e!y t k thia t nani thi kit), h. an! idepairteil thither. with
some lpre:ipitati -is. Ani when h had  -i  . larry went on ti sav
thore' would. I ie a terrii bIt'Loat tle tmii',rr ow.- that in sme respects a
soltdier .' life was CROWhInuudillyd-are'abl.  a tif-Iw ne'v'r know
what m ight happie'ni ti him) J1 eWaiL, --- tisat he ahl''t w'1i ihe
had never ".e.'n Virginia. and' etil' i.-d vtakii: anfither such hb'rtv as
I have dearrih ii nhis tir't arrival. TltS wlitb lVirinia r'hli-d -4he
was ver' pal' iw. an] her vei   ' ar-e. which mut lk attributeI
to ha'Ivi r.ini.iu  I Slit o  lat ii nI the Iiazza. - that  sh' had riot
thought it wloull ."  quit'  -4 bIDhut s' eiuld bear it. Then
Harry whigered     uettini in her ear : her eye' tia".hed. she raised
her head. 4nd11 sail -
What. really' An t Patter-n doe4  s 1 not knw it :
N  .  I ranny  I' tt'r  i, 's .t1  ittin: t.'t  r' Wins'he'rr. qjuaking
*in her lipp, r, w tb!~ th'  x \ tat i lt an imWatiosate attack tro in
J hndl-n. ith' spiW-- 7ar is ac'tually tS;b-:raphbin r ieral ''ott for
r r   tt.Iii ,- d  a  u   ti  b  true: ''  and  in
expre-in.: hII~ ti ibt. larry 11iund it nuees'eary to draw \irnia so
clos'ly. to  hiT. a'sdi .,1aze uip,s  her !&amp;  pa-onatl. that  th  cl)lor
cane ruintigr lack to her fac- aain.,
Coltil Tal it "'swnt oi t' 'ttatt', thait J1 'hnt n had' joined tItm at
Mlanaas. with a !part 4t hi. f'ror'. anI that Kirb v  mnith was ex-
ps'cted th next dAy, with thlie rt. V'ir:inia (lapp i  her hans, and
sa.,ii how iuse that W 1. only -h'' h-iInoloably intends'led to) sav she
felt c'Iz. for " shuLidtr .I an! I -k I at Ilarry with an exprekion
which I can hard ly die". ribe.. tex'''pt that s'.'m. wot~en Itok so at
9,-me men. wh im tht''y lttve, very much.r atnd think they will never see
again.- An'ths'r thing w'hh ci arrieo.s out the idea that she was cold,
is, that they be th goit up fr' mi the sttp,. and walked to the farthest
end of the pi'Lza. where in1 the west the sun was setting among

TADIMSs

many brightcolored clouds, and a little purple one, which Virgimis
remarked was herself. and arr said he could not see it. As they
Looked. though. the sun went slowly down, and first the red clouds,
and then the golden ones disappeared, and the poor little purple
cl6ud was left standing all alone, upon the horizon. Harry turned,
and looked at Virginia: she pushed away the arm that was around
her. and ran into the house. IIis whole frame shook with great con-
vulsionis, which seemed like waves passing over a corpse. his face
was s4) pale and still. After a few moments he, too, moved away,
and went to the stable to erd.'r his horse,. As he cae back along
the path that led to the hou"..'. a pleasant path, where the trees inter-
laced their btranch.'s verh.'ad. and th- grass ever grew freshly under
fi""t. rv'tzardless f the way in which it was trodden down, he saw an
#11 man coming t.owards him : it was his father. The two met,
-kt=d in eah *t her's face- ftr one moment, and then byv an invol-
unitary impul thOy clasd' hands. the first time for many months.
,ilently the ld ruau lruhi'd the. te.ar. from his gray eyelashes. and
llarrv'went rn fl! to ith fr*nt I .-r. avoi found Virginia. and Phil,
an.1 Iih.  l n i  .e:,r and  r:. and J. iall parking one ba ket,
whih 'w i". v.'rv sm~all. .nd us  've'ral times with it"- contents : but
at lazt it was tiuni-hedl. anil he waS shaking hands with Phil. and with
i&amp;h. uanl with 4a'ar. and with Georgt. then he wanted to shake
l cnd, with Jim: but thi, uliv hid Iadicat, ly objected to taking up
Ia tima' in' Thi war iw '- 'au'. nias-a I 'm gwine whar you be,
and   4 P.-t I 'Ii hI'k de  '1 dr 1,nr toots hs I o f-rv night.
Th. nxt thi': I.irrv know. they were all gone, like the figures i
a Ire Sn!. a1 h  wa'.s tanliun alone with Virginia. He took her in
hi, ar,.    1-10 ked in hi'r fie : it was very pale. hut her eyes
'.m   mr F rilliant t him than ever, and her smle was full of hope
and If v. as Th'' whi;spr. 1 iething about lein- brave, andI meeting
arain. They harT Ly kaw what it was. either f them. but it gave
Harry fre".h heart. and he 0T O. an1i' kiesed her. t'r one long, last
time' jumipqd a his hror. - n I wa  ne. Then The heard therfly
aain : this tim'' th. ,idIir had :'It it by n le . and it was buzzing
with all its might: she felt a .t biting her trehead. and the cricket,
rhe th..nrht. mu t le muikin: her :r:f. In fact, the cricket was
mirri r than v. r .1 a it inh d *ne bur-t of chirping joy,
it I  in anoth. r, and~ 'iri a  It cd. an'd sik. and wished it
w    ! st p : it.! the next th : 4h1 knew  m b   0ody held her in his
arni. an  a dear- 4ld fate w  a :rav beard was e.dlir over her,
and she whijsr.'d in a y,.i''  t twi' ashoIr-se as the one before,
becau'#' she ha Is'b'rn ai the pta . twi'e in0ong. that The hoped she
had not fainted before II irry went-away. --and that was all.

I
I

d

134

aTANDIS.

135


'1

13i

urmn-

CHAPTER XXXV.

By two o'clock on Sunday morning, the twenty-first of June, all
wa   stir and preparation in the Federal army. By hillside and
mountain slope, in mistyvalley, and by running stream, miles apart,
camp-tires were lighted. About these stirred the cooks of each regi-
ment, preparing the early meal. Horses wire rubbed down. fed, and
harnessed to the artillery. Army wagons and ambulances were got
ready. ani soon, without noise or confusion, every regiment took its
place in the line of march.
On they passed, with brilliant uniform, embrilered standard, and
burnishexd bayonet glistening in the moonliht. volunteersI' m all
the Union-loving States, full of enthusiasm. but wanting the dis-
ciplined courage of veterans.
The enemy's position at Mitchell's Ford, on the road fr 'mu Centre-
vile toManassas Junction, having proved qoi Thursdav's recoinois-
sace too string to be attacked with prudence. it was debternined
by McDowell to take advantage of the Stie Bridge. crl.irng Bull's
Ran higher up, to mass his force-s 'n his right wini:, a.I turn the
enemy's left flank. The reserve force undf r Colonel Miib-s. fortu-
nately containing Blenker's Germans. were left for the protutiton of
Centreville, while the rest of the army a ivanct1.
The left and centre having the shortest distance to march, were
frst in position. The left. under Colonel Richarison, was piisted at
the site of Thursday's skirmish, with orders ti make a f int at the
moment of the real attack : while Tyler, with the rest of uii isn,
west along the Warrenton Turnpike. and took posiin   Ippsite
Bull's Run Bridge.
The right. under Ilunter and Buri' a1v1 . 0n al lw: ditance,
with the intention. after er1iZi al' It m. if env-i-.1- th 1 ft of
the Conitederate forces betwe. ni their clumiti and that 'f Ge'neral
Tyler.
In the mkean time great .tivitv pr*vail-I in tb     1 army
After thf trioips hail taken i. r br-akfltt. th * h .fais  the dIf-
ferent rt'Xients sviimInlV  xhortAl thon t,4 dI. th ir  IV  in this
day's b4attb- .blearin in mind :hat th0 1 f t'h F ''   i:  I -raev
depenidel  p upon their  :  and iter  at.  . Ta-' 4, . the
pating bit.itwemn r't   i hrthr. fat hir a'i son . lit wvrds
were sp kin, ib-i :innraurel. t ir irt-h I cwy t i cv' un-
bidden. and ea'h rne:mt, az'z Alling umler it" r ,peti. I ta1 l1rd.
took its appointed platcc-
General .f  hnt!tn'1 tr p" f r  I  $ - I-ft win: l f the   1 q  ar'ny
General B- I; upi, ih advan   p ,1- Ewo 11, ri: I1 m .r it'd
to  Uniln MIII : lu ral .  .Nt-- was p  -1e l at  1 , io's  F r Ii :  in'ral
Long-street at Blackburn' F-rvi :' Iivirl B nh ui. with his
division. at Mitch-.' For i  nJrtl 'k.eAl  lnd I  &amp;.     were
ptaed it the right winlg, a4 I Ir , in I Lirly's I rigaI- were held
in reserve .
It s'eeai that Beauregard, strange !y in.ug'. hal given r lris the

ST-s.

137

sight before, for an attack to be made on SUnday morning, at ix
o'clock upon the Federal army at Centrerilie, which was to have
been done by an outfiLanking of the left wing of the Union army.
He depended upon the Hampton Legion, and 'me troops withdrawn
at the last moment from Fredericksburg, to arrive on this end of the
feld, and form the reserve of the attacking squadron.
General Johnston, the senior general, though he left through
courtesy the command to Beauregard, disapproved of this plan, and
when ti scouts brought the information to the Rebel headquarters,
that the Union army was marching down from its strong position,
to assail their superior numbers, he induced Beauregard to give up
his plan. and standt on the defensive. But no change was made in
the po..ititio of the Confederate army, except to strengtilhen its centre
opposite the Ford. on the direct road to Centreville.
it was vleven o'cluck before the main attacking force of the Fed-
eral army began the battle. The brigades of Tyler's division crossed
the bridge and joined in the fight. But Schenek's brigad, most un-
accouitallv remained on the east side of the Run. 1eavin1g the left
of th centre uncovered. In this place. too, Gteneral Tyler. from
want 4f experience. contented hiTiself with silencing, instead of
taking a Rech battery. which was left in the rear of the advancing
colunin. Later in the day, the S uth Carolinian Gunynrs returned
to this I attrv. frum the adjacent thicket whtre they had taken
refuge : andl 4r these two blunders. the country paid a heavy pen-
altv'.
The frtiune of the battle nearly turned upon thle p-ssion of a
cluster f f'arm-buildings. ccuipyin. an elevated position upon the
line of the advance. Could the Union troops have held these, a
junction would have been matdel 1$. tweti their two attacki; columnS
and the inemv ftreed to Itive up their ine f defence. Th.- itbls
 defense il thhutl with a lattery of sixteen uns he lb-regzard-
ing  thi  1  t riitiv  fir- p'ur,  I r Ie i i,  m. th- I mi  n t ldi,   r 1.1, itsed
forwa:r !  I :Ir pa      "  ro"  i  h 1U'au
B.1a:.  : rd.  .  ivir  the  i lir' *  f  hI    n.i sent
Fish' r',~ !: rd'. whib I, Lr I wit in r.tuewy' v the Fed-
erals. ao I Ir e then ack. F-h'tr'%s I ri :ale wai v  rdered to
miovs t w .r 1- 1. :,ctrei     nI"I  4nd i .trutl ~ :'n to Gem-
eral s .sto N d th  t  U' th'.. n"       adnow
broud- : p thlir r :        *.    l th-y 3:1 nI.t   e jiateau
and tr !t -ur th: i. I            Iru                 ttery.
upoin  : .   : 4:in                  l nIickett~  c )U*  bat-
teri,11,16n -1h414id 1 "! th h
TI  . it .I . h.  .  h ' 't     up  ai  att           uder
rifle cn~.add-eMioIa                                        l
hazarI    I;t the  b ,           Ir m  ik It  tuned
against iMI 1  I el I alt #r  w: h  - I il'  i I  thiat In- a  T n4nt the
comm .n:i'z :fficer was ki.h I. tw' gu' .. lrn anti d. and a number
of the : '-ra~ wounded.-
Jchon  t  nw made noth'r attempt   r r i'u the phteae
ing thv e i of the 4th North I' r .Hoa r '. et. L ntr. 1nl the men
to rally r, nd him. for th-ir , ' h r. iind the' i- ly '.: in which
they er- ingagedl. Ml~ow. H. at the same time. c'ns niv'1 'f the
importance ofholdin': the ground the Union tr'ps hal so rarely
18


138

STANDI&amp;H.

gaieodee       pCocrns Irish Regiment. As the line swept
along Meaghier criedA out, a, Come on, b.oys: you 've got your chance
at last," and the Irishmen, throwing away their coats and knaps-racks
reVpelled-, furiously. Johnston's char(-re. The Irish r-rimenit waS
closel1 ftlkwed tiny the 2d Wisconsin. the igifdanders. ai4 the-, 13th
-New York. The C*suIdict was terrible. Hand to hand1 tht'-' ftu
ti n to) Richmond" was the Fet-deralisattlux-crv.  urt" Jf
Davis!" 4s'uteil back the Itsetis.            iur    ~  ef
What p-nr cant dvswribe the furirf4 that iisnlaught, the i#:A~ at
det-4s 40tsf valkor 41fleither side-. that "strt.'wo'.1thte grr.1uris!With it
hevre 4 s i.ral lIe-~r. 4' N Strth 4 ars 4irka. au'1 '4; fenetra&amp;I B.irit II of
Gt;ifria tf#11. xdi nuiliftii  by  tht. os~ssf tho-ir  r uas.r  te4q
fesieratcs thrvw thrsevsWith r*,d. 'tild,1t  e trcs' up10,1 it-eF f.ese'ra
trL 1s b t thL V  al lattIsy  w Itli"!'4"I  t he'    wk. and 1 Ist-ti,or ?'",
W4 )tilsfi V l. IItiltir  :9r, eu tMl.  _At  jIe''tjjthi  r   5eI:, WafI iii
Oflt i '  L'ssl..l   '  rrlvil  ti   r.  tr tr r .;  nTi 'l's \L'.Ar
au1 I.  ii''lit.   III: n r lho  I  Is  ihe'tr  i t s r w tii  h  t   i.  i
1rt6i~~     I IkI 'lurn ,, wzz lt ~rt,. -irsi't'.  i riI,  i 1t
with  -,oill1i i  Oil "--tV  1",  1t Y #*dolsrtl  1110%  tihit  it  "1sjj r# I.th. n
tell  I~p%-,I1M'i  t,  [is'11   .sths.-r.i~t  t r  x %  *t  r,::
gresini  1: 'iriit ssri we'ary  v~ss  :ti rat, with
thsir't  hali's11  till  u Nt ltiloM  v inler T  .i  t.s  .1111%  ::.  v wtre
DO s mat~h fr n~l  r   :' tntrtir'1 'jsr1.      T i.-~
mrat. o n ott r:.  ,f tilt,   L
W hIi.' t.  s',,'rt#st  w~-o  ra sri.  an  :s'lVV 14"P'e W4' 1!:1 ' '
enem   a!  s..~  t~si r  ' Is I D("in.  arifil  4 s'rsralk  JackIwh
hAr  siup. i  sur  T'1t10 I   1,41114I'  W'vi'  Tnw  :0it - it'T t .I--
clIazoo.  1   A rL A' r:  a.!I n  I  try  itI i  1  o b Ir  irs  is hill ,'S1#  I  '
away  ili t, 41' ' tw t s Nk'.  x 1.1 %oda -i e   r r.  T e Ii'itFI  T.  I 7
oli"I. t Pha  K  I',1 ~s Ii"h.."h'tu. r hn       '$  zt
aut .  r1   An      ' 41 t  hi- shoiohs' tr:11t%] 't
an tIi il h~r                                            4 ;.Ir :. s U K  . 's:  i ''~  ~ i  A~
h d . h  t r ( I   A t i  w h s 'r '    s  th  4s '01  ; Lrc e  'r Ii .   t L '
thi ke   ai  i''  s' 'e  tr'  i  s I s~ rs i s.l  C lsli4:.  I.  tn
that  -.tiff~.  jrizist  fi  nr  V'w I i  5 Isin  a  1t I s r,  'i  5' n  is
cho.   k I,,it  i  w  1",1  stie  'f .111lith f 4.or k'.  i, i  moon  e\ il.  y 1   h
heIt  1PAlis:'~    ', 4-A!"!r           tl ~'     t  s" '
w t rr huiris  i:K  h'n    I  sk    If rr   Aels -k      s'll
have  s'ris-1  Ywith sj .ro-r  j,-jjiii' rti it  '~ n.  h t, o  ers K Iv ythe
sea'h  !,r,,1it ftin.  r  w   I ittlso.Atleii  wa. tplJsaco's or  1o ir,.
At  liii-  s h t ! 4' 1  .   ,trt :sni -shilv oehar..r'es l  1,. ?h h''al es
thti- s~Si  ary. witic -,X    tr3jArtv  lk #or. me! sir .  ak i  s  'iv

STANDS

139

In another part of the line, Longstreet had been ordered to ad&amp;
Vance ag-ainst the U nio'n forc-es. From a m&amp;-;ked battery they
opened4 a destructive tire upo)n his trkoossps, and swept down. whole
rnks upon the bkesed-staiued- field. The Rebels friom behind, made
despe.1rate by the hess of their cLrnirad#'*,?, ru-shed wilsily forward to
ave'ngc them -.Itut as they crsessed the esperi plaini in trsjt of the guns,
they irn turn fell stricken tt.o the g-rssunil. and at last. t-hro-wn into dioi"
o~rder. they dt:4i ansi wtere 1surstesl by a squadron stf Unj1to-4 States
cavalry. I'inrtune st-4mi'ed issw 'eclarin:r in tavssr sof the Uni~ou Army.
McDe swel sbsered the fatiguedsi state' sef the 1sstl.ansi sordered a
gs'nerAdadvance upon their v .rwl~ut liii'.  hi  c 'iatds ;we-re car-
ried out with skill and alacrity. is'rie'ralshLeiritzslniars anI! Burruside
charged ilfuriously upon Jqn shrists 'tm'S we'ary trtspq- Titos h't was
terrih~hsnc       faint with ulhaus tuis. lot, J hssssl'win  a
M"ilt 11 eitoIs w  lirt6violus  this  grs ,sc1i wa,  i  h'  ''i!1  tt s-
and  r  i'll   t hlmi l f at  .i 111,-;' 11t-11 t4I'M#,#  &amp;Sa  alit   W ere  the
IV [eii" ' t t~i rI  u.  helit  o. ttim '  5 Win 'l    it'I1 w is  -,,  1I t sf l I  a k
U 104 1m  the  ir  st.trt'.  a si  flt  I -, ' iI '1111Ae*'ti' 1  Its I w  r I  6h t  at
~''  i.:'rwiiti  K srisv  Sr1jtj. 1totnsjse'h            W "  c l  s  sssl
6tintsuintr.I"" ralistI at theirbl rwA     1     ~t t!siminke
rs..earun  tme trn1'liht t V t   vI i st tss' ir-t Miint'esta
re'nitlst   ii 1A4 all  1s1pV10.rtui,,ity  st "Ull  i t- .rI r  Os s ur  ld
fit A  .o'srs  Hl , I &amp;  t.si 1141s 11 i'  olt his  i  r -'mrtrs' aist
wasIql ,Is  t.ti'5 ii gtril all w4twobslns.Hl tA!, Is1..tita~eaIA
ruslis t 1 r  rl.wavi  Uwititwi!.! snis' tY sLinhtIsfJ
wa~~~~~~~ ?t1. r' lt i'1.1'Trhrsh  [is  slrht hss\ 0lailsiel Is
...sst~ji.I t I~P. 5s''i i  Wth ateaitPar1"  st!' Is h l'1-wsd,
It~ en ;   iliiIi Pr s l.I'kjih;            1?   st,,rainks-. and
A4 it niariy a lstttt'tisnithee i lu  If.
%;s  gll1 4 lY  ast      I n'': *:s  ht  T11en -r.  .&amp;  yc T"is Iit wa-  the
tr~~~~ s'rs  s  ry  ie ~''i  ti a
At tiuo ist Ns't. Bs'aUrs'g'r Iri  ik       ttailik the Union
stirrt 4 np  hi- Tisi b1  :'a 1  si *lvf      s' ;  i'Ir.ss'
heat"  i  Iitus  II '.s Uin    it.  Raly  1 ' .  soctr
mins iraissi We'  ma' i  willtil-1 n .L
T h e  h n iro f i wvi      l s h . u ' t ,  I  1  i.1   ' '   ~   t " 5   " ~   s
great w~s"' t hefu ry  fi inY te'jtra I I'kt    t ,?55jIksa&amp;inrir
teortuu''  I'  their s614ts.  But 1' 611%,11 (-,.1  -1  .as  '..en
wit st'"ss~i fet hi'~lin  gi. i: ws"18~'.h'I Ltrrj UIi'tT1Leio n

a

*A
:
; V


140n a   n.

nwrao.                  14

"1There stands General Jackson like a stonewall, and there he wE
conquer or die."
"Stonewall !  Stonewall! " shouted Harry Talbot, as he made a
furious rush upon the enemy. The men felt their strength renewed,
as this tribute to their idolized General reached their ears, and a
furious hand to hand contest ensued.
As that hot, bloody day drew to its close, and the fortunes of the
Confederacy became darker. Harry still showed a spirit and deter-
minatio In that nothing could daunt. His face was pale with exhaust.
tion, but his eye flishted with the confidence of victory, and his
powerful uie could be heard by his men. ringing cheerily above the
clash if arms.  Whenever his bay horse appeared, the Unioin line
wavered f4-re the impetulksitv of his attack.  Heintzelman. and
Hunter were wounded: Ilaggerty, Slocum. Wilcox, and Cameron,
fell tghing bravely.  But the Confederates could not have stood
their grf1A much linger.    To the ceil eye of Jacksen. a retreat
seenel irevitalle unless somE relief came to them. At this mlomient a
ball shattered Harry Talbot's thigh : he was tenderly raised by two
of his nwrn. brol lerne from the field. Seerroew and dismal struck the
remnant tt the brave briAle: Talbot wounded, Jacksosn might be
the next t. fall. - when hark I a joyful shout rang through the Con-
federate- Army.  Kirby is mmin .'" a thousand voices repeat the
glad r.   It disheartened the Union soldiers, and gave courage to
the R e h -1 s
Harry. rouseil from the faintness his wound had produced, raised
himself, ,aw th  'cAiin 1f that triumphal shout, and a happy smile
lighted ip his pale face. -- I knew w'e would drive the invadelrs from
Virginia. he murmured : and then his head fell back lifeless upon
the rourh arn that supported it.
It W I' " it..l t~ true. The Rebel reinforcements. so ardently
longel    y f  v iheir 'i'b-rs, had arrivcid. two little brigades of fourteen
hundred I v. wh    thrwinz themslv     4$ upn the fank f th.- right
Wi n  ofIthi Enn a   . actuallyv put it in the p ositikoen wh1. h. ac-
cor,114...% i  I  Cth  p! 14the  bo ittl . itit- intended  to  plaoe  the  left
wing of th - M el. But -til th.O Felral treps- mi;.ht iint  been
withdraw' i - rler. h £  tI vOn the unitfrtunate mistake-S4 f the mit ring
taken        a th, r,     r advance of the battle. tho rizht and
mid' r. i 4              . 1mer Tylcr. h I .:In forwar I I vond
the IB '    pi  ie*n r lS ihen k' psit ien wh ih hi il r' mlined
til          LaeIL
-           rn. t mnerely b l thle Fcerat tr'p p
th   ±'       - n .                   1-9rr't0 T1elb i'4 the chicf ch 11!l of
cn0' -              11mI ,I1 and pr f1 iinT trains h i sr ewledl up
in b                      wh it y rI ij- it p t blank rann.
A II*th ''Ir dit, gni, ers return,i t. their
battr'    :r  I r rr  n!r just l froet  the anmunitio' wgons
Th                         t.  :ro;ire "wr      nd .ivilian
cell i   i                        l o th t rr r. pr-ading- c-afusi n on every
sid. .L Xetre en the pr airio. this dlisnraeceful panic extend.ed itself.
It e'auiht nh-tr r-. ,ie upn the dista't hills, and! terror-stricken. they
pcur-    i -nt the valy. tr un'plinig their comrades under their
feect. I i a- ,whi' re-i--ted. and tried i t st'i against the torrent,.
were tr II1 -o I w lvb th -ir own men. Rid~ea. bay.onets pistols,
haver-. i rril; --hexe-. canteenis, blankets. belts, and e'vercoats

-I

I

were thrown away, lest they should impede their owners' reckless
fight.  Drivers of heavy wagons dashetd down the steep road,
regardless of the lives they endangered. The agony of that flight can
only be understood by those who unwillingly were borne on in it,
brave men, who would have welcomed an enemy's bayonet, as an
escape from its disgrace. There was but one thing that saved these
from self-destruction, from turning to be trampled to death, with
their faces towards the foe, and this was the thought that they were
routed by n) foreign enemy : tht- valor and skill that had put their
boastful army to  ight, belonged as much to their nation, as this
cowardly panic.
A mile west of Centreville. stretching across the road, was a firm
line of men. who lmoked with woinler en their flying comrades. This
was Blenker's regiment.   Steadily they kept their post. giving
shelter and protection to the di.*rderedl mnukitue that tied to them,
checking a charge from the Rebel cavalry. and thus preventing any
further pursuit.
In the mo-an time. a far diforent scenic wa- taking place at Sudley
Chuitch. By Dr. Magruler's orders. th-S--eats were remeeted. blankets
spread upon the floor, the altar tittel up as an operating talle, and
soon the little building was tilled to eortliwing. with the wounded
soldiers. A carriage-hus, barn, and dwe-llin;. hard by. were used
for the sa.tmae purpose. and ithn the:lbullances were unloaded in a
shady grieve by the side of the church,
Among these woun lel E ward unsied himself. putting water to
parched lip , givin;:e erdiak. andandndaging the severed veins and
arteries of thoecse whio waited fr the suren'ds aid. But while doing
all in hi- power to save life, he did nobt forget that his duties lay
chieflv with the dying. His clear voice. mining with piercing
shrieks and irroans, could be heardl imploring .;-d's mercy feor some
poor fellow who was breathing his last in hi-. arms: aned many a
sinner's harl-iess and profanity melt. I away. anti he became humble
as a little child. as he listetel to) th se tender. -upplia j tones.
An ambulance had just been unloaded near him. when  heard a
voice which semed familiar tee his ears call out, - Water, frXGOd's
sake, water "   lie filled a c-anteen. and hastened to the wounded
man, who emptied it eagerlv. and then looking up in his ace,
said -
By Jiminy, it 's our Parson !  I 'm despcrt glal to see your
Reverkete '
Mr. Tailet recognize! Da!  Hal wh , IV with a fearful shot-
wound in his side.
- My  pier  fellow.  i  y u  aff er  tmuch L  -'  a-ki d  E Iwiri  but
DanLv l   #al did not heed the qum-Itn.i
" - 1.0k here," he said. in a triimpih't t I. # n"ver b t go it,
thigh that larned sheet we-nit -traight tbn ' "  .
Mr. Talbot looked, and there, Ivil it i  "d. whe was fast
oozing away, was the riddled! da4. f th- 1rt  innesota regnient,
still tightly grrasped in his It-ft hand.
"Lift me a bit, if it ainit too much tr a ie. Parson : i'm bound to
count these here holes, before my hanice is up
Edward lifted him as gently as possible in his arms. Hal's face
showed thce agony this change of position caused, but he stilled his
groans with an oath, lest he should grieve his kind friend.

140

1


rTI SH.4

starDIsu.

" Your Reverence will have to help me ag'in: I can't see as plain
as I used to: there 's sand in my eyes, I guess."
" Let me see, this big hole must have been a cannon ball, these
two grape shot. and one, two, three, four. five, six, seven"
- By Jiminy! it 's seen hard fighting. aint it, sir?"
" Indeed it has, and been in brave hands. too."
W Where was I ' Oh ! hure. - eight, nine. ten, eleven, twelve,
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen bullet holess"
"Well; taint no wonder. since the dag suffered sgo, that I g4nt this
big hede through rme: it feels as large as all out dovrs: de y'u think
the doecteers can stop it up '!
I am afraid not : but vou have given your life for your coutry.
fourzht mue st bravely,
.  fought like all fury : a man can't d1o more in any  arr.
But I *ve' been an awful sinner, d. you thik  li#'re',s anev'1W
nit-A., Siw'ak --trai::ht out. c'4au.te I aint afeared to hear th- truth it
Reent. anld ' thoizh v..ur sin. be as as searl-t. they  h
white as .n114w.' ' We hav   at adv   t, with th' Fth -r.
Christ tie righteou, aind he is the prpi ti-on fr our sins : al
for ours enlv. but for the sins 'f the whlt, worl   'I'
' 1r] on. that prayer of v'urn did me a hvaj a' g0l ithe l  -
saveed u frm inrmurde'rin' JIm  owe.  I 'Ve ke . pt eut oreews041
aO'ot "in' then. andl I wanted birnehv to stttb-' dhwn   dr 'v,
straight t'urrow. and14 be a decent kind o ' man.  Ycu knw  l-
Liz. the Jaile'r's dlaughter. '
Yes. a kind-hearted. honest girl. and pretty too."
Pretty   I never seed such a pretty critter in all my bford 'hiv
Thank yer. thank ver kndlv. ,ir. for Vour good world 1 'd1 li'e,-r he' r
her praised byv toy bc.'ttrs 1 than -- well - its all ov'r btwe'' us n: .
and I must pealdle my v ..wit ''rc1Ane down the stream that I 'm 1 in:
Here    l h-r pie'te'r aking a dl.ttr.rreoty1pe fro4m his breast drippir:
with blelod): er leveree      6 wil  ive it tee her 'vour- elf. I kneow. .c Id
tell her-darm it. I nue'ed! r't le a~hitrnel tn it. -tell her. I die
a ightom he'r.  nd Ilrl trub'd his sleeve across his erv . an thlen
resumrW   li's rhe'ertul ten,. he said. -- IParson I ' , f1  a will.
irregular kid o  chip. biut 1 nr ve was a thief o'r a !ir. an  I n.ver
struck a I w freom Ihind t'a.r play'. allas hni mmtt1111. a  i
I'd livt I thr'ou-rh thui, w &amp;r. I rt-'k4en.dI to ,ncirry Liz 'aud d , ot
Mavb+ I   I w!H tak th. will f r the die4. .  I an rIrt.al. 21i
of a "hiver. l'rtv f r  -- Pi aren'
1-. 'wr Ivs pr -, r was  ver. IIal"' hea  h Id falb-n f. 'wari
Up   h   i.  e  : ! '   r  1 e  e nul, which  death  itself  e' . ! 1  r,0 t
te'rrtIv. h l n1,  T  I &amp;st ae'eunt.
I   ir  l  o..  i r tuf r &amp;'.  .  .dwarl  ar d  this  little  barnl  f  e  ,
c i. .I th-ir dlt  . 01nd when the last l'nison fVr#   ti.-l
frerm P' t-!. :1 tr-lp 'f tuart's cavalry surrounded. the eheurel.
a n    i h .-ma all  pri- onr .  But  the  R ebel  soldiers.  rreplcti
the t9 h'r g hic'h rna le thu''e rncn frng.'t their own safet in their
cane eef the w cunfel, i'nd dyic:. dil leet iintterfer'e with them until
"n md t iy ronin c. whle ineer.r4 came fre m hetadeluarters that their
sheoeuld be rge i' in ambidulainces tee Manassas.
flere. Elwer I he' trd eef his brother's death, and receivedl permis-
sion fromrr &amp;  mtnr'arr 1 after signing 'a pare.e to) take ColeRl Tab-

bot's body to Alston Manor. The surgeons who accompanied him
to Man~sas, after signing the same parole, were allowed to con-
tinue their care of the wounded for twelve days, when they were
dismissed by an order from Beaure ard, on the ground that they
were i)n-COimbatants, taken prisoners in the discharge of their duty,
Who might have escaped had they followed the example of their
felow-officers.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

I

A   e'j~nr.-vnT1  had passt'l. Clone-l Talbot had been laid with
full military heenters i tthe 1 uryin r-tcund near that little church to
which .1It hal s  yteriusly Iimtel.
Why i- it thkt. tee many mourners, a military funeral isA more satis-
facte'ry than the tateliet civic rites  Is it eCau' sie all those co-
Sai       wnn the strgglin        . an the'1e    lifeand+e
battib.-ticht ha%  th.ir fIundaticis in e'trnal truth: and when we
consigni the bAdv to the dust and the spirit to .G4d who gave it, a
military -funeral ' itlizel  for us the inner life. we .ove to remem-
ber hew   ur s.blir fought the goodi fizit .ani. though thdil
assailed. the wirld tempted, and the flesh was weak : though often
beaten lback. snetimwes woeunled, he never lost hope or courage but,
turniing te the contest, won at last t victoin? If so, the solemn
march that dies away in, the will wailcf griefan.d the discharge of
musketry over his grave, is a fit farwel1 ten hitf
Mr. Talblt had closed his lip, and l-t n4 -rt'ret fe r his  aeson
escape hit. )ut his bent form aned the tpnt nyl-halirrnxv  Upheri ho oface
show e' I  I ; nti rinZ.  The  me mt ry  eef t n e  advnnJf  t irse Iad cV w ho
filled the wil.- heu.te xwith his mirth. r  -t %acIentred his lad whi got
into lniy a ad wr'ape. but whie n'v r  rtrcu  his f dt behind a
falseh'l. e, r e" mpulelaimledl c1f its puin ihad entrcveld an etict torn out
from hi, fIAther"; he' rt. even thu;rh it' hal pr-Veel a traitor to all
that ftlr hel iinm t 'l'Iar.
VirLini  i hii  often  Ion  ge'd  to 'e  a  man. that  he  i mht gi av   nrylife
for th' Ce 'rif -'rate ctu e. P'cor thin,  erew lear e. ie many
others have  c int mt nthis civ wil wv r. Arv tundia rhere t tcmen,
sons wht. wihn t rrmp.    w e iin. ile.. ' tlunuei'r alict them,
bre'atht' their .mi eut with thanto r te   1 n'din .1outt :frtom
her i teuvi e'r--euce lei el a n~oetrr x1 nre ''ii'i 'c'cU"4g'e. to
her'an Ici rs ,hel .'i'rp.1 n      ane' 'il~rn iul their empty
hseeartu-  av t ' h - ies  and er h still  live  41n.troa i al e .w ith  unstea ly
step. thit rnd i of h emelv duties which the sul01   tint P+ f A stronga
On'e im Il, s, ay andpleaantlIpleasant.
But th--re were many moments whon X    eir ttini fcromttt herself, and
live I ii Itirry"4 prais#s.  She re-'iveul a Iettr from t . an
Jack-crn. speaking ef the discipline -larr ire-wrvetI in the camp. and
his daringl'hIe tie'ld: it was Spartan-lik -in icrevity. but ever word
told.  Bea * ard, too, wrote to her, expre'ssmig his sorrow for her

143

142


ST maND . O

BTANDIM

loss, two pages full of graceful flattery and FrenIch enig -ration-
Had h arry been le pedi Caporal hiiself he couldst ha   ire,
but to Virginia it seemed the simple truth.-
Euligies in the Southern papers and notices from frienld, poured
in upon her. It was evident the Confederacy did not neaUi a gallant
officer should die unknown, or unhnorwer.d-C
One morning as the clock in the hall struck four, Edwar.1 a w(ke,
and   nian ti thimk of the many chang y-.s which had take# ei.- since
he, a little child, had first istt: i with beating heart t tt  ['uni
old clck, and puzzled hi% p r litt b1 ikrain about tinw b  :ritv.
as he watched l the ship up  it. t Wing  ithfout hastea a, Inith ~ut
rest upo n it. blue wavs. h'inding  t  p impossilh-. h -  e and
dressede I him..If  Th first ruddy streak was j4!t apparin.:i th
east. which d-;~ned int purple. and glewel it' 'irn  a  i . rnge
as the sua:O  sl'.wlv  rose. floo lin   th  w  .-I[( I riz::a  it.
11 ow to- itif the early mor i:    t i." t b iught EL Iw  -- I is
like a new er ati on, lke arain reeiving th  earth fr n h r
Make'rW ly  .  W       Ih d I  ' SA: ,m  e  ithe sun rise 'A ar al!,
there ny yv r,,isre trout h than I am inclin 1 14o admit in b11 1  4
prot-erlbs th it C inneet Virtu. n;id early ri iI.: smyster i% ' :--ther.
But  facts    In  1I-ar  ..uT  the  i:I   the  inh.dtittt, 1  .pical
climates are thvays early rer I. a'%1 lI Iy nme,  a   a 4a as
those .f ed 1.  So  the 1 ru  it  mu11t lie  in It  liar  '.Lp  ,  thing
F r th  w E   rliln tfiriwr t .: - up ;  h  i 1  Tra  1 sn. fe.d
his stack. harness his temos. and1- reyv tk  Iin ie i  with the
frst light. is a virtuC. But for h  1-wrk. ther' mjust 1 enhine
or a co ort Jolt bfire. What sh4ul I :.in bI shaving:r hiz anailiv iI
the Lark. a:l pjokinrg alout the h o' whil- tii' servants w -resw -
ing it, but a "it face, a broken shin. and the character 11od gave an
early riser, l's  i eatly expresed,-

None but a spoon wound be so earl.f stiring.-

"So my ;.randmother was right : every man finds (t h grand-.
mother was  right, if  he  live   lang  ene :.h.  - It  s not te  :rttinig  up ,
but what you  410 after you are up.' ti.b sag. oup ld lad- v sed to
say. whe any one leased to her of arl vrisinl. She Ied her
morning nap. hut the rin; di i n  "t Aip friem her hands u ile she
slept. I w1ll re'memleer
11re C 1h ir I w I iar!l fr im hi. rv.-rir. by a loud s5bbinrI near
him.    n~    i i lv. hl hukken th  p ith te'the ste. 'l there
upon the d, ,r-:I sat .Jim, I  -lering e- r  nin thing whi, h1 he held
cloVy hu  up in his armas.
Wh it i"' it. my by  said Edward. laying his hand gontly on
Jim's shoale'r."P
It 's his'-n. Massa EiwarV 's:  anid ,hin mAlwIv lifted ur a
leather grautib-t, soiled an   'tor :-ho- drIppedl it it dav he was
home. aW ID)n has no nire  p o   fr I d.-dl 41 IN te. tok it for a
plaything. Everyting go on jess de sare as of my Massa Harry
war n't taooken away. Pars de earth . and the sun. and de rtars, an'
you, an' me', an' ebery libin ting in all creashun jess de same, but
Massa Harry hab gwine away and lefD his poor Jim behin".'
"But you will go to him some day, Jim, if you do your duty as

your Master Harry did. You know there is the awme kind Father
ready to receive you, when your work here is done."
Jim's face brightened for a moment, and then clouded over.
"Yes, Mass., Jim knowsdat, God bery good ; but de Lord say,
'in my Fa'ders house he hab many mansions,' and he'll put
Massa Harry in a splendid big house, wid a roof all gilded ober
wid de sun of righteousness : but when Jim cum, he'll pint to a little
house eber so far off, and say, - Jim, dat's your house,' and dough
it ' be a nice place enuff, whar de storm neber blow, and plenty of
powers and fruits, it wont be no hebben for Jim widout Mass.
Harry."
Edward could hardly suppress a smile at Jim's idea of the aristoc-
racy of heaven, but he gravely answered -
" You will find Master Harry needs and loves you in, another
world, just as he did here. and has a place in his mansion that
nobody but you could fill, Jim."
"Oh, hebben bless you for dem words, Massa Edward: you know
jess wat to say, to make de sun shine in' de bery cloudiest wedder."
Jim wiped his eyes, and went on with his morning duties of feed-
ing and cleaning the horses. Edward passed through a meadow
back of the stable into a wooded ravine, through which murmure:i
a ittle troutstream. This had been a favorite spot with Harry;
here he would lie in wait for hours. under the shadow of the willows,
fir a nibble from the timid little fish he found it such sport to catch.
But Edward was not thinking of the fish that hid themselves at his
approach, not even of Harry ; his little talk with Jim had carried
him beyond the grave into that life which death opens to us.
What memories of the past life shall we carry into the future? If
all were forgotten, our identity would be lost ; if all were remem-
bered, we should be too closely bound to earth. There must be two
memories, the one belonging to the inner, the other to the outer life.
All cares and anxieties connected with our existence here. passing
events. thoughts which relate to mere externals, even friendships
made by circumstance, having no foundation in real needs and sym-
pathies, will vanish in that full awakening, like the visions of a
dream. While all that has moulded the intellectual life. or given
nourishment to the soul. will remain: true friendship will become
more trusting and unselfish. true  ave more pure and ardent, when
the bonds of earth are broken. lie tok a note-book from his pocket,
and as sentence after sentence rat off the point of his pencil, he was
surprised at the clearness of thought, and glow of imagery which
enabled him to grasp and illustrate' what at first seemed so far of
and vague. A text might have b. .n found, and these sentences
expanded into a discourse. which would have made the writer
famous, had he not been unfortunately interrupted on the very
threshold of his greatness. as many of my readers have been. George
came up with a package of letters, which had just been brought by a
Confederate soldier. Inclosed was a kind note froa Jackson, saying
that these letters had been forwarded from Washington with others
by a flag of truce, under the idea that Edward was a prisoner at
Richmond, and were now by his orders sent to the Manor.
Edward looked over his letters impatiently:- there was none from
Minnie, and he wanted to go on wihhis writing. He read hastily
19

I

L

ig

144


147

STANDISH.

through one after another, making notes on the back of each. Thelast
was from Mr. Stone, Edward smiled satirically as he read it, and said
to himself, fool and coxcomb, how sure he seems to feiel that th
young lady will fancy him if he can prove a good character, respect-
able connections, and all that sort of thing! Nothing but a flat
refusal will cure his absurd vanity, and this Minnie will delay as 1ng
as possible. Young and innocent as she is, she will play the cat-and-
mouse game with all the skill of an experienced pussy. Poor Stone!
there never lived a more unselfish, or purer-minded man, high-princi-
pled and earnest too, a little narrow and bigoted. But that's ,v
matter: a woman who loved him would find a high pyramid as
pleasant to gaze upon as a wid '-spread laundsape. But whi the
deuce told him to write to me : he has plenty 4f relatives and friends
who know much more about him than I do. It puts mie in a false
position: the relation in which I stand to Minnie uake-. it impsile
for me to le his confidential friend. Could Minnie''
A red flush mounted to his brow. and he started up from the
rock upon which he sat. The pain was  -o harp he felt as if somv
one had struck him a blow. and involuntarily looked round to see if
those drooping willows that shaded the stream concealed an enemy.
But closer, much closer than the willow thicket lurked his f WIP
cowering in darkness, loving treachery am1 deceit, skilled with th.,
dagger and the bowl, ready to pierce the heart or poison the veins.
Fiend of Jealousy, once routed. never conquered, you have waitzd
until the handsome sunny face he loved so dearly, is frozen in death.
and the strong nervous arm that rested so caressingly upon his
shoulder is stiff and powerless, to fling your poisoned arrow at the onfe
little being whose love his aching heart can rest upon.
Edward now felt himself the fool and coxcomh he had just pro-
nounced Mr. Stone to be. This appeal to him. A man would have
thought of it: it was Minnie's plan of communicating, as delicatelv
as possible, her change of feeling. Or perhaps there was no change:
her love for him might always have been a kind of hero-worship:
girls were prone to this sort Of thing. But no. he could not believe
his own thoughts: M  ninnies tender brown eyes reese ace-usingly e-
fore him. Yet she might !ove him as a father, an elder brother, the
difference in their ages was so great. IIe did not know, he could
not tell : all was dark. His glance fell upon his note-book, and he
tore eut the pages he had been writing. crushel them in his handi,
and flung them down the stream. lie write of things unseen. -he
pierce the veil that separates the spiritual -)nd natural world, when
he could net even read a simple village girl ! The attempt seernf
blasplIemious. and he shuddere!I as he walked rapidly back to the
house.
How long the family breakfast seemed! Endless the series of hot
corneakes which Phif would bring in that morning. Then, too, the
old fellow had picked soime tame blackberries, the first 4of the season,
jet black. luscious. tenipting': they lay in a basket of snowy porce-
lain, and Master Edward mu'st taste anti praise them.
At last it was over. Mr. Talbot took up his newspaper; Virginia
busied herself with her housekeeping, and Edward was agusn at lib-
erty. He went to his chamber. took out his writing materials, spread
Mr. Stone's letter before him, and sat down to think. Wearisome as

the restraint of the breakfast-table had been. it had proved of service
to Edward, in calming his feelings, .and enabling him to analyze their
cause. lie saw that his jealousy might have no foundation, and
bamed himself for his want oftrrus u  t--    -th   k
all. to end this uncertainty as sooen as possible. He wrote a letter
to Mr. Campbell, assuring him of the respectability of Mr. Stone's
family and his own high character. and closed it unsealed in an
envelope. directed to the worthy Rector.
Then. after a few moments' hesitation, he poured out to Minnie
his weakness, his doubts. hIs jealousy.  ie confessed that he was
not string enough for the sacrie he had made at parting. lie
must have her faith ple-d i  to him. if she felt she loved him more
thai all the world. and . .ull. with-ut a doubt as to her own feel-
ings. pr mise  tbe hic lii wte"..
lie loeggI1d her to writ,- the moment she received his letter, if it
was tlt a  line. too relie v ,  boruI frTmrn  his suspense.  dIher feelingsIha
chanrod. if tim, hal tawu-ht her that in her tendernes- *o4 heart. and
lir willingness to give pa1inA. .lnc' had deceived herself, her eileee
should say what he knew her seoft little hand would find it sokhar to
write.  An acknewle: i .n-gagmen'ft must now exist      i
them. or all interor -e I #r;okn off until he could conquer his
passion, and pray for her happiness. even at the expense of his
own.                                 c
Iia state at the Manor hal een so much l. nzer than usual, that
neith-r Mr. Talbet n' r Virginia wert surpriseol when. after an early
dinner. he mounted his hersil. anhtitrned  hvlck's bead towards
Washingto.en, that there might be no delay in posting his letters.

I

CHAPTER       XXXVII.
EDWARD   parol  prevent        . - - the  1st  Minnesota
REn~irt p1aroe. pr. '      wfrk. hn' 5rht employment in
R    -it a.ain ' aworki two spitals was feared
to him.1   ane d t he :.   . irv.   ia   l uildin .  arranged  as
to hi .  ne wa  alaOOw nt  *:a te i  nmn1ji r. pritsided over
to give the greate'4 earnrt t1 pirs Dix.ewhse
tra  i dl  and i .kiful r'on  - s ati I  th ir  laers. that
trained 4v, iexprinc W r    i v   ttt ed to. as if he were
" a c h  i t G ! Jn ila d 1h ;  NV A W -  I   a -  l r a d h u m a ni t y ,
the  o nlyv   ie t  f thoir  4,,re.n tie r r T antl  humina t p
w,.ro  the  o u h I :  1  etI   t he  e tai0,  t   T flth e l: et  thip-
p o te  of  all  th is.  a dI  o H  h ay '  a  l e rip p   th t   h e r :  t th  o f l
Edward  T.Lllb t I ch  .Atr th A.  rp
bojws WeU111111 'Po bin! T)".o
lw irbl knowd bti iwe, w   ,d. e the shorter time in which he
Ed w vear   nwth  r  w  r.  he  e-4t  blol-ith  I  himself  at  the
fort. his positTn::t             ir      nough. The for-

A

to

LL--


srANDISR.

armAn Ifr.

mer Chaplain, a mild, easy tempered man,  been snubbed by the
hedsurgeon, patronized by the young doctors, scoded by the
steward and nurses into a typhoid fever, of which he died.
The fir aadvantage the new Chaplai obtained over his predeces.
&amp;-w, was a purey physicalOne. Il tall, manly figure, and the long
stride with which he passed through the close entries, ad down the
dirty stairs, gave the household an idea of the dignity of his office
which had never entered their heads before. Bt familiarty would
have soon worn away this effect had oet an incident occurred the
third naorning after his arrival, which placed his authority upon a
surer basis. Happening into the operating-room just s the chluro-
form had lulled into insensibility a row of patients, he found a young
doctor on the point of amputating Joe Hudiwn's arm, because the
label upon the bed ran thus: -

11

cGo4mo

" Stop! stopI here is some mistake! It is Hudson's leg you
must cut off; it has been shattered by a shell." id Edward, roused
out of his usual calmness at the danger the Maine backwoodsman
ran of losing one of his strong arms.
Dr. Blinkinsop turned round angrily: he stuttered, and his excite-
ment was an additional impediment to his utterance.
" Damn it, Parson! con - con - con - confound your im - im
im -" and the Daoctor stamped his fut--t in is rage at nut being able
to finish his speech.
" Impudence," said the Chaplain with a bow, coming to his as-
sistance.
"God d -n you    Mind1your own1)b-Is -b"'
"Business;:." and Edward bowed again. -Suppose all this is
understood without your taking the triubls. to express it, and let us
come to the point. I intend :o further interference with your pr-
fessional duties, than to prevent your taking off an arm where it
should be a leg.'
" I sup -sup--suppose I can read, sir."
" Can you ?9" said the Chaplain, as if'he had doubted the fact.
" If that s the case, this matter can be easily settled ; " and running
his eye rapidly over the rows of men before him, he saw Hudson's
label on Pat O'Riley's bed, and exchanged them. Pat, he knew, was
to hare his arm amputated below the elbow, for he had spent a great
deal of time in trying to reconcile the poor fellow to his loss.
Dr. Blinkinsop hastily advanced, as if he meant to turn the Chap-

his out of the room; but as he drew near, he probably saw that his
antagisthad the advantage in height and breadth of chest, for he
thougt beter of it, and said fiercely -
II - allow no one to ic - dictate tome but Dr.Hig
gins: he wr - wr -writes out his orders, and I - I- obeyt ;
and its none of your b - b - business, as I said b-before.
A footstep was at this moment heard in the entry, and Edw'rd,
turning round, addressed Dr. Higgins in his blandest manner.
"4Doctor, a slight mistake has occurred. Your label for Pat O'Ri-
ley got upon Hudson's bed; in perceiving it, and exchanging them,
I have incurred Dr. Blinkinsop's displeasure. The emergency of the
case must be my excuse; I leave the matter in your hands; and
Edward walked away, leaving Dr. Higgins too confounded at his
own carelessness to speak.
"6Damn him, he finds out everything !' muttered Dr. Higgins,
when the Chaplain was out of hearing. "Go to work, Blinkinsop;
what do you stand staring at me for? I can't keep patients insensible
for you and Mr. Talbot to quarrel over.
"4No, sir, but 1 - I, I beg pardon, sir, but I don't know about
Hudson, wh - wh - wh -"
"Amputate his head, of course." said Dr. Higgins, with bitter
irony. "If yours had not been so empty, you would have corrected
the mistake yourself. Such accidents,"' said the doctor, recovering
his setf-pos&amp;session. '" must happen sometimes when there is a great
press of work, but they should never go out of the profession, sir.
This reproof completed the confusion and excitement of the unfor-
tunate Blinkinsop; seeing him quite unfit for his work, the head
surgeon performed the operations himself in the neatest manner, for
his skill was equal to his carelessness.
After dinner, Dr. liggins eyed Edward wistfully, and then during
up his chair to his side, he said, with a swaggering air, intended to
hide the shame he could not help feeling: "By the by, Mr. Talbot,
I owe you my thanks: that little mistake in the operating-room this
morning - von know to what I allude -- might have - Blinkinsop
is such a fool - mi-ht have -ledI to some unpleasant consequences,
if  had not been for you, sir. Do you know I have find out how
itbhappened.                        -p, hnvuIl
aI ndeed".   ered the Chaplain, drilv: "I hope, then, you will
guard against i repetition.''o                     b   m
"Yes, as you say, sir. guard against it, and theoctor. becoming
more embarrassed, took out his ciuar-case and offered Edward a
cigar, which he declined. Th head surgeon then lighted oethise
self, And under cover of the sm ke, proceeded:e It wasal  the
confounded sines and sixes, sir. - so alike. .  -
labels first, and then wrote on the other side, and the nines and sixes
got upside down, but it wont be necessary to mention it out of the
house, Mr. Talbot?
"It certainly may not be," said  fward. rising: and it was an
plainly understood between the two menn ack antrc whade then the
there been drawn up between tem.r iggiknd witue, ha tfhis
Chaplain's silence depended  upon Dr-ign' utr       aeo    i
Frkotmthis day the deference which Dr. Higgins showed to the

149

;4
I1

148

.. wellow ifle etll~,

I


rADKSU.                                                                                              15

rANr.

lain'' judgment and wishes, enabled him to work a gradual
vement. Though the managers of the establishment were
efposed to all ventilation, a new window was cut in such a way as
to make a circulation of air through the principal wards, hy whose
orders, or at whose expense, was never known. The dirty, slip-shod
nuses soon learned to dread the Chaplain's satirical compliments,
and grew neater in their dress, and gentler in their ways, now that
his watchful eye seemed always upon them. The steward, to no
longer dared eat up all the delicacies sent to the patients, and though
a stout man, with a first-rate.digestion, he felt better, now that sote
check was put upon his consumption of currant jelly and blackberry
sup.

CHAPTER XXXVIII,

As all the clocks in the jeweller's store ve'r the way struck eight,
and as the little iucke. tfew out of the centre ine. the master-piec e
of Mr. McClaker, the     4 jweller. and as little Peter McClacker, swal-
lowing the end of hir b'read-and-Iutter bre-akf.st. ran out to topen the
brown 4hutters of the sheop windlowz. Eiward Talbot came down the
steps of the  united Me'tropolitari liet%%tpjtal. - fr so it was written
in black on a larg.re white beearl eve'r the 'detor. Now the Chaplain
of this great establihment Was n1e4)o x 'nC e.n, an Vet there was an
expression ab, ut the tie 'f his white neck-cloth. so scrupulously
clean and well starched. antd there was d itd'tinaIle S4nething in
the buttOn1ngl up of his sinle-breasted waiteoat of the Uhin'st black
broacith and the tittingr e1' his ui.ftrn. that gave him claim to a
certain tteesiastical dandlyism, which. tee saVtheleast.Was6effective.
Master Peter. or as familiarly call . IPte laMcCLacker. evidently
thought  e teo, for he stood for fully tie minut  leanin.r against on
of the bro'wai .hutters. with his eves ailn mouth wide epen, the latter
display:  .r od perpective thet la"'t ei  - et the bere-mentied
bread ani u'ttcr. watching Mr. .iibsfot a&amp;.. h14' walked down the street.
There wa.; uenie in elastiwity i his step[e. and the nornrngbreeze played
in so d.inty a w  ancng his dark curlyi hair, that his very back
produreda ai pim. harb-church etect, But when this same breeze
came rouriL and pud in his face, there was a hopeful expression in
his eyes anl a cetrtaim half-smile about his mouth, that interested it
to.such a e;ree in ii affairs. seapt'race that it was, that nothing
Would 1 - bUt it mut 1lw all the w tv alfrPennsylvania Avenue
with him, to the P)St Poffice.
Any letters for Edward Talbot
Ariy letters fOr Dr. Higgins ?
A letter was handed him in a great yellow envelope, directed by a
man whe. valuing the est of' his paper. thought it best to cover,  th
sundry capitals and flourishes, the p r'ius surface. The Chaplain
looked at the sprawling letters,,and the eught how badly they were

made; he looked at the yellow envelope, and thought how vulgar it
was, and then he decided he hated the letter and Dr. Higgins too,
and wished his conscience would permit him to throw it into the
gutter, it would be such a satisfaction to see it floating down in the
dirty water, falling in with all the refuse, and whirled away with it
at last into the great city sewer. But he could not allow himself the
indulgence,so he buttoned it up tightly in his coat-pocket, determined
not to look at it again until he got home.
It now struck him for the first time, how fearfully profane the hack-
drivers were, how many drunken soldiers lurked round the corners,
what a continual rattle the wagons kept up driving by, how glaringly
the goods looked in the shop windows, and with what a surly air
their owners regarded the passers-by, and altogether, what a nasty,
wicked, noisy, tasteless, disagreeable place Washington was. A
man met him on the steps of the hospital, and wanted him to come
up stairs and comfort a poor fellow who was suffering a great
from the effects of an amputation. He thought the man need not
have bothered him just then. and I am afraid he wished the soldiers
would nout always steud for him. when they wanted help. "I have
trouble enough of my own." he said to himself, as he walked along.
and flung the hateful~ letter down on the table in the medical room.
For all this, though. when he was once up stairs. and seated beside
the backwoo . ;man, whose pallid face and restless tosings showed
the pain he was ashamed to complain of, he inquired how he felt just
as kindly, real to him jut as long, and explained to hir just as
patiently, as if these thoughts had never come into his head. By
and by J1ev Hudson fell asleep, with one rough band in Edward's,
and his heal beht towards him on his pillow in an attitude of atten-
tion.    then the Chaplain softly got up. and withdrawing himself
gently from the sleper's grasp. walked down the room, speaking a
kind wf rdl here ande there. and at last sat down by pltor Pats -e0.
A rd  ch, vtr Honor. and how is a poor dli'il like me .to writetto
his wife' and childers. now that his arm is cut clean off at the
ilbow'd
Not that Pat could have written any better before his wund.
as Edward very well knew. but he was c'arefnl Tot to make any sug-
gestion  of  the  kind.  whil' Pat,  ditti . , hi'  un(  n'4cious  buls,
watchedl the Chaplain's :. - as it milved rapilly ov-r themafper. and
felt with pride that this wet part of the sac'rt'ce he had mde for his
adopted country.  When 'Pat's letter was folded and directed, the
hour had come for the hospital morning service.

u
11
-i

#1

I5 c

151


152

153

snI-a.

CHAPTER XXXIX.
A  atua] sights lose by repetition their value in our eyes; this
is a weakness common to all mortals, and Pete McClacker cannot
therefore be blamed, that, when he found, just as surely as hie took
down the brown shutters at the stroke of eight, there was the Chap.
lain coming out of the opposite door, he ceased to take any notice of
. No.r did Pete lose his appetite for his bread and butter, or care
the less for his marbles and mud-pies, because Edward's step was
now flurried, his face pushed and anxious, when he took his daily
walk to the post-office, while on his return he came along slowly,
looking pale and weary, as if from a long journey.
The Chaplain had been a little more than three weeks at the Hos-
pital. wben one morning he walked the street with so firm and deter-
mined a stride, that some of the foot passengers stepped aside to let
himepass, while others turned round and gazed after him.  Even
Pete's attention was arrested. He had indated his cheeks, and his
dirty little fists were raised in the very act of striking out the air,
when involuntarily they fell by his side; his mouth opened with
wonder as he thought, " Bully for you, Parson ; what 's in the wind
now"
Mr. Talbot passed rapidly into his study, unconscious of the obser-
vaon hedattracted, closed and locked the door. Now, then, he was
alone, and he would face the misery that he knew was in store for him.
Drawing out a letter from his pocket he opened it. It was as he
taught, one of thanks from Mr. Stone, thanks for Edward's letter to
Mr. Campbell, which the grateful Rect4or said had already worked a
charm in his favor.  Minnie must have received his letter, which
went by th same post as this which Stone had answered.
How often had he said to himself, during this last three weeks,
any certainty is better than the doubts that torture me." But it
did not seem so now . he would gladly have gone back to the one
little hope of yesterday. forlorn and faded as it was.  Le smiled at
his own anguish.  Manws heart was made for woman's foot-ball;
why should one rebel against the common lot:?
the dear delicate creatures are rolt str4)ng enough to toss about
leather stuffed with straw, but they can strike the liing quverng
flesh, a sure blow.           .
Then came the thought that he had given up so much for God's
service, - ho me, friends. reputati. n. reser-ving to) hims,-If one little
childish heart, and ni 1w Heaven grudged him that. But why blame
Heaven for his own stupidity aid folly.  Hie who prided 'himself
upon his penetration, hal proved a dolt and an idiot.-deceived by a
country girl, supplanted bv a country parsn. Then his mortification
died away in the anguish of his de'S'alatiOnr1.
All of us remember a smile or a to.ar that stirred us more deeply
than years of our present life. Anid though Mrs. Smith is as pleas-
-ant a picture of matronly beauty as one could desire to look upn
the bluish on her cheek has long since become a perennial bloom. She

i

n our changing our boots when they are wet, takes nwe
not travel without our nightcape, and yet we sometimes
heave a sgh over a memory of the past, a face that brightened at
OWr coming and grw sad when we said-good-by; reproaches that
counted a a loss every moment of our absence, and joy that nestled
in the sunshine of our presence. "Pshaw! what folly! " we ex-
claim, and find in our newspapers, our account at the bankers, our
well-arranged house and pleasant garden, enjoyments much better
suited to our time of life.
But the Chaplain was too young for these soli4 comforts: had he
possessed them, they would have been no consolation to him, as hd
paced up and down the narrow room. struggling with this new sense
of loneliness. To whom could he confide his faults, his repinings,
his strivings, - who could know all his weakness, and yet trust in
his strength ?  Not his father, whom he loved and honored; not
Virginia, who was as a sister to him; not one of his friends, though
they were warm and true (with his most satirical smile upon his
lips): not Mrs. Stone, the Rector's wife.
If any of our readers chance to take an interest in Edward, they
will probably feel the same disappointment in him at this time, that he
did in himself. Does a firm Christian faith, a fife of self-denial, prepare
one no better than this to bear a woman's fickleness ? Is this mean,
jealous, doting fool I now see. my true self, with gown and sur-
plice stripped off? Thackeray's witty sketch occurred to him, of
Loui ' le Grand in royal robes, with sword and sceptre, looking every
inch a kin, and Louis Capet. bald, thin, wizen, supporting himself
with his staff, and gazing with awe upon the high-heeled boots, im-
posing curled wig, and ermine-cloak, which, set up by his side, al-
lowed you no doubt as to which was le Grand Monarque, and which
the man. The moral pierced the Chaplain to the soul; all the ser-
mons he had ever read or ever preached. had never struck his con-
science so forcibly as these few pencil-marks of the great satirist, re-
membered at this moment.
He turned for help to the books upin his study table. Here were
noble aspirations, words of faith and aretness, records of spirits
who had struggledI. and not in vain. to rise above e arthly passions
but these could not aid him now. This lMttle must be fought alone.
Not in an hour, not in a lay could he hope f1' r victory: weeks of
fierce conflict must be endured, -a desperate wrestling of the soul
with God.-

I

CHAPTER XL.
Rrwozs of the fashionable world sometimes reached the United
Metropolitan liospital, and through a friend's letter dated Saratga,
Edward heard of the sensation Rosalie U ppermanr was m Kig there.
The writer seemed fairly bewitched with her. No matter what sub-
ct he began a paragraph with, Miss Rosalie came in before he could

W,


14AMsH.            1

bring it toa clse; she wasboth the burden and the chormsofhis
song.
One day an envelope was handed to the Chaplain; it contained
this card.

The date was omitted: but this did not surprise Edward, remem.
bering as he did that it had taken Goethe several years to persuade
Bettina into) a perfectly'free confession in regard to her date; nor
did it require taany minutes for him to decide that the present must
be the time understood by so ephemeral a creature as Misc Rosalie.
With the pale., stern face that he had worn for many a day, but
with some diutterin.rs about the heart, Edward kncked that same
afternoon at 16 Willard's.
" Come in," said Mr. Ipperman. in his most querul 'us tone.
The old gentleman was standing before .the I"oking-aass. with his
hAt in one hanl, while with the other he tugged upon his limp shirt-
collar, and triedI to impart t4 it .some of his own vigr ;foor though
he persuadted hiilif he was a great invalid, to others he looked the
picture of green old age. The Chaplain saw at a glance that he had
coJ.meI' too %kon1 for Mi.s Rosalie: the flush upon her face was some-
thing more than the soft b.lush that would have greeted him a few
moments later: but to her uncle his appearance seemed a relief.
The greetings over, he turned to his niece. and said -
l Really, this shirt collar IlPes not lO'k fit to go to Dr. Jollup's, and
it 's the tiirl to-day. Wat weath r: I fee! as if I were between
the feather-Lwds 'if a wat. r-.ure estabLahmernt. The walk might be
too much for me : so, in- MNr. Talbot has coni  I think I will defer
my visit to the PDet)r' until to -morrow, -hey. Rtsali'  -
"As you pleae. sir, if y1-  think it will be safe : but veu know
you have taken your last pill."
The old genitleman's fat clouded over. but he said in a loud tone,
as it t'' reassure himself-
But I have the Ir'ps. R  ali. - I havce the drops, child : and the
dr' p- with ut the pills may d( f or a si;le night."
'Dear Uncle, the chambermaid threw down the bottle of drops
and broke it, this morning."
" The devil take her. and yiu too: Excuse me. Mr. Talbot: a
man must swear sometimes. And why could n't you tell me of this
before, child ? "
-- I have just thought of it, uncle."

2Jd, i6.
Jarly(2/ t

" That's the literal truth," said the Chaplain, Sou oece, for -Mr.
Upperman was a little deaf.
" The deuce you haveN " continued the testy old gentleman.
"Confound your coolness; you knew I could not sleep without
them. I beg your pardon. Mr. Talbot. I am obliged to give vent
to my feelings : it would be suicide, my dear sir, not to do it. I
live, as you know, in constant danger of apoplexy, and an explosion
of this kind is a great safety-valve.I
Here, the old gentleman blew his nose violently, as if he hoped
this would also prove a safety-valve.
"Fortunately." said the Chaplain, with his satirical smile. - I am
one of Pharaoh's lean kine, since this is an indulgence my pro-
fession would not allow of."
At another time, Edward would have offered to go to Dr. Jollup
in Mr. Upperma-n's stead, for he really pitied his vexed and heated
state : but, to tell our readers the truth. though the Chaplain was far
from confessing it to himself, the ti'-I-e'Ie so much desired by Miss
Rosalie, was irresistibly attractive to him. also:- and it was a relief
to both when the door at last closed upon Mr. Upperman.
" Do vou blame me very much for -you know what . ad Rosa-
lie looked up with one 'f h-:r lseeching. bewilderin.. glancesinto
the Chaplain's face. as he stvod with f-lded arms by the siet  9fJthe
sofa upon which she sat.,
"For bearing fal'e witness against the chambermaidNO:it
was very wron;. certainly: b ut - an1 Edward, gazing dowa upon
her, did not w'onde'r that his senses were imtoxicated awd his con-
science lulled to sleep by her beauty.
But what     asked Rosalie. wi, reading his admiration in his
glanc,. was already  blu hing  in  ariticipatin  f a co tnh pinelot.
But - I f.rgt what I was saymi. te          a withat mithievous
smile) I forgave y u  cause I  1w v u wante  - tht willneeit
do: I rust try agaim :-because y lu saw I watr It,.bealone with
you.
"y ow incorrigible you areand Miss Rosalie made a gesture,
as if she would box the tall Chaplain's tar!. c. uld ;shetut reh
them.
"There. do it now." he saidi, bowing hi t my 1. wn up n the little
white hand that threatendI him  it may r  v my t dae .     u
I can't                                      dare  to. on
have such stately way.   Arth ur. Pri'ta
Duke of Fair Oaks. was .thing to you.
"Come." said Elward. seating hin4elf on the sofa by Rosalie's
side.
Come what?"
Come, tell me  everything  :we   a   ooali  rprUhtime :  e in.a
" About ,arattga. do you meanf   an      in rep  tOspeak
of her conquests  which  wo 'lIi  t h  1  --tele io   in te  tflling es
No." answered Mr. Talt. impatient          m  of Minets
and all my old friends there."hrbo              hnloigu
Rosalie potted. an i ravelled out her sasb  -o te  ooigu
saucily, she said -          M   Vm    ruh     pt   odn o
" Do you remember the news Mrs. Van herhup' tote Londots fo
the entertainment of Peg Woffington and e  ubn'    te   uss

I

I1

155

154

wrAn-s-.*


Me is very si   .Old Ponto is dead; Fany has a      t, a per.
feet beaty, too; Aunt Peggy has grown so savage that no one
dares to cross her threshold; oar old speckled hen hatched out a
brood of ducks, and their eccentric ways killed her; John Fairfar
has another child "
"The thirteenth, is it not ? I am not sorry to be spared mywa
visit of mingled congratulation and condolence on these occasions,
for when I intimate that Providence never sends a mouth without
tbie means to fil it, I am always afraid of the retort the Irishman
gare the priest under like circumstances: 'No offince, yer Honor,
but shurly it sinds all taie mouths to me, and all the meals to yer
Rivirince   These are doubtless very worthy members of the parish,
but to be frank with you, Miss Rosalie, there are others whom I
value more."
"Miss Campbell, for instance," said Rosalie, tauntingly.
"Yes," answered the Chaplain, in his sternest tone and without
wincing, though every nerve thrilled with pain. "What can you
tell me of Miss Campbell. Is she engaged to Mr. Stone?"
Rosalie. embarrassed. "Yes, I believe so, --n6, not yet, I think,
-but soon will be."9
Miss Rosalie, speak the truth: I am in no humor to be trifled
with-"
If ou don't believe what I say, I won't talk to you any more;"
and she turned her shoulder upon Edward.
The Chaplain did not seem at all hurt at this, but he sighed
wearily. as if he felt how hard a task it would be to extract any re-
liable information from the little coquette at his side.  Then there
cate over him such a longing to know the worst, that he found him-
self speaking in a tone more earnest than he ever supposed he should
use to Rosaie Upperman.   Laying his hand on her shoulder he
said --h
" Rosalie. if under these folds of muslin, and hows of ribbon. and
bands of steel, there beats a human heart, you cannot refuse to
answer me now.    D)o y u honestly believe that Minnie Campbell
loves. - Pshaw ! what do you women know of love. - do you believe
she is pleased with Mr. Stone's attentions, and will engage herself to
him?"
Rosalie trembled with a'ritation. and at last faltered out.  'I did
not believe it at first, - I wrpt it totease y tu': but -I do now."'
"'-The proilf. - give me -zorne proof.
Rosalie rse. went into hor chamber, which ajoined the partir toand
returnedl with a letter frorxs Minnie. *,he opened it, and pointin.g to
a sentence. rve it to Elward to read.
"You are wrong in 1pposing I no linger care to hear Mr. Talbot
raised. I shall always take a friend's interest in all that concerns
him.
"And this lash under the friend means, in a woman's hiernglvph-
ics"said the Chaplain.'- simply a friend, I suppose, nothing
" Yes." answered Rosalie : and she watched eagerly its effect.
Such a pallor spread 'over Mr. Talbot's face that" even his lips
became colorless, and trembled visibly. Flinging down the letter he
walked to the window : there was the dusty, noisy world moving on,

mTANNSR

regardless of what he suffered. f[low it jarred upon his ner'eT to se
this Perfect unconsciousness, this carplessnes hs indifference to
his fate.
He was startled by a low sob, and turning round, saw that Rosalie
had laid her head down upon the arm of the sofa, and was weeping.
Was it sympathy for him?  le bent down, and said in his gentlest
tones-
"Vhat troubles you, Rosalie?"
"I cannot bear to see you suffer -I did not think -!I will undo,
it  give the letter back:- " and she raised her head, and clasped her
hands as if entreating his forgiveness for the pain she had given
him.
Passion added a depth to her beauty ; her loveliness seemed to
penetrate through his senses to his inmost being, in a way it had
never du-ne be-fore, but he was very far from understanding the true
meaning of her words.  le knew she was fond of him, as fond per-
haps, a her nature could be of any one: her triumphs at Saratoga,
too, seemed some excuse for her power over him. He looked at her
without speaking for full five minutes, - but I do not believe an angel
sIliedits white wings by flying through that silent room.  At last
he broke the spell, took one of Rosalie's. hands in his, and said-
e bDo not blameyourself: yu have done the kindest thing to tell
me.   Y~u feel for me, I kntOw,  It would be a great comfort if I
could, entirely trust you. - if you were as true as you are beau-
tiful"
Rosalie did not withdraw her hand; involuntarily her delicate little
fingers seem to twine themselves about his, with a force that he
could nAt shake off.  If he had hoped this attack on her want of
truth woultI. bringi one of her usual saucy retorts, and release him
from the snares she was spreading over him, he hoped in vain. There
was a sad, wistful expression in her eyes. her lips moved, but not a
sound camne fri  them   she loked as if her life were trembling on
the balance of that moment; her attitude was so .graceful and sub-
missive, that. ha I the Chaplain believed his s-ul's salvation depended
upon his resting the temptation. he would not have helped what he
did next. Stopping. he kissed Rosalie upon the forehead, and then
afraid to trust himself one moment onfrese.zedahi hat and
be~ltted from the ruo'm , a kc. wardly an'l und4ignified way. to say the
least. for a  cler oyman  ti  ik v'e  of a  paris-hioner.
She sat without m,.  ving rfo r half an hour, pressing her hand against
her  forehealta  where  Edwar's  lipn sem edttier ti  have  Scorched
the smooth skin: and then she gwt up. with the face of a w rman who
has played her last card1. an1 lost it, and went into her chamber.

I

m

157

Sra"m.

156


158

STANDS.

CHAPTER XLI.
Ar twelve o'clock on Sunday night, October twentieth, three
hundred Massachusetts men were mustered on Harrison's Island.
ard crossed the Potomac in three boats. which altogether held
twety-five at each trip.  Backwards and forwards plied the little
lotslout it was nearly four o'clock the next rninfr, before the
brave band were all assembled on the Virginia shore.   IlaVin
plassedb down the P4t'imac about Sixty rods. they reached a bhuff.
whch rises a hundred anl fifty feet abw~ the surface of the river,
-alloe  Ball's Bluff, ard finding an open field on the top 'of it sur-
r".undled by wodb. they halted there until davb reak, when ther w. roo
joiued by another compranv of Massachusetts'solier~
en  object, o tis rn inighit xp edition was to take a Confi..4rate
encampment, rep, rted1by vcoouts toI boe a mile istant fro 'm th. river,
and ascertain the position n ant fore-w4 of ithe Rebels on the right towrtfs
Leesburg, and on the left to wardIs th- Loe-urg and  nmu pring rout.
hAda$ybreak. pushing on towarts Le'esburg. there' founol the scouts
had been deo'eiv bIty a line of trees on the orow of the slope the
openings through which. in the glimmering light. l4ked lik h a li'i
(of tents. IHaving reoonniitr-ot Leshr  without st-oin anvthiri
of the enemy, the commanding officer oltrinid to remain longer
the Virgimia ile of the river and sent for ro-infooroements  More
companies of Massachusetts tr oop..s crossed over too their comrade
Vand at two o',1cliock (,en#eral Baker arrived with thle Tanxmmarvrey
ment, and joart of his fown riaer But. in  the  Tmmany or  -
had not heen idle.  cree:we  l bythe thick woods. they ha I ao1n. -
oed in large-r anti larz.er numb r  until the Union tromips. but six-
teen hundret. wore surrounledo by tive thousand Rl ls  They heldl
their ground mt resolutely. hiarzing with a spirit that mat. th-
Confederate line waver aril fall to ck : but tre.h tro op, were brn uht
up to opp o-e them. ant wh it h ope coulI tIr&amp; b ,f or -i
a oint %luch t'rful le y 1- ,w un uny nol- lives mriiht the -av
lbon savelI. how many b'rave~ men up trw'I the hi orro r~ oof imrir wriniwt,
badtpro p r m ins wit trainsp ortatiown b.-o'n pr .vid I, ant r'iinfrc ~
O)ffiwrs ant m.on fou..ht with a odevotion worthy of the cause tio
er  ervin. tnd 'lit I barju intue upon the sa3-r' hnessw of pri-at
soorro w I e adl make my po en bright with the gallant d''dof a i
s p   t e s,  n o i  h wi'      Vho  t el  th a t  l id -h
Thor  w ax4  wn', . vi                  r in  y  ars.  b uit  w ith  a  m'ian'  tro n:  w  I  n''r i.
ing hi an. w  'irrw ilib th nl1et wtives. h  vor h 1if'e
to i.vonntry . Tha.t i ty h-- ourrendered it. But loot ri t die  ho 
1  ovo  4  hm  th in k  th -  wiir with-  a  m z le "s 'o ne   Hi  hero  .5i n !.  i
I   f itri  it ~ l  lm .  L p re  ' btr: te r ,  still  live  in  h e  h e a rt.  ot f  hi s
c'o niitr y  -n.  la  in  them  to  follow  in  his  fo1st e  t
At t  'our o '"1ock  in  the afternoon . Genera Btkar fel at the  head  of
ie  o h r I. pieredl  by  a  um bler  of  bull ts  the  " m mranwl   w as  as-
sume  yol itnk Ctoggw II. whc seeing that further rsistane was

STANDURO.                       159
useless, gave the order to retire. The eneny, pursuing the Federal
troo  , poured a destructive fire upon them from the edge of the
Bluff, which commanded the bank of the river. The largest boat
too heavily loaded, swamped fifteen feet from the shore. Some of
the sobliers threw their muskets into the river, and saved their lives
by swimming to the Island, some floated on logs, while others con-
cealed themselves in the bushes : but the larger number were imme-
diately sirro unded by the Co nfederate force, and taken prisoners.
lHorace. who had come tiut unscathed from the thickest of the
fiz'ht. no ,noner heard the order to retire, than collecting all the men
under his command, he gave permission to those who could swim to
take to the water. Calling to the others to follow him as rapidly as
psible. he bI# then up the river out of the way of the murderous
vollevs the enemv wtre pourin, down from the top of the Bluff.
Viwp reaching an ld mill. lora'' halted, and seeing a mulatto boy
throwing plobbles inte the mill-race, he beckoned to him.  The lad
appr1arh I Collonel tandih with an easy, saunterimg air. which was
peculiarly aggravatin-g under the circumstances in which the little
party were placed.
HMurry up. hb.oy  Deuse take you, can't you hurry !  Do you
know  of any bat''albout here which we can use to cross to the
Island '".                                        -      i
"Nrothing adequate to the exigences of the occasion, sir, replied
the unruffled vouth.
Horace laugrhel heartily. in spite of his perplexity : it struck him
he had met the first cousin. at least. of that famous New England
DarkV. who refused an invitation by regretting. that circumstances
repugnait to the acquiescence of the invite, reluctantly constrained
him to dec#4line.
h  X dr- not so particular as you seem to think : we should be
thankful for something inadequate, were it in the sl'ape of j&amp;bot.
You   i   know of one about here ;get it for us, and you s
well pail for yur trouble.'"
If it w ol I iot 1b tr passing Upon your condescension to
invite you t, pr olon your Lrotena!e as far as the mill-race, I could
design nito tl Your notch. a Saiken skiff, which  -
Ln: before this man1y s1Ied zeatenc  was finished Standish
was at the mill-race. giving r'ers for racing the little boat, and
hanti1ki..It toth1ie ri ve r.
It  wa-  in  a  leA n d C I litio . requiring g  constan ba i '. lut large
enou  h t  h  1. 1 tive pe.r%  nz. and  our hero  disre;:arding th' entreaies
of hi' men. that he w)uldl first secure his owl safety. superiite ni'hd,
revolver in hazel the emlarkatioTi f each boat s crew. le't some
false alarii. or sealih impul'-e of selbpre ervato. m:ht sw tip their
frail bark. i0dl endanger the lives of all 4h t1 waiting pon
the river- lank, watching the slow progr~  thei too th. dislrd
arid its miiore rapid return. ho wxpecteo i dac momen  -  d t h e.,lritle
by the .eemy. But an h our had passol in *ewurity ant te lit
boat w ea onr its Lasot trip to the Virginia shor'. when th arpretn
of arfle ran: through the air from a neig.hboring thckt.-n
Colonel Stiikh fell to the ground. A moment after, a coomivof
sharpsh etoers .surrounded the remnant of the little band a,   t
them pri.sone.r

*1


160                         Ammm-
CHAPTER XLII.
IT was   prettily furished Aitting-room, with a sunny exposure,
stand of flowers in the windows, and vases filled with bright
autumnal leaves',upon the mantel-piece and table. Of its two inmates,
one could be read at a glance : professional nurse was wrtten on her
dignified face and pursed-up mouth, and when she spoke, the false,
wheedling tones of her voice reiterated the fact. The other, poor
child, could be admired, pitied, feared, as her moods varied, but
never understood. She was lying back among the cushions of the
couch, her cheeks flushed, her eyes flashing with unnatural brilliancy,
singing snatches'of Itahan songs. while she tossed up a small India
rubber ball, sometimes making it rebound from the back of her hand,
and sometimes catching it in the palm, but never letting it fall.
"Cue  ora C'  I mean what hour is it, Mrs. Posset?" and she sang
on gayly.
"ai ,;oronrspo. e d aubra tersa e
C&amp; 'a tavra , la ae     a oedegi e tol;
Oedeki S"n, e pis CAUrsu wlse,
Da far gwro sre la note meu;ra-
"Twelve o'clock, marm."
"Riwo. d ae7wa oai arpa pna# dwrz,
Baims pearl, -
"That clock anticipates: look at my orlog."
This. Mrs. Posset, who was quickwi'tted. interpreted to be an order
to consult her patient's watch, which hung' in the ad'oiingchamber:
but before she returned, the lady's mood had chdiand. Her hal had
dropped to the ground, and her spirits had fallen with it. She was
now leaning forward with her elbows upon her knees, and her chin
resting in one hand, while with the other she pulled her long black
hair in the wildest confusion over her neck and fe. Still singing ,
her tones were as sad as they had been gay a moment before.
"Ahi meuoria rde?. co e Uancig;
Col rinembra r la w.a passaa ,i a
S'ogaS W *be.gs, u a gsoia ita,
Tu peree, aiaor da me noa gi d'iids
" I can't accommodate myself, now he is gone- se ,ii ~s
"fdfcia' is qeesto st.
Bos da tutti lMusdouare;
C.u pa  a aafsm'
Wilyou have the bounty to reach me my darling ?" and she

sTANDs.

161

looked up beseechingly into Posset's face, stretching out her thin,
feverish hands.
The nurse took a pot from the flower-stand, containing a tea rose-
bush, and placed it on a little table by her side. "La rua I is
belzua ! la bella delle belle !" and she smiled with delight, kissing the
buds : there were two, one closely shut in its protecting calix, and
another just ready to burst forth. while above these a fullblown rose
towered. in all th'e majesty of perfect loveliness. Laying her cheek
timidly against the open rose, its coolness refreshed her burning skin,
and sie soon pressed it so closely. that the petals were loosened and
fell ene 1yv one to the ground. At this she jumped up, tossed back
her hair from her eyes, and remained standing far a few moments as
motionless as if she were in a tableau. Then she began to cast
suspicious glances behind, and on every side.
Posset had dropped a stitch in that eternal blue stocking of hers,
and was standing Us- the window trying to pick it up. all unmindful
of her charge. So the ladv,seeing nothing to intimidate her. seized
the rosebush ly its stem, shook it violently, crying out, -- Per beUs
Che .4n, nli fmi piace?s" and dashed it upon the carpet.
When she saw the pot broken, and the uprooted rose lying at her
feet. she lee1an to weep :' but whether from real sorrow, or to disarm
Mrs. Po.set's anger, it was impossible to tell. She certainly sobbed
vi.lently. while that worthy female, with an acid countenance, which
made io . sure she, had long since justified her name. by curdling any
milk of human kindness there might have been originally in her com-
position. cleaned up the dirt. , But if you watched very closely the
large black eyes. the Iagy was So) diligently wiping with her pocket-
handkerchief, a flash of mirth could t4o detected in thgm. As the last
dustpan full of earth was carried off by the hardly used Posset, the
lady ran tso the piano. Her fingers strayed over the keys. striking
here and there a chord, and then began a sweet, sad melody, so sad
that each note seemed tear-laden. The time was broken. the subject
stran-lv on.ewifused : bits remembered here and there. fragmentary,
vet hariunoniwu-;. liko a breee sweeping ver a parterre of flowers,
bringingz and blending the perfunws  f all. Suddenly her touch
quickened upon the key-:' she rattled off a brilliant waltz. then a
polka. and then some nimrry country dances. Their gayety seemed
contai1u!. She bean t ILuzh, peal upon peal: the wild, unearthly
laughter shook her whole fran.p. d echoed through the r'otm. until
IPIIsset. WhIi had been cautioned U-b the Doctor. that anyv grmat exeite-
fr  the delicate     f the patient's lungs. migh
rnvi   !i ifl c,1'-lca e  state  ofth*        r t  prooveI*taa
riusel d r--rlf to -t wp it. Putting her arm round the lady's waist.
she dr#r h'r from the piane lack to the couch. and. :n' into the
next roim, bre ught it a lbandbolx, a small It,,-king-.lasI. and a I runt
and eomb. arid lplacel them  n the talk' by her side. Th.' t had the
desire I ef-t-. her laughter ceased as sullenly as it had le;.run. and
with a S-eri'us. compeWsed air, as if there were business oft inj'rtanee
to be attend    ka t1, she took off the c ever of the bandbox. and held
up a stylish -sprinz bonnet, pink s.ilk. trimmed With white lace. After
gazing at it th eug.htfully- for an instant, she laid1 it back, and peut the
bandbcox by her sidte ln the tloor :then. drawing forward the glass.
she began to arrange her hair. :qnvtral styles were tried : at last one
proved satisfactory. She put on the bonnet, tied it, pulled out the
2t


162

STAxDLSIT.

strings and. delighted with the image her glass 'reflected, smiled to
herself, and murmured-
"6Vrrei rederlo"
At this arlucky moment the door of the parlor opened, and Mizs
Standihd entered. The expression of her face seemed at first more
severe than usual, but uptli osde rving' her closely, her contracted
brow and compressed lip showed somtne grief which she tried to hide.
At her appearance. Violet changed coilItor, pulled off her bonnet. with
the frighteiedi look oef a child caught trying on its mamma's finerv,
put it its the bandbox, and spread her skirts over it, vainly trying
to hi It, It.
NSt.hxing.1 could bte kinder in intention. than these weekly visits of
Miss Stailish.  She crtuht pirtur. tiew.redrose. b.n! et,
laces. al rnament to Vieolet. whieh delighted her after her ister-i
law la I . rioe : but dirine' her tav she s cuIl  el-le 'n be inJue-.I t,
speak, er Ah)w the ligdhtet plc a-ure- in her society.
Mi- San lish tried to entertain her this rimornini z. 1v de'scribeingr a
towcr sht ew which she hat been at the lay befe re, beut her words
were -. entir#'lV unICeedd that he nmade bet~ a sheert visit.
A% she pased Mrs 1' set, in leaving the reom, she beckoned te
her.  When they had gone eoit te o~thxsr, Violet darted toe the do1or
with a rapid. stealthy -tep. Knieeling. she put her ear to the key-
hole anl li tene 1: thorn jumping up just as Mrs. Preset was :ersingOv t"e
lay h r hnd  nu the otir, sihe penl it herelIf. and said -% cablo,
I mean. it ruakes warm   I have thirst''  And Pesset, completely
deceived Iy the ruse, followed 31i.s Standlish down stairs, tee get her
charge a 1ass o f water.
Violet toode litenin  until their footsteps sie! away. and then,
Creeping : et Into' the entry. she leeokeed albosut tee se1e if the coast was
clear.  All was juiet : - she glided lown stairs and stopped at the
door on the ri.::I. which led itO Ie rem sf the Mleial Iire- r.
She knew he was usually out at this ioir. but she tremeldl s fre Cr
head to feet. thiat fior a moment it speilmed mre probable she would
fall poewerl-s tee thee grond- . than havse trnth to spen the doser.
But a foeotstep sounded ton the entry abPove. If she remained, dis-
covery wascert in : within, was psible safety. she entered : the
room  was empty. On the tab-, lay the merniire   paper : .h
snatch.eI it. *rurupledel it up, andl theru4 it irite e her pocket. The
drealee Ift:ets1,%e  s14d n1 Iiearer : they t..pped at the door f the
It r1m*t bee e f the eyoungI dttrs,  she theuiht : an! half
deasd with terror, .,h- rtuched1 behind a .srt-n that stood b1efecre
the tir .
Tho v.-n: manr anmee in, unlockel a el rt. gt a bottle of ether,
ansi witlieo ut sekinez towr  thee fir-plicee. weet out again.V1. Vilet
crept te ths loe r, eOpeened it. andi ted up stairs, as if wings were on
her feet. All this time. Posset linmzreIr'ad l wiping below.
Vioe t. still ple anti panting. tssek the paper from her packet,
spread it ount ups ee the table. andi ran her finger over the csslnumns
with a troublede lok. She was so poor a scholar, that, had she not
hearel that mysterious whisper, she miszht have pored over the
paper all slay with very small chance sf finding anything to agtitate-
her. But now, her attention was reuses!: she knew there was 5(e-

#0

e
thing she must not hear, and that it was about Horace. At last she

sTfANDSH .

163

thing she must not hear, and that it was about Horace. At last ishe
found the war news.
ATEST TELESRAPIC *ESPATCI.
DEFEAT OF UNION ThOOPS!
in lrge letters. Then some lines in finer print, which she could not
make out.   iewer 1wl. hcr eye fell upon a line in letters as large
as the healing i the paragraph.
COL. STANDISH SHOT !
The wors seemedl tee ranl themselves in fire up.on hir brain: she
id her arm  with a terrible shriek. then fell to the .rund. while
aream   f ild gu-he Ifrom hor mouth. When  rs. Poet.r-
calld i 1v that shriek t her dluty, rai i up ta irs he 1u!nd that wha
the Doctor had ling feared fr his patient had taken place: she had
b   t a lo4dvessel, andi been instantly seifliated.
Aus mesenger wa sent to recall M11  Standish. whose c'arriagre hal
j-   di-ven out  f the court-varl.  When she re1ached1 the Asv-
lust and found that Violet wasreally dead. killed v the operation
she had taken to keep the fat.il pi! -r fr rm her. h--r P IrTiude anrd
self-control gave way, and thL  p  r  id malid burst mhte tears.
CIAPT ER        XLI I.
Ov   afterpe. in the0 yn      f                 an
man entereel th  Il e)pital I r pr-er  wrr.
i..hn  1. e l -40-w- ly  the  tameus.  r  r  bet r  n   u
They were att ended byV an * eteer ina m.:  .rra.Arw!C~I
leet 1 ar ounde jhe doer te ,tare at the-d       trnmrr
.-                         pe t  I reck.  'aCl a w
helii her beoy up. that he mni-ht tt r tould n'ttyr'
ii elw I e hat -the Y ankee' .  ent v.  -n   Xo~s    tv
h a n   ' m  a ll                          h r    '  u  m
- That I woul. sonny -ant if the rpe  l sh  .     at   ir
off andi twist it int a coerd to stri::ti emn.-f-  fthHopa,
The guard who patrolled ths' 5eeak in frus   h  Hstl


164

STAXrIs-

overhearing this charming dialogue, respectfully made way for the
another and son.W
In the mean time, the geantleman had led his female companion up
the steps, protecting her from the pressure, though he could not
shield her from the abuse of the crowd.
Following the officer, there entered a large room on the first story,
with four rows of camp cots running the length of it. The ladj'
threw back her baregte veil. and g-azed anxiously aimut htr Her
face, though pale and travel-worn, was yet so beautiful that tle.
ficer's  anriner changed at  nee, from %uprcilious indifkrence t
eagerness. to wy-rve her. -
"1There are three stviries, madmrr. eighty beds in each. I will in-
quire for your husbarli. Is Coloner.l Standish here ' he asked.
No one respion'dedl to the name. and they mounted t- the next
story: were eq vlly unsuccessfiul: then ton to the next. EllA exam-
inel the cupat'Is of each bed. lut in vain. A terrible' f'ar seii
her : the first report was the true ion. t hen. Sho. trenbled rrn
head too foot. and claspel her hands tightly refund h-r ceompaniri's
arm for support. The confederate Captain was s' mn.Oved   hri
distress. - for he had a soft place in -his heart fir pretty woni-n. i
that Mr. Taiit was ebligel to recall him to hi1e.ses. andi  1im
to bring a chair and a glass if water tie the lady. He aliern d in.
staitlv and when he returned 1. tried t? comfort ir.
"oen't. pray d n't take on so. madam : he's here. semc'where.
* only we can't find him just yet. I know he 's not lead, *'eauf e the y
are talking of an amputation as soon as he 's strong enough to bear
it : and they don't amputate dead men. you know.
This seemed an original form for ee n elation to, take. lbut the
Yun Captaim's tones were tender an! agitated : he evidently meant
A f;.tstep now sounded on the staircase. " There 's the Pctor."
he exclaimed. and went towards the doer ti meet him. " Good
evenn,. Dctor.'
l ow are vn.* i'aptain ?"
Where iS 'eel.nel StandilH ? His wife has come t.l nurse him.''
The house she has  Then shemrna     back where sht- ame
frOm. I can takecar''tny own patirnIts and this i n place for a
Captain Mat'nninz drew a paper hastily frm his po-ket t, and hand-
ed it ti the lDoctor. It was an order for Mrs. Standish's aelmissin
into thne lieo'pital. t k' care of her hub-lanl. suljel t to the sam.
re'straintt a othr prtie rs of war. ald signm4 --. '. Beauregd
Genral~ t' 'nnig".-gr,
Tiei wll-k  s-ia- 'CoMld1 n1t be dvi'Pte. and with a v0rv
bil err e'. Ir  re) r 1"w  l t) hi,  u-  ts. and  invite'I them  to fel . eW
h.   Tlhe-v  w.-nt  1.iewn  t. the  lwer  .t.r. ants  e d it. ,nT  a
d-,)r.
"'1 .A el 3 andish  i'  here, madam :  but let me  rive  u  a cautie n
My patient is fe'verngh. a' I cannot bear a seovne : if vo.~u make ene, it
Wilt 'e'rtainly cest him hii arm andi perhaps his life''-
Tb. ie ct,.r cepened the edeor. .1l sed it after her, andl remained i ut-
ide win Ledwardl ande the~ Captain.
llorac' lay upern a stretcher in one corner eof the dark cell '.he had

I

BW;NDISK.

165

r

entered. He looked worn and haggard, with a frverish Bush upou
his ch-eks. His eyes were closed, but he cried out, impatiently,
" Griffiths, where have you been? Can't you put a cool cloth on this
cursed arm of mine ? it 's burning up." She saw an earthen pan of
water by the side of the stretcher, with a lump of ice in it, and kneel-
in- dowi  took off the bandage. dipped it in the ice-water, and
wrapPed up his wounded arm. There was something in her touch
so unlike the handling of the careless Griffiths, that Standish opened
his eves. ex'claime-d -Ella!" and then closed them hastily, putting
his l.eft hand to hN forehead.
What a foul I am ! it cannot be: the fever has touched my
brain.
But. HTe4race, it is Ella. come to nurse you. If you are very
quiet. the o1).cteor will let me ,tay
"e iflY darling: you have eme'n at last ! this r1omrnt makes uphto
me f r~all I have suffered."  Anal he drew her t,, him and kis  er
again ante! again.
Ella could nowt restrain the tear- that weo id Iro ll I ownb er cheeks,
but she checked the wild throbbing o4f hr heart. and  ai1, ,very
gently -        -1                       t-:let me lav myvhead
- There, that will do: n.1 w you mu1t ie quit . - me lay e hea
down   n vut breast. and feel what a haplpeinss it is toI'e with
Then there, was silence in that gloomy cell for halfan hour, but it
senuemed tfe its inmates ulit a memfflt 4 1. ye 31td4of rapture.
A keek at the ootr brought the-n   back to- time and plce.
"You are not going, - they have noet co me for you yet ,  and  tan-
ish grw; ped hc-r more le 'y
Smiling he   I am a prenr Of war, and shall stay here until I am
exchan gvd.
e  la . "  -nv                   li l1 1 in1this  dirty  h oele.  Go
"Ella. you cannot mo-an tit :you wo 'I -fryut sain
l ok  cut there. antdl v . will             ftr ti, i  n  1 ,
She walk.! t the wind6 -W. A1  ull nt hellp shuddering. It
COMma!leld a viwef th   ity where the      i     r  fli
upon  the  arms  la  legs t .  en  k  rh  e   ri w  r t Ia r
ro Im bee i "rn           m l p ek.r    1eISi nr :s r-,you
k n o w . '  li  r c   apli lai nr        a
,Sho' re'rnennlcere~d Captain M~''~wikril. and thP I , 114dWs.,emed
to freeze iin her veis withLr     ut iotr
falter.
-QOur I-. u nt 'rtainly is net pia  I
tan te-mnrro. Thor, they at'' e n
Sh'  t I'te! the  .1 o'r.aritl  N! r  Till 1t :1kil  ia  lW  vye I C
9"'"A  .dr. ad MrTftr your mar-
"Have y : t Ill him ? Shall I 'n   ti~ll't     e'  etmr
riage this +-v, nn ! ?~.
I fir,,   .  anI i Ella  -t. TN   -.   - - t  w  h
All " ur deep-laid plt.I     ha'.'        ewt    Pter
Brier. and  he  think"  thte  e t it a e e  t   b et  fir  hi
patient. tCaptain Manninte will pro uro  is.adgtnt        1
friendly Ramisay ti p.-rfernm the cieee
-Oh ! why can't you marry u~
"' The eblergvman muinit IN' a re4de lt ef ~ ruithebrderom
D.:etor Bri.'r here interpa -.~'l  'Pnt~erytelrec'or


STWDWHs.

he must not even have his face washed, and hair brushed. to-night,
that is, if you want him to live to enjoy his honeymooL."
"It 's nearly six o'clock," said Edward, looking at his watch,
"and you may expect us again at eight. Captain Manning will
you lead off your prisoner? I hope you are armed."
-*To the teeth." replied the Captain, showing a very white set.
and drawing his arm through Mr. Talbot's, he took1 him away
with him, while Doctor Brier went into the cell to see his patient.
In a raging fever I suppose:"   and he felt Ivorace's pulse.
"4Deuse take it it 's montre regular, and your skin is co4tler."
"Thank you f tr saying that, Doctor Bier." said -Ella.
If we can get safely through with this evening. and have these
bandages changed every iftee.'n minutes through the daytime. an-i
every ho ur at night - well - I don't like to raise hopes. tout w,:
will see what we can do.''
1Oh! I can d141 a great deal more than that. I can change the
banlarts e-ry ive minutes. lay and night."
T dteue v-ou can: awl worry niy patient t death. I sup-
1LIa lashed.   " I oily meant I cou'ill make any exertil n t''
.a i'. arm. You kniow l he is an artist. .Ii this snakes he ri-ht
arm     ,brn  mt i onrt' valuable tti  otht r it-ple's
-- luroiph 'I dn't k'n xvow that. All ru'n h t,- u'.'sA for their arn-e,
anl tsome.fl' quite  as  imp rtant  a  intin:  -'  and  ftl  the -Doct i
wert.
Then Ella. knr"ling dw   byt HIrat- 'Iybol. put one arm rouwl
his ne k. and whi ."red in hi cart1. -I am gin: to tell vou sesrt-
thint  ry sal. ando ty't it i th- roa-*,tn why I an hert'.  Vi'let1
is d4tl'l. You wt'r. r-i.ported kulitd. in the tiro't lispath. You know
she was in the la'-t staz's of e n'moptin. and the shick was itoo
nu'h for her."
tn1i Ii w1 t spIk : he hI l turnI ..vtr. and buried Lihi faits
in heI pillow.
A after a 1nt pmie. he raised hi'. hea I ami said. '' Ptr thin, I
did o1   d.rve 'h      i care  Imh ftr n- ': "and Ela saw
thit hi,' fwe was wt't with tear-.
iH'  e I f'r a lass  f nm.  r in  drink it1 dwnt e1ag"rly : a. 
xhx-' e ano theLr I-n 't: '.-. It waL' I r .ken lv .-taw lilh.
-  IW -0thve a :rai wi"dlI: a '. "'n as I arn exc'han :1
invite mA the .er mn'-' 1f Wm'.i' :r  .  HI ne't hli .\  u
p s . I  k .. w . 'r  hts  .  r-E '  i t  fr ie m l  f  mu in '  T h   kn   t
Itl  i   ''  l  ti  . b P   t nT: h  i '  i m '.  N   m r e   l i b rt y  r
litti  w"  mi  a :' ltarnt  4  le:~" :  a l  shall  keetp  a v'ery  m..'ht
re-nt .''
-Io i' od-f r-:'thin: little thin: n t wh'm. I sh14Ould Ilk'
toe  k''w  !".'
Yi 'il t'ind' 't when the tin.-  rn'm.. M1r. Tal"-t h a: cono
for th'' iie"'ast a'wlt t 1b-rymna't .ini I b l:hit a w''i-lin:-rin: in
Wam'.binet'n. the day; I c'amte awa'.-''
"V W-i do' ne iv-u art' the c'o -'i.t p"- ple I ever hieurd uf  Anti
sulpp 'se the bridi'room says 1 w it, instead of I will ? "

166

FMrNISrs                        167
Then I shall take, in his place, the handsome young Cap
that brought me here."
tI bohieve   rOUwould.  I won't trust you another moment.
L'. i eie io uElla :111 marry you this instant."
Le   t S.  c  mt.  You , ust have "some tea, and I must put the
-OH II orr fad u1chanrf  my dress  Here a man entered with a
trunk. which he depsited. and went out agam.
'-wHw dii that trunk come.
" With me."
IlrWi meO4. --nd h'w did you come ? It's very odd, I
I yr th..ught f a-kii, 1ll this time. One would think it was an
eser-y thugt. fra nfair lady with a single knight to penetrate
thry-ay woearnies.1 ad enter a, i  yenv  capital. How in the
wr  i M'- noit .1-h it %'nt  o-d for vou. Let mie change
-Your lam'Ist.r'' ozl4thuf i i tell vu. while'I lbrush ryiv hair and
yu aya  anit" ltt  - I  uldii 11t lcb.ar to be marri-d if iayithing
put "  m h n nhuem i '..*Il
ut1aa-.1          tltAzie"fecling myself, you see   and
YauIo p   i   1.1  wathir .'s  t a grain of sentiment in you.
-'l 1or4tIvi k to\\a       -hmtn.
'I  1  , I ire  \  IIt   tirt.  thIt r '   a  lear.
WTel in h  a       ru'd her hair in silence.
1w it ri       aaid race. in a tone of honest
di H1w it rit    a      m      chut than that smoky lamp rives
out.     n hrt    I mu1t t, -Ait.
Lut m    hr0 rd    t      a iiiiir.  " I am so glad you think it as
pEt'", rt r10 t          t teAn  it  . B"io   now.- 'Ai 7Tu
prt'y      ith it.             di 1  tell v  abott our y urney.
Mrbal -k It L1i hi tn from the                ecretarV of W ar.
3r. Tk   a    t r 'ar a, the xt-vremt limits Of our
ie. T  a     r             -1t to go any farther. but on we
Went. Th  i a  C,111  t     lavalry saw  us, andl surrounded
ten   uiri. ae m    rrurr'rlve, as prisoners of war, and
th" cariae. tan     ur       Fran.   He heard our st iry, and
k tinber tCan   t        .' iregardl. who g'av~ u a pass,
ts     ~ht                     ar dsors ttiew opei. much to your
at tw sightit we i11d44sfew                     aU
liarate 'hajlain. -y u know
han - al th'n he cn return
ho ha beint lrkm         ' B ar'    r i ery wUl: adl thiourh he
toahd, reiment.e ' e ki               w  ,iIrv t th  fl" raniander-
r  ta et~iiVI             - *ur'' v, x rrum' jy what he tailed rry
ind'u1v n' * " "pe''t x   :r - d'-al " Mr. Tal't's influence.'
beut an    1          m   wht a tr-u' fri nI Ii': has been to y'u.
A~ ii'  o  s'u'  t..ht th  U.v  liver llamii'ay came in. fot-
lowed1 iy Mr. T dl .'a'alt  an n'f'       Tve. a ih twt o hun
rit' that male th. n n am1 h eaat in * r amerin tw'h ared
bseingi~s. wh o hal 1  i-  r  eunt~ '1.i-mt  n  a-   nf' g te  ard
ness of the mnarna. ti". w-  "'ii

*


r

TANDIS.

CHAPTER XLIV.                  *
IR. TALBOT eme the next day at noon, to bid Colonel Standish
and hi wife gNlby. before he left lRichmonl. Looking round the
little cell, he' said. - what fairy- has wrought this change  "
'There is the fairy . '' aal .tandi4ch pcite' t, Ella. wh e dr eppe -I
her hu,bandl a meecking .,. urte'sv, and sail. "Merc-i JioJkVee r,
qu'on ii' h-ireux de plaire o ea' cre granedecir."
flMy highness is pleased, now: [eut I 've ben irrumblin dr ad-
full  Talbeot. The-y seize-d me early thiS mo1rn1in'. Wlthe cut tellin
me wh it they were going tee 1. carrie iew into the large r ee  e
my strticher. and there they-v 1-ft me while this den was th r
cleanly : and when they brouh m1e e- back. I was put int ,thei dkt-
licious little cut, with a new maittress ain clean 4seets.  I S.  ly
your fa'- you i  't appre-c-iate- it.   diex41#ar fell ew. lut a 1) 3 is a
ject f r eathu iasm. wh-  a man has laid on a feldCi bliankt ("r
more than three weeks."
rAni was that really the a.e. Standih ?  What cruk-
It was n crueltv. bIut kind   . Y0U - the p r wretches are
brought   fir--sh fr emllthe IJbilby, al ]put int e the h-sital 'els. I
knewt11r -   e ition tee- Well, anl ravel s at thet i iea o'f geing
into oe   that Dr. Bri r. thtuhii he wr- 'rundly at myv etTuiAIac,
let me stay -ton my stretcher in this lit tle- cel, where I hal th.- ad-
vantag of -     the s#- irihabitant. unti1 mV gi Iood fairy came.
" Last sunm: , I efte'I netice-I a IV-mbnle'4hcIl above one of the pil-
lars of the   te II ou'e. A pair of tiny wrenas erupt through the
fuse hole. an-I brou-rht firth their little brood,  Iad I been a poet,
I should  ve  celebated in  song  this  rtran - of leov  with i  h  ly
mysteni  H s it  the- ebcambenlr of death rininMitg f 'rth fir mtic it life uad
joy.    4i t  e are livin  kut The pem I c" lbi t writ ''
I think  it w ul I-.  c-1ier t  write- it than it.o live it. in : ,
quarters :eut I sh.)uld le' an ungrateful dejr t , e  plin n . It it
Will r  :ive yOU t- n'ei-h trcuI-. will v u try t .nza e  h
for us in W iehington, aa: inst I am exchan1el      '
I shall ie happy tee 1e So. Aenv lim.11it as t. )prie  ? "
Sterli  an   b Ir.the'rs ar, nybaVkr. a'f I wIl gi- y .u a
draft  n lth-i tc till up. Everv lcllar was tJk-n fr-.m m- w  : I
fell. s I 'm an abselute- -Jar f-r the pre!*-It  b-ut E.l-la  .
of gold.   he gave a dllar f-r a quart -cf cyters ifr mv di!]' r. nd
would have pur)li ha-el a pair ,f bee4ot, fe" r .   wenity-!jvee 21-. wh-n
she f    u mine had l""-in At'-n. lin anitie-:i  n , i myutur- -'--d-
but I put a step to sc preedialitv."'
-u Y  ian't ge bare-f --t. in h-. Mr. Tall -t ' '-ai I Eila.  .
causeA hC o tee mean to pay  4e-si..nlre.
- N -  Let v ur wife tk - car'  f y :e. 'taniih: she knows
wh-re i ave- anid where  , ,p11en.I-T : bei 1-s. I ha-  e0 ;rrae--
nets for ri-tilling that little p-ir e -f he-r when it i empty.  I
think I kneew ef a house you~ will like : it is one ot the handseemest in
Washmjezteen. and beele  to e Williamu II. Reyne -IIs, who is min to
Eureope. and wants tee ri'nt it furneihed, fir f ur th u'sand e lirZ'

TADEMs.

169

" That will just suit us. Now tell me the news. Were there any
indications of an advance of our army? Is Richmond soon to be
taken ? 9"
"Not before you are exchanged."
"You believe we shall conquer at last, do you not, in spite of po-
litical Generals ani  eir blunders?
Yes. I have such confidence in the justice of our cause. that I
cannot 1dubt the result. The struggle will be a desperate one, but
we shall emefl' ''ut from it iene nation 'Iion Re constitution. an-! 1ne flag.
The Southerners have sucked in the' doctrine of States rights with
their me th.'r's milk : it has forced part f their school lesssons. and
their university lectures. until the poison has infected their whole
svstem. and 1an only le washed out with bloo4."
Yes : but there was a greater evil than this. We are now find-
inr wut praoticallv. what we knew in theory long az4 : that slavery
and free lab4r carinnct live under the same g cveruent.  lavery or
liberty muAt vield.  The Stouth. therefore, erie0s out. ' Seeesifn:
adur answeri err nmut bw-- Ermancipati)n : ' while the sword
shall decide etwee n them. I w1ull much rather that Slavery should
receive its death-blow from the war alone, - that the effort teo fasten
it. chainQ. should be its suieiel. But J cannot and will not believe
that we are spenlinz ever three nili TnS a aLi. and live- whost value
must be sum m,It up at the hearths they have left desolate, all to re-
store the  ld erdler of thinri:.4'
SI eltest Slavery as ruch; as ycu can do, and have always been
in favor cf a st- temn of gradual emancipation : but I cannot see what
we are to do with four millions of blacks suddenly released from bond-
age, and untit to become citizens.
r' " Are they not as fit to vcete as the Irish who come over here i
such quantities '! "
Ye'. er rather aiS unfit.)- But there is this difference - the de-
scefldant e4ef the Irishman. I'rn e on our soil. and educated in our
publi  Ch,.IA. b--cmes an  (xcllnt citizen : while the  African race,
who w   ld 1n ike m   It faithful lit uncr a in-onarhy: are ii my
opinie n. inncapable' of self-u  runcwn!t-iit .
I  cnt tink ..  ThoN.e mre gene-r u  patent. and docile;
andl d CVOU no t tindl them mn-r'- susep~tile tee rebg~ous iunpressions,
than white neIn ?"
-i Mc i tre so. But s   nir' w m-: a-il vt. ce::in  your
par   . 'I lrStandih. I w uld I it let th i h 1ofeice r vtite.
What 4--kin: want 1f ai cit ry ! andt frm a \ irgiJan, too.
Ella. whr it wil yu el teo him                      .
I will arerc~ with him as f r :s the wvn  arce 'rved a
sw.re    ll L I 1 I t break  t  di-a,,in ef    i,; ct upon
which Mr. Talbet anl luhr huebandI it 1-re I  widely  '' e" need
-nly  sit ti e minute-  in  a femaleh-  citt'  t  be  cIn'  le i   that our
seX was nie4ct mI fe efr legislative a"-mbhet
T-ch.' wh' admit it -e gracefullyy. cae ,mman I more than oene
vote. Mri Staindiih.'" Edwarcd replied, with a Tmile.
A knock wacs heard at the ed -r.  -Thc re  the Captain. come
to take me away. Good-by.
Manyr are the ways in which people 'shcke handb. seme let them
hang down lhke bells expecting one to advance and toll them: ethers

168


170                        STADISs.
present two fingers, and every kindly impulse freezes at their touch-
while a third class give a gripe indicting pain. without producing
cordiality. There is, however, a clasp, as Bulwer somewhere sars,
"which recalls the classic trust in the faith of the right hand."
These thoughts passed through Mr. Talbot's brain, as he was
released from Horace's hearty grasp; and yet, the poor fellow had
only his left hand to give his friend.
CHAPTER XLV.
th Er. . you must have bound ip my arm too tightlv: it hur1t, l1'
thunder.  What were y u thinking t.'   .     .
I W  Iitover again : perhaps I can make it f.l bettlr."E'
unage 'ff very gently, aid pressed her lips' 'h t -
be  it       rm'.  I know it pains you a great deal  I wv h I '  I
he-ar it I'.r you."
a4 )   lar tenounrh for me. Heaven knows: what a er4  fel'w I
am . Three. i it up again. nl I w' t say anotliher w rI. At4r
breakfast I haI[ tel m4re jolly.'
tNkw. -Mr.''orace, guess what I am gring to take 'ut 4'f my
trunk tiy'dav!"
Thu   spoke Efla. as sne balaneel herself on th  tt'im of the
cot heebr a , ml I 1kel at her husan- with ra           Ilti s.
toilet wa-sinishtelt. his t'rviikfa;t eaten, the lit tIt-Cell H  It I I. r
and n'w some amement must be pruvided.
Let me see - Backgammon
Chine'e puizzles.
-anity -air
N) N V i 've read that oftenn enough alrta Iv
-No .    l Ella clapnro4I her hanhis with chilL h I .:ht
r 'yv ain fair. little woman !'
mt I'1: hrI h iIn ''n her I irt. ' - On mv wor] and hnr I .':~
utit nx, y*u r-aulvy d"':.1 '1 '4 n anything.'' ~
Wh~y   ' ' -there are three thins that 'willdI* b-  r ni' o !.r
tov-(Liy . and I 've nearly dci!.dbetween them..
d .Apr1 9 tty WaV to kallrtep a fll'w  u'in al his
lie  Tae 1~  n my coat. :'' to your tinunk. roll the~ thin: v u ch's
up in  it. and puit it  'n th  table."''
.. 'H orace. N'u want to get a p'ee
N I I n't.  w ant f or play. neith 'r to cheat nor be cheat' j'
Ella went with an air ''f mystery. coat in hand. t' her trunk. mad'
a great huwinn of wrapm: up se me very' small Ihject in its~ military
foldb. a'n! 1 ud the lbundile 'n tlhe table. -- Now try again."
Is it a book of songs. - camp songs ?"

/

-rATrsIa.

171

"No!"
"iCheckers! That should be included in the Backgammon guess."
"Both are wrong."
4ugar-piutns?
"No
"Cigars
No : eatch me giving you those."
"Cards "
Yes."
[Iurra   I wonder I did not think of them before. Now spread
a pill ' b.-tw'.n uZ for a table, and let 's try Euebre."
The fir-t w' .k of Ella's imprisonment had passed, when she stood
looking at h-r husband intently one Thursday nrmug, without
speak in:.  At Lat she boke the science with, "How do you feel,
"r 'i'.now. I like that. After staring me out of countenance,
vTU in aire about my health :  then seeing tears in her eves. he
adle. hastily. " Whit is it, dearest ?  Any bad news. Don't fear
to telI me : I 'n well enough t' bear anything now. Y 'u knw the
Doctor said I was to sit up to-morreow. It 'S my arm. c.ntoundi it
It 's to be cut iff! As the Fejees fatten a guest for eating, these
curse I 1ctars strengthen their patients for the knife
- Hera' 114race! it 's not that : don't talk so. Doctor Brier
says vour arm will be saved. though yu will suffer a great deal while
these pit ce's of btine are coming out. and be longer in getting well than
if it had been taken off. But you don't mind that, you dear. brave
fellow; you will paint as beautifully as ever!
here it became necessary to clasp - the dear, brave fellow"" tightly
rounil the neck.
n  h it is It. then? There is smethinC. little woman. Speak
out :di n't Ie afraid to tell mrie : v ii see hew strong I am."
Only this - I brought- sonmedrawingS to show you when you
were we'll enukh.
Drawing' _r!Bring them out . I delight to look at drawings : why
should yii wait for mue to) be well . 'An our hero 'okod at his
,     sil-nt w nd r, as   he wo-nt to the trunk and took out a
wue ImISib-t   o-Lr a
Packa e which she kissed, and then ''pened.
There were two triangular, anl tw Iv.,nger pieces '1f paps'r. co verel
with highly e.,1 rd repre'..'ntations f men al horses, In what may
be called the s,,holby s..tvl  At first. Standish th utht that the
elose "'ntiCemnt must have turned hi'i little woman's train. o'r she
n.-.r w uld spread Out such daubs as tiese upon his bed  Then he
felt wh-e they must be, and t'uch'd them as reverentially as the
poor mother had done.
--  *--  i" he asked.
.   .--red- witha o -             his new kite? -h" did not
live to finish it.",.
-Prav. what i' this. St. Georz'e an i the Dragon?"
No the enchanted' horse: d'ni't you see, the Per'ian Prince has
jt mountedl him. Ernest c pie"d his dIress frcem a bo'k of costumes
-' Talhout lent him ; but the ht rs''' leezs puzzledI him. ie said
man  tlte. f pa  wer on ~ly here. h "d d1' them for me-


172                       STANDIM.
that I could not bear it, and sent him out to the stable to make a
sketch from nature."
" The darling little fellow! The Prince has a good seat, Ella.
Esty knew how a man, should ride. But how droll in him to begin
to paint the horse before his legs were done."
"Oh. he always did that., As fast as he got a piece drawn, he
painted it."
"And this. I suppose. is the Princess who burnt up because
she did not swallow the last pomegranate seed: the best case of
spontaneous combustion on record. She is certainly of the Amazon
order of beauty.
Nonsense. oIIrace: where are your eves? This is the genie that
came out of the copper vase. Sete, the column of smke is -lowlr
forming 4into ;h .tigure. The fisherman is partly rubbed out, but vo u
c an se.4   ac-
" Y. the old chap 1an.ks de.ceitful e . nouh to take in the miavt and
clap him back into his prison. There really is a -reat deal -f ex.
pressio inii that face."
I knew you would think Estv- had your talent the genie No, is
not s.. bad. when you know what be is meant for."
Ani so the parental criticism went on. inter-pers-ed with tears and
laughter. And now that Ella lire unburdiei her heart. she had so
many bright speeche-. SO many pretty tricks to relate of th'ir Iviy.
that the shirt Novenier dy:iv. which' was shorter still iii ths-r dri.
drew to a close. It had l't'omte alrnst dark, but. the smoky kero-
sene lamp was not vet jj hted when a gentle knock was heard at
the dor.
" Come in,"said Ella: and a tall figure in black. evidently a lady.
entered. Her air was stately and high-bred, but a thick ekpe veil
concealed her features. She hel l a basket in her hand, which she
gave to Ella. and said -" Here are some little comforts Vou cannot
buy in Richmonl : take them out quickly, I shall c' 'me a:.rain. but
say nothing aboit my visit. '4I-by : " 'and she wa  gin lbIotre
Stan-lish anI hi wifeh lii ree  r'r-I frm 'ithe astonishment her ap-
pearance hid atusewl them.
"'o. h.'r' is cram in thi bottl. real croam : and firiria. no rice
loaf so..nr -andI what can this b~e :' 4h Ibr ama. Ihow in 1y ice
thinzrz I can make you. la not the a kind! lalv r"
She mi-vI like a  qln  and her voiel. htw rich and  ft'l -.
I shall never re.t ea-v urtil I look unle'r that  I ne black veil.  lhe
must he1 h indomi."~''
Th It dl"es nit f11w. A _rroat rn mnv gd women are f.
hanil.s'e "
voryd .ifferent fr  :i ic  .r !in.irv  I w,,r'2' er izur' h was 'um rb.
and' I nvvr  e  a m i'n'r ,o f~l "f dZ' ty and! sweetne..s.  When
d1 o in k Thi. will c'me aigin -"
-Whe-n these tii e r. ':' 'd u. But I "hadl se. her in the entry';
"' Iluut if'v you tind sh' is not en e'rq handsomne, you will let her
comn. in. wont v' u. little w'rman ? "
El!s did not doirn7 a reply : The biusied! herself in arrangi n- her
stores. putting ice roundl the scream, etc., while Ilorace threw hiruself

SnDmSH.

173

back on his pillow and laughed. " Ella, my bandage should be cooled,
you neglectful creature; why don't you come here do it. Shall
I send for the lady in black to nurse me?"
But his wife took no notice of him.
"dMy pillows are in such a mess! Can't you beat them up. See
here*" -andid Standish seemed to be sliding out of bed.
This would not do : so EHa drew near with a dignified step, and
took hold of the pillows, but was instantly caught by llorace s left
arm, and held until she promised she would beg the mysterious lady,
the next time she came, to unveil in his presence.
Although the'rough Doctor uttered many sarcasms at the happi-
ness of the young couple, and prophesied that some discovery of
incompatibility of temper would certainly follow all this billing and
cotowg, still. it was with feelings of genuine astomushment. that as
he appr* ache1 the door in making his rounds one notrniag, he heard
Horace's veice sayintr in a tone of angry authority, "You shall do as
I tell vou. Ella : thi: is n4t a thing that you can judge of: my hoaor
is c'nccrned in it. al I I will be obeyed.
Aid so you ,hAl in everything but this, Horace."
"Everything but what I want. That 's always the way with
women. 1Such sweet submissive words until you want them to yield
to your better judzrment. and then  -
-But. loraev, it 's quixotic, - it 's muadness;: no man in his senses
would proper it.
lhoity-tvity I' cried the Doctor, bursting in. " What 's all this
"Mrs. Standish wants to worry my fever hack
"Mr. Standish wants to kill himself, by going into one of the con-
demnxed cells!
And so he shall, madam, and be hung, too. in the' place o
Smith. if he likes I 'm iound to save his arm, not his neck. He
felt 111race'f pulse. 'Too quick, -skin hot too My patient
shall not be contradicted  ; do  .u hear, madam .
Ella looked imploringly at th.' loctor, but did not speak. Doctor
Brier; turning ti lIlorae. said  Now tell me what you want.
Standish handed the doctor ,i slip of paper.
What ', this ! " asked ihe, putting ol his spectacles.
It . my sgignature, and the p-r fellow sighel. 'It's the
best I cnoul d with my' left hanl : t!-i paper wove'daiboiut every
w      -t h way and Ela wiuld n 4 4 d hAit ftir me.'
I am astonished at v u i r.s. Standish ! But who the deuse
told you the officers were teo oe chosen t-day' a ho4)ges for or
pr4isofr,of war. that your Gowvernentt calls -pirate . .. pretty
kettle of tish your President is making for hinsel: he II soon find
it 's a game two can play at.
Standish peoihntei to the Richmond Enquirer, where Benjamin's
order was printed in full.
Sir - You are hereby instructe i to ebiOOS' byIx  rm  m
the priss .ners sif wamr of the highe"'t rank. one wh' is to becnfre
in a ce'll apipropiriatedl to convi 'tedI Iemsi . and wh i s ti  etre
in all r"'pcts ats if such conietd. and ti bie held f'r execution. in
the sxue manner as may bee adopted by the enemy for the executaanl


BTADISH.1

of the prisoner of war, Smith, recently condemned to death in Phil-
a lelphiA  You will also select thirteen other prisoners of war. the
highest in rank of those -captured by our forces, to be continue in
the cells reserved for prisoners accused of infamous crimes. and will
trat theim as such. s4) long as the enemy shall continue so to treat
the like numnher 4)f prisoners of war captured by them  at sea. and
n,"w f1-r trial in New York as pirates."
-- YAu want this paper to be sent to General Winder" saidl
Brie~r.
Ye,. I 'r trong eniugh to sit up now. s; there 's no reason I
should shirk diity. Besides, I am younger than the other ccl nelk.
and can hear the hardship better.'"
" Ai what 's to be'ne of Mrs. Standlis.h ?
- Don't Speak tof her.'' said Horace. ha.,tilv.  ' It "S harI. I k:iv
but she 's a .."ldir's wife.
Verv well: I'11 have it attended to." said the Doo et 'r. in a
gentler tone than he hal e'ver used botre.
Th it same evening. he cane in t. sav -that I I''ract''s psr hi I
been dluly put in with the others , the lots drawn, and C ! :  .r-
C41ran's name  t-sen.  -- As there are eionly ten teld ler, uffi' :e
the prist'n--rs.'' he adide.  4of course yoiu will b'e mar'eel 'iifT t ti'h
con"deIedl ('ells when I give the wtri 'f't clommnand : but the dlnu%
take mne if you e:'t ''ut of my clutches. until I 've cured Aur arm.'-
And out the do tnor marche.
A-, he went through the entry. he came plump against the mvst'-
r'ious lady with her basket. lie -mutteredl an #)ath, an-I passel een
without noticinr in any other way. this infrincoment 'Of' Ii henrit-il
rules.
Th-eldroarv. rainy. November dyis hol chan  l it.' th. fr'e-tz If
December. whenl GeiIneratl Winder's atd r1ode up ti the oital  nd
asked  t -e 1ctor Brier. The vikit over. the l D t' r enter I the
den with an air ef more bustling importance titan usiuil. Ie *.x im-
inel hi patient carefully. and then said. - Deuse take it! v -11'I
get w0ll e1f y ttursedt neew : I n#el not keep y-c. any l on:e'r  l'ack
lip. lAt ioi eba : ze. Can yelu 1'..I- readyl tie gl t''-morr :'
'I  ein  he rs  i  at  nce.' sail  Stan  ish. inl  a  r  .
Ell i tr0- I p lb an l liii her hanl i n tih'ePDe-t-or'- arn -- Y.)
cann t mi in iitt wl kill himit
-Tb' d--u,-' it wdl !'' sae.l the DPcter. lau-zhine lI llt.  l' it
i%' of   I       in # fr i-. r yIC a'ermmain'. hil it vui ek.- the
idl -a '4 : K':   her'bl . Your husban1' i, e'x'hanze-L. e.I the
i1 t:  f trio i   it le   i.:h m en t'-m  rr-w  evenn  at  '  e4k.
fer N -we rt
"'ane'  hh w  kel lti h v t the window. to hile ti em tioni at
T i  nive-t-I new, aI fminllh-e at the' curtain until it' hr .ke
the'- trin:. Eila beurst inte te rs. a-el c'aught the Do't r'sh It ini
b eth of hor.e. ID eor Bnr-r felt a wufiT ea tirnz sens~ati cn in ii ter ',it,
'I cite new tee him. an i alrired he looe'ked about him fer s':m- me le
of retre it.
"De-ir take it. Mrs. Staincliih. wo" what the Colon'l ' a. cnt,
piulline y' ur curtain  Let my handI g-. er 1 'll t.-ll y'eour huei  1:

I

174

175

H1)race turned round "What are you doing to the Doctor,
Ella ?
0 What are you doing to my curtain, Horace?"
During this dialogue, Doctor Brier snatched  away his hand,
brusIhed it across his eyes. and disappeared.
All preparations for their departure were made. anI they had
eaten their laSt dinner in Richmond, when Standish said, 1"I wonder
what time tiur veiled lady will be here."
Whv. dI4 ovu think she will come to-dzy ?"
BecAu-ie i kriw sh6 is handsomw, anid in that case. -.he will
lift her vil. and ivive us one look at her face before we g Y. You
need n t !h tk'- vr he.i. I know human nature, 4er ratshcr woman s
nature. which i, inre t. the point. There, - that -s her knock
anCd 114ri'  r l e anl we nt ti the -r.
It w, -   a.lv. whe sai1. - Ihave braupht no )basket. ut have
cer' 1' T i I v ea : "d-, anI wish y'u a sa j urney.
Will v't n't let Us know the name of our benefactress.  he
asked.
The la I answered. "4Virginia Lee." and pittin: back her vil
for a in fent. shi wed him a face that ju.titied his C nti lence in
her beauty :but the patient sl rr ew he read there. drove all jysting
thought fr ,n - his heart, aId tau.hllt him the sacred s of grief
such as hers
Th,, niil happiness left me n earth' "she r3iil. in her swe~et.
rich v-e. it to sthe and e af .rt th.  who sutfer. If vu would
thank in f r the little 1 I have del' f r y ci. !Show kidness to some
C entlera:'' - 1 ,ier imprisoned at th.' North.''
Th'Ir j irnr was an uniVImfrtale e: but   ne in Washing-
toa. 1I'er r rinel his strength s) rapidly that he began to talk
tf rturnin t~o hi- ri-riment.
.. I writ-, t4 invite Minnie to corner  , a  jpe'n'I..1 the
winter with me !"' sai. Ella:  I think a h  e 1t  oe would do
her C- eel. sh' we n1t l O'kin;g well when I left her.'
- The very thinz. htlti 'w""'n-.  I cEi n"t bear to leave vou
alone. andi I mut be' f 'tSi
V    ", the  Itter wA-; written  - we n T   .1" ,te  o'e  nt  n of it.
Mr. Tl t will n t he in W&amp;i:rta tn    wi:,ter :ht has j'ined
his re.1iment.
lai -l'i tin' Minri'' r im. -:h1 fmnmI E'! a  .       H sr o was
at Ani t  . with Bar'i1l, who was preparing h: tr p 1 r his
N bt,    ",E~   oltin

I

sTAN m. H


0

176                       rDMsa.
CHAPTER XLVI.-
IN the Washington Star of the 23d of February, 18t, might be
read the following paragraph.
"The s.)mewhat mnuntonl us -zAcial life of the metropolis, was ram-t
agreeablv diversided last evening , by a brilliant party at the huh aU'
of C06:IPi  * * * * * *. The S*cretar of State snatchtd anhu
from his ar ILOUs duties. memloers of the Cabinet. foreigii repro.-
sentativt;. h r es. naval ani militarv, all asseibh-d ti cI.hbratt
Washingta's birthday, anl d# ho 'n'Or to their distinliii'h,'d ha i1t.
who ha'. j~ust returned with freh laurels from the expedition to Re-
anoke Iland."
So much for the newspaper report; but Sarn Quill, whi describes
all the Vanity Fair entertaiunmenuts fr the Washington Star. draws
upon hi- imagination for his fact:, ani then tints themrn 'it- r de
row. We will rather take the account of a gentleman, a stranger.
who arrived in1 Wasiington ths intrnin; if the 221. andl pushe I
his way, as the clock struck ten that evening. through the hail to the
receptiion-roim. Uccasi 'nall y the- crowd se)aratedi. aaI gav  him a
glimpse 'of a beautiful head ad. rned with braids, and acoil, ani puffs,
and ringlets f golden hair, and towards that he steered his Course.
wondering if the waves laf fashionable life that bore him, now against
the lace tiounces of this fat dowazer. now among the tarl'tan skirts
of her dlaurhter, would ever lani him safely before it. A tall, stately
lady on his right, in blue satin with red roses, was accosted by1V a
lively fearnai-I in yelloww tarletan.
" Anl s''o yau have given your son,-your only son, is it not?"
Yes, my nlyl" 'n.
Your nly cbii l'
So N: I havi' six daughterw.'
Ah.vy.! I thought yl-u had danuhters. But your only son, -
VotI have given him to his, country :h%1w no6e ! "'~ Anil the yellow
tarietani suiid 1 hvIing reached her climax, liki' the force ot iaturr,
she Coull  tarther a,
WVhiil the -trangir wonde'rtaI whether %part in m .th'rs. afttr sim-
ilar sa.'riti'.  aerniil themselves with such brilliant r  ses. 4r waitedl
for the 'tatv' ti cr, iwn th."m. ho was swept on aid loded  -tween
two !adiI. - the a  . t l aucular. and sharp a- a needh,  the
othor. sh. rt ai r  I. liki a w.ll-stufedl pin'ushion.
Needili.     a Mr. Vassal i ia zone to Eurnpe :faillaowal Mrs.
IHarris in ti very n-xt 'steamner. Shocking, isn't it ? "'
Pinen~.hi an. ' 4Th. n11' now y..u don't believe a word 'if it. do
you f Su'h a 1ev 'ted hus'b~ua ., o fan'~f Mrs. Vas.al !"
Neel..   4 One, never kniawa, what ta believe ni Wadlayvs. Such a
scandal.1 wirld   liut my; new 'hill-nurse livedl at t'he Vas.als,
and shia says it 's too tru. She heard Mrs. Vassal c'har -e her hus-

STANDM.

177

band with it before he sailed, and he never denied it; only said,
'Nonsense, Mary.' "
Pincushion. "Poor Mrs. Iassal! he always did seem so fond of
her."
Needle. "I 'm no ways responsible for the story, you know ; I
merely tell you what I have heard. The world is "-
Andith.- stranger was about to take ntutes for a new school for
scandal, when a friendly wave deposited him before 'his hostess.
The graceful bow with which she was receiving her guests, changed
into a warm pressure of the hand, as she said, ' You here ; how glad
I am'. I was afraid my invitation would not reach you."
"Barclay brought it to me. I think he came all the way to our
camp oln furpSe.
What a kind soul Barclay is ! You will stay in Washington
long enlaugn'h for us to see something of y -u. I htp I
Yes : I h ve a week's furl.iugh.'"
''Conw' i  anl se'T mC to-morrow inlraiiz. I
IHow thi -,ntence ca ncludd. we cain nev-r know. fr the. stranger
was borne outt into the hall.by an thr ldoor fr irn that which he had
entered. A r 'am'in  ayr the ri-ght attrated! him. Here ware cardl-tables
already ..cu.isd y liveager whit players.  It ses'twed p political
ground, ta:  r in onin..ca rner, a member 4f the Cabinet was laying
down til' ,w  a, a circle at nat.r  aid conressmen. The minister
saf Franc. wa; d    ' Ti canvcral1.1 with Rusia : while 4;reat Britain,
Italv. Brazil. an' Belgium hal jiat f )rnjel a friendly rulbr.
Ladlie'. ti'i. in si'ndia 1"i t , e'cortel by Secretaries and at-
tare'", tappl ministers with their fans, anil whisparel to senators,
while .nag d in th ae political dirtati,-ins for which Wahington is
fam' us.
The tran er .aw Ca   il Stalih ii the centre f a griup of
laii  ant a"ntlnin. n I i a- Iking hs way toward; him, he was
gre'eI l ay ,ver, 1  f i ad :
-- h.'r. da id yo ume trn'
"' Just tr mi o'1p. -  ha   r! uh.
I am trVin *t t et an a 'allnity ti canratilate the (olonel on
his sati- rituri.  Y~.. k a  led. ' 1 11 it lrilint char' i the acoantre
of the lar'a1,  Which ha a-, Ia m Uh talk' -  1 aaut : an'! ,is"c' hae is
a staunch Ipublican. thire i; na d -t he will wear a  -ilver star
Ibe.fre the week i' oUt.
--i 'a!d avei . are y.an talking: .7 t' iinA Ctan ish : ' ter-
poe1a very r'retty w mnan. wl .,a liv a di'ur'- was suppoised
to s ath'  th  %#r- iA X  i lrai f a'  m , r  ft th. 4 .inet.  - Isn't
he hanl-. .i Ai'I th MIll r'l rm i tat w adan t     . sort
f troizn  va- j kn.w.  Lio' 0 1it  "alis.ury  ha,  la'  tin mr
abfouit  the t  1   tr1 Of.  Ila  t i ik i,i  brit b-I  i   h  teth-  ait.  hiW
swtr. Iwith  hi- ,  ft  hand. an  I  a  ut -  n'' an .ort   Tne
 Lieutent ,y" hi reimnat wv r'b1  hi. a i 1:1W.-U I I .aiw him
to  -to a very niaiihty place. hi . I. hut at' a' ''nr- that -, a 4 true.
bieca'usli a r hani. 'mw Colon.-] w U  n 1''
--a Nit a. nu4h :!kant tyli. I          'h 'ranzr
tried  ts 'p i, hI*r.


178

179

IU&amp;-

TANDaS.

right arm of his belongs to Art. Touching, isn't it? And Salisbury
thinks he will always wear that funny box, for all the world like a
knife tray, whenever he goes into action. Do you think so?" the
lady paused for breath, and the stranger hastened to say, "That since
Lieutenant Salisbury had shown himself so intimately acquainted
with Colonel Standish, he should not presume to differ from him on
the important point of the knife tray; " and gliding rapidly by her
with a bow, he hoped to reach his host, but was again disappointed.
He could not penetrate the circle about Horace, which was appar-
ently urging hi to do something which he was trying to escape
from.
" What is all this fuss about ? " asked the stranger of his friend
Barclay, whom he came in contact with at this moment.
Barclay was an exquisite of the first water, whose gloves and cravat-
tie were faultless. Faultless, too, was his kind heart: but as the
gloves and cravat-tie stood first in the estimation of their owner, his
friends unconsci usly fell into his way of thinking. Of his head, it
need only be said that it was not so heavy as to disturb the balance
of his light heels, as he glided over the floor, revolving, reversing,
to the right, to the left, now skimming rapidly forwa. and now
gliding backward, but never allowing the g    rfo   of his part-
ner's dress to be injured by contact with the elu *  couple who
encumbered the room. Such was Barcla?      Sprig's words, in the
Book of Bubbles, define his position in Washington society.
*   " I can't chatter or talk. but I'Im cock of the walk,
For I lead the great German Cotillon."
"I can't quite make out," answered Barclay, "what the fuss is
about: but they want the Colonel to sing something. Yoi know
he 's a capital fellow for a song. Listen, and let 's hear what that
Ii vely Miss Leslie is saving to him."
"Dear Colonel Standish, this is Washington's birthday. and I am
sure. if his spirit is hovering over us. it would love so to hear that
Ode: and besides (with a coquettish glance), I will play the accom-
paniment for you."
Horace laughed. "Your arguments are irresistible, Miss Leslie:"
and instantly offering her his arm. led her to the piano. The lady
struck a few ch'r-ls. and then Standish's rich tenor voice filled the
room with that stirring Ode which was. sang by the union party in
Charleston on the 4th tof July. 131, when nullification was rife.
Hail, our country's natal morn!
Hail, our spreading kindred born!
Hail, thou banner. not yet tcirn'
Waving o'er the free!
While thi" day in festire throng,
Millions swell the patriot's song,
Shanl we not the note prolong?
Hallowed jubilee.
" Who would sever Freedomn's shrine?
Who would draw the inridious~ line ?
Though by birth one s'pot be mine,
Dt-ar is all the rest - -

Der o m the eSoWu'shfr l ad,-
Dear the  I        in  n-
Dear New Egad's rocky strad,--
Dear the prmWed   .
"By ow-lan pe n d feeo
By our laws' ihep-rooedtree,
By the ps dread me-y,
By our Washinton;-
By our   en kindred tongue!
By our hopes, - brigtO,  yant, young,-
By the t o( cmMy strong,
We will still be one.
"Fathm! have ye bled in vain?
Ages, must you droop again?
Maker, shal we rashly tain
IBlessins sent byTmer?
No! receive our solmvow.
While before thy throne we bow,
Ever to maintain as now,
Union -Lberty
It is impossible to say whether the Father of his Country, indulg-
ing in the birthday excursion Miss Leslie ascribed to him, enjoyed
the music. but it is certain the embodied spirits present applauded
so loudly, that Horace was glad to break away from them and greet
the stranger. whom he caught sight of at this moment.
"Come ito the dancing-room," he whispered, "and we 11 have a
nice chat."
Scarcely had they found a quiet corner, however, when our hero
was called away by a message from his wife; some guests had
arrived, to whom he must be introduced. About the stranger, as he
leaned against the wall, watching the dancers, there gathered Barclay,
and so-me two or three other beaux.
First Beau. " Barclav, it 's time you were married."
Time enough for that, say I:" and Barclay twisted his moustache.
Seend Beau. "No time 'ike the present. There 's Miss Mow-
brav, - she 's handsome, and -rich t : wAy don't you try yvur luck
with ther ~
B.arcav. "Oh! not fir w orlls. 'Porn my word, there 's some-
thing about that girl makes ul   shudder. Sthe 's strong-mded,
I think."
second Beau. "Nonsense. Barclay: that 's an idle excuse. You
don't know what strong-minded means.
Barclay. -- Yes, I do: don't I ' (appealing to his friend, whom
he see'me'l to have brought to Washington, to speak for him.)
Stranger  ". You know what vou mean by it. - that she prefers
to make her little excursions without an escort, a carpet-bag in one
hand, and an umbrella in the other." c
Barclay.   - Yet. so I do, that s a fact. What a sharp fellow you
are!  I met her going to Baltimore, ut as you -a aIt    ek  a
when I offered to take care of her, she let me know tha  h   a
quite as much at home in the cars as I could be."
SFirst Beau. " But that 's such a trifle, a fellow should n't let i
interfere with his settling himself." .
Barclay. "Yes he shoul t.o, sh'i uth?

I


180

181

STANDISH.

STANDISH.

Stranger. "Cela depende; there is no position without its advan-
tages. You remember the old story, -it's in Joe Miller, I dare
say, -of the deathbed of the man who had married one of these
strong-minded females. 'My friend,' said the clergyman, 'this is a
fearful journey you are about to take; are you prepared to meet the
King of Terrors ?' 'Please God, sir, I am,' replied the dying man,
'seeing as I 've lived with the Queen so long.'''o
While the three young men were laughing at this story, which was
just suited to their calibre, a strange change came over thair com-
panions face. His eyes, usually so calm and penetrating, gave a
sudden flash. a spasm contracted his mouth, and his lips grew white.
It passed away, leaving him a little paler and sterner than before.
but his ey.s remained tixed upin a young girl who had nteretd th
room on the arm of a gentleman, and was standing with her back
towards them.
First Beau. " Mis Campbell is lovely !I must remind her of my
waltz. There, she is taking out her taIletsI'
Second I4hv.  Putting up his eye-glass.  " Where is :he ? I
don t M ie.
First Beau.  " Just in front 1f u, in white, with lilih' o4f the
valley in her h:air. which l,k f or all the w4'rld like real, n''s."
Barclay.  %Vlh unusual animation.  '" They are real. There is
nothing arthijal about 3i Caiplbell. Li1i's fit' the valley are he'r
favirit, i-wers : she tld Ine so. She has a bunch of them in her
First B'a,.  - Ah  that 's it, is it ? Thvy are natural. are they ?
An I vu s:.t. them to her: but where thi deuce Voiu f ntd themi at
, it i            -l puzzle a wiser fillow than Vou. BarcLy. toi tell.
~It \M~.Cm~hd.i it :
Barclav.   N   it 's iit Mis Campbe.tll. But anyby mizht be
glad t, iave' hr fr a wife, she 's s pretty an I pek'. -- I ht tall
w 'nen. - and rich. to1o, they say.'-
SecBnd Ba     --i.  You mercenary fellow:
Barclay. - That -s not mercenary, to think it no harm fr a wman
you  ailuire to b),  ri . is it ?".
Stran: r. , -  rt ainly not. Barclay w tu' I x t n.Arv: r rnney,
because h-  nt t I' I ubt : hut h w uld nU1 t 1 mIarry wAOithut it.
for he i uw!!!in  ti le s44 I ! "All three y ing men.~ --a: ha
ha! Capital .1 i xV giod
The lady in qioti-oi was now wlt.:in: a shi prraithed the
rner iof the r  . wl-re our party! .t1. I h.1  I.ked 'p. and met
le stern :IlanI It th pstran:er ixoe'. up o'n h--r. ,h' b--nm faint,
h#4: I h. -r parf'  t .t p an I lit her rit  a. he rel- m.l her. sh"
St't1r1. au-I w ul- hav' llein. i I nit thle stran er. whi hai pushed
. way to h,- i  . tak-n her arm, in a firmr grasp. al drawn it
M    4    4mp11h is faint : the h''at is t e much for her h're." h
c'o.lly r -- irk .1 ti h.'r a'dtinishedl partni'r. "' I will take her to) Mrs.
Stin I-.' al th'n carrie' I her oit' in a'm exactly o ppoit'edirectioen,
int. a lit . etier-mn. which ni i nme hal yet foundl their way to.
SeatimZ Mlinnie upon the couch, lie arran:;el the cuiiions so that
The   l Id  V Im b irk uip.': then. pu imr' 'ut a glass of water, and put
it to her 1ip. - She drank it, opee- her *ee for a nmem'nrt, saw the

0
kind. anxious look with which Mr. Talbot, for he it was, bent over
her, and closed them again.
" How do you feel now?"
- Better, thank you."
" I will bring you some ice. -g
SOh. n1. I want nothing more: .bt he wassgone, and einie
Ilav back upon the cushions, thinking how pleasant it was to be taken
arey ba n he cuelinst wold be to waken her from this sweet
care of, andl how eruel it wou
dream.  -returedin less than five minutes with a plate of sherbet:
what    r knwtreLeuS were explored, or what persuasions used v
htaituit.wregions~ reved, elie held the plate before Minnie while
"be eat it. w.%hen half through, it seemed too much trouble to lift the
heany iir to her lips,,- and he said, "Thank you, that will do."
Itk "  r  J t   &amp; r % ip a.  n t
T .  w  i t . i   ''1tc ": a the  reut.  h beyed.  H e  brought  her  som e
wiT. wiak                        or drntk thoit, d. On handing him back the
LinS.  whi"  e rd   t  i  ou  a  ere  in  his  face, and  the  sweet
epr.i         .a h'  r tiire, gaveher curale to say. " Why did you
frown s, up4isn m-  Perhaps you don't like round dances: if so I
will yie rlAncm.' t ho  again.
Would danet m    a    .ik ua sacrifice to please me? " Edward
tI"mzan. fr hehaEl iormpletelv forgotten himself in the delight of
takin. ftro fhr h  thepstn  in    e adled. in an entirely different
tn     Yu -hoeull consult Mr. Stone's wishes, not miie. in this
m   i- i  l   -btit her lip  Her sweet dreams were over: she
i"" be'nr'illv awakened.   Riing. she said with dignit. " Will
take III ba. k to the dancing r-ro)m  I am engaged to Mr. Barclay
fr  the  e  tB  -n.11"l  it  is  to  1be rin  bf, re  supper
~j ~I v  Mr Talliot zrave her his; arm. and lbt her to tLe two chairs
- ntly  a 1v.  I  aloiat  II pa e e i s  a  t  w h ich  B are ay  h o v ered ,
laIc-d slv witinint r his partner.  Then with a stride, he passed
Uygh tit' entr, ani the fruit 'or closed upon him.
CHAPTER         XLVII.
-   ETmI dmLwar4.e .'   C lonelyl Standish. and
t    1 ' '.  t  r nm       h hi'  n I his wife  ; but Miss  Camp-
T  --m.   ,, wn .4toir --,he was to. tired to receive
haArn n he ran: thebe. an I without addressing a
wrI t Pie~,rvat.     im. and entered the drawinz-ro'm.
Mini to  t  r~'  ,h  tart"' i mp I lluI'br and then resumeifd her
n"i.wt  an *rt at conmpesur-. M1r.Tabiit came and stood before
her. a with f   'n, bl!Ii'r hy up      y iu: yeu hive tried to
avoid this mntA-r' igw, but there i., a my~tery whiieb yo~u must el*-ar up,


1r&amp;111SH. j1

183

and then you shal dictate the exact terms of our future intercourse.
Are you willing to answer me a few question.? n.
Minnie bowed her head, in token of aset.
Are you engfed to Mr. Stone ?''
"Mr. Stone again!IThis is- insulting!" and she rose up angrily,
intending to leave the room.,
-But Edward laid his hand upon her arm, looked her steadily in
the face, and said in his sternest tone, " I have suffered too much to
be put off now. Sit down and answer my questions. Ten, minutes
isal I ask :You need only say yes, or no."
Poor Minnie looked arouse her, but there seemed no escape. The
drawing-room door was shut, and before her stood  pitiless man,
with his calm face, and resolute look. So sinking down in a chair,
she turned away her head, and answered "No."
Do you love Mr. Stone'
"No."
"Have you ever loved him?'
No, though you were so kind as to recommend him to me as a
husband."
"IHush, child: those sweet lips were never made.for ironv. This
is very strange."  And the Chaplain paced the room with a rapid
step. Coming back to his old place, he said,'" One question more,
and I have done. Turn your face towards me."  Mechanically she
obeyed.   Tell me why you did not answer my last letter. Because
afer afund ou had      enYour own feelings, you did not love me
A burning blush covered Minnie's face; she started up in desper-
ation.
': You shall not torture me any more: you are cruel and ungener-
ou s, as well as fickle. Stand aside. I will go.,
"4As far as my arms, Minnie, and from them to the altar.  There
is something I cannot understand in all this.  But you do love me,
vou cannot deny it: you have loI me all this time."  And Mr.
Talbot pressed her to his heart with a passionate longing, which
struggled against, and unsatis6ed. would take no denial now.
The sulden change. from indignation to joy. was too much or
Minnie: her color fad away, she utteredta wild cry, threw one arm
round his neck, and sobbed upc-)n his breast.
I am cruel t.) you, my darling. First, I make you suffer from my
bitterness. anl then from my rapture:" and he puthel back the
heavy folds of her soft brown hair, and kissed her soAfl br'awn eves,
then drew her gently to the sofa, anti seated himself l'v her side'
Silently he wated her. until the serene expression came back upon
her face, - the serenity of a cloudless heaven, as it always seemed
to Edward. - Now tell me
Not a word nmore." (ana she held up her fingr reprovingly).
"Yaau seem ta think I ami made t4- answer questions.  I am t4-o
tired and happy to talk any more :" and she laid her head on his
shoulder.
But there could be no rest for her lover's eager, penetrating
spirit, until it had found out the whole truth. Changing his tone
to one of entreaty he said, "I know Iwear you, but have ptec
passionately I have loved you all this time. I was no sentimental

. 182

I

STANDmS.

youth, treasuring up a tender passion: but a hard, stern  n, who
had allowed a child to twine about. his heart-trings, and grow up
there. When he believed her faithless, he bamihed her from his
thoughts, and would have torn her from his heart, but he could
not : with every fresh struggle, he only uprooted the softer and
gentler parts of his nature. I ask you to restore me to myself,
drive away my jealous doubts. give me back my peace, by telling
me why you left my last letter unanswered."
Minnie raised her head, and said very gently, "If you really
love me so much, I will do exactly what you please. Your last
letter was about your brother's death.  I answered it the same
evening.  A foolish answer I dare say -all blotted   with my
tears "
"; Nt that -not that," Edward interrupted impatiently, "the
next letter, where I confessed tyo vou I was too weak for the sacri-
fice I had proposed, and begged you to give me a formal promise,
and let our engagement be publicly acknowledged."
"D d you recall wte such a letter  All this unhappiness would
have teen saved had I received it.''itiar       Mr. Talbot's
hand in b-oth of hers and pressed it to her heart, looking up at
him Withthat expression of perfect faith, which always touched him
deepim and made him feel his own unworthiness. Then with her
(Old Say smile. she said, "But the questions have been long
enough I- one side. Now. Mr. Chaplain, it 's your turn to answer.
Why nid viu violate all the rules of morality and chivalry, by rec-
mmending to the lady of your choice another lover."
Etdward C laughed: theW first really honest laugh since Harryv's
death. -Were you very angry with me. Minnie?
San 'ry and hurt, too. - wounded to the heart. I thought
it was your way of letting me know yvu were tired of meo fi
"And yet you     not engage .(ar-el' to Mr.
You will never make a woman.
shall too: I have grown a great deal in the last few months.
Don't vou see how tall I am"
-Just as high as my heart. - Bt how strange it is that all the
otherletters I ever %-%ent to)t. Paul's have gone safely except this
one which I directed  carefully. anal mailed with my own hands:"
anal 1Mr. TAlbot fell inti) a revf'rv. Sdl'l11,li' wll   od
came  ra-a-kinto hisiM(n' arv. With  prfet distinctness. -  '' I cannot
bear t     intyou suffer. I did not think - I will undo it -gie the
kier to-ku" an f with them the truth flashed upon him.
"tFalse   intriguing wom n! tShe it was. who stole Minnie's letter
an'l mal. nMr.g    apply to  me,  Faol! I have no patience
withn malf: I was her aupe even in that last interview  If all
w     ef pI   l wI haveahbeeneuwhyr-the
women would have to flirt togrethoir -
A   nA thewe  thaui  ht!   pa,%w-dthr rh  thp  Chaplain' maind,  his  ex-
A  theeth.hs   p        rful adevere. that Minnie drew more.
closlio becam se ana raise an, vs  itulyt his: thn he
cloeay to feel soied wth him' elf  The  an tha Minnie loved
bel' nt fe re ba i a fellow after all  Putting his arm round her
eant ht looked down upon her with a 'sweet, tender smile, as rare
as it was beautiful. upon his fae.


184

STANDIs.

CONCLUSION.
Tan years have passed away. and the great Rebellion has been
completely crushed. In its death-struggle it had assassinated the
Chief Magistrate of the Republic, and attempted the life of the
Secretary  f : State.
A thrill of horror and indication at the foul plot spread through
the land, and vet no anarchy or disorder resulted from it. such as thlt
conspirators h.d hoped for. Calmly. Jihison assumed the reins of
government, and the American pple. their liberties protected vy a
Constitution which no assa ssius knife hai power to harm. saw wavini
over them a flag with every star rest'rted, and ever stain washIed
out in the blood of self-sacri-ice.
" There is no place like'home," sail lorace, with a sigh of satis-
faction. a reflection commnu to al Bostonians ; and this one seemedI
to be taking life yerv easily just then.
In fact. dreSed as he wa.. in a loose artist's cstun.   Mi
tress iEla was pleased to consider as the t1'ri it unipardrnaleI
vanity. lso!ling in a lartrp bay winidw which m erloke I the Public
Garden. and gazing placidly through a clt u.d of .!n. ke wiaip h thioatel
upward from a cigar hell ~in an ambe-r mouth-pice: it woul i hav.
been hail to find a mniore peaceful. comfortale-lookinv individual,
and few peple beside a Balzae or a Thackerav would have sptiected
this to be t:e dauntless. re'oluti' 4.ueral StalndiAh. w 3 hal bela s-
much talk"'d about duril the war.
Oh. Hlorace. how c'ull vo:' sil a voice b.hiditl himl: al
turning. 4ur hero sees and take' posses i if a fair ytounitg wi!m!an
with ieep blue eves ad r li rinz1t.nd i mot fcinratinig smil.
- Now. L n't, sir: I 'm h t  sail Mistress Standish. pr'tendin
to resist. hut turning si tha :h r  ft. r un, cheek camne t..1nptinm.ziv
near her husband's lips.
- Y4u kn wv very w#il.'' ontiniu.'d her lalyhi p. when she htd tre-
cei vedl the puniihmnit 'iIh r.-elIliona d.rv .1, -1 I askel  ep-
cialy '10 4 T ketch  ady in tha hat : it 's Xtcry 'h.a1y, al I 'vc
ordered L   w         .e a p riet beauty fr him.'
But, :AydIar Lla. th1  1ne  iof picturesque : see hw prtlv
the litt  r    hair sti ik, out ech aide of it, and one flaxen carl haS
:or-id e-~     'wee ib. ! rii of 'traw.'~ 'id lI'rve'. lauzingv.
is he hiK ket, b a ar 1K. I K. '-Iki:.: ! v. what is t' h:i-
Aly i im:~e child1.
At ta~ n e'nt t..h it mi' b ribaN'- nise known bv nirs.~
row.  ' i  e1. l  6-i ' ri'inaiz~ l  if  the  sk4't.h  sti'd  bhef r'  ha
.ast ii h lid prent,. h     aL his tw.v lit tle hands a hug.' gi.a-
Iarnp-h 1 l
*That *rirht :i ro ik i  !   'lanu away generally: ''"H r
t ri-I 't. dliht-I with b'-:..-i.'v us ti'ndlyneiies of his - : :m
heir.
-- N :uhty II dli.. ~ t.e   Umpans-hadle :  *ie it tee mamma .
an i Ella g':nrly di'n.: d a:-. ia:.g.rrus piaytLag :r'w the taty'
arms, and laid it uponi the t4ae.

S'rADISH.                      185
The boy's lip quivered, but he was a manly little fellow, and would
have gulped down his disappointment, while his mother's tact pro-
vided him with some other amusement, if it had not been for that in-
corrigible father of his. Back he lolled in the bay window, laughing
heartily, and calling out, "Come on, darling; break up everything in
the house ; here 's a window to begin -
This was too much for the bv's fseftrol : his sensitive feelings
detected-the irony in his father's inifon, and his little molath be-
gan to work, and his eyes to till with tears, when Ella caught him n
her arms, kissed the tears from his eyes, while she won back his
smiles by her playful caresses, scolding her husband all the time.
"How unkind you are, Ilorace, to treat baby so. Kiss me again,
little one. Here 's mamma's watch-chain, with all tie pretty charms
upon it. If you lost your eigar and mouth-piece out of the window,
the playthincrs of- your nper age, would you like baby and I to
laugh at you   It's a perfect shame in its father to tease this dar-
ling baby so! Hoddie, tell mamma what the lion says, and you shall
go to the menagerie again with Debby, this afternoon.
During this scolding and soothing process, Hlorace became quite
subdued; indeed. he now felt himself to be the naughty boy, and be-
gan to wonder what steps he must take to restore himself to favor.
But woman's tenderness and forgiveness are unfathomable. Pres-
ently Ella came and leaned her head against the bosom of the
artist's blouse, and laid her little boy's beside it, while the wearer
thereof encircled both with a pair of manly arms.
So you see the curtain falls on I touching family picture. And,
although Horace II. seems in a fair way to become what the world
calls *pl4, yet we will comfort ourselves with the thought that he
will have knocking about enough, in that same world, to make up for
a good deal of home petting.
24

li

I


                                                                                                                                                                                           
             
         
       
   
