
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Brigand, or, The Mountain Chief .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6926
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            The most Captivating Romance ever Published. 
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
             
               THE BRIGAND, 
               OR THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "GALLANT TOM," "YANKEE JACK," ETC. 
            Illustrated. 
            THIS work cannot fail to excite the deep interest of every one who opens its pages. The life and exploits of Alessandro Massaroni, the Robin Hood of Italy, have formed the theme of many a romance and song; but the career and character of that famous bandit have never been so fully and graphically exhibited as the reader will find them to be in the bold "Brigand, or the Mountain Chief." The work is powerfully written, and the scenes so life-like, that the imagination insensibly yields to the magic of the author, and the reader cannot help fancying himself among the picturesque mountain passes near Rome, surrounded by all the enchantment, the mystery, the terror and the chivalry which characterized that strange era of Italian brigandism, in which Alessandro Massaroni was the master spirit. It is a wonderful book. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER,  
                     43 ANN-STREET. 
                  
               
             
            
                
                  Just published, the following Sea Tales:- 
                  THE THREE PIRATES. By Harry Hazel. Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
                  BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor. Illustrated 50 cts. 
                  THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated 50 cts. 
                  JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman Illustrated 25 cts. 
                  GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean Illustrated 25 cts. 
                  THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Mysterious Tale of the Sea. Illust. 25 cts. 
               
             
          
          
             
            THE GUERILLA CHIEF, 
            OR THE ROMANCE OF WAR. 
            SUPERIOR TO CHARLES O'MALLEY. 
            ILLUSTRATED PRICE 50 CTS. 
            
                
             
            BY CAPT. GRANT. 
             
               NOTICES OF THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               All the vivid descriptions of the scenes of war, and the graphic picturing of the soldier's life, that lent such a charm to Lever's "Charles O'Malley," are equalled, and in a great many instances surpassed by the "Guerilla Chief, or the Romance of War." There is more of the "wildness" of war, if we may so express it, in which the romantic daring, the fierce cruelty, and the reckless bravery of the bandit chief, are mingled in a thrilling manner with the achievements of the courageous and honorable soldier. It is the most intensely interesting episode of war that we have ever read.-Critic.
                
               We know not when we have taken up a book that has enchained our attention to so great a degree as has the "Guerilla Chief, or the Romance of War." The incidents throughout are of the most exciting nature, extending in their range from the field of battle, and adventures among Guerilla bandits, to the boudoir, where the notes of war are hushed by those of love. Monks, robbers, and brave soldiers, all pass in a panorama before us, drawn by the hand of a master.-Examiner.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
               JUST PUBLISHED-"BEN BRACE: a Nautical Romance. By CAPTAIN CHAMIER." Beautifully Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               THE BRIGAND: 
               OR, THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "GALLANT TOM," "THE THREE PIRATES," "THE FLYING ARTILLERIST," &c., &c. 
            BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER.  
                     43 ANN-STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-two, by H. LONG & BROTHER, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
          
       
      
         
            The brigand, or, The mountain chief 
             
            THE BRIGAND; 
            OR, THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  The Libertine and his Victim.-The tale of Sorrow.-The Brigand Chief.-The extorted Oath.-The Compact.-The sudden attack on Massaroni. 
                
               "BUT he comes not, and my heart misgives me. It is past the hour at which he appointed to meet me, and if now he should fail, my last hope is gone. Oh, Alberti, should you deceive me-but no-I will not entertain the thought, for that would drive me to madness, after sacrificing all for your dear sake. No, no, you, sweet, innocent pledge of our affections, must bind you to your promise. Alberti, dearest Alberti, on whom my very soul is riveted, if the poor foundling girl was worthy of your love, high even as your rank and station, why, oh, why was she not your bride ere now?" 
               Such were the words uttered in silvery but melancholy tones by the lovely Olympia as she anxiously gazed from the lattice of the humble but comfortable room in which she was seated. Her fair bosom heaved with the contending passions, which at that moment struggled within it, and tears trembled on her dark silken eye-lashes. 
                
               "He will not come!" she once more sighed forth, and arising from her seat, she turned disconsolately away from the lattice and approached her sleeping infant. 
               All a young mother's fondness she evinced in the kisses bestowed upon the babe, and her scalding tears flowed fast. 
               Soon, there was a knock at the door, and Olympia started from her seat. 
               "Tis Alberti! oh, Heaven be thanked!" she said, as with trembling haste she went to the door, which she opened, but starting back with a faint shriek of alarm and disappointment, when instead of him she expected, a stranger presented himself. It was a man dressed in the humble garb of a peasant, and whose features were almost concealed by huge black whiskers. 
               "Be not alarmed, fair Olympia," said he, in a respectful tone and manner, "I am a poor traveler, who am weary and footsore, and merely request you to allow me to rest myself for a few moments in your dwelling." 
               "Ah! know you then my name?" she asked. 
               "Even so," he replied, walking deliberately into the room, and closing the door behind him. 
               Olympia shrunk from him, and could hardly refrain from screaming aloud. 
               "Lovely signora," he said, "I beg you not to be alarmed, for no harm can come to you while I am here." 
               "Who are you?" asked Olympia, in a faint voice. 
               "Your friend, and the mortal enemy of your betrayer, Count Alberti d'Amalfi." 
               "Gracious Heaven!" cried the astonished Olympia:-"how know you this? and what is your purpose here?" 
               "I come to warn you. The count has appointed to meet you this evening; you expect him ere this; you start, but do I not speak the truth?" 
               "Alas, you do. But by what means has this come to your knowledge, and why should you take such an interest in what concerns me?" 
                
               "It matters not. I have told you I am your friend, and when you know me better, you will find that I am not a friend to be despised. Alberti has promised that he will this night finally fix the day when he will render you justice by making you his bride. Oh, signora, be not deceived by him; treachery lurks in his guilty breast." 
               "Great God of heaven," cried the horror-struck Olympia, "stranger, can you speak the truth?" 
               "You need not doubt me. He will endeavor to persuade you to quit this neighborhood for the present, so that he may the better be enabled to carry his diabolical plans to get rid of you and your child altogether, into effect. The Count will never make the poor foundling girl of his parents his bride." 
               "Ah," ejaculated Olympia, with increased astonishment, "you know my history?" 
               "I do, signora. It is briefly this. Some twenty years ago an infant was found at the portico of the Villa Novo, and kindly taken in by the Count Alberti's father, and as its parents could never be discovered, it was brought up and cherished in the family with the same care as if it had been one of their own. That child was you, Signora Olympia. Years flew on, and your charms inspired a passion in the young count's breast. With subtle arts, he triumphed over your woman's weakness, and in a fatal hour you became his victim." 
               "Alas! alas!" sobbed the blushing Olympia, with feelings of the most inexpressible agony. 
               "To conceal his baseness, he persuaded you to leave that roof beneath which you had ever found a home, and to seek a refuge here, solemnly promising that he would at some future period snatch you from that shame into which he had plunged you. Is not this correct, Signora?" 
               "Would to Heaven it were not!" she replied; "but tell me, who are you that are so well versed in my unfortunate history?" 
               "That you will shortly know. My business here is to protect you from the danger that threatens you, and you will find that I have the power as well as the will to perform what I say. But, hist, I hear footsteps approaching. It is probably he!" 
               "Sancta Marie! what will become of me, stranger, should he find you here?" ejaculated Olympia. "Hark-a knock! All is lost, if you do not instantly fly." 
               The knock was repeated. 
               "I must not leave the place," said the stranger; "I will conceal myself in the yonder room-fear not." 
               Immediately he darted into the apartment beyond, and cautiously closed the door after him, and Olympia, with a trembling hand, opened the outer door and gave admission to the Count Alberti. 
               "Dear Olympia," said the count, embracing her, "why this delay in giving me admission? But you are pale and agitated; why do you shrink from my embrace?" 
               "I-I-feared you would not come," faltered out Olympia; "but, pardon me, dear Alberti, you are now present, and I will try to be happy. See, our little one sleeps in innocence and tranquillity. Oh, may kind Providence decree that she shall never experience a moment's sorrow; but should she never know a father's care--" 
               She paused, for her emotions would not suffer her to proceed. The count felt confused, and said- 
               "Come, Olympia, you must not give way to these sad feelings, I thought to find you all smiles and joyful expectation, considering the important business I was to meet you upon this evening." 
               "Beloved Alberti," said Olympia, hope reviving in her breast; "you have not then forgotten your promise, you will name the blissful day when I may call you my lawful lord, and set the world's scandal at defiance." 
               "Yes, yes," faltered out the count, confusedly; "but my sweet Olympia must somewhat subdue the ardor of her feelings. I had hoped now to have been able to name the day of our nuptials, but-but-" 
                
               "But what?" gasped Olympia, her heart sinking within her; "do not, I beseech you, keep me in suspense." 
               "Be calm, my Olympia; circumstances, over which I have no control, render it impossible for me to fulfil my promise for some months to come, and in the meantime, I wish you to retire to the house of an amiable signora, who will-" 
               "Oh, God!" interrupted the distracted Olympia, falling upon her knees and clinging to him. "Alberti, my soul's idol, have mercy or me and your child, and do not thus cruelly abandon us to misery and despair.-You have solemnly vowed in the face of high Heaven to make me your lawful bride, and you cannot thus heartlessly and recklessly break your oath!" 
               "This is but a waste of time," said the count, coldly. "I will not be detained;-you have heard my decision, and must abide by it!" 
               With these words he violently released himself from the wretched woman's grasp, and was about to hasten from the house, when the stranger suddenly darted from the room in which he had been concealed, and stood before him. 
               "Hold, monster!" he exclaimed, in a commanding voice! "I must have a few words with you ere you depart." 
               Nothing could exceed the rage and astonishment of the count at this unexpected intrusion, and he fixed a malicious look upon the trembling Olympia, who covered her face with her hands and sobbed with agony and terror. 
               "Nay," said the unknown, "blame not this unfortunate woman for my appearance here; she knew not of my coming, and I am a perfect stranger to her." 
               "Insolent intruder," cried the count passionately, "for what purpose do you presume to appear before me?" 
               "Pr'ythee do not ruffle your temper, signor," said the stranger in tones of the most studied politeness; "I came here simply to see justice done this lady, and you shall render it too ere you quit this place." 
               "Ah! dare you threaten?" 
                
               "Yes, I dare threaten a score of men such as he that stands before me!" 
               "Insolent varlet!" exclaimed the count, as he drew a stiletto and rushed forward, "this to punish you for your daring!" 
               The stranger, however, wrenched the stiletto from the count's grasp with the greatest ease, and hurling him to the other side of the room, he laughed aloud. 
               "Dog!" cried the enraged nobleman, "you are not aware that it is the Count Alberti d'Amalfi, upon whom you commit this outrage?" 
               "Yes!" replied the other with a smile. 
               "I demand to know your name!" 
               "It is not to your demand I yield; but in compliance with my own will. I am-" 
               "Who?" eagerly asked the count and the lady, in a breath. 
               "ALLESSANDRO MASSARONI, the Brigand Chief!" and throwing by his peasant's dress, and removing the false whiskers, that daring man stood confessed before them! 
               Olympia uttered a cry of horror upon this discovery, and the astonishment and alarm of the count almost deprived him of the power of speech. 
               The Brigand removed his carbine, which had been slung to his back beneath his peasant's garb, and placing his elbow upon the muzzle, gazed at the count with an ironical smile of triumph. The brigand chief was a remarkably handsome man, about thirty years of age, and there was a wicked smile constantly playing about his bronzed features, showing the natural daring, yet withal infinite humor of his character. 
               His figure was a perfect model of manly grace, and the costume he wore added much to the interest of his appearance. It consisted of a rich green velvet jacket, and breeches of the same; red striped vest, and a bright scarlet sash, encircling his waist; he wore canvas stockings with sandals; his head was surmounted by a high Spanish hat, decorated with feathers and ribbons; round his neck hung a loose cravat, and he wore a profusion of jewelry; a cross suspended by a gold chain- several orders, watches, &c.-His belt was well provided with pistols and stilettos, for he was always well prepared for self-defence upon all occasions. 
               "Well, Count Alberti," said the brigand, smilingly, "what think you now of the dog, eh? But, pray be seated, count, for I have much to say to you before we separate." 
               "Massaroni," urged Olympia, "I implore you to leave this place." 
               "Sweet lady," replied the brigand, politely, "I request that you will not alarm yourself; Massaroni never wages war against your lovely sex, nor does he shed blood unless compelled to do so in self-defence." 
               "What is it that you demand?" asked the count, sullenly. 
               "Justice to the fair Olympia," replied the brigand. "I am fully aware of all your designs, Count Alberti, and I am resolved to defeat them. You have brought Olympia to shame and misery, and the only atonement you can make to her, is by requiting the love she bears you by making her your bride, which you have promised so solemnly to do. I demand that you fulfil that promise." 
               "You demand!" returned the count, with a look of scorn and rage. 
               "Yes, I demand! and I need not remind you that I am not used to disobedience!" 
               "And what are the terms you would exact?" 
               "That you bind yourself by a solemn oath and a no less solemn compact, to make this lady your wife within three months from this date, or forfeit to her the sum of two hundred thousand ducats." 
               "A very modest demand, truly," replied the young nobleman, with a sneering laugh; "and what if I refuse?" 
               "You dare not!" 
               "Ah, indeed! then I tell you at once that I will not do as you desire!" 
               "We shall see, count," said the brigand, and applying a whistle to his lips, he blew a signal. He opened the door, and the room was immediately filled with his daring associates. 
                
               "By heaven! this is past all human endurance," said the nobleman; "I will not be forced into an unlawful promise." 
               "Enough, comrades! to the mountain with him!" 
               "Oh, mercy, mercy, spare him," shrieked Olympia. "What madness is this? Think you the count would consider a compact binding obtained in this manner?" 
               "But I would see that he fulfilled it to the very letter,"replied Massaroni. "Come, sir count; here are writing materials, and I've the document which only requires filling up, and your signature." 
               "Is there no way of escape?" 
               "No." 
               "I yield," said the count, sullenly; "but bear witness, Olympia, that this compact is exacted from me by intimidation." 
               "Come," said the brigand, "we waste time; "here is the document-I will read it." 
               "I, Alberti, Count d'Amalfi, do solemnly pledge myself of my own free will, and according to a promise previously made, that within three months after the present date, I will make Signorina Olympia my lawful wife, or forfeit the sum of two hundred thousand ducats on demand." 
               With feelings of the greatest indignation, the count signed the compact, and then the brigand turned towards him and said: 
               "You have done wisely; and now for the oath!" 
               "Is not that compact sufficient?" 
               "No," said Massaroni, removing a cross which was suspended from his neck. 
               The count knelt down, and receiving the cross in his hand, took the oath which Massaroni dictated to him. 
               "And now, count, beware how you seek to deceive me or Olympia, for my vengeance is as sure as it is terrible. Farewell, lady, and rest assured that a careful watch will be kept over your safety. Come, count, we will escort you part of the way home." 
               The count, after whispering a few words, suffered himself to be escorted by Massaroni and his comrades out of the house. 
                
               "Quick, comrades," said the chief, "we must hasten towards our mountain retreat, for we shall require rest for to-morrow's business." 
               Having suffered the count to depart, they hurried on for about half an hour, when they were suddenly startled by hearing the heavy and quick tramping of horses behind them. 
               "We're pursued!" cried Massaroni; "the count has given the alarm. To the narrow defile-by that way we may escape them!" 
               They did, but ere they reached it, their pursuers were close upon them. 
               "Stand firm, comrades!" shouted the chief. "We cannot avoid fighting!" 
               The brigands drew themselves up in a line, and awaited the approach of the enemy, who they now perceived were a detachment of Prince Bianchi's soldiers, who had tried every stratagem to apprehend Massaroni, but had hitherto failed. 
               Seeing the determined attitude of the brigands, the soldiers hesitated, and seemed to consult each other. Our hero took advantage of this, and dashing forward with his brave band, they opened a heavy fire upon their adversaries, which had a most destructive effect, and threw them into confusion. The combat was a brief but a bloody one, both parties fighting with great bravery and resolution; but notwithstanding the soldiers far outnumbered them, the brigands were triumphant, and after several of their companions had been slain, the soldiers fled in all directions, amid the exulting shouts of their desperate opponents. 
               "Well done, my brave comrades," said the chief; "the prince is once more disappointed, and he must wait the gratification of his desire a little longer, though perhaps he may see me much sooner than he expected." 
               None of the brigands were killed, and only two or three of them slightly wounded, and they therefore pursued their way, and were soon beyond the reach of danger. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  Mountain retreat of the Brigands.-The night watch.-The Surprise.-A mad scheme.-The Night Attack.-A Plot. 
                
               WE must now direct the reader's imagination to the lofty summit of the Guadgnola. On the brink of a precipice, beneath a huge oak tree, reposed the mountain chief. One of the band was on guard, and by the side of Massaroni, was seated Maria Grazie, the brigand's wife.-She was indeed, a handsome woman, a beautiful brunette, whose sparkling, piercing black eyes spoke the masculine daring of her spirit, and proved her a fit companion of the bold and reckless man with whom she had joined her fate. Her figure was tall, commanding, and distinguished by every grace which can render woman charming. 
               The first bright blush of morn now appeared, and soon afterwards the rest of the brigands might be seen winding their way up the mountain's side, led by Massaroni's daring lieutenant, Rubaldo. 
               Their coming to the spot aroused the chief-he started up; and seizing his hat and carbine, he greeted his band most cordially, while their shouts of "Evviva Massaroni!" rent the air. 
               "Listen, comrades," said the chief. "The Neapolitan Ambassador leaves Rome this morning on a private visit to the Villa Covisma, and carries with him a large sum of gold for a celebrated prima donna. He travels alone on this important mission. Rubaldo, you will receive his excellency at the foot of the mountain with a guard of honor; accost him with the respect due to his exalted rank, and suggest to him that the signora is rich enough already. His lordship has too much good sense not to perceive immediately the justice of your observations." 
               "Ay," replied Rubaldo, "I warrant we'll convince him." 
               "I expect that this will be a rare day of business with me. A singular piece of information has reached me with respect to the steward of the college of St. Arnulph. He is accostomed to traverse this mountain on his road to collect the rents of the college, in the disguise of a beggar, carrying generally from nine to ten thousand ducats, ingeniously concealed in-but it matters not, I have his secret-he will pass anon. Away Rubaldo, to meet the embassador. Leave me to take care of the worthy steward." 
               The brigands obeyed, leaving Massaroni and his wife alone. 
               "Hush!" said Maria, after a lapse of a few moments, "I hear footsteps." 
               Massaroni looked cautiously down the mountain, and then observed- 
               "It is the worthy steward of St. Arnulph, of whom I have been speaking. Quick! my peasant hat and cloak." 
               Maria brought them instantly from beneath the shrubs behind the rock, where they had been concealed, and assisted her husband on with them. 
               "Away," said Massaroni, "and watch the issue of Rubaldo's expedition." 
               Maria obeyed, and Massaroni watched the approach of his intended victim. 
               "The dress-the staff," he said; "yes, all agree with the description. Now, to tickle this holy trout." 
               He took his seat at the rock, beneath the tree, and, taking a dice-box from his pocket, began playing. 
               Nicolo, the old steward, now arrived at the spot, disguised as a mendicant, and supporting himself on a long staff, and weary with his journey, he paused to rest himself. 
                
               "Six for thee, holy St. Eustace," said Massaroni. 
               "Eh? what's that?" ejaculated the steward startled at the sound of a voice. 
               "And four for me," said the brigand, throwing again; "my old luck haunts me still." 
               Nicolo's amazement increased. "Why, what's that fellow about?" he said-"playing at dice by himself?" 
               "Five for thee, and three for me," continued Massaroni, not appearing to notice the steward. "Cospetto!-were it not I played with a saint, I would swear the devil were in the dice." 
               Nicolo now advanced towards the solitary gamester, and said to him: 
               "My son, thou seemest disturbed; what ails thee?" 
               "Silence, man!" returned Massaroni; "do not speak to me just as I am throwing:-ten for St. Eustace, nine for me!-Maladizzione!" he added, passionately, and throwing the dice aside. 
               "Swear not, my son," said Nicolo; "what has befallen thee?" 
               "Befallen me!" repeated Massaroni; "why, Corpo di Bacco! here hath St. Eustace won a matter of two hundred ducats from me since sunrise." 
               The steward stared at him with astonishment. 
               "St. Eustace win of thee?" he cried. 
               "Ay," replied Massaroni; 'I play with him four or five times a day, and never by any accident do I rise a winner." 
               "The fellow's mad," thought Nicolo. 
               "I'll have one more chance for my money," said the brigand; "double or quits-come, friend, see fair play." 
               "Well, I wish you good fortune," said the steward. 
               "I'll throw first this time," said Massaroni; "seven-come, viva Maria, I have a fair chance for it now." 
               "Poor wretch!" muttered Nicolo to himself; "how earnestly he plays." 
               Massaroni threw again. 
                
               
                   
                     MELINA. SEE P. 29. 
                  
                
                
                
               "Nine!" he cried; "look you there now," he said; "it's no use-four hundred ducats gone in a morning." 
               "Well, well," returned the steward; "never mind; St. Eustace will not press for payment-I'll answer for him." 
               "But it's a debt of honor, and shall be paid were it my last scudo." 
               "And to whom do you pay it, signor?" 
               "He sends me his receiver." 
               "His receiver!" repeated Nicolo, and he added aside: "he's stark mad, but very harmless, seemingly. And who may that be, signor?" he asked, aloud. 
               "Some poor soul to whom the money is an object," replied Massaroni; "thyself, for instance; for now I look at thee, thou seemest poor enough. I warrant me St. Eustace has sent thee for his winnings." 
               This aroused the cupidity of the steward. 
               "By the Mass!" he muttered to himself;-"if I thought he had the money to pay, I would not be long answering the question." 
               "Here, my friend," said Massaroni, giving him a purse, "here are two hundred ducats; all I have about me at present. I must be thy debtor till sundown for the other half." 
               "How?" 
               With wonder and delight the old steward eyed the glittering gold. 
               "Why do you hold the ducats as if they would bite you? They are yours, I say-I have lost them and paid them; and you shall find the other two hundred ducats here by sundown." 
               "Many thanks to you, noble signor," said Nicolo, pocketing the purse, "and send you better fortune another time." 
               "Enough! begone!" returned the chief. 
               The old steward, chuckling at his extraordinary good fortune, hastily departed. 
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the brigand, when he was gone; "the hook is in the old shark's gills, and if I land him not, I will turn Jesuit, and sell my carbine for a rosary." 
                
               He threw off his disguise, and at that moment Maria hastily reappeared. 
               "To arms! to arms!" said Maria; "Rubaldo is in danger. The story of the ambassador was but a snare!-the soldiers are upon us!" 
               Massaroni placed his whistle to his lips and blew it loudly, and a number of his bold associates were quickly on the spot. 
               "Follow!" cried the brigand. 
               "To the right!-through the thicket!" shouted Maria. 
               And soon the soldiers and the whole brigand force were fiercely engaged, and the latter seemed determined to yield only with their lives. Massaroni fought desperately, and in a few moments several of the enemy, including their leader, had fallen. But for some time the battle continued with the greatest bravery and determination on both sides. At length, however, the soldiers began to waver, and the chief, taking advantage of the circumstance, at the head of his daring band rushed boldly upon them, and they fled in all directions. 
               The brigands retired into their mountain retreat, and wine being produced, they regaled themselves freely. 
                
               We must now conduct the reader to the ruins of a Roman Temple. Two young men entered the ruins. One of them was a very handsome young man, but with rather a melancholy expression, while that of his companion was gay and animated. 
               "How beautifully the light falls upon this ruin," said the latter gentleman; "stay, stay, Florio; I must positively make another sketch." 
               "Be quick, then," said the other; "we can scarcely reach the villa Rosa by dinner time, and you know the prince receives company this evening. The anxiety that Melina will labor under if we are beyond our time, is an additional reason for my requesting dispatch. Though we are in no danger here. Massaroni has never yet thought proper to push his advanced posts so near to Rome." 
                
               "I should like to see that fellow amazingly," said Theodore; "he does things with a high hand by accounts." 
               "He is the Robin Hood of Italy," said Florio; "he takes from the rich to give to the poor-generous, daring, and fond of frolic-he never sheds blood but in his own defense; and he is renowned for a sense of justice, which makes him the umpire upon all occasions of dispute among the peasantry, who seek him for counsel, assistance, and revenge." 
               "You have caught Melina's enthusiasm," said Theodore, "respecting this brigand.-Egad! Florio, you're a lucky dog to have inspired the niece of Prince Bianchi with a tender passion. You, a poor devil of an artist, with but twelve hundred francs per annum." 
               They were about to depart, but they had only just emerged from the ruins, when Maria, Rubaldo, and two more brigands crossed their path. 
               "Stand!" commanded Rubaldo. 
               "Robbers!" said Theodore aside to his companion; "I have my wish at any rate." 
               "What would you?" demanded Florio. 
               "Can't you guess?" asked Rubaldo;-"money." 
               "They are but three," whispered Theodore, "the woman counts for nothing; knock down that fellow." 
               Florio immediately made a rush at one of the brigands, Theodore seized the carbine of Rubaldo, and the other brigand and Maria drew forth their stilettos. The consequences must have been fatal to the two young men, but at that critical moment Massaroni, with two or three more of his band, rushed to the spot, and beating up the carbine of Rubaldo who, having overthrown Theodore, had leveled the deadly weapon at his head, exclaimed in a commanding voice: 
               "Hold! hold! Maria-Rubaldo! two unarmed travelers! Pardon, young gentlemen, the hasty temper of my friends here." 
               "Why, here is a thief of quality now!" said Theodore aside; "a gentlemanly highwayman who will hear reason, I'll warrant.-Your name, signor, is-" 
                
               "Massaroni!" he replied. 
               "As I suspected," remarked Theodore to his companion-'there's a head for a study!" 
               "Your custom," said Florio, addressing the chief, "is, I believe, to make prisoners and demand ransoms? what sum do you fix upon for ours?" 
               "You are artists, apparently?" 
               "Students of the French Academy," replied Theodore, "and as poor as Job." 
               "But you have friends, I dare say," said the chief, "who will not grudge two thousand scudi for you?" 
               "They are the friends of Bianchi," said Maria, angrily; "two thousand scudi are insufficient." 
               "Friends of the Prince!" said the chief; "nay, then, gentlemen, I must treble the sum at least." 
               "No-no ransom!" cried Rubaldo; "the friends of the Prince are our deadliest foes. They shall not live!" 
               "Who says they shall not live?" demanded the chief, authoritatively. "They shall not live who dare dispute my will!" 
               Rubaldo was awed into silence, and Theodore said aside to Florio: 
               "There's a position!-if he would but keep so five minutes." He sketched hurriedly as he spoke, the chief not observing him. 
               "Massaroni, hear me," said Florio; "you have saved our lives, and we shall be frank with you. The Prince Bianchi esteems me, and would not, under other circumstances, grudge the sum you demand. Should I send for any sum to buy our ransom, he'd send soldiers, instead of money." 
               "Indeed!" said the chief, scornfully-"the soldiers of Rome! Ha! ha!-he sent some this morning-they have galloped back to the Eternal City faster and fewer than they left it. Say you this," he added sternly, "to intimidate Massaroni?" 
               "No," replied Florio; "for I know him brave, as I am told he is generous. You fix the ransom at six thousand scudi; let me go and send them." 
               "Your companion then will remain our hostage?" 
                
               "No; his absence would awaken the suspicion of the prince. Give us our liberty, and by that holy sign upon your breast, I swear to send a faithful servant to any spot you may appoint before midnight." 
               "And what security have I that you will keep faith with a brigand?" 
               "Let the belief in your generosity," replied Florio, "which has inspired so novel a proposition, be the pledge of the sincerity with which it is made. That and his oath are all a poor foundling has to offer." 
               "A foundling!" said the chief, starting;-"abandoned by your parents! Enough! I'll trust you; but mind, no messenger, no confidant; before midnight I will send those to Villa Rosa who shall receive the ransom or bring you back again." 
               "I consent," said Florio. 
               "You are answerable for your friend?" 
               "With my life." 
               "Your name?" 
               "Florio Clairville." 
               "You may depart," said the chief. 
               "Free!" said Theodore, closing his portfolio; "you don't say so?" 
               "To the mountains," commanded Massaroni, speaking to the brigands. 
               With these words he departed with his associates. 
               "You must to Rome instantly," said Florio. "Go to our patrons, to the academy; I will account for your absence at the villa; I have fifteen hundred scudi there-the rest must be raised at any sacrifice. Hasten!" 
               Saying this, they hurried away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  The Steward and the Brigand again.-The Night Attack.-A Plot. 
                
               THE Brigand Chief, disguised in his peasant's dress, was once more seated in the same spot, and occupied in the same manner as Nicolo had seen him in the morning, and, punctual to the moment, the old man made his appearance. 
               "There he is, sure enough," he muttered to himself, "and at play still. Oh, if the saint has made good use of his time--" 
               "Viva Maria!" cried the chief at that moment, and seeming to be quite unconscious of the presence of the old steward; "that was a noble cast! double or quits? Now the tide is tiding." 
               "Signor Gamester," said Nicolo, advancing towards him, "I'm here according to--" 
               "Silence, man!" interrupted the brigand; "I have a heavy stake upon the cast. Six for St. Eustace; now, now for it-twelve! Eviva! I have won!" 
               "Won!" repeated Nicolo, staring at him with amazement. 
               "Ay," returned the brigand, "I have won ten thousand ducats!" 
               "Poor fool!" thought the steward; "I give you joy, signor," he remarked, aloud; "you give St. Eustace long credit of course?" 
               "Long credit," repeated Massaroni, "not an hour-he is as punctual in his payments as I am in mine." 
               "And in what coin, pray?" 
                
               "The coin of the realm, to be sure-honest gold and silver. Oh, it is all arranged. For instance, now-this morning, when I lost, he threw in my way a beggarly-looking personage who, I believe, had not a scudi about him; but this afternoon, like an honest saint as he is, he sends me the grasping steward of St. Arnulph's, with upwards of nine thousand ducats to pay my fair winnings." 
               A strange misgiving came over the old man, when the brigand made these observations, and he sincerely wished that he was far away from the spot; for the eye of the chief was fixed upon him in a peculiar manner, and there was a wicked smile upon his countenance that made Nicolo feel any thing but comfortable. 
               "I don't understand, signor," he said-" I wish you good day-I--" 
               "Nay," interrupted Massaroni. "You must fulfill the intentions of the most holy and honorable St. Eustace. Nine thousand eight hundred ducats are my due; let us see how nearly you can make up that sum; I will not haggle with you for a few scudi." 
               "Most worthy signor, I call St. Eustace to witness, I have not a single scudi about my person. Search me, and be satisfied." 
               "You are very crafty, master steward; but you cannot deceive me. I grant you have not a scudi about your person; but this staff--" 
               As he spoke, the brigand snatched the staff out of the old man's hands, at which he set up a hideous howl of- 
               "Murder! thieves! I'm ruined. Oh, had I but arms!" 
               "If arms be all you require, master steward, I can furnish you;" and the brigand applied his whistle to his lips, and quick at the signal his trusty band rushed to the spot. 
               The wretched old man dropped on his knees in terror and dismay. 
               "Mercy!" he ejaculated; "you are surely joking?" 
               "A capital joke," laughed the chief; and turning to his band, he said: "Comrades, give thanks to the worthy steward of St. Arnulph's, who presents, in the name of his college, ten thousand ducats to the troops of Allessandro Massaroni." 
               "I crave your mercy," said Nicolo. 
               "You have your request, and I the losings of St. Eustace," replied the brigand. 
               As he spoke, he broke the heavy staff upon his knee, and out poured a glittering stream of ducats, at sight of which the brigands laughed most lustily, whilst the poor steward groaned with agony. 
               "Adio, Signor Nicolo," said the chief. 
               "Diavolo!" exclaimed the steward, as he turned and darted down the mountain, glad to escape with his life. 
               A sound of a postillion's whip was now heard, and Rubaldo jumped upon the rock to reconnoitre. 
               "A carriage wheels round the mountain," he said. 
               Massaroni rushed up to the spot, and looked eagerly down the mountain. 
               "Ah!" he said, "it is a noble-looking carriage; there is some rare booty in the very appearance. Load, load, comrades! conceal yourselves near the angle of the road." 
               The brigands quickly obeyed these commands. They were not long kept in suspense. The carriage arrived at the spot, halted, and the gentleman alighted to gaze at the romantic scenery from that commanding position. 
               "Welcome, signor!" said Massaroni, suddenly appearing before him, and gracefully bowing as he spoke. "I will trouble you to favor me with your name?" 
               "And pray, who are you that thus rudely demand it?" asked the traveler, alarmed. 
               "That you shall know," returned the brigand, "when you have replied to my question." 
               "Well, sir, I am the Count di Strozzi, colonel in the Austrian service." 
               "Very good; and the place of your present destination?" 
                
               "The Villa Rosa, to join the festivities of Prince Bianchi, in honor of his niece's, the fair Melina's, birth-day." 
               "Ay, a lovely maiden," said the brigand; "methinks I will pay my respects to the lady and her august uncle myself; but as my equipage is not ready, I will take the liberty of borrowing yours, count." 
               "How!" exclaimed that nobleman, placing his hand upon the hilt of his sword. 
               "Nay, signor," said the chief, with the utmost coolness, "you cannot surely object to so reasonable a request? But I have a further favor to beg, and that is, that you permit me to assume your dress and name for a short time, on condition that I mitigate the sum that I should otherwise have demanded for your ransom." 
               "Ransom!" exclaimed the count, starting and looking alarmed. "You are then-" 
               "Allessandro Massaroni! and these, signor, are my faithful attendants." 
               As he spoke, his comrades came forth from their concealment, and surrounded the amazed count and his carriage. 
               "Massaroni!" he cried, "forbear! You would not take my life?" 
               'No," replied the chief; "Allessandro Massaroni is no common cut-throat; but he feels inclined for a simple joke, whenever the opportunity is afforded him. I am aware that his Highness, the Prince Bianchi, has a particular wish to see me, and as you have arrived so opportunely, and, moreover, as I have a little business at Villa Rosa, I will do myself the honor of gratifying his wish this very evening; I am sorry to deprive your lordship of the pleasure you anticipated, but really I cannot any longer delay paying my respects to his Highness, particularly after the marked intimation of the friendship and esteem he bears towards me, which I heard this morning." 
               "Hear me, Massaroni," said the count.-" All that I have at present in my possession I will freely give you, and any ransom you may think proper to demand; but I must be allowed to proceed on my journey." 
               "I am sorry to be compelled to dissent from so very courteous a gentleman," replied the brigand; "but really I must insist that you tarry at my mountain retreat for a short time, while I repair to Villa Rosa, where, as Count di Strozzi, I shall be received with all due honor." 
               "Diavolo!" cried the count; "that my unlucky stars should have guided me hither. Will nothing prevail upon you?" 
               "You have heard my determination, and you must submit to it. Come, my lord count, allow me to conduct you to a place where we may perform our toilette, and then, having partaken of a glass of wine together, we must part company for a few hours. Come!" 
               Thus saying, the brigand chief took the arm of the astonished Count di Strozzi with the utmost politeness, and led him from the spot, followed by a portion of his daring band. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  The Festival at Villa Rosa.-The Remorse of Conscience. The Voluptuary.-The Portrait.-The Discovery.-The Escape. 
                
               THERE was great gayety at the Villa Rosa, for it was the anniversary of the birth-day of Prince Bianchi's niece, Melina. And in truth, Melina was a most lovely maiden; one, who was formed in every way to captivate, and whose amiable character won her the admiration and esteem of all. She was not more than eighteen, and had for more than four years been left an orphan, under the protection of the prince, her uncle. 
               In the sala of Villa Rosa was a picture which was always kept concealed by a red curtain, and in respect to which much curiosity was excited, and before which the old prince had been more than once been surprised, kneeling and absorbed in the deepest anguish, but no one had been able to fathom the particulars of the history connected with that painting. 
               Melina had many suitors, and among them was the young Count Alberti, whom the prince approved, and hoped to see the day when he should become the husband of his niece. But Melina loved him not, for she had heard of his intrigue with the unfortunate Olympia. Moreover, she loved the young painter, Florio Clairville, whose virtues presented such a glowing contrast to the vices of the count. 
               Old Nicolo, the steward, who had been invited to the festival, was standing on the palace terrace with prince Bianchi, to whom he had related in the most doleful terms his adventure with the Brigand Chief; to which his Highness listened with much delight. 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the prince, "of all the tricks I ever heard, this is the most amusing." 
               "Really, I am unable to perceive the joke," said Nicolo. 
               "I tell you it's capital-give you two hundred ducats at day-break to receive ten thousand by noon! By the dome of St. Peter's, but all the Jews in Rome ought to worship him for raising the rate of usance; and a shy old fox like you to be so entrapped!-Fabio," he added, "a glass of tokay for master steward." 
               Fabio's countenance became overcast as he faltered out- 
               "Of tokay, excellenza?" 
               "Aye, of the pannier that came from Rome this morning, that you brought yourself." 
               "Pardon, excellenza," said Fabio, "I put up the wine myself, as your highness desired, and on my way, the day being hot, I sat down under a tree, and somehow I fell asleep. When I awoke I saw twelve brigands, armed to the teeth, each with a bottle of your Highness's tokay, which they drained to the health of your Highness, and bade me carry back the empty pannier, with Massaroni's duty to your Highness!" 
               "Malpesta! maladizione!" angrily cried the prince, "drink my tokay!" 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the steward; "I crave pardon, excellenza, but that is a capital joke-I do see THAT!" 
               "Oh, you do see that?" returned Bianchi; "a pannier of the finest tokay in the world! you call that a joke, eh? Get to your college, sir, and ask leave to return this evening, and guide the soldiers to the haunt of this audacious ruffian, who robs the church and state--" 
               "And drinks its governer's tokay," added Nicolo as he retired. 
               Evening approached, and all was festivity in the villa; the soft strains of music were heard, while numerous guests were seen merrily and gracefully "treading the mazy windings of the fantastic dance." 
               Florio, the beloved of Melina was there, meditating in what way it would be possible for him to raise the ransom demanded, when the sound of carriage wheels aroused him. 
               "The guests still continue to arrive," he said; "if amongst them I could find a friend, who-" 
               He was interrupted by the entrance of a nobleman, magnificenty attired in full dress, and preceded by three servants. His figure was commanding, his deportment graceful, and his whole appearance seemed to bespeak an individual of the most eminent distinction and rank in society. 
               "Whom shall I have the honor to announce, signor?" said one of the servants, bowing obsequiously. 
               "The Count di Strozzi," answered the visitor, and he crossed over to the spot where Florio was standing. 
               "The Count di Strozzi," said the young painter, starting at the sound of the voice; "Heavens!" he added, "can I believe my sight?" 
               "And why not, my young Raphael?" returned the brigand chief; for he it was. "I told you I would send those, ere midnight, who should receive your ransom, or take you back again. I know not one of my band so fit to be trusted as myself." 
               "But do you know where you are?" asked Florio. 
               "To be sure I do. In the Villa Rosa, the property of prince Bianchi, governor of Rome, a gay, noble-hearted old gentleman whom I respect sincerely, notwithstanding his rigorous measures against me; he would hang me, if he could catch me, it is his duty to do so-I do not quarrel with him for that; but I do not choose to be hanged, if I can help it, and that vexes him, and makes him say harsh things of me; but that is no reason why I should not pay him a visit of ceremony." 
               "I cannot conquer my astonishment," said Florio. "Fly, wretched man! I cannot see you thus walk madly into the very jaws of destruction. Should the prince recognize you-" 
               "Fear nothing! we have never yet met." 
                
               "But he receives friends to-night, and among them-" 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughingly interrupted Massaroni; "you do me the honor to suppose, I now and then see good company. I will risk the meeting of a few old acquaintances, and you and your friend, I know, will not betray me." 
               "Massaroni!" eagerly demanded Florio, "mean you wrong or violence to the prince, or Melina? if so, not even my oath-" 
               "Be satisfied," answered the brigand; "unless you fail in your promise, I am here only as Count di Strozzi, this day arrived from Naples." 
               He walked boldly forward, and acted the part of the Count di Strozzi with the ease and gentlemanly bearing of one born to the high estate he then but temporarily filled.-He was formally introduced to the prince Bianchi, and the other noble guests, who had arrived before him, and was cordially welcomed. During the entertainment, he made himself so agreeable and prominent, by his songs and anecdotes, that he soon became the general favorite of the assembly, especially with the ladies, who were struck with his manly beauty, and regularly chiseled features. 
               Soon as an opportunity occurred, Bianchi commenced a conversation with Massaroni, touching the state of the country through which he had passed, and if he had seen anything of the brigands he was so anxious to bring to execution. He said that the country seemed tranquil at present, but he feared that, unless relief were granted to the peasants of some of the districts, there would be a revolt. 
               "It shall be prevented," said the prince: "I will send one of our people to the authorities at--with two thousand ducats to relieve their immediate wants." 
               "Excellenza," said Massaroni, "I will, with your permission, save you the inconvenience by carrying it myself to its destination." 
               "I shall esteem it as a great favor." 
               The money was sent for, and placed in the charge of his faithful attendants; after which Massaroni was persuaded to 
                   
                     MASSARONI REVEALS HIMSELF TO HIS BOASTING ENEMIES. SEE p. 62. 
                  
                  
                   sing a Florentine song. He had not proceeded far, before the prince seemed paralyzed, and endeavored to say something, but was unable to articulate a syllable. He was led from the room uttering incoherent sentences, among which might be heard: "The same words-the subject-the time-all corresponds; but yet, it cannot be. The eyes, too, bear such a semblance. Thirty years have now elapsed-it cannot be." 
               The time was drawing on apace for the party to separate, therefore Massaroni sought out the young painter, Florio, who was to pay him the ransom. The object of his search was soon discovered, and the amount settled for. As soon as he had transacted his business with the artist, he ordered his carriage to be brought to the entrance, while he returned to the hall, to bid adieu to the guests, who had done him so much honor during his brief sojourn among them. While he was speaking to the prince, who had returned to the hall, two gentlemen scrutinized the brigand narrowly. 
               "It is he," said one, "I know him by his voice. He robbed me a month ago." 
               "It cannot be," said the other, "for I saw him arrive in his carriage from the direct Naples road, and, moreover, he was attended by servants in livery." 
               "Very true," rejoined the other; "but he must not be permitted to pass from the hall before the prince is made acquainted with our suspicions. You endeavor to gain him in conversation, while I communicate my fears to the prince." 
               They agreed to adopt this method. One of the gentlemen crossed over towards Massaroni, and commenced conversing with him; but suspecting that all was not right, he moved, while speaking, as near to the door as possible. 
               The countenance of the prince underwent various changes during the time the communication was being made to him. When he saw that the supposed count had left the hall, he summoned a few of his most intimate friends, and requested them to accompany him to the carriage in waiting, and assist him in ascertaining the truth or falsehood of the statement he had received. 
               "Come, my friends," he said, "do not delay; if it be the brigand in disguise, we will give the people of Rome a treat in witnessing his speedy execution." 
               Melina, who had been an anxious listener to all that had passed, hastened to the entrance of the Villa Rosa, and in a few moments found the carriage in which the count had just entered. He knew her, and called her by name, although it was rather dark. 
               "Flee," she said, "you are suspected of being Massaroni, the brigand chief; and my uncle, with a large force, is even now coming to arrest you!" 
               She was not able to say more before the prince Bianchi and his party arrived. The coachman, in accordance with previous instructions, drove through the party, who accompanied the prince, unknown. As the carriage passed the group, the brigand threw out a card, on which was written- 
               "Massaroni's compliments to the Prince Bianchi, and returns thanks for the entertainment afforded him during the evening." 
               The card was picked up by one of the party, and handed to the prince, who grew furious at the trick that had been played upon him. He ordered instant pursuit to be set on foot by an armed body of soldiers, and then returned to the house, accompanied by Melina, who endeavored to soothe him, but in vain. 
               When Prince Bianchi retired to his chamber, that night, he paced the room for some time, giving vent to his feelings of rage and disappointment at the escape of Massaroni. 
               "To be so duped," he soliloquized, "to absolutely become the entertainer of the rascal I have so long been anxious to bring to the scaffold, or to shoot down like a dog; to allow myself to bandy jokes with and to flatter him; nay, more, to permit him to plunder me of no less a sum than two thousand ducats. Malpesta maladizione! I, the governor of Rome, shall be brought into contempt-I shall be laughed at-I can never show my head in society again. But, by the dome of St. Peter's, I will though, and my appearance shall be accompanied by the head of that same daring brigand chief. Ah! what means this sickly sensation?-Valentia!-lovely, innocent, gentle Valentia!-Beauteous, confiding Zitella, too, where art thou? Where is that innocent babe, the offspring of our illicit intercourse, whom I confided to-Jesu, Maria! what distracting thoughts are these that now scorch and madden my brain? Oh, conscience! what a terrible monitor art thou!" 
               For several minutes, the wretched prince remained in a state of apathy; but anon, strange ideas and forms flitted before his imagination. As he gazed vacantly around the room, a shadowy form seemed to flit past his eyes, and vanish immediately by an opposite door, though it was secured by both lock and bolt. God! how he trembled, and the blood seemed to freeze in his veins! At length he shouted aloud, and in a voice of terror- 
               "Who, ho! within there! Lights, lights! Varlets, are ye deaf? Lights, I say!" 
               His cries reached the ears of some of the servants, and they rushed to the chamber, where they found their master extended on the floor in a fit. They raised him from the floor, and Melina was summoned. She tenderly took his hand, and said- 
               "My poor, dear uncle! oh, what is it that has affected you thus? Some fearful dream, but heed it not." 
               "Dream! dream!" reiterated the prince, "who says it was a dream? It was a stern reality! Do you not see her now?-Zitella! Have I no command here, that the dead should thus arise in judgment against me? I am the Prince Bianchi, governor of Rome, and will triumph, though a legion of fiends opposed me!" 
               With these and other incoherent expressions, the conscience-stricken prince released himself from those who held him, and rushed wildly towards the spot where he imagined the objects of his terror stood. He staggered half way-his hands grappled with the air-and with a hysterical laugh he sank into the arms of his attendants, in a state of utter insensibility. 
                
               We must now return to Massaroni and his followers. They had eluded all pursuit, and arrived at the place of their destination.-The chief found his wife anxiously watching his return, and when she beheld him, she flew to meet him, and rushed fondly into his arms. 
               "You have returned safely, and I am satisfied, Allessandro," said she. "You seem agitated; what has happened?" 
               "In truth, Maria," replied the brigand, "I have had a narrow escape; but I have got the ransom, and two thousand ducats besides. How fares our prisoner, the Count di Strozzi?" 
               "No longer our prisoner," answered Maria. 
               "How!" exclaimed Massaroni, starting. 
               "'Tis even so. I was compelled to go to the relief of one of our sick friends, the peasant Ninetta, and in the meantime, Carlotzi and his companion, by some accident or other, suffered the count to escape." 
               "Escape! Diavolo!" cried the brigand.-"The knaves! the traitors! But they shall suffer for it. What explanation did they give?" 
               "That, having partaken too freely of the prince's tokay, they fell asleep, and when they awoke, the count had taken his departure." 
               "The lying rascals! but they shall not deceive me by such a tale. Rubaldo, bring them before me." 
               This command was obeyed, and in a few minutes Carlotzi and Sangrino were brought into the presence of their enraged chief. 
               "So, the Count di Strozzi has escaped?" 
               "Accidentally he has done so," replied Carlotzi. 
               "Accidentally!" repeated the chief; "do you think to deceive me by such a tale!-Traitors? I have long had suspicions of your fidelity; you have taken the count's gold, and suffered him to escape; is it not so?" 
               "No-no," hastily replied Sangrino, much alarmed. 
               "Search them, Rubaldo," ordered the chief. 
                
               The order was obeyed, and two well filled purses were taken from the person of Carlotzi. 
               "Here is a confirmation of your guilt," said Massaroni; a goodly sum, truly; the count has paid a noble sum for his ransom. Do you any longer dare deny your guilt?" 
               "No, no," replied the poor trembling wretches, in a breath, and sinking on their knees at the same time; "mercy! mercy!" 
               "Comrades," said Massaroni," addressing his band, "what is the punishment due to traitors?" 
               Death!" was the unanimous reply. 
               "Then, do your duty!" 
               The contents of a half dozen carbines were immediately discharged at the miserable men, and bounding in the air, they sank dead upon the earth. 
               "So perish all who would prove false to Allesandro Massaroni!" said the chief. 
               Massaroni, retiring to his private apartment with his wife, related to her all the details of his visit to Villa Rosa, dwelling particularly upon the picture which he got a glimpse of, and before which we have seen the Prince Bianchi kneeling. 
               "And you are certain the portrait resembles your mother?" asked Maria. 
               "I cannot be deceived," replied the chief. "It is her very counterpart. I could have knelt before it forever in reverence, had not danger pressed me to flee, and had not the thought rushed upon my brain of what would become of you, my faithful partner, where you deprived of my protection." 
               "Not for me alone," said Maria; "you must live for vengeance!" 
               "Aye, for vengeance on the head of the base and heartless betrayer of her who gave me being! Should I discover him, I should forget that he were my father; I should think only of the wrongs of my mother, and that he had made me what I am, and satiate my hatred in his life's blood. Young as I was, when my mother ended her mortal career, I registered an oath in Heaven to redress her wrongs if ever I had the opportunity; and, by all my hopes here and hereafter, that oath shall not be broken." 
               "Suspect you the Prince Bianchi?" 
               "I dare not trust myself to that conclusion until I have had further proof," replied Massaroni. 
               The conversation was here interrupted by a call for Massaroni. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  The Sufferings of Olympia.-The Villanous Plot.-Her Abduction. 
                
               "THE die is cast," sighed the unhappy Olympia, after Count Alberti had taken his leave; "my worst fears are realized; my fate is sealed. Oh! Alberti, for whom I have sacrificed everything, have I deserved this? Would that I and my poor baby were at rest in the silent grave. And why should I continue to live?" she added, with a frenzied look. "In a moment I can put an end to my earthly troubles and that of my child! Why should I hesitate-" 
               To her bewildered imagination now appeared the form of her seducer, smiling and exulting in her misery and despair. And, oh God! what form was that by his side, whom he so fondly embraced, but who yet turned from him with an expression of loathing and disgust? It was that of Melina!-Her brain whirled!-she grasped a knife, and advanced towards the bed were her beauteous little one was slumbering in all unconscious innocence of the dreadful misery, the awful thoughts, which were then raging within its wretched mother's breast. 
               "I will do it," she said, in a tone of voice that was quite unearthly, as she stooped over the infant with the knife upraised. "But one blow from this friendly knife, and thy short career in life, my cherub, will be ended in innocence. God of Heaven! pardon me the deed. One kiss, my little one, and then-" 
                
               At that moment the infant smiled beautifully in its sleep, and a change immediately came over the feelings of its wretched mother; reason again resumed its seat, and dropping the knife, and sinking upon her knees, she prayed- 
               "All merciful Father! forgive me the unnatural, the dreadful crime my despair and madness would have urged me to perpetrate. Oh, guide me-teach me how to act in this trying hour!" 
               The mother stooped down over her child, and covered it with caresses. 
               A loud knocking at the door startled her. She listened, and heard the well known voice of Alberti, saying- 
               "Open the door immediately." 
               "Alberti!" gasped Olympia; "at such an hour! Oh, merciful powers, protect me!" 
               "Delay not!" returned the count, in a tone of stern authority. 
               The distracted Olympia withdrew the bolt, and Count Alberti stalking into the room, she sank at his feet, and with her looks implored his pity and forbearance. 
               "Rise, woman!" he commanded, in accents which she had never heard him assume before; "none of this affected foolery, for it will make no inpression on me. My time is brief, and must not be wasted in useless conversation. This night seals your fate." 
               "Oh, Alberti!" she shrieked, clinging to his knees, and looking up piteously and imploringly in his face; "for the love of Heaven, what would you do?" 
               "Rid myself of what has become a burthen to me," replied the unfeeling count. 
               "Monster! would you then murder me and our innocent offspring?" 
               "No,; I am no assassin; but would protect myself from annoyance and degradation." 
               "Merciful God,! protect me and my child!" she exclaimed. "What is your dreadful intention towards me?" 
               "You shall soon see," he replied; and Olympia shrank appaled palled with horror, when several fierce-looking men, well armed, made their appearance at the door, and entering the room at the command of the count, surrounded her. 
               "Alberti!" she shrieked; "you cannot be so inhuman! Oh, mercy, mercy, spare me!" 
               "Away with her!" commanded the count; "heed not her cries; you know my instructions, and as you obey them, so you will be rewarded." 
               The ruffians seized Olympia, but she struggled desperately, and uttering one appalling shriek, she fainted. 
               "Quick! quick!" ordered the count; "follow my directions." 
               "Aye, aye, signor," returned one of the ruffians; "when may we expect to see you at our cavern in the mountains?" 
               "In a day or two," replied the count;-"here is gold for you-now away." 
               Olympia and her child were conveyed to a carriage, in waiting, which quickly drove away. The young count eagerly watched their departure; he then re-entered the house, congratlating himself upon having got rid of Olympia and her child, thus leaving the way clear to supplant Florio in his aspirations for the hand of the beauteous Melina. 
                
               It was several days before the Prince Bianchi was sufficiently recovered to leave his chamber. Melina had watched by his bed-side with the most anxious solicitude and affection. 
               "Melina my love," said the prince, when he had nearly recovered, "I have something of a most important nature for your private ear; attend me." 
               Melina courtseyed and seated herself beside him, while her heart throbbed violently, and her mind was tortured by some fearful misgivings. 
               "I would see you, Melina," said he, "united to a man, who, in addition to all the graces, accomplishments, and virtues of mind, should possess rank, wealth and station equal to your own. But you tremble-you are pale, dear Melina-what is the matter?" 
               "Nothing-nothing, my lord," faltered out the agitated maiden. 
               "Such a man as I have described," resumed the prince, "is alone worthy of your hand. Such a man is Count Albertid' Amalfi!" 
               "The Count d'Amalfi!" 
               "Aye, he is young, handsome, noble and accomplished; and I have given him my permission that he should pay his addresses to you." 
               Melina uttered a shriek of agony, and would have sank insensible to the floor, had not the prince caught her in his arms. He immediately summoned the attendance of her waiting women, and having resigned her to their care, he hastily quitted the room in a state of the greatest agitation. 
               Melina, on recovering, was aroused to a full consciousness of all that her uncle had said. Love the Count Alberti! the heartless betrayer of confiding innocence-him who had abandoned the victim of his lust, and the offspring of their illicit connexion to want and wretchedness!-Oh, never! never!-She felt that she could sooner endure a thousand lingering deaths than submit to such a disgusting sacrifice. And could she abandon all hopes of the noble-minded Florio-him who had by his numerous virtues won her most ardent affections! The thought was agonizing, and she felt that to do so would be utterly impossible! 
               While she was thus reflecting, the prince re-entered the room, and advancing towards her, he said in tones of affection- 
               "I regret, my sweet niece, that anything I should communicate to you should cause so much emotion; but I trust that it was only temporary." 
               "Oh! my dear uncle," replied Melina, "I beseech you to spare my feelings on this painful subject; and I must candidly acknowledge that I have no heart to bestow on Count Alberti. I cannot love him!" 
               "Ah! I see how it is," said the prince;-"you have suffered the image of another to make a fatal impression upon your heart. Is it not so?" 
               Melina blushed and trembled. The prince watched her narrowly, and his suspicions were confirmed by the confusion she evinced. 
               "Tell me," said he, sternly; "have you not suffered the plebeian, Florio Clairville, to win your affections?" 
               Poor Melina hung down her head, but was unable to reply. 
               "Enough; your silence convinces me that I am right in my conjectures; but your passion is hopeless; you must banish Florio from your mind, for he shall never wed niece of mine!" 
               "Then mark me, my lord," replied Melina, resolutely; "no other man shall possess my heart or my hand!" 
               "Beware, Melina," said he, passionately; "you have found me hitherto indulgent almost to a fault; but in this instance I have made up my mind, and I will be obeyed!" 
               "Then, my lord," replied Melina, sobbing violently, "you condemn me to the most abject, misery, than which, death to me would be far more preferable." 
               Uttering these words, Melina retired from the apartment. 
               The prince, finding his niece inexorable, resolved to annihilate her hopes at once, by taking the earliest opportunity of banishing Florio from the villa. He had only just come to this resolution, when a servant entered the room, and informed him that Florio Clairville was waiting below, and requested an audience with him. 
               "'Tis well," said the prince, "this arrival is most opportune; show Monsieur Clairville up stairs." 
               The servant departed, and in a few minutes afterwards Florio entered the room, and was received with formal politeness by the Prince Bianchi. 
               "Signor Clairville," said he, "you have arrived in good time, for I am anxious to talk with you on matters of serious import." 
               "Indeed! your highness," said Florio, "you do me great honor by condescending to consult me on any subject." 
                
               "Tut, tut, tut!" said the prince, impatiently; "we will come at once to the point. I have long suspected that you and my niece, Melina, love each other, and I have received confirmation of the painful truth from her own lips." 
               "I confess," replied Florio, "that her image is so deeply enshrined in my heart, is so wrapped up with my very existence, that-" 
               "Cease, bold, presumptuous youth!" interrupted the prince, with indignation; "I'll hear no more. Melina and you must never meet again, and I warn you not to attempt to see her, or to correspond with her, as you dread my vengeance. Remember, this is the last time you will be received at the villa. Fare-well." 
               Having thus spoken, the prince waved his hand in an authoritative manner, and, retiring from the room, left the distracted Florio to his own reflections. The mandate of the prince had come like a thunderbolt upon him, and quite unnerved him. 
               He sighed deeply, and then with a most disconsolate air, he slowly quitted the room, and took his departure from the villa. 
               A thought at length occurred to him that he would write a farewell note to Melina. Tearing a leaf from his sketch book, he took his pencil and hastily wrote a most affectionate epistle, and seeking a confidential servant of Melina, he delivered it into her hands with an injunction of secrecy, and informing her where he might communicate with him if such should be Melina's desire. 
               Almost unconscious of what he did, he now wandered towards the residence of his noble rival, the Count Alberti. The gate which opened into the extensive gardens of the palazzo was open, and without any definite object in view he entered. Arriving at a spot where he might be concealed from observation, he threw himself on the ground, and gave himself up to the most gloomy meditations. 
               Night at length spread its dark mantle around, and Florio arose to depart, when the sound of approaching footsteps saluted his ears. It was the Count Alberti, and he was accompanied by a tall, suspicious, looking man, and they appeared to be engaged in earnest conversation. As they passed by Florio, he was enabled to hear at least the subject of which they were speaking. 
               "Rinaldo and your comrades have acted well, Spinotti," remarked the count. "So, Olympia is quite secure in the cavern of the mountain?" 
               "Perfectly secure, signor," replied Spinotti. 
               "'Tis well. You will convey this bag of gold to your captain, and tell him that probably in a few days he may see me at the cavern." 
               "I will do so, my lord," replied the robber, as he received the treasure. 
               "Have you any knowledge of the present retreat of Massaroni?" 
               "It is, I understand, somewhere near the Appenine Mountains." 
               Florio could hear no more distinctly, but he hied from the place, determined on seeking out Massaroni, and make him acquainted with what he had heard of Olympia, in whom he was aware, the daring chief felt a deep interest. 
               With this resolution, Florio, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, set out upon the journey. He walked all night, and by the time the morning dawned, he had advanced far on his way towards the Appenines. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  Massaroni's Retreat near the Appenines.-The Old Cottager.-A Mystery.-Meeting with Florio.-Midnight Attack And Capture of Count Alberti. 
                
               THE Brigand Chief, as has been intimated, was now located in a romantic wood, near the lofty Appenines, where he might bid defiance to any force that might be sent to apprehend him. The country between this wood and the mountains was much intersected by ravines, waterfalls, and rocks; the whole presenting a wild and picturesque appearance. 
               Not far from this stronghold of Massaroni, there resided in a cottage an old man, named Montaldi, with whom the chief had cultivated terms of friendship and intimacy, without the former's knowing who the latter really was. Residing with old Montaldi was a woman, apparently between forty and fifty years of age, whose intellects were deranged, and who was not only in any manner related to Montaldi, but although she had resided with him for several years, he did not even know her name or where she came from.-He had found her perishing at his cottage door on a cold winter's night, and had kindly taken her in and supported her out of charity ever since. 
               Every day did Massaroni become more anxious to be made acquainted with this unfortunate woman's history, but still with not the remotest prospect of his being able to do so. It happened on one occasion when Massaroni was visiting Montaldi 
                   
                     MONTALDI AND OTTAVIA. SEE P. 80. 
                  
                  
                   taldi, a loud demand for admittance was made at the cottage door. Montaldi looked out and beheld two armed men, who, he thought, were officers of justice. Massaroni appeared somewhat confused, and retired to an inner apartment. 
               Montaldi opened the door and gave admittance to two of the worst of Massaroni's band. 
               "Now, signors, your business?" demanded Montaldi. 
               "Your money or your life!" demanded the ruffians. 
               "Spare me, I beseech you," said Montaldi. "I am but a poor old man, and--" 
               "No more of this nonsense," said one of the robbers, presenting his carbine at the head of Montaldi. 
               "Hold! but a moment," said the old man, suddenly recollecting a paper which Massaroni had given him, and which he produced and delivered to one of the ruffians. 
               On beholding it, one of the fellows was for obeying it, but the other snatched it from Montaldi's hand, and tearing it in a hundred pieces, stamped upon it with contempt. 
               "Think not to save yourself by this," said he; "you see the value I put upon it, and I repeat, if you do not deliver up your money at once, I'll send a bullet through your head." 
               "Villains!" cried Massaroni, rushing from his place of concealment; "is it thus you despise the orders of your chief, and outrage those whom it is his will to protect?" 
               With these words, he hurled them to each side of the room, and drawing a brace of pistols from his belt, he was on the point of discharging their contents at them, when they shrunk on their knees in the most abject manner, and shrieked aloud for mercy. 
               "Begone to the rendezvous!" he commanded, "and there I will decide what punishment shall be inflicted on you." 
               The brigands hastened away without another word, and Massaroni, after renewing his promise of protection to Montaldi, took his leave. 
               It was a beautiful evening; the silver lamp of night was shining brilliantly in the heavens, and the rich foliage of the trees glittered in its beams. As he proceeded through the forest, the loud cries of "help! help!" saluted his ears. He hastened on in the direction of the place whence the cries proceeded. Forcing his way through a thicket, he beheld at a short distance a man upon one knee, while two of the brigands had raised the butt ends of their carbines in the air, and were apparently in the act of felling him to the earth. 
               "Hold, villains!" shouted Massaroni, darting towards them. "Cowards! would you strike a defenceless man? Hold! Who dares disobey the commands of Allesandro Massaroni?" 
               The brigands started back at the voice of their chief, and the traveller jumped to his feet with an exclamation of mingled astonishment and delight. 
               "Ah! what, my young Raphael," said Massaroni; "is it possible we meet again?" 
               "Massaroni," replied Florio, for he it was, "I am glad to see you, for I have much to communicate to you." 
               "Indeed! I shall be most happy to listen to you. Follow me, signor." 
               Massaroni led the way to his cave, and motioning him to be seated, requested him to disclose what he wished. 
               "You see before you one of the most miserable of men," commenced Florio. "The fair Melina, the niece of Prince Bianchi, has honored me by bestowing her affections on my humble self. The prince frowns upon our love-has banished me from her presence, and has declared that we must never meet again. He has destined her for a wealthy rival; none other than the base, the perfidious seducer of Olympia, the Count Alberti!" 
               "Diavolo!" exclaimed Massaroni; "and will the count dare to set the compact he has made with me at defiance? But what of Olympia? Know you aught of her?" 
               "She has been forced from her late residence," replied Florio; and then he related the conversation he had overheard in the gardens of the palazzo between the count and Spinotti. 
                
               "I'll be revenged for this," said the chief; "Alberti shall deeply repent his conduct." 
               "What course would you adopt towards him?" asked Florio. 
               "That you shall know anon," said Massaroni; "I perceive that you are much fatigued by traveling, and therefore would advise you to seek repose. I wish to see you at an early hour in the morning. Follow me, signor, if you please." 
               The chief took up a lamp, and Florio followed him through a dark and narrow passage, until they arrived at a small apartment, in which were a table, a stool, and a mattress. 
               "This is but a rough lodging, signor," said Massaroni; "but here you are perfectly safe. Good night." 
               "Good night," repeated Florio, and the brigand, having lighted another lamp, left the young artist to himself. 
                
               The golden sun had scarcely mounted the horizon, when Massaroni entered the cavern in which Florio had been reposing. 
               "Come, signor," said he, "the morning repast awaits us, and then my band and myself must depart for the palazzo, for even by the most expeditious traveling, it will be night ere we can reach it." 
               Florio obeyed, and after partaking of the morning meal, the chief acquainted him and his band with the hazardous business before them, and that was to surprise Count Alberti's palazzo, and, if possible, make a prisoner of the libertine count. 
               It was arranged that they were to disguise themselves, and traveling by different routes to meet at a given point, and there decide upon the method of attack; but Allessandro strictly enjoined them not to endanger the life of the count, his object being to secure his person. 
               Having commanded his wife and a detachment of the brigands to guard the cavern, those who composed the expedition, separated, the chief, disguised as an old man, pursuing his way alone. 
               On the evening of the intended attack of the brigand chief upon the palazzo, the count had entertained a few select friends, among whom was the Prince Bianchi. The party, however, broke up at an early hour, and all retired, except Count Alberti, who sat buried in gloomy meditation until the hour of midnight approached. 
               Massaroni and his band had met at the place appointed, and when darkness entirely obscured the horizon, they made their way to the castle. There was not a human being near the spot, and all around was perfectly silent. 
               "All is favorable to our designs," said Massaroni; "and now to gain admittance." 
               "That will be no easy task," said Rubaldo; "for you see the moat bridge is up." 
               "That is awkward; but by a leap from this tree, I think I might reach the opposite bank." 
               "It would be a desperate attempt," said Rubaldo. 
               "But not more desperate than the occasion. I will boldly venture it." 
               As he spoke, he mounted the tree, and standing on the strongest branch, he made a spring. The elastic nature of the wood gave him an additional impetus, and threw him on the bank, stunned by the fall. He soon recovered, and gazing eagerly around him, he beheld the sentinel at the gate. There was nothing left for him to do but to sacrifice the life of this unfortunate man. He crept on close by the walls, until he reached the gate. The sentinel's back at that moment was turned towards him, and taking advantage of the opportunity, Massaroni plunged his stiletto to the hilt in the man's body, and he fell without giving utterance to the least cry! 
               This done, he let down the drawbridge, and gave admittance to his bold associates. 
               "Conceal yourselves behind yonder trees," he said. "When you hear my signal, hasten to my assistance." 
               Thus saying, he cautiously stole into the castle by an open door, and then crept towards an apartment, from the windows of which he had observed the glimmer of lights, On arriving at the door, he paused to listen, but hearing no one stirring, he ventured to open it slowly, when he beheld the count seated at the opposite end of the apartment, apparently wrapped in deep meditation. 
               Massaroni stepped into the room with a pistol in each hand, and hastily advanced towards his intended prisoner. 
               "Ah!" exclaimed the count, amazed, "what means this intrusion? Who are you, fellow, who thus dares to break upon my privacy.-What! ha! there!-help! help!" 
               "Silence! or you are a dead man!" commanded the brigand. 
               "Ah! by Heaven! 'tis the brigand, Massaroni! Villain! what would you?" 
               "Justice for Olympia, whom you hold in your power! Resistance is vain; for you're my prisoner!" 
               "Liar!" exclaimed the count, as he rushed desperately upon the chief, and tried to wrest the pistols from his grasp. 
               It was a moment of great danger; but in the desperate struggle that ensued, one of the pistols was accidentally fired, and gave the alarm to the brigands outside, who came rushing into the room at the same time that a number of the count's vassals, all armed, entered by an opposite door. Massaroni had now succeeded in felling his antagonist to the earth, and had placed one of his feet on his chest, and presented the loaded pistol at his head, threatening him with instant death, if he did not yield. The brigands attacked the vassals fiercely and kept them at bay.-The noise and confusion that now reigned in the castle was perfectly terrific, and the vassals of the count rent the air with the name of Allessandro Massaroni. 
               But soon another calamity added to the horrors of the scene; a portion of the rich drapery caught fire, and the flames spread with rapidity. The smoke became suffocating, and the combatants could not distinguish each other. The vassals at length gave way, and as the conflagration spread on every side, the consternation that prevailed became indescribable. 
               "Secure the count," shouted Massaroni, "and away with him. The victory is ours!" 
                
               Two of the brigands immediately seized Alberti, and, in spite of his struggles, bore him away! 
               "Quick! quick!" cried the chief; "to the wood, and we set all pursuit at defiance." 
               The castle was quickly one mass of flame and was doomed to entire destruction, and the lurid reflection from it spread far over the horizon, rendering the scene at once one of the most sublime and awful that could be imagined. The brigands continued their flight with increased speed, and before evening of another day they had arrived at the secret retreat in the Appenines. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  Count Alberti in Prison.-The Expedition.-The Conflict. 
                
               WE have before stated that the Prince Bianchi was at the count's palazzo on the evening of the conflagration, but he returned home at an early hour.-An hour or two elapsed, when he was startled by beholding immense flames of fire and showers of sparks proceeding from that part where the castle of the count was situated. 
               "What devil's work is going on there?" he exclaimed; "is this an accident, or the work of some base incendiary?" 
               He had scarcely given utterance to these words, when two of the vassals of Alberti were ushered into his presence. 
               "Oh, your Highness," said Pietro, "there has been dreadful work; the castle is in flames, and our noble master has been carried away by ruffians, under the command of Allessandro Massaroni, the terrible brigand chief!" 
               "Massaroni!" exclaimed the prince, with an oath; "the villain! But he must not be suffered to escape; the count must be rescued from his power at all hazards. Which way did the brigands take?" 
               "They fled towards the wood, my lord," replied Pietro; "but I fear it is now too late to overtake them." 
               "They must be pursued, or the unfortunate count will fall a victim to their vengeance." 
               Quickly he ordered the whole of his vassals to arm themselves, and then, in spite of the entreaties of Melina, who had become acquainted with what had taken place, and had hastened to her uncle's apartment, the prince mounted his horse and galloped off at the head of his attendants. They rode on with all possible speed, and reaching the wood, they scoured it in every direction, but to no purpose. After a couple of hours in fruitless search, enraged and disappointed, the prince returned home. 
               Two days afterwards, a dying brigand was carried into his presence, who revealed the present retreat of the band. A formidable expedition was immediately fitted out and marched towards the mountains. 
                
               But to return to the brigand chief, and his lordly prisoner. 
               "Welcome, Count Alberti d'Amalfi, to the brigand's retreat," said Massaroni. "Here you will find every accommodation, (though perhaps not quite so costly as that to be met with in your late noble castle,) the best of fare, and jovial company withal. Once more I bid you welcome." 
               "Massaroni," returned the count, biting his lips with indignation, "do not mock me, if you are a man, and posssess any spark of generosity. It ill becomes you to triumph over a fallen foe." 
               "Ah, indeed! Then reveal to me the place where Olympia and her offspring are confined." 
               "I cannot; I know not myself where she is." 
               "And think you, Count Alberti, to deceive me by such a palpable falsehood? I have ample proof of your guilt, and this instant I could produce it to your utter confusion." 
               "Massaroni," said the count, "if it is money that you demand for my liberation, name the sum and it shall be yours." 
               "Bah! 'tis useless to endeavor to tamper with me; you know well that I not only demand money, but the restoration of Olympia and her child to liberty. You know that I insist upon your making her all the atonement in your power, and moreover, that I command you to abandon all your hopes of the fair niece of the Prince Bianchi." 
               "Very modest, truly," said the count, with an ironical smile; "but what if I beg leave to decline?" 
               "You have heard my demands; are you ready to comply with them?" 
               "Never!" replied Alberti, boldly. 
               "Are you mad?" 
               "I am determined." 
               "Be it so; and so am I. We shall see who will first yield. I leave you, count, to your own reflections." 
               "Stay, Massaroni; will you not listen to reason?" 
               "When you learn to be honest." 
               "And has the brigand chief, the terror of Italy, the presumption to talk of honesty?" 
               "And has Count Alberti, the seducer of female innocence, the effrontery to boast of honor? You know my terms, and it is for you to decide whether you will accept or reject them." 
               Thus saying, without giving his prisoner time to reply, Massaroni quitted the cavernous dungeon. 
               "How now, Rubaldo? what news?" ejaculated Massaroni, as his lieutenant leaped from his horse, in haste. 
               "Danger threatens us," said Rubaldo.-"The Prince Bianchi has gained some clue to the place of our retreat, and a powerful force is on its way towards the Appenines, with the hope of discovering us, and taking us by surprise." 
               "Cospetto!" exclaimed Massaroni, "is it so? then my respected friend, the prince, is still resolved to suffer another defeat in his very laudable and humane anxiety to hand me over to the executioner. I will immediately depart to meet them, so disguised that I will defy them to have the least suspicion of me. Have the band in readiness to obey my summons at the 'Golden Flask.'" 
                
               The sun had sunk behind the mountains, and the soldiers had yet some distance to travel. They were almost worn out with fatigue, and to add to their discontent, black clouds suddenly obscured the horizon, and gave tokens of a coming storm. 
               "Diavolo!" exclaimed one of the officers; "I begin to find that this is not quite such an agreeable expedition as I anticipated.-Ah! there is a light yonder; it seems to be coming this way." 
               It came nearer and nearer, and it soon became evident that it was a lantern carried by some traveler. 
               They halted, and the person, who was whistling merrily, soon came up with them, and made a dead stop, apparently greatly alarmed at the sight of the soldiers. He was a coarse-looking rustic, and the vacant stare he fixed upon them gave a ludicrous effect. 
               "Be not alarmed, my man," said one of the officers; "we are not robbers, though we are in search of some, and hope to capture the rascals in a few hours. Can you direct us to any house where we can receive shelter and refreshment?" 
               "What will you give me, signor?" asked the rustic, with a broad grin. 
               "Oh! fear not but we will reward you handsomely for your trouble." 
               "Then follow me, signor, and I will lead you to a capital house not more than half a league from here." 
               The rustic led the way, whistling as he proceeded, and the soldiers followed. At length they reached the house, and the soldiers being accommodated in the best manner they could in the stables, the officers entered a comfortable room, and invited their guide to partake of some refreshment with them, which he accepted very willingly: and after they had plied him with a glass or two of wine, they began to question him. 
               "I understand," said Marcelli, "that these mountains are infested with banditti-is it so?" 
               "Are you in search of them?" asked the rustic. 
               "Why, yes; we are in search of the brigand, Massaroni, who, we have been informed, is secreted somewhere near this spot." 
                
               "Well, I believe he is," answered the peasant; "and I only wish you may catch him; though I warn you that it will be no easy task." 
               "We are soldiers, and do not shrink from the danger. I am determined to have the rascal before many hours have elapsed.-When did you last hear of him, my good man?" 
               "Only a few days since," replied the peasant, "and I'll be bound to say you will hear from him before daylight." 
               "Humph!" said the captain; "that is a very welcome assurance. By the cross! I long to encounter him single-handed, that I may chastise the rascal for the outrage he has committed on my friend, the Count Alberti d'Amalfi." 
               "Do not talk too loudly, signor," cautioned the rustic; "for Massaroni is here, there, and everywhere, though invisible. He may, even now, be nearer than you imagine; and should he overhear what you say, you may see him and his band much sooner than may be welcome to you." 
               "Psha!" exclaimed the other, "I am not to be intimidated by the stories that are related of his prowess. I do believe him to be an empty boaster whom Fortune has hitherto favored; but he'll find more than his match, I'll warrant, when he comes to encounter me. I also believe him to be one of the most consummate villains in existence." 
               "I cannot bear," said the rustic, "to hear the character of Massaroni calumniated. Although a robber he is a man, much more worthy of the name than many who boast of being noble and honorable. To the poor he is a generous friend and benefactor, and to the suffering and oppressed a champion and protector." 
               "By the dome of St. Peter's!" said Marcelli, "methinks if you were the brigand chief himself, you could not advocate his cause with greater warmth and energy." 
               "I give him no greater credit than is his due," said the man, boldly; "and he is a coward, a liar, and a villain who dares to utter any thing to the contrary." 
                
               "How?" exclaimed Marcelli and his companions in a breath, and starting to their feet. "What is the meaning of this?" 
               "What I have said, Captain Marcelli," replied the man. 
               "Ah! you know my name?" 
               "Yes, and that of your proud master, the Prince Bianchi." 
               "A spy! a spy!" cried Marcelli. "You cannot leave this room, you must submit to become our prisoner." 
               "Who dare attempt to detain me?" shouted the supposed peasant, in a commanding voice. 
               "So daring!" cried Marcelli. "Speak, fellow-who are you?" 
               "The villain, the empty boaster you were so anxious to see-Allessandro Massaroni, the brigand chief!" 
               He threw back his disguise, and revealed his brigand dress, as he spoke. The officers seemed thunderstruck at this unexpected meeting. In a moment, however, they recovered from their confusion, and drawing their swords, rushed towards him. 
               "Yield, villain! robber!" cried Marcelli. 
               "Yield yourself, empty braggart!" replied the chief, at the same time discharging the contents of one of his pistols at the unfortunate captain, and he fell bleeding and insensible on the floor. Massaroni then sprang from the window, and joined his associates, who were engaged with the soldiers outside. The combat was a savage one, but the chief soon found that he had been too precipitate; for the troops were too powerful for them, and finding that defeat was probable, he began a retreat at the head of his band. The troops pursued them some distance, but, unacquainted with the mountain passes, the brigands easily eluded them, and regained the cavern in safety. 
               The troops, finding pursuit useless, returned to the inn, where they encamped; and having dispatched a messenger to the Prince Bianchi, informing him of what had taken place, and applying for a reinforcement, they lost no time in making their arrangements, and were most sanguine in their expectations of success. 
               The indignation of the Prince Bianchi, on hearing of the daring of Massaroni, and his escape, may be readily imagined; but he still flattered himself that, as the troops were so close upon his track, their ultimate success was certain. 
               "By the mass!" he ejaculated, "the rascal must and shall be stopped in his lawless career, or there is no power in the Eternal City. Man or devil, he must be captured!" 
               The reinforcement was accordingly raised, and the Count di Strozzi, who was anxious to revenge himself for the outrage committed against him, volunteered to take command of the troops. 
               The parties having joined, they determined to lose no time in the execution of their enterprise; they therefore commenced the ascent of the mountains. They had not proceeded far, when the report of a carbine was heard, and one of the officers fell dead upon the earth. The count and his men looked around in amazement and alarm, but no one could be seen. They advanced a few paces further, and two or three other shots were fired, which also had a deadly effect, and yet no person was discovered. 
               "It will never do to proceed in this manner," said the alarmed Count di Strozzi, "or the destruction which our secret enemies will effect among us, may prove fatal to our enterprise. We must endeavor to procure a guide." 
               For this purpose they turned back, and notwithstanding they used every precaution, yet occasionally one or two of the invaders were brought down by a well-directed fire from unseen hands. At length, after running the gauntlet of an unseen foe, they gained the valley, and returned to their recent quarters, and the count immediately offered a liberal reward to any one who would act as a guide. A detachment was sent out for this purpose, but without success. At length the count, accompanied by a large party of picked men, sallied forth. After marching a league or more, they came upon a lowly hut, in a sequestered spot, and leaving his men at the door, the count entered, and found in the humble room no other persons but an old woman and a lad of about fourteen years of age, who seemed much startled by his appearance. 
                
               "I require a guide over these mountains, my good woman," said the count; "can you tell me of any one on whose honesty I can depend, and who, for a liberal reward, would be willing to undertake the task?" 
               The old woman paused, and eyed the count narrowly. 
               "Ah! signor," she said, "that is a dangerous business to undertake, and especially at the present time." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because Massaroni, the brigand, is secreted there." 
               "You know this brigand, then?" 
               "Aye, by the saints! do I, and fear him." 
               "It is he and his band of whom I am in search." 
               "Ah! signor," said the old woman, speaking in a low voice, as if she feared that the chief, or some of his band might be at hand to overhear her, "I wish that that terrible man might be overtaken; for it's enough to frighten people out of their wits to hear of his daring deeds, though they do say he's a friend to the poor. That may be, but I never experienced it, and Heaven forbid that I should ever receive the smallest portion of that which is obtained unlawfully." 
               "Well said, my good woman. Have you no husband? have you no one but this lad?" 
               "I have a husband-and a kind, honest man is old Pietro." 
               "You seem to be very poor." 
               "Aye, poor enough, God knows! but still we are content." 
               "Would you not like to better your condition?" 
               "Aye, signor." 
               "Your husband, no doubt, is thoroughly acquainted with all the mountain passes?" 
               "Oh, yes, signor." 
               "Then he is just the man I want. Do you think he will, for a rich reward, become my guide?" 
               "Why," replied the old woman, "Pietro is rather old and feeble; besides, he would fear Massaroni's vengeance." 
               "I can and will protect him from every danger. When do you expect him home?" 
                
               
                   
                     FLORIO CLAIRVILLE. 
                  
                
                
               "Everey moment, signor, but if you wish to see him, I will send Pablo in search of him." 
               The count expressed a wish that she would do so, and the youth was accordingly sent on the errand, and the count awaited the arrival of the old man with impatience, but confidence. He came at last, and Di Strozzi was much struck by his appearance. He seemed to be quite aged, long grey hair hung upon his shoulders, and he supported himself by a staff. The count quickly acquainted him with his wishes, offering him a large reward if he would undertake the task, and questioned him minutely as to his knowledge of the various passes, the whole of which Pietro answered most satisfactorily. 
               "I am not unwilling to serve you," said Pietro; "but you see that I am quite infirm." 
               "Put on a good resolution, and be ready to accompany me to-morrow morning by the break of day." 
               "I shall be in readiness, signor." 
               "You will then have no objection to accompany me to-night to my quarters, where you will be in readiness for the task." 
               Pietro did not seem altogether satisfied with this arrangement, but was finally prevailed upon to attend him. 
               The count presented the old woman with a purse containing the reward agreed upon, and Pietro, having bade his wife and grandson good night, departed from his hut in company with the count and the soldiers. 
               On their arrival at the place of their destination, refreshments and lodgings were procured for old Pietro, and they stationed a guard at his door to prevent any treachery. 
               By the first blush of morn, the count and his soldiers were up and ready for their departure to the mountains, and old Pietro was summoned to guide them on their way. 
               Having reached the mountains, they began the ascent, which Pietro did apparently with much difficulty, and several times paused to rest himself. 
               "This is a gloomy path," observed the count; "It is a very fit haunt for robbers." 
                
               "True, signor," replied the guide; "and it is the sure way to lead to them." 
               They went on with much difficulty, and at every step the path grew wilder and darker, until nothing could exceed the horror of the scene. The count ordered a halt. 
               "This is an awful place, old man," said he. "Are you sure that you are leading us right?" 
               "Quite, signor; there is no one better acquainted with these mountains than I am, not even Massaroni himself. Hark! hush!" 
               They all listened, and very distinctly heard the voices of men in the distance, singing a wild chorus. 
               "Those are the brigands," he whispered.-"Come on, signor; you could not have selected a surer guide to the bandits' retreat than old Pietro." 
               He once more led the way; and at length they entered a dark glen, which was overhung on either side by frowning precipices, the bare aspect of which was sufficient to strike terror into the breast of the beholder. Arriving at the end of this, they found that it was entirely blocked up by a massy wall of rock, and the worst apprehensions of the count were now all but confirmed. 
               "Whither have you led us?" he demanded, hastily, "and which way are we now to proceed?" 
               "My errand," said the guide, standing erect, and no longer speaking in the querulous accents of old age, "is at an end, and the only advice I can give you, is to proceed through the rock, to be sure!" 
               "Traitor!" cried the count, as he leveled his pistol and fired; but to his amazement, and that of his followers, the singular being merely raised his hand, with a laugh of scorn, caught the bullet, and, returning it to the count, he cried: 
               "Fool! what pistol shot has the power to harm Allessandro Massaroni?" 
               As he gave utterance to these words, he seemed to sink into the earth, and instantaneously disappeared; and as he did so, the brigands suddenly covered every surrounding hill, while an immense body of them appeared in the rear, and every means of retreat seemed to be cut off. Massaroni now again appeared, having divested himself of his disguise, and appearing before the Count di Strozzi, he said: 
               "You see, my lord, that it requires better generals than the Count di Strozzi to capture Massaroni and his bold band. The glorious day for Italy has not yet arrived, when the brigand chief will be handed over to the tender mercies of the executioner; neither will his Highness, the Prince Bianchi, at present gain very ample satisfaction for the loss of his gold, or his choice tokay! Ha, ha, ha! On to the dastard knaves, my brave comrades, and suffer not one of them to survive the story of their defeat! Thus does Allessandro Massaroni avenge himself on those who dare seek to hunt him from his lair!" 
               Dreadful was the slaughter that ensued.-Hemmed in on all sides, the unfortunate soldiers had but little chance to escape, until Massaroni, tired of the bloodshed, and having inflicted a mortal wound on the Count di Strozzi, gave the word to his band to cease and withdraw, and suffer the small number of soldiers that survived the dreadful affray to make good their retreat. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  Count Alberti.-A Friend when least expected. 
                
               IT was night, and the Count Alberti was seated in one corner of his gloomy cell, pondering on the misery of his fate, when he was suddenly aroused by hearing the bolts of the door being withdrawn cautiously, and the next instant one of the brigands entered, closed the door silently after him, and secured it on the inside; he then approached the count, but without uttering a word, said, in whispering tones- 
               "Be not alarmed-I am a friend." 
               "A friend!" repeated Alberti, hopefully. 
               "Aye," returned the man, "if you accede to my terms, which are, that you promise to ensure me a free pardon for my past crimes, and money sufficient to enable me to retire to some foreign country, where I may end my days in honesty and repentance, and be secure from Massaroni's vengeance." 
               "Most willingly will I agree to all these conditions, and faithfully perform them," answered Alberti. 
               "Then at the hour of midnight expect to see me again. Most of the band have gone forth on a predatory excursion. Those who are left behind, are sleeping under the effects of a powerful drug which I mixed with their wine. I have some preparations to make, and will soon return." 
               In the gratitude of his feelings the count pressed the brigand Storaldi's hand, and the latter retired. 
               An hour elapsed, and Storaldi returned, bringing with him a brace of pistols, a stiletto, a mantle, and a brigand's hat. The count quickly donned the apparel and the weapons, and then followed Storaldi from the dungeon, and after cautiously passing by the drugged sleepers, the count found himself once more enjoying the open air. Storaldi took his arm and urged him forward. In the course of an hour they arrived at a spot, where stood two horses, saddled and bridled, and attended by an old man, who appeared to be awaiting their arrival. The count mounted one and Storaldi the other, and without stopping for explanation, they galloped away at full speed. 
                
               It was well nigh morning, ere the brigands awoke to a state of consciousness, and they then stared at each other with stupid amazement, but with a vague idea that all was not exactly right. 
               "Ah! where is Storaldi?" asked one. 
               Oh, probably with the prisoner," replied another. 
               This answer did not appear an improbable one, and they immediately repaired to the cavern, in which the Count Alberti had been confined; but judge of their consternation to behold the door standing wide open, and the place entirely deserted. 
               "By the infernal host!" exclaimed one; "Storaldi has turned traitor! He and the Count have escaped-we are ruined. What is now to be done?" 
               No one could reply, and they stared at each other with looks of the utmost astonishment and alarm. One or two of them were for taking to immediate flight, but they could not bring their minds to that point, and while they were discussing the subject, Maria Grazie suddenly and unexpectedly made her appearance among them. 
               "How now," she peremptorily demanded; "what means this scene of confusion? What has happened?" 
               "We are none of us to blame for what has taken place," stammered out one of the men. 
               "What has taken place, ye trembling cowards, that you fear to divulge it to a woman?" 
               "It is the traitor Storaldi who is the cause of all." 
               "Storaldi, what of him?" 
               "He has fled, and the Count Alberti has escaped with him." 
               "Ah!" cried Maria, in a tone of the greatest excitement, "Alberti escaped! Villains, how is this?" 
               In trembling tones one of the brigands related such facts as he was acquainted with, and as he proceeded, the fine, handsome countenance of the brigand's wife evinced the utmost indignation. 
               "Traitors! cowards!" she exclaimed, when he had concluded; "and is this the manner, in which you guard the interests of that chief, who has sacrificed so much for you? Think ye he will be deceived by such a tale as this? Oh, but this night's work shall cost you dear." 
               The brigands looked significantly at each other, and muttered something among themselves. 
               Maria drew from her belt a brace of pistols, and leveling them with a determined air, she cried- 
               "Villains! dare ye murmur? Dare ye to threaten Maria Grazie, woman though she be? Back! back! all of you, cowardly dogs, or, by the holy cross! the first who dares to disobey, shall perish on the spot! In, I say, to confinement until the return of your chief!" 
               The brigands dared not disobey, although they might easily have overpowered the daring woman. Like so many children, she drove them before her into the cavern, which the Count Alberti had so recently occupied, and locked and bolted the door upon them. 
               She then threw herself upon a seat, and gave her mind to meditation. Daylight found her still watching, and anxiously waiting for the return of her husband, who was abroad on a perilous expedition. 
                
               But how was the deeply-wronged and persecuted Olympia situated, during the time of the occurrence of the events we have recorded? What was her anguish, her despair, as she looked upon the noisome walls of her dungeon, and pressed her poor, innocent, unconscious babe to her bosom? But it was not the confinement, nor the probability of the fate that was in store for her, that tortured her most. It was the base, cruel, heartless treachery of that man for whom she had sacrificed everything; to whom her soul was devoted, and for whom she would freely lay down her very life. 
               One night, as she was wrapped in dismal reflections, she was aroused by hearing a footstep cautiously approach the place of her confinement. And now, beset by numerous fears, she started to her feet and listened with breathless attention and anxiety, her breast filled with emotions as to who it could be that was about to obtrude upon her at that solemn hour of the night. 
               She now heard the bolts of the door cautiously withdrawn, and the key turned in the lock. The door flew back on its hinges, and Olympia started and trembled with horror when the gaunt figure of Dragoni, one of Rinaldi's ruffians, presented itself to her sight. She could not repress a scream, and retreated to the remotest corner of the cell. 
               "Silence, signora," said the ruffian; "you but waste your breath; there is no one to hear you. I came to communicate to you that which I have been long anxious to, but never till now had a fair opportunity." 
               "For the love of Heaven, what mean you?" demanded the terrified Olympia. 
               "Simply this, beauteous damsel," replied the miscreant, approaching and seizing her hand, "that from the first moment I beheld you, your charms have made a powerful impression upon me; and robber as I am, I've resolved to possess you at all hazards. By an artful invention of mine, Rinaldi and the greater part of his band have been induced to quit the cavern for a while, and there is nothing left to baulk me in my purpose; prepare, then, to yield to my wishes, lovely lady, and we will immediately leave this place, and that liberty which you are so anxious to obtain, and which Rinaldi will ever refuse you, shall be yours." 
               It would be utterly impossible to describe the feelings of shame and horror which pervaded Olympia's bosom, while the robber Dragoni was making this brutal speech. 
               "Monster!" she cried; "dare you thus insult me? Begone, wretch, or fear the vengeance of offended Heaven!" 
               The ruffian laughed outright in the derision of his soul. 
               "Of what use is all this opposition?" he said; "have I not already told you that my determination is fixed?" 
               As the villain spoke, he encircled her in his embrace, and endeavored to pollute her lips with his unholy kisses. 
               "All merciful God, help me!" cried Olympia; "oh! protect me in this trying hour!-Help! help!" 
               Gradually she found herself growing weaker in the grasp of the miscreant, and her destination seemed to be inevitable. At that critical moment she espied a stiletto in his girdle. She clutched it in her hand, drew it forth, and plunged it to his heart. 
               The ruffian uttered one hideous groan-his features became frightfully distorted, and he sunk upon the floor a corpse. 
               Olympia immediately seized the dead robber's cloak and threw it over her shoulders; then she caught up her sleeping child, and wrapped it carefully in its folds. The miscreant's hat, too, she donned, and taking his pistols, she rushed from that horrible prison, and after traversing a long passage, which was lighted by dim lamps, she found herself once more breathing the free air of heaven. 
               "Heaven help me!" she inwardly prayed, "and guide me to a place of refuge!" 
               During the remainder of that night, she traveled on, she knew not whither. When morning dawned, she threw off the ruffian's hat and cloak, imagining that she was beyond the reach of pursuit. The atmosphere was now clear and mild, and all around as serene as possible. She avoided the high road as much as possible, and at length found herself in a dense forest. Exhausted with her extraordinary exertions, she sat down beneath a clump of trees, and fell asleep. 
               Night came on, and when she awoke, the moon's bright beams glimmered through the foliage. Suddenly she was startled by hearing the sounds of numerous approaching footsteps, and by the subdued voices of men in earnest conversation. They were evidently approaching in the exact direction of the spot where she sat, and to fly was impossible. By the moon's light she was enabled to distinguish that there were some dozen of them, and to all outward appearance they were simple rustics. She listened with breathless attention, and could hear distinctly what was said. 
               "Yes, Carlotz," said a voice, which struck with the power of an electric shock upon the ears of Olympia, "you speak the truth; we are now in the right direction, though we have previously wandered from our way, or we should now have been more advanced on our journey." 
               Who shall describe the emotions of Olympia, as she recognized in the tone of the voice that uttered these words, that of Massaroni? She could not suppress an exclamation of surprise, which immediately attracted the attention of the brigands, and they directed their attention to the spot whence it issued. 
                
               "It is a female," exclaimed the chief, "and apparently in a state of exhaustion. Quick, Carlotz, the lantern and the flagon." 
               Carlotz advanced, and opening his lantern, threw its full light upon the pale countenance of Olympia; but how Massaroni started, when in a moment he recognized her. 
               "Signora Olympia!" he exclaimed, "is it possible that fate has so guided us to you, whom we were going to rescue? This, this, is indeed fortunate." 
               "Massaroni," gasped forth Olympia, "you profess yourself, and I believe you to be my friend, and willing to serve me to the utmost of your power." 
               "Yes, yes," fervently returned the brigand chief, "but what brings you in your present situation?" 
               As he put these questions, he raised her from the earth with the utmost respect. 
               "Every explanation I will give you anon," she replied. 
               "Well, well," said Massaroni; "it is getting late; come, signora, resign your infant to the care of one of my band, and lean on me for support. Not far from this is a cot where I am well known, and where every accommodation shall be furnished you." 
               Accepting the arm of the brigand chief, after having first resigned her infant to the care of Carlotz, she walked on with renewed hope. A half an hour's walk brought them to the door of a neat cottage. Massaroni gave three peculiar knocks and they were admitted into the comfortable-looking apartment, where refreshments were provided, after which Olympia was conducted by a female attendant to a chamber allotted her. 
               Another morning dawned, when she was awakened by the female, who seemed specially assigned to attend upon her, and who informed her that Massaroni was awaiting her below, and was ready to resume the journey as soon as they had partaken of the morning repast. Olympia immediately arose, feeling invigorated after her night's rest, and having returned thanks to the Almighty for having thus preserved and supported her through her many difficulties, she pressed her child fondly to her bosom, and descended to the apartment, in which Massaroni was awaiting her coming. He received her with the utmost respect, inquiring with the affection of a brother after her health, and requesting to know whether she felt herself in a condition to travel for the present. 
               She assured him that she felt fully competent to undertake the journey, and fervently returned her acknowledgments for his kindness. 
               The morning repast being over, a vehicle drove up to the door. Massaroni handed her into it, and following himself, they proceeded on their journey, and in the course of a few hours they arrived at the cottage of old Montaldi. It was here that he first learned of the escape of Alberti. 
               "Escaped!" cried Massaroni; "is it possible, or do my ears deceive me?" 
               "It is true," replied Montaldi. 
               "Diavolo!" cried the chief, stamping furiously upon the floor, and his countenance flushed with rage. "Who have dared to turn traitors?" 
               "Storaldi." 
               "Storaldi!" reiterated the chief; "may eternal curses light upon the wretch! Has it then come to this, that Massaroni can no longer depend upon his own comrades? Oh, but the dastardly knave shall not escape me, even though he has placed himself under the protection of Alberti, and terrible is the vengeance I'll wreak upon his head!" 
               On the following day, Massaroni, taking the arm of Olympia, proceeded with her from the house, and bent his way by a circuitous and unfrequented route towards the place of his secret retreat. On the way thither, Massaroni, perceiving that something seemed to press heavily upon the mind of his companion, questioned her, and then she related to him all the particulars of a meeting with a strange woman, called Ottavia, and to whom we have alluded in a previous chapter. 
               "Unfortunate woman," said the chief, "it is evident that she has been the victim of some heartless miscreant, and I sincerely pity her." 
                
               "Your observations do honor to your heart," replied Olympia; "I confess that she has made an impression upon me that I shall not easily forget, and I am desirous of an opportunity of beholding her again." 
               "You shall do so. Did not her remarkable resemblance to yourself strike you?" 
               "It did, indeed." 
               "I wonder not at it," said the brigand; "and it is this fact that makes me anxious to become acquainted with the details of her history, and who she actually is." 
               "But since the escape of Alberti, do you feel yourself safe in your retreat?" asked Olympia, eagerly. 
               "Oh, yes," replied Massaroni; "nature has made it impregnable, and should any enemy venture to approach it, it will only be to rush to almost certain destruction. But see, we approach the narrow path which leads to it." 
               In spite of all her efforts to the contrary, and the repeated assurances of Massaroni, Olympia could not but feel a trembling sensation steal over her, as she gazed upon the wild scenery. But she had very little time for reflection, for they entered upon the devious and difficult way which Massaroni had mentioned, and she thought she could perceive the dark shadows of human forms moving about in the distance. She clung closer to Massaroni, and hesitated to proceed. 
               "Be not alarmed, signora," he observed; "those you see are only some of my band on the watch. Hark! I will convince you." 
               He gave a shrill whistle, which was immediately answered by a similar signal. At length they arrived at the spot where the brigands were standing, and they saluted their chief and his fair companion with the utmost respect. They then removed a large stone concealed behind some brushwood, and revealed the entrance to their secret haunt. 
               After passing through a subterranean passage, they stopped at an oaken door, which was strongly secured on the inside, and at which Massaroni knocked three times. It was immediately opened, and Massaroni leading Olympia forward, she beheld herself in the principal cavern of the brigands, who were assembled there in great numbers who gazed upon her, as she entered, with much curiosity. 
               "Retire!" commanded the chief, and the men instantly obeyed, and he led her to a seat. 
               "Thus have we arrived at the end of our journey. No harm can come to you in the strong retreat of the brigands; and you will find much better accommodation here than you could have expected; but, first, I must introduce you to Maria Grazie, my wife." 
               "She is here," replied a voice behind him, and the brigand's wife stood before them. 
               Olympia started at her sudden appearance, and gazed upon her with timid looks. The handsome figure and countenance of Maria could not fail to excite her admiration, but there was a peculiar expression in her eyes, as she fixed them upon her, which created anything but pleasurable feelings in her breast. 
               "Maria," said Massaroni, "I recommend the Signora Olympia to your care; you will, I am sure, find her every way worthy of your friendship." 
               "The signora is unfortunate, I believe," replied Maria; "and she therefore has my sympathy." 
               "I thank you for your kind words," replied Olympia. 
               Massaroni now received a summons from without, but soon returned, and, from the expression of his countenance, it was evident that he had heard something which disturbed him. 
               "You seem agitated, Allessandro," said his wife; "you have received some disagreeable intelligence?" 
               "I have," he replied; "and my indignation is more than ever excited against the Prince Bianchi." 
               "Ah! how is that?" 
               "Florio Clairville, the young artist, has been thrown into a dungeon by order of the prince." 
               "Unfortunate man!" ejaculated Olympia; "what will be the anguish of the Signorina Melina? But how could he have incurred the vengeance of the prince?" 
               "Goaded on to despair," replied the chief, "he ventured to break through the stern decree of the prince, and to seek a private interview with Melina, which she granted him. One of the prince's servants overheard the appointment and apprised his master of the same. The lovers met at the hour assigned, when they were suddenly pounced upon by his Highness and his attendants; a scuffle ensued; the prince drew his sword and was rushing upon Florio, when he stumbled, and his sword penetrated the bosom of Melina." 
               "Gracious Heavens!" exclaimed Olympia, with much emotion, "is it possible? What a dreadful tale is this!" 
               "Do not alarm yourself," said the brigand; "the wound which Melina received, although severe, is not a dangerous one." 
               "But what became of the unfortunate Florio?" 
               "He was dragged to a prison, by orders of the prince, where he now lingers, and from which, I am resolved, at all hazards to rescue him." 
               The conversation was here interrupted by the announcement of old Montaldi, and with him, the poor maniac lady, Ottavia, was ushered into the cavern. 
               Upon the unfortunate being all eyes were immediately fixed with the deepest expressions of sympathy, and Olympia felt a sensation at her heart which she found almost impossible to control. Ottavia was very pale, and her eyes wandered wildly and vacantly around the place for a few moments, and she seemed to have no idea where she was, or to recognize the presence of any one, except Montaldi. 
               "Unfortunate lady," said Olympia, in tender accents, "how awful is the wreck that cruelty and oppression have made here." 
               The words seemed to strike upon the ear of the maniac, and to arouse her into temporary consciousness. 
               "Ah!" she exclaimed, "what angelic tones are those? I have heard them before! Yes, they have often haunted me, but then it was only in some sweet, delusive dream, and I have looked in vain for the fair spirit from whom alone they could have proceeded. Oh, how sweet-how soothing. Speak again, heavenly being, and impart consolation to the wretched outcast's benighted soul. No, she will not listen to me; it is all a mockery of my poor distracted brain." 
               She turned away and sighed deeply.-Olympia, who was moved by no common feeling of emotion, gently approached her, and kindly took her hand. The maniac started at the touch, and fixed her bright eyes wildly but earnestly upon her. 
               "What is this that now haunts my imagination?" she cried; "who art thou, so lovely and celestial? Camest thou from Heaven to cheer me by thy presence? What features are those I gaze upon? Do my eyes deceive me?-No-no; it is the same bright vision that has so often haunted my imagination. Speak, tell me who and what art thou? Such was I before I fell; ay, thy very image; art thou my shadow, the counterpart of myself, sent hither to remind me of what I once was? Speak again, fair spirit, for my very soul hangs in transports over the tones of thy voice," and the darkness and obscurity seemed to vanish from her bewildered brain. 
               "Poor victim of oppression," said Olympia, "how my heart bleeds for thee. May Heaven have mercy upon thee, and once more illumine thy dreary path with the rays of reason and happiness." 
               Ottavia continued to fix her eyes with the most intense earnestness upon Olympia's countenance, and seemed to hang upon every syllable to which she gave utterance. 
               The conversation continued in this strain for some time, when Montaldi signified to her that it was time to return. 
               "No, no," cried Ottavia, passionately embracing Olympia, and clinging to her; "you shall not part us-you shall not tear me from her. Fair maiden, speak-you will not let them separate us." 
               "Be calm, my good Ottavia," said Olympia, in her most gentle and persuasive accents, "and yield to the wishes of your kind protector. To-morrow we will meet again, and every day, I trust, while I remain here. Farewell, and may Heaven's blessings light upon you." 
               "Thank you!-bless you!" said Ottavia; "to-morrow, then, to-morrow; yes, and he will be here to-morrow; I know he will not disappoint me-and we will be so happy!" 
               With these words the two unfortunates embraced fervently, and then the demented, unknown lady, with much reluctance, retired with Montaldi. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  The Encounter.-The Recognition.-The Prince and his Niece.-Florio in his Dungeon.-A Midnight Visit. 
                
               WHILE Montaldi was conducting his unfortunate charge towards the cottage, a man enveloped in a dark mantle suddenly appeared before them, and gazed with an intense earnestness upon the countenance of Ottavia. He was a tall, ill-looking man, long past the meridian of life, and whose countenance seemed agitated at that time by a variety of evil passions. 
               "By the infernal host!" exclaimed the man, in hoarse tones, "it is she! my eyes cannot deceive me!" 
               The tones of his voice appeared at once to smite the ears of Ottavia, and fixing her wild eyes full upon him, she uttered an exclamation of mingled horror and astonishment, as she cried- 
               "Ah! 'tis he! the villain! The murderer of my innocent, the dark phantom that has haunted my wandering imagination through so many dreary years. Do you not see him? Do you not mark with what malignant triumph he gazes upon me? Let him not escape!" 
               Laughing, however, exultingly, the stranger presented a pistol towards the astonished Montaldi, in a menacing manner, and turning upon his heels, was out of sight in an instant. 
               "Gone-gone!" shrieked Ottavia. 
               "He!-who?" demanded the bewildered Montaldi, eagerly. 
               "You say you pity me, and ask that question? Release me from your hold, old man, and I will follow the cowardly, heartless miscreant to the remotest corner of the earth.-Oh, my poor, innocent little one!" 
               "What mean these strange expressions, Ottavia?" cried Montaldi; "answer me, I beseech you." 
               "No, no," said she, after a pause, "I was deceived. Ask me no question, I dare not answer them. Let us in! bar all the doors! or there will be murder done!" 
               Overcome by the excitement of her feelings, the poor maniac gradually sunk into the arms of Montaldi, and became wholly unconscious. He bore her in his arms into the cottage, placed her upon a couch, and watched over her during the night. 
                
               
                   
                     THE LOVERS. SEE CHAP. XIV. 
                  
                
                
               And now it becomes necessary that we should return once more to the Villa Rosa. For many days after the incarceration of Florio Clairville in a dungeon, Melina remained in a precarious state, more from the excitement of her mind at the melancholy events which had taken place, than from the wound she had received. Her whole thoughts were fixed upon her lover; the fate that probably awaited him, through the revengeful disposition of her uncle, and the excruciating anguish of mind which Florio must be enduring on her account. 
               The Prince Bianchi, too, was racked by a variety of the most torturing thoughts, over which, however, his pride and obstinacy predominated, and he determined that nothing should save Florio from his vengeance, unless Melina renounced him altogether, and consented to become the wife of Count Alberti, should he ever be restored to liberty, which he could not but hope that he ultimately would. For the purpose of gaining some information touching Massaroni and his band, he resolved, one day, to visit Florio in his dungeon, with the hope that he might extort something from him. With this view, the prince bent his way towards the prison. He found Florio traversing his dungeon in the most excited manner, and on beholding the prince he turned upon him a look of mingled reproach and contempt, though his heart at the same time was yearning to know the condition of Melina. Bianchi shrank beneath his gaze, and for some moments he did not look up. 
               "So, my lord," said Florio, "you have condescended to visit the victim of your injuries in the dreary dungeon to which you have consigned him. I will not reproach you; but if your are capable of feeling any pity towards me, I implore you to make me acquainted with the fate of the unfortunate Signorina Melina. Tell me, does she still exist?" 
               "She does, and is rapidly approaching convalescence." 
               "Thank Heaven for that!" said Florio, fervently; "but for what purpose has your highness visited me?" 
               "To elicit information," replied the prince; "your friend Theodore executed a likeness of Massaroni; and, therefore must have seen him before his appearance at Villa Rosa?" 
               "He did." 
               "And were you in his company on the occasion?" 
               "I was." 
               "'Tis well," said the prince triumphantly, "we shall soon arrive at the truth." 
               "Do not flatter yourself, my lord, for you may be doomed to disappointment." 
               "Ah! say you so? Remember the danger which hangs over your head. Do you know where you are?" 
               "These blackened walls, this gloomy cell, will not allow me to be ignorant, your highness." 
                
               "And yet you may have the means of regaining your liberty." 
               "Indeed! But how?" 
               "By revealing to me the place of Massaroni's concealment." 
               "Never!" 
               "Beware, young man! you had better not refuse." 
               "To save my life I would not betray him." 
               "Rash youth, reflect!" 
               "There is no necessity for it, my lord, for my mind is already made up." 
               "Tortures then shall wring the secret from your breast!" said the prince. 
               "I will brave them," firmly answered Florio; "you cannot inflict upon me severer tortures than those I now endure." 
               "Idiot!" cried Bianchi, furiously, as he stalked from the cell; "then take the consequences, for on no other conditions than those I have offered can you expect any mercy from me." 
               The prince returned to Villa Rosa, and to his surprise D'Amalfi met him at the door. 
               "Alberti," ejaculated the prince, "is it possible that I have the pleasure of once more beholding you at liberty?" 
               "I have indeed escaped the clutches of the daring villain Massaroni; and by the dome of St. Peter's I will not fail to have an ample revenge for the manifold injuries I have received from him. But how fares the coy and lovely Melina?" 
               "Indifferently, as you may well suppose; the beggar Clairville still holds paramount possession of her heart; however, I have him secure in prison; so you have nought to fear from him." 
               "Clairville in prison!" exclaimed Alberti, joyfully; "this is, indeed, welcome intelligence." 
               "But tell me, Alberti, how have you been so fortunate as to effect your escape from Massaroni, for I am impatient to know." 
               "The particulars are told in a few words," said the count; and he then briefly related to the prince that with which the reader is already familiar. 
               "By the saints!" exclaimed the prince, when the count had concluded; "and I am much deceived if he be not shortly in our power." 
               "He shall be so at all hazards, and then we will have ample revenge. But tell me, my lord, what has happened since I have been away." 
               The prince, in as few words as possible, related to him all that he desired, to know, and did not disguise from him the repugnance which Melina still felt toward him. 
               "But her obduracy must be conquered, my lord," added the prince; "she knows that I am determined, and will not dare to set my will at defiance." 
               "Enough, your highness," said Alberti; "I am satisfied with your determination. Separation from the fair Melina has but strengthened my love for her. I long to behold her again, and to breathe my vows in her ears." 
               "That you may do forthwith," said the prince; "and I trust you will not be daunted by the reception she will probably give you." 
               With these words, the prince summoned Melina's waiting-woman, Floretta, and desired her to inform her mistress that her company was required in the reception room. 
               "Heaven give me strength!" ejaculated Melina, on being informed that the visitor she was summoned to meet, was none other than the Count Alberti. 
               She arose, and supporting herself on the arm of Floretta, she proceeded to the apartment in which her uncle and Count Alberti were awaiting her. 
               She paused on the threshold, and her heart palpitated violently. The door was standing open, and her eyes encountered those of the count, who advanced hastily towards her, took her hand, and conducted her into the room. 
               "I need not state the great pleasure it affords me," said Alberti, "to behold the fair Signora Melina again, after so long an absence; but I regret much to see her looking so pale and ill, and trust that the roses of health will shortly be restored to her cheeks. Allow me to salute one who has never been absent from my most anxious and fondest thoughts for a single moment." 
               As he spoke, he bent one knee, and taking her fair hand, which she endeavored to withhold, he pressed it warmly to his lips.-The blood of Melina curdled in her veins with shame and indignation. The count, however, led her to a seat, while she maintained a perfect silence. The prince, in the meantime, stood aside without offering to make any observation; but at the same time he fixed a penetrating eye upon his niece, and watched her conduct with feelings of jealousy and suspicion. Melina trembled; she knew that her uncle's eyes were fixed on her, but she dared not look up, lest by encountering his gaze she should be overpowered altogether. Oh, how anxiously did she wish for the termination of that interview. 
               "Fair Melina," at length said Alberti, taking a seat by her side, "why this coldness? Have you not one word to congratulate me on my escape from the power of the daring villain, from whom I have endured such manifold and unpardonable injuries? What have I done to merit your scorn?" 
               "The Count Alberti," replied Melina, in a voice of timidity, "forms a wrong estimate of the character of her whom he addresses, if he believes her capable of being indifferent to the welfare of any of her fellow-creatures, however circumstances may prevent her from feeling that personal respect for them she would otherwise wish. Pardon me, my lord, if I may appear too bold and uncharitable; but your observations have elicited from me that which I would fain have kept confined to my own breast. My uncle must already have made you acquainted with my sentiments; and that will, therefore, save me the pain of having to repeat them to you." 
               She looked up as she spoke, and to her confusion and dismay found that the prince had retired from the room, and that she was left alone with the man she so much dreaded and despised. The emotions which at that moment filled her bosom may readily be imagined; but she mustered sufficient fortitude to arise from her seat, and advancing towards the door, she said: 
               "My lord, this is taking an undue advantage, and unbecoming you. Our interview is at an end. I can consent only to see you in my uncle's presence." 
               "Stay, lovely, but scornful Melina," ejaculated the count, striding towards her, and detaining her as she was about to retreat by the door, "you must not, shall not, leave me thus." 
               "Let me go, my lord," cried Melina. "Unhand me-I will not be detained." 
               As she spoke, she forcibly withdrew her hand from his hold, and retreated from the room before he had recovered from the astonishment and confusion into which the unexpected firmness of her manner had thrown him. 
                
               To return to Florio Clairville. One evening when the turn-key had brought him his rations, he placed a slip of paper in his hand, and immediately vanished. With eager impatience Florio rushed beneath the light which was suspended from the roof of his cell, and read the following: 
               "Do not attempt to speak to me, for the walls may have ears. I am your friend.-Courage, prudence-and to-morrow at midnight shall see you safely beyond the walls of this prison. Destroy this as soon as you have perused it." 
               How shall we describe the feelings which swelled the bosom of the unfortunate Clairville as he read these lines? He sank upon his knees, and clasping his hands vehemently, he exclaimed: 
               "Great God! for this Thy merciful interposition, I thank thee!" 
               The hours rolled heavily away, and scarcely had the prison clock tolled the midnight hour, when the door of his dungeon was cautiously unbolted, and the next moment the jailer stood before him. He was enveloped in a large mantle, and his hat was so slouched down over his forehead as partially to conceal his features. He carried a package under his arms, which unfastening, he revealed to the gaze of Florio the disguise of a monk, which, by significant signs, he instructed him to assume without delay. 
               Clairville obeyed, and a stiletto and pistol were placed in his hands. The stranger then led him through the different subterranean passages of the prison, which seemed to be interminable, and were only feebly lighted by the rays of the lamp which the jailer carried with him. At length they reached a low door which the guide unlocked, and they found themselves in an open court-yard.-They crept along cautiously by the wall, and at length arrived in sight of the sentinel on duty, whose back being turned towards them, he could not observe them. Before Clairville could have any idea of his design, the jailer sprang upon the unfortunate sentinel, and burying his poniard deep in his side, he fell to the earth a corpse without uttering a groan. 
               Clairville was shocked at the suddenness and inhumanity of this deed; but his conductor gave him no time for reflection, but urged him through the outer gate, and on beneath the walls of the castle. When they had proceeded a short distance, Clairville was startled by hearing a shrill whistle to which the jailer replied. Soon several men were observed approaching them, and before Florio had time to recover from his surprise, he heard his own name repeated in a well-known voice. 
               "Is it possible? Massaroni!" 
               "Aye, signor," replied the brigand chief, as he grasped cordially the hand of Florio; "it is, indeed, your friend who has the pleasure of congratulating you on your restoration to liberty. Jacomo, you have well performed your duty." 
               "Ah!" said Florio, "then it is to you that I am indebted for this inestimable service?" 
               "Yes, signor," replied the brigand. "The weight of my gold, and my influence with this worthy fellow, have effected all. The base designs of the Prince Bianchi against you are dofeated." 
               "How can I express to you my thanks for this disinterested kindness?" asked Florio; "for the risks you have run, and-" 
               "Enough, enough," interrupted Massaroni, impatiently; "for what I have done I require no acknowledgments but those of friendship. But come, there is not a moment to be lost; there is no knowing how soon your escape may be discovered, and there is danger in delay. I have horses waiting yonder, and when we have gone some distance, we can talk further on this subject." 
               Florio did not attempt to utter another word, but suffered Massaroni and the other brigands to conduct him away from the spot, and having reached the secluded place where the horses were waiting, they mounted them, and were soon proceeding with great speed towards the mountains. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  The Letter.-The Miniature.-The Plot thickens. 
                
               THE fourth day after the escape of Florio from prison found Melina sitting in her chamber, absorbed in dismal reflections. She was aroused from her meditations by the entrance of Floretta, who cautiously closed the door after her, and placing her finger on her lips, enjoined her to silence. 
               "I have good news to impart to you, my dear lady," said Floretta, in an under tone. 
               "Good news!" repeated Melina, with a look of incredulity and impatience. 
               "Yes, my lady. Signor Clairville is safe, under the protection of Massaroni; and I bear with me a letter, addressed to you from Clairville himself." 
               "A letter!" cried Melina, and her whole frame convulsed with the violence of her emotion. "Where is it? Dear, dear, unfortunate Florio!-Give it me." 
               Floretta placed the letter in Melina's hand, who gazed at it eagerly, recognized the well-known characters, and pressing it to her lips, bedewed it with tears. For some moments the power of her emotions would not allow her to break the seal; but at length, with a trembling hand, she did so, and perused the contents. Eloquent and affectionate were the sentiments it breathed, and the damsel's heart palpitated violently in the mean time. He gave a minute detail of his escape from prison, and of his present situation; expressed the most painful anxiety to know all that had happened to her since they had last met; and concluded by assuring her of the continued fervor of the passion he entertained for her, and by seeking to inspire her with the hope that fortune would yet smile upon them, and the clouds of sorrow which at present obscured their sun of happiness would be dispersed. 
               "Beloved Florio!" ejaculated the maiden, when she had perused the letter again, "I will endeavor to think so too; this letter has removed a weight of insupportable anxiety from my bosom.-But how came it into your possession, Floretta?" 
                
               "I was walking, my lady, about a quarter of a mile from the villa, when one, who appeared to be a holy father, suddenly crossed my path, addressed me by name, and told me that he was the lieutenant of Massaroni, under whose protection Signor Clairville at present is; and then desired me to deliver that letter to you, and that he would await an answer at nine o'clock in the evening on the same spot. He then vanished in a moment, leaving me in a state of astonishment." 
               "Then will I write an answer at once," said Melina. "You will be ready to convey it to Rubaldo at the hour appointed?" 
               "I will, my lady," cried Floretta; and she then quitted the apartment. 
               Melina locked her door to guard against sudden intrusion, and with a heart overflowing with emotions of the most powerful nature, set herself to her important task. Pathetic indeed was the language in which that letter was couched, and tears dimmed her eyes while she was writing it. At length it was finished, and she rang the bell, summoning Floretta into her presence. 
               "This letter, Floretta," said she, "I commit to your care, not doubting but that you will be cautious in delivering it to the proper person." 
               "You may depend on me, my lady." 
               "I know I can, my good girl," said Melina, kindly; "and I am under the deepest obligations to you for all the numerous services you have rendered me. But beg of the lieutenant to let me hear from him again as soon as possible." 
               "I will, my lady," said Floretta, who withdrew, leaving Melina to her own reflections, the nature of which we need not seek to portray. 
                
               The hours passed by Florio Clairville during the absence of Rubaldo, who was his messenger to Melina, were of the most tedious and anxious description, and his mind was tormented with the most painful and conflicting doubts and apprehensions. 
               "Rubaldo tarries," he observed to Massaroni; "I fear he will fail in accomplishing his object." 
               "Fear not," replied the chief; "Rubaldo knows well his business." 
               "Yet, it is reasonable to suppose that they will force Melina to the altar." 
               "I have given you my word that Melina shall, under no circumstances, become the wife of Alberti." 
               "I have often thought, Massaroni," said Clairville, changing the subject, "what a pity it is that a man possessing your excellent qualities, should be placed in the questionable position you now are. Nature has formed you to adorn the first rank of society." 
               "You have touched a tender point," replied the chief, with emotion. "But I have my reason. You remember the night of the festival at Villa Rosa?" 
               "How can I ever forget it?" 
               "You recollect my emotion on accidentally beholding the portrait which the Prince Bianchi has concealed in a certain apartment?" 
               "I do." 
               "And you know not the exact history of that portrait?" 
               "Common rumor says that it is the portrait of a lady to whom the prince was once devotedly attached, but who died in the youth and bloom of her beauty." 
               "Examine this miniature," observed Massaroni, taking one from his bosom, and presenting it to Florio; "do you think you have ever before seen any thing that resembled it?" 
               "By Heaven!" exclaimed Clairville, "it is the very counterpart of the portrait you've just alluded to. Whom does this miniature represent?" 
               "My mother!" replied Massaroni, solemnly, "as she must have appeared in her days of youth and beauty; such were her dear features as I remember them in the days of my childhood." 
               "She is no more?" 
               "Dead! dead!" 
               "And her name?" 
               "At present I must not reveal it; for by so doing, I might counteract the ends of justice." 
               "And is your father still alive?" 
               "I know not; but have every reason to believe that he is." 
               "His name?" 
               "I know not; but have heard that he was of noble rank, but his conduct proved him to be a villain at heart; and so far from my feeling any regard for him, I cherish the most deadly feelings of hatred and revenge. He found my mother an innocent, unsuspecting girl; he won her affections, and promised her marriage; in a fatal hour he robbed her of woman's brightest jewel-her honor! I am the offspring of that connection." 
               "But did he not fulfill his promise by making your mother his bride?" asked Florio. 
               "He did not, the heartless scoundrel.-My mother endured every misery: deserted by her friends, she struggled on for years, and at length, nature being exhausted, she died in my arms. I became a wandering, friendless outcast; accident at last placed me in the hands of brigands, from whom I received every kindness, and at length, on the death of their chief, I was promoted to the situation I at present occupy." 
                
               Their conversation was here interrupted by the announcement that Rubaldo had returned, and a letter was placed in Clairville's hand. It was from Melina. 
               No sooner did he behold the well-known characters, than he pressed it to his lips in a transport of joy. The brigand retired to another part of the cavern, whilst Clairville proceeded to peruse the contents of the love missive; and he pondered over every syllable with feelings of the most indescribable delight. The ardent and affectionate language in which that letter was couched was no more than Florio had anticipated, and, for a short time he felt as though a heavy weight of care and anxiety was removed from his heart; and as though hope once more began to dawn upon him. 
               Rubaldo was now ushered into his presence, and told him that he had received certain information, through one of the prince's lacqueys, that, on the Monday night following, Melina was to be forced to the altar, then and there to be wedded to Count Alberti. 
               "Then all is lost!" cried Florio; "her doom is sealed! The prince is inexorable, and my misery is complete." 
               "Say not so," said Massaroni, advancing. "You view things on their dark side. There is hope for you, and certain confusion and disappointment for your enemies. I make no empty boast. In a very few days Melina shall be far out of the reach of danger." 
               "Impossible!" 
               "Nothing is impossible for Massaroni to accomplish, that can be done by human agency," replied the chief. "Farewell, for the present. I go to make the necessary arrangements for my expedition." 
               "Thanks, thanks," said Clairville; "and may every success attend you." 
               Massaroni pressed the hand of his friend, and, accompanied by Rubaldo, took his departure. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                  The Crisis. 
                
               TIME flew swiftly on, and at length the fatal and much dreaded Monday night arrived, and Melina was informed by Floretta that all the preparations in the chapel for the marriage ceremony were completed, and that the Prince Bianchi and Count Alberti were closeted together. 
               "Oh! this is most cruel-'t is monstrous!" ejaculated Melina; will nothing move them to relent?" 
                
               "Nothing, my lady," said Floretta; "but I have a note for you," and she placed the missive in her hand. 
               "This is the handwriting of Massaroni. What can he have to communicate?" 
               "Good news, I trust, my dear lady," answered her attendant; "he is evidently close at hand." 
               Melina broke the seal, and read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Let not Signorina Melina give way to despair; Massaroni is still her faithful friend, and will rescue her from the fate with which she is threatened, at the hazard of his life.-Courage, lady. At the hour of midnight you may expect me. Prepare yourself to act with confidence and resolution, and trust to the honor of- 
                           
                              "ALLESSANDRO MASSARONI."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Daring man!" ejaculated Melina; "how can I avail myself of his generosity and honor. Heaven direct me how to act! Yes-it must be so-I have no other alternative but misery and degradation; the prince, my uncle, is inexorable, and he therefore leaves me no choice." 
               "True, my dear lady; and who shall dare to blame you, or to question the purity of your motives? You may depend upon the strict honor of the brigand chief, I am confident. Courage, and all will soon be over. I will not forsake you, but will follow your footsteps through whatever fortunes it may be your lot to experience." 
               "Thanks, thanks, my kind and faithful Floretta," said her mistress; "without your advice and consolation I should indeed be a wretched, lost being." 
               She felt inspired with fresh courage as she gave utterance to these words. 
               An hour more had passed away, and Melina, supporting herself on the arm of Floretta, quitted her apartment, and made her way to the room in which her uncle and the count were impatiently waiting to receive her. The prince immediately advanced towards her, and said: 
               "Melina, the hour has arrived that decides your fate: the bridegroom is present; the priest who is to join your hands awaits our arrival at the altar; and, therefore, since you see that there is no escaping from the alliance to which my prudence and experience of the world and mankind have destined you, it is time to throw away those airs of diffidence and repugnance that-" 
               "My lord," interrupted Melina, with an air of determination, "hear me, whilst I solemnly, and in the face of High Heaven, protest against this monstrous, unholy, and unnatural sacrifice. I am but a poor, weak, and unprotected girl, since I have been deprived of that affection and consideration, which the ties of consanguinity ought to have urged you to bestow upon me. Still, I boldly tell you, that if you compel me to become the wife of that man whom I so thoroughly detest, that I cannot find language sufficiently powerful to express my aversion, you doom me to infamy, to misery, to death, and my fate will be upon your head.-To you, Count Alberti," she continued, fixing upon him such a look of scorn and abhorrence, that made him quail, "I do not condescend to make any appeal, well convinced that you are totally insensible to every feeling of honor or manly pride, or you would never persist in following up a suit, which will bring curses upon your--" 
               "Cease, rash, obdurate girl!" interrupted the Prince Bianchi, in the greatest possible state of excitement. "My lord, I beseech you not to notice her words." 
               "Beauteous Melina," said Alberti, "when you have become my bride, it will be my study to convince you of the injustice you have done me by the opinion you have formed of my character and principles." 
               "Your character! your principles!" retorted our heroine, with a look of contempt and disgust; "you do well to boast of them; they are known to the world. Your conduct towards Olympia, and her tender offspring, your child, has stamped you in the mind of every virtuous individual, as a villain." 
               "A villain!" repeated the count, and his lips quivered with rage. 
               "Aye, my lord, I do not recall the word, and I see plainly that your conscience acknowledges that it is not misapplied," 
               "Mad girl!" exclaimed her infuriated uncle; "I have no longer patience with this. Time presses.-Are you prepared, my lord?" 
               "I am, your highness," answered the Count Alberti, mustering all the firmness and indifference to the observations of Melina that he could command. 
               "Enough," said Bianchi, grasping the arm of Melina with a vehemence that almost made her scream; "then from my hands receive your future bride. Let us at once proceed to the altar." 
               "Then my determination is fixed!" exclaimed Melina, as she drew a poniard from her bosom. She was about to plunge it into her breast, when Alberti rushed forward and wrenched it from her hand. She sank, overpowered by her feelings, into the arms of Floretta. 
               "Rash girl! what would you do?" ejaculated the prince. 
               "Rid myself of a life which with such a man as the Count Alberti, must become hateful and insupportable to me. Perform your unholy ceremony, and the consequences rest upon your own heads,-Come, my faithful Floretta, lead me to the sacrifice." 
                
               Thus saying, Melina, supported by her attendant, quitted the room, preceded by a domestic bearing a light. A strange bridal procession! 
               "Come, my lord," said Bianchi, after a brief pause; "we tarry; in a short time all will be over, and you will have your bride secure. You look sad, count." 
               Alberti suffered Bianchi to take his arm, and they then quitted the apartment, and proceeded to the chapel, where Melina and Floretta together with a number of attendants were assembled. 
               The priest who was to perform the ceremony was standing behind the altar, but the cowl was drawn over his face and concealed his features. 
               "All here present can bear witness," said the prince, breaking the silence, "that I give my niece, the Signora Melina, whose lawful guardian I am, in marriage to his lordship, the Count Alberti. Proceed with the ceremony." 
               "Hold, holy father! as you would save yourself from the curse of God!" exclaimed our heroine, in a voice of most remarkable firmness, and her fine form assuming an air of dignity. "Here, before this altar I solemnly protest against this monstrous, this sacrilegious outrage. The man to whom the Prince Bianchi would sacrifice me, I detest; they both know it well, for I have frequently declared it to them; the laws of Heaven denounce such a union. Proceed then at your peril." 
               "Girl!" cried the prince, furiously; "do you then to the last persist in opposing my authority?" 
               "You have no authority over my soul's welfare," answered our heroine, resolutely; "you would make me the victim of your caprice; I do not hesitate to tell you so, for this is no time to speak in problems; and if this holy man lends himself a willing instrument to your designs, be the consequences upon his own head. Here stands the Count Alberti, whom you would force upon me as my husband, and I here publicly denounce him as a villain, a seducer, a libertine, a perjurer, and--" 
               "Melina," interrupted the count, almost choked with rage. 
               "Nay, my lord," she continued, "you may writhe under what I say, but you know full well I speak the truth. Where is the unfortunate and confiding Olympia, whose innocence you betrayed, and then deserted?-where is the hapless offspring-" 
               "By Heaven!" again interrupted Alberti, "this is too much for human patience to endure. The Signora Melina raves, she knows not to what she gives utterance. Are you still willing, my lord, that I should become her husband?" 
               "I swear by all the saints that she shall!" replied the Prince Bianchi; "and who is there to dispute my authority? Again I command you, holy father, to proceed with the ceremony." 
                
               "Pardon me, your highness," replied the monk, "but-" 
               "What!" interrupted Bianchi, passionately; "do you dare to raise any objections, after the solemn compact you have entered into with me?" 
               "I never entered into any compact with your highness," returned the monk, in the same calm tone of voice. 
               "How!" ejaculated the astonished Bianchi; "can a man of your holy order and functions give utterance to so atrocious a falsehood?" 
               "I speak the truth, Prince Bianchi," replied the monk. "I entered into no compact with you, and I never will be a party to sacrificing an innocent maiden to one who is unworthy of her, and whom it is evident she hates and despises." 
               "Can I hear aright?" said the enraged Bianchi; "have you then deceived me?" 
               "I have, indeed, my lord." 
               "There is treason afloat," cried Alberti; "we are betrayed!" 
               "Reveal your features!" commanded Bianchi, "or--" 
               "Do not irritate yourself, prince," said the supposed monk, in a very different tone of voice from that which he had hitherto assumed; "you wish to see my features-behold! Allessandro Massaroni was never yet afraid of exposing them to a villain!" 
               As he spoke, he threw aside his monkish garb, and the brigand chief stood revealed to the astonished eyes of all present! 
               Melina uttered a faint scream, and staggered back into the arms of Floretta, while the Prince Bianchi and the Count Alberti were so completely taken by surprise that they stood as inanimate as statues. 
               Massaroni laughed ironically and triumphantly, and springing forward from the place where he had been standing, he was advancing towards our heroine, when Bianchi and the count intercepted him. 
               "It is the mountain chief, the brigand, the lawless thief!" cried the former, furiously; "he has acknowledged himself to be so; a price is set upon the rascal's head;-seize him!" 
               "Be not too hasty, excellenza," said the brigand chief with the utmost coolness, and at the same time drawing his sword; "Massaroni never comes unprovided! Stand back, knaves, I command you; for the first that stirs an inch, or offers to raise the least alarm, is a dead man! The plain and simple fact is this, Prince Bianchi: you would sacrifice your fair and innocent niece to yon trembling scoundrel, and that I am determined to prevent, at all hazards; since it appears that you have forgotten your duty towards her, I must e'en take her under my protection, until you have learned justice and humanity." 
               "Summon the troops outside!" exclaimed the prince. 
                
               "Softly, softly, your highness," interrupted the chief in the same quiet tone; "methinks you reckon without your host. What! ho! there!" 
               Quick at the word, a large body of brigands, armed to the teeth, and headed by Rubaldo, rushed from various places of concealment; but at the same time one of the domestics had escaped to give the alarm to the troops stationed about the villa. 
               The Prince Bianchi started back aghast when he beheld this formidable array, and Melina clung trembling and speechless to Floretta, and was unable to give utterance to a word. 
               "You see, your highness," resumed the chief, "that all resistance is useless. My plans are too well concerted. The wretched priest who would have lent himself to your villainy in uniting your fair niece to the libertine count, has paid the penalty of his guilt; his corpse lies in yonder passage.-The Signorina Melina must with me." 
               "Oh, no, Massaroni," said our heroine; "I cannot, dare not consent: my uncle will relent-I am sure he will." 
               "This is no time to trifle," said the chief; "seize her, comrades!" 
               The brigands were advancing to obey the orders of their chief, when the Count Alberti with drawn sword rushed furiously towards the brigand chief, at the same time exclaiming: 
               "Villain! daring outlaw! robber and murderer! stand back! Dare but to approach her, and my sword shall wreak its most deadly vengeance upon you!" 
               "Ah!" exclaimed our hero; "dare you threaten Allessandro Massaroni? Nay then, e'en take the consequences of your fool-hardy conduct!" 
               As he spoke, he advanced, and their weapons clashed. 
               "Stand back, all of you," said our Hero, addressing himself to his men; "let me alone chastise this presumptuous idiot." 
               The combat was brief, for in less than a minute the Count Alberti sank weltering in his blood. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                  The Confession.-An important Discovery. 
                
               WHILE the combat between Massaroni and Alberti continued, Prince Bianchi was so paralyzed that he could not give utterance to a single word, but when he beheld the count fall, and the chief advance to seize Melina, he started forward with drawn sword, and exclaimed- 
               "Hold! villain! murderer!-ere you bear my niece from my power, your sword must also pass through my body!" 
                
               "Stand back, old man," replied Massaroni, "I would not shed your blood, but by the saints, if you endeavor to obstruct me, your life is in danger. Comrades, obey!" 
               The brigands rushed forward in a body; but at the moment, a party of troops rushed in and attacked them on all sides. The conflict that ensued was perfectly terrific, and the slaughter of both parties was awful, but foremost in danger was the brigand chief. Right and left he mowed down all who came in contact with him. At length, the soldiers were compelled to give way, and retired precipitately from the place whence they had come. 
               "Now, by the dome of St. Peter's," said Massaroni to Rubaldo, "I have a good mind to make an attack upon the villa, and to wreak my vengeance upon all who have dared to foil me in my designs." 
               "Nay, captain," replied Rubaldo, "that would be rash and impolitic." 
               "That Melina should escape me, after all my plans were so well laid for her rescue from the fate with which she was threatened, vexes me; but I swear that I will never rest until I have fully accomplished my object, and restored her to the arms of the man whom I believe to be so worthy of her." 
               Massaroni cast one anxious look at the villa, when he with his band moved towards the mountains, and were soon far away from Villa Rosa. 
               The consternation which prevailed in the villa was intense. Our heroine, perfectly insensible, was removed to her apartment, and the Count Alberti being conveyed to a chamber, a surgeon was called, in order to see to the injury he had received. His wound proved to be a severe one, and it was quite evident that he considered his life in danger. 
               We must pass over the extreme disappointment experienced by Florio Clairville, on the return of Massaroni without accomplishing the object of the expedition. The chief narrated to him all that had occurred, and assured him that, inasmuch as Alberti had received a severe if not a mortal wound, the nuptials could not take place; and that he would soon make another attempt, which he thought must prove more successful. 
               After Massaroni's interview with Florio, information was brought to the chief that the Malvolio, who had once been in the employ of the Prince Bianchi, had been taken prisoner, and that in his attempt to escape, had been shot, and finding that he was dying, desired to make a confession, which concerned not only the brigand chief, but Olympia and Ottavia. 
               Massaroni, somewhat surprised, summoned Olympia and Maria Grazie, and they all repaired to the cavern where Malvolio was lying in the agonies of death. 
                
               The moment the chief saw him, he recognized in him one who had been lurking in the woods for some time. In fact it was he who had crossed Ottavia and Montaldi's path, as recorded in a previous chapter. 
               No sooner did the dying man behold Olympia, than a ghastly expression came over his features, and he groaned aloud. 
               "Ah!" he ejaculated; "you here-oh! 'tis well. Give me one drop of wine, to stay the struggling breath while I acknowledge the dreadful truth." Massaroni placed a flagon to his lips, and Malvolio having sipped of its contents, commenced his guilty recital: 
               "Many years ago, there was a maiden in humble but happy sphere, by the name of Zitella, who was as innocent as she was beautiful; but a villain crossed her path. He had an oily tongue, a fair exterior, and he won the confiding Zitella's affections. An awful calamity deprived her of both her parents in one day, and it was then, under the mask of a protector and friend, he succeeded in working her destruction. A child-a girl was the offspring of this unfortunate and illicit intercourse; and a few weeks after its birth, the seducer deserted his victim. Zitella discovered that he was a nobleman of high-rank, and appealed to him for pity for herself and child. She was repulsed, and it was then that the demon thought entered his mind to rid himself of them both. He employed a desperate ruffian whom he knew he could intrust to perpetrate the fiendish deed-to murder them!" 
               "Oh, horrible!" gasped forth Olympia. 
               "It is nevertheless true, and the miscreant he employed was myself. Wretch though I was, I could not do that deed. I tore the infant from its mother's breast, and sent her forth a wandering maniac. That deeply injured lady is she whom you know as Ottavia! and the villain, her betrayer, is the Prince Bianchi!" 
               "But that child!" demanded Olympia and Massaroni in a breath. 
               "I left it at the door of the palazzo of the late Count Alberti. Lady, you are that child, and Zitella, called Ottavia, and the Prince Bianchi, the proud Governor of Rome, are your parents!" 
               "Oh, God!" cried the astonished Olympia, and she sank insensible into the arms of the brigand's wife, and was conveyed from the apartment. 
               "Is it possible that you have spoken the truth?" ejaculated Massaroni. 
               "The hand of death is upon me," replied Malvolio, "and I swear as I hope for forgiveness for my manifold sins, that I have spoken nothing but the truth. Olympia is the daughter of the Prince Bianchi, and you-" 
                
               "Ah! who am I?" 
               Malvolio tried to answer, but he could not. After two or three desperate struggles, the wretched man sunk back on his pillow, a corpse! 
               Olympia soon recovered her consciousness, and cried out- 
               "My mother! my poor afflicted, deeply wronged mother! I must see her, and press her beloved form to my bosom without a moment's delay!" 
               Meanwhile, Maria Grazie had gone to Montaldi's hut, and brought Ottavia again to the cavern, and into the presence of Olympia. 
               "Mother! beloved mother!" she exclaimed, embracing Ottavia, "it is your wretched, betrayed child who adresses you. Do you not know me? Does not the powerful voice of nature whisper to you who I am?" 
               The poor maniac fixed upon her a vacant look, and laughed aloud as she replied- 
               "You her! you my little innocent? No, no-the cruel world does well to deride me. Go-go: HE will be here to-morrow, and then--" 
               "Whom do you mean?" interrupted Olympia; "the Prince Bianchi?" 
               "The Prince Bianchi!" cried Ottavia, staring widly around her; "who mentioned that name?" 
               "The Prince Bianchi; the father of your child," repeated Olympia, her heart almost rising to her lips as she spoke. 
               "The father of my child! Yes, 'twas he! The whole truth now flashes upon my disordered memory like an electric shock! I seem awaking from some dreadful dream! The Prince-ah, he deserted me when he should have loved the most. But my child! Oh, the monster Malvolio; he whom I saw the other day-he robbed me of my child!" 
               "Oh! thank God!" exclaimed Olympia;-"Reason is resuming its seat. The monster Malvolio has confessed all. It is true he bore your child away, but he had not the courage to take its innocent life; your daughter still lives!" 
               "Still lives!" repeated Zitella (for that was her true name.) "Still lives! where-oh where?" 
               "Here! here! beloved mother!" exclaimed Olympia. "I am that child-your daughter!" 
               "My daughter?" ejaculated Zitella, fixing her eyes with the most intense earnestness upon her face. Ah! the mist evaporates before me-a new light flashes upon my brain-'tis no longer darkness! Those features! I cannot be deceived! God of Heaven! my child! my long lost child!" 
               "Mother! mother!" cried the daughter; and they sunk convulsively into each other's arms. 
                
               For two weeks subsequent to the desperate conflict in the chapel, Melina had been imprisoned in her own apartment, and no one was permitted to enter there except Floretta. The Count Alberti had been writhing upon a bed of pain, almost on the confines of eternity, but his physician now had pronounced him in a state of convalescence. 
               It was at this period that the Prince Bianchi, with a view of defeating any further designs of Massaroni for the abduction of Melina, resolved to remove her forthwith to an estate in a distant part of the country, owned by the prince, where he used to indulge in his libertine propensities at an earlier period of his life. Accordingly, at the hour of midnight, Melina and Floretta were placed in a carriage which drove away at a rapid pace; and just as the first blush of dawn appeared in the eastern horizon, they came in sight of a pretty villa, situated in a sequestered spot, backed, in the distance by the Appenine mountains. 
               "This, then," sighed Melina, as the carriage drove into the villa gardens, "is to be my future prison, until I am made the victim of the odious and guilty Count Alberti." 
               Their arrival had evidently been looked forward to, for no sooner had they alighted than they were conducted by a hoary-headed man to an elegantly furnished apartment, where a delicate repast was already spread for them. A middle-aged woman was in attendance, and in her demeanor showed the utmost respect and deference to our heroine, during the morning meal. 
               The woman, who was called Flora, then conducted them to the apartments which they were to occupy, signifying that beyond them or from them they would not be permitted to go. Melina questioned her, but could elicit nothing save that the place was called Villa Civetta, and that her every want, except liberty, should be supplied her and her attendant by ringing the bell. Flora then retired. 
               No sooner had she gone, than Melina sought that rest which she so much needed, while Floretta, with a true woman's curiosity, began to examine the furniture and closets of the apartment. In one of the latter among some old papers, she discovered a packet, on which was written the name of 'Valentia.' 
               In the course of a few hours, Melina awoke from a refreshing sleep, when she showed her the packet which, for some reason or other had excited her curiosity. 
               "Valentia!" said Melina, starting; "surely I have heard that name before." 
               "Oh, yes, my lady," replied Floretta; "that is said to have been the name of the original of the mysterious portrait at the Villa Rosa?" 
               "True; the young Florentine whom it is said my uncle loved. Alas! I mistrust that the tale which these papers will unfold, will not redound much to the honor of the prince. But, at all hazards, I will gratify my curiosity." 
               Saying which, she untied the packet, and upon the first sheet she took up, these words appeared: 
               "The History of the Unfortunate Valentia di Valori!" 
               "It is a tale of sorrow, then," observed Melina; "but is it possible that this unfortunate Valentia, like myself, can have been a prisoner here?" 
               The maiden commenced reading the manuscript; and, as she apprehended, it was but a narrative of the vile wrongs which the young Florentine had received at the hands of her cruel uncle. Love! seduction! abandonment! followed by imprisonment, cruelty, and probable death. Here are the last sentences of the manuscript, which serve as a key to the whole: 
               "He has been here again, and oh, how stern are his manners. I feel certain that he has deeper and more heartless designs against me. Great God! what can be his intentions towards me and our infant boy. I am very ill; I become more weak every day; Antonio, fear not! I shall not trouble you long! Hark! some one comes! Let me conceal what I am doing, lest-" 
               Here the manuscript abruptly concluded, and left our heroine and her companion far from being satisfied. 
               Long did Melina and Floretta converse upon the probable fate of Valentia and her boy; also regarding the mysterious portrait, the prince and the brigand chief, until they formed the conclusion that Allessandro Massaroni, probably, was the son of Prince Bianchi and Valentia di Valori! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  The Apparition.-Startling Revelations. 
                
               THE Prince Bianchi was in the apartment which contained the portrait of Valentia. He drew aside the curtain which concealed it, and gazed upon it. He started back, trembling, as if he had encountered a spectre, and could almost imagine that he beheld it move, and that its eyes were fixed reproachfully upon him; then the features seemed to change and to assume all the expression of those of the brigand chief. 
               "Powers of mercy!" he ejaculated, "what strange delusion is this? I could almost swear that Allessandro Massaroni had taken possession of the frame! And yet, it is the portrait of Valentia, whom I betrayed to destruction, that I look upon. Let me hide thy likeness from my sight, or the contemplation of thy wrongs will drive me to madness!" 
               He hastily drew the curtain across the painting, and rushed in a state of agony to his own chamber. He tried to banish from his mind the terrible thoughts which seemed to haunt him. It was late in the night, and a deathlike stillness reigned throughout the villa. At length he thought he heard footsteps in the room, and that they approached the couch on which he was reclining. And suddenly-could he be mistaken? Oh, no, it was too palpable-on the wainscot, opposite the end of his couch, he beheld the dark shadow of a human form moving cautiously about; and in another moment the tall figure of a man, enveloped in a cloak, presented itself. 
               Completely thunderstruck by the appearance of this unexpected vision, Bianchi could not repress a cry of horror; but the stranger presented a poniard at his breast, and in an emphatic manner, said- 
               "Silence, old man, for you have no child to deal with. Behold, I am Allessandro Massaroni!" 
               "Ah!" cried the terrified prince: "how gained you admittance? What would you here? Would you murder me?" 
               "I am no midnight assassin, and if I were, your wretched life is not worth taking. I came to see if it be possible to awaken your guilty conscience to remorse, and to repeat to you a tale of the past, touching a once beautiful damsel, named Zitella!" 
               The prince turned ghastly pale, and his lips quivered. 
               "Ah! I thought you could not hear that name unmoved," continued Massaroni; and he proceeded to harrow up the old man's guilty soul, by a vivid narration of Zitella's wrongs, as he had heard them from her own lips, corroborated, as they were, by the previous confession of the dying Malvolio, and concluded by informing him, that Zitella yet lived, and also her child. 
               "Living!" ejaculated the astounded Bianchi, "and the child, too?" 
               "Ay," replied the chief, "and they are now under the protection of one who will not rest until ample justice has been done them." 
               "And who has dared to protect them?" 
               "Massaroni, the mountain chief." 
               "You?" cried the prince, trembling convulsively. "Under your protection? Away! impostor-miscreant-robber-'tis false as hell!" 
               "You shall be made to believe," said the chief, "and moreover, your hired ruffian, fearing to take the life of the innocent you had consigned to his mercy, left her at the door of the palazzo of one of your most intimate friends, by whom she was reared and educated." 
                
               "Ah!" cried Bianchi, a dreadful thought flashing across his brain, and that nobleman was-" 
               "The late Count Alberti di Amalfi." 
               "The late Count Alberti!" groaned the wretched prince; oh, God!" 
               "'Tis true," replied Massaroni; "that child, your own daughter, is no other than Olympia, the victim of the present Count Alberti, and to whom you would sacrifice your innocent niece." 
               Bianchi stared at him for a moment or two in stupefied amazement; but at length, struggling with his feelings, he exclaimed- 
               "It is a mockery-a villanous scheme to entrap me, and to make me commit myself. Olympia my daughter? 'Tis a lie! a base subterfuge! a-a-" 
               The sentence was stifled in his throat, and Massaroni gazed at him with mingled feelings of pity and contempt. 
               "No, no!" almost shrieked the prince, after a pause; "it is impossible! Fiend! devil! who art thou, that comest thus to torture me? Avaunt, I will not believe thee! I-I-oh, God!" 
               Thus saying, the wretched nobleman sunk back upon his pillow in a state of utter insensibility. 
               Massaroni gazed at him attentively a few minutes, and then left the chamber without entirely having accomplished his purposes. He reached the dwelling where he had engaged a lodging, when Rubaldo entered in almost breathless haste. 
               "Ah, what brings you hither, Rubaldo?" 
               "Business of importance, chief. I have discovered the place of Melina's confinement, and have already given instructions to our band-they wait but for orders to proceed to her rescue." 
               "By the saints, Rubaldo, you have acted well," said the chief. "I am ready to attend you immediately." 
               In a short time, Massaroni and Rubaldo, mounted upon mules, having all the appearance of a couple of rustics, rode onward toward the mountains. 
               On a fine moonlight night subsequent to that on which Massaroni paid his recent visit to Bianchi, the Signorina Melina and her attendant, were sitting at the casement of her room, gazing forth upon the romantic scenery within their view. At length Floretta imagined that she discerned an outline of some indistinct and shadowy objects moving towards the villa. She strained her eyes towards the spot, and now she was convinced that a number of individuals were advancing stealthily towards the house. At length they were lost to view by an angle of the building. The next instant a loud crashing noise was heard, as if proceeding from the battering in of doors. 
               The men, whoever they were, had soon evidently forced their way into the house, and the confusion which prevailed below became intense. There was shouting of voices, mingled with oaths and execrations, and the clashing of swords. Another minute elapsed, and the room was filled with armed men. Melina, overpowered by conflicting emotions, fainted and fell upon the floor. 
               "Fortune once more smiles upon the brigand chief!" exclaimed Massaroni; "we triumph! Now, Prince Bianchi, and Count Alberti, will you any longer despise the power of the brigand chief? But we waste time," he added, raising the insensible form of Melina,-"there is not a moment to be lost. Follow us, Floretta; your mistress is now secure from every insult." 
               As the brigand spoke, he rushed from the room, bearing our heroine in his arms, and followed by his band. They soon reached the open air, and having quickly traversed the grounds attached to the villa, they entered upon a wild and woody glade, where a carriage and several horses were in waiting. Massaroni handed our heroine and Floretta into the vehicle, and then mounting a horse by the side of Rubaldo, they were all soon departing at a rapid rate from the neighborhood of the villa. They had driven but an hour or two, ere Melina was perfectly restored to consciousness and to her present situation. At length they heard a confused noise among the brigands who followed behind the vehicle, and they feared that something serious had happened, or that imminent danger threatened. Massaroni rode up to the window of the carriage. 
               "For Heaven's sake, what is the matter?" interrogated our heroine, eagerly. 
               "Do not alarm yourself, lady," replied the brigand; "you are secure from every danger." 
               Then giving the coachman to understand that they were pursued, and bidding him to drive with all possible speed towards their secret haunt, he fell back and rejoined his band. 
               "Quick! quick!" said he; "conceal yourselves, and lie in ambush for them." 
               The brigands in another moment had disappeared, as though they had sunk into the bowels of the earth. 
               A body of troops soon came on, and entered the place where their enemies lay concealed. 
               "By the saints," said one of the officers in command, addressing himself to a companion, "I could have sworn that I saw a large body of men on this very spot, not more than a minute ago; but there is not a sign of a human being here now or within our view." 
               "It is most extraordinary," replied the other. 
               The soldiers moved along the gloomy way, when, suddenly, they were startled by the shrill blast of a horn, and ere they had time to recover themselves, a tremendous fire was opened upon them from every side, and thirty of the soldiers, including their first officer, were stretched upon the earth. This unexpected assault threw them into the utmost state of confusion, and Massaroni, taking advantage of it, rushed out, followed by his band, and made a desperate onslaught on the discomfited soldiers, dealing death and destruction around, and making the air resound again with their shouts of triumph. The troops became disheartened, fell back, and fled in great disorder, leaving Massaroni victor, with only two or three of his men slain, and three wounded. 
               "Bravissimo! my comrades!" shouted the chief; "you have done the work, as you always do, most heroically. Our triumph is now complete!-to horse! to horse!" 
               The brigands were in their saddles again in a moment, and starting off at full speed, they, in a short time, overtook the carriage and their companions. 
               It was now morning, and the brigands were winding their way through the narrow mountain passes. Melina looked forth, and beheld a group of persons descending the mountain towards them, and one figure in advance of the others, she recognized in a moment, and she could not repress an ejaculation of surprise and delight. He bounded with the fleetness of a deer towards her, and at the next moment she was clasped in the arms of Florio Clairville! 
               With what indescribable emotions of joy and gratitude did he press her to his bosom, and bestow warm kisses of the purest affection upon her lips, while Massaroni and the others stood by, and, fully appreciating his feelings, did not offer to interrupt him. 
               "Melina! my own, my adorned Melina!" he ejaculated, gazing fondly upon the beauteous and innocent countenance of her who was far more precious to him than his own existence; "and do I then, indeed, once more embrace thy beloved form? This is a happiness which I never thought to experience. Oh, Massaroni, for this I owe you a debt of gratitude which I shall never have it in my power to repay." 
               "Mention it not, Signor Clairville," replied the brigand. "I am satisfied to know that I have been successful in my designs, and that the Prince Bianchi and the Count Alberti are disappointed in the accomplishment of their wicked schemes. But let us on to the cave, there to refresh ourselves." 
                
               Florio replied not, but followed the chief, supporting his beloved Melina in the ascent to Massaroni's stronghold, there to meet with those who deeply sympathized with them in their joys. 
               "Ah, my beloved, suffering, much injured Melina!" ejaculated her fond lover; "bright vision of my imagination, either sleeping or waking! and has, then, Providence permitted us to meet again, and to breathe forth the sentiments of our hearts? Speak, beloved, and tell me, do I still hold a place in your affections?" 
               "Florio," said the maiden, in a gentle tone, and with a look of reproof, "can you doubt the fervor and sincerity of my love? Indeed, you wrong me by encouraging for a moment such thoughts as these." 
               "Blest assurance, that has made me one of the happiest of human beings!" cried Clairville. "Melina loves me, and what else have I to hope for in the world?" 
               "And yet-" 
               "Yet what, my love?" 
               "Has not fate placed insurmountable obstacles in the way of our happiness?" 
               "Ah! I understand you now," said he, "and I see the full extent of my misery.-The humble painter, the low-born Clairville, is no fitting match for the peerless Melina, of the proud and noble house of Bianchi; and yet you owe the prince no allegiance; he has broken the solemn promise which he made to your mother on her death-bed, and treated you with unparalleled cruelty and injustice; therefore, should you hold his future authority at defiance. Will you be left alone in the world, without a lawful protector?" 
               "I understand you," said the blushing maiden; "you would have me consent to a clandestine marriage?" 
               "And would there be anything criminal in that?" eagerly interrogated Clairville; "will you promise me, that should at any time circumstances permit, you will consent to be mine, and mine only?" 
               "I promise you, Florio, and with all sincerity, that I will never, under any circumstances, become the wife of any other but Florio Clairville." 
               "Enough, enough, beloved girl," said he, pressing her with the fondest transport to his bosom. "I am satisfied; you have made me the happiest of human beings." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                  The benighted Travelers.-The Attack by the Brigands.-A most remarkable and important Discovery. 
                
               IT now becomes necessary for us to deviate from the main thread of our narrative in order to introduce persons and incidents immediately connected with, and of the utmost importance to it. 
               It was a dark, damp, and miserable night, the wind blew fiercely, and, added to the rapidly falling rain, rendered it remarkably unpleasant. 
               No night for travelers this especially through a dismal and almost impenetrable wood, bordering upon those stupendous mountains, among which the hero of our tale and his intrepid band roamed. And yet at an hour approaching midnight, several individuals were wending their way through it. 
               These consisted of an elderly gentleman of noble person and general deportment, mounted on a fine and graceful horse, and a young man who rode by his side. Two attendants followed behind. 
               "By the mass, Adolphus," observed the elderly gentleman, to his young companion. "this is a most unpleasant situation to be placed in; benighted in a gloomy, and apparently interminable forest, in the midst of a raging storm, and without the least prospect of a human habitation, and with no person to guide us on our way." 
               "Yes, my lord," answered the young gentleman; "it is most disagreeable. I confess that I am completely bewildered as well as drenched to the skin." 
               "Well, we have no other alternative but to proceed onward, and trust to Providence to relieve us." 
               They proceeded on for a few minutes in silence, when the young man exclaimed- 
               "Ah! did you perceive that?" 
               "Perceive what?" 
               "I thought I distinguished a human form moving about yonder." 
                
               "It was only fancy, and you must have the eyes of an owl, if they can penetrate this darkness." 
               Suddenly a shrill whistle saluted their ears, and they paused in alarm, and in another moment they were surrounded by a dozen brigands, instantly disarmed, and dragged from their horses. 
               "Well, gentlemen," said his lordship, as coolly as he could, "you have made quick work of it, though I must say that your conduct is anything but courteous and agreeable. May I ask what is your pleasure with us?" 
               "No doubt, you can form a pretty shrewd guess, signor," replied Rubaldo. 
               "I suppose it is money that you want, so you had better take it and begone." 
               "Oh, no, signor," answered Rubaldo, "we must not part with you on such terms as these. You are gentlemen of noble bearing, and our chief, Allessandro Massaroni, would like the honor of being introduced to you." 
               "Allessandro Massaroni, the brigand chief!" said his lordship; "I have heard of him frequently, but I must say, candidly, that I have no desire to be introduced to him." 
               "Massaroni would not lose your acquaintance upon any account. But your names?" 
               "If you must know, I am the Count Eugene de Clairville, a nobleman of France; and this is my friend, Adolphus D'Aubigny." 
               "The Count de Clairville!" repeated the brigand; "this is more surprising still." 
               "And why so?" 
               "That question, my lord, my chief will probably answer; but come-this is but a waste of time." 
               "Well," said the count, "I suppose it is no use to offer any resistance." 
               "I am sure your lordship's good sense will perceive that it is not," answered the brigand. 
               "Lead the way then." 
               In silence Rubaldo escorted them to the path which led towards Massaroni's retreat, and at length entered an apartment of the cavern. 
               "I must leave you here for a few minutes, signors," said Rubaldo, "while I apprise our chief of your arrival, and he, no doubt, will shortly pay his respects to you." 
               With these words the brigand left the prisoners to their own reflections. 
               Rubaldo then sought the presence of Massaroni, and made him acquainted with what had taken place, not forgetting to mention the names of their illustrious prisoners.-The chief without delay repaired to the presence of the count and his friend. They arose on his entrance, and looked at the graceful and dignified person of Massaroni with much curiosity. 
               "Your servant, signors," said our hero, saluting with his accustomed politeness. "I bid you a hearty welcome, and hope you've been put to no very serious inconvenience in being brought hither." 
               "Why, signor," replied the count, "we are somewhat inconvenienced, and trust we may not long be detained." 
               "You will pardon me," said Massaroni, "if I take the liberty of putting a few questions to you; and, as I assure you, they are not dictated by any feeling of idle curiosity, I trust you will not hesitate to answer them with candor and sincerity." 
               "Proceed, signor." 
               "You are the Count de Clairville, a nobleman of France, if I am rightly informed?" 
               "True." 
               "Has your lordship any relatives now living in France?" 
               "Alas, I know not," replied the count, with a sigh. "Many years have elapsed since I saw or heard from them, and it is with the hope of discovering some of them that I am now journeying to my native country." 
               "Were any of them poor?" 
               "Yes; I fear too poor." 
               "And yet you are wealthy?" 
               "True-true," replied the count, with much emotion. 
               "For some time past," continued our hero, "a young Frenchman, the victim of misfortune, has been under my protection; his name is Florio Clairville." 
               "Clairville!" repeated the count, starting, "and a native of France! I never knew one of that name, who was not related to me.-Has he any parents living?" 
               "He has not." 
               "He is living under your protection, you say?" remarked the count; "am I to understand from that, that he is one of your band?" 
               "No, my lord, and I never wished him to become so; he is good and honorable, and worthy of a far better fate than that which has befallen him." 
               "Can I see him?" asked his lordship, eagerly. 
               "Oh, yes, my lord," replied our hero, "I will conduct him to you immediately." 
               Thus saying, Massaroni retired, and in a few minutes returned with Florio Clairville leaning upon his arm. 
               "My lord Count de Clairville," said Massaroni, "allow me to introduce to you the youth of whom I have spoken to you-Signor Florio de Clairville." 
               The count fixed his eyes intently upon the person and features of the young painter but for a moment, then he gave utterance to an exclamation of surprise. 
               "By Heaven! can this be a dream? Oh, God! my brother; even such when about the same age didst thou appear. Tell me, young man, your name, and where you were born!" 
               "My name is Florio Clairville, and I was born but a short distance from Paris." 
               "Your parents?" 
               "Alas! they are both dead. My father, I never knew; but I understand that he committed suicide when I was about four months old." 
               "Gracious Heaven!" exclaimed the count, in a voice almost choked with emotion; "and the names of your parents?" 
               "Antoine and Emilie de Clairville," replied Florio. 
               "Merciful Providence! thy ways are wonderful!" cried the count, embracing him fondly in his arms. "Unfortunate youth-offspring of those who were doomed to experience much unmerited sorrow, it is your uncle, the Count Eugene de Clairville, who thus embraces you!" 
               "My uncle!" ejaculated the astonished and half-incredulous Florio; "have I indeed that happiness?" 
               As he spoke, he gently disengaged himself from the arms of the count and knelt at his feet. The latter, raising his hands above his head, silently invoked a blessing upon him. 
               At length, the count, raising Florio from his knees, and looking earnestly in his face, said- 
               "Oh, youth, the more I gaze upon your features the more poignant becomes the anguish of my mind. Such as you now appear was that brother, whose melancholy fate I have so bitterly mourned, and which fate I was the primary cause of bringing about, and for which God knows what agony of mind I have endured for years; how anxious I have been to know whether fate had still left it in my power to make all the atonement I could for injuries done, and-oh, my brain!" 
               "My lord," said Florio, deeply commiserating the distress of the unfortunate nobleman, "far be it from me to add to the anguish of mind which you are enduring by reproaches, which I know not I have any authority to make use of; and if you should indeed prove to be my relation, it will be my pride to honor you as such, and to show that I am not unworthy of you." 
               "Spoken like my Antoine!" exclaimed the count. "It seems as if he at this moment stood before me. But, your mother-you say that she is no more!" 
               "Alas! she died many years ago." 
               "Did you ever hear your mother mention the name of Eugene, Count de Clairville?" 
               "In her prayers only." 
                
               "It was to seek out her, or any one that might be living of my unfortunate brother's relations, that I undertook my present journey; and there seems to be a Providence in it, in guiding me to the very place in which I was destined to encounter you. Allessandro Massaroni, I owe to you an eternal debt of gratitude." 
               "You owe me nothing, my lord," replied our hero, "and I am only happy to think I have indiscreetly been the means of bringing yourself and nephew together." 
               "Oh, my lord," said Florio, "it seems scarcely possible that I have the honor of being related to a nobleman like yourself." 
               Massaroni here requested that Florio should retire to another apartment for a few minutes while he made an important communication to the count. Florio complied, and Massaroni proceeded to give a brief history of Florio's attachment to the niece of the Prince Bianchi, the trials they had thus early in life passed through, and also the incidents which had placed them both under his protection. 
               When the chief had concluded, Florio was recalled. 
               "My nephew," said the count, "I have already learned much of your history. You have had a full share of the trials and misfortunes of this world, and I feel delighted to hear of your attachment to one so amiable and lovely as the Signorina Melina has been described to me by your friend." 
               "Oh, my lord," answered Florio, fervently, "Melina is all that can be lovely and amiable in woman, of which you will, I am certain, be convinced, when you have made her acquaintance." 
               "And she returns the passion you feel for her?" 
               "With fervor, truth and sincerity; but the prince despises me, because of my humble circumstances, and the supposed meanness of my birth, and would fain sacrifice her to the Count Alberti, who is so unworthy of her-a libertine, a debauchee, and one whom Melina must ever look upon with abhorence and disgust." 
               "But when he finds that your birth is noble," said the Count de Clairville, "will not the prince relent, and give his consent to that in which the happiness of his niece is so deeply involved?" 
               "Oh, yes, your lordship," said Florio, "it is that thought which inspires me with hope, and most delighted will my beloved Melina be at the unexpected intelligence I shall have to communicate to her." 
               At these words, Florio begged to be excused in order that he might communicate the happy tidings to Melina. Our heroine, however, was already aware of what had occurred, having been informed by Maria, and she was awaiting most impatiently the appearance of her lover, in order that she might congratulate ulate him, and to express her joy at the remarkable discovery he had made, and which was likely to effect such a material change in their prospects. 
               Florio at length was announced; he entered hastily, and threw himself in a transport of the most unbounded delight at her feet. 
               Joy-joy! my beloved Melina!" he exclaimed, "fortune at last smiles upon us." 
               "Yes, Florio," said our heroine, "Maria has revealed all, and most fervently do I hope it may prove correct; not that any change of fortune can possibly render you more dear to my heart." 
               "Blissful assurance!" he exclaimed; "what scenes of future bliss now arise to my imagination! The gloomy past will be forgotten, and no troubles or anxieties will again oppress my mind. The Prince Bianchi will repent of his past conduct, and only be too happy to atone for it as far as lies in his power." 
               "Heaven grant that he may!" cried our heroine, fervently. 
               At this moment Floretta entered, bearing a message from Massaroni, requesting that Florio and Melina would join himself, his wife, and other friends in the principal cavern. Here, all parties were made known to each other; explanations were made; and all seemed delighted at the present position of affairs. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                  The Journey.-The Conflict with Guiacolo's Robbers.-Arrival at the old Chateau.-Remorse and despair of the Prince.-Sudden Appearance of the Brigand Chief.-The Catastrophe.-A Joyous Conclusion. 
                
               WE must pass over the quiet scenes of the cavern, during several days subsequent to the time of the compulsory arrival of the Count de Clairville.-The proofs of Florio's relationship to the count were so satisfactory and conclusive, that already had that nobleman declared that Florio should succeed him to his title and estates: but what appeared of vastly more consequence in our lover's eyes, was his promise that he would intercede with the Prince Bianchi, to induce him to withdraw all objections to the consummation of the fondest hopes of the ardent lovers. For this last purpose it was arranged that the parties should set off for an ancient chateau, which belonged to the Count de Clairville, Massaroni agreeing that himself and his band, in disguise, should perform the duty of escort. 
                
               At length, all preparations being made, they set out on their journey. After descending the rugged mountain passes, carriages were provided for the ladies, the count and Florio, and they proceeded on with all possible speed. 
               Our heroine and her lover were in excellent spirits; for the Count de Clairville took good care to encourage them in their prospects for the future. 
               "Once settled at the chateau," said he, "I will lose no time in communicating with the Prince Bianchi, and in pleading your cause before him; and something seems to assure me that I shall be successful, else he must be the most obstinate and unreasonable man in existence." 
               After journeying for a few hours, they entered a thickly-wooded and gloomy part of the country, when they were alarmed by the sudden appearance, in the distance, of a formidable-looking body of armed men, who were evidently in pursuit of them. 
               Massaroni ordered the drivers of the vehicles to proceed on with all possible speed, while the band would conceal themselves, and lie in ambush. 
               "Rubaldo," said the chief, "we must give these fellows a warm reception. No doubt, they are a part of the band of Gaspard Guiacola." 
               Massaroni's men had scarcely time to conceal themselves, when the rival banditti galloped on with the fleetness of the wind, in the full belief that a rich prize would without resistance fall into their hands. In a moment they surrounded the carriages, and demanded an immediate surrender. One of the ruffians thrust his head into the carriage in which the count, Florio and Melina were seated, and cried out: 
               "Your money, or your--" 
               He never finished his threat, for at the instant his brains were scattered by the discharge of a pistol from the hand of Florio Clairville. 
               This first shot served as a signal for those lying in ambush, and in another moment the robbers were attacked on all sides, and the combat commenced with great fury, both parties fighting with desperate determination, while the scene that prevailed was so appalling that Melina, overcome by her terrors, fainted, and was supported in the arms of her lover. 
               The combat, however, was of short duration; for although the assailants greatly outnumbered the escort, the latter fought with such gallant bravery, that there was no resisting them, and at length, many of the ruffians having fallen, the rest took to flight. 
               Congratulating each other upon their victory, they resumed their journey, and in a few hours arrived in sight of the old chateau; and a gloomy-looking edifice it was. No sooner did his lordship gaze once more upon its ivy-colored walls than a deep emotion he experienced was perfectly visible in his countenance, and the most painful sighs escaped his bosom. 
               Every preparation had been made for their arrival, the count having previously dispatched a messenger for that purpose, and when they drove into the courtyard, several domestics stood waiting to receive them. 
                
               It is now due time that we return to the Prince Bianchi and the Count Alberti, who, during the period that the recent events we have recorded were taking place, were subjected to all the torturing feelings of doubt, suspense, hope, and continual disappointment. Bianchi was at times the victim of rage, remorse, and bitter self-reproach. He was fully awakened to a sense of the cruelty and injustice with which he had acted towards his fair and innocent niece; yet the manner in which all his plans had been foiled, and his authority set at defiance, mortified his pride, and at times rendered him almost incapable of controlling his guilty passions within the bounds of reason. But both himself and Alberti were driven to despair when they saw the hopelessness of getting Melina in their power, and reflected upon the probability that she had already become the wife of Florio, through the machinations of the brigand chief, and that thus all their hopes would be annihilated, and their designs rendered abortive. 
               The prince, however would have sacrificed much could she but be restored to him, for the sole purpose now of bringing about a reconciliation, though his pride and ambition would never suffer him to give his consent to her union with one whom he imagined to be so humble and ignobly born as Florio Clairville. Conscience, that terrible monitor, frequently upbraided him for the cruelty and injustice he had practiced towards the unfortunate Valentia and Zitella, and he was in constant fear, should it indeed be true that the latter was living, and under the protection of Massaroni, she would one day come forward to confront him, and to denounce him to the world in his true colors. 
               The Prince Bianchi and the Count Alberti had been one afternoon discussing the position of affairs, when a servant entered the room, and informed his master that a courier had just arrived, who stated that he had a letter which he was to deliver to no one but the Prince Bianchi. 
               "Conduct the courier instantly to my presence," said the prince. 
                
               In a few minutes the courier was ushered in, who placed a sealed packet in Bianchi's hand, who requested him to retire to another room, and not to leave the villa until his further pleasure should be known. 
               The prince hastily broke the seal, and unfolding the packet, he proceeded to peruse the contents; but he had scarcely glanced over half a dozen lines, when he uttered a mingled exclamation of astonishment, and sinking back in his chair, covered his face with his hands. 
               "What is the meaning of this agitation, my lord?" eagerly interrogated Alberti. 
               "Read-read!" replied Bianchi; "read aloud, for I cannot. Melina is safe, under the protection of a stranger, the Count de Clairville, who acknowledges himself to be the uncle of Florio. Zitella living, and her daughter too, and-oh, God!-that daughter, your victim, Count Alberti-she whom we have hitherto known as the poor girl, Olympia! Oh! I am, indeed, most justly punished." 
               With a trembling hand the conscience-stricken Alberti picked up the packet which the prince had cast on the floor, and proceeded to read the contents. In addition to the revelation already stated, they contained an earnest appeal to the prince, in behalf of Melina and Florio, and stating that upon his solemn promise to receive them amicably, he would lose no time in bringing them before him. There was also a most affectionate letter from Melina to her uncle, to prove the truth of the statements of the Count de Clairville, and in which she most solemnly promised to bury the past in oblivion if he would only agree to the propositions there set forth. 
               To attempt to describe the various feelings that distracted the brain of Bianchi, as he became acquainted with these important facts, would be a fruitless task, while the rage of Alberti exceeded all bounds. 
               "It is all false!" he exclaimed; "it is but a base attempt to impose on your credulity, and to thwart us in our designs. Surely, your highness is not to be thus deceived?" 
               "Deceived!" replied Bianchi. "Oh, no; my conscience tells me it is too true. I have too long given way to my evil passions, and trampled on honor and justice; but now that an opportunity is afforded me of repentance and atonement, I must not-will not neglect to avail myself of it." 
               "What would you do?" hastily demanded Alberti. 
               "That which justice demands," replied the prince, "and which I have too long neglected to perform. Remember, my lord, that you have atonement to make as well as myself, and do not neglect doing so, lest the vengeance of Heaven should descend upon your head. Think you I could ever be so base and unnatural as to bestow the hand of my niece upon the seducer of my own child?" 
               The eyes of the Count Alberti flashed with rage, and it was not without the greatest difficulty he exclaimed: 
               "'Tis well, Prince Bianchi: you have deceived and trifled with my feelings; and at this moment I owe you nothing but the most deadly and implacable revenge." 
               With these words, shaking his fist in a threatening manner, the count started from the room, and, hastily summoning his attendants, at once quitted the villa. 
               Immediately after his departure, the prince proceeded to write letters to the Count de Clairville and Melina, in which he earnestly and sincerely expressed his sorrow for the past; his willingness to agree to their wishes, and entreating them to make no delay in hastening to the villa, but at the same time requested that the time of his interview with the unfortunate Zitella and her daughter should be deferred until he had somewhat recovered from the painful excitement into which these extraordinary events had naturally thrown him. These letters he dispatched by the courier. 
                
               More than a week elapsed after the above circumstance, when the Count Alberti was informed that a messenger had arrived at the Villa Rosa, to apprise the Prince Bianchi that the Count de Clairville and his companions were on their way thither, and that if nothing important happened to prevent them, they might be expected to arrive there the following day. This fixed the determination of Alberti, and having the means of gaining admittance to the villa, unknown to any one, he resolved to conceal himself there that night, and to await the issue of all that might take place. He armed himself for the occasion, and desired his servants to be in attendance in the vicinity of the villa on the following day, in case their assistance should be required, and when night had approached, he set forward on his expedition, where we will leave him for the present, and return to the Prince Bianchi. 
               About the middle of the following day a messenger rode at full speed up to the villa, and informed Bianchi that the travelers were within a short distance, and that they might be expected to arrive within half an hour. The agitation of the prince may now be easily conjectured; his heart beat quick, and throwing himself on his knees, he fervently supplicated the support of Omnipotence throughout the trying scene. Soon the rolling of carriage wheels was heard, and in a few moments the Count Eugene de Clairville was announced, and awaited the honor of an interview with his highness. 
                
               With an unsteady gait and a palpitating heart the prince made his way to the apartment in which his lordship awaited his coming. The count met him with the utmost respect and politeness. The prince, who was at once prepossessed in his favor, could not avoid gazing upon him with feelings of shame and confusion; but he soon recovered himself, and said- 
               "My lord, I cannot help expressing to you my heart-felt gratitude for the great interest and trouble you have taken in this painful and important business; but, pardon my anxiety, my much injured niece, and your nephew-say, are they not with you?" 
               "They are, your highness," replied the Count de Clairville; "and anxious to crave your blessing." 
               Immediately he advanced towards the folding doors, which he threw open, and Melina and her lover rushing forward, threw themselves at the prince's feet. With a burst of emotion, such as no language can describe, he raised them, and pressing the beauteous form of our heroine to his heart, tears of mingled delight and remorse gushed from his eyes, and he was unable for some minutes to give utterance to a syllable. 
               It would be a useless task for us to attempt to describe the scene which followed, and the Count de Clairville stood by and watched it with the deepest interest and satisfaction. But what was the rage of the Count Alberti, who stood unobserved behind a screen? He could not without the greatest difficulty help betraying himself, and several times he grasped his pistol, and pointed it towards Florio, half resolved to sacrifice the life of his hated rival on the spot; but some instinctive power, over which he had no control, withheld his hand, and saved him from the perpetration of his deadly purpose. 
               "Oh, Melina!" at length ejaculated the Prince Bianchi, in a tone of voice which sufficiently told the extreme agony of his feelings; "how dare I meet your reproachful gaze after the unexampled cruelty and injustice with which I have behaved towards you? Can you forgive me, when I assure you that I am stung with remorse for what I have done?" 
               "Can I forgive you, my beloved uncle?" replied Melina, and her eyes spoke the sincerity of her feelings; "with what delight, and gratitude to Heaven can I do so, and how cheerfully shall be my task to bury the painful past in oblivion! Oh, my lord, you have made me too happy." 
               "Generous, noble-minded girl!" cried the prince, again straining her to his bosom, "how little deserving were you of the injuries I inflicted on you. May Heaven heap its choicest blessings upon your head and pardon me." 
               "And may I venture to approach your highness," said Florio, in the most respectful accents, "and to solicit your forgiveness for any boldness or presumption of which I may seem to have been guilty, and for any trouble, disappointment and anxiety I may have caused you?" 
               "Florio de Clairville," replied the prince, "it is I who should solicit you for pardon, for I have treated you with the greatest harshness and injustice. But it is now my determination to make you all the atonement in my power, and I thank Heaven that I have the means of doing so, so readily at my hands. You and Melina, I know, have long sincerely loved each other, and your unabated constancy throughout so many trials proves how worthy you are of being united. Take her-take her, and may you both be happy." 
               As he thus spoke, he placed the fair hand of the blushing Melina in that of her enraptured lover, and both kneeling at his feet, he invoked the blessing of Heaven upon their heads; and they were all of them too much overpowered by their feelings for a few moments to be able to speak a word. As for the Count Alberti, he was ready to burst with rage and jealousy, and muttered the most terrible curses to himself on beholding a scene which he had never expected to witness. 
               "Thank Heaven!" at length ejaculated the Count de Clairville, "that all has ended even much happier than my most sanguine anticipations led me to expect, and I cannot but express my thanks to your highness for that which you have done, and which has rendered happy and contented the hearts of those who are so dear to each other. But I have to crave your highness's indulgence for a moment, while I beg of you a favor." 
               "A favor, my lord? name it, for there is no favor which it is possible I can refuse to grant to a nobleman to whom I am so much indebted." 
               "Thanks, excellenza," returned the count; "the favor I have, then, to ask of you, is, that you will allow me to introduce you to one, to whom we are all under a weight of obligation; and that you will be pleased to banish from your mind any prejudices that you may have entertained towards him." 
               The prince looked surprised, but after a pause, he said- 
               "Well, my lord, be it as you wish; let me have the honor of being introduced to this friend of yours; and I trust that I may have no cause to refuse to comply with your wishes to the fullest extent." 
               De Clairville bowed; and then again advancing to the folding doors, he threw them open, and there entered the room the stately and commanding figure of a man who was enveloped in a large cloak, and whose hat was so slouched down over his brow as to conceal his features from immediate observation. He advanced towards the spot where the Prince Bianchi and his fair niece were standing, and was in the act of bowing to them, when the report of a pistol was heard, and with a groan he sank bleeding on the floor. 
                
               In an instant the room was filled with men, including brigands and soldiers of the Prince Bianchi. The perpetrator of the foul deed was seen, for it was the Count Alberti who emerged from the place of his concealment, and received the contents of a pistol in his breast, discharged by Maria Grazie, the wife of the brigand chief! 
               Nothing could possibly exceed the consternation that prevailed among all the guests assembled, and they immediately flocked around the wounded man. 
               "Rash, head-strong man!" exclaimed the Prince Bianchi, addressing himself to the Count Alberti, who was writhing with agony, and had evidently received a mortal wound; "what cursed fate brought you here, and what have you done?" 
               "Slain one who has foiled me in all my designs," replied Alberti, with a ghastly smile of exultation, "and whom you have in vain tried to capture-Allessandro Massaroni, the Brigand Chief!" 
               "Massaroni!" cried the Prince Bianchi.-"Wretched man, have you then at last met with the fate that your crimes have so long invoked?" 
               'Hold-hold! my lord!" exclaimed Florio, starting suddenly forward; "exult not over that which you should so deeply and so bitterly deplore. What, I solemnly ask you, was the name of the original of that portrait?" 
               "Why do you ask that question?" said Bianchi, in a faint and faltering voice, while Massaroni, gently raised in the arms of his wife, fixed upon him a dying look of the most intense and earnest expression. 
               "Answer the question, your highness," entreated Florio, "for there is not a moment to be lost. The name of the original of that portrait is-" 
               "Valentia!" gasped forth Bianchi, covering his face with his hands, and groaning convulsively. 
               "And in Allessandro Massaroni, you behold Valentia's son!" exclaimed Florio, producing the manuscript which had been discovered by Floretta in a closet of the distant villa of the prince. 
               "My son! my son!" groaned the wretched Bianchi, and he sunk into the arms of his attendants. But to attempt to describe the effect it had upon the dying brigand chief would be a fruitless task. He seemed suddenly to acquire more than human strength upon the occasion, and breaking from the hold of his wife, he staggered towards his princely father, and unsheathing his poniard, he exclaimed- 
               "Ah! the cursed betrayer and destroyer of my mother-have I, then, discovered you at last? This to your heart, and so be the cruel wrongs of Valentia and her son avenged!" 
                
               His arm was raised, and in another moment his dagger would have penetrated the breast of the unfortunate and unconscious nobleman, had not Melina started between them, and averted the blow. 
               "Hold! Massaroni!" she exclaimed; "vengeance is for God, and not for man! You have performed your duty to the memory of your mother, and that Almighty Power in whose presence you must shortly appear, will judge you accordingly." 
               Massaroni fixed upon her a look of admiration and respect, and sunk back in the arms of his wife. The brigands were about to rush upon the Prince Bianchi, but he commanded them back with a waive of his hand. 
               "Forbear!" he said; "you have obeyed my orders in life, and will do so now.-The curse of Massaroni rest upon the head of him that attempts to injure that old man. He has sinned, but he is penitent-he is sufficiently punished, and I sincerely forgive him, and may Heaven do so likewise. Sainted spirit of my mother, I hasten to join you! Maria, my wife, Melina, Florio, comrades-all farewell! Allessandro Massaroni, the brigand chief, and the son of his highness, the Prince Bianchi, has ended his career; respect his memory, and let his bones moulder in the earth of his mountain home! I-I-" 
               He could not finish the sentence, his eyes closed, and, sinking back in the arms of his wife, with a gentle sigh, the soul of Allessandro Massaroni, the Mountain Chief, departed to the realms of Eternity! 
               To describe the scene which followed would indeed be a difficult task. The Prince Bianchi, overpowered by the violent emotion of his feelings, had become insensible to all that was passing around him. Our heroine and her lover stood gazing at the corpse of that brave and unfortunate man, to whom they were so much indebted, with feelings of the most profound sorrow, awe and regret. Maria still supported the lifeless body of her husband in her arms, and was as fixed and inanimate as a statue; while the brigands gathered around with mournful expressions in their countenances, and the deepest sorrow in their hearts. But suddenly they were all aroused by a deep groan of the most intense agony, proceeding from the Count Alberti, to whom, in the excitement of the moment, consequent upon the extraordinary catastrophe that had occurred, and the discovery which had been made, no attention had been paid; and it was now evident to all that he was in the last agony of death.-But who commiserated that guilty young nobleman? No one! In fact the brigands were so much exasperated with him, that had it not been for the interposition of Florio, they would have rushed upon him like so many bloodhounds, and have hastened his death. He, with a last convulsive struggle, raised himself on his elbow, and looking wildly around him, he ejaculated in tones that were sufficient to thrill the souls of all who heard them with horror: 
               "Death! death! and must I perish thus? Am I thus at last to be triumphed over?-Melina become the wife of him whom I so thoroughly detest and despise! Oh, torture most unutterable! Massaroni, the brigand chief, is proved to be the son of the haughty Prince Bianchi! I, too, am the seducer of his own daughter! I have caused a wreck around me, and leave behind that which will cause him future agony and grief. I am revenged! Ha, ha, ha! But eternity! I am entering upon it! No-no, I must not die! I dare not meet that fearful judge, whose laws I have so grossly violated! Hold me up! stop the blood that is flowing round my heart! Let not my breath escape me!-Wretches! do you not witness my agony, and yet you stand unpitying by? Ah! that pang! I-I-save me! Oh!" 
               And with one frightful groan, the wretched and guilty man sank back, in the arms of his attendants who had gathered round him, a corpse! 
             
             
               CONCLUSION. 
               It was several weeks ere the Prince Bianchi, and the other persons deeply interested, recovered from the shock which the appalling events we have just recorded had occasioned, and then a deep feeling of regret pervaded the breasts of them all for the fate of the noble-hearted and unfortunate Massaroni.-He was buried according to his wish, with due solemnity and respect, in the immediate vicinity of his mountain retreat, and a marble monument was erected by the Prince Bianchi over the spot, to his memory. His wife would have been handsomely provided for by the father of her ill-fated partner; but her happiness was gone, and for the rest of her days she secluded herself in that retreat where she had passed so many years of her life, and unceasing were the tears which the devoted woman shed to the memory of her husband. 
               The meeting of Zitella and her daughter with the Prince Bianchi, may be more easily imagined than described. He made Zitella all the reparation for the injuries he had inflicted upon her which it was in his power to do; he fixed upon her and her daughter a handsome fortune, and in a few months afterwards the former and Montaldi were united, and thus did he feel sufficiently rewarded for the many acts of kindness he had performed for one, who but for him would have perished. 
               When the excitement of the events we have detailed had somewhat abated, Florio led his beloved and beauteous Melina to the altar, the Prince Bianchi presenting him her hand, and that was a day of universal happiness and enjoyment throughout Rome.-Years of the most uninterrupted bliss crowned their union; and if they ever thought of the past, it was almost without a pang of regret. A numerous and lovely family added to the felicity of their union; and it may be sufficient to say, that, as they increased in years, they endeavored to emulate the transcendent virtues of their parents, and were beloved by all who knew them. 
               The Count de Clairville, who had previously avowed his intention of secluding himself in a monastery, abandoned the idea, and took up his residence with Florio and his wife. He was the almost constant companion and counsellor of the Prince Bianchi, and lived for many years honored and respected, and died regretted by a wide circle of friends and acquaintances. 
               Adolphe D'Aubigny, who was the young travelling companion of the Count de Clairville when attacked by the brigands in the forest, conceived a violent passion for Olympia, which became mutual, and they were united in the presence of all to whom they became so dear, and who were so anxious for their happiness. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            BEN BRACE: 
            A NAUTICAL ROMANCE. 
            BY CAPTAIN CHAMIER, AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF A SAILOR," ETC. 
            
                
             
            EQUAL TO CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S BEST NOVEL. 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
            WE do not hesitate to rank "BEN BRACE" with the best nautical tales of Cooper and Marryatt. It is, indeed, a most brilliant romance of the sea, full of the most exciting incidents of ocean life, vividly described, and abounding with a raciness, of sailor dialogue and adventure, that delineates in a masterly manner, the peculiarities of sailor character. There is a freshness and vigor about the whole work that irresistibly charms the reader, and cannot foil to secure for it an extensive popularity.-Athenum.
             
            A glowing and truthful portraiture of the sailor on the ocean and on the land, in his action and his "yarns." We have never read a more interesting and spirited book. The author is perfectly at home and in his element, and with a pen of graphic minuteness, makes the reader also delightfully at home with the sailor and the sea.-Critic.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
            Just Published-"THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE." Beautifully illustrated. Price, 50 cents. 
          
          
             
            YANKEE JACK; 
            OR, THE PERILS OF A PRIVATEERSMAN. 
            A ROMANCE OF THE WAR OF 1812. 
            
                
                  PERIL AND JACK ABOARD THE PRIZE. 
               
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL. 
            A NEW SEA TALE. 
            This is a thorough-going sea tale, boisterous and stirring, startling, humorous, and rollicking. The ocean and the ships thereon, and the Yankee tar himself, are all depicted with a life-like reality that cannot fail to delight the reader, while his patriotism will receive a warmer glow from the deeds of American prowess on the ocean wave, described in "Yankee Jack" with a graphic power of language rarely excelled. "Yankee Jack," as a faithful reflex of ocean life, has not been excelled by any work of the same and that has been recently published. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales: 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
               
                  BEN BRACE, or THE LIFE OF A SAILOR. Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
               
                  JACK ARIEL, or LIFE ON BOARD AN EAST INDIAMAN. Price 25 Cents. 
               
                  GALLANT TOM, or THE PERILS OF THE OCEAN. Price 25 Cents. 
             
          
          
             
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF COL. MONROE EDWARDS 
            The Accomplished Forger and Swindler: 
            WITH TWENTY GRAPHIC DESCRIPTIVE ENGRAVINGS 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN A. MURRELL," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            
                
                  Edward's experimenting with Acids on Ink. 
               
             
            The history of the above named extraordinary man contains a full and graphic account of all his private adventures, his intrigues, his projects, his trials, and his crimes. It not only traces the career of Edwards himself, but embraces in its details the entire system of the Slave-trade, with the biography of Holcroft, one of the most-daring free traders of 1834, and perhaps at this moment an independent rover of the ocean. It likewise gives an admirable history of the early settlement and wars of Texas, with incidental illustrations of the policy of Houston and other prominent military leaders; and it relates also to the wonderful Dart forgery in Texas, to the amount of $200,000-never before published. Finally, it details the forger's vast projects with the English Government for the conquest of Texas; his schemes in France; and the celebrated forgery on Brown, Brothers & Co., of New York. In connection with this trial, particulars are given of the most peculiar and extraordinary character, deeply affecting parties who have never been exposed.-Price 25 cents. 
          
          
            THE LIFE OF HELEN JEWETT 
            WITH ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "COL. MONROE EDWARDS," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "JOHN A. MURRELL." 
            
                
             
            The author of Murrell has exceeded, in the Life Helen Jewett the merit which he displayed in the History of the Massaroni of the West. This may attributed, in a certain degree, to the peculiar quantities of his last subject, but perhaps is more properly to be accredited to the stronger efforts of a talent, made bold by the favor of the Public. "Helen Jewett is one of the phenomena of modern literature. Without pretension in its style, it comprises all the quantities of pathos, humor, terror, and descriptive tact that belong to an accomplished thought, and its philosophical deductions are reasoned out with a force and point but seldom met with in mere narrative or vain romance. The story possesses, as a novel, deeper interest than the Mysteries of Paris, and we cannot read it without wondering how its strange knowledge was collected by the author, or how he was enabled to methodize it so accurately in the hasty manner in which he must have prepared its weekly chapters for the Press.-Pathfinder-Price 25 Cents. 
            Copies of the above mailed, on the receipt of twenty-five cents, post paid, addressed. 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street, N. Y. 
          
          
             
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JOSEPH T. HARE, 
            The Bold Robber and Highwayman: 
            WITH 16 ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            
                
             
            THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN A. MURRELL," "COL. MONROE EDWARDS,"  AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            The history of the above extraordinary criminal is well deserving a niche in the felon pyramid next beside the marauder Murrell, whose wonderful career has become a part of the history of the West. Though widely different in character from the renowned late pirate, and though the scourge of an earlier generation, Hare possessed qualities scarcely less remarkable than his satanic prototype; and his exploits may claim even a stronger interest, from the fact that he figured * * the first great freebooter of the Republic. If Murrell may be called the "Massaroni of the West," Hare may be designated as the "Ridaldo Rinaldini of America."-Price 25 cents. 
          
          
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JOHN A. MURRELL, 
            The Great Western Land Pirate: 
            WITH 22 ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "COL. MONROE EDWARDS," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            The publishers take the opportunity of saying, that the above work is at once a correct, authentic, and graphic account of the deeds of one of the most daring and prominent men that ever figured in the records of crime. In the South and West, he is still spoken of as without an equal for the energy, capacity, tact, and perservance which he exhibited in carrying out his stupendous villanies.-Price 25 cents. 
            Copies of the above mailed on the receipt of twenty-five cents, post paid, addressed, 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-Street, N. Y. 
          
          
             
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JACK RANN. 
            ALIAS SIXTEEN STRINGJACK 
            
                
             
            BY JAMES LINDRIDGE, ESQ. 
            A Companion to Jack Sheppard. 
            Illustrated from the English Edition. 
            THE Life and Adventures of Jack Rann" is one of the most unique volumes that has recently appeared. The interest is sustained the first page to the last, and the reader is carried through a series of thrills and during adventures and hair-breadth escapes, which startle and enchain the attention in the highest degree. He who would wish to see life in all its phases-see it in a wonderful light, in which the most remorseless criminality is mingled with an inexplicable and dashing chivalry and generosity-cannot find the pictures more faithfully and vigorously portrayed than in the life of "Sixteen Stringed Jack." A curious period English history is also developed in the book. 
            NEW YORK: FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 
          
          
             
            THE FLYING ARTILLERIST 
            
                
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL, 
            AUTHOR OF "YANKEE JACK," "THE THREE PIRATES," "GALLANT TOM," &c. 
            A Military Romance, Founded on Fact. 
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            Illustrated. 
            A WILD, bustling, and picturesque tale of Mexican warfare, written with a Robinson Crusoe particularity and minuteness, that is very charming, and irresistible in its influence to keep up the excitement of the reader from the first page to the last. The character of the Mexican-part warrior and part brigand-is faithfully portrayed, while many beautiful episodes of love and singular adventure are interwoven, and relieve very pleasantly the wild scenes of war. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales:- 
               THE THREE PIRATES. By Harry Hazel, Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
               BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor, Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman Price 25 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean Price 25 cts. 
               THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Mysterious Tale of the Sea. Illust. Price 25 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            EVERYBODY READS JACK'S JOURNAL. 
            
                
                  "OLD SALTS" SPINNING YARNS. 
               
             
            THE YANKEE PRIVATEER, A Weekly Literary and Nautical Journal, 
            DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION OF SEAMEN, AND THE PUBLIC GENERALLY; ILLUSTRATED WITH ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS. 
            EDITED BY HARRY HAZEL. 
            The Privateer will always be freighted, from stem to stern, with a valuable assorted cargo, embracing Original Nautical Novellettes, Forecastle Yarns, Merry Stories, Tales of Sea and Land, Adventures, Humorous Sketches, Nautical Intelligence, Poems, Songs, Jokes, &c., besides a great variety of entertaining and useful matter, of peculiar interest to Seamen, as well as to those who love to read of Life on the Ocean Wave. 
            TERMS, $2.00 per annum in Advance. Single Copies, Four cents. 
            May be obtained at the Periodical Depots in the United States and in the Canadas. 33 per cent. discount made to Clubs of six and upwards. POSTMASTERS authorized to act as agents. 
            Address (prepaid) to J. JONES, Publisher, No. 2 Water St., Boston. 
          
          
             
            THE FLYING ARTILLERIST 
            
                
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL, 
            AUTHOR OF "YANKEE JACK," "THE THREE PIRATES," "GALLANT TOM," &c  
            A Military Romance, Founded on Fact. 
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            Illustrated. 
            A WILD, bustling, and picturesque tale of Mexican warfare, written with a Robinson Crusoe particularity and minuteness, that is very charming, and irresistible in its influence to keep up the excitement of the reader from the first page to the last. The character of the Mexican-part warrior and part brigand-is faithfully portrayed, while many beautiful episodes of love and singular adventure are interwoven, and relieve very pleasantly the wild scenes of war. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales:- 
               THE THREE PIRATES. By Harry Hazel, Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
               BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor, Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman Price 25 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean Price 25 cts. 
               THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Mysterious Tale of the Sea. Illust. Price 25 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            MARY PRICE; 
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT-MAID. 
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, Author of 'The MYSTERIES of the COURT of LONDON,' 'KENNETH,' 'COURT of NAPLES,' &c. 
            REYNOLDS' NEW POPULAR ROMANCE. 
            The immense sale of this deeply-interesting work fully proves the hold it has takeu on popular favor. It is inded one of the most fascinating novels that has recently been published, and exhibits the trials, the light and dark shades of a servant-maid's life, in a manner at once powerful, and such as to absorb the intense interest of the reader. It is in fact a domestic mirror, in which the reader will behold, depicted with truth, all kinds of masters and mistresses of families, and the many good and evil ways in which households can be managed. It is one of Reynolds best efforts.-The Times.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
            Just published, "THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON," in 2 vols, paper, Price $1.-22000 of this interesting work has already been published. 
            Copies mailed on receipt of $1, post-paid, addressed as above. 
          
       
   
