
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Miriam, or, The Jew's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6966
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               MIRIAM; OR, THE JEW'S DAUGHTER. 
               A TALE OF CITY LIFE. 
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               DICK & FITZGERALD,  
                     NO 18 ANN STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
          
             
            DICK & FITZGERALD'S CATALOGUE. 
             
               PIERCE EGAN'S NOVELS. 
               Imogen or the Marble Heart. This is one of the last efforts of Mr. Egan, and is considered by good judges to be the most entertaining story he ever wrote. It is a kind of story that when you once begin to read it, you cannot leave off until it is finished-one that will be apt to make a confirmed novel-reader foolishly set up all night. But no matter for that. If you want a first rate novel, buy this one. It contains nearly 400 large Octavo pages. Price $1 50 
               The Poor Girl. This is the most attractive and entertaining novel we have read in a long time. There is not a dull page in the whole book. If you once begin to read it you can't leave off. The incidents are of the most absorbing character. The sorrows and wrongs of the heroine are of that character which would lead to the belief that some people in this world are born to grief. It is a book of over 200 closely-printed double-column pages. Price 75 
               Hagar Lot; or The Fate of the Poor Girl. This is a sort of sequel to the novel of "The Poor Girl." It is not one of the plentiful namby-pambycisms of the day, but a sound, vigorous, exciting and entertaining narrative, in which the finest style of writing is made subservient to the elimination of one the grandest plots with which we are acquainted. It is a novel in which old and young can find an abundance of unalloyed pleasure. It is a book of nearly 240 pages. Price 75 
               Such is Life. This splendid novel has not a very attractive title, but what it lacks in name it more than makes up in thrilling plot and incident. We hardly know how to praise this novel too much. Pierce Egan has written many books of fiction, and they have all achieved popularity that may not inappropriately be termed unbounded; but we doubt if he has heretofore penned a novel that will surpass in attractive qualities, the one that bears the title at the head of this paragraph. Nearly 300 pages. Price $1 00 
               The Scarlet Flower. This is another of Mr. Egan's vigorous productions. To give a synopsis of the plot would be to destroy the interest which the public must anticipate in it. Suffice it to say that it is one of the most absorbing, exciting and delightful plots that ever emanated from the brain of the practiced romancist. Its interest commences in the first chapter, and is unbrokingly sustained to the last. Some of the scenes introduced are thrilling and touching almost beyond imagination. Over 200 pages. Price 75 
             
             
               J. F. SMITH'S CELEBRATED NOVELS. 
               Stanfield Hall. A Romantic Historical Novel. This book contains 432 closely-printed large octavo pages, and is illustrated with 16 fine engravings. Price $1 50. Among the multifarious productions of modern romance writers, this noble work stands pre-eminently foremost. It is divided into three parts-and in fact contains three distinct novels-each portion illustrative of one of the most marked and famous epochs in the history of England. The stirring events of these times are worked up with consummate skill by the author, and make up a most entertaining romance, a volume that is unparalleled for intense interest by the greatest books of either Sue, Dumas, Bulwer or James. 
               Minnie Grey; or, Who is the Heir? 215 octavo pages. Price 75. This work, by the author of the famous "Stanfield Hall," is written in his very happiest vein. The plot is most artfully designed, and worked out with consummate skill. The reader's attention is secured at the very outset, by the mysterious incidents occurring at the birth of an heir to an ancient family; and the interest thus awakened never flags until the last page of the entrancing tale is reached. 
               Woman and Her Master. A novel containing 228 large octavo pages. Price 75. This fascinating book is from the graphic pen of the author of "Stanfield Hall." The plot is one of the most absorbing interest, and bold, startling incidents occur in almost every page. The reader's attention is not allowed to slumber for an instant, but is hurried along with railroad-like rapidity, from the first to the last chapter. Yet the author has not, in a single instance, over-drawn a character, or sacrificed a single touch of nature for effect. If you want a splendid novel send for this. 
               Harry Ashton; or, The Will and the Way. A novel containing over 200 pages. Price 75. The above is a romance of the most intense interest; so much so, that you cannot drop it until you arrive at the end. Your mind is excited with emotions of pleasure, and then melted to tears; and again you feel happy to find virtue and manliness meet with its just reward, while villany and meanness are crushed to the earth. Like all the charming novels by the author of "Minnie Grey," the plot is skilfully contrived, and the characters are truthfully drawn to nature. 
               Milly Moyne; or, Broken at Last. Large octavo. Price 75. Mr. Smith must have had a stronger motive than usually actuates the romancist when he wrote this book. The characters are so vividly depictured, the scenes are so magnificently framed and wrought up, the incident is so absorbing and so well demonstrated, and the plot is so skilfully conceived and carried out, that we must believe his incentive was extraordinary. Any person who wants a story of most absorbing interest should send for Milly Moyne. 
               Dick Tarleton; or, The Last of his Race. Large octavo, with 112 closely-printed pages. Price 25. "Dick Tarleton" is one of the most thrilling productions we have ever read, and yet the incidents are so true to nature, so life-like, that the reader can scarcely realise the fact that he is reading fiction. 
             
            For a complete list of J. F. Smith's Novels, see page 14. 
            Copies of any books in this Catalogue sent free of postage upon receipt of the price. Send cash orders to DICK & FITZGERALD, Publishers, New York. 
          
       
      
         
            Miriam, or, The Jew's daughter 
             
            MIRIAM; 
            OR, THE JEW'S DAUGHTER. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IT was Sunday-the month December, the year 1851. Service had closed in Trinity Church, the congregation had nearly all left, the pastor and clerk had retired to the vestry room, but the former did not remove his vestments. At this time three carriages drew up in front of the stately edifice, (a building erected in which to worship a Jesus, who on earth "knew not where to lay his head" at the cost of millions in a city where hundreds of poor perish yearly for want of food and clothing) and their occupants entered the church. First came an elderly man-time had silvered his hair with the frosting of nearly sixty years. On his arm leaned a lady a few years only his junior. Close-following came a young man dressed fashionably and with good taste, and to his arm, her fragile form trembling with agitation. clung a lovely young girl of about seventeen or eighteen, fair as a fresh blown rose ere the sun has drawn the dew from it. I will not describe her-description has been run into the ground by a thousand scribblers-I will only say she was purely beautiful, and looked as if she had a soul; it is not every man or woman that does, by the way. 
               The two first were Mr. Brent, a wealthy South st. merchant and his wife-the young lady was his only child; the young man was his intended son-in-law, who from a junior clerk had risen to be the head bookkeeper in his establishment, and whom he intended at no far-future day to make a partner in the concern to which he would ultimately fall heir, as the old gentleman fondly supposed. 
               Mr. Brent had the utmost confidence in the honesty and temperate habits of Charles Brennon, therefore had 
                     rapily
                     rapidly
                   advanced him and now was about to entrust him with that which he prized more than all his princely fortune, his lovely and gifted child, her upon whose education and rearing he had lavished thousands, his petted MARY. 
               Following the four already named, came the groomsman and brides-maid and others, friends to the parties. As they approached the altar the clergyman appeared from the vestry-room, and the fair young couple knelt on the crimson cushions before the railing. The solemn ceremony was performed. Oh, how serious in that grand church, where the light fell cold through the stained window glass, and questions and responses echoed along the silent aisles and up toward the lofty roof, did that ceremony seem. Who would dare to think that vows uttered in a place so holy, so solemn-from lips which love had blessed-vows linking hands where hearts were already bound, could be lightly broken? They cannot! Malice can work many a deep and bitter wrong; it may paint many a foul lie, but it cannot blot a record made in Heaven, or there, hereafter distort the truth! It may triumph on earth, but it will perish there also. 
               The ceremony was completed-the certificate given-the marriage recorded and witnessed, and then the bridal couple reentered the carriages. They were driven at once to the house of the bride's father where such a dinner as befitted the occasion was prepared. All seemed contented and happy. The young wife, whose cheeks had been pale during the trying ceremony, which placed her destiny in the hands of another, now sat in blushing beauty by her husband's side, and Mr. Brent, usually very abstemious, used and passed his old wine with an unsparing hand. It was indeed a happy sight-one calculated to make a misanthrope believe that it is not always winter-time in this world. 
                
               It was the same day. The sun had gone over to shed its last rays on that benighted region, called Jersey; and twilight had begun to spin its flimsy web over Gotham. Charles Brennon and his wife were seated in a cosy little parlor in their own cottage, on one of the prettiest streets in Brooklyn. The building had been bought, fitted up and elegantly furnished, and presented to them as a wedding gift by Mr. Brent, who, the better to learn his son-in-law how to depend upon himself, had restricted his generosity to this present, knowing that the salary of Charles-$2000 a year-was fully sufficient for the support of a young married couple, at least until an increase of family should add to their necessities. 
               "Dear Mary!" said the husband, as they sat side by side, hand in hand on a sofa, "my sum of happiness is complete-I have nothing else to ask for on earth!" 
               "Nor I, my own Charles, except to pray Heaven to give us a long life of such happiness, and never to separate us when the hour of death approaches!" 
               "Amen!" said the husband. 
               His lips approached her's-reader he is about to kiss her-I am bashful-it makes me feel ticklish about the lips to see folks kiss-I'll drop the curtain on this scene. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               A MAN about forty years of age, 
                     fashionbly
                     fashionably
                   and elegantly dressed, wearing however too much jewelry for good taste, but that of the costliest kind, sat in a large room which was furnished in the richest style, but seemed to be an office, for it was surrounded with desks, at each of which sat a person with pen in hand, but none of them were engaged in writing. They seemed to be waiting some news, for they frequently looked toward the door, as did also the gentleman first alluded to, who, seated on a chair, with his legs crossed over each other before the glowing fire, smoked his cigar with evident impatience. From his air of importance, one might with propriety infer that he was the master there. The most singular feature of the apartment was, that though it outside was broad day light, the inside pannelled window-shutters were closely shut, a lighted chandelier hung over the centre of the room, and over each desk a small gas light was burning. The floor was very thickly carpeted, so that a foot-fall could not be heard upon it. Large books, like ledgers or account books, were stuck in openings in each desk, and on the centre-table lay paper and other writing materials. 
               "I wonder why Mr. Catlin stays so late-surely it is time we had telegraphic news of the drawings!" muttered the gentleman whom we may as well name at once as Mr. Grab, of Maryland, in fact, but for the most part a resident of New York, where he acts for the Lottery firm of which he is a part- ner. His confidential agent for whom he waits, is a Mr. Tullius Catlin, a keen but unscrupulous villain-one who has graduated in every degree of crime, but through luck, except in one instance, has escaped conviction and imprisonment. He externally apes, and rather successfully, the air of a gentleman. He wears a breastpin, a large diamond one, which has been reset because it was the proceeds of an extensive robbery, perpetrated by some pals of his, whom he forced to share with him on accidentally discovering their success. He paid for it by helping to conceal and dispose of the "swag." Two of the confederates are now "serving the state," and he will not be long behind them, if Justice only gets her due. But here he enters, just as we are partially describing him, coming, as they say "old Nick" does, whenever he's called for. 
               "Ah, is that you, Tullius," said Mr. Grab, "we have been waiting a long time-it is nearly half an hour later than yesterday, when the news came." 
               "There was but one ticket telegraphed yesterday-to-day there are seven, and with our words it took some time to get it through," answered the new-comer. "But you must hurry, for there are two heavy prizes among the seven, and the tickets are in the packages sent on here! Here are the numbers." 
               "Quick gentlemen," said Grab, as each clerk with a note book and pencil approached him- "take the numbers and be off to the agencies-and if they are sold find out where and who to, and buy them in if you can, if not call in the tickets. You know your duty, and I how to reward you for doing it!" 
               Fast as a clerk noted down the numbers he left the room until the last vanished. 
               "We must invent a shorter set of signals for our work," said Catlin to Grab, as soon as they were alone, "these are too slow and I fear that the telegraph operators may suspect what we are doing. They ask rather too many questions about my mercantile speculations in the South!" 
               "Can't we buy some of them so as to trust them?" 
               "The fewer confidants we have Mr. Grab, the safer are we. The new law bears hard on us. I have a horror for grates and bars!" 
               (Quite natural for one who has tried them.) 
               "So have I, but we are safe from detection, and if detected we have patrons in official positions, who, for their own sakes will shield and aid us!" 
               "That is true Sir, but how cursed poor these official patrons are. They never buy more than a quarter ticket and then as like as not a couple go in shares on it. If it draws they get something, if it is blank why they lose next to nothing!" 
               "That's time, but in for a penny is as bad as in for a thousand, we can use them!" 
               "I hope we shall not have occasion, Sir-but I forgot to tell you I introduced a bang up customer to old Hinkel on Broadway-a clerk in a wholesale house who has rather run above his salary I reckon, as he wanted an advance on his own acceptance. I knew my pigeon, gave old Hink the wink and he cashed the note, and before he left he sold him a bundle of tickets. We've got the numbers, and we must let him win a small snap this round!" 
               "Why do you class him as a good customer when he has to borrow money?" 
               "Because he has the key of his employer's safe, the cash-books to keep, and is in a fair way of getting broke in so as to know how to use them!" 
               "Ho-ho! that's the number of your ticket, eh! I see-well you are a keener Tullius. The man who gets ahead of you has got to be awake by day-light!" 
               "Yes, and all night too!" replied Catlin, with a self-satisfied smile. "But I must be off to look to business!" 
               "Do you need any funds Tullius?" 
               "No sir-have lots of them left, I have a bank besides yours to draw from!" 
               "A bank besides mine?" 
               "Yes, the bank of Cupid I call it-you see there's a lady in love with me and I borrow 
                  row from her occasionally-convenient isn't it?" 
               "More convenient than honorable, for of course you don't mean to refund a cent!" 
               "Certainly not, but let honor go to the dogs, it won't pay a tailor's bill or make a landlord keep you in grub-but adieu-I'm off-the boys will soon be in-there's Scribben now!" 
               "What luck?" asked Grab of the clerk after Catlin retired. 
               "I've saved two prizes out of the numbers, one of seven and the other of two thousand!" 
               "Good as wheat-where did you find them?" 
               "At Hoag's-he was just going to sell the very package when I hinted to him to hold up on all sales. The old rat took, but he passed off a package of the old bogus ones on the customer!" 
               "Good again, he is up to snuff-the best agent we've got. He does outside business enough to make a first rate clerk!" 
               [Reader I will close this chapter, you have seen enough to know one way in which the lottery dealers manage to save themselves and defraud their victims, that of gaining private news of the drawings ahead of that which is made public. Other developments shall follow, and rest assured that this is not a fancy sketch-it is from life.] 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               IN the basement story, or rather in the cellar of a shackling, worn-out frame house in Orange street, a wan and sickly-looking woman, watched over a child not more than six years old. It was her own. Disease had left but a mere skeleton of the poor little thing, and the hand of death seemed to be upon it. The mother sat on the damp floor beside the little rug upon which, covered with only a rag of a blanket the suffering child lay, and tried to sooth its fretfulness. There was no furniture in the room. 
               "The doctor will come soon, Johnny," she said-"the M. P. said he'd go and get one to come!" 
               "I'm so hungry mother!" whimpered the boy. 
               "I know it Johnny, mother is hungry, too, but we'll get something to eat soon. God only knows where!" she added. 
               A knock at the latchless door attracted her attention, and she cried out, "push, it isn't fastened!" 
               A middle aged gentleman appeared at the summons. 
               "Are you the Doctor?" she asked. 
               "Yes-is this your child? My God what a place to be sick in-you must apply to go to the Alms-house-there's a first rate place for the boy at Randall's Island-but let me see-why he is burning up with fever and is nearly dead from want beside-why woman he must take some medicine to break this fever or he will die in less than two hours!" 
               "And I have no money to buy medicine with!" sobbed the woman. 
               "Pshaw-pshaw, don't cry-tears are weakening-here, I'll write you a prescription-there's a dime to buy it with-I'll come back to see the boy to-night-now hurry, there's a drug store ever on Centre, close to you-be quick, your child's life depends on it!" said the kind-hearted physician, turning to go. 
               "Oh Sir, God will reward you-I- I cannot!" 
               "Pshaw-pshaw! no thanks-duty, charity customer, used to 'em down here -get medicine-child may live!" 
               With the last words the eccentric doctor disappeared. The woman put on an old hood, drew the tattered remains of an old shawl about her gaunt shoulders and looking at the prescription the doctor had given her, prepared to go for the medicine. 
               "Mother are you going to get something to eat?" asked the little sick one, piteously. 
               "Mother is going to get something to make Johnny well!" replied the woman, more carefully drawing the ragged blanket over his emaciated form. 
                
               "Oh mother I'm so hungry!' moaned the poor creature. 
               The door was pushed open without knocking, and a negress entered. She was a hideous looking being-she had but one eye, her wool, it could not be termed hair, had become grizzled with age, and raggedly peeped out from under a dirty yellow cotton handkerchief, folded about her head in the shape of a turban. She had one tooth left in sight, and as she opened her mouth to speak, it looked more like the fang of a serpent, than the tooth of a human. Her tall, long form was wrapped or tied up in the worn-out and cast off finery of some one who had perhaps flaunted in high life-it was the ragged remains of a satin dress.-But it was too short below to suit any one but a bloomer, and as the she Ethiopian disdained the use of trowserlets, her huge pedal extremities loomed out darkly below. 
               "How is you an' de baby, Missis Owens' dis mornin'?" she asked, as she came in. 
               "The baby is awful bad, aunt Harriet-I'm afraid it'll die!" replied the woman. 
               "I done told you that a week ago!" said the negress. "But I jist stopped in to see how you was, an' tell you bout my dream last night. Eider me or some oder 'oman is gwain to hab a big prise in de lottery. I dreamed I'd been and buyed a ticket, and it was 37-21-73-and jist as I got it I seed lots of gold, and then I thought a white 'oman grabbed it from me. But dat don't signify. I'm gwain to go and raise suthin on my ole stan' by, dis 'ere, and buy me a ticket!" 
               As she spoke of her "stand by," she showed the hilt of a silver mounted dagger, an old weapon which looked as if it might be a dangerous thing in her bony hands. 
               "Come don't be downcast, 
                     Misssis
                     Missis
                   Owen's 'bout de baby, what must be will be, dat's all. Here, Ise got a drop of gin left in my bottle-take a little, it'll do your stummik good!" 
               Eagerly the white woman seized the bottle which the other extended to her, and never drew breath till she had drained its last drop. 
               "It's good-you're good aunt Harriet!" she said. 
               "Oh dat's nothin'. Many is de time you has shared with me-but I must go and put up my stan' by, and buy me dat ticket!" 
               When the negress left, the woman looked at the dime which the physician had given her. Then she muttered: 
               "That was a strange dream-a white woman got her ticket and prize-the numbers were 37-21-73! old black Joe sells tickets-I'll stop in as I go to the drug shop and look if I can't see that number?" 
               The poor child seemed to be almost able to fathom its parent's thoughts, for it moaned: 
               "I'm so hungry, mother!" 
               The woman passed out, saying-"mother will 
                     be be
                     be
                   back in a minute to Johnny!-Don't cry!" 
               Within a minute she stood in a low cellar, in which about a dozen negroes were playing cards. Behind a rude counter stood a fat old negro, whose business seemed to be to dispense gin, tobacco, and some few filthy looking eatables, which was on a rough plank or shelf at his back. 
               "Have you got any tickets left, Mister Joe?" asked the woman in a whisper. 
               "Jis' one-all de rest done gone!" 
               "Let me see it-how much is it?" 
               "Seein' dat it's de last ob de package, and dat you's been a good customer, Missis, you may have dis one for a shillin'!" 
               As he showed her the ticket, she gasped for breath. There-there before her were the numbers-"37-21-73." 
               "Won't you trust me the two cents till night-I've only got a dime this morning," said the woman, trembling in every limb-"please do, I'll pay you sure!" 
               "Why you see, Missis, you hab been a good customer, but I nebber likes to trust!" 
               "Only this once-I'll pay you ten cents for the two, if you'll trust me till night!" 
               "Well, on dat terms, I'll let you hab de ticket. Gib me de dime-you look kinder sick; here, take a glass o' gin; I don't of 'n stand treat, but you's been a good customer, an' I'll do it for luck!" 
                
               The woman swallowed every drop of the full glass of liquid poison which he poured out, and clutching both ticket and prescription in her hand, staggered out of the den. But her steps were not toward the drug store. Her heart was not listening to the moans of her dying child-it was on fire, not with liquor but with the ignus fatuus light of hope-hope to win a prize. Oh, what a cursed feeling must that be which can freeze the milk in a mother's breast! 
               When she got back, poor Johnny did not complain of hunger. His thin cheeks were flushed with fever when she went out, but ashy pale now. His lips were blue and were drawn up, as if he was trying to suck in more breath. He did not speak, but his large eyes seemed brighter than ever 
                     and and
                     and
                   he looked so earnestly at her, that the mother was terrified, even half intoxicated as she was. She knew a change was coming over him-what, she could not tell. 
               "What is the matter, my child?" she gasped. 
               "Johnny's cold!" said the boy, so low she could hardly hear him. 
               She snatched the shawl from her shoulders and threw it over him. "There, that'll warm. Johnny,"-she said "the drawing will come by four o'clock, and Johnny shall have something to eat and to make him well." 
               The boy shivered-its eyes became more dull, but it did not speak. The mother began to realize its situation. It was dying. Horrible-horrible-there in cold and filth! She rushed out to get the same policeman to go after the doctor who had before done so. He came-glanced at the child, then asked: 
               "Did you give it the medicine?" 
               "No-no!" sobbed the woman. "I spent the money." 
               "Yes, for gin; I smell the cursed stuff from your breath!" 
               "No-oh no-it was for a ticket. It will draw a prize at four o'clock." 
               "A prize in perdition-look woman, your child is dying!" 
               He spoke the truth. The wretched little thing made a feeble effort to stretch cut its thin arms toward its mother, opened wide its blue lips, gasped once or twice-its eye glazed-and all was over. It had passed away from a cruelly cold world, had died of want in a Christian city, and the Policy dealers had got the last dime which charity had contributed to its aid. 
               The miserable mother with a wild shriek threw herself upon the body of her child, and fainted. Too late-yet still the undying love which a mother has for her offspring came upon her. 
               The policeman before alluded to, looked in at the door. "Hand her this, when she comes too-the city will bury the child!" said the doctor, wiping a tear from his eye with one hand, while he extended a golden eagle to the officer. Then, without looking back, he hurried away. 
               Now we'll go back a little. When the hideous old negress left Mrs. Owens, after relating her dream, did she go to pawn her dirk, as she said she would? No-she hastened to a room back of old Joe's, where, on a signal given, he joined her. 
               "I guess she'll be here 'fore soon!" she said with a chuckle; "I know'd that are doctor done left her suthin' to get medicine wid, and so I done told her a dream. She'll be here-don't forget de numbers-dey was 37-21-73." 
               "All right, ole gal-you're one ob 'em sure as de debbil's white. Shan't I bring you in a glass o' gin?" 
               "Wid a little sugar in it, if you please, Mista Joe?" 
               "Got dat same ole sweet toof yet, eh aunt Harriet. Well, as you haven't but one left, you ought to nuss it!" 
               Reader, in the above characters you behold two of the real agents of the wealthy Lottery dealers who pass along in your midst, garbed like gentlemen, and as Johnston says at Burton's, "treated as sich, with a high wallyation." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               ANOTHER SCENE.-Do you observe that grey-haired old man entering the broker's office at the corner of Broadway and - street? See by the erect gait, the neat but old fashioned cut of his suit of black, his neatly polished square-toed boots, his hat broader in the brim than fashion demands, his cravat as spotlessly white as his shirt collar, his hair worn long and carefully combed back, and his ivory headed bamboo cane, that he is a "gentleman of the old school." He is, the father of a gifted and honored family, some of whom in public service have won enviable distinction-he is a grandfather too. He has held high and responsible offices, is a man of honor, of science, universally respected for both his heart and mind, as well known in Europe almost as he is in America. We cannot for a moment suppose that a man of his mind and attainments could be so infatuated as to believe the false lights held out by the shark-like lottery dealers, to be the true beacons of fortune. Yet one thing seems rather singular-it is that though the gentleman alluded to has drawn large salaries, and inherited a fine fortune, he has for years been poor, and barely able to keep up the neat and respectable appearance which we have described. 
               But to the scene with which we opened this chapter, and excuse the digression. Twice or more did the old gentleman pass the door of the Exchange office which stands at the corner of Broadway and - street and nervously look to see that there were no customers within. What could he, such a well known and respectable citizen, fear from the world's observation. Surely he could not do wrong to enter an "Exchange office!" He sees at last that the coast is clear, enters and with a hasty step darts behind a green venetian screen which conceals persons in the back part of the office from those who enter the front. 
               A sleek, jewelled, well-dressed middle-aged gentleman at once attends his orders; 
               "Good morning Mr. M." he says-"a lovely day for the promenade-fine, very!" 
               "Yes Sir-the day is charming-I hope your health is in as good condition!" replies the old gentleman with slow and dignified tones. Then taking a large old-fashioned leathern pocket-book from an inside breast pocket-he took from it some papers, then laying them down, he took from another pocket his spectacle case and adjusting the eye-assistants upon his Roman nose, carefully examined the aforesaid papers. 
               "Mr. Greenly will you permit me to trouble you for a glance at the drawing which came on last evening?" 
               "Certainly Mr. M. here it is and the 'scheme' for to day-a splendid chance, one prize of $40,000-one of $20,000-three of $10,000-and lots of little fish!" 
               The old gentleman carefully looked over the drawn numbers of the day before, examined his tickets one by one and with a sigh laid them down again. 
               "All blank-all blank!" he said in a low sad tone, and shook his head, with another sigh. 
               "Better luck to-day, you drew a prize but a few weeks ago, Mr. M." said the polite exchange brother. 
               "True-true!" but Mr. Greenly I have in my time drawn nine hundred blanks where I have drawn one prize. I never drew but one large prize, it was my first, I wish to God it had been my last!" 
               "Ah my dear Sir, you blaspheme our good queen Fortune, if you talk that way she will never smile on you again-come try your luck to day-here is an unopened package-only twenty dollars!" 
               "Twenty dollars-muttered the old gentleman to himself. Hettie entrusted me with ten dollars to buy her a pair of satin slippers, gloves, and a laced handkerchief, she is to go to a party at the Gaylord's to-night-an old family-'twill not do to spend her money, but the drawing comes at four-I can stay till then, I can surely draw back the twenty from a whole package and then there's the chance for the capital prize-I'll do it, yes I'll do it!" 
               "Have you decided Mr. M. or shall I return the package to the drawer?" 
               "No, Mr. Greenly-I'll take them-I'll try the fickle goddess once more-there is the money in gold Sir-very acceptable currency, is it not!" 
               "Quite - always at par, sometimes above it!" 
               The package was opened, the old gentleman with a nervous hand counted the tickets and deposited them carefully in the old leathern pocket-book. Then, removing his spectacles and replacing them with the book in the proper place he buttoned his coat and bowing low to the lottery - I beg his pardon, I mean the Exchange dealer, he hurriedly made his exit, first glancing around the corner of the screen to see if any one was near who knew him. 
               We will now change the scene. It is night. In a neat, but rather plainly furnished parlor we behold seated several ladies. One a grey-haired matron, another from her features evidently a daughter and yet a mother, for on her knee sits a lovely boy of about four or five who is patting her cheek with his chubby hands. She toys with his flaxen curls and gazes fondly down upon his fair brow, his peach-blossom cheeks, his ocean-blue eyes, which shine as if they were set in a diamond back-ground. The other occupant is a fair - yes, a lovely young girl, 18 or thereabouts, a blonde, of medium height, full proportioned, hair brown as a nut, glossy as the skin of a fawn, curling short about a snow white-neck which would have won the love of a sculptor. But I must hold my horses-they're running me into a description and you know I hate descriptions. 
               "I do wonder why Pa stays so late!" said the young lady-her lips pouting out like the crease in a ripe nectarine which has burst from over-fulness. "Ah, there is his step!" and her red lips closed like the leaves of a flower upon the first breath of the evening dew. 
               A gentleman entered-it was Mr. M. the same whom we met at the "Exchange" broker's office in the morning. 
               "Dear Pa!" exclaimed the young lady springing to meet him and casting her white, full, round arms around his neck (how I'd like to be garoted with such a pair of arms), "Dear Pa -" (a kiss impressed here from those luscious lips) "have you brought my slippers, and my gloves, and my handkerchief - oh I've been waiting so long-I shall be late to the party-I've had the hackman waiting for more than an hour and-oh my I'm out of breath-sit down Pa, let me take your hat and cane!" 
               "Can you not wear your other gloves and use your last pair of slippers Hettie?" said the father gloomily as he sat down. 
               "To go to the Gaylord's Pa? Why they stand at the head of the bon ton! Oh never-never-surely you couldn't have forgotten the things when I wrote the memorandum down for you?" 
               Tears now glistened in the eyes of the beauty, and those lips quivered while her bosom throbbed like a lily-laden lake when the storm is rising. 
               "No, Hettie, my sweet child," said the old man mournfully, without raising his eyes to meet hers-I did not forget it." His voice faltered as he continued-"you know I am involved in several petty debts, I was met this morning by a creditor, who threatened to sue me if I did not pay him-I knew he would for he was heartless, to save the disgrace of a suit I used your money, but I'll return it again." 
               The young girl sighed-the money was the last that she had left out of a draft sent to her by a beloved brother an officer in the army who was serving on the western frontiers, but she arose from the seat which she had pettishly taken a moment before and went to her father, pushed back the grey hair from his noble brow and fondly kissed him on the forehead. 
               "It is no matter, dear Pa," she said-"I'll stay at home and sing to you-I expect it would be crowded and hot at the Gaylord's at any rate!" 
               Oh woman-what an angel you are till man spoils you. 
               That night the recording angel made too long black marks against Moses Greenly the Exchange, alias lottery dealer-one for causing a once honorable, veracious and high-minded man to lie to his own child-the other for bringing a cloud ever the dream-sky of a pure, warm joyous young heart, drawing drops of the heart-storms rain from Hettie's blue eyes. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               IN each chapter, so far, we have brought new characters before the reader, and we must do so until all our dramatis person are introduced to their very numerous acquaintances. 
               The next scene we will lay in the front attic bed-room of a boarding house in Murray street, not quite a dozen squares from Broadway. The room is fitted up as well as the landlady can afford. She only charges six dollars per week for the board of its two occupants, allowing them the use of her parlor to receive company in. This is very reasonable, and it ought to be, for they are two desolate old maids, and that isn't their fault. Were they old bachelors, I would'nt blame her if she skinned their very eye-teeth. 
               One of these maiden ladies-Miss Aramintha Peony, the elder, is in the room. She acknowledges to being thirty she did so ten years ago-but she has never gone beyond it-probably she never will, although Mrs. Bonnifess the landlady says, judging from her appetite, that she'll live a very long time. Her cheeks, thanks be to Gouraud, present a very healthy appearance-her hair is very thick, curls, and is glossy and soft as that of a country belle who bathes hers in the morning dew. It would be wrong to say that the celebrated Ciprico had anything to do in furnishing the roof of the upper story of the tenement which we are describing so we are mum on that point. Her teeth are white as pearls, and regular as a christians daily walk. Castle, the great dentist, has seen and admired them. The lady was so elated at his admiration that she actually presented him with fifty dollars as a testimonial of her appreciation of his judgment. Some envious woman went so far as to insinuate that she had seen the teeth before-but we don't believe they are anything but natural. 
               Around the room on nails ruthlessly driven into the plastered wall, hung many dresses-silks, satin and calico-of various cut and style, some of them more gaudy than true taste would justify, some of them sufficiently expensive to infer that the strings of a long purse had been drawn to effect the purchase. This, in comparison with the apparent scantiness of means which would induce ladies to lodge in an attic, seemed rather singular, but "singularities are" anything but singular now-a-days. 
               A very small stove which would not hold more than a double hand-full of coal, warmed, or was intended to warm the room, and close up by it engaged in sewing up a rip in a tight gaiter-boot, sat the lady. Often she paused in her work and intently listened as if she expected some one. 
               "I do wonder why Malvina Ann stays so long!" she said, impatiently. "The drawing must have come-if we don't get a prize this time, we'll be bothered dreadfully till we get our money next quarter-that is three weeks off yet. I can't do three weeks without money-we must have a little just to keep up appearances-Malvina must, for that Mr. Townsend is worth catching, and he seems particularly smitten with her! Ah, that's her step, I'm sure it is-I hear it on the stairs, and she's singing; oh, I know we've drawn a prize!" 
               The door opened and Miss Malvina Ann. the youngest Miss Peony, entered the room. Snatching off her bonnet she threw it on the low, narrow bed which stood in one corner of the room, and out of breath from hurrying up stairs and singing, sat down beside her sister. 
               "Well-the prize?" asked the latter. 
               "Oh let me get breath!" cried Malvina-"then I'll tell you-luck has changed, we'll soon be up again!" 
               While she draws breath we'll glance at Malvina. She is five years younger than Aramintha-and looks ten, at least. She would pass in a crowd for 28 or 30. She too is much indebted to Gouraud and other beautifying benefactors for her juvenility, but it is ungallant in me to expose these matters. I'll shorten sail and heave too. 
               "The prize-dear Malvina Ann, the prize! How much is it,-ten thousand?" asked Aramintha. 
               "Oh no, sister, our luck has changed-you know we haven't drawn a prize since we drew the last quarter's fund of our annuity, before this one!" 
               "That is true, and we have spent our last money for this chance and can draw no more for three weeks yet-but the prize-how much is it?" 
               "Only eleven dollars, percentage off, Aramintha, and it was so little, we only had one number or an eighth, you see, that I thought we'd better risk all, so I've bought more tickets with it. That dear nice man, Mr. Greenly, says he's sure we'll hit the mark next time!" 
               "Oh, how provoking, Malvina. Here I am, obliged to mend my own gaiters-I needed a new pair-you ought to have consulted me before you bought again!" 
               "But, sister, I felt so sure that when our luck once changed we would win a big prize. So I sacrificed this trifle. Don't blame me-I am playing for a large stake-Mr. Townsend thinks I am rich, he does not dream that we lodge in an attic, he thinks because we dress well that we are better off than we are-I must keep it up; to do so must have money. He is rich; once won, I can make it all right for us both through life!" 
               "Sister," said Aramintha, "you are right. I was annoyed and impatient-I am tired of living in such a way as we are. I hope tomorrow's drawing will verify your prophecy of good luck!" 
               "I feel sure it will-but there's the tea bell, let's fix up and go down-by the way, I saw Wheeler to-day." 
               "Wheeler? oh, what did he say? He sent his love to me, of course?" 
               "No, sister!" 
               "Then what did he say? come, don't keep me in suspense, you know he loves me, he said so the last time we met. What did he say?" 
               "He asked me if I liked grapes-I said yes! "There are some fine ones at Taylor's," he added. "I've just eat two bunches!" 
               "And he didn't ask you to take any, nor send me even a single bunch?" 
               "No, sister!" 
               "Then he's a brute-I'll discard him if-if he ever comes to see me again. Oh, these men, these men! They're all brutes!" 
               "Except my Townsend!" 
               "Maybe he'll be like the rest!" 
               "I don't think so, sister Aramintha, but let's go to tea-Mrs. Bonnifess hates to have to wait for her boarders when the victuals are hot!" 
               Reader, those two old maids, whom on most sunny afternoons you can see, dressed alike always, promenading Broadway, live on an annuity of six hundred dollars per year, more than a third of which they spend with the lottery dealers. They deny themselves comforts, live in unhealthy quarters, and manuvre in every way to keep up appearances, while they watch and hope for the prize they never get. They are among the "victims" on a small scale. We will again drop our curtain and change for the next act. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               WE have seen Mr. Brent and his son-in-law at home in their respective residences, and we will now take a look at them in their counting room. It is near three, and their closing hour approaches, for in our wholesale houses little business is done after banking hours are over. Charles is closing his cash account for the day, and with a self-satisfied air Mr. Brent is pacing to and fro over the carpeted room. He looks as if he felt pleased with the operations of the day. 
               Outside, the porter and two or three salesmen are busy arranging the store and ware-room for closing. 
               "You and Mary were at the opera, last night, you told me this morning, did you not, Charley?" asked Mr. Brent, after Brennon closed his cash book and ledger, and locked them in the safe. 
               "Yes, father-Mary is so fond of music, and I wish to do all I can to make her happy!" 
               "You are a kind, good husband, Charley! You were at the theatre the night before, were you not?" 
               "Yes father-we were at Burton's!" 
               "These evening trips over to town must be very expensive, Charles, considering carriage hire, tickets, et cetera, eh?" 
               "Rather, father, but Mary is fond of amusement, and I fear she'll get lonesome, it is so recently that she has left home, you know!" 
               "Poh, boy, she can never get lonesome in your little box of a cottage. I got her one of Chickering's best planes, and well she knows how to use it. I'd rather hear her sing one of those sweet English ballads than to listen to a thousand of your Italian operatic schreechendoes. She has a fine guitar, and with you by her side, and books and music, she can never be lonesome!" 
               "We are very happy, father!" 
               "I don't doubt it, my boy, and I hope you'll always be so-but I like to see married folks look for happiness at home rather than abroad. And Charley, I don't want to see you let your expenses go ahead of your salary, or scrimp you in your enjoyment at home. You have enough to live comfortably on, but six or eight dollars a night on carriage hire and opera tickets will empty your purse, my boy-never go beyond your depth, it has ruined many a good man! But take my advice as I mean it, my son, kindly. I must go to dinner, now-it is about closing time, give my love to Mary, when you go over home; good day, my boy, good day!" 
               "I wonder if he can suspect anything?" muttered Charles, after his father-in-law-departed "He must, or he wouldn't be so special and particular in his advice. It is true that I am going beyond depth, and if my luck doesn't change, God only knows when or where I shall touch bottom. There is that two hundred dollar acceptance comes due at Hinkel's in the morning. I must borrow it from the safe, and I dare not enter it on the books, for I've already over-drawn my salary, and the old man still keeps up his habit of looking at the books at the end of every month. I believe he'd do it if he had the angel Gabriel for a bookkeeper. I'll borrow three hundred and pay off my debt, and with the balance I'll try Dame Fortune once more. My very first ticket was a prize, that was a good omen-but all since have been blank. But her wheel is ever turning, they say, it may turn me up a few thousands, and then I'll risk no more!" 
               Brennon unlocked the heavy door of the safe, and taking out a little drawer counted from a pile of bills in it, the sum he had mentioned. As he was about returning the drawer to its place he heard the door behind him open, and steps approaching. His face paled and his limbs shook with agitation He was conscious of wrong. 
               "Hallo, Mr. Brennon, busy yet? It's after three-thought I'd call in for a little chat!" 
               Brennon recognized the voice of his newfound but already quite intimate friend, Tullius Catlin. Recovering himself, he put in the drawer, and closing the door of the safe, turned to shake the extended hand of his friend. 
               "I am glad to see you," he said. "I was just thinking of you and that acceptance which comes due in the morning, on which you were so good as to become security. I have just taken out the money to pay it, I'll take it up early in the morning!" 
               "Oh pshaw, my boy, if it isn't the most convenient thing in the world for you, you needn't pay it now, I can make old Hink renew it or can let you have funds myself. I've just heard from my consignees in Havana. My last cargo of flour has been a great spec. I shall clear at least eight thousand dollars on it, I struck the market at the last ebb and took the first of the flood tide-got the Dons that time! There wasn't a hundred barrels in the town when my venture arrived; prices were up, and my flour sold at the highest mark!" 
               "Oh it is convenient for me to pay that little matter, and I'm glad to hear of your good fortune. Then let's adjourn to Delmonico's and have a bite and a glass of wine, I haven't dined yet." 
               "Don't you dine at home?" 
               "Yes, generally, but I'd rather take a bite over here to-day. By the way dine with me Sunday, en famille, you know, plainly, for I'm but a new house-keeper. Come say yes, I shall be happy to introduce you to my young bride, the best and prettiest wife in Brooklyn! you'll come?" 
               "It will indeed afford me pleasure, but today you must excuse me, I've already dined. At the unfashionable hour of one, I acknowledge, but it was with an old friend, a plain countryfied sort of a man, but he has two pretty daughters, and is able to give them twenty or thirty thousand a piece when they marry!" 
               "Ha-ha-good excuse! I suppose the daughters were brought in like rare fruit, with the dessert!" 
               "On the contrary, they came in with the solids, that is with the old gentleman and his wife, whose united weight can't be less than six hundred!" 
               "Six hundred!-They must be good livers-you've dined well!" 
               "Not overly and above-the mutton was under-done, the beef roasted till the juices were dry, soup and fish were dispensed with, and there was no oil for the salad!" 
               "Oh the heathen! You must come and top off with me at Delmonico's. We'll take a bottle of his anti-Jersey Heidsick, or some of Longworth's Catawba and a few birds-his cook does up 
                     patridge
                     partridge
                   in toast superbly. Come, I'll take no refusal my dear fellow!" 
               "Well, Brennon you're so pressing that 'tis hard to resist!" 
               "By the way Catlin, isn't Hinkel open yet?" 
               "Yes, I expect so, those up-town exchange men seldom close before dark-they who are in the wheel-of-fortune line, make a good deal I'm told, out of mechanics and laborers who stop in and buy tickets as they go home from their work!" 
               "Well, let's go up there a few minutes-I want to have my mind at rest and pay him the money I borrowed!" 
               "Poh, don't trouble yourself about such a little matter this evening. I wouldn't have let you borrowed from him, only I had just made a heavy advance on a speculation which will net me at least one hundred per cent!" 
               "So you said, but all's right. I expect the old man will soon make me a partner, and then I'll not have to depend on the beggarly salary of two thousand a year!" 
               Catlin smiled. There was meaning in his smile. He remembered the glance which he had bestowed on the contents of the safe but a few moments before, and he knew that Brennon had taken money from it which did not belong to him. As the devil laughs when a fresh soul is snared in his net, so did the arch-villain exult over the victim whom he was drawing on to ruin. 
               "Come-I'll direct the boys to shut up the store and we'll have a little fun this evening!" continued Brennon-"and remember you must dine at my house on Sunday-we dine at four, recollect. You have my address." 
               The two young men sallied forth and we'll let them go, and pay a visit on our own account to two more of the actors in our life-drama. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               IN the third story of a brick house, one of the class commonly called "tenant houses," where rooms are rented to families, in a little back room, sat an elderly lady and a younger one. The youngest might be eighteen or thereabouts, and she was very beautiful. Her hair was dark and glossy, her eyes of an ocean blue, her Grecian features regular as a picture, and one of the most sweetly formed mouths that ever tempted a poor mortal into the "subjective mood, to kiss." In figure, rather tall, not full, but elegantly proportioned, lithe and graceful as the willow which sways to the breeze over the flower-fringed brook. In very truth, a lovelier girl than Constance Morley could not be found in all Gotham. Her cheeks were rather pale, and her long dark eyelashes, as her eyes were cast down toward the sewing-work in her lap, cast their shadows on them, but the skin was transparent as wax. Her brow was high, her whole cast of countenance betokened intellect and refinement. The manner and appearance of her mother, for such was the relationship of the elder lady, betokened the finished and well-bred lady. But the scanty, yet neat furniture of the room, betokened poverty.-The little cooking stove in the room, the bed in one corner with its snow-white counterpane, the wash tub in another corner and some few articles of clothing, hung near the stove to dry, all gave evident token that this was their only room and that they did their own house-work. Both the ladies were dressed in deep mourning, in cheap stuff, but their apparel was so neatly made up and so well suited to their fine figures that it did not look common. 
               
                  True gentility will always discover itself, no matter how it is garbed. You cannot make a gentleman of a clod-hopper, no more than you can make a kid glove out of cow-hide, nor can you by any change of circumstances make a gentleman by birth and education forget his position and acquirements. 
               The ladies were engaged in sewing, making up clothing for some of the down-town stores. They both looked weary, the elder more especially. 
               "I wish we were both dead, Constance!" she said fretfully, "It is killing me to think that you who was born to wealth, reared in the best of society, should be wasting the flower of your days here at low labor, when your inferiors are enjoying the world." 
               "You forget yourself, dear mother-you have passed a whole life-time in ease and affluence, it is but a little over a year since we were left poor and desolate, since my poor father driven to desperation-" 
               "Child, child don't speak of him! I cannot bear to think of him-I see even in waking dreams his ghastly corse before me! Oh they said he killed himself, but it was the accursed lottery dealers that did it! But let us not think of it now-sing to me love, sing and try to drive these crushing thoughts from my heart!" 
               "I will dear mother, I will sing you the song I composed last night. It is but a poor production, but it has one merit which many a prettier song never had, it came from the heart of its author!" 
               In a voice low as the coo of a ring-dove when its mate is near, but clear as the lark when having drank of the morning dew it rises heavenward to sing its matin hymn of praise to HIM who will not let a sparrow fall to the ground "unheeded," she sang these words. 
               
                   
                     Cheer up, my DEAR mother, oh cheer up I pray, 
                     The clouds which surround us will soon pass away, 
                     The sunshine will glow 
                     And fresh flowers grow 
                     Where the woe-storm hath beat so dark and so fast; 
                     Oh, cheer up my mother, our night will not last. 
                  
                   
                     Repine not my mother, we've a FATHER above, 
                     The orphan and widow HE shields with his love, 
                     In HIM let us trust, 
                     He's gracious and just! 
                     Oh cheer up my mother and banish your fears, 
                     The Sun of the future will dry up your tears. 
                  
                   
                     Then the past we'll forget, the present enjoy, 
                     A pleasure that contrast will free from alloy, 
                     The trouble that's o'er. 
                     Can harm us no more, 
                     Then cheer up dear mother, the clouds break away, 
                     Oh cheer up and welcome the dawn of our day! 
                  
                
               "Oh how I wish a glimpse of prosperity's day would come!" sighed the elder. 
               "It will, dear mother, I feel a presentiment that some good fortune is in store for us: yes, and near at hand!" 
               "Heaven grant it be so, for much we need it!" sighed the mother. 
               A knock at the door startled them. Constance rose to open it and as we might in- trude, we'll leave them to receive their visitor or visiters whoever they may be. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               MUSIC-a jolly time, for music is cheap in Gotham, as Uncle Tommy the French captain says of that which he has in his new Laager beer saloon in Philadelphia. The music which we hear is the sharp crack of champagne corks, the brook-like gurgle of generous wine, which like mountain torrents dashing down dark ravines after a shower, is destined to pass down gullies, or gullets which like the said ravines are always dry except when the cork from above is drawn out. Merry laughter too is heard-music ever sweet to the ear of all, except such as have a bosom full of the sour milk of human un-kindness. 
               The band from which this music proceeds, is a very "select companie," who are seated at a long table which has usurped the place of the centre table in Mr. Grab's office. The chief of the lottery dealers is seated at the head of the table, on his right sits Mr. Tullius Catlin, on his left, Mr. Vandersplyken, a gentleman whom we have not yet introduced, but must now, for he is a prominent member of the confederacy and does the largest business up town of any dealer in the crowd. He is a singular looking genius-somewhat resembles a pumpkin with a large wart on the top of it for a head and two very sharp sticks in the bottom for legs. In other words, he is like one of Reynold's stories, full as broad as he is long. His circumference is about five feet, from that infer his height. His head is very small, his face red as a scarlet cabbage, and not unlike it in rotundity and general appearance. A little baby of a nose seems to be trying to look out from between his fat cheeks, and a pair of sharp, twinkling grey eyes peer out from above like glow-worms stuck in the said cabbage in the night-time. He wears a bright red waistcoat which does not make him look any paler. A huge standing collar is supported by a yellow cravat-his blue swallow-tailed coat is ornamented with brass buttons as large as doubloons, and on his fat fingers he wears rings enough to stock a Chathain St. jewelry store. He also wears a gold watch chain which looks strong enough to hang him with. 
               The rest of the company consisted of Mr. Grab's clerks and office agents and a few of the "exchange brokers" of the city, among whom our friends Hoag, Hinkel, and Greenley occupied prominent places. The eatables had been removed from the supper table and the wine and cigars alone remained to cap off the festivity. At the moment when I choose to decoy the reader invisibly into such questionable society, Mr. Catlin arose to give a sentiment in obedience to the request of Mr. Grab, who having just been toasted had responded in a neat speech. 
               "I give you," said Mr. Catlin, bowing low toward the gentleman whom he named-"I give you the health of Mr. Vandersplyken, one of the most active and successful members of our noble fraternity!" 
               "Mr. Vandersplyken's good health!" cried the party clinking glasses the contents of which in a moment were "dumped" where many a load had gone before. 
               Mr. V.'s face grew darker in its purple glory, beautifully red like a bloody beef steak, as the butchers say. He arose, and slapping his hand emphatically upon his protuberant stomach, he said: 
               "Mr. Gatlin in barticular, and yentlemens in yeneral, from der pottom of mine heart I danks you! You makes me brouder as a turkey cobbler. I gant spheek goot in English, but by ter cots of war when it comes to der pusiness, den I spheeks petter as any poddy. If you did understand de Dietcher, which was mine fadder tongue und mine mudder tongue de same, den I would make you a hell of a spheech! Dunder and blitzen, I would make you dink dat der duyvel was among you! Dere is no such tongue in der worldt as der Dietcher for spheekin' in pooblic. Yentilmens in yeneral, and Mr. Gatlin in barticular I danks you once more agin from der pottom of mine heart!'! 
               As he closed, Mr. Vandersplyken gave another tremendous thump upon his stomach. Whether 
                     he he
                     he
                   meant that his heart lay in those regions or not, is a matter of doubt-the reader may settle it as it best suits her or him. 
               Mr. Vandersplyken having seated himself was entitled to the call for the next toast. He looked around and his eye fell on Mr. Hoag. Mr. Hoag was a jolly son of Erin and looked it, although he dressed genteely and looked like a sharp business man. When Mr. V. called upon him, Mr. H. arose, and in a rich, mellow brogue replied: 
               "Mister Vandersplyken, it's in a quan-dary you've placed me, for divil the idea of a toast is there in the thick head of me. But rather than make ye onasy I'll give ye an ould favorite o' mine. Here's luck to our side and may ould Satan fly away wid them that don't like us!" 
               The toast of Mr. Hoag was drank with great applause, and he in turn called for a sentiment from Messieur Frondin. At the mention of this name a very small gentleman rose from under a huge head of hair and whiskers, and in a shrill voice responded: 
               "Shentilmens, et mon cher freres! ze same excuse vich my friend Messieur Vandersplyken 'ave present to you, I must offare, zat ze Anglais is not ze language of my muzzare nor my fadare, and zey did not teesh me to onnerstan, it at all! Zerefore I sall be ver', vat you call him-sacre I forget-I shall say ver' leetle words next to nossin' at all. In my own language to my countrymen, I can sell ze teekets like ze telegraph, ver fast, but in Anglais-mauvais! it is ver much trouble. But I shall learn him some time. Shentilmens, I shall propose to you for ze toast-Amerique, zat grandleetle republique zat'ave shust begin for to dev-el-ope itself!" 
               "America, that great little republic which has just began to devil-up itself!" echoed Catlin, followed by the others. 
               "No, shentilmens, you make meestake! I mean devel-ope itself-I mean zat like ze man it begin to show zat it is no longere a boy!" 
               "Yes, we comprehend: all right!" said Mr. Grab. 
               Reader we'll drop the curtain for a change of scene. I only introduced this chapter to show you how jollily our lottery dealers can pass their leisure hours-how little they think of the orphans and widows ruined by their deeds-how little remorse they feel, how seldom they think of the victims whom they have, like Barnegat wreckers, lured on to wreck and ruin by holding out their false lights. They are as devoid of conscience as a rock is of vitality. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               IT was evening; a few days later than the time when we last met Charles Brennon in these chapters. He was seated close by the side of his lovely young wife. She had been singing. Her guitar was in her hands still. But she looked sad. Could it be possible that the clouds of unhappiness had already cast a shadow on a path where youth's spring-flowers alone had grown? 
               "I do not like that Mr. Catlin who dined with us to-day, Charles. Where did you form his acquaintance," she said. 
               "Oh here in the city, in business-he is from the South, rich as Crsus and a great speculator." 
               "I do not like him Charles. He looked at me at the table as if he would see through me-his eyes burned with a licentious glare, I felt as if a serpent had fixed its eye upon me. I could not but meet his gaze and yet an inward dread forbade me. Do not bring that man here any more Charles. Something tells me that we both should avoid him!" 
               "Oh nonsense, my Mary, he is a particular friend, has I may say been a kind friend to me!" 
               "Charles, you do not need any 'friends' but father and me-confide in no others, for friendship in name and deceit in fact are but too often allied!" 
               "But Mr. Catlin is a gentleman, a man of honor!" 
               "If you trust too much in his honor, dear husband, you may rue the day you ever met him. Do not be angry with me, but I do not often mistake men. You are warmhearted, of a noble and generous nature, but too confiding. A specious and plausible villain might deceive you with your eyes open!" 
               "Pshaw, Mary, my love, I'm not a tyro in the worlds' ways-Catlin is not the man you take him to be." 
               "For your sake I hope not, my love. But I dislike, yes I fear him!" 
               "Well, let's say no more about him, I'll not invite him here again, dearest." 
               "You have done so already and I know he'll come Charles. When you shook hands at parting, you asked him to come often to see us. He said he 
                     woule
                     would
                   be happy to do so and as he spoke his basilisk eye was fixed on mine. I trembled, I know not why!-Charles, I repeat it, I fear that man!" 
               "Without cause, my Mary. No one dare or can harm you you know. Am I not your protector. The man who would insult you, by even a look, should perish! But let us talk of something more pleasant. Where shall we go to-morrow evening, my love, for amusements?" 
               "Let us stay at home. I have two or three new songs that I have been practising, which you have never heard. I will sing them for you!" 
               "Had you not rather go to the opera?" 
               "It is too expensive, Charles. Father thinks we are too extravagant. You know his strict ideas of economy. I am your wife, but not the less am I his daughter. I wish always, while I faithfully fulfil my duty as a fond and obedient wife, to please him and make him happy. He has ever been a good, kind and indulgent father-he has done all that a parent could do for me, it is but just that I should make him some return now, when the hand of time is writing wrinkles on his brow and scattering hoar-frost upon his head!" 
               "You are right, my angel, you are right. Oh Mary were I but so perfect as you are, I would be worthy of you!" 
               "Dear Charles you are worthy of me, you are good and kind, you are only too generous, too open-hearted! You confide too much in those whom you meet. Learn to believe that the world is like a forest-the fairest flowers which grow there are poisonous. The noblest looking trees are apt to be rotten in the heart-often the most solid are those which are crooked and gnarled!" 
               "You speak like a philosopher my dear, and I will profit 
                     hy
                     by
                   your teaching. But one more song my dear Mary and then we will retire." 
               She obeyed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               MORE characters! "Why in the name of gracious goodness do you bring more folks in?" asks the impatient reader. "Haven't you got enough actors upon the stage now?" In reply, and upon mature consideration. as Manager Burton says, permit me to remark in the language of Shakspeare, and without the most remote intention of giving offence, I haven't by a jug-full. This is not going to be a blood-and-thunder pop-gun of a novel, made to order, 100 pages, neither more or less, to sell for two York shillings, a baby of a book that can hardly crawl into the public affections; it is to be a man of a work, over 200 pages and worth every continental copper that is demanded for it. It is to be picter-esked, illustrated in a style that will make the immortal Barnum weep tears of envy. Artists of the first talent and the best engravers in America are engaged, "regardless of expense," or as Nicodemus Dewalbutlittle said to his intended when he was courting her, "Sally, let's go and have a glass of ice cream together, (he meant two spoons in one glass, of course,) and so we'll do as good wives do, old-stockin'ise the expense." You see she belonged to the church, and he didn't dare to say darn'
                
               But to our new characters. We'll take a look at them through our "mind's eye." 
               We must get you to go to Boston, for there our scene for this act lays, though the chief and only villain in the lot, is a New Yorker. Though we have many of the best of GOD's creation here, yet sometimes fate wills it that black sheep shall creep into the flock of white one's. 
               We will first introduce you to two Sisters, twin in looks and disposition, as they are by birth. Their names are Eugenia and Lydia Newbury. Both blondes, sylph-like in form, hair of a light, glossy brown, curling over lily-white shoulders; cheeks which unite the lily and the rose, eyes blue as a cloudless June sky, features not Grecian, but decidedly American, behold them innocent, happy, beautiful. 
               They are the daughters of a wealthy gentleman in Newburyport, who has extensive dealings with Mr. Anthon, an extensive shipping merchant in Boston, at whose house the two sisters are staying during their temporary visit to the metropolis of the Bay State. Mr. A. as well as Mrs. Deborah, his ancient housekeeper, (for Mr. A. is yet a bachelor, he has been too busy making money to take time to court and marry) think "the world and all" of the twins, and always do everything in their power to make them happy in their frequent visits to the city. Mr. A. bought a piano for Eugenia and a guitar for Lydia, to play upon when they paid him a visit. They were both fine musicians, and, strange as it may seem, the old gentleman actually doted on music. 
               At the moment which I take the liberty of appropriating for the introduction of my fair young friends, they were alone in the snug little back parlor. All was cold and cheerless outside, for a cold North-East wind had brought in sleet and rain from the icebergs. The wind moaned outside as if it was pained because it could not break the window-pane, or find a crevice in the well. built house to enter through. But a glowing fire in the grate and the light of a glittering chandelier contrasted warmly and brightly with the outer darkness. Just so, sometimes you'll find a warm heart and a bright soul under the rough and ugly exterior of a human. All may seem cold and comfortless outside, but take a look at the heart's parlor before you judge harshly. 
               The Sisters were playing a little Spanish waltz together, Lydia accompanying the piano with her guitar. The music was simple, therefore beautiful, like true loveliness when unadorned. The twins were so engaged that they did not hear the door open, nor the soft step of Mr. Anthon, who, now that business hours were over, had returned home, divested himself of his heavy boots and overcoat, and in his slippers, (a pair which they had worked for him) and dressing gown, stole softly in to hear them play. 
               Mr. Anthon had a jolly looking face. It was rather red, perhaps the juice of old Port had something to do with that. His nose was a good-natured turn-up little thing. His eyes were very large, but they twinkled like little diamonds in a rough setting. He had not much hair, what there was had turned rather gray. He was of a portly figure, looked as if he lived well and liked to see others do so too. 
               The girls finished the waltz. 
               "I do think it is most time that our dear Mr. Anthon got home!" said Lydia. 
               "So do I," added Eugenia. 
               "Do you know, sister Lyd, I wish he was really our uncle!" 
               "Why, sister?" 
               "Because, he seems like a relation. Father and he have always been like brothers. He has known us from childhood, played with us when we were babies, been kind to us till now. We all love him-that, is like a relation, as an uncle should be loved.-Now I was thinking last night when he kissed us both, before we retired, how painful it would be if he should fall in love with either of us and want to marry us. We are 18, marriageable, Sis, and he is only 50, not an unmarriageable age, you know. Were he to propose for you or I, papa loves him so that he'd say yes right away. We think so much of him that we wouldn't know what to say, and then-" 
               "The fat would be in the fire! Ha! Ha! Ha!" roared Mr. Anthon, who could "hold in" no longer, for his face had been purpling with suppressed laughter for some time. 
               "Oh, goodness me-he heard us!" cried both the girls, springing up from their instruments and trying to make a rush for the door. But Mr. Anthon debarred their exit. 
               "Hold on girls," he cried-"the old man heard you; bless your lily-white souls! you haven't offended, you've pleased me! Come sit down before the fire and let's have a talk. You come sit close, Genia, I wont make you an offer-the truth is, (but don't tell everybody or I might get charavaried,) I have already made arrangements to take a partner to my bosom. 
               "Oh, Mr. Anthon, and when?" cried both sisters in surprise. 
               "To night-yes, this very night, and the ceremony will take place here in this room, and you shall be witnesses!" 
               "Oh, so sudden-and we have no dresses fit for a wedding!" said Lydia. 
               "Poh-poh! You are dressed well enough already-you know I hate ceremony!" said the old man, with a chuckle. 
               "Will there be anybody but us and the bride and the minister here?" asked Eugenia. 
               "Oh, yes, two very good looking young men from New York-you musn't fall in love, girls, though they are young, rich, respectable and handsome!" 
               "What time is it to occur, air?" 
               "Very soon after tea, my dears-by the way, tea must be ready now!" 
               "Yes, sir, Mrs. Deborah was only waiting for you!" 
               "Well, then she shall wait no longer. Come girls, take your uncle's arm, ha! ha! I'll be an uncle, Eugenia, and when you get married I'll give you something nice to commence the world with. Come, let's go to tea!" 
               "They didn't do anything else!" We'll follow them-only to see how a bachelor keeps house. 
               Mrs. Deborah sat at the head of the table. The steam from the silver tea-urn curled gracefully around her pale but placid countenance. Her gray hair, for she is as old as Mr. Anthon, was neatly combed back and all but the front hidden under a nicely frilled cap which thirty years ago was fashionable. Her dress was plain, of a silken gray, and was fitted to her prim, I might say slim form, as neatly and closely as if it was pasted thereunto. Her large gray eyes were mild and kind in expression, and though she looked rather puritanical, there was nothing of extra austerity about Mrs. Deborah. 
               "We've kept you waiting, Mrs. Deborah, I fear!," said Mr. Anthon, as he seated himself at her right hand, after seeing the young ladies placed at the table. 
               "Nothin' to speak on, Mr. Anthon!" she replied-"I knowed your step when you opened the street door, and kalkerlated the time you'd be changing your wet clothes. So I knowed just when to set the tea a steepin', and you'll find that are short-cake done jist the way you like it!" 
               "You're a kind, good housekeeper, Mrs. Deborah-I never could do without you!" 
               "So you've said for those twenty years, Sir!" 
               "Have you told Mrs. Deborah the news, Mr. Anthon?" asked Eugenia. She did not notice his look of warning in time, nor did Lydia, who was sugaring her tea. 
               "News, la me, I ha'n't hearn no news for ever so long, what is it?" cried Mrs. Deborah. 
               "About the wedding," cried Lydia, as she buttered a nice piece of hot short-cake. 
               "A weddin'? Who on airth is agoin to make fools of themselves now. It aint nary one o' you, gals?" 
               "No, it's-" 
               "Hush, don't let her know it!" whispered Mr. Anthon to Lydia, looking another warning to Eugenia to keep silence on the subject. 
                
               "Who did you say?" asked Mrs. Deborah, who had not heard the whisper or seen the look of Mr. Anthon, being engaged in picking out a particularly sized lump of sugar for her own cup of tea, (she never took more or less.) Five cups of tea were her quantum sufficit also. 
               "Oh, that's a secret," said Lydia with a roguish smile. 
               "I never knowed no good come o' keepin' secrets! I knowed as good a gal as ever lived that died o' keepin a secret. She loved a nice feller, but she didn't like to show it, so she kept the secret. He loved, but seein' her so offish, he was afeard to tell her, and arter a while he fell in with another gal, and they kinder hitched together and he married her. That broke the poor girl's heart that kept her secret. Come, now, Miss Liddy, let's know all about it! who is agoin' to get married? Anybody I know?" 
               "Oh yes, I can't tell names, but it's one of your best friends!" 
               "One of my best friends? Why I haven't got any best friends but you gals and your father, Mr. Anthon and Deacon Grant, and he's married! Come gals, out with it.-Don't keep a body in expense, now don't ye!" 
               "Maybe, Mr. Anthon can tell you!" said Eugenia with a wicked smile as her rosy lips opened to reveal teeth white as alabaster. 
               "Not I! I never have any secrets!" said the gentleman. 
               "Except matrimonial ones!" said Lydia, with a laugh. "Come Mr. Anthon, let our good Mrs. Deborah into the secret." 
               Mrs. Deborah dropped the spoon with which she had been stirring her tea. She had adjusted her spectacles and for the time occupied by the last four or five paragraphs had watched alternately the countenance of each speaker. In an earnest tone, she asked: 
               "Gals don't tell me no story-is either of you agoin' to get married?" 
               "Not that we know of, Mrs. Deborah!" said Eugenia, who couldn't help laughing at the earnestness of the questioner 
               "Then," said Mrs. Deborah, looking at Mr. Anthon almost fiercely, "it's you! Yes, I see it all. Here I've been your housekeeper for well onto thirty years and now you'll bring a woman-a wife in the house to take my place. I'm to be like an old hoss, when I'm worked to death I'm to be turned out to die in the common!" 
               "Listen to me, Mrs. Deborah, you're wrong-" 
               "I won't hear nothin' Mr. Anthon-you're a cruel wicked man, so you are!" cried Mrs. Deborah, and putting her apron to her eyes she rushed out of the room. 
               "Well, that's rich!" said Mr. Anthon. 
               "Oh why didn't you satisfy her curiosity, she's a good creature, she ought not to be deceived!" said Eugenia. 
               "Smarter people than her have been deceived!" said Mr. A. with a chuckle-"but let us hurry through tea, I expect company up-stairs every moment." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               AT the very time when Mr. Anthon was listening to the music and remarks of the twin sisters, as described in the foregoing chapter, a young gentleman whom we will name as Mr. Augustus Vanroy, was adjusting his cravat before a mirror in a private parlor of the best hotel in Boston. He was not alone. A young and fine looking woman was there, and a sweet little curly-haired, blue-eyed baby was playing with some toys on the carpet. 
               "You must be intending to visit some very particular friend, Gus," said the female-"a lady perhaps-you're so particular in your dressing to-day!" 
               "There you are, jealous again, Laura!" 
               "No, not jealous, Gus, but you have neglected me much of late!" 
               "Well, I have told you why! You know my business here!" 
               "I know that you say it is to form a partnership with a rich shipping merchant.-Your connection with the lottery business in New York makes me doubt it. But I care not, if you refrain from forming any partnerships with my sex; that, Augustus, I will not endure. That child, our child, though it is by the world's laws illegitimate, is the offspring of our love-it is legitimately ours by the immutable laws of Heaven, and it is a guard against your wronging me! You dare not, for your soul's sake wrong me while it lives!" 
               "Laura what are you running on about? I havn't dreamed of wronging you! Do act like a sensible woman!" 
               "I will, Gustavus, till you force me to act otherwise. I was pure till you met me, I will be till you desert me, for as yet my heart does not tell me that I have done wrong, though the world may say I have erred!" 
               "Well, dear Laura, set your heart at rest-I shall never desert you! But I must hurry-my friend Dennison must not be kept waiting, he is to witness the drawing up of my partnership papers. Good bye for a little while!" 
               "Good bye-take care of yourself, Gus, and hurry home!" said the female, kissing him fondly. 
               "Papa tiss Frankey, too!" said the little thing on the floor, reaching up its chubby arms, though it did not look as if it was a year old. 
               The mother raised her child to his lips. He kissed it, sighed and left the room, the mother noted the sigh. 
               "There must be something wrong-he is deceiving me!" she murmured. "I will watch, and oh, if he wrongs me and my poor child, terrible shall be my vengeance. I have risked all, left every friend on earth for him-he dare not desert me now for another!" 
               Poor woman! How little she knew that passion often blinds a man to the past as well as to the future-ices the heart that 'erst was hot as "the lava flood which burns in Etna's breast of flame-veils honor, breaks vows, and dares all danger in its headlong course. 
               When Augustus Vanroy left the room occupied by himself and his mistress, he hurried down into the reading room, where he joined a fine looking and fashionably dressed young man, one with a far more noble and manly appearance than himself. 
               "Have I kept you waiting long, dear Dennison?" he asked, as his extended hand was grasped by the other and warmly shaken. 
               "No, only a few moments, but you are dressed as if you were going to a party, instead of to a merchant's house to sign partnership papers and do business." 
               "I'll tell you the reason. Old Anthon hinted to me that he had two fair visitors at his house, daughters of a wealthy friend in Newburyport, and I didn't know but the good old oddity might take it into his head to introduce us, so I wanted to do as I always do, put my best foot foremost when I go into ladies society." 
               "You might at least have informed me, that I might have dressed also." 
               "Pshaw! you're always well dressed, my boy, and twice as attractive as I am!" 
               "Flattery-flattery, Gus, but if you're ready let's be off. It is later than the time you mentioned, and punctuality stands at the head of the virtues of a business man. My father has often remarked to me that by it he made his fortune!" 
               The two gentlemen left the hotel, arm in arm, and entered a carriage at the door. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               After tea Mr. Anthon and his two lovely guests repaired to the parlor. 
               "It is time the parties were here:" said Mr. Anthon, glancing at his watch. 
               A hasty, heavy step was heard at the door, it was thrown widely open and a figure appeared upon the threshold! It was clad in an ancient brown bombazine mantle or cloak-an old fashioned bonnet, not unlike the Quaker bonnet in shape, but made of faded black silk, covered its head, it carried a bundle in one of its hand-a bun- dle tied up in a red and yellow cotton handkerchief. Its face was hidden by a thick green veil. In the other hand it carried a faded green cotton umbrella. What could it be? Mr. Anthon and his fair protegees had not time like the princely Dane, to cry "angels and ministers of Grace defend us"-before the veil which concealed the face of the figure was raised. 
               It was Mistress Deborah! Her face was deathly pale, except around her eyes which were red with weeping. 
               "I'm goin'!" she said, in a low, sad tone-"will send for my chist in the mornin'!" 
               "Going out in this terrible storm?" cried Mr. Anthon, while the young ladies were speechless from surprise. "Why, Mrs. Deborah, you must be crazy!" 
               "So I am, e'en-a-most!" she replied, "but I don't mind the storm nor nothin' now! I can go to cousin Patience Grants to spend the night, and-" 
               'Spend the night? Why, you are crazy! Who'll get our breakfast in the morning?" 
               "Your new wife, I suppose, if she isn't too proud to work-I'll dare say she's none too good!" 
               "My wife! Ha! ha! He! he! ho! ho!" 
               "Oh, it's no laffin' matter to me, Mr. Anthon!" and Mrs. Deborah commenced crying afresh. 
               "My, wife? why I'm not going to get married!" cried Mr. A., his sides still shaking with laughter. 
               "Oh, fie, Mr. Anthon, you told us both that you were this very evening going to take a partner for life!" cried Eugenia. 
               "So I am, you little duck, but I didn't say 'twas to be a woman! It is only a business 'partner, one of the handsome and wealthy young men I told you of-I expect you'll try to get him away from me and make him your partner for life, eh, Beauty-bud!" 
               "Now, Mr. Anthon, you oughtn't to make me blush!" 
               "Pshaw, child, a woman looks twice as lovely with a blush on her cheek, if her eye is laughing at the same time!" 
               But where's Mrs. Deborah all this time? She had heard Mr. A's explanation and had vanished. Not out into the storm, but down into the kitchen. Lydia followed her on tiptoe to see what the old lady would do. 
               First the old lady tore off the old bonnet, then the mantle, and then she actually commended dancing. She didn't really out the pigeon wings, or imitate the polka, but she hopped right up and down, shaker fashion. 
               "I know'd it-he couldn't have had it in his bussum to kill me with grief, and break my heart when I've knowed him so long, and loved him all the time without tellin' him on it!" 
               The old lady began to cry again, but these were tears of joy. A ring at the front door bell made her hastily wipe her eyes-and Lydia hurried back to the parlor to relate the scene which we have witnessed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               ONCE more let us look into the office of Mr. Grab, the Chief of the Lottery business in New York. The clerks are busy all around the room, each at his desk, making entries in the large ledgers before alluded to. Mr. Grab, as usual, occupies two chairs before the fire, and his favorite Havana sends up a cloud of smoke from his lips. He seems to enjoy life very much. Why shouldn't he-he is rich as Crsus, and has not the heart to think or care how he came by it. The pistol of the suicide does not ring in his ear-the shriek of the widow and orphan does not come piercingly in through the windows of his soul, they are shut out by the brass shutters that keep from it the light of humanity. The wail of the dying child, or the moan of the agonized mother who paid her last dime into his coffers, is unheard by him. 
               Tullius Catlin sat near Mr. Grab, and was reading a letter. After closing it, he turned to Mr. Grab, and said:- 
               "I like that Vanroy!" 
                
               "So do I, he's as smart as a steel-trap," replied Grab. 
               "This letter is from him, he has already got old Anthon to go into partnership with him. The letters you got for him must have told well! This partnership will throw him into a society we've not been able to touch before in Boston-and he can work to our interest better than any man I know of. I shouldn't be surprised if we netted $50,000 a month out of that city, saintly as it is said to be!" 
               "So we ought. I advanced him thirty thousand, you know!" 
               "Yes, but it is seed well sown, on good ground! It will produce, mark my word, it will. Van says he's got another fair speculation on hand by which he'll get a wife who has but one sister, and their father is worth over half a million!" 
               "Luck to him, then! Have you any letters from Baltimore this morning?" 
               "Yes, one from Sam Golden!" 
               "What has he to say?" 
               "Nothing of special interest except that some one of our friends of the New York police, I suspect who it is, but am not sure, has been on there fooling about the Post Office and telegraph offices to try to find out something about us!" 
               "He didn't make much at that!" 
               "I reckon not! We've got things too secure for that now. When I was on last I arranged matters on a new scale, for I suspected some such dodge. The New York Police are smart, but I've beat them out for the last six or seven years, and I'll be mighty apt to do it yet! I'm as keen as they are and have always been lucky! But I must answer these letters, excuse me!" 
               "Let's warm up with a glass of wine before you commence." 
               "A little might add to the flow of idea-I'll do so with pleasure!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               IT was evening. Charles Brennon had just returned from the store to his cottage home. His brow was clouded-he seemed annoyed at something. His young wife looked sad, but he seemed not to notice it. When tea was served, she remarked:- 
               "You've lost something, have you not Charles?" 
               "Yes, I lost some papers this morning, love, some important papers!" 
               "And I found them, and, oh, Charles, they were lottery tickets! How often I've heard my father speak of the dreadful evil of the lottery business! of its temptations and the infatuation of those who once get involved in those temptations. Charley, dear Charles, you do not know how wretched I have been since I picked up those tickets. I have this day shed the first tears that have passed my eyes since our marriage!" 
               "And oh how needlessly my love! Your father only spoke from hearsay-he did not know the business he condemned. To buy a lottery ticket is far from gambling, and only think love that by the expenditure of a few dollars you may in a moment become the recipient of a fortune!" 
               "Charles do not be angry with me for doubting your reasoning, father did not make his fortune and his spotless fame for honor and integrity in that way. The same door to wealth and reputation that admitted him, is open to you. In truth, you have the advantage. He commenced the world friendless and penniless-you know now, how rich he is, how much respected. Charles you know how much he loves you, how he almost worships me. Do not pain him. I would not for the world have him know that you had ever bought a lottery ticket!-Promise me never to buy another ticket, and let me throw these into the fire!" 
               "Dearest I'll buy no more, but let us save these, they have cost money and may bring us more. I can see the drawing in the morning, and if you will consent to my retaining them, I'll draw no more!" 
               "Well, my own sweet husband, on that condition keep them. But oh never, never buy another!" 
               "Never-by your lips I swear it!" 
                
               Of course he kissed the book. 
               And though she took no oath, it is as certain that she returned the kiss. In fact the oath was repeated several times, probably to make it the more binding. I like to administer such oaths myself, they are never compulsory, nor subject to cross questioning. 
               But a ring at the hall door bell startled the parties from their occupation, and the servant announced Mr. Tullius Catlin. The brow of Mrs. Brennon clouded Well might a shadow cross her sunny face-the serpent once more had entered Eden. 
               
                  
                     Catliin
                     Catlin
                   bowed low to Mr. Brennon, as he entered-lower still was his inclination to the lady. He was dressed elegantly-not exactly beyond taste, but very richly. His garments were of the finest texture, the most exquisite fit and the latest fashion. The only jewelry which he exposed was a diamond pin of great value, in his worked scarf; an immense ring of the same jewels on his finger, and a gold watch chain of the most curious fillagree workmanship. 
               "Good evening Mrs. and Mr. Brennon!" he said as he entered. "I am happy to see you looking so well. Having nothing on earth to dispel the care which ever clouds the heart of one who leads a solitary life, I thought I would accept your kind invitation and come over and sit an hour or so within your family circle;" he said. 
               "To which myself and wife, most heartily welcome you!" said Brennon. 
               "Certainly-pray be seated!" said Mrs. B. faintly. 
               Mr. Catlin took a seat and appeared perfectly at home. But his practised eye had noted on his entrance that something was wrong. What it was, his wisdom could not penetrate, but he determined to know before he separated from Charles Brennon that night, for he felt a presentiment that it was in some way connected with the game which he was playing. 
               "Are you fond of music?" asked Brennon, by way of starting a conversation. 
               "Of some kinds!" replied Catlin. "I acknowledge that I cannot understand or appreciate the beauties of the Italian or German masters, over which our critics rave in raptures, or that I am very solemnly impressed with the nasal thunder of a thousand voices when they break forth in 'Greenland's icy mountains;' but a sweet song, from a feeling heart, always finds an echo in my own. I love in a still moonlight night when wandering pensively by a lake-shore, in the shadow of trees whose leaves whisper back answers to the wooings of the breeze, to hear from afar off over the limpid water the rich, full breathings of the flute. That is music, is it not, Mrs. Brennon?" 
               "It must be sweet'" said the lady, who unconsciously had been listening with interest to every word he uttered. 
               "Will you not favor us with a song?-I observe that your piano is already open!" continued the visitor. 
               "Pray sir, excuse me-mine may be a fashionable excuse for a young lady, but as I am a married one, you will believe me when I say that a cold really incapacitates me!" 
               "Of course, I would not be so rude as to press you!" 
               "Won't you take a glass of wine, Mr. Catlin?" asked Brennon. 
               "Thank you, no, my kind Sir-I seldom partake of wine except at meals!" 
               "You smoke?" 
               "Never! I am free from that vice-or perhaps I am wrong, I should not call it a vice; a 'bad habit,' would be a better name!" 
               "You was right in the first name, Mr. Catlin!" said Mrs. B. warmly. "I wish the Indian that first found the nasty weed in the woods had been poisoned upon it, and that Sir Walter Raleigh had drowned when he was carrying it over the ocean to introduce its use among civilized people!" 
               "Ha! ha! Mary becomes fiery over cigar smoke in a moment!" said Brennon. "I never can enjoy a prime Habana in her presence!" 
               "Enjoy! Why my dear Charles, 
                     Iid
                     I'd
                   rather smell the fumes of brimstone! You give a monkey tobacco, and he'll spit it out! The very hogs which will eat the garbage in the streets, will turn away from tobacco in disgust!" 
               "Well, well, my love, I give in, as MEN always have to do when the women argue. I'll have to quit smoking, but let us have some music-if you cannot sing, you can at least play us some new polkas and marches!" 
               "Certainly, love!" and the young wife seated herself at the piano. Her jewelled fingers ran like living gems over the ivory keys, and she evinced a skill that few of her sex could attain, in her execution of several pieces of the most difficult nature. 
                     Seience
                     Science
                   had finished for her what natural genius had commenced. Her father had spoken truly when he told his son-in-law that he had no need to go to operas or theatres to hear good music-he had it at home. 
               Thus in conversation and in music the evening passed off very agreeably. Mr. Catlin used every endeavor to make himself agreeable, especially to the lady. His ideas were expressed in the most chaste terms, his principles seemed of the highest order. Even Brennon who had only seen Catlin "in the rough" as we may say, began to entertain a far higher estimate of him, much as he had thought of him before. He had no idea he was so refined, so well informed-so much of a gentleman. 
               And the lady-she who had so disliked and dreaded him? We can only say that much of her prejudice had vanished! 
               It was quite late, between eleven and twelve, when Catlin rose to leave. Brennon accompanied him to the door. Catlin had not forgotten the state of excitement in which he found Brennon when he came in, and as they stood on the little porch he said: 
               "Charley, haven't you been in some trouble to-day-if you have tell me, you know I'm your friend!" 
               "Trouble, Catlin! What do you mean? You see I'm the happiest dog alive!" 
               "I know you have every reason to be happy my dear boy-but mark me, I'm no wizard, but I can read a man's very soul by his looks. When I came in first, I noted that you had been deeply annoyed at something!" 
               "You are right, I had!" 
               "And that annoyance had also cast a shadow upon the face of your pure, good young wife!" 
               "Again you are right, it had!" 
               "And as a friend, who in heart, hand, and purse is entirely at your service, may I not ask what that annoyance was?" 
               "Yes, by Jove, Catlin, you are my friend, you shall know all! She has discovered that I buy lottery tickets, her old fool father always made her think it a crime and-" 
               "How did she discover it?" asked Catlin. 
               "By finding the package of tickets which I bought yesterday. I dropped them from my pocket this morning. I have promised her to buy no more!" 
               "That is right-without these draw a prize! You know luck once in, don't change in a single turn. If you win a big prize in this drawing, a $5000 set of diamonds won't make her blame you much for trying your chance again. By the way have you the tickets?" 
               "Yes, here they are?" 
               "Let me look-why on my word it seems to me I saw 17 on the drawing of the capital prize before I came over to-night. Charley, let me take this package till morning, I'll see you at lunch-time at the "Shades," maybe I'll have good news for you!" 
               "I hope so; take them, good night." 
               "Good night, old boy-pleasant dreams!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               ANOTHER character yet, in our Drama, and a strange, but a true one. But first we'll raise the curtain and look at the scenery in which he is "bound to shine." 
               Come up into the attic of one of the oldest cribs in Ann street. The furniture of the room is simple, even less expensive than cleanly. It consists of one old stool-a bench which looks greasy, as if it had been used for a table, and a small laying or gathering of old blankets and rags in one cor- ner, made up not exactly bed-like, but as if something had slept there. 
               There is an old anger-hole, or knot-hole in one end of the bench and therein is stuck the remains of a tallow candle and close beside it lays a piece of charcoal. We would be puzzled to know the use of that piece of charcoal, were it not that figures are marked heavily in black all over the once-white-washed wall, evidently traced by the coal. Scarce a spot on the four sides of the room, or on the plastered ceiling above, that was not covered. We will keep the reader in the dark no longer. This was and is the room of 
                     Evans the Dreamer,
                   a character well known to all the policy dealers and many policy buyers of New York. 
               I have described his room and his furniture, and now will ring him in. Behold an individual of sixty, who looks full eighty. His thin hairs are not grey or white-they are a dirty yellow. Like the veterans of "76," there are very few left. His teeth having mostly taken leave of absence, have left his upper lip unsupported and it droops toward the nether, sympathetically. His nose seems to be sharply looking after its friends below. But his keen grey eyes, like glow worms encastled in a skull, gleam out with a strange, strong light. His form is a study for an anatomist. It is that of a once handsome, appollonian figure, now reduced, not by the knife or scalpel, but by time and want, to "skin and bone." A few ragged clothes conceal its interesting outlines from the man of science, but the Anatomical Museum with all its boasted treasures, could not show a better specimen. 
               Believe me reader, that man was once the central star of fashionable society-courted and admired-yes envied! Talk of romance and fiction-REALITY beats it all. I am no novelist, I do not claim the name or the fictitious honor-I am a painter and I paint from LIFE! My characters are not "air-drawn," they are of flesh and blood. 
               But I forgot-we, that is the reader and myself are in Evan's room. Hark, he enters. See him, thin, gaunt and pale, but with wildly glaring eyes as he enters. He comes to the stool, sits down, pulls out his old snuff box and takes a pinch of snuff. Then from a pocket of his ragged trowsers he pulls out a piece of brown paper, carefully unfolds it and-what do we see? A roll of bank bills. Strange to see such signs of wealth, where all else is so squalidly poor! 
               "Good dreams! Good dreams!" he muttered. "I know'd I had the numbers. I've won a pile to-day-a few nights more and I'll break 'em, and then I'll buy Long Island and be a king!" 
               He took a pinch of snuff and then counted his money. Twilight was spreading its fog-he could scarcely see the numbers on the bills, so he lighted his candle in the bench. But before he did it, he went and put a stick of wood up against the hasp of the door-the only lock it seemed to have, by the way. After he had counted and closely examined each bill, he muttered-"seventeen hundred dollars to-day! Pretty good-but I'll sleep and dream-DREAM!" 
               He did not undress, but he blew out the light and then cast himself down upon the bundle of blankets and rags in the corner. In a few moments he seemed to have fallen into a profound slumber. He breathed heavily, but regularly. Soon afterwards he began to mutter. 
               "No-17-37-them's gigs!" he muttered. "I'll take three whole ones this time. Let-let's see-17-37-and that other number isn't plain!" 
               The sleeping man, for he was already asleep, rose and going to the bench took up the piece of charcoal. Though his eyes were closed, he turned his face toward every part of the room as if he was looking for a blank spot to mark something upon. At last, he knelt down on the floor and on one of the planks marked in heavy, bold figures, 17, 37, and then laid the charcoal down by his marks. 
               After this he again cast himself on his rude pallet. There for the present we'll leave him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               IN the eighth chapter of this story I introduced the reader to Constance Morley and her mother, and left them suddenly, as a knock at their door indicated a visitor.-When they heard the knock, Constance at once went to the door, and opened it. A gentlemanly dressed man stood upon the threshold, one who, in garb and in looks, did not resemble a robber or a ruffian. Miss Morley would at once have asked him to come in, but he spoke first. 
               "Is this the residence of Mrs. Morley?" he asked. 
               "It is, Sir!" said Constance. 
               "And your are-" 
               "Her daughter, Sir!" 
               "Then I am right; I called to see you on business!" 
               "Walk in and be seated, Sir-My mother, Sir-" 
               "My service to you, Madam, my name is Catlin, I am in a heavy business down town, and having occasion for much copying, and having heard that your daughter wrote rapidly and well, I called to see if I could not engage her as a letter-copyist!"* 
               "'Twould be better than sewing-how much can she earn?" asked Mrs. M. 
               "I'm not particular in regard to compensation-if twenty dollars a week will remunerate her, I shall be happy to give it!" 
               "Twenty dollars a week?" asked the old lady, scarcely believing her ears. 
               "Yes, Madame, and more if she thinks after trying the labor that it is too little!" 
               "Really, Sir, you are too generous!" 
               "No, Madam-I have reasons for everything I do. Do not think me entirely disinterested. The man who does a good action and says that his motives are wholly unselfish, tells an untruth. There is a motive at the bottom of everything. I have a motive. I knew your late husband. He once did me a favor! I have not forgotten it. It was only two or three days before his death. I but lately heard where you resided, and the first promptings of my heart were to call upon and see if I could serve you. I beg you not to think that it is only you whom I serve, for in the business I am in, your daughter's services as a copyist will be fully worth her salary, and I serve myself by engaging her!" 
               "I fear I cannot fulfil the duties of the station, Sir!" said the young lady, timidly, "I have had no experience!" 
               "It requires none, only that you write a plain, legible hand. That you write an elegant one, I can vouch!" 
               "How, Sir? You have never seen my hand writing!" 
               "Yes, Miss Constance, I saw a note you once addressed to your father. It was written in pencil and evidently in a hurry, but he showed it to me and I admired it.-This occurred only a few days before his sad demise!" 
               The widow's eyes filled with tears. The words of Catlin recalled the past. Tears were not strangers to her, however, and she treated them familiarly, she brushed them away. 
               Catlin did not remain long. While he was there, his conversation was free and friendly, even as if he had been an old acquaintance, but in no way offensive. Mrs, Morley was delighted with him-he seemed so kind, so affable, so generous, and withal, so unostentatious. Constance was pleased with his manner, yet intuitively she seemed to shrink from him. Yet when he gave her a card with his address upon it, she promised to call on the morrow to arrange the preliminaries for entering up upon her duties as a copyist. 
               He took his leave. As he walked from the door he muttered-"She is fast in my net. I'll pay Morley for his last favor, now. I wish he could see me cancel the debt. Not two hours before he killed himself, he struck me in the face and called me thief! The blow burns yet-but he shall pay for it through those whom he has left behind.- Constance is a beauty, rather a proud one I think, keen too, as a briar! But I'll humble her pride-I'll bring her down before I am done. It will require caution-well, I am ever cautious. It will require courage not the courage which is called for when a man faces death on the battle-field, but the courage which must nerve a man when on a desperate hazard, in love or in game, he casts all upon 
                     the the
                     the
                   turn of a die-a courage which may perhaps be termed impudence, coolness or something of that kind. She shall be mine-soul and body-once mine, when I have hissed in her ear-girl, your father called me a thief, and struck me, she may go to the Devil, to Blackwell's Island, the Asylum, or Potters' field, I don't care!" 
               How different the conversation and feelings in the little room of Mrs. Morley and her daughter, after Catlin left. 
               "Mother," said Constance, after she had closed the door, "I told you better times would come-I felt then, a presentiment of what has occurred! Now you will not have to work. My salary will be ample 
                     to to
                     to
                   support us handsomely. We will no longer have to turn our dresses, to do our own washing and cooking. I'll hire a girl to-morrow. And mother, we can send to market and get what we want, and not have go to the corner grocery for a slice of ham or a herring-oh, mother, I feel rich since that gentleman came!" 
               "I wonder if he is married?" asked the mother. 
               "Why-mother?" 
               "Nothing, child, only I was thinking-" 
               "Ha! ha! ha! you don't want to get rid of me, mother? He is not fool enough to marry a poor girl, when as you can see by his dress and the way he talks of business, that he is rich! Rich men generally seek rich wives-I suppose they feel a delicacy in courting poor ones, for fear the girls may think they want to buy them!" 
               "I wasn't saying anything about marrying, I only remarked-or I didn't remark, I just wondered in my own mind if he was married! He didn't look like a married man?" 
               "Why mother? Do married men look different from single persons of the same sex?" 
               "Of course they do, child! Didn't your poor dear father always look pale and kind o' thoughtful, as if he knew the responsibility he had on his shoulders, that of supporting me and bringing you up right? All married men look that way, more or less. They show it in their looks-but all this isn't getting tea-I'll make a strong cup to-night, there's nothing like tea for people of weak nerves like me!" 
               Having delivered herself of this sage opinion, Mrs. Morley betook herself to preparing the evening meal, and as we don't like to interfere in kitchen matters, we'll let down the curtain and seek new amusement in another chapter 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               IT was eleven o'clock when Catlin, after leaving Brennon's house in Brooklyn, arrived at Grab's rooms. Yet the last named gentleman was up. He was occupied as usual in smoking a prime Habana. As usual, he occupied two chairs, his legs across one. No one but himself was in the room. 
               "Ah, Tullius," he said, as our villain, for Tullius Catlin is the villain, not the here of this story, entered-"I'm glad you have come in. I was getting go to-bed-atively inclined, as my friend Willis says when he's sleepy." 
               "I'm anything but sleepy just now-we've got business on hand. But for the mere accident of a visit which I made to-night to get a peep at a pretty woman, we might have lost the best pigeon in our trap!" 
               "How so?" 
               "You know about Brennon" 
               "Yes, old Brent's son-in-law-he's ours safe enough!" 
               "If things are managed right he is-but if I hadn't gone over to his house to-night our cake would have been dough!" 
               "The devil, you say!" 
               "Yes, sure as shooting. You see I took a fancy to his wife, she is heavenly, the first time I saw her. I thought this evening I'd pay him a visit and study into her character a little so as to see how I might make my advances, for a woman is like a fortification, you must know something of its position and defences before you dare to venture an assault. Well, as I said before, I went over-when I went in I saw that clouds had been hovering over the parties. Before I left him I found out the reason. She had found out that he had been buying tickets, was horrified, a curtain lecture had ensued, her father having taught her that murder wasn't half so bad as buying lottery tickets. He had promised of course to quit!" 
               "How did she find it out?" 
               "The fool dropped the last package he bought, in his bed-room, but I've got it from him and now the only way to hold on to him is to let him draw a prize from these numbers-at least a five thousand dollar go!" 
               "Well, you can fix that, my boy. I leave those matters to your judgment, entirely!" 
               "You can rely on my working things up right, Sir! All that I want is capital and a carte blanche, and I'll make your firm equal the Rothschilds of Europe, in wealth, yet! We have more influence now, than any firm in America. We have judges in our power, we can buy the press-we can defy the law, yes, by making legislators we can make laws to suit ourselves. A few years more, Mr. Grab, of proper management, will give us the reins and we can reign as despotic as the Czar of Russia, rain showers of gold on our friends, and floods of trouble on our foes!" 
               Ring down the curtain! The orchestra will please play the 
                     lemoncholy
                     melancholy
                   tune of "Old Uncle Ned," over the lamentable, sudden and unexpected demise of this chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               IT was the next day. In a lottery office in Centre street stood quite a motley crowd, behind the "screen." Several of them wore black, some were women or had been once, before raggedness, rum and filth deprived them of woman's first right, that of being looked upon as the connecting link between the angels of heaven and we sublunary masculine humans. They were all listening to 
                     Evans the Dreamer,
                   who for a "consideration" offered to tell his dreams of the night before. Fifty cents apiece was the "consideration." One old negress who had but one eye-and had the white blotches of small pox on her scarred and rum-bloated countenance, seemed most anxious to take advantage of his offer. 
               "I win'd seven dollars and a half off o' your las' dream, Mr. Evans," she said-"I'll try you again, here's your half, now whisper me what's de gig to-day!" 
               Evans bent down his mouth close to the ear of the hideous hag after he had received he coin, and whispered numbers. She left to buy a ticket at another office, for she didn't want any of her companions to know what her number was. 
               One after another paid Evans for information as to what would be their luck that day, and it is needless to say that they implicitly believed him. He of course helped the lottery and policy dealers, for the most of his credulous friends spent their last dime in purchasing tickets. 
                
               How was it with our friend Brennon-was he in "luck" that day. Yes, in good luck as far as mere winning was concerned, but in bad luck when we remember that he was allowed to win only that he might be led deeper into the snare of those who sought his ruin. It was about eleven, or "lunch time" that Brennon as he promised, met his friend Catlin, at the "Shades" The face of the latter was flushed with triumph. 
               "I predicted you'd be in luck, Charley," he said, "and I've not made a false prophecy! You had the lucky numbers and have drawn ten thousand dollars!" 
               "Ten thousand dollars!" gasped Brennon-"TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS? You're joking!" 
               "Does this look like a joke?" said Catlin as he handed Brennon a roll of bank notes-"there is every cent with only the discount off." 
               "Well-you are a prophet, by Jove I didn't dream of this good luck!" 
               "What'll you do with the money?" asked Catlin. 
               "I hardly know-I've some old scores to pay!" 
               Brennon blushed as he said that, for the "scores" he alluded to was the stolen money he had taken from his father-in-law's safe, which he was now about to return before his misconduct (crime I had better say,) had been discovered. 
               "They don't amount to much, I expect!" said Catlin with assumed carelessness. 
               "No, not a great deal; about nine hundred dollars!" 
               "Well then, after clearing them up, I'd advise you to buy your excellent and beautiful lady a full set of diamond jewelry. The ladies are always well pleased with such marks of attention from their husbands!" 
               "But Mr. Brent when he saw them on her would at once ask how I could afford such a purchase. He knows that I possess nothing beyond my salary!" 
               "Tell him that it is from the proceeds of a legacy left you by a relative!" 
               "My wife who detests falsehood, would be present and hear me most likely and I should lose caste in her estimation. I've many faults Catlin, but I possess one virtue-I love her better than life!" 
               "But she'd forgive a 'white fib' when she gazed on the glittering gems!" 
               "I fear that I should see gems brighter than them, tears glistening her eyes! Catlin, I almost wish I hadn't drawn this prize!" 
               "Why Charley what a mump you are! But if you don't want the money, go give it to the first beggar you meet that can't speak English. You'll find a dozen between here and the next corner." 
               "Im not quite so much of a fool as that! I'll keep the money, buy the jewelry and invest the rest in-" 
               "Buying a dozen or two more packages of tickets!" 
               "No, no! My promise to my wife forbids that?" 
               "Poh-when luck once turns in your favor it is sure to continue for a while. You may win a fortune in a week-I'd not throw a fortune away on such chances as you have now!" 
               "Well, I'll take your advice Catlin, I know you are my friend, and now let us 'smile.' I feel dry with so much money in my pocket!" 
               "I think most men feel dryest when they have none!" responded Catlin. 
               While they "smile," reader, we'll sigh and travel into another chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               ONCE more we'll take a glance at Mr. Grab's office. As usual the clerks are busy-not this time with their ledgers, but engaged in sealing and folding circulars. What were these circulars for and to whom directed? Judge by each clerk having a directory before him of various towns in this and other states. And the circulars were invitations to buy tickets, puffing the "schemes" &c. They were being directed, bushels of them at that, in defiance of our laws, to citizens whose names were found in the Directories, for the purpose of drawing more victims into the entangling meshes of the lottery net. Not a mail leaves our post office that does not contain thousands of these infamous missives, sent forth to decoy the unwary. Beware of them. I have no doubt but that thousands of my readers have received such documents, perhaps many of them have suffered from the same. If they have, the old adage that "a burned child dreads the fire," will I hope be remembered by them. 
               Mr. Grab was pacing up and down the room hurriedly, his manner evincing no very good humor. At this moment Catlin entered. 
               "I'm glad you've come, Tullius!" said Grab-"we've more trouble on hand!" 
               "Trouble?" What is up now?" 
               "Oh it is more of that cursed law! I wish the members that passed it were choked with the bill. Glendye has been arrested!" 
               "What, the Wall street man?" 
               "Yes! He has just sent to me to bail him. He threatens to peach if I don't and to expose all our operations." 
               "Well he must be bailed! It won't be over five or eight hundred dollars bail!" 
               "Yes it will-the case is before Barney Osborne, and he'll be bound to put it up to at least three thousand. He is down on us!" 
               "Well, we'll have to bail the man!" 
               "And lose the three thousand, of course!" 
               "Better to lose that than get into a scrape that'll cost us twenty thousand!" 
               "You're right-Tullius. But I wish you'd attend to this matter, I don't want to be known in the business!" 
               "I'll do it of course-when does the examination come off?" 
               "At three, this afternoon!" 
               "I must get it laid over till to-morrow morning, then! I have an engagement at my private rooms at that hour, one which I can't break as it is with a lady!" 
               "Oh, can't you lay aside your love affairs for business!" 
               "Mine is no love affair, it is rather one of hate, of vengeance-I'll tell you the facts some day perhaps-but I'll attend to Glendye's case. We must get him off and then get clear of him entirely-he hasn't caution enough to suit our trade. By the way who makes the charge?" 
               "Young Morville of S. & Co.'s-in Pearl street." 
               "Oh Jupiter-the whole affair lays in a nut-shell now. We can settle the affair without any trouble. Morville is a brother-in-law to Alderman B-, and a nephew of Judge D-. We can clear Glendye through their aid, for I possess a secret about this same Morville that would give his family rather unenviable notoriety. When he and they become aware of what I know, they'll sue for peace instead of prosecuting us. Why I can send him to Sing Sing in a week!" 
               "Catlin, you are a trump card! But I'd like to know how you find out so many secrets. You must be in league with the devil!" 
               "Some people think I am old Satan, disguised in a presentable shape!" said the villian with a laugh. "But I must be off. I've plenty of work on my hands!" 
               "Yes, you're always here, there and everywhere. I don't see how you are able to stand so much work!" 
               "Because it pays!" said Catlin as he went from the room. 
               Mr. Grab now felt easy again, and lighting his cigar, seated himself on two chairs as usual and took comfort. 
               A couple of hours later than this, Mr. Catlin sat in an easy chair in a room magnificently furnished. But in its furniture it bore a business air. An open desk revealing packages of papers-account books, &c. occupied one corner. A rosewood centre-table was covered with writing materials, loose letters, &c., indicating that Mr. Catlin had an extensive correspondence. Fine pictures and mirrors adorned the walls. A Brussells carpet, from Anderson's choicest shelf, deadened the tread of the feet which moved across it. Chairs cushioned and lined with satin; sofas of velvet were there. Everything betokened wealth and a luxuriant taste. Catlin, ever richly dressed, was on this occasion attired with unusually studious care-he was expecting a visitor, and that visitor was Miss Constance Morley. He evidently intended to make an impression. A door that led to an inner room had been left open, and the eye glancing within could observe even a greater display of luxury there. Paintings, if not quite so delicate, of a far more 
                     voluptous
                     voluptuous
                   order, adorned its walls. The walls were not painted or papered, they were hung with folds of pink satin which gave a mellow rosy light to the room. The curtains over a couch in an alcove of the room were made of gold-colored satin, deeply fringed with lace. Everything else in the room corresponded with this in richness. 
               I have been thus particular in description, because I wish to show what a lottery dealer can afford, how a man who but a few years since was a convicted thief, working his time out in prison, who has until lately lived literally "from hand to mouth," can "rise in the world" by becoming an agent, a useful agent in the heaviest and most infamous traffic in this city, lottery and policy dealing. My Tullius Catlin is no coinage of the brain, his wealth, shrewdness and talent in villany no picture of fiction-he is alive, in the city, and I am only giving the devil his due in every line I write about him. And I am doing it and this task of exposing the Lottery League at a risk which few would care to undertake. A million of dollars capital, yes more, lays ready to be used to crush me. The assassin's hire, the lawyer's fee, the juror's bribe, the judge's temptation, the poisoner's reward are centred in the millions held by a few men, who in open defiance of our laws are ruining thousands of our citizens, robbing the poor and swindling the rich, making wreck of families, desolating once happy homes, dragging young clerks into the dungeon, and breaking fond mother's, beloved sister's and confiding wive's heart's. 
               But for the only reward which I ask, the satisfaction of exposing villany and assisting virtue, I am content to run the risk. Life is not, never can be dear to me, and while I possess it I'll do my duty. 
               But back to my story: I must get loose from the thread of my tale once in a while to stick my needle into the cursed creatures whom I am describing. 
               Mr. Catlin had not long remained in his elegant parlor or office, before a liveried servant, a negro as spruce as one of Mrs. Stowe's favorite heroes, entered and announced that Miss Morley was at the door waiting an audience. 
               "Ask the lady in!" said Mr. C. 
               She entered, looking more beautiful by far than on the two occasions when we have before met her. Her cheeks flushed by exercise in the open air, and probably too by her prospect of lucrative and honorable employment, were like an opening rose-bud-her dark-blue eyes were bright as the ocean water when the sun rays dance over it. Her tall, elegant form appeared to advantage in the neat mourning dress which she wore. Her little black bonnet set far enough back to reveal the faultness of her classic brow. And withal she looked majestically innocent. Oh how much true majesty there is in the innocence of a woman. Even the heartless, brazen-faced libertine shrinks abashed from it and flies to seek a suitable atmosphere in the presence of the flower, which, when its innocence perished, lost its fragrance. 
               "I am most happy to see you Miss Morley," said Catlin, bowing excessively low to the lady as he handed her to a chair. "I am also happy to see you so punctual to the hour." 
               "I always keep my promise, Mr. Catlin," she replied, "and never make a promise that I cannot keep!" 
               "And therein you are superior to many of your sex-many of them make promises which they never intend to keep!" 
               "Yes, Sir, such may be the case, but I hope such specimens are few and far between?" 
               "They may be, I do not acknowledge to much experience, for my business life allows me but very little time to mingle in the society of ladies. Is your mother well?" 
               "Quite well, I thank you Sir. Can I commence the duties of the situation you have so kindly offered me, to-day?" 
               "Yes, Miss Morley, but at first they will not be very arduous. I have only to request you to copy in my letter book three letters which must be sent South by this evening's mail. But ere I forget it, permit me to pay your week's salary in advance. Here are two eagles-" 
               "Oh, Sir, really-" 
               "Make no excuse Miss Morley-I remarked before as a friend to your late father, I felt a right to act like a friend to you." 
               The young lady took the money without speaking. The emotion caused by the allusion to her father whom she had so much loved, was like a finger placed over her lips. 
               Mr. S. then handed the letters to her which he wished copied, (which I need not tell you reader, without you are very green, were got up expressly for the occasion) and said:- 
               "I am called out by business, and must be absent an hour or two. My housekeeper, Mrs. Caneouse, is out, but will be in shortly and may afford you company enough to keep you from being lonesome. She is a good, kind old lady, I look upon her almost as a mother! Though indeed I know not what a mother is, for mine died while yet I was a babe-my father also, and I have grown up in the life-field alone!" 
               "I'm so sorry! There is nothing in early life like a dear father and mother!" 
               Constance uttered that sentence so feelingly, so naturally, so sweet, that anything less than a ruffian heart, case hardened in the forge of hell, by the hand of Satan himself, must have felt the force of both tone and words. 
               But Catlin, more hardened than the Arch Fiend himself, insensible to pity as he was to honor, felt not even the breath borne from that sweet flower, by the gentle zephyrs of sympathy. 
               He left the apartment. Did Constance at once sit down to her task of copying those letters? No. Woman from the time that Eve wanted to taste the forbidden fruit in the garden of Eden, has been afflicted with curiosity. She seems to take the disease naturally and never to care the price of a brass pin or a broken heart for the consequences. And our sweet Constance, like all pretty girls, had her share of it. (Ladies, don't get mad at me, for you've not got a better friend in the world than Ned is, cruelly as a portion of your sex have treated me.) 
               Constance, when Mr. Catlin left, took a look at all the pictures in the parlor, examined the furniture &c.; not satisfied with this, she peeped into the inner room. 
               "How rich he must be!" she murmured. "And he is handsome-he is intelligent, he dresses well!" she added. 
               Did not Catlin understand woman-nature when he left her there alone. He did and the first seeds of his design were already sowed in her pure young heart. He had excited the two first of the three most dangerous parts in the composition of a woman. First her sympathy, next her admiration. The other dangerous part is love! Why so? Because though it is the father of happiness, it is the step-mother of jealousy. But I don't know enough of the subject to philosophise on love, so I'll quit. 
               Constance, after her brief survey, seated herself at the table and commenced copying the letters. She had nearly finished the task, when the door opened, and an elderly lady, plainly and neatly attired, entered the room. Constance was pleased with her first look at the lady, she looked so kind and amiable. 
               The latter spoke first 
               "You are the young lady, Miss, that Mr. Catlin has employed as a writer?" 
               "Yes Madam?" 
               "I'm glad to see you, he speaks so highly of you and your mother! I am his housekeeper-after you are done writing, I hope you will come down in my room and have a friendly chat with me, I'm quite lonesome!" 
               "I will with pleasure, Madam. Have you been long with Mr. Catlin?" 
               "Yes, for many years. He is a kind good young man, and so moral in his principles!" 
               "It is strange that he don't get married!" said Constance. 
               "So it is, but I've often heard him say he would never give his hand where his heart could not accompany it!" replied Mrs. Caneouse. "Yes," she added, "and I've heard him say that he'd rather marry a girl who had not a cent in the world or a second dress in her wardrobe, if she loved him, than an heiress who did not!" 
               Reader, I'm getting tired of this chapter, we'll let the women have their talk out, by themselves, and go elsewhere for amusement. 
               I will only for supposition's sake "guess" that Constance 
                     Movley
                     Morley
                   and her mother had a good supper that night, and that if she had any dreams, they were about her supposed benefactor. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               MR. ANTHON was down in the kitchen smoking his pipe, close in the chimney corner. It was a vulgar practice for a wealthy merchant, but he could afford it. And he did it decently, for he wasn't smoking in the parlor. 
               Mrs. Deborah was seated with her knitting work in the other corner. In the parlor above were the Misses Eugenia and Lydia. They were not alone. Mr. Augustus Vanroy, Mr. Anthon's new partner was seated near Lydia; his friend Mr. Dennison was seated close by Eugenia. Now neither of the parties were unfriendly, yet each couple were seated in opposite corners of the room. And they were speaking low, in whispers-perhaps telling each other secrets. I'll let young folks guess what they were talking about and go and see the "old folks at home" in the kitchen. 
               "Mrs. Deborah!" said Mr. Anthon, as he shook the ashes from his pipe and proceeded to refill it for the third time- 
               "What do you think of the young folks up stairs?" 
               Mrs. Deborah proceeded to raise her spectacles from her nose, that she might see her master, and laying down her knitting work, said: 
               "You know I love the gals, they are good creeters, Mr. Anthon!" 
               "Yes, fine girls-fine girls, but the young men, what of them, eh?" 
               "You want me to tell just what I think?" 
               "Of course I do!" 
               "Well, I like that Mr. Dennison, he seems to me like the bible, every varse you read you can understand. He is a proper nice young man. He speaks plain out and haint got no manners like as if he thought he was above folks. And he looks folks right in the eye when he talks to 'em, just as if he wasn't afeard his eyes would call his tongue a liar when it spoke!" 
               "But you don't speak of my partner, Mr. Vanroy!" said Mr. Anthon as he picked up a coal with a pair of tongs and lighted his pipe. 
               "You want me to tell just what I think?" 
               "Of course I do, go on!" 
               "Wall now, don't be spunky about it Mr. Anthon, but I don't like him, and I'm sorry he's settin' up towards Miss Liddy, for I like the gal and I'm awful afeard he'll make her poor little heart ache yet. He speaks too soft, like as if he had grease and 'lasses in his mouth, and when he talks to anybody his eyes keep a journeyin' 'round the room. I like folks to look me right in the eyes when they talk to me. I'm afeard that feller won't turn out no good!" 
               "But Mrs. Deborah he has the best of recommendations." 
               "I don't keer for any recommendations, you asked me to tell you just what I thinked, and what I thinked I've said. I know, as my cousin Deacon Grant says, of himself, that I'm a poor weak sepulchre of clay and prone to go astray as I travel on the way, but ef that are feller don't turn out to be a mean creeter, I'll keep house for you all next year for nothin'!" 
               "Ah there's a ring at the door bell-go up and see who is there?" 
               "The old lady lowered her spectacles upon the well-worn saddle of her nose, laid down her knitting work and travelled. 
               In a moment she returned. She had a letter in her hand. 
               "Here's suthin' a woman left for you, Sir!" she said. 
                
               "A woman?" said Mr. Anthon in surprise. He was not in the habit of being bothered by notes from ladies. (Now don't get mad at me about that word "bother," ladies.) 
               "Yes," said Mrs Deborah, "a female creeter I think, 'cause she had a frock and bonnet on. I couldn't see her face, she had her veil down! She jist said-'Does Mr. Anthon live here?' I said 'Yes m'm, he does!' Then she said 'Give him this note,' and off she went. That's all!" 
               Mr. Anthon opened the note. Its contents if not unpleasant, at least agitated him for he dropped his pipe on the hearth, where it was shivered into many pieces. 
               "La, suz!" there you've smashed your pipe!" said Mrs. Deborah. 
               Her master still gazed with an agitated countenance upon the letter. 
               "It can't be!" he muttered. 
               "Yes you've drapped it at your feet!" continued the old lady. 
               "I must go and see him instantly?" muttered Mr. Anthon again, not heeding Mrs. Deborah. 
               "Want yer hat and overcoat and injun rubbers, I 'spose, ef you're goin' out?" 
               "I'm not going out, woman-for the Lord's sake don't bother me!" cried Mr. Anthon as with the open letter in his hand he left the room. 
               "Marcy's sakes! My gracious! 'Woman,' he called me! Not 'bother' him! What on the airth can be the matter. He's a goin' crazy, or else-oh, that creeter that brought the letter may be at the bottom o' this pickle tub? There's suthin' strange-maybe that are man is agoin' to git married! If he is I'll never speak to him agin! I'll find out, see ef I don't!" 
               We'll leave Mrs. Deborah to her wonderings and follow Mr. Anthon to the parlor. When he went in he called to Vanroy. 
               "Will you step here a moment, Mr. Vanroy-I have received a letter which concerns our firm, and it requires our mutual attention!" 
               The young man excused himself to the fair girl by whom he had been seated and stepped over to where Mr. Anthon was standing. The latter handed him the letter open, narrowly scanning his countenance as he commenced reading it. For an instant a flush of anger flew like lightning over his face-then, he was calm as before, but he bit his lips till the blood ran. 
               "Mr. Anthon!" said he in a low tone, "this is the work of some infamous secret enemy. The charge is false-tell me how it came into your hands?" 
               "A veiled female left it here a few minutes since!" 
               "Some creature hired by an enemy who either envies me my good fortune, or whom I have offended-some would-be rival either in my love or prosperity!" 
               "But who could you have offended here? Lydia never has received marked attentions from any one else!" 
               "True Sir, there is some mystery which I cannot unravel. But rest assured that the charge is false. I am no deceiver-you have vouchers for my character which no man can doubt-pray let me look closely at this letter, let me keep it till morning, I may discover a clue to the hand-writing from among letters from my many correspondents-oh that I could find the originator of so base a trick!" 
               "Keep the letter till morning!" said Mr. Anthon-"but I shall want it then, for I must be satisfied in this matter!" 
               "You shall have it, Sir! I hope you'll not mention the matter to anybody else!" 
               "Certainly not-certainly not, I hope all will be right!" 
               Mr. Anthon returned to the kitchen to fill another pipe and to ponder. 
               Vanroy returned to the side of Lydia-only to announce that sudden business called him out and then turned to excuse himself to Dennison and the other lady. 
               "It must be important business to call you from us at such an early hour!" said Miss Eugenia. 
               "It is, I regret to say!" 
               "Then, perhaps I may be of service let me accompany you!" said Dennison. 
               "No, it is not of a nature to 
                     reguire
                     require
                   a friend, but thanks for the offer!" said Vanroy. 
               "No thanks, my dear Augustus, if the ladies can excuse your presence I am sure they can mine!" 
               "Well as you will, if they will in turn accept from us a morning's call!" and he bowed low to the ladies. 
               "Certainly!" said Lydia. "It is a motto of our dear father, that business should always take the precedence of pleasure!" 
               The young men made their adieus, warm ones too, they seemed to be, and departed. 
               "What business can call you out so suddenly and so late?" asked Dennison of his companion. 
               "Something too important to neglect! You are aware that I have a mistress!" 
               "Yes, but you told me that influenced by virtuous love you had cast her off! That for Lydia's sake, as I for that of my angelic Eugenia, you had cast aside your follies, sins I might as well call them?" 
               "So I have, but the vixen won't be cast off, without revenge; she has written to Anthon to-night!" 
               "Did you not provide for her when you sent her away?" 
               "Of course, I did, like a man and a gentleman!" 
               "What has she written to him?" 
               "A letter which I have in my pocket, stating that she has heard that I am courting a protegee of his, and that if so she wishes to inform him that I am not only a villain and libertine, but am married already, as he can be satisfied by having an interview with her, which if he wishes he can have by addressing her to the initials which she signs in the letter!" 
               "Why Gus, this is a serious matter!" 
               "I'll make it serious, before I'm done with it," muttered Vanroy to himself, then raising his tone, he said: "Yes, Dennison, it is unpleasant. Can you advise me how to arrange it?" 
               "Why, Gus, really I don't know what to do, or what to say!" 
               "Then my dear boy, the wisest thing is for you to do or say nothing! Leave me to plot and ponder, you wend your way to your lodgings; I will to mine!" 
               "You'll plot nothing dishonorable, I hope! Remember, I love Eugenia, and any misconduct on your part would reflect on me and injure my chance of marriage with her." 
               "And do not I love Lydia? Are not my hopes of fortune all embraced within the circle of her love and my connection with Mr. Anthon?" 
               "Yes, yes! Forgive me Gus, if an unworthy suspicion ever crossed my mind for an instant!" 
               "Oh 'twas, 'tis nothing, Dennison-be assured that I'm all right; now here at this corner we part until morning!" 
               "Yes, good night-meet me at my lodgings at ten, for our visit 
                     to to
                     to
                   our two little goddesses!" 
               "Ten shall be the hour. Au revoir!" 
               Thus, for the night the two young men separated. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               AUGUSTUS VANROY stood once more in his own room, and before him stood Laura, her whom I described in the eleventh chapter, his Heaven-wedded wife. 
               Tell me not, that no marriage is binding save that which by some hollow-headed hireling in sacerdotal garb is performed, or that by some official who only knows his duty by the fee it allows, is done. That words uttered by one of these, and vows made before witnesses who an hour thence may be stricken down with death, alone render a marriage legal in the sight of GOD and unto HIM acceptable! 
               The vows made when a loving, confiding woman unto a man vows like her to be forever true and faithful, are as binding in the eye of God, as those uttered before a multitude, for HE is the witness, HE who is ALL JUST-ALL POWERFUL! 
               It is true that Augustus Vanroy was not married to Laura according to the form prescribed by men, yet not the less was she his wife in the sight of God. There in its little crib lay the sweet pledge which the Almighty had given them as a proof of their marriage-their innocent, beautiful boy. And base, inhumanly heartless would be he who would disown so binding a wedlock, desert so good a wife, so fair a child! Yet to do both of these did Augustus Vanroy seek. 
               As I said (when I commenced this chapter.) he stood before Laura. The letter was in his hand. He was pale as a drift of snow. She was calm, as calm as the child which lay asleep in its crib near where she was standing. He, too, was calm, but unnaturally so; like the atmosphere just before a heavy storm breaks forth. 
               "Laura, did you write this letter?" he asked in a low tone, almost hoarse from his endeavor to choke his anger. 
               "Yes, and delivered it, Gus!" 
               "Fiends of hell! You acknowledge it then!" 
               "I do!" 
               "What did you mean by it? Why have you thus trampled upon my nearest interests?" 
               "Not because I loved you, Gus! That lone, by your neglect and cruelty, has been almost crushed in my heart. I did it for my child's sake-for the sake of that child which never had been born had you not promised to make it legitimate!" 
               "Curse the -" 
               "Stop-stop Augustus Vanroy! You may curse me, but you shall not curse our offspring! I have watched you for weeks, and I know all. I not only know that you are trying to deceive and rob a good old man of his fortune, but also that you are trying to marry, and have already like a villain-nay frown not I mean it; like a villain won the love of a warm-hearted young girl whom you intend to marry that you may get with her a fortune. I have watched with vigilance, and I know all!" 
               The manner of the skilful libertine changed. A blush suffused his cheek. His eyes were down-cast. Her words seemed to have an impression on him. He sat down and covered his face with his hands. His frame seemed to quiver with agitation.-Soon with a voice low and gentle, almost in a sobbing tone, he said: 
               "Laura, you are right, I have done wrong I do not ask you to forgive me, but I will sacrifice all to make you happy; this very night we will leave Boston. I will fly from her, from him, from all temptation-live only for our child and you!" 
               Long and earnestly did the woman scan his features before she spoke. He looked as earnestly as he spoke, but one who has been once deceived doubts forever there-after. 
               "You do not mean what you say, Gus!" she said mournfully. "Once I would as soon have doubted a minister from the pulpit, or disbelieved my own eyes as doubt the smallest word you uttered-now I cannot believe you. Oh Gus, how you have altered since-since the time you loved me!" 
               Tears started in her eyes when she said this. 
               "Dear Laura!" said Vanroy, "I love you still; ambition has led me astray. I wanted to be rich, to be an aristocrat, to shine brighter than the brightest, stand higher than the highest, prouder than the haughtiest of them all. In my ambition I forgot you-" 
               "And that poor child. Your boy, Gus, your boy-my beautiful baby!" 
               She bent over the crib and kissed the bud ding lips of the sleeping cherub The scalding tears which fell upon its rose-leaf cheek awakened it. Opening its blue eyes, it looked wonderingly around for an instant, but when it recognised its father, it looked as a child only can look when its young heart inhales the first perfume of natural affection, and lisped: 
               "Papa, tum tiss Frankey!" 
               That father did go and kiss Frankey.-He who could have refused it would have been less than human, more than fiend.-And there by the little bed of their only babe knelt those two parents. But oh how different were their hearts. The woman, who according to the creed of the world. was a lost and irredeemable sinner, one to be despised and shunned by her sex, an out-east from society, forbidden even the chance to repent, was regarding her child with a holy, yearning, undying love; she was ready to extend the christian hand of forgiveness to him wha had wronged her so deeply; she was as true to him as e'er a wife was to her lord, who had been 
                     wededd
                     wedded
                   in the lordliest pile ever erected for worship in the land. 
               And he, who even there was shedding hypocrite tears-who had plotted and effected her ruin-who was then framing in his mind a plan to rid himself of her forever, by the same creed of the world, was admissible to society, even when it knew his crimes, "faults" the world creed-calls them. 
               
                  Curse such a creed! Oh if I had not some to love who love me because I to them am linked in kindred, whose blood circles through my veins, a dear father, mother and sister, I'd fly as fast as steam and wind and all else could carry me to a purer society-that of the Wild Red Warriors of the West, who living by Nature's laws, live purer, better, nobler lives than any member of the society which is governed by the world-creed. There they require no prisons, have no poor-houses. There a liar is so seldom seen that they know not what kind of a beast he is. The world-creed has made an Indian of me in heart. I often wish I was one by birth, for I hate the "Pale Faces." 
               But forgive my digression. 
               When Laura observed Vanroy's tears, her heart seemed to yield to its unbelief. 
               "Do not weep, dear Augustus," she said, "I did not mean to hurt your feelings.-You know I would die for you. You said you would go from this place with me!" 
               "Yes, to-night, now-the sooner I fly from temptation the better," he replied. 
               "Where will we go to!" 
               "I'll order a carriage and we'll drive out to a small village near the Worcester Road, where at a hotel we can remain till I close my partnership with Anthon and make the necessary preparations, then we will start for the West or South and find a home in which it will be our only pleasure to live to make each other happy-some secluded home, where none may enter to cloud our joy, where temptation way never appear!" 
               "Will you do this Gus?" 
               "Yes, by our child I swear I will!" 
               O how radiantly beamed out the glow of happiness on that mother's face as she heard his words. How burningly warm with pure affection were the kisses which she showered like handfull's of passion-flowers on his lips, his brow, his eyes, his cheeks. Laura was happy once more! Oh woe-woe to the wretch who could awaken a trusting woman from such a dream. 
               He 
                     returnd
                     returned
                   her kisses, but while hers were warm and unnumbered, his were cold and measured by penny-weights. 
               "I will go and see if I can get a 
                     carringe
                     carriage
                  ," he said, "for we leave Boston within an hour!" 
               "I'll pack the things, and dress our sweet boy!" 
               "Franky go da-da?" asked the child. 
               "Yes, Mama and Papa will take Frankey to ride!" said the fond mother kissing the beautiful boy whose face was like its 
                     moth-ther's
                     mother's
                   lit with the glow of pleasure. 
               Vanroy left the house, and she at once prepared for the midnight journey. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               WHEN Vanroy left the hotel, he hastened to a house in Ann street. It bore a dingy aspect outside and a sign at the door announced that money was loaned there on deposit; otherwise meaning, that it was a regular pawnbroker's shop. 
               The door was closed and the window-shutters also. Vanroy knocked at the door. At first no answer was returned. He then knocked more heavy and impatiently. A window opened in the second story, a head was popped out and a shrill, querulous voice asked: 
               "Who ish dat-vat you wants?" 
                
               "A friend who wants to see Ishmael Grypesdyte!" 
               "Dat ish me, but I'ave got no frents-go away you dish night, den comes to-morrow morning if you vants to see me!" 
               Down went the window. 
               "Curse the infernal Dutch Jew, I must have him out-he is the only one that can carry me through this scrape?" cried Vanroy as with renewed energy he recommenced "knocking at the door." 
               Up went the window once more and out came the head of the bearded Ishmael. 
               "Tousand duyvels! I tell you come tomorrow-what you want's?" 
               "I have a message from Tullius Catlin, for you!" 
               The name seemed to sound like magic on the Hebrew's ears. 
               "Dullius Gatlin, eh mine coot frent?" 
               "Yes- open the door quick, I'm in a hurry!" 
               "Oh den, I come down soon ash directly, quick like one gat!" 
               In a few moments the door was opened and Vanroy entered the house. After locking the door behind him the Jew turned and examined his visitor closely by the light of the tallow candle which he held in his hand. 
               A strange looking creature was Ishmael. A diminutive body, lean and dried up, was capped by a very large head which was bald and shone like one of the polished skulls in Fowler's window. His little black eyes peered out from under a cliff of grey eyebrows-his features were as Jewish as Iscariot's, the skin of his face looked like a piece of smoked parchment, shrivelled into wrinkles by the fire. His dress was shabby and dirty. 
               "So, Mishter-you pe come from Dullius Gatlin, eh? vat vants my coot frent?" 
               "He wants nothing, I want something, he told me if ever I needed aid, to come to you, say but the word 'Hagar' and you would help me!" 
               The Jew started at the mention of the name, but replied: 
               "Yesh, dat ish a coot word-I suppose you need monish. Dat I lends on coot security!" 
               "No, I do not want money, I've more now than I know what to do with! I want your assistance and I'm willing to pay for it, roundly too!" 
               The Jew's eyes snapped as he heard pay spoken of. 
               "Vat can I do for you, Mishter?" 
               "First I want a carriage and a driver who can be depended on to keep a secret!" 
               "Dat can I get. Mine frent Cleeson keep a coot one and trives for himself-he ish one of us!" 
               "Then I want to know where I can put a woman and child away for a day or two, till we can arrange matters to get them out of the country, or out of my way in some manner. Some family on whom we can depend. or some tavern in the country, where they will tell her all I want them to tell her and no more, and keep a watch that she don't get off while I'm away!" 
               "You ish in trouble mit dis woman? Yesh, I see-but you tell me everytings, den I shall know vat I shall dink it is petter to do!" 
               "Well to be brief, for I'm in a hurry, the woman is my mistress. I have a marriage in view with a wealthy lady, I am in a fair way to get very rich, but she is jealous, thwarts me, and if I don't get her out of the way she'll break off my marriage and ruin me!" 
               "Yesh, I see! Let me tink one moments! Um-s'phose you have her lock up in one nice little country seat. dat I 'ave got, apout ten miles from de city, eh- We can keep her dare till you get married, den she may not trouble you no more!" 
               "Will she be secure?" 
               "De same as my monish, in mine safe!" 
               "I do not want her ill treated!" 
               "Oh no-no, everybody knows old Ishmael has de coot heart? But what you give, eh?" 
               "Five hundred dollars down when the carriage is ready, five hundred more when I am assured that she is safely housed-twenty-five dollars a week while she is kept there, and if you can get her abroad to Europe or elsewhere, so that I never shall see her or the child again, I will pay $5000 down on the day of my marriage!" 
               "Dat I will agree to!" said the Jew, after studying a moment-"Yesh, dat will agree to, Mishter! But you did not tell me your name Mishter-vat security I can have-de security ish de ting, de security!" 
               "Here is your security!" said Vanroy, handing him five one hundred dollar notes-"My name is Augustus Vanroy-I am a partner with Anthon the shipping merchant. I ask no security from you, for I am secure in my knowledge that you are a receiver of stolen goods, keep a 'fence' for 'cross-men' and have now got most of the swag of the Dorchester bank robbery stowed away safe till it can be used. Now don't go into fits, friend Ishmael, I only tell you this to show you what I know. I don't use my knowledge to ask a favor, I'm willing to pay my way!" 
               "Mein Cot in himmels! Vat a mans you ish, Mishter Vanroy! Well den, I likes you petter now ash pefore! I vil do dish tings for you; yesh, I vil do dem up! Come mit me, me vil get de carriage-I vil go mit you mineself! But wait till I call mine washman. Squinterduybel! Squinterduybel! You tam lazy tog, for not why you hear!" 
               No answer being given to this appeal to his watchman, the Jew went to a corner where a pile of old quilts and rags appeared to be heaped, and gave the mass a kick.-Something moved, then something appeared. If it was human, it would have been no sin to bow down to it, for neither graven image, or thing above the earth or beneath it, ever resembled the creature that with a grunt, got up from its nest. 
               It had legs-very short ones-both turned out at the knees into an angle; arms, long enough to reach to its feet; a body broader than it was long, with a flesh knapsack on the back, and a head bigger than the body, hump and all thrown in. It had two eyes, and it seemed as if they loved each other, for they looked directly at one another and kept no "look-out ahead."-Hair it also had, red as fire, coarse as hogs bristles, like them sticking out every way they pleased. 
               Its face was ashy pale, its features coarse and repulsive. To add to its ugliness, it was clothed in filthy rags, the cast off garments of a beggar, one would suppose. It hobbled or shuffled up to its master, and grunted out: 
               "What you want?" 
               "I want you to sleep mit poth your eyes open till I come pack!" replied Ishmael. "Let nobody comes mit in de door." 
               "Yesh!" said the creature, (man nor boy I can't conscientiously call him.) "Yesh reisther Ishmael, Squinterduybel knows dat." 
               The Hebrew put on a rough over-coat and sallied forth with Vanroy, leaving his place under the guard of his hideous Caliban. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               IT was morning once more. Vanroy was in the counting room as usual at nine. But he looked pale and jaded-his eyes were red, and the swollen semi-circles beneath them showed that he had not slept the night before. 
               "Are you not well this morning?" asked Mr. Anthon, noticing the appearance of his young partner. 
               "Not very; I could not sleep last night, I kept thinking of that infamous letter.-Here it is-I can trace no resemblance to the handwriting among my correspondence, nor can I imagine who should wish to so cruelly wrong me." 
               "It is strange-very strange! If a woman hadn't brought it I should believe it to be some hoax merely got up to annoy us both." 
               "So I yet think it is. But the best way to test it and to clear me from this base yet baseless charge is to write to the person as directed in the letter. Ask an interview, and let me be present at it, if indeed one is granted." 
               "You are right, my young friend, you are right, and this willingness to meet the test, and anxiety to have the matter looked into is my best guarantee that you are innocent of the charge. In fact I would not press the matter any further but it is my duty as the temporary guardian of my young protegees. Their father looks to me for their safety while they are under my roof, and he is a dear friend of mine. I can see that Lydia loves you-" 
               "And dearly do I love her!" 
               "I believe you do, Augustus, and I hope you will both be happy, very happy. I think as much of the girls as if they were my own daughters." 
               "They are both noble girls. By the way if there is nothing particular for me to do this morning, I should like to call with my friend Dennison to apologise for my sudden departure last night!" 
               "Certainly, my boy, certainly do so. I can get along with the business with the aid of the book-keeper; our mail is light this morning, only three or four letters to answer. But be in as soon as you can, I want to be on 'Change to day at twelve. I heard a hint yesterday that some stock which I want would be in market." 
               "I'll not be gone more than an hour and a half," said Vanroy as he left. 
               "What a nice young man," murmured Anthon as he watched the 
                     receeding
                     receding
                   form of his partner. 
               Yes, one of THE "nice young men" was Mr. Augustus Vanroy. 
               When, according to his appointment, Vanroy met Dennison, the latter as usual received him with manly cordiality. 
               "What news, this morning, Gus?" he asked. 
               "Nothing particular, only I've been up all night, and feel like a singed cat this morning. I travelled over twenty miles between the time we parted last night and daylight this morning." 
               "The deuce, you say! Why what have you been about?" 
               "Getting that woman off into the country. She consented to go last night, and for fear she'd change her mind, I concluded to take her while she was in the humor!" 
               "So then all is settled now?" 
               "Yes, I am safe-I advised Mr. Anthon to write to his 
                     annonymous
                     anonymous
                   correspondent. Of course he'll get no answer, the matter will be considered a hoax, and all will blow over. The girls will never know anything about it. Now if you'll wait till I can make a barber renovate my outward appearance, I'm at your service for that visit." 
               "I'll remain in the reading room till you return." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               "I'VE brought something home to show you, my sweet wife," said Charles Brennon on the evening of the day on which he was permitted to draw a prize in the lottery. 
               "What is it, dear Charles!" said the lady smiling as only fond woman can smile. 
               "Look at these," he answered, exhibiting a case of jewels. 
               "Oh goodness, how brilliant, how beautiful!" she cried. "Why they are diamonds!" 
               "Certainly-is it not a magnificent set. Ear-rings, a bracelet, a finger ring worth alone $500, a necklace of pearl, emerald, turquoise and diamond interspersed, and a pin-the whole set is valued at $5000!" 
               "Indeed! How brilliant will the lady that wears them appear when at a ball or evening party, she appears in a well lighted room!" 
               "She will indeed. She is very beautiful, but these ornaments will add to her beauty, queenly as she now is." 
               "Do I know her?" 
               "Yes, quite intimately. You and her were school-girls together-she is married, and is one of the best of wives." 
               "Who can it be? Do tell me Charles!" 
                
               "I thought you said you had no curiosity, the other day, love." 
               "Well, in this case I acknowledge an exception." 
               "Will you get angry if I tell you that this lady loves me very much?" 
               "No, but I won t believe you." 
               "That she kissed me this very morning." 
               "Charles!" 
               "That I kissed her back, and told her that I loved her." 
               "Charles this a cruel jest-you are only trying to tease me." 
               "I was never more serious in my life, Mary-it is true-but now, now don't let a tear fill your eyes. I'll show you the lady's portrait, if you won't cry!" 
               "Well show it to me, I want to see her." 
               Mrs. Brennon's voice was not quite so kind and sweet as usual when she said this, and her face did not wear its ever-radiant hue of gladness. But when her husband led her before the mirror and pointing to her the reflection of her own beautiful face, and kissing her fondly said, "that is the lady who kissed me, whom I kissed in return, and whom I love;" she could not help smiling. 
               "You cruel rogue," she said, "I didn't know what to make of you, you acted so seriously. But the jewels, who do they belong to?" 
               "To you, my own dear wife." 
               "To me, Charles? Surely father cannot have made me such a present?" 
               "No, he has never seen them. I bought them for you." 
               "You, Charles? Why where on earth did you get the money? You surely have not gone in debt to make me such a costly and unnecessary gift?" 
               "No, I paid cash for them?" 
               "Charles, please explain. There is some mystery in this." 
               "None at all dear Mary-you remember the lottery tickets?" 
               "Yes and they-" 
               "Drew a prize of ten thousand dollars for me. I have used a part of this money to buy these jewels which will so become you.'" 
               "I shall never wear them, Charles," she replied in a subdued, sad, but firm tone. 
               "Never wear them, Mary? Why but now you admired them so much, and seemed to envy the lady who was to possess them." 
               "I did, do still admire them; they are very beautiful, but I repeat my husband, that I can never wear them." 
               "Why, dear Mary?" 
               "Because they have been purchased by the proceeds of a wrong, an illegal speculation. I would not dare to look father in the face when I wore these." 
               "But he need never know that they were the proceeds of a prize in the lottery." 
               "He knows, Charles, the precise amount of your salary-he also knows that you have no other means. How could you ac count for so rich, so extravagant a purchase?" 
               "Why tell him a distant relative has died and left me money. I mean to invest the rest in the business of the house if he will let me." 
               "Charles, would you stoop to utter a falsehood?" 
               "Not exactly a wilful falsehood, my dear wife, but this would not be such. It is only a harmless deceit, a white fib, you know." 
               "I know no difference in untruths, Charles. All are black to me. You know how I abhor deceit. You have changed if you do not." 
               "I am not changed, Mary; but I have this money. Fortune has smiled upon me and it would seem wrong to scorn favors so seldom bestowed." 
               "I wish she had frowned, rather than smiled upon you, Charles-I would rather share a cot in poverty with you and labor by your side, than live in a palace on means gained by such a way as this was. Charles, cannot you return the money?" 
               "Not when more than half of it is spent to buy for you this present!" 
               "Will they not take back the jewels and refund the money?" 
               "No, dear Mary-it is a maxim in trade never to retract or back out from a good bargain. They have the cash for the gems and will keep it. Now dearest, promise me that you will wear them!" 
               "On but one condition, Charles!" 
               "What is that?" 
               "That you go to my father and confess to him what you have done, and that he consents to my retaining them!" 
               "Impossible, dear Mary-he would be angry, I should lose his confidence, perhaps my situation, at least my chance of a partnership in the concern!" 
               "No, father is too kind-hearted to do that. While he condemns a fault, he is ever ready to forgive it!" 
               Brennon was about to reply, but ere he could do so, Mr. Brent who using a familiarity excusable in a father-in-law, had entered the front door, without knocking, come into the room. 
               Charles would have closed or removed the jewel case, but he had no time to do so. Mr. Brent's eye fell upon them as they lay open on the table. 
               "Hey day, what have you got here. children?" he said. "Why on my word they're brilliants! who do these costly gew-gaws belong to?" 
               Brennon was about to speak, but his wife pure as she was beautiful, and sensitive to his honor, spoke first. 
               "My kind husband is trying to persuade me to accept them dear, father!" 
               "Poh-poh-he cannot afford such presents. Why these jewels are worth more than a year's salary-yes two of 'em!" he added, as he again examined them. "He could never pay for them in the world, and Charles you know how often I've cautioned you not to go in debt!" 
               "But father, these are already paid for. I got them for my Mary, not to add to her beauty, but to let the world see she has a husband who loves her and who does not wish to see her outrivalled in splendor by any lady in the land!" 
               "Paid for them!" said the old gentleman, keenly scrutinizing the countenance of his son-in-law. "Paid for them-Charles, how much did they cost?" 
               "Five thousand dollars, Sir!" 
               "And pray where did you get five thousand dollars?" 
               The old gentleman's brow clouded as he asked the question. Perchance suspicions of broken trust flashed through his brain. 
               "Dear father, I will explain!" said the young wife. 
               "No, Mary, mine has been the wrong, let me also suffer the humiliation of making the explanation!" said Charles, blushing as red as carnation. 
               "The wrong? why what on earth have you been doing?" 
               "Father, I bought a lottery ticket and it drew a ten thousand dollar prize!" 
               "A lottery ticket! Charles Brennon, have I not often told you that lottery and policy dealing was the most dangerous kind of gambling, that it was delusive yet tempting, that it drew its victims on with pleasant hopes till it got them entangled in ruin's net, whence they can never extricate themselves?" 
               "You have, father, but on this occasion I was sorely tempted-I wanted to make my Mary a bridal present worthy of her, and for a few shillings, I have been enabled to do so, and have now nearly four thousand dollars in hand which I thought would be useful in your business, especially as even Wall street now groans under a pressure for money!" 
               "Never a cent of money so gained should go into my business, Sir!" said the old man sternly. 
               "Dear father,"-and a soft hand was gently laid upon his arm, and a pair of tearful blue eyes looked up into his, and a pair of ruby lips quivered over their pearly petals, like the leaves of the red-rose in the morning breeze-"Dear Father forgive him. It is his first offence. I know it will be his last!" 
               "How do you know that? It is a temptation which grows on men-my daughter!" said the father as he tenderly kissed the forehead of his sweet good child. 
               "I know it father, because he has already" promised, yes sworn it shall be his last error. Father see how bad he feels, forgive him or you will break my heart!" 
               She bursts into tears as she said this, and while she twined her arms around his neck, the hot rain of grief fell in large drops upon his neck. Charles Brennon also wept. The father's stern nature melted before this as snow melts when spring shower falls upon it. His own eyes were moist, and his voice trembled when he replied to her tenderly passionate appeal. Nature triumphed over his sense of justice, duty yielded to feeling. 
               "I will forgive him for your sake, my child, on condition that he never purchases another; if he does, from that moment he enters my store no more, nor will I regard him as a son. As to the ill-gotten money which he yet retains, let him expend it in charity, as an expiation for his fault, and you my angel child shall direct him how to disburse it!" 
               "Dear Father I thank you for his sake and mine!" said the daughter, and smiles came out radiantly upon her peerless face, as the sun through a shower shines sometimes upon a field of flowers. 
               "And I will sin no more, Sir! Believe me this is my first fault-do not let it destroy your confidence in me!" 
               "It shall not, Charles, because you have so candidly acknowledged your fault. Had you concealed it, or tried to deceive me, I should never have forgotten it!" 
               Mary did not say it, but she looked the words "You see I was right, Charles." 
               Though all thus had been amicably settled, there seemed to be a gloom hanging over the little family circle, and in a short time Mr. Brennon left the house. 
               "Ten thousand dollars!" he muttered to himself, musingly as he walked towards the ferry-"ten thousand dollars. Charles made a lucky hit-ten thousand dollars at an expenditure of only a few shillings. It is indeed enough to tempt any man. Much as I know of its evils, of the fatality of such temptations, it almost sets me into the fever. Ten thousand dollars-and he did it only that he might make a bridal present to Mary. He loves her, is a good husband, I'll raise his salary $500 tomorrow, if he keeps right for three months. I'll make him a full partner. And he offered to throw the rest of his money in my business. I guess I'd better take him up-these charity Asylums are all rich enough-Yes I'll have a talk with him in the morning Ten thousand dollars! What a lucky hit!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               ANOTHER week has passed in our story Let us see what changes time has worked. First we will pay a visit to the rooms of Mr. Tullius Catlin. He is not there-but Constance Morley is. Is she altered? Yes.-. Her cheeks glow with a rosier, healthier hue. The sallow pallor produced by her constant labor as she bent over her sewing work, has vanished. The eyes red and dim by late work by a glimmering candle, are bright and clear as drops of ocean-water sparkling in a seashell's rosy bosom. She has had time to arrange her glossy hair. Her dress, though still plain, is more neat and richer than that she wore before. And look, as she sits at the writing table, a diamond ring glitters upon a finger of the hand in which she holds her pen. She has paused in her writing and seems to be regarding the jewelled circlet of gold intently. Hark-she speaks. Let us listen to her thoughts. 
               "He must love me," she murmurs. "His never-varying kindness, this costly present, so delicately given too, all go to prove it. I-(she sighed softly as she spoke)-I do not love him, but he seems so sad and lonely that I pity him. I wish I could make him happy! He ought to be happy-he seems so good, he has every luxury that boundless wealth can command, it is strange that he should be unhappy!" 
               She had not heard a noiseless step which approached over the heavy Brussels car. pet-she did not know that the words audibly uttered in her revery had been overheard and that too by him of whom she was speaking. Therefore it was that she started almost to her feet and blushed to her very brow as she heard him in a low sad tone say: 
               "Why is it so strange, Miss Constance, that I who am alone in a world which is made up of deceit and hypocrisy, should be unhappy?" 
               "I did not know that you were near me, Sir!" said Constance, so confused and agitated that she could scarcely speak! 
               "I did not intend to be a listener, fair lady, but my ear is quick to catch the sweet sounds of sympathy-I heard enough to convince me that you were speaking of me. I could not interrupt you!" 
               "Oh sir, I was only thanking you in my heart for this beautiful ring-but it is too rich a gift, for a poor girl like me, to wear!" 
               "Poor, Miss Morley? Oh that all your sex were rich as you are-rich alone in your purity of heart, your goodness, your noble nature? All the gold in California cannot gild defects, cannot brighten or restore the lustre of tarnished virtue-cannot make a heartless woman lovely. You are rich-rich enough to awaken envy in many a city belle who gazes on your loveliness; rich enough in your goodness and innocence to win and deserve the worshipping love of the noblest in our land!" 
               "Oh Mr. Catlin, this is flattery!" 
               "No, Constance; excuse me, Miss Morley, I mean-I never stoop to flattery. You have already seen enough of me to know that candor is a part of my nature!" 
               "I acknowledge that, Sir-but I do not feel myself worthy of so great a compliment as that which you have paid me!" 
               "The meritorious are always modest! I have watched you closely-each day has made me more sensible of your merit. But I will not intrude on you any further just now, for I have business, and you have several letters to answer for me!" 
               After Catlin left, did she at once hasten to write those letters? No! She still gazed on the glittering ring which bound her finger, gazed upon it as we can imagine Eve gazed on the forbidden fruit-and with a sigh she murmured: 
               "I am sure he loves me! But I do not love him, I only pity him because he is sad and lonely!" 
               Poor girl she did not know her own heart. Nor did she dream what an arch-fiend, what a consummate hypocrite, what a vice-baptised, sin-soaked villain her supposed benefactor was. 
               What did he say after he left her? Chuck ling in his devilish glee, he muttered, "I've got her fast now. The bait is taken. It is but one step from sympathy to love, and gratitude has lifted her over that. She is safe. In a few days I shall be revenged for the insult her father gave me-I shall revel in bliss which would tempt a saint to for swear his hopes of heaven, and shall add another to my list of victories, another to my roll of victims. Yes, Constance Morley, you soon shall be mine, soul and body!" 
               Thus ends one chapter of a week of Time's rapid change in our story. Now for a glance at the same week's work elsewhere among our Dramatis person. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               CATLIN and Grab were seated in the office of the latter. Grab as usual, occupied two chairs-the smoke of one of Springsteel's prime native made Habana's curled up from his lips, and he looked as satisfied as if all his gold had not been washed in the tears of countless victims to his thieving arts. 
               "We've made a good week's work, netted about $60,000, clear of expenses!" he said. 
               "Pretty fair, rather above middling!" said Catlin, "but we've got matters in a line which will treble our profits. Who do you think I saw buying a ticket in James, back office this morning-a wealthy merchant, who till now has been down on us tremendously, one of our bitterest opposers!" 
               "I don't know who it can be?" 
               "Guess!" 
               "For the life of me I cannot. I expect it is some old codger that you have roped in!" 
               "No-he has roped himself in! What do you think of Mr. Brent?" 
               "What, Charles Brennon's father-in-law?" 
               "The self-same individual!" 
               "Why I thought he was so opposed to it that we had to let Brennon win a prize to keep him in hand!" 
               "Yes, and so it was, but I've an idea that our letting Charley Brennon draw a prize has had something to do with this matter. I've not seen Charley yet, to find out, but I can almost account for the sudden conversion of the old gent. He sneaked in as if he felt afraid some one would know he didn't go there for exchange." 
               "Well, it is singular-you said well, I think, when you told me that the prize wouldn't be lost on Brennon!" 
               "I wouldn't be surprised if we made fifty or sixty thousand dollars out of them now. They are both hooked. James has the number of the ticket which the old man bought, checked, and we're going to let him draw a small prize first to fasten the hook in his gills. These merchants are so used to large speculations, that when we get them once into the humor, they don't know where to stop!" 
               "That's a fact. By the way, Tullius, have you heard from Vanroy, lately?" 
               "Yes. I received a letter this morning!" 
               "How is he getting on?" 
               "Famously! He has got two of the best Boston hotel keepers to act as private agents for us-has got a dozen young bucks of the ton who have more money than brains, to try their luck; and three or four clerks in big houses to do the same. He has got the cashier of a bank in State street to try his hand. I shall be sure that he draws a good prize right on the start!" 
               "Well, act on your own judgment-you have a carte blanche, 
                     ou
                     you
                   know! How is Vanroy getting on in the matrimonial speculation you told me of?" 
               "It is all in a fair way, but a woman came near spoiling his chance there!" 
               "How?" 
               "Well, through jealousy. Gus, for sometime had been keeping her as the Mormons do, as a spiritual wife-he was not legally married to her and tried to cast her off, so that he would be free to court and marry the young heiress he is after The woman found out his plans, and wrote to old Anthon, the partner of Gus, that he was married and had a baby!" 
               "How on earth did Gus get out of that?" 
               "Persuaded the old man that it was all a lie, got the woman off out of town, smoothed the matter over, and now all is as clear as day before him. Gus is a smart boy, an honor to our profession!" 
               "He isn't anything else! Is that Glendye matter all settled?" 
               "Yes, and Glendye is on his way to California; we must be more careful whom we choose for agents. This new law is cursed tight!" 
               "It would be if policemen, jurors, and judges could'nt be bribed? we are safe from the law as long as our golden spectacles can be worn on the nose of justice!" 
               "That is true!" replied Catlin, "and nearly all of our New York officials have weak eyes when there is a chance of getting gold spectacles to wear! If I had a hundred thousand to spare, I would not fear to commit every crime in the calendar, I could get clear as easy as a trout from a pin-hook. Money is all that a man wants to walk over the upper-crust with in New York." 
               "Yes, and we've got our share, but this cursed law forces us to disgorge too much of our winnings." 
               "Well, it can't be helped. Police officers and judges get small salaries and they must live, you know!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               WE now, in the course of the week's review of changes, will take a glance at the situation of Laura, the poor cast-off mistress of Vanroy. Deceived by the plausible villain, she had agreed to leave Boston, she was even happy when seated in the carriage by his side, holding her cherished child in her arms, she passed from Boston at the still midnight hour. She had not noticed that two men sat on the driver's box, nor did she even note the direction in which they started. In fact the last would have been nearly impossible. The night was dark and the blinds of the carriage were closed, as Vanroy kindly suggested to keep the cold night air from his darling child. 
               The carriage drove on quite rapidly for about two hours, perhaps a little more, and then drew up before a small stone 
                     hous
                     house
                   which was almost entirely shaded and hidden from the view of travellers on the road, by a grove of elms. The carriage door opened, and the little Jew pawn-broker who opened it said: 
               "We are here at mine leetle country seat, mishter Vanroy-you and your coot lady are varee welcome to make it your home so long ash you likes!" 
               "Who is that man?" asked Laura, in a whisper, as she clasped her sleeping boy in her arms and wound the shawl close around his tiny form, ready to step from the carriage. 
               "A friend-I'll tell you as soon as we get into the house!" 
               But half satisfied, dreading something, she knew not what, she entered the house. Passing through a gateway, she heard the gate swing heavily on its hinges, and thought she heard a key turned behind them. They had to pause, while Ishmael their guide, knocked at the door. Ishmael spoke in a tongue unknown to her and was in a moment or two, answered from within in a similar language. The door then opened and two persons appeared. The oldest, a dried-up looking old woman, quite meanly apparelled, held a light in her hand. Half shrinking behind her, as she observed strangers, stood a beautiful young girl, evidently of Jewish origin. She was probably fifteen or sixteen years of age, that sweet age when beauty is in its bud and like the opening rose is most lovely. As Ishmael stepped forward, he said to the elder woman. 
               "Repecca-I have brought some frents vich vill sojourn a leetle viles vith us!' Then turning to Laura and Vanroy he added. "Dish, mine coot frents is mine housh keeper and dere is mine taughter, Miriam! Come here Miriam, mine child-dish is Mishter and Mishtress Vanroy-you must make dem comfortable, you and Repecca vile they sthay mit us!" 
               "Yes, dear father!" said the young girl, coming forward and imprinting a kiss with her cherry-red lips upon his wrinkled brow. 
               The party passed on through a dark, chilly hall, and entered a room which contrasted strangely with the rough and gloomy appearance outside of the house. It was elegantly furnished. A glowing fire burned in the grate. Wealth had been lavishly expended in furniture, paintings and works of art. As soon as Vanroy and Laura were seated, the housekeeper asked if she should prepare some 
                     refreshnnent
                     refreshment
                   for them. This was declined. 
               "Oh what a dear, sweet little baby!" said Miriam, as the mother took the shawl and wrappers from around her child. And the Jewish maiden bent on one knee and kissed the sleeping cherub. 
               "I have one friend in this house, at least," thought Laura, as with a mother's pride she noticed the action. 
               "If your housekeeper will show my lady the room which she is to occupy, I will accompany them for a moment!" said Vanroy to Ishmael-"I have to return to the city to night!" 
               "To-night, Augustus?" 
               "Yes, love, that I may hurry through my business and be the sooner ready to go with you as we have arranged!" 
               "Then let me see you alone a few moments before you go. I have much to say to you!" 
               The old housekeeper took a light and led the way to a chamber, as neatly 
                     furuished
                     furnished
                   as the parlor they had just left. Placing the light on the centre table, she left them alone. 
               "Augustus!" said Laura, after she had laid her child down on the couch, and carefully covered it-"Augustus, are you not deceiving me in some way?" 
               "So help me Heaven, I'm not!" he replied. 
               "Then why is it that you did not take me to the tavern in a village near Worcester, that you spoke of?" 
               "Because after I went out I thought of this country seat which belongs to the old man we saw below. He is a friend to whom I had letters of introduction, an Exchange broker of immense wealth, and when I mentioned our case was but too happy to do me a favor!" 
               "If you go to the city again to-night, when will I see you again?" 
               "By the day after to-morrow, my love!" 
               "Will you then be ready to go South with me?" 
               'I hope so, Laura-I will arrange my business as hastily as possible!" 
               "Do, for this will be a gloomy place to me. I do not like the looks of that Jew, nor of his housekeeper. But his daughter seems to be a kind, amiable creature!" 
               "And no doubt she is. She will be pleasant company to you, and prevent you feeling lonesome!" 
               "Dear Gus, I would be lonesome in the company of angels if you were not there!" 
               "Well love-one good-night kiss, and then I must hasten back!" 
               "Oh do not go till morning, Gus!" 
               "I must my dear. I must be in the city very early!" 
               "Then go, God bless you-hurry back, I shall count the minutes till you come!" 
               A burning kiss and an embrace fond on one side but cold as hypocrisy on the other, and he was gone. The mother knelt by the bedside whereon her sleeping babe lay and prayed for him who was even then so basely deceiving her. 
               While Vanroy was conversing with Laura up stairs, Ishmael in another apartment was giving Rebecca her orders in regard to the prisoner. There were three in the room, and the third one was not Miriam. He was a huge, stupid looking man, who though he seemed to listen to the orders given, hardly seemed capable of understanding them The orders were to supply Laura with every comfort, but at all hazards to prevent her leaving the house or the enclosure which surrounded it. She was not to be informed that she was a prisoner, and he gave minute directions in regard to the excuses to be made to keep her within doors. As a last resort, he left some powders, which though they would not destroy life, would throw her on a sick-bed if taken with her food. Having concluded these directions he rejoined Vanroy and they at once re-entered the carriage. 
               "Have you arranged everything for her safe-keeping?" asked Vanroy as they drove off. 
               "Yesh Mister Vanroy-she is safe ash my monish, or ash mine own taughter'" 
               "Your daughter is very beautiful!" said Vanroy 
               "Yesh-so was her modder pefore her!" replied the Jew, sighing heavily. "Yesh Miriam is a coot gal, she knows nothing of the worlt and its padness, I never lets her go from de place at all!" 
               For some time they went along in silence, each occupied with their own thoughts. Ishmael was the first to speak. 
               "I dink you told me to-night Mister Vanroy dat if dish lady and der child is sent from de country so dat no more dey troubles you, you will give five thousand dollare de night dat you marry de rich gal, eh?" 
               "Yes, I said so and will do it!" 
               "Um-den I tinks a leetle whiles. I got some ver coot frents in Yarmany, some dat is high in der government, I tinks maybe if I can send her dere dey will never give her a passport to come back!" 
               "But no harm must befall her." 
               "Oh no, dere ish no tanger of dat. Everypody knows old Ishmael has coot heart!" 
               Again both sunk back into silence which was not again broken till they reached the city where Vanroy handed the Jew the second payment of five hundred dollars. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               READER, do you remember the grey-haired old gentleman, the descendant of a patrician line and the head of a lovely family, whom I described in the fourth chapter? A single circumstance will recall him to you. You remember his spending the money for tickets which his young daughter had given him to purchase articles of dress for the purpose of attending a ball. In that chapter I merely introduced you to the parlor of his house. I want now to have you take a look at the outside of the house and the grounds attached. It is an upper ward, in the aristocratic part of the city. It is a cottage, but it is beautifully shadowed by evergreen trees. The lot which is thrice the size of the usual town lots is laid out with shrubbery, and though it is winter it looks well, for most of the growth around the shelly walks is evergreen. The house is a picture of neatness; looks as if it was built for comfort, to enjoy life in-to combine the conveniences of a city residence with the luxuries of the country. You will soon see why I am thus particular in describing the place. But before I go further I will state that this cottage and beautiful plat of ground is all that is left of a large farm which once belonged to the ancestors of the family I have described. Lot by lot has been sold from it, and this little gem in the centre alone preserved. And now I may as well give a name to the family, not their real one for I respect members of it too much, and should not thus explicitly describe them were the characters not true, and the description necessary in the morale of this story. I will call them Montrose. 
               While the reader is mentally gazing on the cottage and grounds, he observes the cottage door open. Mr. Montrose appears on the threshold, and by his side appears the daughter I have described before. 
               "Good bye dear father!" she says, kissing him tenderly, "hurry back, we shall wait dinner for you!" 
               "Good morning, my Hettie!" he said and passed down the steps. He paused after she closed the door and looked back at the cottage. 
               "My God, it is hard," he murmured, "but I must mortgage the last remnant of my heritage. Grocer's bills unpaid, butchers and bakers dunning me, and I can't win a single prize in the lottery. I've spent all my salary, every cent I can borrow, and still no luck comes to me!" 
               He sighed and turned to walk down town. The time was when his carriage always bore him to and fro, but the Lottery dealers had swallowed that and the horses too. 
               An hour or so later he entered the same lottery dealer's office where we before saw him spend his daughter's money for lottery tickets. Passing behind the screen he was met by the smiling "exchange broker," who said, "Good morning, Mr. M., anything in the ticket line to-day-it's time you won a prize I think; bad luck don't run long!" 
               "Mine has run long enough!" replied Mr. Montrose, "but I did not call to purchase this morning, I merely called to enquire of you where I could find some liberal man, a gentleman, not one of your flint-hearted cent-per-cents, who would advance me a sum of money on the mortgage of as pretty a piece of real-estate as there is in the city!" 
               "I think I know the very man, if he can be induced to go into the matter. He is a Southern gentleman of immense wealth, fond of the excitement of speculation, caring very little for its profits I should think, judging from the way he showers gold around. If you wish, I'll give you a letter of introduction to him!" 
               "Do if you please-what is his name!" 
               "Tullius Catlin!" 
               "From the South, you said!" 
               "Yes Sir, from Carolina, a high toned thorough bred gentleman!" 
                
               With the letter of introduction in the same pocket-book which contained the title-deeds of his last available property, Mr. Montrose left the lottery shop where he had spent thousands upon thousands of dollars, to seek Mr. Catlin. 
               It is hardly necessary to say he found him. Such villains are always easily to be found when they can make anything; very hard to find if Justice calls for them. 
               When Mr. Montrose was ushered into the splendid apartments of Catlin, he was at once convinced that the owner was at least wealthy. And when met in a very polite manner by Mr. Catlin, he fancied that he had found a gentleman. His eye rested also on the fair girl who was employed at the writing table, and he thought she was almost as pretty as his Hettie. But business was uppermost in his mind, and he handed the letter of introduction to Catlin. 
               The latter glanced over it, and then remarked, "My friend states that you wish to make some arrangements in regard to real estate." 
               "I do, Sir-but had we not better he alone?" replied Mr. Montrose, glancing at Miss Morley. 
               "We are, Sir; that young lady is the daughter of an old friend of mine and is my private secretary, cognisant of course, of all my business transactions!" 
               "Ah! Then, Sir, I will state my business at once. I have a very valuable piece of real estate up town, and having need of some ready cash would like to raise a sum on mortgage for a short time!" 
               "Really, Sir, I very seldom enter into speculations of the kind, but as a favor to one who in bearing and manners seems so much a gentleman of the old school, I may invest the sum you require. But I should like to see the property!" 
               "That of course would be necessary, but as I do not wish to have my family know of the transaction, I would prefer the visit being made as unbusiness-like as possible. Suppose you come up and dine with me at live; a plain family dinner is all I can offer you-but I have some choice old wine!" 
               "Thank you-leave me your address and I will be there, Mr. Montrose!" 
               "Here is my card, Sir, I shall expect you!" 
               Mr. Montrose now left, attended to the door by Catlin, who was as obsequious in his manner as if he was asking rather than granting a favor. I need scarcely add that though the former knew him not, Catlin was well acquainted with Montrose's dealings and knew well where the money lent on that mortgage would ultimately go. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               "FIVE tousand dollars! Dat is much monish!" muttered Ishmael, as he sat in his dirty pawn-shop on the morning after he and Vanroy had taken Laura into the country. He was evidently thinking of the offer which Gus had made if Laura was removed from the country so that she would never trouble him again. "Five tousand dollars! um-now if dat tam old fool Hans Scratchdermast, was here, I tink maybe sometimes I could do sometings mit him! He has cot de coot ship, he is one tam care-for-nopoddy, py mine peard I wish he was here? Never when I wants somepody ish somepody apout. Dat rascal Squinterduybelish ashleep somewhere, I dinks! Der DUYVEL!" 
               The last exclamation of the Hebrew, was caused by the entrance of a man whose dress as well as his weather-beaten countenance, indicated that he was a sailor. He had a regular barnacle countenance, red as a flannel petticoat, with a beet like nose, two small grey eyes, and a bald head as shiny as the knuckle of a well-boiled close-picked beef-bone. In his mouth he held a short pipe which vomited smoke like the chimney of a locomotive. His dress was rough as himself. A shaggy pea-jacket. a pair of huge pilot-cloth trowsers tucked inside the legs of a pair of enormous sea-boots, and a tarpaulin "sou'wester," completed his rig. 
                
               "For what you spheak mit your friend der duyvel!" asked the mariner of Ishmael. 
               "Pecause, mine coot freut Captain Scratchdermast, I was yust den dinking of you!" 
               "And what you dinks of me, den, Ishmael?" 
               "Why, captain, dey say dat when you dinks of der duyvel und spheak his name, dat he is sure to come along. You see I was dinking of you, and yust have sphoke your name and der first ding I sees you!" 
               "Ah-is dat all!" 
               "Dat wash not all captain. I wash wishing to see you on pusiness. I wash dink how glad I shall pe if you wash in der port mit your coot ship!" 
               "Yes, I see-you want some more of der schnapps dat never see de Custom House, eh?" 
               "No-not for dat I dinks, dis time!" 
               "Den what for you dinks, eh? What you all wants mit me?" 
               "When shall you sail for to go pack mitover de water?" 
               "In apout a week I dinks! I cot a cargo all engaged!" 
               "Den if I pay you, you will do me a favor?" 
               "Yes-for der monish, I can do most eberydings for a frent!" 
               "Well den, I wants you to take a passenger, no two passenger, a woman mit her baby-poy! I pay you double price, and I pay more if she never come pack again!" 
               "What you have to do mit der woman and der baby-poy?'? 
               "Oh nothings, mineself, but one frent wants der woman mit-out of his way-she love him more as he loves her, and he loves anodder woman more as dis one!" 
               "Oh yes, I see. And how much passage you dink your frent will give, eh?" 
               "I dinks, if she come not pack again he'll give a tousand dollars!" 
               Tousand dollars. Um-den I dinks I shall see apout it! Is der woman willing for to go?" 
               "I dinks not much-put when you get her on der waters, you not care for dat, eh?" 
               "No, I dinks not. No, not much if she not make tam fool of herself und yump over-poard!" 
               "Den if she do dat, it is her pusiness, not yours, so long as you get der tousand dollars!" 
               "Dat is coot-yes dat is coot, Ishmael, und den she'll never come pack. You get der woman und der baby-poy in my cabin once und bring mit her der tousand dollars. und I'll make it all right mit her!" 
               "Dat ish a pargain, captain-now come in der pack room und we will have a trink of schnapps!" 
               Leaving the worthy dues to their schnapps. we will open another chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               CONSTANCE MORLEY was at her post, engaged in writing as usual. She had now been nearly two weeks in the employ of Mr. Catlin, who to her had ever been obsequiously polite. He seemed ever sad and low spirited. He required but very little labor at her hands. Her copying never occupied her more than an hour or so, yet her salary was very liberal. What wonder then, that in so short a time he should have awakened in her young heart a deep and a dangerous interest. Remember that she who had in her early youth known comfort and even affluence, had since then been steeped in poverty, that she had toiled early and late, by the dim light of the midnight taper and by the cheerless rays of the rising sun to earn the bare necessaries of life, and now by an apparently kind hand which seemed to ask no recompense except the power to do good, no reward which could raise a blush upon the cheek of virtue, she found herself independent and comfortable, able to support her only surviving parent in ease. Then wonder not, that all unknown to herself, gratitude had given way to a stronger feeling, that in the fulness of her young, passionate nature, she loved her supposed benefactor. 
                
               I said in the commencement of this chapter that she was as usual at her post. It was morning, nine or ten o'clock. At the same table, on the opposite side, Mr. Catlin was also engaged in writing. He laid down his pen after using it a short time, and sighed deeply. She raised her eyes-they met his, for he was gazing at her. His look was so sad that she could not help noticing it, could not refrain from speaking. 
               "Are you not well this morning, Mr. Catlin?" she asked. 
               "As well as usual. Miss Constance!" he replied, sighing again. 
               "You seem so sad, Mr. Catlin?" 
               "What have I to make me gay?" 
               "You have nothing to make you sad, Mr. Catlin. You possess wealth and wealth is power! Power used for good, as you use it, must be happiness. I almost envied you when I saw the gleam of grateful pleasure light up that old gentleman's countenance when you promised to assist him yesterday!" 
               "Yet happiness does not consist in wealth, fair lady. Wealth may in a measure conduce to it, but wealth cannot make a wintery world warm. It cannot restore foliage to the blasted tree, it cannot give life to the wilted flower. There is but one thing which can make a true heart happy!" 
               "And what is that, Mr. Catlin!" 
               "Love, Constance, LOVE! Love though it dwells in the narrow cell of a prison, or within the contracted bounds of a peasant's cot, will gild life, when gold clings like a leaden weight upon the heart and clogs the wheels of joy. How then can one all unloved like myself, be happy!" 
               "Oh Sir, you are not unloved!" 
               "Then as if conscious of having committed an unmaidenly impropriety both in the warmth of her tone and looks, the face of Constance became crimson with blushes. 
               Catlin observed, he saw he had struck the right chord, and he dared not let it die away for he might never recall the sound again. 
               "Not unloved?" he said-"Oh Constance if I could hope for love where I in secret have planted the seeds of my first affection, oh then, I could hope yet to be happy. Forgive me Constance, I can conceal it no longer, I love you-you only! From the hour when we first met, I have felt in my heart emotions to which it before was a stranger. I have gazed upon your beauty as the flower ever turning toward the sun drinks in its brightness. I have listened to the silvery tones of your voice and wished that you might speak forever. Oh Constance, is there a hope that my love will be returned. You can make me happy-you can make me miserable! My fate, my very life is in your hands! Oh speak, dearest, and end my suspense!" 
               While he made this passionate appeal, he drew near to her, suddenly he dropped on his knee at her feet and clasping her small white hands in his, looked up imploringly in her face, in her liquid eyes, awaiting, by his looks beseeching a reply. 
               She did not withdraw her hands-she bowed her head upon his shoulder and wept. She did not chide him when he kissed the tears from her cheek; she did not reprove him when his arm stole around her slender waist; she did not frown when bolder still he planted burning kisses on her red lips. Though she spoke not, he was answered. 
               When he again more calmly seated himself by her side, he took her hand in his and said: 
               "Dear Constance, the world is no longer a wilderness to me, I am happy!" 
               "If I can make you happy, then I shall be happy!" she murmured. 
               Then as reason resumed its sway, as she emerged from the confusion into which his sudden and vehement declaration had thrown her, Constance began to feel the inequality of Catlin's circumstances and her own. 
               "Why should you, who are wealthy, graced in form and strong in intellect, love a penniless girl like me!" she said. "You can win and wear the brightest, richest jewel in the land! For your own sake forget poor Constance, seek some beautiful heiress, some mace more worthy of you!" 
               "Sooner would I seek a bride within the tomb than look for another than thee!" he replied. 
               "Oh Constance, till now I have concealed the love which has been burning like a quenchless fire in my breast. 
               
                   
                     'The cold in clime are cold in blood, 
                     Their love can scarce deserve the name; 
                     But MINE is like the lava flood 
                     Which burns in Etna's breast of flame.' 
                  
                
               I think not of wealth-your worth in goodness, in purity, in affection, in beauty, outweighs all the gold on earth. The only jewels I ask, are your eyes, brightened with the holy dew of love!" 
               Again he clasped her to his breast. Again his hot lips were glewed to hers. Her heaving bosom, her trembling form, her flushed cheeks, her eyes languidly brilliant, like violets overladened with dew, her short-drawn sighs, betokened her feelings, feelings new to her, emotions as strange as they were 
                     indiscribable
                     indescribable
                  . The first feelings of a young heart bursting from the bud into the blossom in the tropical atmosphere of love, must be realized to be known. The poet's pen is too cold to paint them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               CHARLES BRENNON entered the counting room of Mr. Brent one morning some three or four days after the "blow up" about the lottery tickets, as described in the twenty-fourth chapter, and was pleased to find his father-in-law wearing an unusually pleasant smile on his countenance. 
               "Charley!" said Mr. Brent, "I've been thinking over the matter in regard to the investment of the surplus cash you have on hand, I believe it would be folly to give is to these so-called charitable institutions, one half of which are stock-jobbing and speculating swindles. If you choose you can put it in our concern, and on the first of the year if every thing progresses favorably, I'll take you into partnership." 
               "Sir, you really are too good!" 
               "Tut-tut, not a bit. You've always been a good clerk, Charley; you'll make a good partner. You are a good son and husband, I've never caught you in but one error and that-is forgotten as well as forgiven. By the way, Charley, let me see that watch of yours, it is rather a cheap affair!" 
               "Oh no, sir-it was a present from you, it cost one hundred and fifty dollars, I remember!" 
               "Yet it is too cheap for a man to wear whose wife wears a five thousand dollar set of jewelry!" 
               "Oh no, sir. I think not!" 
               "Yet I choose to think otherwise. Take that off and keep it for your oldest boy, if ever you and Mary have one. Here is one which I gave three hundred and fifty for; a double cased, full jeweled independent movement, repeating chronometer. Accept it, 
                     Charely
                     Charley
                  , and wear it for my sake!" 
               "I will sir, and gratefully! you are too good!" 
               "Poh-poh! no words, Charley. By the way, we've got a heavy note to pay on the last lot of flour we shipped to Rio-it comes due to-day, you'd better collect some of the checks we have in hand!" 
               "Yes, Sir!" 
               "He's a good boy, a nice bowl" said Mr. Brent, as he saw his son-in-law leave the counting room. Then seating himself at his private desk, he took out his pocket-book and drew from it a package of lottery tickets and a scheme. 
               "The highest prize to-day is thirty thousand dollars!" he muttered. "If I'm in luck, I'll make more out of ten dollars in one fortunate move than I can by a year's labor with all my capital. I've had one good snap-I can't blame Charley so much after all!" 
               He heard footsteps approaching and quick as thought he shoved the tie gets and scheme back into his pocket-book. His hand shook as he did so, and a flush of shame reddened his check. That old man knew be was doing wrong. Yes, the merchant whose honor never had been questioned, whose fair-dealing was proverbial, actually felt guilty of doing wrong, and blushed when one of his own clerks entered the room. 
                
               It was accidentally, of course, that Catlin met Brennon at the Shades that day, between eleven and twelve, though the former knew the hour that the latter generally visited there. As usual his greeting was warm. 
               "How are you Charley, my dear boy, how are you?" he cried. "I'm glad to see you!" 
               "Not more, my dear Catlin, than I to meet you. I've received a present this morning and we must wet it over a glass of champaigne! I've got good news to tell you besides! The old man made me a present of a three hundred and fifty dollar watch this morning and is going to take me into partnership soon!" 
               "I congratulate you Charley! But I've news for you, and may be I can tell you what makes the old gentleman so liberal just now!" 
               "You can? Do, I'd like to know!" 
               "It is a secret, and I will only reveal it on your solemn promise not to disclose it!" 
               "That I will cheerfully give! I know you would not exact anything dishonorable from me!" 
               "Then the truth is this, and I discovered it by mere accident, Mr. Brent has been speculating in lottery tickets, and has won a prize?" 
               "Catlin, you are joking!" 
               "Indeed I am not!" 
               "Why, if you had only heard how bitterly he condemned me, his daughter's tears could hardly induce him to forgive me!" 
               "True, but he is not the only one in the world who preaches that which he does not practice. He saw how fortunate you had been, the temptation was too strong for him, and he followed your lead. He too has been lucky, and your present, like that which you made to your queenly wife, has come from the hands of that fickle dame, Fortune. Your old gentleman reminds me of an old story that is told of a certain Brother Abram, who lives in Westchester County, only I hope he'll be more lucky than Abram was. This good brother had a great habit of preaching what he didn't practice, and one day he got paid in his own coin for a transgression of the rule. He owned a few sheep, and among them was a very vicious old ram. In the pasture where he kept them, there was a deep ravine through which a small brook ran, but in wet weather it was always swelled into a deep and rapid stream. Some wicked boys used to delight in teasing the old ram, and standing on the edge of the cliff which overhung the stream, they would stoop down and wave their hats at him. The old ram enraged at this, would make at them with head lowered to give them a specimen of his butting propensities. As he came on at full speed, they'd step aside and over the ram would go into the torrent below whence he would emerge half 
                     dronwed
                     drowned
                  , after swimming and drifting to the flats in the lower end of the field. Brother Abram caught the boys at it several times, and albeit he was a man of peace, he severely trounced them. One Sunday morning, after he had dressed in his best suit, and was waiting for the time to go to meeting, he took it into his head to stroll through his fields. Chance or inclination led him to the pasture. He observed the sheep. Near and ahead of the flock the old ram, who looked as if he thought him an intruder Abram looked around, he did not see any one near, and the thought entered his mind, how funny the old ram would look in the water. So he placed himself where he had seen the boys stand, and stooping down on his haunches commenced moving his broad rimmed white hat before his face. The old ram wouldn't stand that insult, so with tail erect, and head lowered, he charged upon the worthy brother. Abram was so busy thinking of the fun he would enjoy in seeing the sheep struggling in the foaming water below, that he forgot to jump aside and the ram's head took him fairly in the stomach, and the next instant he found, not the ram, but himself, in the water. Half choked and two-thirds drowned, he managed to get ashore, but he didn't go to meeting that day!" 
               "I should think not, but I've got dry on your long winded story. Let's shed a tear over the spirits of departed grapes!" 
               "Agreed-what do you think of the difference between precept and practice? 
               "It's considerable; but I didn't think my father-in-law was such a hypocrite!" 
               "Oh, that's nothing, just about two thirds of the world lives by hypocrisy. Do you think that the sleek, well-fed, high-salaried pastors of our city churches, who drive their carriages, and grumble at the littleness of a six or seven thousand dollar a year salary, caring more for a dish of asparagus or the first salmon of the season, than they do for the souls of their 
                     parishoners
                     parishioners
                  , could live if it were not for hypocrisy? With lust in their hearts and lies on their lips, they cover their hypocrisy with the veil of outward sanctity. I repeat it, the world is more than two thirds made up of hypocrisy!" 
               No one could speak more truly than Catlin on that subject. He was a practical exponent of hypocrisy, himself. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               IT was later in the day. Catlin and Grab were seated in the room of the latter. Grab as usual occupied a couple of chairs, and with a very satisfied air he smoked his cigar. The wreaths of smoke curled up around his head, like fog around the top of a full branched tree. 
               "Do you think you could play the parson, Mr. Grab?" asked Catlin. 
               "Play the devil, you mean?'! said the other. 
               "The terms are synonymous in some cases I acknowledge!" replied Catlin, "but I ask in earnest, do you not think on a special occasion, for a friend who has been as faithful to you as I have been, you could with the garb assume the demeanor of a parson?" 
               "Why, I don't understand you. What do you mean! explain yourself!" 
               "I will. You remember my telling you about my fair secretary!" 
               "Yes, what of her?" 
               "I cannot effect my intention of ruining her, without she is led to believe that we are legally and properly married. I cannot and will not marry her. A sham marriage is my only resort!" 
               "You're a strange fellow, Catlin. Why do you want to carry the matter so far!" 
               "Revenge stops at nothing. I hate the girl-her father once struck me and called me thief. I never forgave an enemy! Will you serve me in this matter?" 
               "Why as far as money goes, I-" 
               "Money be d-d! Will you or will you not?" 
               "Why my boy, there's no need of being so violent in the matter! I'm willing to do anything in reason! I'm sure I've always proved myself ready to serve you!" 
               "That is true, Grab, excuse me. But you are the only man I dare to trust in a matter so delicate as this. I wish no witness but my housekeeper, and you know she is in my pay and power too!" 
               "Well, we will discuss the matter! You can depend upon me, you know." 
               "It is true," replied Catlin, "you have never failed me yet. But why need we discuss the matter, it is but a trifle!" 
               "It would scarcely be considered a trifle if the matter got out. The law would make it a rather serious affair for both of us!" 
               "Poh, there is no danger of that?" 
               "Not without she becomes desperate when she discovers how you have wronged her and exposes you!" 
               "Women are not so fond of exposing their own shame as that comes to. And their desperation is generally taken out in crying, tearing their own hair and fretting themselves to death!" 
               "I've read instances where they have revenged the loss of their honor by taking their seducer's life!" 
                
               "Such things have been, but they're not fashionable and a woman would rather be out of the world than out of the fashion!" 
               "You seem to hold but a poor opinion of women!" 
               "Why should I hold any other? To me they have been but as playthings, made for me to toy with; frail and fragile as a flower which you pluck because it is fragrant and beautiful, and cast away when it begins to fade!" 
               "Why, Catlin, that is rather a heartless remark!" 
               "I care not! I am a man of the world, and take life as I find it. There is nothing of the whining sentimentalist about me-I go in for reality, while I damn fancy. I care but little for what school-girls call love. It will do for some, but I enjoy the pleasure of hate twice as much!" 
               "You are a strange fellow, Catlin!" 
               "That's no news to tell me. I wouldn't be otherwise! My victims while they play with my gilded bait think I'm a glorious fine fellow, but when they feel the hook they believe me to be a devil incarnate!" 
               "You remind, or if you were not good-looking, you would remind me of Mokanna, the veiled prophet of Khorassan, as described by Moore!" 
               "Why, because I glory in my hate for the human race, love to revel on their miseries and pride myself on being a devil in the fullest sense of the term!" 
               "Yes." 
               "Well you're right in your comparison; I am a 'Mokanna,' and this Constance Morley shall be my Zuleika! Ha-ha-a glorious wedding we'll have, a glorious wedding. And she, the pure and beautiful, shall dream a dream of Heaven-a dream of bliss exstatic-bright as the visions of the poet, sweet as the life of an angel. But when she wakes from it, when I whisper in her ear what she is, what I have made her; when she drops from heaven down to hell-when I tell her that I am avenged for the blow her cursed father gave me, when she shrinks in horror from the serpent which she has hugged to her bosom, then will I be happy, thrice as happy as when I am revelling on her peerless charms!" 
               "My God, Catlin, how you can hate! God save me from ever incurring your enmity-I never saw but one man so bitter, so untiring in his hate as yourself!" 
               "Who was that, pray?" 
               "Our bitterest foe, the open enemy of the gamblers as well as of us, the man whose pen is ever at work to crush us, who can neither be bought or driven from the track!" 
               "You mean Buntline, I suppose?" 
               "I do!" 
               "Well, if he can't be bought or driven from the track, I know what can stop him. His days are numbered. I have sworn it, Selden has sworn it, Carlton has sworn it, and so have others. If he can escape all of us, he's more than man!' 
               "Well he has so far!" 
               "That's his luck-but we'll catch him napping some time see if we don't?" 
               "Well the sooner the better. He is playing the devil with our trade. The fellow never does anything by halves, when he hits, his blows come home!" 
               "So you think he can out-hate me?" 
               "Yes, judging from his actions. He is as bitter as gall! But he has one quality which you do not seem to possess, in fact two of them!" 
               "And what are they?" 
               "First, judging from what I've heard, he can and has loved all as ardently as he can hate-he seems ever to entertain and in his writings breathes in every line a pure and chivalrous opinion of woman-seems to regard her as a link between earth and heaven, made not for a toy as you say, but as a friend and purifier of man!" 
               "Well-that's his sentiment! I've none of it, what is the other quality which he possesses that I do not?" 
               "Candor! He cannot use deception and play the hypocrite, or at least I never heard that charged against him. You can pretend love and friendship for those you hate, even while you are working their ruin, but when he hates he comes out open-faced and calls folks and things by their right names!" 
               "That's the fault of his education. The fellow was brought up in the Navy and Army, where honor is taught and practised. I used to believe in honor, but blast me if I ever made any money by it. But that isn't what we were talking about. I want to arrange about this sham marriage. I want that to come off to-morrow evening!" 
               "Well we can arrange that, I guess!" 
               "You'll play the parson?" 
               "I'll try to. But you were saying something about money to lend on a mortgage, a while ago!" 
               "Yes-I want five thousand dollars-it will all come back to us. It is for one of our oldest and most regular customers-he has spent fifty thousand dollars with us in less than five or six years!" 
               "Is the property a sufficient security?" 
               "Yes, worth three times the amount. And he only wants the money for six months, if he don't pay it back then we'll foreclose on it of course. I was up to see it. He has a beautiful cottage and a pretty daughter too!" 
               "I suppose you've an eye on her, too?" 
               "I will have, when I get through the business I've on hand now. It won't do to have too many irons in the fire at once, you know!" 
               "I should think not. You can have the money of course. Has Vanroy written to you again?" 
               "Yes, I got a letter this morning!" 
               "How is he getting on?" 
               "Famously! Doing well for himself and us too. He is to be married in a few days-or at least says he will!" 
               "That girl troubles him no more, then?" 
               "She can't. He has got her locked up!" 
               "He's a coon!" 
               "You'd better believe he is. He'll make a smart one by the time he is educated!" 
               "He couldn't well help it under such an experienced teacher as yourself." 
               "You are very flattering. But I must go and see my "Zuleika"-it won't do when one is in love to be long absent from the flame or else it may go out. I'll be back bye and by!" 
               "Well, good luck go with you!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               WHEN Catlin left Grab, he hastened to his own apartment. Constance was there. In every scene, describing her as she was, I have painted her beautiful, but now, her face glowing with the rosy sun-light of happiness, her eyes sparkling with the holy dew of pure joy, every vein thrilling with pleasure which she did not try to conceal her bosom throbbing with the wave-like heavings of first love, she was gloriously beautiful. 
               When Catlin pressed her passionately to his bosom, she did not repulse him; when his burning lips met hers she did not shrink from his 
                     firery
                     fiery
                   kisses, she knew no danger, her heart and soul was centred in one wild mad thought, it was love, even to adoration! When a true woman loves for the first time, her love is like the zeal of a new convert-it is all faith all confidence with her. And never can she, if once deceived, love again as she has done. After his fond embrace and a few passionate caresses, Catlin seated himself by her side and more methodically proceeded to "business." 
               "Dear Constance," he said, "since we both love, our union need not be delayed! I have no parents to consult, I have only an uncle to please, and he is in Carolina. I would like to please him in my choice for he is rich and childless, and I would rather inherit his good-will and property than to see it go into the hands of strangers!" 
               "Why do you not write him and ask his consent!" 
               "It would take three weeks to get an answer, and dear Constance, I could never wait so long! To see you here daily, so angelic in your beauty and know that you love me, and to feel that you were not wholly and forever mine, would madden me, would drive me insane. No dear Constance, I can never sleep soundly till we are married. I see you ever before me-you are a part of my very being. I cannot exist without you-not another sun must set before we are united!" 
               "Oh so soon, dear Tullius? Why such haste. I have not even consulted my mother?" 
               "She will not object!" 
               "Oh no, I do not fear that, but then there are many preparations," said the blushing girl, "which I must make. I have clothes to make!" 
               "I will charter a whole dress-makers establishment, hire the whole bevy of work women. Go to Stewarts, there is my pocket-book, it contains over one thousand dollars, use it all, buy what you please, before to-morrow noon it shall be made up!" 
               "Oh what need of such haste, or of such extravagant expense, dear Tullius! I need but little, I do not love you because you can dress me richly-it is for your warm, good heart; your noble, generous nature-because you love me!" 
               "Then sweet girl do not delay my happiness! Our marriage need not at once be made public-I'll write to my uncle, ask and gain his consent before he knows of our marriage. In truth I would rather not have our marriage made known publicly until I have purchased and fitted up a house up-town. We can be married here-I can send for the minister, Mrs. Caneouse can be a witness:" 
               "And my mother?" 
               "Of course if you wish it, only I fear that in her fond joy at seeing her worshipped child happily provided for, she'll publish the news before we wish it spread!" 
               "Oh I'll warrant her prudence. She never refused me a request and for all the world I would not be married without her knowledge or without she was present. I would feel as if God would not bless our union, if I did!" 
               "Well, sweet one it shall be as you wish. I wish only to make you happy!" 
               "Dear, noble Tullius, how can I ever repay you for such goodness and devotion. A whole life-time of unwearying love will I give to you-I will work for you, cheer you through every care, be all that woman can be!" 
               "And you will be ready to marry me tomorrow evening?" 
               "If you wish it, I will reveal my happy lot to mother at once and get ready as soon as I can!" 
               "Bless you my own sweet Constance. I an indeed a happy man, and to you I owe all my happiness!" 
               Again and again he printed his burning kisses on her willing lips and madly pressed her lovely form to his raging breast. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               Two days had passed since Vanroy left Laura and her child at Ishmael's country residence. The first day passed off rather wearily, though Miriam the lovely daughter of the Jew, passed most of it in her company, toying with the beautiful child and trying to amuse her with her simple talk. Miriam was evidently a child of Nature. Her father had guarded her with miser like care from all contact with the world. She had never been abroad except in his company and very few visitors, and those only of his own selection, ever visited the house. Never was veiled and cloistered nun guarded more watchfully than she. 
               On the morning of the second day, Laura accompanied by Miriam descended to the garden, which surrounded by a very high stone wall, like a prison yard, lay back of the house. It was beautifully arranged and kept in constant order by the coarse and repulsive looking man, who was described in the twenty-seventh chapter. Miriam had attended to many of the flowers, for like most young girls she was very fond of them. 
               "Why does your father have his garden surrounded by such a high wall, and spiked too with sharp iron spears on top, Miriam?" asked Laura. 
               "Because he has much money and jewels stored here he tells me," replied the girl, "and he says that there are many bad men and thieves in the world, wicked men who would rob him and run away with me and abuse me if they could get me. It must be a very wicked world!" 
               "It is-it is!" muttered Laura-"a cold, cruel, heartless world, rotten to its very core and filled with mockery and deception!" 
               "Then father is right to keep me from contact with it!" said the young Jewess. 
               "Do you never wish to go abroad, does this not seem more like a prison than a home?" asked Laura. 
               "Oh no-I have so much to amuse me. I have my birds to feed, my flowers to water; if I would play and sing I have my harp and music; if I would work there is my 'broidery-oh no, it is home to me and I'm happy!" 
               "How long is it since your mother died!" 
               "I do not know, I never saw her and if I ask father about her he gets gloomy and sad and says nothing. I only know that her name was Hagar!" 
               "Hagar? What a singular name-yours is a sweet pretty name!" 
               "Father chose it for me!" said the maiden." 
               "It is strange that Augustus stays so long!" said Laura-"he said he'd surely be here by the second day and now night is coming on and no tidings from him. It is strange-it is cruel!" 
               "Where is your little Frankey? asked Miriam. 
               "Up in my room, I left the little cherub sleeping!" 
               "May I not bring him down to play with us?" 
               "Yes, if you wish to-the air is pleasant here, it cannot hurt him!" 
               With a merry song on her lips the light hearted and light-footed maiden bounded away, but soon returned hearing the laughing boy in her arms. 
               At the same time, the sound of the rolling wheels of a carriage were heard approaching the outer gate. 
               "My Augustus is coming!" murmured Laura, while her pale face glowed once more with the light of happiness and renewed hope. Taking her boy in her arms, she hastened to the door to meet him who in the eyes of Heaven was her husband. But he was not there. A stranger stood on the threshold. It was the driver of the carriage. He held a letter in his hand which he was about giving to the housekeeper. Laura recognized Vanroy's hand writing in the superscription-it was addressed to her. She opened it with a trembling hand, wondering why he had not come instead of writing. The letter was brief-but to her satisfactory. It read thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEAR LAURA-
                            
                           I am too busy in making my final 
                                 arragements
                                 arrangements
                               to leave, to come myself, therefore I send a carriage for you. The bearer will conduct you safely to the vessel in which I have engaged our passage to Florida, where I shall settle. I will await your arrival at the vessel, which will sail to-night or early in the morning. In haste. Ever your own 
                           
                              GUS."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Oh hurry and have my things brought down!" cried Laura to the housekeeper-"I can get ready in a few moments, he is waiting for me and we are to go to live in that balmy land of flowers of whose eternal verdure and beauty I have read so much!" 
               "I'm sorry you are going to leave us!" sighed 
                     Mirian
                     Miriam
                  , "I shall feel lonely when you are gone!" 
               "I wish you too could go!" said Laura; and then she hastened away to prepare for her journey, aided by the housekeeper who had received her instructions, as had also the carriage driver, from Ishmael. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               IT was evening. Mary Brennon was seat- ed in her little sitting room, waiting for her husband to return from his business. Tea was ready, but he was later than usual. Was it a wonder that she looked at the clock and sighed? That young wife was thinking how early her husband had hurried home during the first days of their marriage-how, almost breathless from haste he came in and clasping her fondly to his bosom imprinting fervent kisses on her lips and brow. And she sighed because she felt that a change was coming over him, that the spring-time of love was losing its freshest, sweetest flowers. 
               So it is too often with man, sometimes with woman. They love madly, wildly, at first, are hungry in their attachment, but then like one who has partaken of a hearty meal, they are satisfied, their appetite cloys and their hunger is appeased-love gives way to indifference and at last it becomes utter forgetfulness. Like the stream raised in a mountain ravine by a sudden shower, the torrent is for a brief time resistless and 
                     impetous
                     impetuous
                  -like it when the shower is over, the source is dried up by the sun and the stream is no more. 
               "He used always to be home by six!" murmured Mrs. B.-"it is now after seven, nearly eight. Charles is changing-he is neglectful!" 
               Her face before so sad, suddenly lighted up with joy, now, for she heard his well-known step at the door. She rose and hurried to the door, expecting the kiss and embrace which he had always been so ready to give, But she was disappointed when he entered the room, for he merely remark-as he took off his hat, "You needn't have waited tea for me, Mary. I dined quite late with a friend!" 
               No kiss-no kind word, no fond look. Her heart felt chi?led-she felt stifled-she could scarcely restrain a rising tear. 
               "A cup of tea will do you good, dear Charles!" she murmured. 
               "No, I don't like tea, especially after I've been drinking wine!" he replied, cast-himself drowsily down on the sofa. 
               Mary had noticed that his face was flushed when he came in, and thought that it was caused by his rapid walking. But when she bent over him to fix the cushion of the sofa under his head, she detected from his breath the cause of the flush, and for the first time the fear came upon her that she had linked her fate with one who might become a drunkard! In a few moments he was asleep, snoring as loud as a Mississippi Steamboat. 
               Then she sat down in a rocking chair by his side, leaving her tea untasted, and wept. Were not the tears of that fond confiding, pure young wife, registered against him in heaven? We believe they were!
                
               At the same hour, while Laura was speeding toward the vessel where she expected to meet Vanroy, the latter was seated in the parlor of Mr. Anthon, whispering low-toned words of love from his perjured lips to Lydia. And with all the confiding innocence peculiar to a maiden who knows but little of the world, the young girl with willing ears listened to him. He was her first love-in her imagination he was perfection personified-all nobleness, all generosity, all goodness-and then she thought he was so very handsome! Her lips coveted his kisses-his voice was sweetest music in her ear. Already she looked upon herself as almost his wife. 
               "Has your sister consented to be married on the same day that you are?" asked Vanroy. 
               "Mr. Dennison wishes her to?" replied Lydia, "but Eugenia thinks it is too hasty-she wants more time to prepare in!" 
               "But you do not, dearest, do you?" 
               "Dear Augustus, I only want to please you-I think our marriage is hasty, but if I can make you happy I shall be happy.-All that I want is to please you and to satisfy father. Our good Mr. Anthon has sent for him, he will be up soon, and then all the final arrangements can be made." 
               "I hope they can be hurried up, dear Lydia-I hate delay, and feeling as I do that we are already wedded in heart by the strong hand of HIM who makes hearts, I cannot bear to tarry for the few cold words which the law makes it necessary for weak man to utter to bind us together. Marriage, apart from the vows which Heaven hears and angels record, is but a mockery in my opinion. How many a marriage vow uttered below, but not coming from the heart, and never recorded above, is broken." 
               "There is one thing I hate!" said Lydia. It is the law in this State to advertise intentions of marriage, or have the bans published in Church. I would faint almost, to hear a hoarse clerk bawl out in church, 'Hear ye, Augustus Vanroy, Esq., intends to marry Lydia Newbury, spinister, the Lord permitting, within three weeks from the publishment of these banns!'" 
               "Ha! ha! That would sound funny.-but we can avoid that. In the State of New York we require no license-no banns are published there. It is but a short and pleasant trip to the city of New York and we can go there to be married!" 
               "So we can, and it will be better, but bush, there comes Mr. Anthon, I know his step-and oh, father, dear father is with him, I hear his voice!" 
               Lydia was right. It was the step of Mr. Anthon that she had heard, and her father's voice. With a bound light as a bird in the glad Spring-time and a cry of delight she sprang to her father's arms, kissing his pale brow which wore not only the indelible marks of time, but traces of thought, of mental labor. He returned her caresses affectionately and then asked- 
               "Where is your sister, child?" 
               "Gone out, father, with Mr. Dennison, I believe, but I have forgotten or neglected to introduce you to Mr. Vanroy!" 
               "You did not forget to speak of him in your letters, my child, but I am happy to meet him. Mr. Vanroy to me you are a stranger, but the warm and strong commendations bestowed upon you by Mr. Anthon, and the love which I am assured Lydia feels for you, warrants me in throwing aside all ceremony and greeting you as a son!" 
               "Sir, as a son to you, as a husband to my own sweet Lydia, and as a partner to Mr. Anthon I shall ever endeavour to be so faithful and honorable as to leave regrets behind me when I go down into the grave!" 
               "Bless you, my son, bless you. Lydia has ever been a good daughter, I hope she will prove a good wife!" 
               "She will, she will!" said Mr. Anthon-"but come, Newbury, let us old fogies go down stairs and open a bottle of wine young folks get along a heap better when they're alone!" 
               "I believe they do; Lydia tell Eugenia. I'm here when she comes in!" 
               "Yes, sir!" 
               The young couple were alone once more. And what, fair reader, do you think they did as soon as they were alone. Don't blush, for maybe you'll do so yourself sometime, they kissed each other. Yet what a difference in their kisses. Hers as pure as the May zephyrs when they breathe upon the lips of the opening flowers; his, like the scorching sun of July that touches but to wither and destroy. The one pure and refreshing as the grateful spring that escapes laughingly on the hill-side from its subterranean imprisonment; the other like the gush of the muddy torrent, shower-born, that dashes in a desolating path from the mountain's rocky crest-the one, ever-living, eternal as TRUTH; the other full for an hour then as dry as the hand of modern charity 
               And now, while they kiss and we philosophise, we'll leave them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               LAURA was on board the vessel. 
               "How soon will my husband be here?" she asked, as she saw the crew loosing sails preparatory to getting underway. 
               "I expects he comes directly, bimeby, pretty soon, when he comes!" replied the Dutch skipper. 
               Holding her sleeping boy in her arms and wrapping her shawl closely around him to keep off the chill of the night air, she paced the deck. But he, Augustus Vanroy, did not come. 
               The sails of the vessel were spread-but a single rope held her to the wharf, the breeze was fresh, and all the time freshening from the northwest, and the old craft tugged at the rope like an oat-fed horse with a green pasture in sight. 
               "Mein cot in himmels, vy der duyvels don't he come!" muttered the skipper, as he sent volumes of smoke up from his merschaum pipe. Even as he spoke, Ishmael appeared on the wharf, and puffing and blowing as if he had been running a "quarter-race," came aboard. He drew a canvass bag from his pocket and handing it to the skipper, said- 
               "Dere, Captain Scratchdermast, dere ish de monish!" 
               "Dat ish coot-it ish seemlick-now we are ready to go!" 
               "My husband, where is he?" asked Laura. 
               "Bimeby, pretty soon, directly he comes, I dinks!" said the Captain. At the same time Ishmael leaped on shore, the rope was cast off, the vessel filled away before the breeze and dashed down the bay. 
               "My husband! oh, do not leave Augustus, for my baby's sake, wait till he comes!" 
               "Yes, bimeby, when I gets across to Holland, den I waits for him!" said the skipper, with a coarse laugh. 
               Then she understood all, she realised that she had been once more basely deceived. She sank down helpless and fainting on the deck. The rough skipper had heart enough left in his callous frame to feel some pity, and he had her and the child carried below and placed in the best state-room in the cabin. 
               Meantime his craft was dashing out of the bay with flowing sheets, her spars buckling and bending under the force of a gale which as she drew out from the land increased in strength. When they discharged their pilot, they had to take in top-gallant sails and an hour later they were under close-reefed top-sails, the courses hauled up and snugly furled. The old skipper's face wore a sad and gloomy look as he stood near the helm, now glancing at the compass, then at his creaking spars and then to windward where the clear, cold-looking sky told him that the gale had but just commenced to show its strength. 
               
                  Four hours later. The gale was at its height. The old craft, now only under her topsails and the fore-storm-stay-sail, plunged and pitched into the heavy seas as if she would bury herself. Her crew, silent and anxious, were on deck, the old skipper had thrown away his pipe-he felt that he had more to do than to smoke just then. Where was Laura? Sleeping, amidst that turmoil of fearful elements? No. She could not sleep but it was not the storm that seemed terrible to her-it was the thought that he for whom she had perilled, lost all that was worth living for, had deserted her and the sweet child which all unknowing of its desolation slept upon her bosom. Had it not been for that child, she would have leaped into the foaming yeast of waters and perished, but for him she lived, for him, her angel child, she felt that love, all-enduring and eternal which only a mother can feel. 
               
                  Ten hours later. The night had passed away, but light made the storm appear even more terrible. The topmasts and upper yards had been carried away. The sea rose in great blue mountains, snow-crested with foam. One moment the staggering bark would be lifted high upon their ragged heads, then down, down in the deep gulfs below she would plunge, seeming as if she never would rise again. 
               Muttering now a curse and then a prayer the Dutch skipper stood by the binnacle, glancing often at his compass. The wind had chopped around from the North West and now was nearly East, blowing in toward the shore. Rock-bound as our coast is, the mariner dreads the gale when he cannot spread canvass enough to carry him clear of it. 
               The vessel staggered on. It was noon-but the skipper did not bring up his sextant to obtain his latitude. Longitude was what he wanted most. But fate was against him. 
               "Damn de luck, damn de woman, if I did not meddle mit her, I dinks dis would not come. Damn old Ishmael mit his tousand dollars, I wish he was overpoard mit it around his neck!" 
               "Land ho! Land ho! Right abeam, Sir!" cried one of the crew. 
               "Yes, cot for dam, yes, dere ish more of der goot luck-a dam sight more rocks dan land, and if der gale keeps on plowing we'll know how hard dey are before we goes to sleep. Dunder, I wish I was to home mit mine frau and de water was all dried up like Moses did mit der Red Sea!" 
               The gale held on-the vessel, almost without control, drifted in toward the rock-bound coast. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               A WEDDING scene! Now open your eyes, my young lady readers, I know such scenes interest you! 
               Tullius Catlin dressed in more than his usual elegant style was seated in his private parlor. A gentleman attired in a plain suit of black, wearing a spotless cravat of linen was seated near him. Had he occupied two chairs and had a prime havana between his lips, he would have borne a striking resemblance to Mr. Grab, the chief of the Lottery Thieves. 
               "How do I look, Tullius, priestly at all?" 
               "Yes you look as sanctified as old Onderdonk himself, you'll do-I wish the bride would come!" 
               "Sometimes a wish is father to a thought and by the time the thought is born the wish is realized!" said Grab, as he heard the rustle of a dress and light footsteps approaching. 
               The door opened and Constance, accompanied by her mother entered the room.-Her dress was plain, a snow-white muslin. Upon her head, contrasting with her dark glossy hair, was a wreath of white flowers intermixed with blue. She looked beautiful. she looked happy. And she was. She did not know the serpent whose glittering eye had charmed her-his fangs had not ye been fastened in her loving heart, the poison had not reached her soul. Devil though he was, she knew it not, and she looked upon him as an angel. 
               A blush suffused her countenance when she entered the room-it was not a blush of shame, but one of happy modesty when she glanced at him whom she supposed to be a minister of the gospel, he who was to speak the words which would forever bind her to her heart's choice. 
               "The Reverend Mr. Otey, my dear Constance!" said Catlin, introducing his friend. 
               "The reverend Mr. Otey bowed very low to the young lady, lower still to her mother and said: 
               "I'm happy, ladies on so auspicious an occasion to meet you-very happy-I may with propriety say, decidedly happy!" 
               Then turning to Catlin he added: 
               "Are we not ready for the ceremony, Sir? When the bride is present the groom should not be backward!" 
               "I am ready, Sir! Dear Constance take my hand!" 
               She did so. The usual ceremony, according to the solemn form of the Episcopal Church, was gone through. Her voice did not tremble nor her cheek blanch while she uttered the responses. She was bold in her innocence, in her just intents. 
               The ceremony was over. She was, though all unknown to her, wedded by an imposter, HIS WIFE. The vows had been spoken which with her never could be broken!-She was indeed a wife. 
               Wine was brought in after the ceremony, and the reverend minister did not neglect it. And warmed into enthusiasm by its potency, he said many things and made many an un-ministerial joke which it is not necessary for me here to repeat. 
               And now we'll leave the new married couple to themselves for a while, and look after some others of our dramatis personn. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               THERE is a fine, four-story brick house not many feet from the St. Nicholas Hotel on Broadway. It looks like a private residence. A silver plate on the door contains the name of the reputed owner or resident. The window blinds, though, are shut close, the place is silent as if no one dwelt there, or so would it seem to the mere passer-by. 
               Reader, there is a mystery about that house. Let us, you and me, go in and see if we cannot unravel it. How will we get in? Ring the bell of course. The door opens, a negro servant dressed in livery appears. 
               "Is Mr. Hern at home?" we ask. 
               "Yes, sah, but berry much engaged!" replied Ethiopia. "If de gemplemen will gib me deir card I'll see if dey can be admitted." 
               "I left my card-case at home, but here is a half-eagle, that will do will it not?" 
               "You're berry good, Sah, but I hab my strict orders." 
               "I know that-I've the pass word to 
                     the the
                     the
                   rooms above. I'm an old friend of Mr. Hern's!" 
               "Den, Sah, I s'pose all's right. Walk in, Sah!" 
               Well, we are in, reader. Up we go. At the head of the first flight of stairs is a door. It is locked inside. I knock, it is partially opened. I whisper a pass-word in the ear of the janitor-we pass in. We are in a room elegantly furnished. Rosewood tables here and there contain periodicals and newspapers. A sideboard, marble-topped, is loaded with decanters of wine and liquors. The glittering glasses are before us, shall we smile? 
               We had better not! Those liquors are drugged! But there is no fun going on in this apartment, let us go higher. We try another door-it too is guarded but our countersign passes us. We enter a room rather differently furnished. A sideboard with its tempting display of liquors is there. so is a roulette wheel. A faro table is spread at the head of the room, before it stand a numerous crowd. Who are they? Is it possible that we see a Judge there who but yesterday sent a poor wretch to prison for stealing a piece of meat from the market when his wife and children were starving in a cellar on Orange street. It cannot be-he is a Judge and administers justice. He knows the law by heart and could repeat the statute against gambling, verbatim. Yet he is there, gambling. 
               Who is that fine-looking old gentleman by his side. He has not a nervous look, but as he stakes his cash on the turn of a card his hand shakes like an aspen leaf in a gale. He is betting heavily. And, wonder not, for it is true, that man is Mr. Brent. He commenced with the lottery, he is now trying his hand at another kind of gambling.-Where will he end? Read on, you will probably find out. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
               ANOTHER wedding party. Ladies, you see I'm in the marrying mood just now, don't, please don't take advantage of my weakness. 
               The party consisted of Mr. Anthon, Mr. Newbury and his two daughters and Dennison and Vanroy. They occupied two carriages, which took them to the Railroad Depot near the United States Hotel. I had nearly forgotten to mention that Mrs. Deborah had also accompanied them to the cars. She was not going on, but she wished to see her "pets" safely off. 
               "May the Lord o' mercy bless you and bring you home safe!" said she, after kissing them her last good bye. 
                
               A shrill whistle and the cars were off. Vanroy was elated, for Ishmael had told him that Laura was embarked. She was, and at that very hour was on the stormy ocean in a frail bark with "Death knocking at the door." And he gloried in his fancied security, he forgot that there might be "a slip betwixt the cup and the lip," and he pressed his betrothed fondly to his side as the train followed the iron horse with lightning speed over the country. 
               Eight hours from Boston to New York. The time, within the memory of the oldest inhabitant, was when it required four or five days to make the transit. Yet only eight hours from the time that our wedding party left Boston, had elapsed, before they were in New York, and then two of Johnny Austin's superb carriages carried them in a few minutes to the Irving House, where in its luxurious apartments they found rest. The wedding was to take place the next day. 
               As soon as he had seen the party all comfortably located Vanroy asked them to excuse him, and started to hunt up Catlin and Grab. As he went down Broadway one of the new's boy's was crying: 
               "Extra Herald, only three cents-dreadful ship-wreck on the Long Island shore!" 
               He didn't pause to purchase a paper-nor did he think he had any interest in the news it contained. Perhaps he had. We'll see bye and bye. 
               Vanroy hastened to the office of Mr. Grab. He found that gentleman "solitary and alone in his glory," occupying two chairs as usual, and as usual enjoying the perfume (?) of an old Havana. His face, rosy as ever, lighted up with joy as he saw his minion approach, and he cried: 
               "Gus, my boy, how are you-bless your soul you look like a prince!" 
               "And feel like one too, Mr. Grab; I'm the happiest man out o' jail!" 
               "Where is the bride? You havn't left her, have you?" 
               "Oh no-she's at the Irving, with her sister and respected daddy. He's a great old man-is going to make me a present of thirty thousand dollars, as soon as the knot is tied!" 
               "That's a go! But is she pretty!" 
               "Rather sorterish that way! You'd ought to see her!" 
               "Well, of course, you'll introduce me!" 
               "I don't know whether it'll be safe.-You're most too good looking, Mr. Grab." 
               "Poh-nonsense-flattery, my boy! I was once tolerably good-looking, but I'm getting vulgarly fat, now. I smoke over thirty cigars a day, but they won't bring me down!" 
               "You need exercise. You ought to ride a hard-trotting horse!" 
               "I'd sooner swill vinegar than that. But when are you going to be married?" 
               "To-morrow, at old Trinity. If you can keep from smoking in church, come and see it done!" 
               "I will-how did you leave things in our line, in Boston!" 
               "All right, I've got over twenty good agents, men that stand too high to be reached easy; keen, sharp boys who will earn their commissions. We will soon hear of heavy work there, I've got a big crowd of fish on the string now, and will basket them all!" 
               "You're a trump, Gus, you're a trump!" 
               "Yes, the knave of trumps. I think even Catlin will acknowledge that I'm most as sharp a rogue as he is, now!" 
               "He does-we were speaking of you yesterday. By the way he is married." 
               "Married?" 
               "Yes, left-handedly! The bride thinks it is all right, but I guess before another sun sets, or at any rate before the week is over, she'll think differently!" 
               "Ah his old tricks. Catlin is the devil! He knows more, and does more too, than any other white man in America. But his bride-who is she?" 
               "A Miss Morley, pretty as an angel, smart in her own way, but not smart enough for him!" 
               At this moment Catlin himself entered the room. 
               And now we will leave the trio of villains to concoct their devilish plans and see if we cannot get into better company, for worse we cannot be in. Policy and lottery 
                     dealhrs
                     dealers
                   are so far below a common till-thief that it would be an insult to the last class to name them in the same breath. 
               Yet our judges, lawyers, policemen and merchants go hand in glove with them, and treat them as if they were gentlemen-Heaven save the mark? 
             
             
               CHAPTER XL. 
               IT was morning, and Mr. Brent was in his counting room before nine o'clock, a thing very unusual with him. His face was pale, but his eyes looked red and inflamed, as if he had either been up late the night before, or had been dissipating. He paced the room to and fro, after clasping his hands nervously together, and muttering to himself. 
               "Over six thousand dollars in one night, gone too at a gambling table! What led me there? Why did I go? I was invited as a friend and a gentleman to merely look at the game. I looked at it, others were winning, I thought I could, and now I'm out over six thousand dollars? And I've spent nearly a thousand dollars for lottery tickets since I drew a prize. But luck must change. I wish Charley would come with the key of the safe, I must win in my next trial. I'll buy tickets, they're better than faro, at any rate I wont spend money so fast in them. Ah-there's Charley!" 
               Charles Brennon too looked worn-out and jaded as he entered the counting room. But he noticed the looks of his father-in-law in a moment and asked: 
               "Are you unwell father? You look ill!" 
               "I'm not well my boy. I've spent a bad night-a bad night. I slept but little!" 
               "You show it, Sir. Had you not better go home and let me send for Doctor Root?" 
               "No-no my boy, I don't need medicine, or at least none of that kind. Besides I aven't time to be sick. I've business this morning, important business! You've 
                     the the
                     the
                   key of the safe, have you not?" 
               "Yes, father." 
               "Then get me a thousand dollars and 
                     af-
                     after
                   that we'll go up to the Bank Coffee house and try some of that old brandy, it will do me good I 
                     tkink
                     think
                  ." 
               Charles Brennon stood for a moment in astonishment. Long as he had known Mr. Brent, he never before knew him to either go into, or propose going into a liquor saloon. He had always said it was no place for a business man. He had warned Charles not to go to such places and now he invited him there. What a change! And what was the cause of it? 
               It was that he had taken the first step in crime when he had bought his first lottery ticket. He had then commenced to gamble-and the first step having been taken, the road was open and he knew not where to stop. 
               That first step when man or woman deviates from the right road, walks aside from the chalk-line of morality and honor, is a fearful one! It is worse than a leap from a precipice which at once destroys life, for it takes from life all that is in it worth possessing. Thus, you will ever see, those who have taken the one step, dash madly on over the turn-pike of crime, never pausing until they reach the gallows, or are plunged in the irretrievable gulf of misery. 
               Charles Brennon had taken that step, Mr. Brent had taken that step, Mr. Montrose had taken it, and destruction, utter ruin could be the only result. It is as useless to attempt to reform a gambler, as it is to reason with a drunken man, or try to set a river on fire with a pretty girl's greasy curl papers. 
               And was it only upon themselves that they were bringing ruin? No-it was upon their innocent families! Upon the good and pure "loved ones at home." 
               Why do I write these line, what did good and honorable men pass laws against gamblers and lottery dealers for? To make money? No! It was to protect the innocent who suffer from the crimes of the guil- ty. I have opened this war against the lottery dealers, on behalf of the thousands who have been ruined by them, on behalf of those who daily suffer by it, and I've sworn upon the holy BOOK of BOOKS, and vowed in my own heart to drive them from this city if life was spared to me-and I'LL DO IT! If I perish in the attempt, the blessing of many a wife will be breathed on my grave; she will honor the memory of him who saved a husband and father from spending his last cent with the shark-like policy dealers, while those whom he should support, were suffering at home. And if other editors would do their duty in this cause, then would we triumph, for the press is a mighty engine in fearless and honest hands. But when money-loving, sordid hucksters use their pens for gain and not in Truth and Honor's cause, then is it a frail and rotten dependance. An editor, as a friend of the people, should be brave, honest, truthful and responsible, and his services will be remembered and his name honored long after he has descended into the grave. And, while he lives, the pleasant whisperings of his own unspotted conscience, will cheer him through all dangers and privations. Such a man can be happier within the damp walls of a dungeon, than a villain could be in a palace. When tyrants tremble on their thrones, peasants sleep soundly on a bed of straw. The judge upon the bench who stamps guilt upon a brow of innocence, makes for himself a crown of thorns! 
               Pat Daly may put that in his pipe and smoke it! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLI. 
               "EXTRA Herald! Dreadful shipwreck, only six cents, and twenty lives lost!"-yelled one of king Madden's army of News-boys. "A particular account, and a baby drown-ded! Extra Herald-only six cents!" 
               I said that Augustus Vanroy passed the newsboy without noticing his cry, for little did he think there was news in it that would interest him. But reader, we will read the news, precisely as it is reported in the Herald, and then guess whether or not he was interested. We will commence at the beginning-here it is: 
               "EXTRA HERALD! 
               "Dreadful shipwreck! Great loss of life. Noble devotion of a self-sacrificing mother whose baby was drowned! Vessel and crew lost! 
               "By our special reporter, who killed three horses in riding express from the scene of disaster, we are enabled in advance of all our blanket sheet cotemporaries, to give the full particulars of an awful, distressing, and most melancholy catastrophe upon the coast of Long Island. 
               "While our sagacious and talented reporter was engaged in the pleasing performance of "opening a hasty plate" of clams near the beach, he saw a crowd of citizens rushing wildly toward the sea shore, and upon raising his eyes and adjusting his eye-glass he descried far out upon the angry sea, a ship partially dismasted, coming helpless in upon the surges, which, according to his judgment were at least forty feet high-probably more? 
               "Our reporter, ever alive to the calls of suffering humanity, instantly dropped his clam basin and rushed to a good point of observation, and being happily supplied with materials for so-doing, took down a note of the entire scene, and in his own graphic, but eloquent words, we give it. 
               "The sea rolled mountain high as if 'twould link both earth and sky and with terrific roar it lashed the rocky shore. The great white surges with tremendous splurges rolled up upon the quivering beaches wetting many a pair of breeches. The clouds above-by Boreas driven, were oft with lurid lightning riven, and on she came all recklessly although about a wreck to be. Upon her deck a pallid crew who were about to bid adieu to this vain world of show where money makes the "grey mare" go! And there in wild despair, her baby in her arms, her bosom filled with wild alarms, her form all full of charms, a woman stood gazing on the flood all hopelessly. Oh then each manly bosom throbbed with firm resolve to rescue her or die, and many a woman stood upon that shore and sobbed with brine-drops in her eye. Oh had I but Elliott's skill a painter's canvas would I will, or Bennet's matchless pen to sketch and write that fearful sight. I'd make each reader's hair uprise on end as they could see it pictured there. 
               'Twas terrible. Each wave that rushed toward the shore, the hapless vessel to her sad fate bore. At last with fearful shock she struck a hidden rock, and uprose one wild, mad shriek-the vessel was a wreck! Plank from plank was torn, and here and there the struggling forms of those who oft had battled in the storm were seen, a moment struggling in the foam, but soon they passed away, "unknelled, uncoffined and unknown!" 
               But clinging to a spar we saw a woman fair, who to her bosom pressed her child, and drifted o'er the water's wild. Not boat had we to breast that sea, and bold were he who'd dare to launch one there. On-on like a lily torn by the gale from off its stem, as helpless and as pale she came. More near-more near, and then there were who through the surf did wade to aid the fair. At last so close that we could see her lips in prayer move and note her eyes upturned toward the skies, we thought her safe. But sad to say a monstrous sea came rolling on-a moment from our view it veiled her form, she rose, but her poor babe was gone. 
               They seized her as she drifted in and bore her to the shore. "My child, my boy," she cried, "my angel and my pride; oh where, oh tell me where is he?" Those men could not reply-a tear-drop filled each eye, and sadly, silently they looked out on the sea. She needed then no word to speak its fate, and like a bird that's lost its mate and of its young been robbed she felt alone and desolate. She would have turned and sought a grave beside her baby in the wave, had not those men with strong but friendly clasp held her within their grasp. 
               Of all that crew that fair bereft was all alive, then left. The vessel was a ship from Rotterdam, bound for a load of Wolfe's Schiedam; her captain's name was Scratchdermast, a German, born in Hollingast. 
               The rescued lady will arrive to-morrow in our city and an object, she, of pity, will we hope receive attention kind, her sorrows to relieve. 
               Our reporter is too feeble in consequence of his superhuman exertions to give further items this evening, but as soon as he is somewhat recovered he will give further particulars, which being prepared exclusively for our Journal cannot be obtained by any of our blanket sheet Wall street contemporaries." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLII. 
               Another day had opened, fair and beautiful, the sun shone bright upon the spires of Trinity Church. The officiating pastor and his clerk were in the sacristy waiting the arrival of a wedding party. It was near noon, and at twelve the ceremony was to come off which would unite Augustus Vanroy to Lydia Newbury and her sister to Mr. Dennison. 
               As the hands upon the clock above pointed to within five minutes, the carriage containing the bridal party and their friends, drew up before the lofty edifice. The groomsmen hastened to assist the ladies out. At that moment another carriage, containing a pallid female with one or two persons else, was approaching up Broadway. It arrived opposite the Church and at that moment Augustus Vanroy was leading his betrothed across the portals of the sacred building. Then, from the lips of the pale creature in the coach arose a wild shriek, but he did not heed it, did not seem to hear it, for he passed on. 
               But the carriage stopped. 
                
               The bridal party advanced to the altar. Their steps echoed through that lofty building, as echo the steps of those who tread over the marble floors of palaces in lands where men born as we are, helpless as we are, are looked upon with reverence and awe, and fear, because men call them KINGS. 
               The minister and his clerk entered, the parties were asked if they were ready to proceed, and they said they were. The two fair girls, their affianced husbands, and their grey-haired father, with Mr. Anthon, knelt before the altar. The pastor then asked, as usual, if any one could say why those before him should not be united in the holy bonds of wedlock. That if such there were, they should then speak, or forever thereafter hold their peace. 
               For a moment, Vanroy's face was pale, a nervous glance he cast around, as no one spoke, he seemed to feel safe. The minister requested them to arise. At that moment, a voice-a calm, low, sweet voice said: 
               "I forbid this marriage!" 
               "Who forbids it?" 
               "I, the wife of Augustus Vanroy-the mother of his child. He dare not deny that I am both!" 
               As she spoke, Laura advanced to the very front of the altar. Pale, haggard from the 
                     perit
                     peril
                   and suffering she so lately had endured, she looked like one who had just broken from the bonds of a lunatic asylum. 
               How did Vanroy look? Like a thief caught in his felonious acts. He did not speak-he could not reply. Even he, villain as he was, quailed before the eye of Laura-trembled at her voice. Lydia Newbury looked at him, one moment, after Laura had spoken, then turned toward her father. 
               "Let us go back," she said, "I cannot marry him! That woman is no maniac, but he is, my heart tells me that he is a villain, and has deceived me. Father let us leave this place, my lips will breathe no marriage vow within these walls." 
               She turned to look for him, but he had fled. So it ever with guilt. 
               Criminals are cowards, their own consciences are their accusers, and they would fly from a shadow. 
               And where was Laura? Did she follow the heartless recreant? No! She saw him leave, and had he then and there offered to marry her, she would have scorned and despised the offer. Though she was his victim, though he had sunk her down into the gulf of infamy, she was in the sight of God as much more pure than he, as is a tear drop in a ministering angel's eye, when compared with the muddy drops of blood which ooze from the heart of the festering corpse of a murderer. 
               
                  He fled, coward-like, to seek advice from his associate thieves-she remained to pray 
               Lydia Newbury said three words to her as the bridal party passed out-"God bless you!" 
               How much is there contained in those simple words when spoken by kind lips, and issuing from a feeling heart. God bless you! Reader, we all need HIS blessing, and the prayer even invoked by a sinner will be heard and registered above. 
               The bridal party had passed away, leaving the astonished minister, and the few spectators who had gathered in, standing in mute surprise, wondering what the matter was, for it was beyond their comprehension 
               Laura stood still gazing at the cross of Christ before her. What were her thoughts, as like a statue of Mary Magdalen, pale, wan, yet beautiful, there she stood? The GOD who in trouble had chastened her only knew. She did not speak-she did not turn her glance to those, who pitying, stood be side her. She scarcely seemed to breathe Rigid every limb, not an eye-lash quivered, no tear drop rolled down her alabaster cheek. Her white hands clasped before her her lips unmoving. 
               It was a picture!-one that a sculptor might study, only a true son of genius copy 
               They spoke to her, she answered not Her eyes were on the cross. They touched her and gently turned her away, and when her eyes were drawn from that blessed symbol of the death of Him who suffered to redeem us from sin and its dread penalties, she glared wildly on those who would befriend her. Her lips pale as she had been, reddened with blood as she bit them in anger, and with horrid curses and wild shrieks made those old aisles ring. Horrible were her imprecations. She tore the long brown hair in masses from her head; her eyes, before so sad and mournful, now flashed and glared like the orbs of an angry tigress. They were forced to hold her, to bind her. She bit with her teeth, tore with her nails, and seemed as if she would tear herself assunder. 
               SHE WAS A MANIAC! 
               And where was he who had wrought this ruin-who had defiled a human lilly, torn it from its stem, dallied with it while it was beautiful, and now its leaves all torn and stained, had cast it into the mud of modern charity to rot? Was he writhing in the hell which fools say conscience forms for the wicked? Was he suffering remorse, and feeling one tithe of the agony she had known within an hour from the time when she had listened to his vows, and given him all that woman, noble woman, blinded in her confidence can give? No! As she was borne in a carriage up Broadway on her way to the Lunatic Asylum. he was sitting with Grab and Catlin in the parlor of a lottery office, sipping wine and relating his adventures! That GOD is just I dare not deny, but so slow are the movements of Justice that scoffers often can say, "sin is pleasant-it has no sting-there is no punishment on Earth and none hereafter!" 
               Reader, you may think this story is a mere fable-or novel. Go to the Asylum at Blackwell's Island, and ask the kind superintendent to show you the skeleton of a once beautiful form-to show you a maniac whom only at lucid intervals, when tears come to quench for a moment the maniac fire which like a furnace burns within her brain, and you will see poor LAURA VANROY! 
               After that, if the afternoon is pleasant come down to the city, and among the best dressed promenaders of Broadway, you ear find Augustus Vanroy, and leaning on his arm most probably some love-sick damsel, who can see in dress and tinsel what she could never discover in a man of real worth. Reader, if you are a woman, or a girl with heart yet untouched, beware of the heartless fop whose merit consists in his dress, who, like many a tall forest tree, is all brush at the top and rotteness at heart. It is true that the world is a wilderness without love, but it is better to live hermit-like in a wilderness than to dwell in a palace and feed on tortures. Love not lightly-love wisely and love well 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLIII. 
               A council of war. Can there be any such thing where women, those angels of bliss and ministers of peace, are present? where they can act as advisers. It would seem that it could not be. Not weeping, though her heart was bursting, did Lydia Newbury return to the Irving House with the bridal party. Wrong can kill love quicker than anything else. Pride wounded, affections trifled with, herself sought for what she had, not for what she was, Lydia felt so indignant that she at once cast the wretch from her heart, even more hastily than he had fled from her presence. 
               Her father and Mr. Anthon were loud in their denunciations and were determined to seek redress from the law. His partnership with Anthon did not deter the latter from expressing his opinions, for it was more nominal than real, notes had formed the principle capital invested by the young man and his conduct had been such as to forfeit all confidence. 
               Dennison was dumb. Had not Eugenia, still confiding in his honor and his love clung to him, he would have been ashamed of his acquaintance with Vanroy; have left her whom he dearly loved, and those whom he so much respected. Had he been a partner in, or cognisant of Vanroy's villiany, he would not have dared to stay there. But he was honorable and innocent and they did not doubt him. 
               The council of war alluded to was held in their private parlor. 
               "Let us have the wretch arrested!" said Mr. Anthon. 
               "By all means, he should be imprisoned for life!" said Mr. Newbury. 
               "Rather shot, like a dog!" said Dennison. 
               "Or hung!" said Mr. Anthon. "Let us send for the Police and have him arrested!" 
               "For what!" said Lydia, calmly. 
               "Breach of promise, swindling, false pretences, robbery, everything!" said Mr. Anthon. 
               "He has not broken a promise from which I do not voluntarily release him-he has not robbed me of even so poor a thing as my heart. Let the wretch go!" she replied. 
               "I, at least, will horsewhip him!" said Dennison, "for deceiving me as well as wronging you!" 
               "No, you will not!" said Lydia, calmly-we not wish our names in the papers. I am sufficiently mortified now, without having some penny-a-line scribbler telling the world of our affairs!" 
               "The girl is right, 'twould hurt my credit if my name was published in the affair!" said Mr. Anthon. "And then I'm so disappointed. I wanted to see a wedding so bad-I never was at one in my life!" 
               "If I have not lost credit here," said Dennison, glancing at his betrothed and at her father, "you yet can see one!" 
               "You have not lost credit with me!" said Mr. Newbury. 
               Eugenia did not speak, but she gently pressed his hand and her large dark eyes looked up in his. He was answered. 
               "Shall I send for a minister?" he asked. 
               "We shall not object!" said Mr. New bury. 
               "No, and as I am not to be a bride, I can at least be a brides-maid!" said Lydia, appearing to be gay, though her heart was far from gladness. 
               "But you'll not be an old maid!" said Mr. Anthon, trying also to appear gay. 
               "If I follow your example I will!" she replied. 
               But to shorten the story, for reader I'm full as tired of writing it as you must be of reading it, I will pass over minute particulars and simply state that then and there, in the Irving House, where many a fair couple have been united, Dennison and Eugenia Newbury were married. 
               But though they endeavored to keep the matter a secret the Herald of the next morning contained nearly all of the facts, of course considerately withholding the names of the parties. 
               This hastened their return to the East where we will leave them for the present. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLIV. 
               And now once more for a glance at one of our characters in which every reader must feel interested. CONSTANCE MORLEY. 
               She had as she supposed, been married to Catlin, felt happy. She loved him, loved as only a woman in her first passion can love. 
               We will again look at her as she is seated in his magnificent apartment where we have so often seen her. We have repeatedly described her beauty, but never when her countenance was so suffused with a flush of glorious happiness as now. Her eyes seemed larger, brighter than before; her lips bursting in ripeness, her lovely form swelling into fuller proportions. She was indeed lovely. 
               She had been married three days. She had time to feel that it was a reality of joy and not a dream born but to vanish and fade away. 
               
                  He entered the room. His face was pale and a frown rested on his brow. He sat down at the table without scarcely noticing her and commenced writing. She noticed his looks, and a shade of anxiety darkened her fair face as she asked: 
               "What is the matter, my dear husband? Something annoys you!" 
               "Yes-do not bother me now-I am not in the humor to be interrupted!" 
               She looked at him in utter astonishment. But as if she thought he was in jest, 
                     mearly
                     merely
                   trying her temper, she bent forward and kissed his brow. 
               "Oh go away, I don't like kissing he said, quite rudely pushing her from him. 
               "Tullius dear Tullius, you are not serious in this unkind repulse, you are only trying my temper. I love you dearly, you need not try me!" 
               "Then go away, don't bother me!" 
               "Mr. Catlin is this the language to use to a fond true wife, who has given to you a pure heart, a free hand and her very soul-used towards her when she has been your wife but three brief days?" 
               "My wife! Yes, that is a pretty term but it would be prettier if it was substantiated!" 
               "
                     Substantiaied?
                     Substantiated
                   What do you mean? In the name of heaven tell me-we are married, I love you, you love me!" 
               "So you say, you may love me!" 
               "Tullius you do not doubt me!" 
               "No, but I doubt that your love will continue. I'll bet a diamond ring against a pair of gloves that you hate me before the night is out-yes before the sun sets!" 
               "Tullius why so cruelly jest with a fond sensitive heart?" 
               "I'm not jesting Madam" 
               "Madam? Why ever before you have called me Constance, your dear Constance. For Heaven's sake tell me why is this change? Neither in word or thought, or deed have I wronged you Why do you call me Madam?" 
               "True, I am in 
                     eror
                     error
                  , I might better call you Miss-you have no right to the title of Madam and will never have until you find some one fool enough to marry you!" 
               "Marry me-me a wedded wife?" 
               "Yes a left-handed one, a kind of a spiritual wife, you see!" 
               "Mr. Catlin what does this mean? I can not comprehend you-in the name of the God who made us tell me what you mean!" 
               "I should think you could understand me, but as you seem so dull of comprehension, I will take the trouble to say that I do not need your services any further in these apartments; you can leave. You are not my wife!" 
               "Not your wife?" she gasped-"surely the minister was-" 
               "An accommodating friend of mine, only so 
                     Niss
                     Miss
                   Monley you may as well take a final farewell of your temporary husband!" 
               She did not shriek or faint, or weep, as the heroines of novels do, on such occasions. Her tall form seemed to dilate, her 
                     eyer
                     eyes
                   to 
                     enlrrge
                     enlarge
                  , and her red lips to pale as if frost had touched them. She looked a moment in his face and when she saw the villain quail before her earnest gaze, she felt satisfied of his guilt, of her own unintentional guilt and of her irrecoverable disgrace.-And then, while her eyes told him how sudden is the change from fervent love to bitter hate, she spoke in a low whisper, 
               "Wretch, why have you so wronged me?" 
               "To revenge the wrong your father cast upon me. Now go, courtezan, go and mingle with common herd whose path is over burning coals and the end of which is in the Potter's field!" 
               "I go-" she answered, "but Tullius Catlin, like the riven oak I recognise my blasted hopes at a flash. "You may now triumph' in less than an hour fear for thyself for thy crime shall be rewarded!" 
               Then while her eyes flashed and her form seemed still to grow larger and more beautiful she turned and left him. 
               After she was gone, with a low sneering laugh he cast himself back upon an ottoman and said: 
                
               "Well, well, so far for the first breath of the gab. It blows but lightly I think I can stand it!" 
               His 
                     victem
                     victim
                  , when she left his hated presence, walked not wildly or hurriedly away but with a calm firm step to the office of the District Attorney. There, before a politician her tale of wrongs she told. For a wonder, it was listened to. Had she not been beautiful, had she been haggard with poverty and suffering, had she been as are the beggars and outcasts of our christian city, she would have been thrust forth from the threshold of Justice, unheard. But she was pretty and was listened to. 
               After she had told how she had been deceived and wronged, she was informed that Tullius Catlin was under the 
                     serveillance
                     surveillance
                   of the Police, that there, in the District Attorney's office papers were filled ready for his arrest, that they possessed evidence which would send him to States Prison, but that it was not yet deemed politic to arrest him. That though this evidence and these papers had been in the possession of the authorities "for some time, they had not yet deemed it politic to use them!" 
               Not politic? to fulfil duty; to take an oath and then break it; to shield a criminal by delay while he commits new crimes-this then is policy, the policy of New York Justice! Yes, reader such it is. Hundreds of criminals already known, with the proof of their guilt in the hands of those who are bound to prosecute, are shielded by the law's delay" or rather the delay of those whose duty it is to execute the law. 
               Not disheartened, but more determined than ever, she left the office vowing 
                     vengence
                     vengeance
                  .-And when an angered woman vows 
                     vengence
                     vengeance
                  , then let man beware. She who is an angel in her good-humor, is a devil in her wrath. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLV. 
               When Vanroy left the church, he at once hastened to the apartment of Grab, for rolled and terror-stricken, (I will not say conscience seared, for he had no conscience,) he needed the advice and aid of older villians than himself. 
               He found Grab at home occupying a couple of chairs, and enlightening his presence and misty-fying his apartment with a prime Habana. 
               In as few words as possible he related the events which are described in the 42d chapter. Grab heard it all and it was not until its conclusion that he took the cigar from his mouth, and removed his feet from the opposite chair. Then he said: 
               "Well, Mr. Augustus Vanroy, I must say for a man of your wit, your practice and education, you've made a d-d pretty mess of this business. Why didn't you swear you didn't know the woman, that she was a maniac-and have got them to go on with the ceremony?" 
               "It was impossible, sir, she was too fast for me!" 
               "No, you was too slow for her. A man with money and impudence, and you have plenty of both at your command, can do anything in this city. You ought to have stood your ground, sir!" 
               "I could not, Mr. Grab. It would have startled your nerves to hear the voice and see the form of a woman, whom you with your own eyes had seen but two or three days before depart in a ship bound on a voyage across the ocean. It seemed to me as if she had arisen from the grave and I was utterly unmanned. It would have unmanned Catlin, and he is the DEVIL himself!" 
               "Did you name me?" asked the veritable Tullius, entering at the moment. 
               "There, I said he was the devil!" said Vanroy. 
               "Well, and what the devil is up? You both look as if you had just heard the first toot of Gabriel's horn!" 
               "Good reason to-the fat's in the fire-Vanroy is in a scrape-his marriage is broken off and he will undoubtedly be exposed and that will break up our Boston business which had just begun to be profitable!" 
               "The marriage broken off, how?" 
               Vanroy again detailed the facts as he had already done, to Catlin. 
               "Well," said the latter, after listening quietly to the narration, "this match being broken off is rather hard for Vanroy, but the matter won't affect our lottery business in Boston!" 
               "Why not? I can see nothing but ruin in it. Their exposure will ruin Vanroy, there. 
               "Yes, were it made, but do you think they would be so foolish as to make it? It would but recoil upon themselves and render them subject to ridicule for being so weak as to be so easily duped. There is nothing so dreaded in this world as ridicule. They will be glad to preserve their reputations by avoiding any exposure, and all that we have to do is to place another agent there in the place of Mr. Vanroy, who can successfully attend to the business which has already commenced. Van can be sent south or west to a new scene of operations!" 
               "Well, Catlin, you always take things cool and seem ready for any emergency!" 
               "Of course, and that is the grand secret of success in life! I have to-day resigned my new-made bride and told her to go to the devil; come cheer up and let's have a jolly glass of wine. I do not often imbibe, but I feel in the humor to-day!" 
               Grab produced the wine and over it the villainous trio not only recounted past adventures but formed fresh plans for the future. Catlin stated that one love off his hands, he had only to turn his arts towards Miss Montrose to make another conquest-while Grab said he cared nothing for love but all for money, and didn't see why he couldn't make it as well as a Beach or a Barnum, for his trade was full as legal and as honorable as theirs. 
               A jolly time they had of it, and soon in the oblivious and dreamy vapors of wine and cigars they forgot the dangers which menaced them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLVI. 
               CONSTANCE MORLEY, when she left the office where justice should be administered, passed stern and stately up Broadway, unheeding the admiring glances which many a promenader cast upon her 
                     magnificient
                     magnificent
                   figure. She was studying how to be revenged upon her dastardly seducer. Poor and powerless in friends, knowing that she had wealth to war with, she was studying what course to pursue for upon revenge, and revenge alone, she was bent. 
               She did not notice that she was closely followed by a man who was dressed in the height of 
                     fashon
                     fashion
                  , though not exactly foppishly. He was a little above the medium height, rather well made up, had eyes as dark as the door of night, heavy black whiskers and moustache. His face was pale but not intellectual. The animal evidently predominated in his nature. Yet he was one that would not pass unnoticed in a crowd. There was a kind of bold, fierce expression in his countenance that would induce one who did not understand human nature to set him down as a brave man. Yet have I often, and most often seen calm, quiet looking men, who until aroused looked meek as lambs, the most dangerous in a fray, ready to lead the way where such men as him I have first described dare not go. And I may as well tell the reader at once that in him I only describe a person whom I know in this city. The last time I saw him it was in the dress circle of Burton's theatre, with a lady by his side who was not only a faithless wife, but one who had deceived and wronged the truest friend she ever had on earth. She started, paled and trembled when she met my eye, for she knew that I knew all her history. She whispered to him that I was there, and when the coward raised his eyes and met my steady gaze he cowered like a hound beneath the eye of its master, like a sheep-stealing dog that knows it ought to be shot. After a moment's conversation the wretched, misguided woman, whose beauty and intellect once so peerless, deserved a better fate, arose and accompanied her paramour from the place. I spoke not, moved not, I did not wish to know where they went, I knew that she could never find happiness let her go where she might. I will call this person DEGERNEAU, as any name will do for a man who dares not assume in his own country the name which he bore when he was forced to leave it. At the same time I would say that though my readers may sometimes meet him in the street, they will not be apt to find him in places of amusement when I am in town. 
               This DeGerneau passed by Constance Morley several times, and as often cast his dark libertine eyes upon her pale but beautiful face. He could see that she was laboring under some intense excitement, for her clenched hands, her hurried gait, her bloodless lips, her eyes riveted on the pavement over which she passed, all betokened it. And of this, if possible, he intended to take advantage to gain an introduction, for already his eyes gloated upon her splendid figure. 
               They passed on up Broadway until they reached Lispenard street, where just as he was about to pass her again to get a glance at her face, her foot caught against an 
                     uneaven
                     uneven
                   part of the pavement and she would have fallen had he not sprang forward and caught her, 
               She could not but acknowledge the kindness of the act and he at once opened a conversation. 
               "I was happy fair lady," he said "to be near to aid you, and yet you was the cause of it!" 
               "I Sir?" 
               "Yes lady, I acknowledge to an impropriety-I have followed you for several blocks, because you seemed unhappy and in trouble, I felt interested and wished if possible to serve you!" 
               She looked at him earnestly, seemed to study for a moment what reply to make and then said. 
               "Sir, how can you feel interested in a stranger?" 
               "Lady, when a woman is in distress, every true man is a friend and a brother to her. If I can serve you, do not, consider me a stranger! Trust in me!" 
               "Sir, you are kind, but I know not whom to trust, I have been deceived, basely deceived by one whom I loved better than life. In whom can a wronged and betrayed woman trust but her God." 
               "For further happiness perhaps none-but for revenge of past injuries-" 
               "Ah Sir, that is it-you have spoken the word, revenge. revenge is all I seek. Oh if you are bold enough-but no, I should not ask you, who look so bold and good to incur risk or danger for me a poor friendless stranger!" 
               "Lady, do not deem me a stranger. If you have been wronged, I dare to, and will punish the wronger, Tell me your history!" 
               "Ah, Sir, it is a sad but a brief one-perhaps when you have heard it, you will despise me!" 
               "Never lady, one so beautiful as you could do no wrong in my eyes!" 
               She looked at him as he uttered those words, as if she would read his soul through. She knew that if his intentions were honorable, that was no time for unmeaning compliments, no place to speak them. And deceived once, she doubted him. He saw the doubt pictured in her expression and hastened to remove it, 
               "Lady," said he, "because I so boldly spoke of your beauty which none could see and not admire, think not it was that which interested me or caused me to offer my services. I am no common flatterer, no dangler about the skirts of the female sex. I saw that you was unhappy, I feel interested, I with candor and true-hearted kindness of intention offered my services. It is for you to accept or reject them!" 
                
               "Sir, excuse me-excuse one who has been deceived, if a doubt as regards the motive of proffered services crosses her mind. I will not doubt you now. I do need a friend, a bold, daring friend, and with my life I would reward his services!" 
               "Lady, let me accompany you home, tell me what you wish done, and it shall be done!" 
               "Home! I have no home! Humble though it was, I had one before he met me, but to go back to my poor mother, disgraced, I cannot! I CANNOT!" 
               "Lady, did I not fear to offend you, I would offer you the use of my own apartments-I can remain at a hotel!" 
               "Sir, kind sir, I thank you. I do not ask you to give up your apartments, but if you can afford me one small room where I can remain secluded and alone until my aim is accomplished, I will accept your kindness!" 
               "Lady, you shall have a room, sacredly private to yourself, and I shall feel honored by your acceptance of so simple a favor!" 
               "The favor to me, as I am now situated, is great indeed, and I accept it freely as it is offered, and trusting in your honor!" 
               "Then lady, take my arm, we will soon reach my apartments, and then I will further hold myself obedient to your orders!" 
               She did not reply, and De Gerneau, glorying in the hope of possessing another victim, led her off. And with him for a time we must leave her. Yes, sad though it be, with a keen, designing, talented, unscrupulous wretch, devoid of honor or courage, but with tact enough to conceal his faults and magnify his apparent merits, we must leave that noble-hearted, lovely woman! GOD help her! No one else can. 
             
             
               
                  
                     CHAPTES
                     CHAPTER
                   XLVII. 
               SIX MONTHS! How much can transpire in six months-how much of weal and woe to men or to nations. If some who read these lines will look back over six months, they will feel the point of my remarks Some of you six months ago were happy now you may be wretched; some of you then looking forward to joy and happiness in the dim distance, have found thorns where you expected roses. Some who then were poor and miserable, now are well off, able to enjoy a perusal of these lines and appreciate the change which six months of time may produce. 
               But moralizing isn't in my line. I'll go back to my story for it is now near its close, and I know the reader must be as anxious as I am to "see it out." 
               Remember that six months have elapsed since our characters have appeared before us. 
               It is midnight. Mary Brennon sits in the room where we have so often painted her as a fair being blessed in her happiness, the angel of light to a fond young husband. Her face, once so rosy, is pale; her figure, once so gracefully rounded, is thin; her expression is worn and desolate. There beside the lamp she sits, and often presses her hands against her forehead as if it ached with pain, and ever and anon long drawn sighs heave up from her bosom. At each distant sound heard from the street, made by some passer-by, she starts. When it has died away again, she sadly sinks down into her seat. She is waiting for her husband. 
               Midnight is passed-morning, yet dark and gloomy is ushered in. Dark and gloomy as her own prospects. Patiently still she sits there. One, two, three hours have been told by the clock, yet the dim lamp burns and yet the wife waits. 
               Ah! She hears footsteps, they are approaching, they cease to be heard when they arrive at the threshold-the door bell is rung. She springs to her feet, at last he has come! 
               Quickly she opens the door and he enters. Friendly as he used to do-with his clear manly brow and his spotless cheek flushed with joy only, at meeting his true, fond wife? 
               No! Who is it that enters? It is the wreck of Charles Brennon. His face is flushed, but it is the cursed hue of rum that stains it. His eyes are sunk beneath his brow and his hollow cheek and wasted form show what six months of dissipation have done for him. His cheeks are darkly flushed, and as he enters the hall he has to steady himself by leaning against the wall. His wife observes his state, but does not reprove him. 
               WOMAN, what a suffering angel you can be! Man, what a heartless fiend you can become when you yield to other influences than those which bless the domestic altar, the fireside at home. 
               "M-Mary, is sup-supper ready!" stammered Charles as he came in. 
               "It was eight hours ago!" she replied sadly. "Oh Charles, why have you staid out so late? I have been so wretched waiting for you!" 
               "Wretch-wretched? Why you ought to have b-been along with us, me and father and Cat-Catlin have had such a jolly spree. We've drank our three-three bottles apiece, and stood it like men. That Cat-Catlin is a trump-a good fellow, he pro-proposed your health and we dr-drank it. Yes we did!" 
               "Charles, I care not for healths, come in and go to bed!" 
               "To bed, this time of night? Why my beauty-bud y-you must be crazy. We haven't spent half the night?" 
               "Charles it is nearly four o'clock. Do come, my husband, please come!" 
               "Near-nearly four o'clock, then it is most time to go to bed. Mary have you got sup-supper ready?" 
               "Yes Charles but you need rest, you do not need food at this hour!" 
               "Yes I do, I want some lobster salad and some br-brandy an' water!" 
               "There is no brandy in the house, Charles!" 
               "NO BRANDY? Why M-Mary I bought a demijohn only a day or two ago of old Otard from my friend Rossborne and you know it!" 
               "But you and your friends have drank it all up!" 
               "Have we? Well if it's drank we can't get it back again, but I say M-Mary, I must have a drink to settle my stomach and make me sleep-can-can't you go to the druggists round the corner for me and get some? They keep watch p-pull the night bell and they'll let you in. Tell 'em it's for a sick man a poor fellow a dyin' of the chol-cholera!" 
               "Oh Charles, you need no more liquor, do let me take you to your bed!" 
               "M-Mary do you think I'm drunk? I know what I want. I'm too sober now, I couldn't sleep. One more snifter of old cogniac would make me say now I lay me down to sleep, I pray-I've forgot the rest. I knew it all when I was a child. Come ain't you goin' after the brandy?" 
               "Charles, please do not drink any more to-night?" 
               "Why should-shouldn't I? I left our old daddy, your father and my father-in-law as drunk as a coot not a half an hour ago. I don't like to see him takin' to drink neither, for the business is going to the devil. But then if luck comes up right what do we care for business. I've got a whole package of tickets on the "consolidated, of Maryland, and the old man is in for the chances too!" 
               "Oh Charles, Charles, I wish you had never seen a lottery ticket!" 
               "Why, old gal didn't I win a prize and buy you a five thousand dollar set of diamonds?" 
               "Yes Charles, but do you forget that last week you sold those very diamonds to raise money to spend in the same way?" 
               "Well, that is a fact, but when I draw the next prize I'll buy you more. Now don't make a fool of yourself and cry, if you do d-n me if I don't go out on another spree. Wipe up your eyes; come-I'll go to bed but I must have some brandy to cure my headache in the morning!" 
               Brennon staggered in and his wife followed. She did not up-braid him, but tears like ice-drops frozen by the wintery hand of grief, slowly rolled down her pale cheeks. 
               Lottery dealers, look at that true picture and if you have wives and daughters, feel for the suffering victims of your thieving practices. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLVIII. 
               ANOTHER scene. Visit with me the parlor of Mr. Montrose, in the same cottage which a little more than six months ago he mortgaged to Tullius Catlin. Do you remember the lovely daughter whose money her father spent to buy lottery tickets with? She is there and by her side sits Tullius Catlin. 
               She does not seem happy that he is there, for although he is pouring the dulcet words of love and flattery in her ear, she sits cold and passive as if he was reciting a lesson. She does not seem to feel that his burning libertine eye is riveted upon her graceful, voluptuous form, as the serpent's is upon the bird it wishes to "charm" to its destruction-she does not seem to hear his words, but at intervals she replies. Let us listen to what he says, and see if he knows how to make love now as well as he did when he ruined poor, noble Constance Morley. 
               "Miss Hettie," he said, "why will you ever treat me so coldly. For months I have worshipped at your feet, have endeavored to prove my love and devotion to you. Your father favors my suit; why are you so cold, why do you act so heartless to me?" 
               "I am not acting heartlessly Mr. Catlin. I do not love you, never have, never can! I hope you are too much of a man to even wish to accept a hand which cannot be accompanied by a heart!" 
               "But Miss Hettlo you would love me after we were married; I am willing to risk it?" 
               "So am not I, Sir; I know myself and think I know you! Besides, by a friendly hand that watches over your every step, I have been warned, was warned when you made your first visit to me. Did you ever know one Constance Morley?" 
               The villain started and turned pale at her sudden announcement of that name.-But in a moment he recovered his presence of mind and replied: 
               "Yes, I knew a woman of loose character once of that name, at one time I believe a mistress to Willis or some other person-but what of her?" 
               "Who seduced, ruined and then abandoned her, Mr. Catlin?" 
               "I do not know, but as I have nothing to do with the person you speak of, I am wondering why you ask!" 
               "Because, Mr. Catlin, I abhor deceit. I am satisfied that you, through a mock-marriage effected the ruin of a pure, noble-hearted young girl. That you have murdered her mother who sunk broken-hearted to the grave after she had heard of her 
                     danghter's
                     daughter's
                   shame! You need not deny this, sir, I am satisfied of its truth. And now on one condition I will keep all I know a secret from my family-from my father, and from my brave, good brother, who will soon be home to protect his sister. That condition is that you leave this house, never put your foot in it again or speak to me!" 
               "Well, Miss Montrose, you are kind in your exactions. Do you know that this house belongs to me?" 
               "This house, my home, my father's home, sir?" 
               "Yes, your home only by my sufferance. Your father mortgaged this house to me over six months ago. The mortgage is now overdue. Besides, I hold his notes for lent money which covers all your furniture and more too, and if I chose I could turn you houseless, penniless out in the world. Had you not better relent and share this cottage with me!" 
               "No sir! No! I would, if what you say is true, for I doubt your every word, I would rather go and live in a garret and as I hear poor girls do in this city, at making shirts for eight cents a piece, live on bread and water, work from early dawn until the midnight bell had tolled, than to reside in a palace with a wretch like you! Go, sir, I scorn and defy you! Do your worst, the world is wide, there are some christians in it who will not let vice triumph over virtue. 
               Poor girl, how little she knew of christianity, as it exists in New York, of the christianity which requires wealth to draw forth its piety. How little did she know of the justice which cannot see a crime while it wears golden spectacles, and can damn innocence if it has not the gold to pay its way. 
               Catlin cowered beneath the look of scorn and rose and left the room-left the house which indeed was all too securely his own. As he passed out he met Mr. Montrose, who greeted him cordially and asked him to return. 
               "I cannot sir, to-day, but I shall at an early period!" said Catlin. 
               "You seem by your tone to be angry, Mr. Catlin," said Montrose. 
               "No, sir, not angry, but a little annoyed, slandered and abused by your daughter, whom you know I have loved so well, it is but natural that I should feel annoyed. You are aware, too, that the mortgage on that house is unpaid and that I have a right to foreclose!" 
               "Yes, too true, but I have been unfortunate and-" 
               "You have not paid any one of those notes over due, which I hold against you, the total amount being $7,500!" 
               "Yes, it is so, but you will give me time, a little time and I can meet all and pay all!" 
               Mr. Montrose, I have been disposed to favor and aid you all the time, have proved my disposition to do so by advancing money whenever you wanted it. But, sir, I ask, is it natural that when insulted and wronged by those whom I have befriended, I should not feel it. Sir, as your friend, after wooing her for nearly six months, I offered my hand and fortune to your daughter this morning!" 
               "Did she refuse you?" 
               "Refused me, sir, and added insult to the injury. Charged me with faults not mine own, and told me to leave a house from which you know I have a legal right to drive every occupant." 
               "The girl must be crazy-do not be hasty, let me see and reason with her. Give me a little time and I am sure all will be right. Some one must have been setting her against you-I never had a fault to find with you!" 
               "It is true, Sir, but I cannot be trifled with. I do not love money, I have more than I need, but I will not place it in ungrateful hands!" 
               "We are not, at least Mr. Catlin I am no ungrateful. Do look over it and I will right the matter. The girl shall listen to reason. You are my choice, I have been proud and happy to think that soon you would be my son-in-law. And now rest assured she shall be your wife! Do not be hasty-farewell for a little while, come again to-morrow." 
               Catlin stood a moment before the door after Mr. Montrose entered the house. Then as he passed on down the street, he muttered: 
               "My wife; her father says she shall be my wife! I think he is a mile wide of the mark, for as a wife I would not have her but as a mistress, I will. Yes, I will humble her proud spirit, she shall kneel and beg favors from the man she professes to scorn, and when she is humbled then will I spurn her from my feet. By the Eternal who made me, neither man nor woman ever scorned me or shall without getting a full return!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLVIII. 
               IT was night, the time the same as given in our two last chapters. 
               Constance Morley was pacing to and fro in a chamber which was elegantly furnished. Her form more thin than it was when last we saw her, and her face pale as a lily, betokened the suffering she had undergone. Yet, she was beautiful still. Majestic and queenly in mien and form, she was one of those who never can fade so far as to lose the semblance of beauty which nature has stamped upon them. 
               She seemed to be angry, for her brow was knit, her lips compressed and her dark eyes flashed as she paced to and fro across the carpet. She was not alone in the room.-Seated in an easy chair, in his dressing gown and embroidered slippers, was Mr. De Gerneau. He seemed perfectly at his ease, for with careless nonchalance he smoked a cigar, regardless of the presence of the lady. 
               She for a time, paced the floor in silence, seeming to try to control the passion in her breast, then turning to him, she said: 
               "Albert De Gerneau, do you remember what you promised me, when six months ago I trusted, blindly trusted you, yielded myself, soul and body to you? You do not answer me! You are silent! Does the consciousness of your having deceived me, seal your tongue? Speak, or are you afraid to speak before a woman. When I met you I thought that you was brave, yes, brave and honorable. But I have been deceived, you are, at best, but a coward, and honor never knew a spot in your breast where it could find a temporary resting place, not to speak of a home. You won me to your arms, not by love, for I am one of those who can love but once. I became yours on one condition, and that was that you should revenge my wrongs. Hate, REVENGE, and not love, made me yours. For six long, hateful months I have borne with your disgusting caresses, because I knew you to be base enough, and thought you was possessed of enough brute courage to kill him.-You promised to do it, but liar and coward as you are you dared not do it. You frown; why do you not curse a little. Your lips are more used to lies and blasphemy than to gentler or purer words. Once you could flatter and wheedle one who knew you not, into the idea that you were a gentleman, or at least a man. Now I know you, and despise you as a lying cowardly wretch. Yes, I lost, fallen as I am, feel that my deepest, degradation is in my association with you!" 
               "Woman, I will hear no more! Leave this room, and forever; or I will strike you to the earth!" cried De Gerneau, rising. 
               "Yes!" she replied, and her eyes flashed like those of an enraged tigress. "Yes, you would strike a woman, but before a man you would crouch like the hound which licks the hand that beats him. You wish me to leave your apartments. I shall, for I feel that the lowest brothel in this city is superior to these rooms when you are in them. You will strike me? That was what you said-now do it! I dare you to do it-coward. I defy you! 
               De Gerneau, his face flushed as red as fire with anger, his whole frame quivering with excitement, snatched a cane from a corner of the room, and with it raised, advanced towards her. 
               Quicker by far than I can write this line, was her movement. She drew from the bosom of her dress a small ivory handled pistol and levelled its barrel of glittering steel at his breast. She did not speak-she smiled, so calmly that it did not seem that she held death in her hand. He had never seen her smile so before, and with the cane uplifted in his hand he paused and trembled too. 
               "For God's sake don't shoot, Constance!" he cried. 
               "I told you you were a coward!" she cried. "Yes, frown again, and now offer to strike if you dare. I have expected that this hour would arrive, and I have prepared for it. And now Sir, lay down that cane. Do not hesitate, for if I am not obeyed in all I demand, so sure as there is a GOD above us, I'll send a bullet through your black heart. Stop, Sir, do not move or turn, the finger of a wronged, desperate woman is on the trigger of the pistol, it needs but a single touch to send you to eternity." 
               "Do not, Constance, dear Constance, do not keep that weapon pointed towards me, it might go off accidentally. I know you are only jesting with me!" 
                
               "Sir, I jest no more! Obey my ORDERS now, or abide by the consequence. I am the commander now, you have been in power long enough. Lay that cane down-no delay, Sir, do it before I can count three! One, two,-." 
               The cowardly wretch dropped the cane to the floor, for her dark eye glanced calm and clear over the deadly barrel. 
               "Now, Sir, kneel! You have knelt to me before, kneel now-hesitate if you dare. Ah, that is well-you are in the proper position of a slave. What shall I do with you-you were about to strike me just now-ought I not to strike you, or to spurn you like a dog from my feet? I ought, but that would be labor badly bestowed. Let me think-Ah! you have a face which I once thought to be passably good looking, you have a superb beard and moustache, you pride yourself on the beauty of your face-and yet I will humble that pride. Stop, Sir, do not offer to rise or I will lay you so low that there will be no resurrection for you. I only wish to do as the camel does to one it hates, as it does to a cruel master-merely to spit in your face!" 
               These words were accompanied by the action they indicated. His face flushed as red as a boiled lobster-his eyes flashed with deadly anger. Could looks have blasted her, she would have sunk beneath the glances he cast. But he dared not move. She kept her eye on his, the pistol was at his very breast-one touch of her finger and he knew he would die-and he did not possess the courage to meet death, and bore the indignity. She smiled in bitter scorn, and said- 
               "Now, Sir, you a moment ago wished me to leave these apartments. I am going to do so; and I am going to do what you dare not do-avenge my own wrongs; and beware, Sir, how you interfere with any of my plans. I am now desperate, fearless of all consequences, reckless of all danger, ready for murder! Yes, to MURDER!" 
               She turned away and left the room. Not until she had gone did that recreant thing arise from his kneeling posture. When he did, he looked around as if he feared she would return. 
               "That woman is the devil!" he muttered. "I believe she would as soon murder me as not! She is a splendid woman, though, and I'm almost sorry I didn't shoot Catlin to please her, but it was too great a risk. Catlin is a splendid shot-I've an aversion to have a bullet exploration made into the unknown regions of my corporeal person. Well, let her go, there's other flowers in the field-but I wouldn't like to stand in Catlin's shoes when she sets an eye upon him!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLIX. 
               
                  
                     AETER
                     AFTER
                   Mr. Montrose parted with Catlin at his door, he entered his mortgaged house. A frown was on his brow, and it darkened as his lovely daughter sprung forward with her accustomed look and tone of gladness to meet him with a kiss. He repulsed her coldly. 
               "Father, dear father, what is the matter? What have I done to deserve this?" she said. 
               "Hettie, I have just left Mr. Catlin!" he replied. 
               "Yes, father, and he has just left here, by my command. He is an insolent villian, he has annoyed me with his disgusting attentions to long; and now, to crown all, and to try to force me to endure his presence, he tells me that this house is his!" 
               "Alas, if he claims it, it is his, and we are homeless!" said the father. "Hettie, why have you such a bitter prejudice against him? He is genteel, good looking, well educated, and somewhat accomplished!" 
               "Yes, father, accomplished in villainy. What do you think of a man who would ruin a father and force him to suicide, and then with deliberate and fiendish malignity, by a mock marriage, ruin his poor girl?" 
               "What do you mean, child, what do you mean?" 
               "Just what I say father. He has done what I have spoken. And I believe that to gain me as another victim to his lusts, he has been entrapping you in his snares, perhaps ruining you!" 
               "No, no child-Catlin has ever been a good friend to me. His purse has ever been open to me!" 
               "Did he not require security, father, for every cent he loaned?" 
               "Yes, for we were strangers when I was deeply involved and I had to borrow from some source-I could not expect a favor without security. I mortgaged this house and its furniture to him. Since then he has loaned me money whenever I have asked it, on my individual note, without asking an endorsement! I owe him a great deal. I am at his mercy if he is a villain; but Hettie, I think you are mistaken in him. He appears to love you!" 
               "Love me, father? Yes, he does love me! He loves me as the wolf loves the lamb! Father, how have you spent the money you have got from him?!' 
               "Hettie, I am ashamed to tell you, but I have risked all and lost all on the desperate, but sometimes fortunate game of buying lottery tickets. I hoped to win back all that I had lost, but misfortune has met me at every turn. I have spent every dollar that I could raise, and now I stand by your side, my sweet child, under a roof not my own, without a dollar in the world. I had hoped, believing him to be a gentleman and man of honor, who possessed ample means and a kind heart, he would become your husband and relieve me from my present incumbrances. But if he indeed is a villain, though I should be turned into the street penniless in my old age, I would not sacrifice you my child. I have been wrong, imprudent, and wicked, and you may curse me-" 
               "Curse you, father? oh NEVER! I know that you would not sacrifice me, your pet child for gold, or intentionally render me unhappy. Do not blame yourself, or despond. I am young and strong and I can work. I can draw, teach music, sew, do many things. We will not feel poor, even if we have to leave our home. I can earn a support for us all and dear brother will soon be home to aid us!" 
               "Oh, Hettie, I would not have your brother know all, I would not have him see you at work for your support; see us steeped in poverty. He would despise his grey-haired father who had squandered all that we possessed. I would rather meet death than him, now. Hettie, if you have cast off Catlin and mortally offended him, we are ruined! Oh cannot you temporise with him at, least until your brother returns to his post. Let him think you will relent bye and bye. Oh do this for your father's sake. I will not ask you to wed him, but temporise with him or I shall go crazy, and perhaps in my wildness bury my shame in a suicides grave!" 
               "Dear Father, do not talk thus. Do not! There are tears on your cheek. Oh father let me kiss them off-I will do anything but marrying him! That I cannot do!" 
               "Bless you my sweet child, bless you. Oh now keenly I feel the wrong I have done you and all my family. But if a little time can be gained I may save something-I have friends who, if they do not know how nearly I am ruined, may help me, and fortune may change. If modern friends know that a man is really ruined they will not do anything for him; if he does not need their services they are proffered without stint. Oh how well I know this heartless world! Now Hettie, let me go and apologise to Catlin; you temporise with him for a while, let him think that in time he can conquer your prejudice and gain your hand, and I may yet recover from this trouble, at least your brother will not have the mortification of seeing us turned out of doors!" 
               "Apologise to him, my father? Oh has it come to this, that you who are so proud and noble must condescend to bow to a vile wretch like him! Oh, father it is indeed hard! I do not know how I can speak to him without a shudder! But for your sake I will try!" 
               "Bless you my child. Do not let your mother dream of this matter. God may yet help us safely out of it. Let us go to the sitting room!" 
               After Catlin left Mr. Montrose, he hurried down the street toward Broadway. On turning the corner he met a lady who was closely shawled and veiled, but whose tall and elegant figure seemed familiar to him. He however was in no mood to observe beauty just then and would have passed on, but at a gentle beckon of the lady's hand, given as if she desired to speak to him, he paused. 
               "What can I do for you lady, or whom have I the honor of addressing?" he asked, bowing profoundly. 
               The lady slowly raised her veil, and he beheld the pale features of Constance Morley. She did not speak, but her eyes seemed to pierce his very soul. For a moment he seemed rivetted to the ground as if under the spell of some fell enchantress. Then hurriedly he spoke. 
               "What do you want woman? If it is money, here take my purse and trouble me no more!" 
               "Tullius Catlin, I do not want your money. I seek revenge! The avenger is on your track. Nay do not start, though I could slay you on the spot, I would not do it now. You have got to endure a portion of the misery I have felt. You shall yet rot in a dungeon. I know now your associates and your deeds and crimes. It is I who have exposed you to Hettie Montrose-it is I who will save her from your toils, save her father from ruin!" 
               "Woman, curse you, you shall suffer for this. What prevents me from crushing you with a single blow?" 
               "This, coward, this!" she said, and he started back a pace as the glittering barrel of a pistol met his eye and he heard the click of its lock. 
               She laughed as she saw his momentary tremor. 
               "You men are all cowards!" she said. "Now Mr. Catlin, you are warned, you may go! Remember, be on your guard as much as ever, do your worst or your best to avoid me, but my vengeance, slow but sure, will follow you. I have friends, powerful ones-those who will obey me in every wish!" 
               She turned and rapidly walked up Broadway. Catlin's first impulse was to follow her, but after a moment's hesitation he pursued his original course, muttering as he went: 
               "That woman must be got out of the way. She has more of the devil in her nature than I dreamed she had! Her friends are powerful she says. I must have her tracked and find out who they are. She says she knows my crime and associates, but that is a mere boast I guess. That woman Caneouse, is the only one outside who could betray me-she knows too much, I wish she was dead!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER L. 
               Now reader we will follow Constance Morley, and see if we can discover the secret of her boasted power, find out who are the friends she spoke of. 
               After she left Catlin, with rapid steps she proceeded up Broadway, turning once or twice to see if she was followed. Several blocks above where she had parted from him, she turned to the left and after walking up the street some two or three blocks, paused before a large mansion, built in modern style of marble and free stone. Its size, architecture, and the ground around it occupying at least one-fourth of the entire block, showed it to be the abode of wealth. 
               She paused a moment at the gateway, looked at the house and shuddered. "It is fearful," she said-"it is a horrible thing to sell one's self for gold, but I must have money to gain my revenge-yes, it must be done, and when I have accomplished all, I can die, die as my father did!" 
               She passed on to the door and rung the bell. A liveried servant appeared. 
               "Is your master at home?" she asked. 
               "He is, Madam, in his library!" 
               "Bear this card to him!" 
               "I will, Madam, be pleased to walk into the drawing room. I will return in a moment!" 
               Now reader for a new character in our book, one however that is true, the picture of a millionaire banker, whom you can sometimes see rolling down Wall street in his elegant carriage. Here is his portrait. 
               Seated in a large easy chair, cushioned and backed with velvet, his feet pillowed on an ottoman, you will observe a man at least sixty years of age, though by his foppish dress he attempts to appear younger. 
               His fade was purple by the use of wines and liquors, his frame swelled, bloated and gouty from over-living. He wore a wig to conceal his baldness and Ballard's hair dye had been called into requisition to dye his eyebrows and whiskers. His reddened eyes, thick lips, and sensual expression betokened his disposition. There he sat, robed in a stuffed and quilted morning gown of flowered satin, his gouty feet slippered in velvet, the personification of a wealthy old roue whose race of pleasure had become a painful tottering wreck toward the grave. 
               The servant whom we saw below, entered and with a low obeisance handed his master the card Constance had sent up. 
               A deeper flush came over the red face of the millionaire as he read the name-a chuckle gurgled out from his thick lips! 
               "By the jolly God of Love-it's her-I thought she'd accept my last offer, she's a magnificent woman!" Higgins, how do I look to-day, eh?" 
               "Fine, sir, uncommonly fine!" 
               "Well, send my valet to me, instantly, sprinkle Boudoir No. three-number three, remember, with the essence of violets, a few drops of otto of roses, and a little of Lubin's odor cicle-let in just light enough to make the statues look soft and life-like, after that is done conduct the lady to it, and say I will be there in a few moments. Set the new musical contrivance in the rear room to work, and start the fountain of flowers! Hurry up my valet, I must prepare to make a favorable impression, for she is a magnificent creature!" 
               The servant bowed and retired. In a moment another appeared, a sleek, dignified little Frenchman. 
               "Perot, help me to my dressing room. You must use all your skill to dress me splendidly as soon as possible-you must make me look killingly handsome!" 
               "Oui, Messieur!" replied the valet. "It shall be done tout suite, et toute parfaiment. I shall make you look no more zan thirty-five years, by my honuare!" 
               With evident pain, assisted by the valet, the millionaire hobbled from the room. 
               And now I am about to do what for the world I would not, were a lady in the case, enter a dressing room. I did, once, by the foolish misdirection of a stupid servant, get into a lady's dressing room, but my stay was 
                     brife
                     brief
                  , I can tell you-I knew in an instant that I was in the wrong box. I heard a faint scream and saw-NOTHING! I left quicker than a rocket from a little boy's hand on a Fourth of July night. 
               The dressing room we are about to visit is that of our millionaire. Look at it. See the cosmetics which load yonder table; paints, white, red and black-here a wig, there a false set of teeth; here pads for the legs, there pads to fill out the chest-back and front braces, supporters, &c. All kinds of pomades, complexion renovators. Mirrors surround the room. A lounge beside every bath. And yet how miserable the millionaire who can command all these things, when compared with one of our penniless boys who can earn but a scanty living, whose cheeks are made rosy by exercise, but who with strong limbs, free from diseases, can leap into the flashing lake or river, and there in the God-given bath refresh himself after the hour of labor is over. 
               Yes, see that old libertine hobble in on his gouty legs and between a grunt and a groan mutter: 
               "D-n this gout, it will be the death of me yet. Perot, prepare me a Regenervating bath, a la Ciprico, quick!" 
               "Oui Messieur, zat Messieur Ciprico is un bon gentilhoume, he is great benefactor to ze peoples to invent zat bath!" 
               "Hurry, and disrobe me!" 
                
               "Oui Messieur, I shall be quick as no time!" 
               Reader, as we are modest it is time we left. 
               Constance remained several minutes in the drawing-room before the servant returned. But her time was occupied in regarding the magnificent paintings which adorned the walls, paintings by the most famous artists of ancient and modern days. When the servant came in he made a low obeisance and said: 
               "Madame, my master is engaged for a few moments on important business, he begs that you will permit me to conduct you to a more pleasant sitting room where he will join you in a few moments!" 
               Constance followed the servant who conducted her to the "boudoir No. 3." 
               As she entered the room, she paused in utter astonishment at the scene before her The low, sweet sound of 
                     fairry-like
                     fairy-like
                   music and the gentle plashing of falling waters fell on her ear. She advanced into the room, which seemed to be peopled with beautiful creations of life. She thought she was in a fairy land, surrounded by nymphs and goddesses. Still further she advanced, she saw a fountain which threw flowers up amid the ever ascending and descending mass of silvery spray. Over it, as if stooping to pick one of the flowers from its nest of diamonds, bent the form of a very Venus, and the light falling through rose-hued curtains, fell so soft and flesh-like upon it, that the statue seemed to live. The walls of the lofty room were hung in perpendicular folds, with satin of delicate pink, orange and blue, the blended hues producing a kind of dreamy rainbow-light. 
               Statues were scattered all around-here a Cupid and a Psyche-there an Eve gazing upon the fatal apple from the forbidden tree-here an angel just poising its wings for a flight-there a satyr just seizing a lovely 
                     nympth
                     nymph
                   of Dian's matchless train, while in the distance bending her bow, could be seen the bright goddess herself, about to stop his proceedings by sending an arrow through his heart. And the light, coming softly in through curtains of pink, was so disposed as to give each figure the appearance of life. A rich, almost overpowering fragrance seemed to be borne by invisible wings fanningly through the room, such a fragrance as comes from the spicy flower-groves of the south when evening winds cool the brows of tropic lovers. Low couches, wrought curiously of silk and satin, so as to resemble beds of roses and other flowers, were scattered here and there. 
               Constance looked in vain for the source whence the music so sweet and heavenly, emanated. A dreamy feeling came over her, and astonished, she sunk upon an ottoman near the fountain of flowers. When she had first seen the apartments of Catlin, she had thought them rich and elegant beyond comparison; thought them the ne plus ultra of elegance, richness and luxury. But in comparison with this, they seemed no more than a beggar's hovel. In this lofty apartment the symmetry of the curtained walls was not destroyed by lascivious pictures, and the hues so delicately blended by the dropping curtain folds broken by them. The Statues, from the hands of eminent artists, were, it is true voluptuous, such as would excite maddening passions in the breast of a man; but to a woman they seemed more chaste, to her more especially so, for she was alone, even like a Diana with her 
                     Nympths
                     Nymphs
                   bathing around her. 
               The music still was heard, she breathed the rich fragrance of the air and almost sunk into slumber, forgetting where she was. But the voice of the millionaire aroused her. He stood by her side: 
               "Beautiful lady-you have come at last." he said. "Have I at last, after such long entreaty, so many brilliant offers, won you away from the happy possessor of so many peerless charms? Will you become the queen of my palace-the fairy angel to preside over my destiny?" 
               "A truce to compliments, sir," she said, assuming a sweet smile, and not withdrawing her small, white hand, which he had seized between his huge paws, "I have re- ceived your last note, and if you are willing to support me in my extravagance, for I am very extravagant, I will on certain conditions consent to remain here in your magnificent mansion. I have left DeGerneau, and FOREVER! A mean, soulless wretch, devoid of honor, and principle, I despise myself for ever having countenanced him!" 
               "Oh, I am so glad to hear you say so!" cried the old voluptuary, seating himself beside her. "You mentioned conditions just now, my queen of houri's, what are they?" 
               "That I can have one week of time and ten thousand dollars placed at my disposal. I have a scheme of vengeance to work on this base DeGerneau, which will occupy that time-then I am yours!" 
               "Ten twenty thousand dollars, are at your command, but the time-why delay fair lady, when all here is at your command, to take possession of apartments which no queen can rival?" 
               "Because, my dear friend (oh how sweetly she smiled upon him as she emphasized the dear) I wish to test your love and satisfy a whim of mine, If you love me so much as you protest, you will let me have my own way!" 
               "You shall my angel, you shall?" cried the old libertine, gluing kiss after kiss from his libidinous lips, upon her hand, as if he would eat it up. "The money, a coach of your own, and what servants you require are at your command. And now tell me what you think of this little boudoir?" 
               "It is a paradise, a very heaven!" she plied. 
               "With you as its divinity it will be!"-he said. "But I have two others, one is so like a garden that though all is artificial, you are tempted to pluck the fruit and flowers from the trees and bending stems; birds, also artificial, sing to you, and running waters gurgling over mossy stones, lull you to sleep. And I have yet another which I call the Palace of Love, where the art and skill of every painter of fame has vied to produce some excelling picture to out-rival rivalry. The first named I will show you to-day, for there we will dine;-the next you will see when the week has expired!" 
               "What magnificence! This must have cost you a fortune!" 
               "Oh no, not much, only eight or nine hundred thousand dollars!" replied the 
                     millinaire
                     millionaire
                  , carelessly.
                     The reader may deem this an extravagant but it is not. I am drawing a picture from life, and the place I describe is not five blocks from Broadway, and not ten from Union Square. It and its furniture cost its owner little less than $1,000,000.
                   "You have not seen all yet, my fair queen. Go to yonder window and look into the covered courtyard of the house, and tell me what you see!" 
               She obeyed, and as she drew aside the window curtain, she exclaimed with all the eagerness of a pleased child: 
               "Oh, how beautiful! how beautiful!" 
               "What do you see?" 
               "Oh, such a lovely garden, even at this season teeming with fruits and flowers; fountains sending showers of silver high up in the air, and those beautiful women walking about-who are they?" 
               "Your servants, lady-you are queen here!" said the old voluptuary, gazing gloatingly upon her tall and elegant form, 
               It is now time that we glanced at him, and see if Perot, his French valet, has any skill in making up a man. Don't laugh at the words, "making up a man," fair reader, but know that more than half the dandified things you meet in Broadway are made up. Do you see that full breasted gentleman there with the white kid gloves, tinged a little with pink, who sports and twirls that gold headed rattan, and with a jet black beard and moustache, tries to look noble and manly to the ladies, and fierce and haughty to the men he meets? 
               Would you like to know who he is? Well he is a gambler, who was brought up to the tailor's trade but found gambling more to his taste and profit. He has been "on the town" over twenty years, and disease and dissipation have left their marks upon him. Now we will see how he is made up. In form he is really thin, crooked, deformed and worn out. Yet how well he looks. 
               His 
                     breat
                     breast
                   is padded with about six pounds of cotton, his whiskers, moustach and hair are all colored, his cheeks are painted, his eye-brows are pencilled, the very calves of his legs are padded, and his swelling hips provided with side bustles. His white teeth were made by Castle. The glittering pin in his shirt bosom is a splendid imitation; you can buy just such a gold-headed cane for two dollars and a half from "Our Jake," at Ciprico's, under the Girard House. When you see a "handsome man" slowly promenading Broadway, think of pasteboard, bucram, cotton, false teeth, padding and hair-dye. 
               But we'll try another chapter. I am sick of this sickly subject. 
             
             
               CHAPTER LI. 
               ANOTHER day in our history. Catlin sat in his rooms, pale and perturbed, more annoyed than we have yet seen him. He had a pen in his hand, but was not writing. Frown after frown upon his brow, and now and then a muttered curse, indicated that there was something wrong in the wind, something at least which did not suit him. 
               A knock at the door caused his face to flush up and he started to his feet, turning fiercely towards the door as if he expected some enemy. Recovering his composure, he said: 
               "Come in!" The door opened, and Mr. Grab entered. 
               "Ah Catlin, my boy, how goes it?" 
               "D-d bad!" 
               "Why, what's the matter? You look as sour as a green crab apple, and speak as gruff as a boatswain short of grog?" 
               "Matter enough-I'm annoyed-I wish there wasn't a woman in the world. You know Constance Morley the girl I ruined and cast off?" 
               "Yes, the one I played parson for! What of her? Has she committed suicide or any other romantic folly?" 
               "No, I wish to God she had! Instead of being ruined, she is at the top of the heap. She has foiled me in one plan, she knows our secrets, and we are in danger. She has powerful friends, and I do not know who they are. This morning, only a few minutes ago, she rode down Broadway in a splendid carriage with liveried driver and footmen, and as she passed she smiled such a smile as only can be born from intense hate. I know not why, but I fear her, and she is the first human being I ever feared!' 
               "That is strange. I thought you didn't fear the devil!" 
               "I do not, he is too much my friend to cause fear-but she is worse than the devil!" 
               Another knock was heard at the door. At the summons, the door opened and Mr. Montrose entered. 
               Bowing with his usual studied politeness, he said: 
               "Good morning Mr. Catlin. I hope I do not interrupt you in your private business!" 
               "Not at all, Sir; I am not engaged. Let me introduce you to my friend Mr. Grab!" 
               "Mr. Grab, I am your most humble servant: a fine morning Sir!" 
               "Very, Sir!" replied Grab, and noticing by a sign from Catlin that the latter wished to be alone with his visitor, he added: "I regret that I am not able at present from lack of time to improve our acquaintance; shall be happy at another time; I have an important engagement; was just going out as you came in-good morning, Sir; good morning, Catlin!" 
               "Good morning!" responded the gentlemen, and he was gone. 
               "A very fine man is Mr. Grab; highly respectable and very wealthy!" said Catlin after Grab went out. 
               "He appears to be a fine man, very polite!" replied Montrose. 
               "Yes, he has traveled much!" 
                
               "Well, Mr. Catlin, I called to see you in regard to that difficulty last evening. I have enquired into it, and my daughter feels that she acted hastily. The truth is that some one has been writing her anonymous letters about a Miss Morley, or Moreland, or some such name, and endeavoring to set her against you. I told her that it was unjust to you, 
                     ond
                     and
                   very wrong for her to form an opinion from the statements of those who needed an anonymous signature to cloak their information; that truth ever came out boldly and without disguise. She acknowledged that she was hasty, and although she is not prepared to accept your offer at present, until she knows you better, she hopes you will not discontinue your visits.' 
               "Really, Mr. Montrose, you know how warm an interest and how high a respect I have ever entertained for yourself and family; but the repulse of Miss Hettie last evening was so bitter, so uncalled for, that I cannot see how in justice to myself I can renew my visits." 
               "But Mr. Catlin, my dear friend, remember that she is an experienced, warm-hearted, impulsive girl. She spoke in haste, and in her hours of reflection regrets and recalls her words. Do forget them!" 
               "Since you desire it, I will try to do so!" 
               "And you will visit us again? Come, take tea with us this evening!" 
               "If I am not otherwise particularly engaged, I will!" 
               "And our little money matters; I will arrange them very shortly! I hope you are not in a hurry!" 
               "Not exactly, but Mr. Montrose I have entered into some very heavy speculations lately, and I do not know how suddenly I may be called upon to raise a large amount of funds. But so long as all goes right, I do not think I shall be forced to trouble you!" 
               Catlin emphasized his last words strongly and Montrose understood him. He felt how much he was in the villians power, and he feared him. 
               "All will go right, my friend," he replied, "rest assured of that. My son, Lieutenant Richard Montrose, will soon return from service, and he has ample means to relieve me from embarassment, I am confident!" 
               "Ah, how soon does he return?" 
               "We expect him within a week, he may be delayed longer, but I think not. In truth he may arrive sooner, for it is a long time since he has seen us, and love, family love lends wings to the traveler!" 
               "I shall be most happy to make his acquaintance!" said Catlin. 
               Yet his looks belied his words. He did not wish at that particular juncture to have any fire-eating military brother interfere with his plans for the ruin of a pure and lovely sister. 
               "And you will be sure to come up and see us this evening?" said Mr. Montrose. 
               "I shall try to do so!" replied Catlin. 
               "Thank you, we shall expect you. Good morning!" 
               After Montrose left, Catlin seemed burried in thought for a few moments. He sat silent for a time, then spoke or rather muttered to himself: 
               "I must hurry up matters-she must be mine before he comes, by fair means or foul. But I need not hope to gain her by fair means, I must abduct her, and without her father having any suspicions that I am concerned in the abduction. Have her I will, for she has spurned and slighted me, and I have sworn to humble her patrician pride!" 
               And leaving him to study out another plan of villany, we will open the next chapter in our drama. 
               Before doing so reader, let me ask you a question. Are you not glad that after a couple of scenes more we will ring down the curtain? I am, for like you I'm getting sleepy 
             
             
               CHAPTER LII. 
               A BURGLERS CRIB-was you ever in one reader? No! Why, you haven't seen half the sights in New York yet, for there is a dozen of them, besides full a hundred "fences," or places for depositing stolen goods. Some of these are kept under the sign of pawn-brokers shops, others as exchange offices, others as junk-shops, &c. But there is one crib, the resort of the heavier class of burglers and felons, men who commit no light crimes, and when they do a job, "they do it up," as Captain Tobin says. As it is under police surveillance now, I cannot par-particularly 
                     discribe
                     describe
                   its location at this time. Suffice it then, to say, that at a very cozy and pleasant drinking saloon, in a street which crosses Broadway, and not far from the great thoroughfare, you may almost always find a set of quiet, gentlemanly looking men, mostly Englishmen, who drink their ale, read the papers, and don't seem to do much of anything else. Yet the customers at that house all seem to know each other. Once in a while a rough, ungainly looking man drops in, he is known by most of the others, and a word or two may be exchanged, but he drinks his mug of ale and vanishes. The house is very still-the blinds are always closed in front. There are a few small rooms back for very private parties. Behind a small bar a neat and handsome woman stands, ready to fill the brimming mugs of ale as they are called for. She dresses rather coquettishly in half mourning, to indicate that she is a widow, probably. Yet she is quiet and calm though a lurking devil seems to be glancing in the beautiful eyes which are shaded by long, dark eye-lashes. A boy neatly dressed, stands outside of the bar ready to carry the beverages to her customers. 
               There is nothing to indicate that desperate, or criminal characters resort here, is there reader? Well, go on, by and by "we shall see what we shall see." 
               The next door to the entrance of this shady retreat, is but a private entrance to the same building- Upon a silver plate is neatly engraved a name, but it is not the real name of either the owner or the occupant. We will call the name Delorme for the nonce. Before this door a carriage stops-the driver and footman are liveried. The carriage door is opened, a lady closely veiled descends and though it is the dusk of evening, we need not for a moment hesitate, from her form and her graceful carriage, to say who it is, for Constance Morley cannot disguise herself from one who has seen her once. 
               The footman by her direction, rung the door bell. After a moment's delay the door was opened, and by the fair widow whom we have seen behind the little bar. 
               Madame Delorme, I believe?" said Constance, entering. 
               "That is my name, Madam, but I know not whom I have the honor to receive, or the occasion of this visit!" 
               "The password I give," whispered Constance, "is 'contraband;' 'mum' the countersign, lead me to a private room and you shall know why I have come." 
               "The password and countersign are correct, but ere we go in please order your carriage to proceed up to Broadway or around the corner to wait for you, it might create suspicion here!" 
               "True, I will give my orders!" 
               The carriage moved away, and the two females entered a parlor which was 
                     seperated
                     separated
                   from the bar we have spoken of only by a door. After they got in, and Constance took a seat profferred by the widow, she raised her veil. 
               The latter looked as if she had expected to recognize an old acquaintance. But she was evidently disappointed. 
               "I do not know you!" she said. "How did you become acquainted with our password?" 
               "That I cannot reveal at present. You do not know me, but you do know one Tullius Catlin? 
               The widow started as if an adder had stung her to the heart. First her face was pale as snow, then red as fire. 
               "Know him-HIM?" she cried-"yes, well do I know the cursed villain who betrayed my poor husband and caused him to die in a felons cell where even I could not go to console him in his dying hour! If you are a friend of his, go, go from beneath my roof before I curse you as I have done him!" 
               "Be calm Madame Delorme, I am not his friend, rather am I his deadliest foe. In me you behold one of his last victims. I have come here to seek aid to ruin and destroy him. I could kill him, but that will be no vengeance to me; I want him to die as your husband died-in a prison cell. I want to see him live as long as life and misery mean the same thing! You need not doubt me, I am a woman-women never deceive each other except when influenced by envy or jealousy. No one loves me, I love no one-you cannot, must not doubt me!" 
               "I do not Madam; by what name may I address you?" 
               "Call me Constance, nothing else!" 
               "I will. How can I serve you?" 
               "You have a house which is used as a rendezvous by a class of bold and reckless men, who thinking that the world owes them a living, do not scruple to take it!" 
               "How did you find it out?" 
               "Because I accidentally heard a conversation which occurred between Catlin and one of your visitors, a man who himself seems to dislike Catlin while he fears him!" 
               "Do you know his name?" 
               "I do not. He is a slender, dark-complexioned man, with a large scar on his brow extending down upon his right cheek." 
               "Ah-I think I know this man. Come to the little wicket in the door here, and see if you can recognize him among the men who are setting in yonder room. You need not fear, they cannot see us here!" 
               Constance did as she was desired, looking through a narrow aperture made by a slide in the door. 
               "Yes, he is there-it is the man nearest the window, who is smoking a cigar and reading a newspaper!" she said. 
               "I thought as much. That Lattson is a deep villain, but I think Catlin has got ahead of him about the proceeds of some haul. I heard him swear vengeance my self!" 
               "Can we trust him?" 
               "Yes, if he has a motive. He can be 
                     inflenced
                     influenced
                   by money, or by a desire for revenge!" 
               "I have money, plenty of it, and will not spare it. Can you call him in, that I may have an interview with him?" 
               "Yes, if you desire it, but do not trust him too far, Lattson, is like all other villains, used to crime, liable to be used by the highest bidder!' 
               "I will bid as high as any one-bring him in!" 
               In a few moments the man who combined in himself the qualities of burglar, forger, and counterfeiter, entered the apartment. He looked at Constance distrustfully, for he knew at a glance that she was a lady, and not one of a class with whom he had been used to associate. She observed his embarrassment and at once proceeded to remove it. 
               "You need not fear me, Mr. Lattson," she said, "I have come to get you to do me a favor, and am willing to reward you for it!" 
               "Any thing in reason, Madame! What do you want done?" 
               "You know a fellow named Tullius Catlin?" 
               "D-n him, yes Madame! Forgive me for swearing, but he is a bloody thief, without honor!" 
               You know him to be a thief?" 
               "Yes, Madam, and a receiver too-that's worse, for he hasn't the courage to crack a crib on his own hook!" 
               "Can you prove it so that I can get him into States Prison, if I pay you well?" 
               "Why you see Ma'am, this peaching is rather 
                     aoainst
                     against
                   my principle, besides if I did, I 
                     mignt
                     might
                   get myself into trouble, for since you know my name so will you probably know that I'm on a lay once in a while that the law don't exactly countenance. I'd rather split his wizzen though than eat. He has had some of my best friends 'sent up' and I know he'll get me up if ever he can!" 
               "If you'll procure me proof to convict him so that I can get him imprisoned for ten or fifteen years, I'll give you ten thousand dollars, five thousand the day he is arrested; five thousand more when he is convicted, and have powerful friends to aid you if you get in trouble!" 
               "By thunder, that's talk, Ma'am! Forgive me for roughness, for I aint used to ladies' company, but if you'll do what you say, d-n me if Jack Lattson don't see him through, that's all." 
               "I will do it. See here-there is over ten thousand dollars in that book-there I present you with a thousand to commence your work 
                     wfth
                     with
                  . Be faithful, and I am able to reward you-deceive me, and fear me, for I have power!" 
               "Jupiter, what a pile of flimsies!" muttered the man to himself, thief-like, debating how he could best and easiest get hold of the whole pile. But receiving the thousand dollars she gave him he said: 
               "Than you Ma'am, you shall hear from me soon. Where shall I send word to you?" 
               "Leave it here with Madame Delorme. Now hasten the matter!" 
               "Depend on me Ma am, I will!" 
               The villain left the room-a thief was set to catch a thief. 
               Constance now turned to Madame Delorme, and said: 
               "Do you think he will do it?" 
               "I hope so. He'll do anything for money!" 
               "Well, I have one more thing I want done. Have you among any of your visitors, a genteel looking, powerful man, whom I can get to chastise a man in public who insulted me? I wish to have the person, who pretends to be a gentleman, cowhided and spat upon in a public assembly, and will pay well to have it done!" 
               "Oh, how I'd like to see it done-there's so many of these unmanly puppies that insult us lone women!" cried the widow. "Yes, the very man is in the back room. He is a gentleman, though he is on the cross. Circumstances ruined him! He doesn't say much to any one, but if he gets mad he is awful. He don't curse or swear, he turns pale when he is angry, his lips close together as if he was locking his teeth between each other, and his eye looks green-green as a cat's in the night time. I saw him mad once. He is an American, and a big English fellow cursed him and his flag. and called his mother a hard name. He looked at that Englishman about a minute before he moved, and then it was like a terrier dog springing on a rat. The man had no time to holler before all his teeth were down his throat, his face kicked into a jelly, and the boys carried him off to the hospital where he lay for three months!" 
               "That man will do, let me see him!" 
               The man came in. He did not look like either a criminal or a dangerous man. He was slender, about medium height, quite pale, with light-brown hair and a soft blue eye. His expression was subdued and melancholy. 
               "Lady, Madame Delorme said you wished to see me!" he said. 
               "Yes Sir, I wish to get some brave honorable man to chastise a villain who has insulted me!" 
               "Madame, you mistake me. I am no common hireling bully-I once was a gentleman!" 
               "Sir, do not think I mistake you for a common hireling. But hear me, a man who has deceived and wronged me, raised a cane to strike me, and-" 
               "Why didn't you kill him-but no, I forget you are a woman! He raised his hand to strike a woman?" 
               "He did; and would have done it had I not been armed and prepared for him!" 
               "Where is he? Where can I find the coward?" 
               "He will be at the Opera to-night!" 
               "I cannot go there! The Chief's aids are lynx-eyed. But if you will give me the number of his residence, I will so chastise him that he never will forget me!" 
               "His number is at - Broadway. He has the front apartments!" 
               "About eight he will be dressing for the Opera; it is near the time now, and I will call upon him!" 
               "Do Sir, and please accept this purse!" 
               "No Madam, as I said before, once I was a gentleman. I need no pay for doing my duty as a man and resenting an insult to a lady. Please give me the person's name?" 
               "It is DeGerneau. When you have punished him tell him that it is a token of remembrance from Constance Morley. But do not get yourself into trouble!" 
               "Never fear, Madam, I will look out for that. Good evening!" 
               "Stay one moment, accept this ring as a token that I appreciate your manly feelings!" 
               "Lady, I thank you. I will preserve it as a sacred gift to remember one who has brought back to me some recollections of what I have been!" 
               After a brief conference with Madame Delorme, Constance left the house, regained her carriage and drove off. 
             
             
               CHAPTER LIII. 
               DE GERNEAU, was engaged in his room making his toilet. A servant entered and announced that a gentleman below wished to speak to him a moment on some important business. 
               "Business? Business at this hour? Who the deuce can he be!" 
               "I don't know sir!" replied the servant. "He has a small package in his hand and says his business is particular?" 
               "A package? Why it may be a present from some lady who's been smitten with my personal appearance. Send the man up, boy!" 
               A moment later the person entered. It was the same whom we left in our last chapter. De Gerneau saw at a glance that it was no servant, no common message bearer who entered. 
               "Take a seat, sir," said he-"you must excuse me for being found in my shirt sleeves, I am just preparing for the Opera!" 
               "Make no excuse, Sir-you are precisely in the situation I wished to find you!" 
               "May I enquire your business Sir!" 
               "Yes, sir, if we are alone. I have something confidential to communicate to you Excuse me if I lock your door on the inside, I have a confidential present to make you and servants are so inquisitive!" 
               The stranger locked the door inside and then turned to De Gerneau who was startled by this proceeding. 
               "A present you say, Sir!" stammered the latter, "from a lady may I ask!" 
               "Yes sir!" said the stranger with a pleasant smile. 
               "Ah-some one that has been struck by my fine figure!" 
               "Yes, she did say something about your striking figure!" said the stranger smiling again. "By the way Sir, I will show you the present, it was sent by Miss Constance Morley!" 
               The stranger unrolled the package and displayed to the astonished beau a cowhide and a plaster of pitch. 
               "Villain, what does this mean! Get out of my apartments-leave Sir, or I'll shout for help!" cried De Gerneau. 
               "Speak one word louder than a whisper if you dare!" said the stranger in a low deep tone as he drew a broad bladed bowie knife and held it within a foot of DeGerneau's breast. "Speak and I'll cut your cursed cowardly heart out!" 
               "Do not murder me!" murmured DeGerneau in a whisper. 
               "Kneel down you coward-obey me and I will not kill you-disobey and you die!" 
               The pallid wretch knelt. Quick as thought, the stranger snatched a cravat from the dressing table and pinioned DeGerneau's hands behind him. Then in the same moment he clapped the plaster of pitch over his mouth, so that he could not speak and could only breathe through his nostrils. So sudden and unexpected and so skilfully was all this done that De Gerneau could offer no resistance. 
               The stranger now deliberately out the shirt from De Gerneau's back with his knife and then taking the cowhide in his hand said: 
               "I am about to show you Sir, what ought to be done with all men who offer to raise a hand against woman, save in kindness.-I am going to chastise you. Do not attempt to get up from your knees, or with the but end of this whip I shall floor you!" 
               With a piteous, beseeching look, the pallid wretch looked up, his whole frame trembling with terror. But he met no mercy in the strangers eye. The latter did not seem to be in the least excited, the same calm smile rested upon his pale countenance. 
               He raised the twisted thong-it whistled through the air and came down with tremendous force on the bare back of his victim. Again and again, in swift succession it came down, cutting through the skin at every lash. De Gerneau writhed and struggled, he strove to rise and the stranger true to his word knocked him prostrate. Waiting for a moment till his victim recovered his senses-he placed his foot upon his neck and continued the terrible infliction, until the man's back looked like a mass of hacked and mangled meat, and he seemed insensible to pain. Then he rolled him over on his face, and poured the contents of his wash bowl in his face to recover him. As soon as he saw that he came too enough to understand him, he said: 
               "This Sir, is your first lesson. If you ever trouble that lady in any way for this, my next one shall be more severe. You may thank me that I leave life in you. I am a gentleman, no common bully or thief, or I should borrow your watch and purse from the table there, though I expect neither of them are worth carrying off. Farewell, sir, I'll send Doctor Mott to examine the effects of my blister application to your back! Ah, here is another visitor, a lady!" 
               Constance Morley 
                     enterd
                     entered
                  . She saw at a glance how terribly he had been punished-she felt how much he deserved it. 
               "Are you ill my dear Mr. De Gerneau?-she asked in a tone of irony. "Why do you not rise to receive a lady? What, no answer? Will not even speak to me?-Then I'll leave you, good evening my dear Mr. De Gerneau-my carriage waits at the door to take me to the opera!" 
               "Good evening, Sir," said the stranger, "I leave you that excellent rawhide to remember me by. "There was only one raw hide when I entered the room-there are a pair now. Good night!" 
               "De Gerneau was found nearly dead an hour afterwards by his servant, and he did not attend the opera that night. 
             
             
               CHAPTER LIV. 
               ANOTHER day is before us-Catlin was in his apartment, busily engaged in writing a note. He finished it, enveloped and sealed it, then after directing it, rang a small bell which lay upon the table. The woman Caneouse answered the summons. 
               "Send the boy up here!" he said. "I have an errand for him." 
               A boy entered the room shortly after, a smart, shrewd looking youngster. 
               "Take this note to its direction. Ask for Miss Montrose, and give it to her yourself-see that she has it. If she asks who sent it, tell her that a lady gave it to you to carry. Beware not to mention my name and answer no questions. Do this errand right and a five dollar gold piece is ready for you when you get back!" 
               The boy took the note and departed upon his errand. 
               "That will decoy her off if she is the girl I take her to be. I have imitated the hand writing of Constance exactly, and if she meets the appointment she'll find stronger arms than those of a woman to enfold her. I think I can convince her that I am a villian, as easily as Constance can. My plan cannot fail. She will not fear to meet me in the Parade Ground at so early an hour, and it will be easy to get her off. I can blind all the police around, and get their help, if I need it, with fifty dollars!-And now for the carriage and the help-I must fix that all right for I must have her housed in Jersey and be back to night so as to avoid suspicion and prove an alibi. I must be careful!" 
               At this very moment, Mrs. Caneouse was engaged with a visitor, one with whom she had long been acquainted, one who has but recently however, come before our notice. I mean Mr. Lattson. He had been an acquaintance and pal of her husband's, and always very friendly with her. I do not remember to have told the readers in any of the former chapters, that Mrs. Caneouse was a grass-widow whose husband was absent doing the state service in a stone quarry as a reward for his dexterity in appropriating that which other people claimed as their property. But she was not aware however, that she owed her widowhood entirely to Mr. Catlin, whom she believed to be the true friend of her husband and herself. But Mr. Lattson knew this well; for it was about the proceeds of the spoil in the very case that the conviction was had upon, that Lattson quarrelled with Catlin who had been the receiver. And going systematically to work to earn his promised ten thousand dollars and to satisfy his revenge. 
               He was aware that Mrs. Caneouse knew that Catlin had the stolen property which consisted mostly of jewelry of great value, and he had made up his mind to find out where it was, so that he could have proof of Catlin's guilt by its seizure on his premises, as well as the other facts in his possession. And he determined if possible, to win Mrs. C. as an accomplice to his designs. To do this he had excellent materials. First, she liked money, (what woman does not?) and he intended to share the spoils with her; second, he knew that she loved her husband and if made aware of the treachery which had deprived her of him by a twenty years sentence to State's prison, would be ripe for revenge and he had the proof ready to assure her of that fact. And with this state of affairs we will leave them together for a little while and go elsewhere. 
               Hettie Montrose was seated in the parlor of the mortgaged cottage, reading a letter. Her face was radient with joy and after she read it, she kissed it again and again. 
               "Dear-dear brother, oh how happy I am that I shall see you so soon? Soon, soon I shall press you to my bosom!" 
               Her father entered while she was speaking. 
               "Have you good news my child, that you seem so glad and joyous?" he asked. 
               "Oh yes, dear father, brother is coming home-he will probably be here this very evening! Oh how glad we shall all be to see him!" 
               "We shall indeed, my child. Has Mr. Catlin called on you this morning?" 
               "No, dear father, and I hope he will not. I do not see how I can treat him civilly!" 
               "Do, dear daughter, for my sake. It is only to temporise with him until I can in some way recover from my embarassments. I do not ask you to marry him!" 
               "No, dear father, if you did, I should be forced for the first time in my life to 
                     disoboy
                     disobey
                   you. But there is a ring at the door; let me see who it is. The servant is out on an errand for mother!" 
               The beautiful girl went to the door and in a moment returned with another letter in her hand. 
               "How lucky I am this morning," she said. "Here is another letter to me, but this is in a lady's hand writing. Who can it be from?" 
               As she proceeded to open the letter her father passed on into an inner room. At the first glance at the note as she opened it, she muttered: 
               "This is from the same one who wrote to me before-from Constance Morley! She says that if I will meet her in the centre of the Washington Parade Ground, entering by the corner gate on University Place, she will convince me beyond a doubt that Catlin is a deep-dyed villain, and give me information which will save my father from ruin. The hour is eight o'clock. I will go, yes, for my father's sake I will go! The letter says I must go alone. Why that caution? Perhaps, poor thing, she hates to be seen by those who know her to be what she acknowledges herself to be, a poor lost and ruined girl. How noble it is in her to try to save me from her fate. I will not despise her-I will pity her and love her for her heart is good!" 
               "Oh ma'am, oh Miss Hettie I mane!" cried the servant girl coming in from the street where she had been sent on an errand, "there's such a grand carriage, with the footmen all dressed off in unicorn and a beautiful lady in it, just stopped in front of the door. Oh me, there's the door bell!" 
               The servant ran to the door, and in a moment came back. 
               "She told me to give you this bit 'o pasted-board, mem!" 
               Hettie glanced at the card. The name upon it was that of Constance Morley. 
               "Ask the lady in!" she said to the servant. 
               Constance came in. She was dressed in deep mourning, which made her pale face look even more pale and sad than usual. 
               "Be seated Miss Morley!" said Hettie-"I was reading your kind note of this morning and had made up my mind to keep the appointment!" 
               "Note? Appointment-Miss Montrose? I do not understand you!" 
               "This note, you sent it to me this morning did you not?" said Hettie, handing her the note. 
               "That resembles my handwriting perfectly, but I did not write or send it. There must be some deep treachery afoot. That note has been forged and by some one who knows my style of writing. Who brought it?" 
               "A small boy who said a lady sent him with it!" 
               "Did you notice anything peculiar about the boy?" 
               "No, Miss Morley, he gave me the note and hurried off before I had opened it." 
               "I think I know who wrote that note. No one is so well acquainted with my handwriting as Catlin is. He means to abduct you, I am certain of it." 
               "Oh could he be so vile! But thank God he cannot harm me-I will not go there! Besides my dear brave brother is coming home!" 
               "Will you not do me a favor, Miss Montrose?" asked Constance. 
               "Oh yes, anything on earth that I can do-you have been so good to warn me!" 
               "Then keep that appointment, go tonight at the hour named to the Parade Ground and meet him, for I am sure he will be there. You need not fear, I will be there and with a force to protect you. Your father can follow at a distance and I will see that he is arrested ere he can do more than to show his purpose!" 
               "Oh I dare not! I am afraid of him." 
               "Then I will go with you. We will go in a common hack with the curtains drawn-your father can ride with us and your brother-but what time do you expect your brother?" 
               "Down by the evening boat at six o'clock." 
               "Then he will be in time. We can go in the carriage to the gate and you can get out. If he intends to seize you, he will be there in some disguise or other, and you leave the rest to me. I will be prepared for him, for a warrant is already out to arrest him for a State's Prison offence. Follow my directions lady, you will never regret it. You need not disclose the matter to your father at all, but tell your brother if he comes to arm himself and be ready. If we are cool and wary we will trap the villain in his own snare. But I must go he might come to visit you, and seeing my carriage suspect that all was discovered. I merely came to reveal to you fully his course of life and his crimes! After he has been secured, if you desire it you shall know all! Till evening farewell, and God bless you, beautiful girl, God bless you!" 
               Hettie pressed the hand of Constance and the tears started in her eyes as she heard the thrilling tones of her voice, and thought how unhappy she was who uttered those kind words. 
               Constance re-entered her carriage and drove off, for she had much to do that day, and her hour of vengeance was approaching. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LV. 
               READER do you remember a happy cottage home which I described as the abode of peace and joy and love, in the earlier chapters of this History-I mean the house of Charles Brennon? 
               Come with me into it once more-come quickly for I hear the sound of a woman's pleading voice there, and the sound of men's voices uttering high and angry words. 
               Look-there is poor Mary Brennon, haggard and worn, pale from terror, standing between her father and her husband, trying to hold the latter back and to soothe him. Both of the men are evidently in liquor, both too are flushed with anger. 
               "I repeat it!" cried the elder, "you have robbed me-it is your fault, that I am a bankrupt! It is your fault that I am a penniless, ruined man!" 
               "You lie!" shouted Charles-"your lie you old dotard, you've robbed yourself and your creditors and spent all the money in lottery tickets! If you say I've robbed you again I'll split your head open as 
                     a a
                     a
                   butcher cleaves an ox!" 
               "Oh, Charles, Charles, remember that he is my father!" 
               "Woman, get out of my way-d-n you let me alone, I won't let your father or anybody's father call me a thief!" 
               His actions were even rougher than his words, for with all his strength he hurled her aside. She staggered and her head struck against the sharp corner of the marble work over the fireplace. She uttered no cry or groan, but the blood gushed in torrents from her face, as she ell senseless to the floor. 
               "You dog of hell, do you dare to strike my daughter!" yelled the old man, springing forward and grasping with the unnatural husband. Oh, terrible was the struggle that then ensued! Clinched closely together they fell to the floor and there striking, tearing each other with their teeth, like two infuriated dogs, they rolled and worried each other. The poor woman was insensible to this struggle. The life blood was welling from her wounds-and still they fought on. But the strength of the old man was failing; the young man was getting the better. Ah, what see we there! A knife in the old man's hands?-Yes-great God, see him raise it-see it come flashing down into that prostrate form! Once, twice, thrice-oh terrible-a piercing shriek-a moan, a quivering of the frame, and Charles Brennon struggler no more! 
               Covered with gore the father rises, drops his bloody knife and rushed to the side of his daughter. He raises her up-he calls her by name-she answers not-he puts his hand upon her heart-it is still, her eyes are glazed-she is DEAD! Oh God, what a scene! And yet the tragedy is not closed. He lays her down again, gently down upon the blood stained floor. He picks up the knife he has dropped. He looks at those bodies. He utters no word. He calls not for help-he does not try to flee from their presence-he breathes no prayer, but places the point of that knife calmly against his breast-so calmly that he feels where the blade can best pass in between the ribs.-Hear the crunch of the blade as it goes in to the very hilt to the heart. A minute he stands immoveable, not a groan, not a sigh-then with a gasp he falls forward on the body of his dead child. 
               Reader, MURDER has been done! Who did it? IT WAS THE LOTTERY DEALERS OF NEW YORK! 
             
             
               CHAPTER LVI. 
               IT was nearly eight o'clock. A carriage was standing under the shade of some trees a little beyond the North-eastern corner of Washington Parade Ground. The door was partly open and one or two persons were sitting inside of it. Loitering around, were several persons-and one or two were sitting over by the railing of the park, engaged in conversation, like citizens who were whiling away an hour in discussing the politics of the day. Very few people were in the Parade Ground, and most of them persons who hurried through on their way to different parts of the city, ordinary passengers. 
               Most of these were importuned for alms by an old beggar woman who was posted at the gate, but few of them heeded her, though once in a while some one would drop a few pence in her out-stretched hand. 
               It was nine o'clock. At that hour a hack drove rapidly up to the gate, coming from the up-town direction. It stopped, the driver leaped from the box and opened the door. A young lady stepped from the carriage-it was Hettie-and he partially closed it again. 
               "Wait for me driver!" said Hettie with a trembling voice, and she passed on toward the gate. Did the old woman now reach out her hand for alms? No, first she blew a shrill signal from a whistle, then rose up and as the other carriage started toward the spot, threw off the cloak and hood which had concealed her form, and-the old woman had disappeared! 
               Tullius Catlin was there! 
               "Good evening Miss Montrose!" he said. "I have been waiting for you for some time-my carriage yonder is at your service-you need not scream or resist, for I have plenty of force at hand. Act like a lady and you shall not be harmed!" 
               "I prefer to go in my own conveyance!" she said, retreating toward her carriage. 
               "And I prefer you should not!" he said, springing forward and attempting to grasp her around the waist. 
               At that instant the carriage door flew open and a young man in undress military uniform, followed by a gentleman and another lady, sprang out, and Mr. Catlin received a blow which sent him reeling over against the fenced railing, where he instantly was caught in a vice-like grasp by the driver of the hack, who said: 
               "Tullius Catlin, I arrest you in the name of the people of New York!" 
               "Who are you?" gasped the villain. 
               "James Leonard, of the Chief's office, you scoundrel!" 
               "In the meantime the "politicians" hurried up, and proved to be "shadows from" the Police Office-men tried and true. The carriage which had been waiting drove rapidly off, the loiterers disappeared, and Catlin was in the hands of his captors. 
               The lady who had accompanied the others in the last carriage now approached Catlin, raised her veil, and when she saw that he recognised her, said: 
               "I, CONSTANCE MORLEY have done this-and I have the evidence to convict you at burglary!" 
               And she did! 
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            DICK & FITZGERALD'S CATALOGUE 
             
               SEA AND PIRATE TALES. 
                
                  The Pirate Doctor; or, The Extraordinary Career of a New York Physician.-This story has had a tremendous sale. It was first printed in a newspaper, and ran up the circulation of the paper several thousand. Then it was printed in a book, and thirty thousand more sold. It is now printed a third time, and people are as eager to get it as ever. We expect that two or three hundred thousand will be sold, for when any body reads it he tells others about it, and in this way it "runs like the cholera." It is a sort of blood-and-thunder story, but the interest it excites when you begin it, excuses some of the improbabilities of the plot. It has 107 closely-printed double-column octavo pages, and we send it post-paid for 25 cents per copy. 
                  Garnelle; or, The Rover's Oath. This is one of the most spirited and romantic novels. Full of life and fire, it excites the reader and carries him onward as the details of the wild and romantic adventures of the robber, "Garnelle," are vividly recorded, and it is with mingled sensations of terror and delight that he peruses this volume of ocean adventure. Price 25 
                  The Yankee Privateer; or, The Traitor Merchant. J. H. Ingraham. This exciting tale is founded upon events that actually transpired during the war of 1812, and shows how some sharp Yankee tars got a little the best of John Bull. Price 25 
                  The Smuggler of St. Malo. By J. H. Ingraham. This capital novel is full of interesting adventures both by sea and land, and will please any person who is fond of an exciting love story. Price 25 
                  Paul Jones; or, The Son of the Sea. This novel is founded upon events that occurred during the Revolutionary War. Paul Jones was our bravest captain, and this tale describes his exploits in fighting the British navy. Price 25 
                  David Watson, the London Apprentice. A Romance of the Sea. This is an old fashioned, but an excellent and well-told story of the life and adventures of a poor boy, who made a considerable stir in the world. It turns out well, as all old-fashioned stories necessarily must. It is a book of 106 closely-printed octavo pages. Price 25 
                  Olph; or, The Pirate of the Shoals. One of Professor Ingraham's most romantic and thrilling tales of the sea. It is a story that you will be delighted with, even if you only commence to read it. The hero, a pirate from compulsion, loses no opportunity to alleviate the distresses of those who fall into piratical hands. Connected with his history is a love plot of exciting interest. Price 25 
                  The Dancing Feather; or, The Pirate Schooner. A romance of New York, with Sequel included. By J. H. Ingraham, author of "Captain Kidd," etc. This is an exciting sea story, and like all the productions of its celebrated author, is of the highest dramatic interest. Price 25 
                  The White Cruiser; or, The Fate of the Unheard Of. A Naval Piratical Romance, by Ned Buntline, author of "The Mysteries and Miseries of New York." This book abounds with startling descriptions of adventures in our own waters. Price 25 
                  Josephine; or, The Maid of the Gulf. By J. H. Ingraham, author of "The Dancing Feather," etc. This book contains a true history of some of the most notorious pirates that ever infested the seas. Its pages abound with the most stirring, thrilling and cold-blooded deeds that have ever been recorded. Price 25 
                  The Pirate Chief; or, The Cutter of the Ocean. By the author of "Josephine," "The Dancing Feather," "Pirate of the Shoals," etc. A book full of pirate adventures. Price 25 
                  Olonois, The Buccaneer; or, The Pirates of America. The Adventures of the Pirates, which are here narrated, are of so romantic and monstrous a nature, that they rival in detail the most improbable tales of fiction. The work is one of the most exciting interest. Price 25 
                
             
             
               Tales of New York Life. 
                
                  Caroline Tracy, the Milliner's Apprentice; or, Life in New York among the Lofty and Lowly. Being the Romantic Adventures of a Young Girl in New York during 1847 and 1848. This is a spirited romance of New York Life, and exposes some of the mysteries of this great city, in a way which will make the uninitiated stare. It is a book of near 100 closely-printed octavo pages. Price 25 
                  The Belle of the Bowery. An entertaining history of Life in and around New York-showing how young women who have no homes get along. and how young greenhorns are changed into Bowery boys, &c. It is a rich, amusing, and highly-entertaining story. Price 25 
                  The Orphan Seamstress. A Narrative of Innocence, Guilt, Mystery and Crime. By the author of "Caroline Tracy." This narrative of events in New York is especially interesting, as it alludes to incidents which every newspaper reader must remember. Price 25 
                  The Matricide's Daughter. A Tale of the Events which occurred in the city of New York twenty years ago. By NEWTON M. CURTIS. This is a story of thrilling interest, containing a narrative of a mysterious crime and its consequences. It introduces the reader into all sorts of queer company, from that of a forger and bogus-money maker, to the smart and cute lawyer, who is determined to make his fortune if possible. Price 25 
                
               
                  On receipt of the price, either in cash or stamps, copies of any of the above-named books will be sent to any part of the United States or Canadas, either by mail or express, securely and nearly packed, post-paid. Address DICK & FITZGERALD, Publishers, New York. 
             
             
                
               NEW SERIES OF NOVELS ABOUT Celebrated Highwaymen and Housebreakers. 
               This thrilling new series of novels embraces the Romantic Exploits and Adventures of TOM RIPON, JACK SHEPPARD, DICK TURPIN, CLAUDE DUVAL, BLUESKIN and TOM KING. All the wild, daring and dashing scenes of robber life, from the most perilous and astonishing adventures on the highway, to the most exciting and curious incidents in the bower of love, are portrayed by the author of these thrilling narratives with a vividness of description that has never been excelled, either in the pages of Ainsworth or Reynolds. Over 250,000 of these works have already been sold. 
               The following are the Novels contained in the New Series:  
                     Captain Heron; or, the Highwayman of Epping Forest. Price 25 
                     Jonathan Wild's Stratagem; or, the Highwayman's Escape. " 25 
                     The Hangman of Newgate; or, the Highwayman's Adventure. 25 
                     Tom Ripon; or, the Highwayman and Housebreaker. Price 25 
                     Claude Duval and His Companions; or, the Race on the Road. 25 
                     The Highwayman's Ride to York; or, the Death of Black Bess. 25 
                     Blueskin Baffled; or, the Highwayman's Trap. Price 25 
                  
                
               The above series of Novels are all well illustrated with interesting engravings, and have beautiful covers, printed in colors upon enamelled paper. 
             
             
               LIVES OF CELEBRATED HIGHWAYMEN. 
                
                  
                     Claude Duval, the Dashing Highwayman. Illustrated. Price 25
                     Is full of the most comical, pathetical, tragical, dramatical exploits of a romantic personage, who imagined that the world owed him a living, and that to rob was no sin, provided it was done in a very good natured way. It contains 100 double-column large octavo pages.
                   
                  
                     Life and Adventures of Dick Clinton, The Mysterious Highwayman. - Price 25
                     This is a narrative of the principal events in the career of a famous highway robber whose face was never seen, even by his comrades. It was first thought that Dick was a gentleman in disguise, but he proved himself at last to be only a clever villain, born, brought up, and educated to crime.
                   
                  
                     The Adventures of Tom King, And the Story of his Romantic Life. - Price 25
                     King was a noted English highway robber; and though he prided himself, when in disguise, on being a gentleman, yet he was but a heartless and sorry scamp. This story is connected with some love adventures, which make it doubly interesting. It is a book of 105 double-column octavo pages.
                   
                  
                     Ned Scarlet, the Daring Highwayman. With numerous illustrations. - Price 25
                     This is a lively, dashing work-the record of the marvelous deeds of one whose romantic adventures and daring exploits on the highway throw even the feats of the celebrated Turpin and Duval far into the shade.
                   
                  
                     Captain Hawkes; Or, The Shadow of Death. Price 25
                     A narrative of the strange exploits, daring crimes, and extraordinary adventures of a robber captain, showing how he managed to get money from his victims when they had none, and other curious and cruel manuvres, for which he became distinguished and dreaded. The book is complete in 112 pages.
                   
                  
                     Paul Clifford, Or, The Reformed Highwayman. Price 25
                     
                        cing a veritable history of a personage who made a great stir in England during the last century, and who is the real hero of Bulwer's celebrated novel of "Paul Clifford."
                   
                  
                     Fearless Fred, a Companion to Claude Duval. Price 25
                     
                        A book of 112 pages, full of his most remarkable and bold exploits and romantic adventures, prison scenes, life among the robbers, etc. It is the most entertaining narrative we ever read.
                   
                
               
                  On receipt of the price, either in cash or stamps, copies of any of the above-named books will be sent to any part of the United States or Canadas, either by mail or express, securely and neatly packed, post paid. Recollect! any book you want you can have at the advertised price. No charge for Catalogues or Information. Address DICK & FITZGERALD, Publishers, New York. 
                
                
                  
                     "Trumps's" American Hoyle; or, Gentlemen's Handbook of Games. Containing clear and complete descriptions of all the games played in the United States, with the American rules for playing them; including Whist, Euchre, Besique, Cribbage, All-Fours, Loo, Poker, Brag, Piquet, Ecarte, Boston, Cassino, Chess, Checkers, Backgammon, Dominoes, Billiards, and a hundred other games. To which is appended a Treatise on the Doctrine of Chances, and numerous decisions on disputed points. This work is designed to be an American authority for all the various games of skill and chance. It has been prepared with great care by the Editor, with the assistance of a number of gentlemen players of skill and ability, and is not a re-hash of English games, but a live American book, expressly prepared for American readers.
                     The following extract is taken from a lengthy notice in Wilkes' Spirit of the Times:
                     "We have read 'THE AMERICAN HOYLE' with care, and can strongly recommend it as a very useful book to those who engage in games of cards, dominoes, backgammon, and the like. It ought to be in every clubroom, and in every place where parties meet for their evening game. The long nights of the winter season are now at hand, and these games will be often resorted to, to while a few hours away. Though mostly played only for amusement, they should always be played correctly; and disputes arising over them when no money is at stake are often quite as bitter and acrimonious as when there is. Therefore this book should be at hand to settle such cases as they arise. Moreover, the rules laid down to guide the player so as to make him play the game scientifically are very interesting and valuable, even to those who are well versed in the subject. To a beginner they will be invaluable. The rules we now allude to are not the laws of the game, but the rules and deductions of the best players given to form a method of successful play. After having laid down the principles and laws of each game, 'The American Hoyle' goes on to give the rules which the player should follow, under the laws aforesaid, to discomfit his adversary and win for himself. As a matter of course, the application of these rules is and must be mainly left to the judgment of the player. The laws of the game are fixed and immutable; the rules of play often require to be varied and relaxed according to circumstances. But to be a good player a man should know these philosophical general rules of play. He may he a good player without ever having mastered the scientific theory of the game, but it is a hundred to one that he never will. We recommend the purchase of this book to all players-proficients and beginners a like."
                     THE AMERICAN HOYLE contains over 500 pages, is printed on fine white paper, bound in cloth, with extra gilt side and back, and is profusely illustrated with engravings explaining the different games.
                     Price $2 00
                   
                  
                     Mrs. Crowen's American Lady's Cookery Book. Comprising every variety of information for ordinary and holiday occasions, and containing over 1206 Original Receipts for preparing and Cooking Soups and Broths, Fish and Oysters, Clams, Muscles and Scollops, Lobsters, Crabs and Terrapins, Meats of all kinds, Poultry and Game, Eggs and Cheese, Vegetables and Salads, Sauces of all kinds, Fancy Desserts, Puddings and Custards, Pies and Tarts. Bread and Biscuit, Rolls and Cakes, Preserves and Jellies, Pickles and Catsups, Potted Meats, etc., etc. Together with Valuable and important hints on choosing and purchasing all kinds of Provisions and preparing ripe Fruits for the Table, Bills of Fare for the relief of young housekeepers, Arrangement of the Table for every variety of Dinner Parties, Etiquette of the Dinner-Table, Cookery for Invalids, Carving Made Easy, etc. The whole being a complete system of American Cookery. By MRS. T. J. CROWEN. Illustrated with several diagrams. This genuine and really practical American Cook Book is worth a thousand of the foreign republications which are issued from the press in this country. MRS. CROWEN gives directions for making all sorts of economical dishes, baking all kinds of cakes and pies, manufacturing every variety of confectionery, preserving pickling, &c., so plainly that the housekeeper of a week's standing can easily act upon her directions; and yet she has taken so comprehensive a scope, that the very best and most skillful will find something new. All the Receipts in this work have been carefully tried, and may be relied upon as the result of actual experience. 12mo, cloth binding, 474 pages. Price $2 00
                   
                  
                     Frank Converse's Complete Banjo Instructor. Without a Master. Containing a choice collection of Banjo Solos, Hornpipes, Reels, Jigs, Walk Arounds, Songs and Banjo Stories, progressively arranged and plainly explained, enabling the learner to become a proficient Banjoist without the aid of a teacher. The necessary explanations accompany each tune, and are placed under the notes on each page, plainly showing the string required, the finger to be used for stopping it, the manner of striking, and the number of times it must be sounded. This is all arranged and explained in so clear a manner, and the method is so simple and easy to learn, that it may be readily comprehended at a glance by any person, even of very limited understanding. By this simple method a person may master a tune in an hour or so. Mr. Converse is an eminent Professor of the Banjo, and a thorough musician, and his plan of instruction is entirely new and perfectly easy. This book is no catchpenny affair, but is just what we say it is. The INSTRUCTOR is illustrated with diagrams and explanatory symbols. 100 pages, bound in boards; cloth back. Price 50
                   
                  
                     Martine's Sensible Letter-Writer. Being a comprehensive and complete Guide and Assistant for those who desire to carry on an Epistolary Correspondence. Containing a large collection of Model Letters, on the simplest matters of life, adapted to all ages and conditions;  
                           EMBRACING 
                           Business Letters; 
                           Applications for Employment, with letters of Recommendation, and Answers to Advertisements; 
                           Letters between Parents and Children; 
                           Letters of Friendly Counsel and Remonstrance; 
                           Letters soliciting Advice, Assistance, and Friendly Favors; 
                           Letters of Courtesy, Friendship and Affection; 
                           Letters of Condolence and Sympathy; 
                           A Choice Collection of Love-Letters, for Every Situation in a Courtship; 
                           Notes of Ceremony, Familiar Invitations, etc., together with Notes of Acceptance and Regret. 
                        
                     
                     The whole containing 300 sensible Letters and Notes. This is an invaluable book for those persons who have not had sufficient practice to enable them to write letters without great effort. It contains such a variety of letters, that models may be found to suit every subject. Bound in boards, with illuminated cover and cloth back, 207 pages. Price 50
                     Bound in cloth. Price 75
                   
                
             
             
                
               BOOKS OF GAMES, &c., FOR HOME AMUSEMENT. 
                
                  
                     The American Boy's Own Book of Sports and Games.
                     A work expressly designed to amuse and instruct American Boys at all times and seasons, both in and out doors. This work contains 600 pages, and is illustrated with over 600 engravings and diagrams, drawn by White and other American and English artists, and engraved by N. Orr, in his best style. It is also embellished with eight full page ornamental titles illustrating the different departments of the work, and printed on tinted paper. The publishers were three years preparing this work and assure the public that it is printed in the best style upon fine sized paper and is one of the most acceptable books that could be presented to a boy of any age. The following will give an idea of its Contents.  
                           Part I-The Play-Ground; or, Out-Door Games With and Without Toys. Including Games of Activity and Speed: Games with Toys; Marbles, Tops, Hoops. Kites, Archery, Balls; with Cricket, Croquet; and Base-Ball. 
                           Part II-Athletic and Graceful Recreation. Including Gymnastics, Skating, Swimming, Rowing, Sailing, Horsemanship, Riding, Driving, Angling, Fencing, and Broadsword. 
                           Part III-Amusements with Pets. Comprising Singing and Talking Birds, Pigeons, Domestic and Aquatic Fowls, Rabbits, Squirrels, Mice Guinea-Pigs, Raccoon and Opossum. Dogs, Salt and Fresh Water Aquaria. 
                           Part IV-Play Room Games, For Rainy Days. Including Round Games and Forfeits. Board and Slate Games, and Table and Toy Games. 
                           Part V-Evening Amusements. Comprehending Comic Diversions, Parlor Magic, Scientific Recreations, and Puzzles. 
                           Part VI-Mechanical and Miscellaneous Amusements. Including Carpentry, Painting, Gardening and Postage-stamps. 
                        
                     
                     Large 12mo, 600 pages, printed on the finest paper; bound in cloth, with gilt side and back, illustrated with over 600 engravings. Price $3 50
                   
                  "Trump's" American Hoyle; or, Gentlemen's Handbook of Games. Containing clear and complete descriptions of all the games played in the United States-with the American Rules for playing them, including Whist, Euchre, Besique, Cribbage, All-Fours, Loo, Poker, Brag, Piquet, Ecarte, Boston, Cassino, Chess, Checkers, Backgammon, Dominoes, Billiards, and a hundred other games. This work is designed to be an American authority for all the various games of skill and chance. It has been prepared with great care by the editor, with the assistance of a number of gentleman players of skill and ability, and is not a re-hash of English descriptions of obsolete games, but a live American book, expressly prepared for American readers. 12mo, cloth; nearly 600 pages, with illustrations. Price $2 00 
                  The Secret Out; or, One Thousand Tricks with Cards. A book which explains all the Tricks and Deceptions with Playing Cards ever known or invented. This book contains, in addition to its numerous Card Tricks above described, full and easily understood explanations of some two 
                        hunderd
                        hundred
                      and forty of the most curious, amusing and interesting sleight-of-hand tricks ever invented, and which are illustrated by Engravings to make each Trick understood with ease. Illustrated by about 300 Engravings, and bound in a handsome gilt binding. It contains about four hundred pages. Price $1 59 
                  The Sociable; or, One Thousand and One Home Amusements. 
                        Containining
                        Containing
                      Acting Proverbs, Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or Drawing-room Pantomimes, Musical Burlesques, Tableaux Vivants, Parlor Games, Games of Action, Forfeits, Science in Sport and Parlor Magic, and a choice collection of curious mental and mechanical puzzles, &c. Illustrated with nearly 300 Engravings and Diagrams, the whole being a fund of never-ending entertainment. By the author of "The Magician's Own Book." Nearly 400 pages, 12mo, cloth, gilt side stamp. Price $1 50 
                  The Magician's Own Book. Containing several hundred amusing Magnetical, Electrical and Chemical Experiments, Sleight-of-hand and Card Tricks, Perplexing Puzzles, Entertaining Tricks and Questions in Numbers, Secret Writing Explained. Illustrated with over 500 Wood Engravings, 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back stamp, 400 pages. Price $1 50 
                  
                     The Parlor Magician; or, One Hundred Tricks for the Drawing-Room. Containing an extensive and Miscellaneous Collection of Conjuring and Legerdemain; Sleights with Dice, Dominoes, Cards, Ribbons, Rings, Fruit, Coin, Balls, Handkerchiefs, &c., all of which may be Performed in the Parlor or Drawing-Room, without the aid of any apparatus; also embracing a choice variety of Curious Deceptions which may be performed with the aid of simple apparatus; the whole illustrated and clearly explained, with 121 engravings, Paper covers, price 30
                     Bound in boards, with cloth back 50
                   
                  Spayth's Draughts or Checkers for Beginners. Being a comprehensive guide for those who desire to learn the game. This treatise was written by HENRY SPAYTH, the celebrated player, and is by far the most complete and instructive elementary work on Draughts ever published. It is profusely illustrated with diagrams of ingenious stratagems, curious positions, and perplexing problems, and contains a great variety of interesting and instructive games, progressively arranged and clearly explained with notes, so that the learner may easily comprehend them. With the aid of this valuable manual, beginner may soon master the theory of Checkers, and with only require a little practice to became proficient in the game. Cloth gilt side Price 75
                   
                   
                  The Illustrated Hand-Book of Billiards. By Michael Phelan and Claudius Berger. Containing a complete treatise of the noble Game of Billiards, with a description of all the different shots, how to bring the balls together, &c.; to which is added the Rules of the American or Four-Ball Game, the English Game, and the French or Three-Ball Game. Also containing the Rules for all the different Games of Pool. Illustrated copiously with engravings. Price 30 
                  The Game of Draughts or Checkers Simplified and EXPLAINED. With Practical Diagrams and Illustrations, together with a Checker-board, numbered and printed in red. Containing the Eighteen Standard Games, with over 200 of the best variations, selected from the various authors, together with many original ones never before published. By D. SCATTERGOOD. Bound in cloth, with flexible cover. Price 50 
                  The Book of 1,000 Tales and Amusing Adventures. Containing over 300 Engravings and 450 pages. This book is crammed full of the narratives and adventures of Travelers, the romantic tales of the Celebrated Warriors, Amusing Stories in Natural History, besides a thousand things relating to curious tricks, entertaining sports, pastimes and games. In this capital work we have our old friend, Peter Parley, again, and he tells his stories as well as ever. Price $1 50 
                  The Book of 500 Curious Puzzles. Containing a large collection of entertaining Paradoxes, Perplexing Deceptions in Numbers, and Amusing Tricks in Geometry. By the author of "The Sociable," "The Secret Out," "The Magician's Own Book." Illustrated with a Great Variety of Engravings. This book will have a large sale. It will furnish fun and amusement for a whole winter. Paper covers. Price 30 
                  Bound in boards, with cloth back 50 
                  
                     Book of Riddles and Five Hundred Home AmuseMENTS. Containing a Choice and Curious Collection of Riddles, Charades, Enigmas, Rebuses, Anagrams, Transpositions, Conundrums, Amusing Puzzles, Queer Sleights, Recreations in Arithmetic, Fireside Games, and Natural Magic, embracing Entertaining Amusements in Magnetism, Chemistry, Second Sight and Simple Recreations in Science for Family and Social pastime, illustrated with sixty engravings. Paper covers. Price 30
                     Bound in boards, with cloth back 50
                   
                  
                     Parlor Tricks with Cards. Containing Explanations of all the Tricks and Deceptions with Playing Cards ever invented, embracing Tricks with Cards performed by Sleight of Hand; by the Aid of Memory, Mental Calculation, and Arrangement of the Cards; by the aid of Confederacy, and Tricks Performed by the aid of Prepared Cards. The whole illustrated and made plain and easy, with seventy engravings. Paper covers, price 30
                     Bound in boards, with cloth back 50
                   
                  
                     The Book of Fireside Games. Containing an Explanation of the most entertaining Games suited to the Family Circle as a Recreation, such as Games of Action, Games which merely require attention. Games which require memory, Catch Games, which have for their objects Tricks or Mystification, Games in which an opportunity is afforded to display Gallantry, Wit, or some slight knowledge of certain Sciences, Amusing Forfeits, Fireside Games for Winter Evening Amusement, &c. Paper covers, price 30
                     Bound in boards, with cloth back 50
                   
                  
                     Parlor Theatricals; or, Winter Evenings' Entertainment. Containing Acting Proverbs, Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or Drawing-room Pantomimes, Musical Burlesques, Tableaux Vivants, &c.; with Instructions for Amateurs; how to construct a Stage and Curtain; how to get up Costumes and Properties, on the "Making Up" of Characters, Exits and Entrances; how to arrange Tableaux, &c. Illustrated with engravings. Paper covers, price 30
                     Bound in boards, cloth back 50
                   
                  
                     Hillgrove's Ball Room Guide, and Complete Dancing MASTER. Containing a Plain Treatise on Etiquette and Deportment at Balls and Parties, with Valuable Hints on Dress and the Toilet, together with full explanations of the Rudiments, Terms, Figures and Steps used in Dancing, including clear and precise Instructions how to Dance all kinds of Quadrilles, Waltzes, Polkas, Redowas, Reels, Round, Plain and Fancy Dances, so that any person may learn them without the aid of a Teacher; to which is added Easy Directions for Calling out the Figures of Every Dance, and the amount of Music required for each. The whole illustrated with one hundred and seventy-six descriptive Engravings and Diagrams, by THOMAS HILLGROVE, Professor of Dancing. Bound in cloth, with gilt side and back, price $1 00
                     Bound in boards, with cloth back 75
                   
                  100 Tricks with Cards. J. H. GREEN, the Reformed Gambler, has just authorized the publication of a new edition of his book entitled "Gamblers' Tricks with Cards Exposed and Explained." This is a book of 96 pages, and exposes and explains all the mysteries of the Gambling Table. It is interesting not only to those who play, but to those who do not. Old Players will get some new ideas from this curious book. Price 30 
                   
                  Le Marchand's Fortune-Teller and Dreamer's DicTIONARY. Containing a complete Dictionary of Dreams alphabetically arranged, with a clear Interpretation of each Dream, and the Lucky Numbers that belong to them. Also showing how to Tell Fortunes by the Wonderful and Mysterious Lady's Love Oracle; How to Foretell the Sex and Number of Children; How to Make a Lover or Sweetheart come to You; To tell whether your Lover or Sweetheart Loves You; How to tell any Person's Age; To know who your future Husband will be, and how soon you will be Married; To ascertain whether your Husband or Wife is True to You; How to Tell Future Events with Cards, Dice, Tea and Coffee Grounds, Eggs, Apple Parings, and the Lines of the Hand; How to Tell a Person's Character by Cabalistic Calculations, &c. By MADAME LE MARCHAND, the celebrated Parisian Fortune-Teller. Illustrated with a Steel Frontispiece and numerous Wood Engravings. This book contains 144 pages, and is bound in pasteboard, with cloth back. Price 40 
                  Pettengill's Perfect Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book: or, The Art of Discerning Future Events. This is a most complete Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book, and is one of the best ever printed. It is compiled with great care from authentic authorities on Astrology, Geomancy, Chiromancy, Necromancy, Spiritual Philosophy, &c., &c. Among the subjects treated of are-Casting Nativities by the Stars; Telling Fortunes by Lines on the Hand, by Moles on the Body, by Turning Cards, by Questions of Destiny, by Physical Appearances, by the Day of Birth, &c.; Signs of Character from the Shape of the Finger Nails, the Nose, the Eyes, the Marks on the Body, the Shape of the Head; and also Signs to Choose Husbands and Wives, &c. Indeed, it is the most complete and curious Book of Destiny ever printed. Everything you can think of as to fate or fortune is here explained. A book of 144 pages, bound in boards, with cloth back. Price 40 
                  The Everlasting Fortune-Teller and Magnetic Dream BOOK. Containing the Science of Foretelling Events by the Signs of the Zodiac; Lists of Lucky and Unlucky Days, with Presages drawn therefrom; List of Fortunate Hours; Physiognomy, or Prognostics drawn from the color and nature of the Hair of Men and Women, also from their whole assemblage of features; the Science of Foretelling Events by Cards, Dice, Dominoes, &c., the Science Foretelling anything in the Future by Dreams; and also containing NAPOLEON'S ORACULUM, or the Book of Fate, found in the Cabinet of Napoleon Buonaparte. Price only 35 
                  The Lady's Love Oracle: or, Counselor to the Fair Sex. Being a complete Fortune-Teller and Interpreter to all questions upon the different events and situations of life, hut more especially relating to all circumstances connected with Love, Courtship and Marriage. By Madame LE MARCHAND. Illustrated cover, printed in colors. Price 30 
                
             
             
               BOOKS ON ETIQUETTE, LOVE, LETTER WRITING &c. 
                
                  The Perfect Gentleman. A book of Etiquette and Eloquence, containing Information and Instruction for those who desire to become brilliant or conspicuous in General Society, or at Parties, Dinners, or Popular Gatherings, &c. It gives directions how to use wine at table, with Rules for judging the quality thereof, Rules for Carving, and a complete Etiquette of the Dinner Table, including Dinner Speeches, Toasts and Sentiments, Wit and Conversation at Table, &c. It has also an American Code of Etiquette and Politeness for all occasions; Model Speeches, with Directions how to deliver them; Duties of the Chairman at Public Meetings, Forms of Preambles and Resolutions, &c. It is a handsomely bound and gilt volume of 335 pages. Price $1 50 
                  Chesterfield's Letter-Writer and Complete Book of ETIQUETTE; or, Concise, Systematic Directions for Arranging and Writing Letters. Also, Model Correspondence in Friendship and Business, and a great variety of Model Love Letters. This work is also a Complete Book of Etiquette. You will find more real information in this book than in half-a-dozen volumes of the more expensive ones. This book contains 136 pages, and is bound in pasteboard sides, with cloth back. Price 40 
                  Etiquette and the Usages of Society. Containing the most approved Rules for Correct Conduct in Social and Fashionable Life; with Hints to both Gentlemen and Ladies on Awkward and Vulgar Habits. Also, the Etiquette of Love and Courtship, Marriage Etiquette, &c. By H. P. WILLIS. A book of 64 pages. Price 15 
                  Bound in cloth, with gilt side and printed on fine paper suitable for a present to a lady 50 
                  Arts of Beauty; or, Secrets of a Lady's Toilet. With Hints to Gentlemen on the Art of Fascinating. By Madame LOLA MONTEZ, Countess of Landsfeldt. Cloth, gilt side. This book contains an account, in detail, of all the arts employed by the fashionable ladies of all the chief cities of Europe, for the purpose of developing and preserving their charms. Price 75 
                  The Ladies' Guide to Beauty. A Companion for the Toilet. Containing practical advice on improving the complexion, the hair, the hands, the form, the teeth, the eyes, the feet, the features, so as to insure the highest degree of perfection of which they are susceptible. And also upwards of one hundred recipes for various cosmetics, oils, pomades, &c., &c., being the result of a combination of practical and scientific skill. By SIR JAMES CLARK, Private Physician to Queen Victoria. Revised and edited by an American Physician and Chemist. Paper, price 25 
                   
                  The Laws of Love. A Complete Code of Gallantry. Containing concise rules for the conduct of Courtship through its entire progress, aphorisms of love, rules for telling the characters and dispositions of women. remedies for love, and an epistolary code. Price 25 
                  The Art of Conversation: With Remarks on Fashion and Address. By MRS. MABERLY. This is the best book on the subject ever published. It contains nothing that is verbose or difficult to understand, but all the instructions and rules for conversation are given in a plain and common-sense manner, so that any one, however dull, can easily comprehend them. Price 25 
                  Courtship Made Easy; or, The Art of Making Love fully Explained. Containing full and minute directions for conducting a Courtship with Ladies of every age and position in society, and valuable information for persons who desire to enter the marriage state. Also, forms of Love-letters to be used on certain occasions. 64 pages. Price 15 
                  How to Win and How to Woo. Containing Rules for the Etiquette of Courtship, with directions, showing how to win the favor of the Ladies, how to begin and end a Courtship, and how Love Letters should be written. Price 13 
                  Bridal Etiquette. A sensible Guide to the Etiquette and Observances of the Marriage Ceremonies; containing complete directions for Bridal Receptions, and the necessary rules for Bridesmaids, Groomsmen, sending Cards, &c. Price 13 
                  How to Behave; or, The Spirit of Etiquette. A Complete Guide to Polite Society, for Ladies and Gentlemen; containing rules for good behavior at the dinner-table, in the parlor, in the street; with important hints on introduction, and the art of conversation. Price 13 
                  How to Dress with Taste. Containing hints upon the harmony of colors, the theory of contrast, the complexion, shape, or height, &c. This little volume forms a most suitable companion for the toilet-table; and every Lady and Gentleman should possess a copy, Price 13 
                  Anecdotes of Love. Being a true account of the most remarkable events connected with the History of Love in all Ages and among all Nations. By LOLA MONTEZ. Large 12mo, cloth. These romantic and surprising anecdotes really contain all of the most tragic and comic events connected with the history of the tender passion among all Nations and in all Ages of the World. Price $1 50 
                  The Dictionary of Love. Containing a Definition of all the Terms used in the History of the Tender Passion, together with specimens of curious model love letters, and many other interesting matters appertaining to Love, never before published; the whole forming a remarkable Text-Book for all Lovers, as well as a Complete Guide to Matrimony, and a Companion of Married Life. 12mo, cloth, gilt side and back. Price $1 50 
                  Chesterfield's Art of Letter-Writing Simplified. A Guide to Friendly, Affectionate, Polite, and Business Correspondence. Containing a large collection of the most valuable information relative to the Art of Letter-Writing, with clear and complete instructions how to begin and end Correspondence Rules for Punctuation, Spelling, &c., together with numerous examples of Letters and Notes on every subject of Epistolary intercourse, with several important hints on Love Letters. Price 15 
                
             
             
               MASONIC BOOKS. 
                
                  Richardson's Monitor of Freemasonry. A complete Guide to the various Ceremonies and Routine in Freemasons' Lodges, Chapters, Encampments, Hierarchies, &c., &c., in all the Degrees, whether Modern, Ancient. Ineffable, or Historical; containing Engravings of the Signs, Tokens, and Grips, and descriptions of the Regalia and Jewels, and likewise the Passwords and other Secret Words in each Degree. Profusely illustrated with explanatory Engravings and Plates. By JABEZ RICHARDSON, A. M. Any Society of Masons who wish to work in the higher Degrees, or in any Degree whatever, will find this book an invaluable aid to them. 192 pages, bound in gilt cloth. Price $1 25 
                  Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed and Explained. Showing the Origin, History, and Nature of Masonry; its Effects on the Government and the Christian Religion; and containing a Key to all the Degrees of Freemasonry; giving a clear and correct view of the Manner of Conferring the Different Degrees, as practiced in all Lodges throughout the Globe. Price 25 
                
             
             
               BOOKS ON WINES AND LIQUORS. 
               How to Mix Drinks. Containing Recipes for Mixing American, English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian Drinks-such as Juleps, Punches, Cobblers, Slings, Cocktails, &c. By JERRY THOMAS, late Bar-Tender at the Metropolitan Hotel, New York, and Planter's House, St. Louis. To which is appended a Manual for the Manufacture of Cordials, Liquors, Fancy Syrups, &c., containing Recipes after the most approved methods now used in the Distillation of Liquors and Beverages, designed for the special use of Manufacturers and Dealers in Wines and Spirits, Grocers, Tavern Keepers, and Private Families-the same being adapted to the trade of the United States and Canadas. By Prof. CHRISTIAN SCHULTZ, Practical Chemist, and Manufacturer of Wines, Liquors, Cordials, &c., from Berne, Switzerland; the whole Work containing over 700 valuable recipes. A large book, bound in cloth. Price $2 50 
             
             
                
               USEFUL BOOKS FOR REFERENCE. 
                
                  Inquire Within, for anything you want to know. A book of universal knowledge, containing more than three thousand facts for the People, and will give you correct information on every possible subject that you ever heard or thought of! Whether you may desire to make love to a pretty girl, or, cook a dinner-to cure a sick friend or cut an acquaintance-to get up a dinner party or dine abroad-to play at cards, at chess, or any other popular game, or go to church-whether you wish to establish yourself in life according to the rules of etiquette, or live in a plain, genteel way-this is a book that tells how to do it. Besides all this information-and we have not room to give an idea of a hundredth part of it-it contains so many valuable and useful recipes, that an enumeration of them requires seventy-two columns of fine type for the Index. Price $1 50 
                  Epitome of Braithwaite's Retrospect of Practical MEDICINE & SURGERY, containing a condensed summary of the most important cases; their Treatment and all the remedies, and other useful matters embraced in the Forty volumes the whole being alphabetically classified. BY WALTER S. Wells, M. D. Two volumes, large 8vo., each volume containing over 900 pages of closely printed matter. Substantially bound in sheep. Price for the set $10 00 
                  The Corner Cupboard; or, Facts for Everybody by the author of "Inquire Within," "The Reason Why," etc. Large 12mo., 400 pages, cloth, gilt stnd back, illustrated with over one thousand engravings. Embracing facts about-I. Things not generally known. II. Things that ought to be known. III. Things worth knowing. Whether in the parlor or the kitchen, the chamber or the boudoir, at home or abroad, it may be very appropriately called the Family's Ready Adviser. Price 
                   
                  The Finger-Post to Public Business. Containing the mode of forming and conducting Societies, Clubs, and other organized Associations; full Rules of Order for the government of their debates and business; complete directions how to compose resolutions, reports and petitions; and the manner of managing Conventions, Public Meetings, Celebrations, Dinners, Barbecues, and Pic-nics; Models of Constitutions for Lyceums, Institutes, and other societies; Political, Chess, Draught, Cricket, Base Ball, Gymnastic, Golf, Curling, Quoit, Shinny, Rackot, Yacht, Rowing, Hunting and Fishing Clubs; with rules of Cricket, Base Ball, Shinny, Quoits, Yachting and Rowing, and Instructions concerning Incorporations. Hints about Libraries and Museums, with a catalogue of desirable Books, and a list of American Coins; and Rules for the collection and preservation of Books, Mss., and objects of Curiosity. Rules for Debating, and the composition and delivery of Public Addresses, with examples of figures of speech, and a selection of specimens of style from various American orators. Together with an appendix, containing the original articles of confederation of the United States, the Constitution, the celebrated Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions, and other documents of reference. To which is prefixed a copious Index. By an Ex-Member of the Philadelphia Bar. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 50 
                  10,000 Wonderful Things. Comprising the Marvelous and rare Odd, Curious, Quaint, Eccentric, and Extraordinary, in all Ages and Nations, in Art, Nature, and Science, including many wonders of the World, enriched with Hundreds of Authentic Illustrations. Edited by EDMUND FILLINGHAM KING, M. A., author of "Life of Newton," &c., &c. 12mo., cloth, gilt side and back. In the present work. interesting scenes from Nature, Curiosities of Art, costume, and customs of a by-gone period, rather predominate; but we have devoted many of its pages to descriptions of remarkable occurrences, beautiful landscapes, stupendous waterfalls, and sublime sea-pieces. Price $1 50 
                  That's It; or, Plain Teaching By the Author of "Inquire Within," "The Reason Why," "The Corner Cupboard," "Live and Learn," "The Biblical Reason Why," &c. Illustrated with over 1,200 Wood Cuts. 12mo., cloth, gilt side and back. This is one of the best books of general instruction and popular information that can be placed by a parent in a family library. It is actually crammed with useful and entertaining engravings, yet there could be no greater mistake than to suppose "That's It" to be a mere "picture-book." Every illustration is employed for a purpose or a number of purposes, and is made, by numerous references, explanatory of things, which, without such assistance, could only be imperfectly conceived. This work contains nearly 400 pages, and over 1.200 wood engravings, and forms one of the cheapest and most interesting books of elementary instruction ever published. Price $1 50 
                  
                     Walker's Rhyming, Spelling and Pronouncing DicTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.  
                           CONTAINING 
                           I. The whole language arranged according to its termination. 
                           II. Every Word explained and divided into Syllables exactly as pronounced. 
                           III. Multitudes of Words liable to a double pronunciation, fixed in their true sound by a rhyme, 
                           IV. Many of the most difficult words rendered easy to be pronounced by being classed according to their endings. 
                           V. Numerous classes of Words ascertained in their pronunciation, by distinguishing them into perfect, nearly perfect, and allowable rhymes. 
                        
                     
                     To which is added critical and practical Observations on Orthography, Syllabication, Pronunciation, an Index of Allowable Rhymes, with Authorities for their Usage, &c., &c. Royal 12mo, 706 pp. Price $3 00
                   
                  Wright's American Book of 3000 Practical Receipts Containing over 3000 Receipts in all the useful and Domestic Arts; including Confectionery, Distilling, Perfumery, Chemicals, Varnishes, Dyeing, Agriculture, &c., &c. 12mo., 359 pp. Price $1 50 
                   
                  Art of Dancing without a Master: or, Ball Room Guide and Instructor. To which are added Hints on Etiquette; also, the Figures, Music, and Necessary Instructions for the performance of the most Modern and Improved Dances, including the "German." By EDWARD FERRERO. Professor of Dancing at West Point. By the aid of which any one can attain a knowledge of the Art of Dancing without a Master. This work also contains 105 pages of the Choicest Music, arranged for the piano-forte by the most celebrated professors. The whole forming the most valuable and useful melange for the center-table of the drawing-room ever published. The music alone, if purchased in separate sheets at any of the music stores, would cost ten times the price of the book. Thus you can obtain a History of Dancing, Hints on Etiquette, the Figures and Steps of all Dances, and Ten Dollars' worth of the choicest Music for one dollar and a half. 12mo, cloth. Price $1 50 
                  
                     A Plea for the Queen's English. Stray Notes on Speaking and Spelling. By HENRY ALFORD, D. D., Dean of Canterbury. Small octavo, tinted paper.
                     "The volume is mainly devoted to the exposure of common violations of pure English idiom which prevail more or less in good society, and are often found in the productions of esteemed popular writers. We imitate our English teachers and models even in their mistakes. The comments of such an acute and accomplished scholar as Dean Alford will be of good service to the cause of pure English in this country."-N. Y. Tribune Price $1 25
                   
                  
                     The American Card-Player: Containing clear and comprehensive directions for playing the Games of Euchre, Whist, Bzique, All-Fours, French Fours, Cribbage Cassino, Straight and Draw Poker, Whisky Poker, and Commercial Pitch, together with all the laws of those games. 150 pages. Bound in boards, with cloth back. Price 50 cts.
                     Bound in cloth, gilt side. Price 75 cts.
                   
                  
                     Day's American Ready-Reckoner. Containing Tables for rapid calculations of aggregate values, wages, salaries, board, interest money, &c., &c. Also, tables of timber, plank, board and log measurements, with full explanations how to measure them, either by the square foot (board measure), or cubic foot (timber measure). Also, how to measure wood by the cord, with tables applicable to piles of wood of any shape, and showing in a simple manner how to ascertain the contents in cords of a pile of any shape. Also, tables of land measurements, showing the contents of a piece of land of almost any shape, from a quarter acre up to ten acres, and telling exactly how to measure land in any quantity, by chains and links, or by yards and feet. Also, how to describe a piece of land in deeding it. Also, giving information as to acquiring and locating a farm on the public lands of the United States. By B. H. DAY. This Ready-Reckoner is composed of original tables, which are positively correct, having been revised in the most careful manner. The table of aggregate values of merchandise or produce by the piece pound, yard, foot, inch, gallon, quart, pint, peck, or bushel, from one-eighth up to 100 cents, bringing in all necessary fractions. This set of tables is very complete for reckoning the aggregate values of articles priced, at almost any fractional part of a dollar, and is of course applicable to articles of any price whatever, over a dollar. It is perfect in this respect. The second set of tables give the value by the ounce of articles sold by the pound, from two cents per pound, cent by cent, up to one dollar per pound. The tables of wages by the week, showing the wages from one-fourth day up to four weeks. The rates of wages begin at twenty-five cents, and gradually rise up to twenty dollars per week. Tables of wages by the month, show the wages per day, and for any number of days in the month, from one dollar up to one hundred dollars per month. Tables of salaries by the year show the amount of the salary for one day, and for any number of days up to one month, beginning at twenty dollars, and rising gradually up to fifteen hundred dollars a year. Tables of board by the week give the board for one day, increasing one day at a time up to four weeks; then the board for thirty days and for 31 days, at rates from one dollar, increasing gradually up to fifty dollars per week. The interest tables show the rates at five, six, seven and eight per cent. on any amount, from one day up to one year. Then come the board, plank, and timber tables, showing the contents of boards, planks, round logs, and other timber. Also, the wood and land measurements. These tables are all prefaced by explanations telling exactly how to make the measurements, and giving easily understood examples, so that any person can measure for himself, if he don't want to use the tables, or distrusts them. This is, indeed, the most simple and easily understood Ready-Reckoner ever printed. Most books of this kind are hard to understand, and that is why we wanted to print one with explanations how the reckoning should be done. We think purchasers of this book will be satisfied that we have succeeded in making a Reckoner that everybody can comprehend. It is a book of 192 pages, and embraces more matter than 500 pages of any other Reckoner.
                     Bound in Boards, with cloth back. Price 50
                     Bound in cloth, gilt back. Price 75
                     Bound in leather tucks [Pocket Book Style.] Price $1 25
                   
                  Miner's Domestic Poultry Book. A Treatise on the History, Breeding and General Management of Foreign and Domestic Fowls. By T. B. MINER, author of "American Bee-Keeper's Manual," embracing all the late Importations of Fowls, and being descriptions by the best Fowl Fanciers in the United States, of all the most valuable breeds, with the author's extensive experience as a breeder, together with selected matter of interest, comprising, as it is believed, the most complete and authentic work on the subject ever published. Illustrated with numerous Portraits from Life. Bound in Cloth. Price $1 50 
                  The Young Reporter; or, How to Write Shorthand. A complete Phonographic Teacher, intended as a School-Book, to afford thorough instruction to those who have not the assistance of an Oral Teacher. By the aid of this work, any person of the most ordinary intelligence may learn to write Shorthand, and report Speeches and Sermons in a short time. Bound in boards, with cloth back. Price 50 
                  Wright's Book of 3,000 American Receipts; or, Light-House of Valuable Information. Containing over 3,000 Receipts in all the Useful and Domestic Arts-including Cookery, Confectionery, Distilling, Perfumery, Chemicals, Varnishes, Dyeing, Agriculture, etc. Embracing valuable secrets that cannot be obtained from any other source. No exertion or expense has been spared to make this work as comprehensive and accurate as possible. Many receipts will be found in it that have never before appeared in print in this country. This is by far the most valuable American Receipt Book that has ever been published. 12mo, Cloth, 359 pages. Price $1 50 
                   
                  Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor: or, Guide to the Three Symbolic Degrees of the Ancient York Rite, Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft, and Master Mason. And to the Degrees of Mark Master, Fast Master, Most Excellent Master, and the Royal Arch. By MALCOLM C. DUNCAN. Explained and Interpreted by copious Notes and numerous Engravings. Although this work is a complete Ritual of the Symbolic and Chapter Degrees, and is also profusely illustrated with engravings of the Secret Signs and Grips, it is not so much the design of the author to gratify the curiosity of the uninitiated, as to furnish a Guide to the Younger Members of the Order, by means of which their progress from grade to grade may be facilitated. It is a well-known fact that comparatively few of the fraternity are "Bright Masons," but with the aid of this invaluable Masonic Companion any Mason can, in a short time, become qualified to take the Chair as Master of a Lodge. Everything in this book is clear and correct, and it gives in the plainest possible language an understandable description of all the Rites and Ceremonies practiced in the above-named Degrees. Nothing is omitted in it that may tend to impart a full understanding of the principles of Masonry. The Ceremonies as they are (or should be) performed, the Pass-Words, Grips, Signs, Tokens, Jewels, Emblems, Lectures, and Plans of the Interior of Lodges, are all explained, with numerous Notes and Engravings (all new). This is a valuable book for the Fraternity, containing, as it does, the "MODERN WORK" of the order. No Mason should be without it. It is entirely different from any other Masonic book heretofore published. Bound is cloth. Price $2 50 
                  Leather tucks [Pocket-Book Style] with gilt edges $3 00 
                  Narratives and Adventures of Travelers in Africa, Illustrated with numerous fine Engravings. This Book is crammed with the thrilling adventures of fearless travelers. It is a good book for boys, and the true stories of chivalrous enterprises and hair-breadth escapes will entertain those of riper years, 12mo. cloth. Price $1 75 
                  Every Woman Her Own Lawyer. A Private Guide in all matters of Law, of essential interest to Women, and by the aid of which every Female, may, in whatever situation, understand her legal course and redress, and be her own Legal Adviser. BY GEORGE BISHOP. Large 12mo., nearly 400 pages, bound in half leather. This book should be in the hands of every woman, young or old, married or single, in the United States. Price $1 50 
                  The Lady's Manual of Fancy Work. A Complete Instructor in every variety of Ornamental Needle-Work, with a list of materials and hints for their selection; advice on making up and trimming. By MRS. PULLAN, Director of the Work-Table of Frank Leslie's Magazine, etc. Illustrated with over 300 engravings, by the best artists, with eight large pattern plates, elegantly printed in colors, on tinted paper. Large octavo, beautifully bound in cloth, with gilt side and back stamp. Price $2 00 
                  Ladies' Guide to Crochet. By Mrs. ANN S. STEPHENS. Copiously illustrated with original and very choice designs in Crochet, etc., printed in colors, separate from the letter press, on tinted paper. Also with numerous wood-cuts, printed with the letter press, explanatory of terms, etc. Oblong, pp, 117, beautifully bound in extra cloth, gilt. This work has the terms in Crochet so clearly explained, that any crochet pattern, however difficult, may be worked with ease. Price $1 50 
                  Live and Learn: A Guide for all who wish to Speak and Write correctly; particularly intended as a book of reference for the solution of difficulties connected with Grammar, Composition, Punctuation, etc., etc., with explanation of Latin and French words and phrases of frequent occurrence in newspapers, reviews, periodicals, and books in general, containing examples of one thousand mistakes of daily occurrence, in speaking, writing and pronunciation. 216 pages, cloth, 12mo. Price 75 
                  The Family Aquarium. A new pleasure for the Domestic Circle. Being a familiar and complete instructor upon the subject of the construction, fitting up, stocking and maintenance of the Marine and Fresh Water Aquaria, or River and Ocean Gardens. By H. D. BUTLER, Esq. 12mo., cloth, gilt side stamp. Price 75 
                  The American Home Cook Book. Containing several hundred excellent Recipes. The whole based on many years' experience of an American Housewife. Illustrated with Engravings. All the Recipes in this Book are written from actual experiments in Cooking. There are no copyings from theoretical cooking recipes. Bound in Beards, cloth back 50 
                  Bound in paper cover. Price 30 
                  Rarey and Knowlson's Complete Horse Tamer and FARRIER. Comprising the whole theory of Taming or Breaking the Horse, by a New and Improved Method as practiced with great success in the United States and all the Countries of Europe, By J. S. RAREY, containing Rules for selecting a good Horse, for Feeding Horses, etc. Also, THE COMPLETE FARRIER; or, Horse Doctor; a Guide for the Treatment of Horses in all Diseases to which that noble animal is liable, being the result of fifty years' extensive practice of the author, JOHN C. KNOWLSON, during his life, an English Farrier of high popularity, containing the latest discoveries in the Cure of Spavin. Illustrated with descriptive Engravings. Bound in boards, with cloth back. Price 50 
                  Brisbane's Golden Ready Reckoner. Calculated in Dollars and Cents, being a useful Assistant to Traders in buying and selling various sorts of commodities, either wholesale or retail, showing at once the amount or value of any number of articles, or quantity of goods, or any merchandise, either by the gallon, quart, pint, ounce, pound, quarter, hundred, yard, foot, inch, bushel, etc. In an easy and plain manner. To which are added Interest Tables, calculated in dollars and cents, for days and for months, at six per cent. and at seven per cent. per annum, alternately; and a great number of other Tables and Rules for calculation never before in print. Bound in boards, cloth back. By WILLIAM D. BRISBANE, A M., Accountant, Book-keeper, &c. Price 35 
                   
                  Madam Le Normand's Unerring Fortune Teller. Containing the celebrated Oracle of Human Destiny, or Book of Fate, being an accurate interpreter of the Mystical Signs and Heavenly Bodies, also embracing the French, Italian, and English methods of telling Fortunes with Cards, and a new and entertaining process of Fortune Telling with Dice, also containing seventy-nine good and bad omens with their interpretation, one hundred and eighty-seven weather omens, and the signification of all the Male and Female names in our language. This interesting and curious book was written by Madam Le Normand, the great French Fortune Teller, who was frequently consulted by the Emperor Napoleon, and it differs entirely from any other book published in this country. Those purchasing it will find it to be a source of much entertainment and fun in the family circle. This book contains 144 pages, and is bound in pasteboard sides, with cloth back. It is illustrated with numerous engravings. It also contains a large Colored Lithographic Engraving of the Mystical Table or Chart of Fate, which folds up. Price 40 
                  
                     Spayth's American Draught Player; or, the Theory and Practice of the Scientific Game of Checkers, Simplified and Illustrated with Practical Diagrams. Containing upwards of 1700 Games and Positions. By HENRY SPAYTH. Fourth Edition, with over two hundred Corrections and Improvements. Containing: The Standard Laws of the Game-Full Instructions-Draught Board Numbered-Names of the Games, and how formed-The "Theory of the Move and its Changes" practically explained, and illustrated with Diagrams-Playing Tables for Draught Clubs-New systems of numbering the Board-Prefixing signs to the variations-List of Draught Treatises and Publications chronologically arranged.
                     OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                     The press are unqualified in their commendation of this valuable work. The following brief 
                           extacts
                           extracts
                         are taken from extended notices of it:
                     "It is by far the best work upon the game that has ever been published."-ATLANTIC MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
                     "Mr. Spayth's book contains matter of the profoundest and most indispensable moment."-THE INDEPENDENT.
                     "It is the most instructive treatise on the game ever published in any country."-BUFFALO COURIER.
                     "Authors on the Game of Draughts [as all are well aware] are numerous, but Henry Spayth, author of "American Draught Player," stands pre-eminent and unrivalled. We make this assertion feeling confident that no greater proof is needed than a simple comparison of his treatise with others on the game. It is true that Sturges, Anderson, and many other gifted authors deserve much praise and credit; but every candid and unprejudiced player [who has compared the different treatises] will admit than Spayth is the only author who has been willing to take the responsibility of putting forth a universal work on the game, one that contains all the books. Besides giving us over five hundred of his own best games, he has also given us over five hundred games, the contributions of the most eminent American and European players, as well as the most judicious selection from all other authors.
                     "In addition to the laurels won by Mr. Spayth as an author of a work containing so much valuable information to the lover of Draughts, he stands to-day the Champion of the World, having been for many years the most successful and accomplished of all players."-WILKES' SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
                     Bound in cloth, gilt side and back. Price $3 00
                   
                  Spayth's Game of Draughts. Containing over Five Hundred Games and Positions, Full Instructions, the Move and its Changes, Laws of the Game, etc. By HENRY SPAYTH, author of "The American Draught Player." This book is entirely new, and although it is designed as an addition, or supplement to the author's first work-"THE AMERICAN DRAUGHT PLAYER"-it is complete in itself. It contains lucid instructions for beginners, laws of the game, diagrams, the score of 364 games, together with about 150 novel, instructive and ingenious "critical positions." The work is an admirable treatise upon the noble game to which Mr. Spayth has given so much profitable study and thought, and will, if possible, still further enhance his reputation, both as a player and author. To the experienced Draught player it will, during the long winter evenings, prove an invaluable companion, and the novice can from its pages learn a mental recreation that has been and is the delight of many of our greatest minds. Cloth, gilt back and side. Price $1 50 
                  Spayth's Draughts or Checkers for Beginners. Being a comprehensive guide for those who desire to learn the game. This treatise was written by HENRY SPAYTH, the celebrated player, and is by far the most complete and instructive elementary work on Draughts ever published. It is profusely illustrated with diagrams of ingenious stratagems, curious positions, and perplexing problems, and contains a great variety of interesting and instructive games, progressively arranged and clearly explained with notes, so that the learner may easily comprehend them. With the aid of this valuable manual, a beginner may soon master the theory of Checkers, and will only require a little practice to become proficient in the game. Cloth, gilt side. Price 75 
                  The Printers' New Hand-Book, A Treatise on the Imposition of Forms: Embracing a system of rules and principles for laying the pages, applicable to all forms; with instructions for making margin and register, turning and folding the sheets, etc.; and Diagrams of all the Standard Forms, showing their relation to each other, with explanations of their variations and transpositions. Also, Tables of Signatures, etc.; showing the signature pages and proper signatures for all the common forms in book work, the number of pages the successive signatures make, and the quantity of paper required to print any number of pages in the different forms. Showing also the sizes of paper used, and the size of book made from any given size of paper. By GEO. H. BIDWELL. This is a complete manual which every printer should have. 109 pages bound in flexible cloth cover and red edges. Price $1 00 
                  The Combination Fortune-Teller, and Dictionary of Dreams: Being a comprehensive Encyclopdia, explaining all the different methods extant by which good and evil events, and questions of love and matrimony, are foretold by means of numbers, cards, dice, dominoes, apple parings, eggs, tea-leaves, and coffee-grounds. Also, Prognostications by Charms, Ceremonies, Omens, and Moles, the Features and Form, Lines of the Hands, Spots on the Body, Lucky and Unlucky Days, etc.; to which are added, a description of the Divining or Luck Rod, the Golden Wheel of Fortune, the Mystical Table, or Chart of Fate, the Ladies' Love Oracle, Napoleon's Oraculum, the Language of Flowers, One Hundred and Eighty-seven Weather Signs, and a complete Dictionary of Dreams, with their interpretations. Containing 430 pages, and illustrated with numerous Engravings and two large colored Lithographs. The whole combining "Madame le Normand's Unerring Fortune-Teller," "Fontaine's Golden Wheel Fortune-Teller," and "Madams le Marchand's Fortune-Teller, and Dreamer's Dictionary." 12mo. cloth. Price $1 25 
                   
                  The Poet's Companion; A Dictionary of all Allowable Rhymes in the English Language. This is a Book to aid aspiring genius in the Composition of Rhymes, and in Poetical Effusions generally. It gives the Perfect, the Imperfect, and the Allowable Rhymes, and will enable you to ascertain to a certainty, whether any word can be mated. It is invaluable to any one who desires to court the muses, and is used by some of the best writers in the country. Price 25 
                  The Chairman and Speaker's Guide; or, Rules for the Orderly Conduct of Public Meetings. Price 15 
                  How to Talk and Debate; or, Fluency of Speech Attained without the Sacrifice of Elegance and Sense. Price 15 
                  Knowlson's Farrier and Complete Horse Doctor. We have printed a new and revised edition of this celebrated book, which contains Knowlson's famous Recipe for the cure of Spavin, and other new matter. It is positively the best book of the kind ever written. We sell it cheap, because of the immense demand for it. The farmers and horsekeepers like it because it gives them plain common-sense directions how to manage their horses. We sell our new edition (64 pages, 18mo.) cheap. Price 15 
                  Horse-Taming by a New Method, as Practiced by J S. RAREY. A new and improved Edition, containing Mr. Rarey's whole Secret of Subduing and Breaking Vicious Horses, together with his Improved Plan of Managing Young Colts, and Breaking them to the Saddle, the Harness, and the Sulkey-with ten Engravings illustrating the process. Every person who keeps a horse should buy this book. It costs but a trifle, and you will positively find it an excellent guide in the management of that noble animal. This is a very handsome book of 64 pages. Price 15 
                  Boxing Made Easy; or, The Complete Manual of Self-Defence Clearly Explained and Illustrated in a Series of Easy Lessons, with some Important Hints to Wrestlers. Price 15 
                  Mind Your Stops. Punctuation made Plain, and Composition simplified for Readers, Writers and Talkers. This little Book is worth ten times the price asked for it, and will teach accuracy in everything, from the dictation of a friendly letter to the composition of a learned treatise. Price 15 
                  Hard Words Made Easy. Rules for Pronunciation and Accent, with instructions how to pronounce French, Italian, German, Russian, Danish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, and other foreign names. A capital work. "Everybody, learned or unlearned, should purchase this little Brochure-the only cheap guide to pronunciation." Price 15 
                  Courteney's Dictionary of Abbreviations. Literary, Scientific, Commercial, Ecclesiastical, Military, Naval, Legal, and Medical. A book of reference-3000 abbreviations-for the solution of all literary mysteries. By EDWARD S. C. COURTENEY, Esq. This is a very useful book. Everybody should get a copy. Price 15 
                  Five Hundred French Phrases. Adapted for those who aspire to speak and write French correctly. The phrases here given are selected for their general usefulness, and will greatly assist the learner in his first efforts to converse in French. Nobody should be without a copy of this useful book. Price 15 
                  Blunders in Behavior Corrected. A Concise Code of Deportment for both sexes. "It will polish and refine either sex, and is Chesterfield superseded."-Home Companion. Price 15 
                  How to Detect Adulteration in our Daily Food and DRINK. A complete analysis of the frauds and deceptions practiced upon articles of consumption by store keepers and manufacturers; with full directions how to detect genuine from spurious, by simple and inexpensive means. Price 15 
                  The Young Housekeeper's Book. or, How to Have a Good Living upon a Small Income. Price 15 
                  How to Cut and Contrive Children's Clothes at a SMALL COST. With numerous explanatory Engravings. Price 15 
                   
                  Lacour on the Manufacture of Liquors, Wines and CORDIALS, Without the Aid of Distillation. Also, the manufacture of Effervescing Beverages and Syrups, Vinegar and Bitters. Prepared expressly for the Trade. By PIERRE LACOUR. 12mo, cloth. Price $2 50 
                  The French Wine and Liquor Manufacturer. A Practical Guide and Private Receipt Book for the American Liquor Merchant. By JOHN RACK, Practical Wine and Liquor Manufacturer. Illustrated with descriptive Diagrams, Tables and Engravings. This is by far the most complete and reliable book on the Manufacture of Liquor ever published. Cloth, price $3 00 
                  The Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Dealers' Guide. A Treatise on the Manufacture of Liquors. By a Practical Liquor Manufacturer. 12mo, cloth. The author, after telling what each liquid is composed of, furnishes a formulae for making its exact counterpart-exact in everything. Each formulae is comprehensive, no one can misunderstand it. The ingredients are specifically named, and the quantity required of each distinctly set forth. Price $2 50 
                
             
             
               HUMOROUS BOOKS. 
                
                  The Harp of a Thousand Strings; or, Laughter for a Lifetime. A large book of nearly 400 pages, bound in a handsome gilt cover. Containing more than a million laughs, and crowded full of Funny Stories, besides being illustrated with over Two Hundred Comical Engravings. It is a complete Reservoir of Mirth-provoking, Care-killing, Laughter-breeding, Merry-making, Fun-hatching, Jolly-good Stories, Tough Yarns, Jokes, Travesties, Doggerels, and Apt Hits at the Times. Price $1 50 
                  Dr. Valentine's Comic Lectures. A Budget of Wit and Humor; or Morsels of Mirth for the Melancholy. A certain cure for the Blues, and all other serious complaints. Comprising Comic Lectures on Heads, Faces, Noses, Mouths, Animal Magnetism, &c.; with Specimens of Eloquence, Transactions of Learned Societies, Delineations of Eccentric Characters, Comic Songs, &c., &c. By DR. W. VALENTINE, the favorite Delineator of Eccentric Characters. Illustrated with twelve portraits of Dr. Valentine, in his most celebrated characters. 12mo, cloth, gilt. Price $1 25 
                  Ornamental paper cover 75 
                  Dr. Valentine's Comic Metamorphoses. Being the Second Series of Dr. Valentine's Lectures, with characters as given by the late Yankee Hill. Embellished with numerous portraits. Ornamental paper cover. Price 75 
                  Cloth, gilt $1 25 
                  Mrs. Partington's Carpet-Bag of Fun. Illustrated with over 150 of the most laughable engravings ever designed, from Drawings by Darley, McLennan, and others, and a collection of over 1000 of the most comical stories, amusing adventures, side-splitting jokes, cheek-extending poetry, funny conundrums, QUEER SAYINGS OF MRS. PARTINGTON, heart-rending puns, witty repartees, &c., &c. The whole illustrated by about 150 comic wood-cuts. 12mo, 300 pages. This 
                        entertainng
                        entertaining
                      book is well printed on fine white paper, and contains 300 pages, with tinted frontispiece by Darley. Over 20,000 copies of this work have already been sold. Cloth, gilt. Price $1 25 
                  Ornamental paper cover 75 
                  The Book of 1,000 Comical Stories; or, Endless Repast of Fun. A rich banquet for every day in the year, with several courses and a dessert. Comprising tales of Humor, Laughable Anecdotes, Irresistible Drolleries, Jovial Jokes, Comical Conceits. Puns and Pickings, Quibbles and Queries, Bon Mots and Broad Grins, Oddities, Epigrams, &c., &c.; Merry Songs for Merry Moments; Conundrums for the Million; an Inexhaustible Store of Nuts to Crack, and Sports and Pastimes for all Seasons. Appropriately Illustrated with 300 Comic Engravings. Large 12mo, cloth. Price $1 50 
                  The Courtship and Adventures of Jonathan Home-BRED; or, The Scrapes and Escapes of a Live Yankee. Beautifully illustrated. 12mo, cloth. For life-like portraits, quaint and quiet drollery, laughter-moving scenes abroad and at home, wherein real live Yankees live, and move, and talk, we recommend this book. The book is printed in handsome style, on good paper, and with amusing engravings. Price $1 50 
                  The Plate of Chowder: A Dish for Funny Fellows. Appropriately illustrated with 100 Comic Engravings. If you want the drollest and most comical collection of Stories and Jokes ever printed, and spirited and laughable pictures to match, buy this book. We defy any person to keep a straight face, or his buttons on his clothes, either, when he reads any of the Queer Tales in the "Plate of Chowder." 12mo, paper cover 25 
                  The Laughable Adventures of Messrs. Brown, Jones AND ROBINSON, showing where they went, and how they went; what they did, and how they did it. With nearly 200 most thrillingly-comic engravings. Price 25 
                  Laughing Gas. An Encyclopdia of Wit, Wisdom and Wind. By SAM SLICK, JR. Comically illustrated with 100 original and laughable engravings, and near 500 side-extending jokes, and other things to get fat on; and the best of it is, that everything about the book is new and fresh-all new-new designs, new stories, new type-no comic almanac stuff. Price 25 
                   
                  The Courtship of Chevalier Sly-Fox-Wykoff, showing his heart-rending, astounding, and most wonderful love adventures with Fanny Elssler and Miss Gamb. Illustrated with 200 comic engravings. Price 25 
                  The Extraordinary and Mirth-Provoking Adven-TURES, BY SEA AND LAND, OF OSCAR SHANGHAI. Illustrated by nearly 200 comic engravings. All told in a series of nearly two hundred of the most risible, quizzable, provoking, peculiar, saucy, and spicy cuts ever gathered within the leaves of any one book. All fond of a hearty laugh, here is amusement for many a merry hour. Price 25 
                  Charley White's Ethiopian Joke Book. Being a perfect Casket of Fun, the first and only work of the kind ever published. Containing a full expose of all the most laughable Jokes, Stories, Witticisms, &c., as told by the Ethiopian comedian, Charles White. Price 13 
                  Black Wit and Darkey Conversations. By CHARLES WHITE. Containing a large collection of Laughable Anecdotes, Jokes, Stories, Witticisms, and Darkey Conversations. 18mo, price 13 
                  Chips from Uncle Sam's Jack-Knife. Illustrated with over 100 comical engravings, and comprising a collection of over 500 Laughable Stories, Funny Adventures, Comic Poetry, Queer Conundrums, Terrific Puns, Witty Sayings, Sublime Jokes, and Sentimental Sentences. The whole being a most perfect portfolio for those who love to laugh. Large Octavo. Price 25 
                  Fox's Ethiopian Comicalities. Containing Strange Sayings, Eccentric Doings, Burlesque Speeches, Laughable Drolleries, Funny Stories, interspersed with Refined Wit Broad Humor, and Cutting Sarcasm, copied verbatim as recited by the celebrated Ethiopian Comedian. Wit, several Comical Illustrations. Price 13 
                  The Comical Adventures of David Dufficks. Illustrated with over one hundred Funny Engravings. Large octavo. Price 25 
                  Yale College Scrapes: or, How the Boys Go It at New Haven. This is a book of 114 pages, containing accounts of all the noted and famous "Scrapes" and "Sprees," of which students at Old Yale have been guilty for the last quarter of a century. Price 25 
                  The Comic Wandering Jew. Full of Fun, and containing 100 Humorous Engravings. Price 25 
                  Broad Grins of the Laughing Philosopher. Being a Collection of Funny Jokes. Droll Incidents, and Ludicrous Pictures, that will make you laugh out loud. By PICKLE THE YOUNGER, otherwise called "Little Pickle." This book is really a good one. It is full of the drollest incidents imaginable, interspersed with good jokes, quaint sayings, and funny pictures. Price 13 
                  The Knapsack Full of Fun: or, 1,000 Rations of Laughter. Illustrated with over 500 Comic Engravings. This book is crammed with Funny Stories, Curious Jokes Amusing Anecdotes, and Humorous Poetry. It is a large quarto volume, and the price is only 30 
                  The Comic English Grammar: or, A Complete Grammar of Our Language, with Comic Examples. Illustrated with about fifty Engravings. Price 25 
                
             
             
               JUDGE HALIBURTON'S WORKS. 
                
                  
                     Sam Slick in Search of a Wife. Everybody has heard of "Sam Slick, the Clockmaker," and he has given his opinion on almost everything. This book contains his opinion about "Courtin' the Gals;" and his laughable adventures after the petticoats. Buy this book, if you want many good, hearty laughs. 12mo, cloth. Price $1 25
                     Paper 75
                   
                  
                     Sam Slick's Nature and Human Nature. This is the most amusing and witty collection of the Opinions. Sayings and Doings of the famous Sam Slick, that has been published. It gives the experiences of the Yankee Clockmaker, and the incidents that occurred in his journeyings over the world, together with his observations on men and things in general; also containing his Opinions on Matrimony. Large 12mo, cloth. Price $1 25
                     Paper 75
                   
                  
                     The Attache: or, Sam Slick in England. "We sincerely pity the man who cannot find in it the materials for the loosening of several of his coffin nails. It is full of oddity and fun, and must sell like new tomatoes."-Buffalo Express. Large 12mo, cloth. Price $1 25
                     Paper 75
                   
                  
                     Sam Slick's Sayings and Doings, and his Opinions about Matrimony. Since Slick's first work, he has written nothing so fresh, so racy, and genuinely humorous as this. Every line of it tells, some way or other-instructively, sarcastically, jocosely, or wittily. Cloth, price $1 25
                     Paper 
                     
                   
                
             
          
       
   
