
    ----CITATION----
        Donaldson, James Lowry, (1814-1885). Sergeant Atkins .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6291
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  Shaking his trophy in the air, Itunwah burst into a terrific war-whoop, which called forth a thousand echoes from the dismal hummock, and with gratified revenge stole swiftly from the scene of blood. Page 29. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               SERGEANT ATKINS. 
               A TALE OF ADVENTURE. 
               FOUNDED ON FACT. 
             
            BY AN OFFICER OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY. 
             
               
                   
                     "Quque ipse miserrima vidi, 
                     Et quorum pars magna fui." 
                  
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
             
            1871. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
          
             
            TO JONATHAN MEREDITH, ESQ. OF BALTIMORE, MARYLAND, WITH THE AFFECTIONATE REGARDS OF THE AUTHOR. 
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE close of the year 1840 saw the United States still engaged in war with the Seminole Indians of Florida. Repeated efforts to subdue them, commencing as early as the winter of 1835, had ended only in disaster to the national arms, and the unusual spectacle was presented of a powerful government, of vast resources, struggling unsuccessfully against a small band of resolute savages. 
            The scenes and incidents of our story are laid in the hummocks and swamps of Florida, being founded mainly on events that just preceded the breaking out of hostilities. They are sketched not so much with the object of telling a tale, as to furnish a medium whereby we may be able the better to illustrate our idea of the character and customs of the North American Indian, and of the treatment which he has received at the hands of his conqueror. 
            To this end we propose, in the first place, to glance briefly at the causes which led to the war above alluded to, and afterward to give the reader a brief account of the formidable tribe of savages who, in their fastnesses, waged it until they were nearly exterminated,-a tribe that boasted, with some truth, of having always been successful in its struggles with the pale-face. 
            As to the causes, then, of the war. The encroachments of the whites on the Indian lands, selling them liquor, appropriating their cattle, defrauding them of their annuities, and claiming their negroes,-many of whom were to be found among them in a state of nominal slavery,-were all prolific sources of trouble with the pale-face; but the immediate one (which, by the way, was intended to correct these and like evils) was the ill-considered Treaty of Payne's Landing, whereby the Seminoles, through their principal chiefs, stipulated to emigrate, in September, 1835, to lands which had been set apart for them in the Indian Territory west of the Mississippi River. 
            From the signing of this treaty to its attempted enforcement the majority of the nation bitterly opposed it, denied the authority that made it, and avowed their determination to resist it to the death. Now, it cannot be truthfully said that the United States authorities were ignorant of the sentiments of the Indians on this subject, for they made no secret of their opposition to the treaty; it was the cause of dissension and bloodshed among themselves, and of frequent angry "talks" with their agent,
                  Official records show that the office of agent for the Seminoles, at the period of which we write, was by no means a sinecure. In his efforts to do right, the incumbent incurred the displeasure of both the whites and the Indians, each charging him with duplicity and double-dealing.
                who did not fail, if accounts are to be believed, to keep the government advised of the hostile attitude of the savages. But the government was indifferent or criminally supine, being resolved, at all hazards, to carry out its settled policy of removing the Indians from within the borders of the several States. In carrying out this policy, however, it was surely its duty to have seen that the hostility it provoked was met by such a display of military power as would have overawed the Indians,-this, we say, was the plain and imperative duty of the United States authorities. How, then, was it fulfilled? After repeated representations from the officer commanding the troops, a few skeleton companies were detached from the Southern posts and tardily concentrated in the Territory, under the high-sounding title of the "Army of Florida." The massacre by the savages of part of this command, under Major Dade, whilst marching to reinforce the garrison of Fort King, the seat of the Indian Agency, is well known. With ordinary care it might have been foreseen and prevented. At all events it took the country by surprise, and aroused the War Department to the full importance of the struggle. Energetic measures were at once adopted, and the whole disposable regular army of the United States dispatched to Florida. Volunteers were also summoned from the adjoining States, and a formidable force soon mustered, with orders to crush this savage outbreak. But it was too late,-it was "shutting the stable-door after the steed had been stolen,"-the war had begun, and, like all violent convulsions, had to run its allotted course. 
            At the commencement of hostilities there were two factions in the nation arrayed against each other,-those opposed to, and those in favor of, carrying out the treaty in good faith,-the war and the peace-party, so designated. 
            At the head of the former (much the more numerous faction) was Asse-se-hehola, commonly called Oseola, and sometimes Powell.
                  It was said that Oseola was the son of a Creek woman by an Englishman named William Powell.
                Asse-se-hehola, meaning Black Drink, was his proper name; but, except on a special occasion, we shall call him Oseola in the following pages. 
             
            There is much to interest one in the character of this Indian. Fierce, yet noble; remorseless, but having much in his intercourse with the dominant race to embitter him, he seems to have been one of those brilliant men who are born to lead by the force of their character, whether it be for good or for evil. Judged from the white man's standpoint, he was a monster of cruelty; from the Indian's, a hero and a patriot. 
            Oseola had acquired the influence which he wielded over his people by superior subtlety and daring,-cardinal virtues with savages,-and all his influence was exerted to plunge the nation into a war, which he boldly proclaimed against the pale-face, and which, he prophesied, would continue many moons, and end only with success. 
            Charley-Emathla, a chief eminent for his virtue and moderation, headed the peace-party. He lived near Fort King, and was the only leader of the Seminoles who could compare at all in ability with Oseola; the latter feared and hated him accordingly. We shall leave his character to be developed in the course of our story. 
            Micco-nope, or Pond-Governor, as his name is translated, was hereditary head-chief and king; but an indolent nature and Falstaffian proportions, joined to that rarest of qualities among savages, a placable disposition, unfitted him for warlike pursuits, and disposed him to listen to the counsels of peace, as advised by Charley-Emathla, rather than to those of war, as urged by Oseola. Micco-nope was the youngest son of Solo-choppo, or Long Tom. He lived, whilst a youth, near Wea-Lustee, or Black Creek, his title then being Sint-chakke, or Frequenter of the Pond. His town, after he became king, was at Palak-la-kaha, twenty miles east of the Withlacoochee River. 
            The Seminole nation, at this time, had no regular form of government, being split up into bands, infesting certain localities, from which they derived their distinctive appellations. The Ochachobee, the Big Cypress Swamp, the Everglades, the head-waters of St. John's River, the Oclawaha, the Wahoo Swamp, the region about Tallahassee, etc., comprising over fifty thousand square miles of pine-barren, hummock, and swamp,-the most difficult country in the world for troops to operate in,-had each its band, ruled despotically by a chief who claimed the power of life and death over his followers, and would acknowledge Micco-nope's authority only in council, when the tribes had assembled to celebrate one of their annual feasts, or to deliberate on questions of equal importance to all. 
            Such being the condition of things at the breaking ing out of the Florida War, the reader will see why it was that the majority of the Seminoles were so bitterly opposed to consummating a treaty which did them so great a wrong. They could not realize that they were a ruined people, and were about to become a banished nation; that they must leave their hunting-grounds and sacred mounds, around which all their associations clustered, and again go forth as "Runaways,"
                  The literal meaning of the word Seminole is Runaway, the notion having been made up of the original occupants of the soil and fugitives from the Northern tribes, who had fled, before the advance of the whites, to the inaccessible swamps of Florida.
                in a strange land, among strange people and strange customs. Rather than admit the truth of such a monstrous idea, they would fight for the land which was theirs by inheritance, and in which they were determined should repose their bones. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I.-An Incident. 17
                
               CHAPTER II.-The Council. 30
                
               CHAPTER III.-Itunwah. 43
                
               CHAPTER IV.-A Veteran. 51
                
               CHAPTER V.-Bluesnake exercises his Craft and unravels a Mystery. 64
                
               CHAPTER VI.-The Trail. 71
                
               CHAPTER VII.-A Savage in Camp. 78
                
               CHAPTER VIII.-Sergeant Atkins takes a Cold Bath. 86
                
               CHAPTER IX.-Echo-willa. 93
                
               CHAPTER X.-The War-Dance. 99
                
               CHAPTER XI-Sergeant Atkins repents of his Folly. 108
                
               CHAPTER XII.-Bluesnake as a Conjurer. 116
                
               CHAPTER XIII.-Sergeant Atkins redeems his Character as a Sensible Man. 119
                
               CHAPTER XIV.-The Piaok, or Grassy Water. 129
                
               CHAPTER XV.-The Okee-fi-nokee. 139
                
               CHAPTER XVI.-Oseola again talks to Echo-willa. 151
                
               CHAPTER XVI.-Abduction of Luste-Hadjo. 157
                
               CHAPTER XVIII.-The Prophet's Test. 163
                
               CHAPTER XIX.-The Medicine-men have a Bout with the Evil One. 176
                
               CHAPTER XX.-Piney Island. 184
                
                
               CHAPTER XXI.-Gopher Hole. 193
                
               CHAPTER XXII.-Sergeant Atkins on a "Big Talk." 200
                
               CHAPTER XXIII.-Something about the Dead. 214
                
               CHAPTER XXIV.-Sergeant Atkins tells a Ghost Story. 225
                
               CHAPTER XXV.-The Lookout. 231
                
               CHAPTER XXVI.-Strategy. 237
                
               CHAPTER XXVII.-Tactics. 243
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII.-Tactics versus Strategy. 252
                
               CHAPTER XXIX.-Turning the Tables. 262
                
               CHAPTER XXX.-The Ambush. 271
                
               CHAPTER XXXI.-The Massacre280
                
               CHAPTER XXXII.-The Reconnoissance. 288
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII.-Fort King. 294
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV.-Bluesnake's Story. 307
                
               CHAPTER XXXV.-The Last of Bluesnake. 315
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Sergeant Atkins 
             
            SERGEANT ATKINS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               AN INCIDENT. 
               OUR story opens in the woods of Florida, at an early hour of a clear October morning, in the year 1835. A few roseate tints streaked the east, heralding the sun; but there was hardly light enough, as yet, distinctly to reveal the spot we are about to describe to the reader-a spot soon to become the theater of a deadly crime. It was situated in the vicinity of Micco-nope, an Indian settlement on the road from Black Creek to the Government Agency, at Fort King. 
               A dark mass of thickly growing trees and undergrowth, matted by innumerable trailing vines and parasitical plants, extending over many thousand acres of alternate upland, swamp, and morass, and forming what in Florida is called a hummock, surrounded an open, circular space, about two hundred yards in diameter, covered with grass to the height of a man's shoulder. 
               Through this open space ran a narrow road or trail almost obliterated by the luxuriant growth of the grass, and want of travel. Faint traces of wheels were perceptible here and there as, approaching the center of the area, the road skirted for a short distance a small pond of yellow water swarming with wriggling insects, and then went off into the hummock at a point nearly opposite that at which it had entered, and where an Indian warrior had just emerged from the surrounding trees. 
               As this individual is an important character in the following pages, we shall endeavor to describe him. 
               His face was handsome and noble in expression, free from those lines which indicate the habitual indulgence of bad passions; but the beautiful hues of the rattlesnake, or the sleek fur of the wild cat, are not more deceptive than were these signs of a lofty and genial nature, for there were moments when he exceeded in ferocity any beast to be found in its native wilds. 
               Considerably above the common height, his figure was light, erect, and graceful. Agility, strength, and endurance combined were visible in his broad, deep chest, narrow hips, and compact, wiry muscles. 
               He was clad in the usual dress and equipped with the usual weapons of the Seminoles. His scalp-lock, stiffened by some kind of unguent, stood defiantly up, while his glossy black hair fell from beneath a red cotton handkerchief wound loosely around his temples. 
               A hunting-shirt, trimmed at the collar with strips of red flannel, was gathered at the waist by a belt, to which hung a scalping-knife and a squirrel-skin pouch, the latter containing a miscellaneous assortment valuable only to an Indian. His leggings and moccasins were of dressed deerskin, the former ornamented at the sides with tags and beads of various colors, the latter coming high above the ankle, and secured there by stout leather thongs. 
               He carried a long and beautifully-mounted rifle in his left hand-the weapon with which he slew the man from whom he received it as a gift. 
               Drawing aside the branches of a magnolia that grew across the road, Oseola, for such was his name, stepped into the area with the short, straight step of his people, and glanced keenly around, as if in search of some one; but, finding the place deserted, he said audibly, "Itunwah is not yet come. I will wait for him." And leaning his rifle against the tree, he seated himself at its foot. 
               He thus remained for several minutes, silent and motionless. Suddenly he started, bent slightly forward, and listened. The next moment he arose, took his rifle, and said, "It is he; and now for news from the chiefs." 
               As Oseola spoke, the tall grass was parted, and a warrior of massive frame stood before him. The contrast between the two, as they confronted each other and entered into an animated "talk," was striking. The stranger looked as if he had passed the night in the swamp and come reluctantly out of it. His face was bloated, his dress and equipments were covered with mud, and he glanced around him in a furtive manner, as if looking for something that evaded his vision and of which he was afraid. He spoke in a deep, harsh voice: 
               "I have come, chief, as I promised-listen. Huppe
                     The owl.
                   yet hoots in the hummock." 
               "It is well," was the reply. "Oseola thanks Itunwah. What does he bring from the chiefs?" 
               "They send sticks-see!" And the savage drew from his pouch several small bundles, neatly trimmed, painted red, and done up like cigars. 
               "Heh!" ejaculated Oseola, eagerly grasping the bundles; "they are red, and good. Who sends them?" 
               "Philip and his son Coa-Coochee; and Halpattar-Tustenuggee; and Apiaca; and--" 
               "Oseola hears; but Micco-nope?" 
               "Micco-nope is a hog, and fears the blue-jackets; his heart is white, and he listens to the two-tongued blacksnake, Charley-Emathla." 
               "Charley-Emathla is a friend," hastily interrupted the chief with a scowl which belied his words; "but what said Micco-nope?" 
               "He would not talk; but grunted, turned over, and slept. The Wikolis
                     The Seminoles believe that the oft-repeated cry of the Wikolis or Whip-poor-will is auspicious of abundant crops.
                   has sung over his town, and the young men prepare for the green-corn dance." 
               A slight shade of anger pervaded Oseola's face as he quickly rejoined, "Micco-nope is old and fat, and it tires him to talk; his young men will talk for him." 
               In order that the reader may understand this dialogue, it is proper here to add a few words of explanation. 
               By the treaty of Payne's Landing, the time for the Seminoles to move west had arrived, but no preparations had been made on the part of the Indians to carry it out. On the contrary, they were urged by a powerful party to remain, and thus provoke a conflict with the United States authorities. Oseola was at the head of this opposition, instigated by two powerful motives in an Indian's heart, namely, hatred and revenge: hatred of the white man, the insolent oppressor of his people; and revenge for indignities inflicted on himself,-indignities which he could neither forget nor forgive. 
               But Oseola had other and nobler motives for his opposition to the treaty. Its terms were notoriously unjust to the people, for it took their lands and gave them no adequate return. It was one-sided, or, as he expressed it, "all for the whites." It made them tenants at will of the lands owned and hunted over by their forefathers for countless moons; it banished them to a region beyond the "Father of Waters," where there was no game and no trees, where fierce animals abounded and enemies would surround and perhaps exterminate them. A few interested chiefs had been cajoled into signing it, but the nation had never sanctioned such a foolish arrangement; to say so was a white man's lie, and all who advocated it were the white man's tools. He himself would resist it to the last extremity; and drawing his knife one day, when in council with the Agent at Fort King, he buried it in the table before him, exclaiming, "The only treaty Oseola will make is with this!" In his last "talk" with the whites he is reported to have thus spoken: "The sentiments of the nation have been expressed. There is nothing more to be said; the people have agreed; by their chiefs they have uttered; it is well; it is truth, and must not be broken. When I make up my mind, I act. If I speak, what I say, I will do. Speak or no speak, what I resolve, that I execute. The nation has consulted, has declared, and will perform. What should be, shall be. There remains nothing worth words. If the hail rattles, let the flowers be crushed,-the stately oak of the forest will lift its head to the sky amid the storm, towering and unscathed." 
               "Am l a negro,-a slave?" he cried, on another occasion, when refused permission to purchase powder. "My skin is dark, but not black. I am an Indian,-a Seminole. The white man shall not make me black! I will make the white man red with blood, and then blacken him in the sun and rain, where the buzzard shall live upon his flesh, and the wolf smell of his bones!" 
               For these daring words Oseola was handcuffed and confined in the guard-house at Fort King until he had begged the Agent's pardon, and was only released at last through the interposition of the friendly chiefs. But he never forgave the insult; and although he met the Agent the next day with a pleasant smile, and "wished all that foolish talk laid aside," and even went so far as to bring in a party of his followers to sign the treaty, still he nursed his revenge, and took advantage of the first opportunity to gratify it. 
               That single imprisonment of Oseola cost the United States seventy millions of dollars and many valuable lives! And now that he has made good his threats and sealed them with his blood; now that years have rolled by, and much that was said of his cruelty is forgotten, it is impossible not to admire in some degree his character, or to deny that he possessed the highest qualities of mind and body, and that he was as much a patriot, according to the lights and views which his savage nature and education would allow him to take of the circumstances by which he was surrounded, as many white men who have been dignified by that title. 
               Oseola's plan was to combine the tribes composing the Seminole nation into one general confederation against the whites, and attack the posts before the troops could concentrate, or know anything of the country in which they would have to operate; and, having thus disposed of the garrisons, to destroy the plantations along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, and threaten the towns themselves,-in a word, to drive the white man from Florida. It would not be the first time the thing had been done, if tradition was to be believed, and he was confident it could be done again, if the nation would only be true to itself. 
               In furtherance of this comprehensive scheme he had sent Itunwah to the hostile chiefs in one direction, and had gone himself in another, appointing the area before mentioned as their place of meeting. Itunwah had satisfactorily performed his part of the work, bringing back his message in the shape of "red sticks," which were typical of the number of fighting men each chief pledged himself to furnish in case of an outbreak, and the result was so far agreeable to Oseola as to draw from him the exclamation recorded. But withal, he well knew that no combination of the tribes, however adroitly planned, could succeed unless headed by Micco-nope; for, besides the king's name, which was "a tower of strength," Micco-nope had a numerous band of followers ready to obey his slightest orders. But having grown enormously fat,
                     When the commandant of the United States troops in Florida sent word to Micco-nope that he desired to hold a conference with him, the old king replied that if he wished to meet him in council lie would have to furnish him with two horses, an incident which shows that Micco-nope himself was not unaware of his own unwieldy bulk.
                   the old chief had become timid and averse to war. Besides, so long a time had elapsed since he had gone on his last war-path against the whites under Jackson, and so lively a remembrance did he retain of the severe castigation then inflicted upon him, that he had no desire to renew a conflict which he had sense enough to know could terminate only in the destruction of his power and the extinction of the nation. Micco-nope, moreover, had two able counselors in Charley-Emathla and Abram. 
               Abram was a negro, and belonged to Micco-nope, serving him in the twofold office of sense-bearer
                     One who talks for another.
                   and friend. He was a remarkably intelligent black, spoke English fluently, had been all over the Southern portion of the United States, and was said to have been a fugitive slave. But this was not so. His parents may have been slaves, but he himself was free, or, what amounted to the same thing, he was the "born thrall" of Micco-nope. This was a well-known fact at Port King, where Abram often went to interpret for his master. He had no apprehension, therefore, should the nation go west, that he would be claimed as a fugitive from slavery. His knowledge of the white man's power, and his love for his master, equally prompted him to advise the latter to observe the treaty. But he was cautious that he should not be detected in giving such counsel, lest he might compromise himself with the hostile chiefs, or with those of his own color who had escaped from the plantations, and who would, of course, oppose any scheme which might lead to their again being reduced to a state of bondage, and, as subsequent events proved, were even more vindictive and pertinacious in their resistance than their masters. 
               Without elaborately comparing the two, we will remark that Charley-Emathla, the chief who headed the peace-party, was not so eloquent and brilliant a "talker" as Oseola, neither was he so bold and spirited a warrior; but he was more reasonable, and could better estimate results,-in fact, had more sound, common sense. No one knew the iniquitous character of the treaty of Payne's Landing better than he, or the base means by which it had been brought about,-the transparent rascality of the thing; but he also knew the power of the white man, and his ability to enforce it. "What will you do?" he said to the people, in reply to a characteristic speech of Oseola's, urging immediate hostilities. "Where will you go? To the hummocks? The white man will cut them down. To the Everglades? The white man will cover them with boats. You may hide, but he will hunt you with dogs. Your old men will die, and your women and children will be taken prisoners. It is all idle talk. Oseola is wrong. The nation must go!" 
               A man who could speak in this manner was a serious obstacle in the path of the wily plotter,-an obstacle to be removed; but how was the question. Charley-Emathla was a dangerous man to trifle with, for, independently of his personal strength and courage, he had a considerable band of devoted followers. Violence, then, was not to be thought of until all other means of silencing him on the subject of the treaty had failed. In the mean time Oseola did not want Itunwah to have the power to defeat his plans, which too great knowledge of them would enable him to do; still less was he willing to trust his confederate beyond what was necessary to accomplish his purposes, for, like all subtle politicians, he had no confidence in the tools he used. 
               "I will go to Micco-nope and talk to him," he said, after a pause, during which he seemed to be absorbed in thought. "He will listen to his son. I will meet my brother at the green-corn dance." 
               He turned away as he spoke, when Itunwah touched him gently on the arm and said, "Has my brother spoken to the people, as he promised?" 
               "Not yet; you must do more." 
               "What more do you want, chief?" asked the savage, with a scowl. "Have I not been your dog, and carried messages in my mouth?" 
               "Itunwah must be patient." 
               "Patient!" bitterly repeated the savage; "I have been patient. Have I not been patient when the children pointed at me and laughed? Have I not been patient when the women called me 'the drunken dog of the whites'? Patient! heh!" 
               "Enough!" sternly interrupted Oseola. "I remember my promise, and will keep it, when the time comes. The past shall be forgotten." 
               He had again turned away, when something in the hummock startled him; something which his trained senses warned him to be wary of; something which he heard and perhaps saw, for his eyes moved restlessly in their sockets, and his form assumed the attitude of one intently listening. Drawing in his arms, he sank on his knees, laid down the bundles of sticks, and put his ear close to the ground. The next moment he arose with a smile, which revealed through his thin lips a row of exquisitely white teeth, and said, "It's the trader Hill, on one of his thieving trips to cheat the people of their skins. I leave him to Itunwah. I go!" 
               So saying, Oseola turned off and entered the hummock. 
               Itunwah listened to the parting words of the chief with a sinister smile on his brutal face. His practiced ear had also detected the sounds which how audibly broke the silence of the wilderness. Sinking down until his scalp-lock was barely discernible above the waving vegetation, his huge form gradually disappeared from the spot, his malignant eyes, from under their beetling brows, glittering through the tall grass like the baneful gaze of the moccasin snake whilst gliding toward its prey. 
               The sun's rays had scarcely tinged the tree-tops and dispelled the darkness lingering in the woods, robbing them of all their terrors, when a small covered wagon made its appearance, and was halted near the spot where the two Indians had just parted. 
               The driver of "the concern" was a man apparently about forty-five years of age, and evidently belonged to that class of traders always to be found on the outskirts of civilization, and who maintain themselves in advance even of the adventurous pioneers of the wilderness,-being, like certain lichens which serve to mark the termination of vegetable life in the Arctic regions, the last outgrowth of trade on the frontier. Sharp and cunning by nature and habit, they easily overreach the dull settlers of the South and West, and find still easier and more valuable prey in the Indian. 
                
               Connecticut has the reputation of furnishing the most unscrupulous of these adventurers; but, for our part, we have seen as keen and unprincipled traders from the Old Dominion as ever hailed from the Nutmeg State, the only difference, so far as we could observe, being, that while the one boasted of his "forefathers," the other "bet" on his immediate "kith and kin." 
               Whatever specie is in circulation is sure to fall into the hands of these peddlers; and, in return, the settlers, squatters, Hoosiers, Wolverines, or by what name soever the inhabitants of the locality may be designated, are supplied with Yankee clocks, needles and thread, pails, kettles, tin-ware, combs, pipes, and tobacco, and other "notions," as the miscellaneous assortment of a peddler's wagon is comprehensively called. In addition to these articles, the Indian is accommodated with gewgaws and trinkets, valuable only to himself. 
               If their trade were confined to these simple wares, the peddlers might be said to be a useful, and, notwithstanding their exorbitant charges, a meritorious class; but, unfortunately for the Indians, their most profitable, and sometimes only, stock in trade consisted of whisky,-the red man's curse, the skeleton in his lodge,-for, under its baneful influences, he loses every virtue that he has, and becomes a very beast in his passions and propensities. 
               Abel T. Hill, our new acquaintance, was well aware of this weakness of the Indians, and took advantage of it on all occasions, caring nothing for the broken heads, exhausted pockets, or ruined characters of his savage customers, if he only succeeded in putting "money in his purse." The fact was, Hill had come into the nation to make a fortune in the shortest possible time and in the shortest possible way, but he was careful to avoid compromising himself with the United States authorities,-he was too cunning for that,-and already had accumulated a pretty property in St. Augustine, with which he "calcelated" to return, in another season, to Marblehead, Massachusetts, "whar," to use his own expressive phraseology, "he was hived." 
               The peddler had apparently been traveling through the whole of the night, for his horse was jaded, and he himself in that listless state which indicates great weariness. 
               Dropping the reins on the pony's back, to allow it to nibble the tall grass which grew so thickly around, he stretched himself with a yawn, drew from his pocket a pipe, and, while preparing it for use, indulged in sundry reflections aloud. 
               "An etarnal long hummock, to be sure! no eend to it except whar you go in. I guess I have been nigh upon ten hours (looking at his watch), yes, all of ten hours in this plaguey place, and this is the first scrap of open daylight I've seen. The road is no great shakes, neither; is it, Ned? (addressing the pony.) I allot the critter is hungry, and thinking of oats; and, for that matter, so be I. But, hollo! what have we here? A fresh trail, by cracky! Not an hour old,-and red sticks to boot! If that don't mean danger, A. T. hasn't cut his eye-teeth, and isn't up to Indian devilry." 
               The keen eye of the peddler, sharpened by a sojourn in the wilderness, where one soon acquires habits of close observation, if he does not already possess them, as our readers are aware, had not deceived him. 
               Finding in the trampled grass the footprints of Indians, and near by the bundle of sticks where Oseola had laid them, he at once suspected their significance, and thus continued: "Now, I'll bet my bottom dollar 'gin a clay pipe that these redskins are gitting to cutting up rusty since they have larnt that they must go. I suspicioned as much when Itunwah ran away, after that licking I gin him for stealing liquor. The beggar owes me two deerskins and three York shillings for honest whisky sold him, to say nothing of the brandy he gobbled; and I don't see how I am to be paid unless Congress passes a law making Indians niggers, in which case Itunwah belongs to me, and nobody else. But these sticks,-that's the business now. I shouldn't wonder if--" 
               The whiplike crack of the deadly rifle, at this instant, rang through the area. The luckless peddler, shot through the body, grasped convulsively the sides of the wagon-seat and stared wildly around, while a spasm shook his frame, and the life-blood gurgled in his throat, as he made a vain effort to cry out; then springing to his feet, he uttered a great sigh, and fell with a thud headforemost to the ground. 
               Immediately the grim visage of Itunwah rose from the grass near the center of the area, where a small wreath of light-blue smoke curled and faded away. Bounding forward like a panther on its prey, he gained the spot where the peddler was lying already dead, the fatal bullet having but too well accomplished its work. 
               "Ho, ho!" he chuckled, with fearful glee, "Itunwah has at last got Hill's scalp! I said it, d--n you!" And, jerking out his knife, he knelt down and plunged it furiously into the body. 
               Then gathering the hair in a large lock at the crown, he passed the keen edge of his knife around a space about the size of an ordinary palm. Putting up the weapon, he arose to his feet, and setting one foot on the neck of his victim seized the portion of separated hair and tore it from the reeking skull. 
               Shaking his trophy in the air, Itunwah burst into a terrific war-whoop which called forth a thousand echoes from the dismal hummock, and, with gratified revenge, stole swiftly from the scene of blood. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE COUNCIL. 
               THE morning succeeding the events detailed in the preceding chapter dawned bright and fair upon Suwanee-Old-Town,
                     We confess to an anachronism here. Suwanee-Old-Town was burnt by the United States troops in 1818.
                   the scene now of the narrative. 
               It was an old Indian settlement on the Suwanee River, which rises in the Okee-fi-nokee Swamp and flows in a southerly course, fed here and there by sundry small streams, until the accumulated waters are discharged into the Gulf of Mexico. 
               The town was situated on a bluff in a pear-shaped projection of the west bank of the river, the ground thence gradually falling off to the edge of a dense cypress hummock which stretched entirely across the narrow neck of the projection, completely isolating the town from the interior on that side. Secret trails ran through this hummock to a pine-barren beyond, which were cunningly contrived, and had been carefully concealed from the knowledge of the white man, the Seminoles being too suspicious of the pale-face to trust him with a secret the possession of which at some future day might prove their ruin. 
               The original builders of Suwanee-Old-Town no doubt had intended, in selecting a home, to hide it from prying eyes, for the first lodges were placed in the hummock, as it then existed, at some distance from the river; but as the number of tenements increased, the hummock was gradually cleared away, until there remained on the river side of the town only a thin fringe of undergrowth and a few centenarian live-oaks and cypresses, which very imperfectly screened the place from the spectator on the opposite bank. 
               The lodges were placed here and there on the bluff without the slightest regard to order,-some being perched on the part nearest the river, some on the edge of the hummock, some partially and some entirely hid within its gloomy recesses, whilst others, as if disdaining concealment, or perhaps from the fancy of the owners, occupied high ground in the center of the clearing. The greater number of lodges were located in irregular rows around a square building of pitch-pine logs, of more pretension than the rest, covered with a thatching of palmetto. 
               This building was the council-house. 
               The lodges themselves were mere shells,-the poorest apologies for habitations, being constructed of upright and cross pieces tied together and thatched, with neither doors nor windows. They looked as if a gust of wind would blow them down, or take them up into the air like a balloon. They were stronger, however, than they appeared to be, and served the purpose for which they had been erected, namely, as storehouses and shelters, the inhabitants preferring to live, as a general thing, in the open air rather than to be cooped up in such narrow quarters. The ferry by which the town was entered on the river side was in the bend opposite the bluff, and was approached by numerous well-worn paths on the side of the town, and by a raised pathway of logs and brush running through a mass of bushes from the opposite quarter. The river here widened into a lakelike expanse, which, in times of freshet, covered these bushes and encroached on the pine-barren beyond, but at other times was converted into a swamp in-infested by snakes, alligators, and all manner of water-loving creatures. 
               We are thus minute in our description in order that the reader may understand what we are hereafter about to narrate. 
               Although day had scarcely dawned, and the air was still so fresh as to mark the course of the river by a long line of white vapor, Suwanee-Old-Town was in a bustle. It was not, however, the usual noise and stir of an Indian village. The squaws were not washing on the river-bank or drudging in the lodges, the boys were not playing at ball or engaged with bows and arrows in mimic warfare, the warriors were not lazily stretched on their blankets or cleaning their guns at the fires; but all things wore a festive air, befitting the occasion about to be celebrated,-an occasion of merry-making, the anniversary of the green-corn dance, when, having gathered the crop and seen that it was good, the people gave themselves up to festivity and enjoyment. 
               The dance was to begin at sunrise, and as all the inhabitants of the town, without distinction of age or sex, were to participate in it, the squaws ran from lodge to lodge, children ran after the squaws, and dogs after the children. A sort of carnival prevailed, and fun and frolic resounded on all sides; practical joking was the order of the day, the most remarkable part of it being that no one got angry, however rough the joke. The graver portion of the community meanwhile arrayed themselves for the dance, and many and anxious were the consultations as to the most becoming manner this particular ornament was to be worn or that particular kind of paint applied, and frequent were the glances cast in their small looking-glasses. Many were already in costumes which, though not strictly in accordance ance with civilized ideas, were at least striking and picturesque. 
               As the dance commemorated the gathering of the crop, corn in every stage of development formed an essential decoration of the various dresses. 
               One brave, not content with the genuine article, had stripped his body nude to the waist and painted it in imitation of a gigantic ear of corn; another looked like a huge stalk, so enveloped was he in leaves; and a third was equally invisible in a complete covering of the same plant. 
               Each sought to astonish his neighbor by some new and startling conceit. 
               But let us turn to the council-house, toward which the eyes of all were at times impatiently directed. Since midnight the "head-men" had been there assembled,-men of rank and note in the nation. 
               Micco-nope, the king, occupied a skin opposite the entrance. He was an Indian of immense size, rendered more noticeable by the contrast he presented to the lean and bony figures assembled around him. 
               His face was fat like his figure, and bore unmistakable signs of good nature and good living; but at the moment of which we write it was screwed up into an expression of ill humor, which threatened every moment to explode, to the great scandal of an Indian council. Micco-nope was appareled in a red flannel hunting-shirt, which sat with as much grace on his huge body as it would have done on a beer barrel. Rattlesnake-skins clothed his legs a short distance above his knees, leaving bare his ponderous thighs. 
               Behind the king, with folded arms and downcast eyes, in an evidently assumed attitude of humility, stood his sense-bearer, Abram. The appearance of Abram was such as to justify the belief that he was fully equal to this extraordinary demand upon his mental faculties; for although his figure was diminutive, and his face black as jet, with a flat nose, immense protuberant lips, and eyes red as rabbits', still his general expression and the form of his head indicated much greater powers of mind than are usually found in the negro. His scalp-lock was combed up ostentatiously on the organ of firmness, and was held there by several silver rings, the obstinacy of the wool evidently requiring some such restraint on its tendencies to mingle with the thicket below. 
               Abraim's dress did not differ from the usual costume of the Seminoles,-the turban, hunting-shirt, leggings, and moccasins. No one regarding the black, as he stood behind his master, could have failed to see, notwithstanding his affectation of humility, that he felt himself the equal, at least, of any one present. 
               On Micco-nope's right, with composed mien and unblinking eye gazing straight before him, sat Charley-Emathla, the friend of the whites and the chief of the peace-party. He was an Indian of commanding figure, exceeding in size any one present but Micco-nope. His face was large and handsome, the expression frank and open, the features well formed, and the complexion a clear, dusky red. It was impossible to contemplate the high, retreating forehead, the small back head, and the way the whole rose from the muscular shoulders, without being impressed with the moral and intellectual superiority of the face of this chief over the bad and crafty countenances on his right and left. 
               Philip, or King Philip, as he was called, sat next to Charley-Emathla. He was a small, spare man, past the prime of life, with an insignificant face, covered with wrinkles, and as dark nearly as a negro's. Cunning lurked in every line and feature, and a remorseless nature shone from his small, snakelike eyes. 
                
               A severe-looking old savage, of gaunt frame and forbidding aspect, not unlike a huge, superannuated ape, sat at Micco-nope's left. It was Apiaca, or Sam Jones the Fisherman. His hair was long and flowing, and as white as snow; and beside him lay an immense walking-stick, which his great age compelled him to use. Of all the chiefs present, he was the most inveterate enemy of the whites; for he hated them bitterly, was as cunning as a fox, spared no means to gratify his malice, and, above all, was a great medicine-man or conjurer. He was an arrant coward, however, and never ventured his carcass within reach of bullet, always standing off and dancing whilst the warriors were fighting. But still he exercised a powerful influence among his tribe, for he could charm a trail so that it would be invisible; could tell a war-party where the enemy was; what that enemy was doing; how many fighting men he had, and when it would be advisable to attack him. Again, he could instruct a party of hunters where to find game; how to entrap it; what signs to trust or distrust; whether it would rain, and where it would be best to encamp. 
               In like manner, he was the oracle of the family circle, and could inform a squaw whether she would have a good crop of corn and sweet potatoes, and where to find a stray cow; or a young maiden how to obtain a husband, and what his appearance would be. 
               In a word, Apiaca was a professional conjurer or wizard, and few things of a public or private nature were done in the nation without a previous consultation with him. 
               Many other chiefs of note were there present: Otalke-Thlocco, the Prophet; Halpattar-Tustenuggee, the Crazy Alligator; Otee-Emathla, or Jumper; Coa-Coochee, or Wild Cat; Holattar-Micco, or Billy Bowlegs; Tuste-Nuggee, or Tiger Tail; and others with like euphonious names. All were in place but Oseola, the singer of the Black Drink;
                     A tea composed of star-grass, slippery-elm, and palmetto leaves, used by the head-men of the Seminoles before the assembling of important councils. It is drunk three times a day for seven consecutive days. Oseola was the cup-bearer on these occasions, and hence his name, Black Drink, from the color of the liquid.
                   his seat was vacant, and the ceremony of thanking the Great Spirit for abundant crops could not begin till he had carried round the cup of Black Drink for each chief to taste, that he might thereby receive wisdom, strength, and courage,-the three requisites in the character of a perfect warrior. Several hours had elapsed since the "head-men" had taken their seats, and no one had manifested any impatience but Micco-nope, whose face was growing more and more sour with the passing time. 
               The sun was now up, and its level beams came in at the door. 
               "Who speaks for the Black Drink?" he at last exclaimed, starting up and waving his hand over the grim circle of chiefs; "if any one knows where he is, let him say." And Micco-nope sat down. 
               "He will come presently," said Philip, from his place. 
               "He is on the way," said Apiaca, apologetically. 
               "Hola-wagus-cha!"
                     Literally, "it is bad."
                   returned the old king, with an angry snort. An assenting murmur passed around the council,-it was not in the humor to be trifled with. A silence of some minutes ensued, to be broken by a general movement as the individual in question stalked silently through the numerous groups without, entered the council house, stopped short, and, drawing his figure up to its full height, gazed sternly around. 
               His attitude, as he thus stood in all the grace of untrammeled trammeled nature, his symmetrical figure clad in the scanty but picturesque garb of his people, presented a rare combination of dignity and strength, and would have made a study for the poet or painter. 
               Advancing into the circle of chiefs, whose eyes were fixed upon him in earnest expectation, he extended his arms, and, in a voice whose trumpet-like tones were admirably calculated to arrest the attention of a savage assemblage, thus addressed them: 
               "Listen, chiefs of the Seminole-ulgee,
                     Seminole nation.
                   to what the Great Spirit says to the Isti-Chatti!
                     Red man.
                   Asse-se-he-hola
                     Osceola.
                   has been on a strange trail; he followed a white fawn, and it led him to the grave of the nation, where the river which runs between the hills, the swift-gliding Withla-coochee, and the still Panasufkee mingle.
                     The cove of the Withlaeoochee River, the most remarkable swamp in Florida.
                   The trail was long, the day hot; he was tired, and slept. Does my father wish to know what the Black Drink saw?" he added, turning abruptly to Micco-nope, who sat gazing uneasily at him. 
               "M'ka;
                     Yes.
                   go on," said the old chief, in his deepest guttural. 
               Oseola continued, in a clear, ringing voice, which could be distinctly heard outside the council-house: 
               "He saw a path which went off into many trails, and. many warriors went in them, some toward the rising and some toward the setting sun; and some were straight, like my father's words, and some were crooked, like the words of the Iste-Hatki.
                     White man.
                   This crooked one for the Creeks, who are snakes, and go on their bellies; this crooked one for the Cherokees, who are red men with paleface face customs, and live in the mountains; and this, eigh! this straight one for the Seminoles!" 
               At this announcement, the usual monosyllable with which any startling intelligence is received by Indians broke from several of the younger men, whilst the eager looks of all showed how much they were interested in the Black Drink's vision. He perceived the interest he had aroused, and now added, in a deliberate manner, as if wishing his hearers to understand and weigh well his words,- 
               "It was a red war-path, and led--" 
               "Where?" interrupted the sonorous voice of Charley-Emathla. 
               "To the settlements, chief," replied Oseola, turning and eying his questioner with a fierce smile. "You were not in it; you had turned from it; you had followed the bent of a crooked mind and taken a crooked trail. The old men begged you to stop, but you would not; the women cried for protection, but you laughed; the bones of your fathers appealed from the hills, but you closed your ears; your head was down, your face averted; a pack was on your back, and you went toward the west with your children by the hand; yes, you shrank before the Iste-Hatki's whip!" Here Oseola fixed his eyes upon the king and continued: "But my father was there with his young men, in their war-paint; and Philip, with Coa-Coochee, the Wild Cat; and Apiaca, from the Piaoke, with Holattar-Micco, from the Everglades; and Halpattar-Tus-tenuggee; and you, and you," rapidly designating the principal men by name. 
               The warriors thus appealed to, excepting Micco-nope, who doggedly kept his seat, started up, and uttering one shrill war-whoop, sat down again. 
               As these stirring sounds greeted the ears of the multitude tude without, they could scarcely restrain their impatience. A crowd began to assemble at the door of the council-house, and several young men ventured to push their way inside, and to talk loud,-a forwardness, however, which was signally rebuked by an old chief, who sent them to the rear with the mortifying remark that "they were turkeys, and did not know what they were gobbling at." Oseola waited patiently until the excitement had somewhat subsided, and then said,- 
               "Shall the Black Drink go on?" 
               Reading assent in the eager and attentive looks of his listeners, he dropped all metaphor, and launched out boldly on the real object of his address. 
               He vividly pictured to them the wrongs they had suffered at the hands of the whites, alluding particularly to persons present. One had lost a cow; another a favorite pony; a third had been ignominiously expelled from a plantation: all had some cause of grievance. And having thus worked upon their individual feelings, he recalled to their minds the traditions of their fathers of the greatness of the nation before the white man had come among them, and contrasted it with its present fallen fortunes, the mock and the jest of its enemies. He pointed to their desecrated mounds and deserted towns; he alluded to the ever-increasing encroachments of the whites on their hunting-grounds, and the insolent claim they had set up for their possession; he dwelt on their wanderings among hostile tribes of savages in the Far West; and lastly, seeing that their passions were aroused by his glowing words to the requisite pitch, he drew up the sleeve of his hunting-shirt, and, exhibiting his wrists where the marks made by handcuffs were visible to all, he exclaimed, in a touchingly plaintive voice,- 
               "I am an Indian,-a warrior,-and not a slave! My skin is red, not black. I do not belong to the white man; he cannot brand me like his cows.
                     Owners of plantations possessed large herds of cattle, which roamed wild over the country. In the spring of the year they were penned up in the pine-barrens and branded with the owner's mark, so that they could be identified. This was a prolific source of trouble between the Indians and the whites, the latter, frequently claiming the cattle which belonged to the former.
                   Look, chiefs of the Seminoles, on the shame of a brother!" 
               All the boasted and thrice-sung stoicism of the Indian character vanished at this affecting appeal. The wily chief had understood his hearers, and had framed his oration to suit the prejudices and passions of all. Whoops and yells at once responded. Grasping their arms, the chiefs rose tumultuously to their feet, and with Micco-nope feebly yelling in their midst (he had been set upright most unaccountably to himself), they rushed from the council-house. 
               Outside, the commotion was equally great. The number of warriors by this time assembled could not have been less than a thousand, consisting principally of the followers of the hostile chiefs, with a few of Micco-nope's own band. Of this multitude a large majority comprehended what was about to take place, and stood ready to support any one bold enough to denounce their hated enemy. Others-few in number-were also in the secret, but being advocates of the peace-party, were averse to any demonstration of the kind; whilst most of the young men had no suspicion of what was in contemplation, and only joined in the clamor through the same kind of sympathy which we find in civilized assemblages. 
               But in all popular movements among Indians, as among white men, there are always many to follow and few to lead; and of the large number of chiefs present, perhaps no one of sufficient nerve could have been found willing to precipitate events, if Oseola had not spoken out, and furnished a vent to his own passions, and thus afforded opportunity for the expression of the pent-up feelings of others. 
               Fearful indeed was the outbreak. Howls that would have done credit to Pandemonium broke from savage throats, scalping-knives gleamed in the bright sunlight on every side, and the most malignant passions were depicted in ill-favored faces. Some, not content with whooping, brandishing their knives and slaying imaginary foes, had assumed grotesque attitudes, and were making hideous grimaces to express, as it were, the intensity of their hostility; while others whisked and flourished through the crowd, uttering cries and boastful speeches, in a manner to excite laughter rather than fear, if it were possible to laugh at such a display of malignity. 
               To complete the strange picture and render it more, grotesque, a large number of women and children had assembled beyond the outer circle of warriors, and were zealously occupied in contorting their bodies and contributing their quota to the uproar with the utmost power of their lungs. 
               Altogether the scene was one which can be witnessed only in a barbarous assemblage, abandoned to its worst impulses and unfettered by restraints of any kind. 
               The chiefs rushed into this furious multitude, and calling together their immediate followers, acquainted them with the purport of the Black Drink's vision, and what was evidently the will of the Great Spirit. The story lost none of its supernatural features in the narration, and was received with joyful demonstrations and frequent cries of "Momus-cha,
                     A phrase much used by the Seminoles to express approbation.
                  -it is good." 
                
               But there stood one in the midst of the scene on whom the eloquence of Oseola had been exerted in vain. It would be unjust to say of Charley-Emathla that he had listened unmoved to Oseola's appeal. His denunciation of himself was an oft-repeated trick, and he treated it with haughty indifference; but when Oseola dwelt on the wrongs of the nation, and pictured their wandering among hostile tribes of savages in the Far West, the chief felt the power of his rival more sensibly than he was willing to admit even to himself. He drew a deep breath, the lines around his mouth became harsh and repulsive, and his hand involuntarily clutched the knife at his side; but as he did so he caught the triumphant gaze of Oseola fixed upon him, and the reflection intruded itself of the utter folly of attempting to cope with the powerful white man. It was enough. His hand dropped, the muscles around the corners of his mouth relaxed, and he sat as unmoved in the midst of the clamor as a figure of bronze. Left alone in his place, Charley-Emathla quietly arose, took his rifle, and passed out of the council-house and through the crowd, unnoticed save by Micco-nope, Oseola, and a few scowling warriors. Followed by his two sons, the chief of the peace party-now existing only in name-directed his steps to a point on the river-bank where a canoe was tied. Entering it with the young men, he paddled swiftly to the other side, and disappeared in the forest. 
               But where, all this time, was Micco-nope? The irresolute old chief waddled to his lodge, content, perforce, to acquiesce in what he could not prevent, but inwardly groaning with apprehension and doubt, now that Charley-Emathla had gone, and resolved to drown care in a good supper of koontee,
                     Florida arrowroot.
                   trout, and sofka,
                     Pounded corn.
                   garnished by a fat young gopher,
                     A species of land tortoise found in the pine-barrens of Florida.
                   which the providence of Abram had provided. 
               Meanwhile the master-spirit who had raised the storm which even he could not now allay, had he desired so to do, with bowed head, and face cunningly hid in the folds of his hunting-shirt, that the people might not see his exultation, slowly left the council-house, and took his way, by one of the numerous cross trails intersecting the plain, to a distant part of the town. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               ITUNWAH. 
               A CELEBRATED Seminole chief, discoursing upon the peculiarities of his people, once quaintly said, "Indians are like fleas,-put your finger on 'em, and they are not there." There is truth in the remark, however we may understand it. Nowhere in history do we find accounts of such a remarkable race of savages, who talk so wisely yet act so foolishly, whose movements are so capricious, and whose character is such a singular mixture of good and evil,-the heroic and the abject, the grotesque and the dignified. Not destitute of virtues, the Indian is prone to the lowest vices. He is patient, eloquent, and hospitable; he has fortitude, courage, and firmness; but he will lie and steal, and drink to the worst excess, is treacherous, cruel, and ungrateful, untamable as the hyena, and implacable as the viper. 
                
               Says Irving, in his Sketch Book, "There is something in the character and habits of the North American savage, taken in connection with the scenery over which he is accustomed to range,-its vast lakes, boundless forests, majestic rivers, and trackless plains,-that is, to my mind, wonderfully striking and sublime. He is formed for the wilderness, as the Arab is for the desert. His nature is stern, simple, and enduring; fitted to grapple with difficulties and to support privations. There seems but little soil in his heart for the support of the kindly virtues; and yet, if we could take the trouble to penetrate through that proud stoicism and habitual taciturnity which lock up his character from casual observation, we should find him linked to his fellow-man of civilized life by more of those sympathies and affections than are usually ascribed to him. No hero of ancient or modern times can surpass the Indian in lofty contempt of death, and the fortitude with which he sustains its cruelest inflictions. Indeed, we have beheld him rising superior to the white man, in consequence of his peculiar education. The latter rushes to glorious death at the cannon's mouth; the former calmly contemplates its approach, and triumphantly endures it amid the varied torments of surrounding foes, and the protracted agonies of fire. He even takes a pride in taunting his persecutors, and provoking their ingenuity of torture; and, as the devouring flames prey upon his very vitals, and the flesh shrinks from the sinews, he raises his last song of triumph, breathing the defiance of an unconquered heart, and invoking the spirit of his fathers to witness that he dies without a groan." 
               On the other hand, a distinguished army officer who has recently made an inspection of military posts in Montana Territory, thus alludes to the red man: "The ideal Indian of the popular mind is found only in poetry and in Cooper's novels. The Indian who now inhabits the plains is a dirty beggar and thief, who murders the weak and unprotected, but never attacks an armed foe. He keeps no promises, and makes them only the more easily to carry on his murder and pillage. He knows no sentiment but revenge and fear, and cares only to live in his vagrancy. All efforts to better his condition have added and will but add to his debt of ingratitude, and prove unproductive of any real good. The fact that one Indian in a thousand has been civilized proves nothing; neither is anything proved by the fact that our own people can sometimes become as low, deceitful, and murderous as the Indian. The Indian Bureau has pampered these rascals, armed them, and yielded to their demands, until many of them neither fear the government nor believe it has the ability to defend itself." 
               Now, why these antagonistic views? Why is the Indian "a striking and sublime character," as represented by Irving, and "a dirty beggar and thief," as portrayed by the officer? The truth is, as we have before intimated, the Indian is a bundle of inconsistencies, and it is one thing to write of him in the closet and quite another to encounter him in the woods,-an ideal being in the one case, in the other a wild man having many grand qualities to recommend him, but at the same time possessed of some of the worst passions and traits that disgrace human nature. Imagine a being, thus organized, under the influence of an unscrupulous white man, and you have the case of Itunwah and the peddler. It is immaterial how the two became acquainted, whether on one of the frequent visits of the former into the settlements or of the latter into the nation. Suffice it to say, that some time before the commencement of our narrative Itunwah had made himself useful to Hill in a variety of ways, but chiefly as a decoy to the numerous Indians who traded at the store, and who were, as a matter of course, governed more or less in their purchases by the advice of one of their own people. 
               Itunwah received no wages of Hill; he would have scorned such service. "He did all for the love of his white brother, and his white brother did everything for the love of him; but if the 'open-handed' chose to give him (Itunwah) a little rum or whisky, he would not refuse it." Hill was tolerably liberal in this particular; and when the scapegoat had got what he so much coveted, with the prize under his arm, he would hurry to his lodge in the pine-barren, and there, with a few choice spirits, white, red, and black (for there were some whites who did not object to getting drunk with the Indian, however much they might despise him), he would dance and sing till the brown jug was empty. 
               His debauch over, Itunwah again sought the peddler's shanty and again plied his trade, heedless of the remonstrances of his friends, who endeavored to dissuade him from his ignoble course. 
               But one day, one fatal day for Hill, Itunwah had broken into a box of choice brandy, and drank unsparingly of its contents before he was discovered. "Sich liquor as I sells only to my gent customers," said the peddler in recounting his grievances to a crony. "The nigger gulped it down as if it was water, darn him!-liquor worth three-fifty a gallon by the ship-load, and skeerse at that! But I'll whale him for it! I'll take it out of his black hide this minute!" 
               Following out this amiable declaration, the peddler armed himself with a cowskin, and sought his faithless drudge. He found him in an outhouse, coiled away, with the instinct of drunkenness, under a pile of skins, and first rousing him with several severe kicks, he got him on his feet, and, administering the whip, drove him howling through the store into the street, where a laughing crowd of white men had assembled to see the fun. 
               "Go it, redskin! Go it, Hill! Two to one on Abel!" shouted the crowd, as Itunwah came into view with quarter-horse speed, followed by the enraged peddler; "Hit him again, he has got no friends!" 
               Thus urged on, Hill chased his victim into a fence-corner, where, crouching down, he drew his blanket over his head in token of submission. Not yet, however, did the peddler cease his blows. There are certain men whom submission only provokes to greater brutalities, and Hill was one of them. He clearly did not comprehend the Indian; his blood was up, too, and he remembered other peculations of his victim, and was resolved, now that his hand was in, to pay off old scores, so he scourged Itunwah till his arms ached. He then let him up with a kick, and the injunction "not to come near the shanty, or he would larrup him again." 
               Burning with rage and mortification, which the liquor he had drunk served but to inflame, Itunwah fled into the pine-barren-he neither knew nor cared whither, except to escape from the terrible peddler. Fury was in his heart, agony on his brow; a thousand mocking fiends seemed to people the wilderness and follow him as he fled furiously onwards to escape the overwhelming consciousness of disgrace, for Itunwah had not yet fallen to that lowest depth in the drunkard's career when honor and dishonor are equally matters of indifference. 
               The greater part of the day he continued his mad flight. Toward evening, weary and sore, he paused on the bank of a small stream far from the scene of his punishment, sat himself down, and leaned forward to drink of its water and to bathe his lacerated back. He was sober now for the first time in many days, and was consequently incapable of thought. His brain reeled with weakness, fantastic figures danced before his disordered vision, and he trembled with an undefined dread of he knew not what. 
               A fox crossed the stream near by, and he shouted to it to stop and talk with him, a great warrior! 
               A wolf howled in the pine-barren, and he cowered on the ground in abject fear. 
               The cawing of some crows in a neighboring tree sounded like the derisive laughter of white men, and he laughed shrilly in return. 
               A line of ants, that issued from the roots of a dead pine, suddenly assuming gigantic proportions, swarmed upon him, and he frantically strove to brush them from his person. He started up to fly, but his limbs refused their office, and he sank down paralyzed,-down, down, an immeasurable distance, into a horrible abyss. 
               Again, in imagination, he was driven through the mocking crowd of white men, and felt the peddler's blows, and, no longer able to control his rage, he groveled on the ground, and hoarsely cried, "He shall die! Itunwah will drink his blood! the owls shall hoot over him, and the wolves gnaw of his bones,-hoo! hoo!" And the savage gave way to one of those paroxysms of impotent rage that some wild animals display on being caught in a trap. He foamed at the mouth and tore his hair, whilst the solemn stillness of the wilderness was interrupted by his howls and curses. But to resume the course of our story. 
               Oseola found Itunwah asleep. Rousing him, the chief drew from the reluctant savage an account of the whipping he had received at the hands of the peddler. A blow is the greatest indignity you can offer an Indian. You may ridicule or cheat him, and he will think it a good joke; but strike him, and sooner or later the insult must be expiated in blood. Even an accidental blow is resented, and you must make it very plain that it was unintentional before it will be overlooked. 
               Oseola's indignation was great when he heard Itunwah's story and saw his lacerated back. "You shall kill Hill, and give him to the crows," he said, with a decision far more impressive than the other's rage. 
               "Does Oseola promise this?" demanded the savage, eagerly. 
               "M'ka,-I promise it." 
               "When?" 
               "At the proper time. Meanwhile Itunwah must do his brother a service." 
               "What do you want me to do?" 
               "To take some words to Micco-nope." 
               "I do not like to go to his town; he looked coldly upon me when I was last there." 
               "He will smile upon you as the Black Drink's messenger." 
               Itunwah hesitated, and then said, "But the people?" 
               "Will be glad to see Oseola's friend." 
               "And the mother of Itunwah's pickaninnies,
                     A corruption of the Spanish word "peqneno"-little.
                  -the squaw?" 
               "Shall welcome him to her lodge." 
               The savage started up and drew in his belt, by way of signifying his readiness to obey the chief's commands. 
               The latter was concise in his orders. Itunwah would go to Micco-nope and the several hostile chiefs, and sound them as to their willingness to engage in immediate war against the whites. 
               His messenger was not empowered to pledge him, Oseola, to any particular course of action, neither was he prepared pared to say what his course would be. But Itunwah was told enough to enable him to get a hearing from those whom he was commissioned to approach. The confidence reposed in him had an encouraging effect on the savage, for it gave him something to think of as well as something to do; and, above all, it offered a prospect of revenge,-of that revenge which he so ardently desired, and which he had solemnly determined to have, come what might. How faithfully this determination was kept has already been seen. 
               Leaving his dead enemy in the area, Itunwah directed his step toward Suwanee-Old-Town, where he had promised to meet Oseola at the green-corn dance. A child of the wilderness, he was at home in its tangled mazes. Its paths lay before him with as much certainty as the streets of a city to its inhabitants. It mattered not whether the sun shone or the sky was overcast, whether it was day to night, whether he was in the dismal hummock or dreary pine-barren; above, beneath, and around him were signs by which he read the way which he wished to follow, as unerringly as the bee returning to its hive or the beast to its lair. 
               Sometimes plunging into a smoking swamp which laid across his trail, its yellow waters teeming with reptile life, he would cross it in the shortest and most practicable line, and, emerging from its slimy bed, would enter hummocks, where the sun's rays never penetrated and the foot of white men had never trod, and threading their tangled labyrinths, would reappear on the edges of pine-barrens and savannas which had been scorched and desolated by fire. 
               Thus he strode on, untiring and self-reliant as an animal, unconscious that his trail was known, or that another keener than himself in forest strategy was gradually closing in upon him. 
             
             
                
               
                   
                     Sergeant Atkins. Page 51 
                  
                
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               A VETERAN 
               TOWARD the end of the day on which our story opened, three persons might have been seen toiling the road leading the area before alluded to as the scene of conference between Oseola and Itunwah; and of the death of the peddler. 
               Two of the party were on horseback, and dressed in the uniform of United States soldiers. The third was an Indian on foot, acting apparently as guide, for he was slightly in advance of the others. The elder, and, by his consequential air, the superior in rank, had probably seen half a century of hard service, judging by the deep seams that furrowed his bronzed and rather good-looking face. A massive gray moustache covered but did not conceal a large and well-formed mouth, garnished with yellow teeth, that owed their color less to nature than to the immoderate use of tobacco. His hair was cut short, or "cropped," as it is termed in the army, forming in this respect a singular contrast with his bushy moustache. He wore a gig-topped forage-cap, and his sky-blue jacket and pants were fitted closely to a low, squat, brawny figure, and were so cut as to give full play to the muscular limbs. A short cross-handled sword, broad and massive, and in shape like a huge bowie-knife, hung at his side in a belt, which also supported a bayonet-scabbard and cartouch-box, and strapped crosswise to the pommel of his saddle was the regular army musket. He was mounted on a substantial horse, branded on the left fore-shoulder with the letters "U. S.," which every one knows is "Uncle Sam's" sign-manual and proprietary mark. 
               Such in appearance was Sergeant Charles Atkins, of Company C, -- Regiment United States Artillery, otherwise called "Talking Charley," an old soldier every inch of him, as old soldiers used to be in "days of auld lang syne." Born and brought up in the army, he had served in every grade from drummer-boy to his present honorable office of first sergeant, or, as he liked better to style himself, "orderly sergeant" of C Company. His companion, whom he called Bolls, was not unlike him in form, but quite the reverse in feature. Straw-colored hair and beard, light staring organs of vision that looked as if they were in a chronic state of surprise, a snub-nose, and cheeks puffed out like Fame blowing her trumpet,-such is the face we would reproduce from memory,-a face which, notwithstanding its being very round, very red, and very fat, was not without some firmness and decision in the expression. 
               Bolls was a recruit, and had not yet been drilled, much less disciplined,-a fact which Sergeant Atkins took care he should not forget, having informed him with solemn emphasis, not, however, before he had "donned the blue," that, "like a young bear, all his troubles were to come!" 
               His story can be told in a paragraph. Allured by the sound of the drum and the fife, and the magnificent promises of the sergeant, Bolls had thrown away his axe (he had been a Maine lumberman) and shouldered a musket, merely stipulating, before taking this momentous step, that he should be assigned to duty with the old soldier, for whom he had conceived a strong attachment. The request was the more readily granted as the former at the time was drumming up recruits for his company, and Bolls was a stalwart, healthy-looking chap; and the two having met the Indian by appointment at Black Creek, were now on the way to join their command at Fort King. Sergeant Atkins was holding forth in an animated harangue at the moment we introduce him to the reader, addressing himself sometimes to his companion, but oftener to the Indian, with whom he appeared to be on the most intimate terms. Seemingly in continuation of an argument with the latter, he said, "You are mistaken, Bluesnake; I know you are mistaken." 
               The Indian shook his head. 
               "But I say you are. Your people are not without sense, and must know the consequences of going to war with the white man. Why, I'd bet my life I could march through the nation with fifty such fellows as Bolls here, and not a warrior would wag a finger. Hold up your head, and sit your horse like a man." This last remark was addressed to his companion, who, forthwith straightening himself in the saddle, brought his hand to the visor of his forage-cap by a formal sweep to the front, and rested it there. 
               The sergeant acknowledged the salute in due military style, and resumed: "As I was saying, Bluesnake, when Bolls here interrupted me, "it's my candid opinion that your people think more of their ball-plays and dances than of fighting. I ought to know, having served among 'em long enough, in all conscience,-eh, Bolls?" The recruit again touched his cap, and the old soldier continued: "Now there were the Sac and Foxes we campaigned against in '32, under Scott, and what with the cholera and the climate, to say nothing of the enemy, a terrible campaign it was." 
               The Indian here stopped an instant, and turned an inquiring look on the speaker. 
                
               "I do not mean in fighting, for the more you have of that the better," the latter added. 
               The native smiled and resumed the trail. 
               "Them were Indians! No pipe-stem human beings like you Southerners,-I mean no offense,-but big, round as one of those pines, and almost as tough. Lord! I'd as lief hug a bear as a full buck west'n Indian; not that they are so wiry and lithe as you fellows, but they have more spirit, and it is spirit that makes the man,-eh, Bolls?" The recruit assented, this time without touching his cap. "Draw in your chin, you goose! And, d'ye mind, touch your cap when your superior speaks to you. I touched my cap for fifteen years before anything came of it, and when it did come it was only by accident, as I may say. You see," continued the veteran, forgetting his momentary displeasure with his subordinate in the full tide of his loquacity, "I was stationed at Prairie du Chien, in '29, under Captain --, a modest man, as I'm ready to swear,-if anything, a thought too modest for a soldier, who is not expected to be overstocked with the article. Captain -- was always blushing, and for that matter so was the comp'ny, from the six-footers down to myself, who was left-hand file, being the smallest pattern in it,-for, thank goodness! I entered the service before a man's value was estimated in inches, as if God put spirit into a mortal according to his size! There we stood," added the sergeant, rising in his stirrups in a glow of professional pride, "heads up, eyes straight to the front, little fingers on the seams of our pants, fifty-five blushing soldiers, ready to open ranks when the colonel came round at Sunday inspection. Not a man there but what was a looking-glass to his neighbor. I saw my turn coming soon, and stood according to the rules, imitating, as far as nature would allow, a marble statue. 'Atkins,' says the colonel, taking my musket, and peeping into the barrel to see himself reflected there. 'Sir,' says I, quick and sharp as is usual. 'You have been drinking to-day,' says the colonel; 'your face is red, and you are unsteady in the ranks.' There was a situation for a soldier who didn't want to deceive his officer! I had been drinking, I allow; but you can't make a man criminate himself by confessing it. Besides, who ever heard a soldier acknowledge that he had been drinking? I have never met one yet, though I have seen many drunk. So, forgetting all about the unsteadiness, I said, 'I know my face is red, sir; but I always blushes when an officer speaks to me.' The colonel laughed, and passed on; and the captain, to keep from doing the same thing, had to snub one of the drummer-boys. That afternoon I was made a corporal. Some envious ones insinuated that it was the liquor blushed, not me; but that's a--well, well, it wasn't true, as I am ready to prove to any unprejudiced mind." 
               The Indian to whom we have alluded, and who had listened in quiet wonder to the sergeant's gabble, which long familiarity with that person's peculiarities had not served much to diminish, now claims our attention. 
               He was apparently about twenty-five years of age, showing by his settled countenance and staid demeanor that he had reached that period in the Indian life (which is earlier than the white man's) when vivacity is tempered with gravity and valor with discretion. 
               His face was good, indeed handsome; for, although the forehead was retreating, and the cheek-bones too high for perfect symmetry, yet his eyes were remarkably fine and full of fire, and his mouth, which was filled with beautifully white teeth, wonderfully small for an Indian. 
               His complexion was the usual one of his people,-a clean copper color. In figure he was exquisitely proportioned tioned, being above the ordinary height, and as straight as a pine; his deep chest and round, muscular limbs, free from any superfluous flesh, exhibiting evidences of great physical strength and endurance. 
               His hunting-shirt, leggings, and moccasins were more than ordinarily ornamented and frilled, his intercourse with the whites affording him frequent opportunities of indulging his natural taste for show and gewgaws. The scalp-lock (an appendage which an Indian brave is never without) was tied up and adorned with a variety of ribbons; huge silver rings hung from his ears, many-hued beads encircled his neck, and numerous brass bracelets his arms. 
               But the most remarkable ornament about him, and that which he prized almost as highly as the scalp-lock itself, was a large silver crescent, worn upon his breast, inscribed with the words, "To Bluesnake, from Company C, -- Regiment U. S. Artillery, for long and faithful service as a guide." 
               The weapons with which he was equipped consisted of a long and handsome rifle flung carelessly over his shoulder, and a formidable-looking knife stuck in his belt,-a powder-horn and pouch containing ammunition being slung around his waist. 
               We have thus somewhat minutely introduced to the reader one of the most important personages of our story, and will only add a few more particulars concerning him before resuming the dialogue or rather "soliloquy" (for Sergeant Atkins was having it all his own way) which we rather rudely interrupted when we commenced our portrait of Bluesnake. 
               He was a micco-succy warrior,-a member of the most ferocious of the Seminole tribes,-the tribe most opposed to the treaty. It was from this tribe that Oseola obtained most of his followers, but the guide was not one of them. He studiously held himself aloof from the chief, and although he often went into the nation to see his people, he was more frequently to be found at Fort King, where he was a great favorite with both officers and men. Sergeant Atkins and he had long been sworn comrades, having exchanged pipes and smoked together, than which ceremony no more binding act of friendship can be performed by an Indian. 
               The guide now spoke in excellent English, an accomplishment he had acquired in his intercourse with the whites. Following a train of thought suggested by the sergeant in contrasting the western tribes with his own degraded people, he said, "My father is a chief, and tells Bluesnake many strange things; his eyes are open, and have seen much; he has been among the Isti-Chatti of the West." 
               "Before you were born, warrior." 
               "The Isti-Chatti of the West are big men, and hunt the cibolo on horses." 
               "Buffalo, you mean." 
               "Cibolo," repeated the Indian, with quiet pertinacity. 
               "The Spanish for buffalo," muttered the sergeant, in a querulous tone. "Strange how that tongue has rooted out all others among Indians! It seems to have been made expressly for 'em. I believe in my heart that if there were a dozen words in English and only one in Spanish to express the same idea, the Indians would prefer the Spanish, or that other lingo, the French, which they jabber over at Orleans." 
               "Their hunting-grounds go from the 'Father of Waters' to the 'Great Hills' behind which the sun sleeps," continued Bluesnake, not noticing his friend's dissertation on language. 
               "Farther than that." 
                
               "They have plenty of room; the white man doesn't tread on their heels; they are free!" 
               "For the present they are, if your meaning be that the west'n Indians can hunt over a great extent of country without hearing the sound of the white man's axe or seeing the smoke of his clearings, every mile; but it is not in reason to expect such a state of things to last. The settlements are fast creeping out and hemming 'em in, sure and certain, so that the time will soon be at hand when they will have to become civilized, or give way to them that are." 
               "I have heard the old men say that the Isti-Chatti of the West are as the pines in the barrens." 
               "More like the leaves. You can't count 'em any more than you can count the buffalo." 
               "A heap!" exclaimed the Indian, musingly. 
               "I have seen their lodges extending for twenty miles along the Arkansaw, and the next day not the sign of a redskin." 
               "Suchus-cha!" 
               "Yes, all gone," said the sergeant, who understood the other's language. 
               "Where to?" 
               "The Lord knows,-following the buffalo, I suppose." 
               "Far?" 
               "I don't know what you call far, but I call it a great distance. It is hard to realize how far, unless you had traveled over it day after day, as I have done. You might put your hunting-grounds down in one corner of the Great Plains and not find 'em afterward." 
               "Thlocco-big!" laughingly exclaimed Bluesnake. 
               "Big is the word! It takes two moons to go from one end to the other,-most of the time among buffalo." 
               "Plenty." 
               "Plenty it is, but plenty it will not be for long. The buffalo are fast disappearing, and I sometimes think there is a sort of connection between them and the Indians, and they will go out together." 
               "The Isti-Chatti will live after the cibolo are gone," proudly said the guide. 
               "I doubt that, my son; they are dependent upon the buffalo for both food and clothing." 
               "The Isti-Chatti are men." 
               "That's the trouble," said the sergeant, shaking his head. "If they were animals they might scratch along even after the buffalo are exterminated; but, being men, they will starve, unless other means of living are opened up." 
               "The white man will take care of them." 
               "Charity begins at home with the white man." 
               "He must do it!" imperiously said the guide. 
               "Must is a masterful word, Bluesnake, and doesn't go down with the white man. There is no love lost between him and the Indian. They pretend to a great deal when they meet,-embrace, and all that sort of a thing,-but they barely tolerate each other, after all." 
               "So many Isti-Chatti will fight." 
               "They may do that, but in the end they will be destroyed." 
               Bluesnake remained silent for awhile, evidently reflecting on the bearing of his friend's words, then reluctantly said, "If my people refuse to go, will their great father send his soldiers to make them?" 
               "As certainly as the sun shines." 
               "Will he not talk to them first?" 
               "There has been too much talking already." 
               "Suppose they say we want time to get ready?" 
               "He will answer, you have had time enough." 
               "Suppose they say, we are poor and naked, and want food and clothing?" 
                
               "He will answer, I will give you both until you can find it in your new home." 
               "But this is our home," plaintively cried the guide. 
               "You gave it up." 
               Bluesnake emphatically shook his head. 
               "You did,-at Payne's Landing." 
               Bluesnake smiled sarcastically, and again shook his head. 
               "You are bound by the treaty." 
               "The treaty is a lie!" fiercely cried the guide. 
               "Lie or not, it is the law." 
               "Would the white man be bound by such a law?" asked the guide, with a scornful toss of his head. 
               "It's not for the like of us to argue that question. It's the law of the land, and must govern all who live under it." 
               "Then," said Bluesnake, with compressed lips, "my father must be ready to hear the war-whoop soon, for the nation will not go!" 
               "I hope you are mistaken, my son. They will think better of it when the time comes. It is a hard case, I admit." 
               "They will not go, and you cannot make them," doggedly said the guide. 
               "What mean you, warrior?" 
               "How many white men would it take to find me, if I chose to hide here?" Blueskin pointed to the hummock before him as he asked this question. 
               "You could be starved out." 
               The Indian laughed; and, perceiving the absurdity of his remark (for the hummock yields in abundance everything necessary to sustain life), the sergeant hastily added, "Or it could be cut down." 
               "My father knows the little animal called the fox." 
               "Shot lots on the Arkansaw." 
                
               "The fox creeps about the settlement and kills the chickens." 
               "And is caught for its tricks," laughed the sergeant. 
               "But it kills a great many chickens before it is caught," retorted the warrior, in a tone of exultation, which showed that, notwithstanding his adherence to the whites, he resented the injustice done his own people. 
               Bluesnake's answer provoked the old soldier, for he sharply rejoined, "I see your meaning, boy; your people will make war in a savage way." 
               The guide pushed doggedly ahead without reply, and the sergeant quickly added, "Well, well, my son, in any event you and I won't quarrel." 
               Bluesnake retraced his steps and silently grasped his friend's hand, then again moving forward, he paused at the entrance into the area heretofore described as the scene of the peddler's death. The day was drawing to a close as the Indian halted a moment for the soldiers to come up. Although the sun had not set, and its cheerful light streamed over wood and water, twilight was fast falling in the area. A few level beams had found their way through the foliage overhead, and fallen on the dense undergrowth, but feebly and lingeringly, as if loth to depart, and yet unable to resist the gloom which was marshaling its forces against them. 
               Bluesnake's approach was so stealthy as not to disturb a number of foul birds that were in the grass near the body of the murdered man, or perched on the trees around; but as the soldiers came up, they arose with a dull flapping of their heavy wings, and swept out of sight over the edge of the hummock. 
               "A dead carcass hereabouts, or the buzzards wouldn't muster so strong," said the sergeant, riding into the area, where he dismounted, and looked around him in the fading light of day. "As pretty a place for an ambush as a redskin could desire," he presently said; "though to my mind, who am a Christian soldier by trade, such devices are barbarous. Not that a surprise, on scientific principles, to bring on an action, is wrong; but to crouch in the grass like a snake, and to shoot down an unprepared mortal without giving him any chance for life is downright murder." 
               Bluesnake gazed into the sergeant's face, as if striving to discover his meaning; but finding himself at fault,-the old soldier's countenance affording no clue to his words,-he laid one hand on the veteran's arm, and pointed with the other to a minute speck which was barely discernible in the obscurity of the sky. "Does my father see that bird?" he significantly asked, whilst a bright gleam lit up his swarthy face like a flash of lightning on a dark cloud. 
               "I can't say that I do," answered the old soldier, striving to discern the object in question; "my sight is none the best in the world." 
               "It is the buzzard," quickly rejoined the warrior. "The Great Spirit made its eyes good; its wings are like the wind, and it moves like a cloud. It flies in a circle, and approaches its prey slyly after many turns. Indians learn wisdom from the buzzard,-they follow the customs of their fathers." 
               "And a disgusting custom it is," cried the sergeant. "Whoever heard of learning wisdom from a filthy bird?" 
               A practical commentary on the sergeant's question at this moment fearfully startled the soldiers. A strange cry, issuing apparently out of the gloomy hummock before them, rose shrilly in the evening air, hung for an instant tremblingly on the tree-tops, and then suddenly ceased. Obeying a gesture of the guide's, the two crouched in the grass, as the noise again resounded in the woods. 
                
               "That was no cry of beast or bird frequenting these woods,"whispered the sergeant, after a pause in which the rustling of the wind through the long, slender pine leaves was painfully distinct. "I have heard 'em all. It had too much of the human voice in it to be anything but--" 
               What the sergeant thought the noise was will never be known, for at that moment the cry again, arose in prolonged cadences that vibrated through the area, a violent rustling of the grass followed, and, with another joyous neigh, the peddler's pony, still attached to the wagon, galloped toward the startled soldiers. 
               "Lord! Lord! to be deceived by the whinnying of a little Indian pony!" exclaimed the mortified veteran, rising quickly from the grass, and glancing savagely at the innocent cause of his concern. "You infernal beast! what are you doing here making such an unearthly noise? I have a notion to shoot you! No wonder I didn't know what it was. And, d'ye mind, Bolls, I won't have any joking on the subject,-the comp'ny mustn't get hold of it. A soldier's courage, in any situation, like a woman's reputation, is a delicate subject to question. But, hollo! where's Bluesnake?" 
               "He was here a moment ago," said the recruit, looking around him with an astonished expression on his face. 
               "Deserted,-vanished,-gone, by gracious!" The sergeant drew a long breath, and added, "Well, I didn't think it possible!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               BLUESNAKE EXERCISES HIS CRAFT AND UNRAVELS A MYSTERY. 
               ACCUSTOMED to the many strange sounds that puzzle the inexperienced traveler in the woods, Bluesnake had not for a moment been deceived as to the character of the noise which had so suddenly startled the soldiers; but the existence of a horse in that unfrequented spot, implied a mystery to be solved,-a mystery which might concern the safety of himself and party,-so he at once set to work to find out what it was. 
               The noise had barely reached his ear, when he squatted in the grass, as the dipper disappears at the flash of a gun, and unnoticed by the soldiers, who had been taken completely by surprise, he silently slid into the deep shadows of the hummock. There he stripped off such trappings as were likely to impede his movements, laid down his rifle, tightened his belt, and put his knife between his teeth; then lying flat on the ground, he made his way toward the point of suspicion with a silence, rapidity, and dexterity not to be exceeded by his prototype and namesake. 
               The guide soon reached the point opposite to where the bundles of sticks had been left. His quick sight instantly detected them, and he remained for several minutes motionless, whilst all his faculties were concentrated, as it were, in the sense of hearing. In that absorbed state his ears absolutely seemed to prick up like the mule's, and he heard the merest wave of sound that would have been inaudible to an ordinary listener. 
               Satisfied, at length, that no enemy was nigh, he glided swiftly to the spot and examined the signs, all the time glancing warily around, and never for an instant off his guard, or unnecessarily exposing his person. Nothing escaped his keen observation; seeming trifles were full of significance to him. He scrutinized the footprints of the Indians; saw where one had left and returned to the hummock close by, as if taking his departure, and where the other had crept toward the center of the area, evidently with some secret purpose. 
               Following the trail of this one cautiously, it led him to the spot whence the shot had been fired, and finally to the body of the peddler. 
               A grim smile played around Bluesnake's mouth as he bent over the murdered man, and noted with savage criticism the skill with which the scalp had been taken,-the unmistakable handiwork of one of his own people. A single look revealed all that he wished to know: the meeting of the Indians, the "talk," the separation, the ambush, the fatal shot, the death and scalping of the peddler. In a word, so true were the guide's perceptions, that he comprehended the case as thoroughly as if he had been an eye-witness of the transaction; and, satisfied that it was at an end for the present, he rose to his feet and called to the soldiers, who were examining the wagon in the vain hope of eliciting some clue to the mystery. On their approach, he pointed to the body and simply said, "A white man dead here,-killed,-it is bad." 
               "A foul and sinful deed," cried the sergeant, bustling to the spot in his usual dogmatic manner; "a foul and sinful deed, and done, I see, by redskins, as none but savages practice the devilish custom of stripping off a man's hair." 
               "Yes, he is scalped," said the guide, turning away with an air of indifference, and proceeding toward the spot where he had left his gun. The soldiers meanwhile examined the body. 
               "Shot through the heart; he never kicked twice," said the recruit, in a low voice. 
               "A plumb shot," assented the sergeant. 
               "My sakes! it may be our turn next," exclaimed the recruit, with a shiver at the bare thought. 
               "No, no, boy. The redskin who has got that scalp is far away by this time." 
               "But he may come back," said Bolls, looking apprehensively around him. 
               "No danger of that." 
               "I think we had better be getting away from here, at all events." 
               "No danger, I tell you. Indians never stay by a body after taking the scalp. All that is valuable to them is then gone. Animals may tear it, or it may rot on the ground; but the savages will not touch it again. You see, they believe that the spirit of the dead returns to earth and reanimates the body, and they have no desire to come in contact with such a rum customer. The Cherokees carry the notion so far that they will not occupy a lodge in which any one has died." 
               "Because of its being haunted?" 
               "That, or something of the kind; they are queer folk, Indians. I was once traveling with a party of Arrapahoes on the Plains, and coming across a small hollow in which there was plenty of wood, water, and grass,-the only suitable camping ground for miles,-the chief refused to stop there for the night, because, said he, 'There's an old burial-ground here, and the spirits of the dead will come out after dark and whistle.'"
                     The fact.
                  
                
               "What did he mean by that?" 
               "I don't suppose he could have answered the question himself." 
               "I guess this one is past whistling or praying for either," said the recruit, touching the dead man with the butt of his gun. "What had we best do with it?" 
               "Let it alone." 
               "For animals to devour?" said Bolls, with a gesture of repugnance. "At least I would cover it up; a decent respect for our common nature requires that much of us." 
               "As you please, boy. But let's first find out who it is. Put your hand in the pockets, and see what's in 'em. You needn't be afraid,-he won't bite you." 
               Bolls complied, after some hesitation, and drew out a leather wallet, a jack-knife, and a bunch of keys, which he held up for the sergeant's inspection. 
               "That's queer!" exclaimed the latter. "Twasn't for plunder he was killed, anyhow. Show the things to Bluesnake," he added, as the guide rejoined the party. "What say you, my son,-can you tell us how this man came by his death?" 
               "He met Indians here,-they kill him," returned the guide, brushing the dust from the lock of his rifle. 
               "It needs but half an eye to see that; but who were the Indians, and why did they kill him?" 
               Bluesnake put the butt of his rifle on the ground, and, with a grim smile, answered, "I know this man,-his name is Hill." 
               "But the reason of his death?" 
               "Don't you see?" The guide pointed, with curling lip, to the wagon. "Does the white man suppose the Isti-Chatti has no sense?" 
               "A great mistake," said the sergeant, unconscious of his own inconsistency in the reply. 
               "He has sold whisky to the people, and they have killed him." 
               "It is not a war-party, then, that has done the deed?" 
               Bluesnake shook his head. 
               "That alters the case amazingly. Now look at the signs again, and tell me how many redskins have been busy about this body; for, to my mind, there may have been one or a dozen." 
               "Two." The guide held up his hand, the fore and middle finger extended. "Two Indians came here to talk,-this man come along; they kill him,-that one got the scalp;" and he put the butt of his gun in the large moccasin track of Itunwah. 
               "It leads west," said the sergeant, following the trail with his eye until it was lost in the grass. 
               Bluesnake nodded. 
               "Where to?" 
               "Toward the setting sun," he evasively replied. 
               "Suwanee-Old-Town lies that way," thoughtfully observed the old soldier. 
               The Indian affected to be busy about his equipments. 
               "Has he gone there, think you?" 
               "Perhaps." 
               "Speak out, warrior,-remember our compact. I want your judgment in the matter." 
               "He has gone to the town," reluctantly answered the guide. 
               "I shall follow him." 
               "The road is long and bad; my father had better not." 
                
               "It is not beyond the setting sun," laughingly said the sergeant. "I'll trust you to guide us." 
               "The captain will be angry." 
               "No use talking, old fellow,-I'm bound to go. Can you tell me how long this man has been dead?" 
               Bluesnake made no further effort to change the old soldier's declared purpose, but replied,- 
               "Not before the birds woke up." 
               "You mean since daylight this morning?" 
               "Yes." 
               "How do you know?" 
               "The buzzards say so." 
               Sergeant Atkins turned an inquiring look on the speaker. 
               "They have not touched the body." 
               "True as preaching,-I never thought of that." 
               "The man was shot when the dew was on the ground," added the guide, scrutinizing the grass around him. 
               "The scalper, then, is about twelve hours ahead of us. Do you think, with such a start, that we can overtake him before he gains the town?" 
               Bluesnake reflected for a moment, and then answered, "If my father goes all night he may catch him asleep, but he must be very cunning." 
               "As a weasel. All I ask of you is to keep us on the right track; I'll be responsible for the rest." 
               The Indian signified his willingness to undertake the task the sergeant had set him by at once going to work. As already stated, he had previously noticed that one of the trails had not approached the spot where the body lay. He again satisfied himself of this by following it some distance into the hummock. Then retracing his steps, he scrutinized the other trail, going down on his hands and knees, and examining the form, size, stride, and direction of the footprints, firmness of impression, etc., returning to the area, as the soldiers, having just placed the peddler's body in the wagon, were tying down the canvas sides. 
               "It'll keep him from the buzzards," said the sergeant, contemplating the strange tomb; "and now, boys, let's be moving. You can take the pony, Bluesnake,-he seems to want to go with us; and perhaps I was too hard on the poor brute,-it's not his fault that he was left here alone." So the pony was appropriated by the guide, who needed neither saddle nor bridle to ride the docile little creature. 
               It was dark by the time their preparations were made, but the night was clear and the stars shone brightly. Bats, beetles, and huge gallinippers flitted wildly through the area, or hovered over mephitic pools of water, whilst from the hummock came a medley of sounds,-the evening chorus of the woods,-in which the hoot of the owl and the croaking of innumerable frogs formed a sort of running accompaniment. 
               The soldiers were fatigued by the day's travel, but were ready and eager for work; and as for the guide, it was equally a matter of indifference to him whether he bivouacked for the night or went on, having reached that happy state of insensibility to fatigue which only savages and wild animals enjoy. The horses, also, were in good heart, having judiciously passed the time in cropping the rich grass which grew in the area. 
               There was no difficulty in following Itunwah's trail. In neglecting to efface it, he had committed an unpardonable blunder in forest strategy,-a blunder which neither the remoteness of the scene of his crimes from the settlements, nor the solitariness of the spot in which it had been committed, could excuse. The savage, in fact, was overconfident. He had no fear that his deed of blood would be discovered by the white man; and as for one of his own people detecting it and guiding his detested enemy in pursuit of him, the thought never entered his imagination. 
               It must be confessed, however, that Itunwah had some ground for his belief; Bluesnake, perhaps, was the only Indian in the nation who could have been found willing to undertake the task, and Sergeant Atkins certainly was the only white man in Florida who would have had the temerity to prosecute such a foolhardy adventure. 
               To sum up, then, the soldiers had the benefit of a clear night, a broad trail, a thorough guide, reasonably fresh animals, and minds fully made up to overtake the murderer, cost what it might. 
               With these advantages in their favor, and with this resolve, they followed Bluesnake, who had already moved forward, in single, or, as it is otherwise termed, "Indian file." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE TRAIL. 
               CHOOSING the high ground and openings, and avoiding the swampy places and thickets, in which he was admirably seconded by the instinct of the little animal he rode, the guide led the soldiers swiftly onward into the hummock, looking chiefly at the treetops land the small patches of sky he could catch through the interlacing boughs; and only glancing occasionally on the ground, where a broken stick, a crushed bunch of grass, or a careless step marked, in the moonlight, like a written scroll, the trail of Itunwah. 
                
               Sometimes it was not practicable to follow the direct path; it became obscure, or disappeared altogether, as if designedly effaced. In such cases, Bluesnake, making a circuit, would return to the path, always striking it with Wonderful precision, and again leading on at a pace which kept the soldiers continually on the stretch to follow him. The route led directly through the hummock, which here was from fifteen to twenty miles wide, and full of all sorts of frightful impediments. Sink-holes threatening to engulf the party, labyrinths of dense vegetation having no visible outlet, quagmires covered with green scum, and sluggish streams of chocolate-colored water presented themselves in turn, and were passed by the silent and absorbed guide, who, in his specter-like movements, almost seemed to the soldiers to be the genius of the place luring them to destruction. 
               Bluesnake was particularly wary when he encountered a sink-hole. These are funnel-shaped orifices in the ground, either empty or filled with water, and of extraordinary depth,-the breathing-holes, perhaps, of subterranean streams. The coral formation of Florida would seem to favor this hypothesis, and facts corroborate it. On the Atlantic side of the peninsula, off Matanzas, there is a place in the ocean where the water boils up in a great circle, which, on a clear day, can be seen many miles off, by the color and commotion of the surface. It is an outlet, no doubt, of a subterranean stream flowing under the State, or sinking through the soil. 
               Thus the Santa F (vulgarly, Santaffee) sinks in Alachua County, near the Tallahassee road, and rises some two miles off; the Ocilla, the Chipola, and the Econfina sink and rise again; and, during the dry season,-that is, in summer,-several large lakes entirely disappear, their bottoms becoming meadows, upon which numerous cattle graze. In the wet season,-that is, in the fall and spring,-when the sinks cannot draw off the water as fast as it accumulates, these lakes reappear, and are then broad and beautiful sheets of water, frequented by large numbers of wild fowl. 
               "The river Styx drains off the water of Pithlachucco Lake into the Alachua savanna, where it is joined by several other streams, which all fall into a sink, of a semicircular form, about one hundred and twenty yards across, and surrounded by high, rocky banks, from which the orifice can be seen. It is a vast abyss, situated on the north side of the savanna. At the beginning of summer, when the waters are withdrawing, the latter is crowded with alligators and fish. After the water disappears, the grass sprouts up in the savanna to such a height as almost to conceal the heads of cattle which graze over the bottom. During the winter the same valley is a lake fifteen miles long and six wide." Alligator Lake, in Columbia County, a lake some three miles long by two wide, presents the same "phenomena."
                     Williams's Florida.
                  
                
               A correspondent of an English paper thus alludes to sink-holes: "The most dangerous enemies of the soil of Florida are what the inhabitants call 'sinks.' Those absorptions of the earth, though on a small scale, are in fact so numerous that one may almost ask, 'Is Florida slipping between the fingers of both Federals and Confederates, and will she ultimately, like those high mountains of the Andes during the earthquake of Chili in 1646, vanish entirely from the earth?' All over the country I found, when in that sinking State, sinks of all sizes, forms, and ages. Some are slight, saucer-like depressions; others still deeper, like basins, of from twenty to eighty yards across; or only uneven shapes and hollows, which would pass unnoticed were not one informed that the land just there had been sinking since such a time; or that an old inhabitant remembered a dead level where, now, there are various dells crowded with vegetation. 
               "Sometimes-and these are the most remarkable-the sinks are round and even,-like wells, which, indeed, one might suppose them to be, so regular and perpendicular are their, walls. Some of these are formed suddenly, during or after heavy rains, and are the result of one storm. They are sunk perhaps in an hour, in a night, without sign or warning,-in the middle of the road, or, it may be, a cattle-pen. On one plantation I know of several such sinks. One is about thirty feet deep and eight or nine feet across the mouth; another is twenty feet deep and about four feet across the mouth. Sometimes it is not possible to distinguish the real bottom of the sink, for after the soil has been washed down to a certain distance, leaving a smooth, regular hole, jagged rocks are laid bare, and the opening to a subterranean passage, it may be, of vast length and depth, is exposed. Many accidents, as will be imagined, have occurred, from the opening of these sudden cavities, when persons have been traveling on dark nights, and passing, as they supposed, over an even and well-known path. Generally, however, a significant crack in the ground appears as an admonitory warning, and it is not unusual to hear a person saying, in pointing to a certain spot, 'There will be a sink-hole there soon.' Wonderful caves are, by these signs, being frequently discovered, and they abound mostly in Western Florida." 
               But to return to our adventurers. Indications that the party were approaching the pine-barren, into which all the hummocks in Florida sooner or later merge, began to appear at midnight, the undergrowth thinning out, the trees growing farther apart, and the soil gradually changing from rich, dark loam to sand. The last vestiges of the gloomy place disappeared at daylight, the horses instinctively pricking up their ears and accelerating their gait at the prospect of getting into more open ground. When not absorbed in watching the weirdlike movements of the guide, or in keeping his horse from plunging headforemost into some bottomless pit, Sergeant Atkins employed his time in reflecting on what Bluesnake had said in reference to the determination of his people not to leave the country, on what he had seen in the area in corroboration of this, and on what consequently might be the result of the present expedition not only to himself but to Bluesnake. Bolls he considered as part of himself, and as one who would share his fortune in any event. But not so the guide. He was an Indian well known for his adherence to the whites,-itself a crime in the eyes of his people. His additional apostasy in guiding blue jackets to the town in pursuit of one of them would be bitterly resented, and nothing but a cruel death awaited him should he be caught in the act. No one knew this better than Sergeant Atkins, and being really attached to the Indian, he hesitated to involve him in the consequences of an expedition which, in spite of his self-conceit, he felt to be rash and foolhardy in the extreme. Visions, also, of his commanding officer's displeasure, and of a court-martial for disobedience of orders, in going, without authority, into the nation, were present to the old soldier's mind. 
               After duly reflecting on all these points, the sergeant came to the conclusion that on drawing nigh the town, Bluesnake must be kept in the background; that Bolls and himself might venture there without special risk; and as for the displeasure of his commanding officer, he trusted that the information he would be able to obtain of the temper of the savages would soften if not dispel that. 
               The hummock and the sergeant's reflections came together to an end, as the party emerged into the bright light of the open pine-barren, and dismounted for the purpose of resting their jaded animals, and of deciding upon some definite plan of action. 
               Approaching the Indian, who had helped himself to a cracker from the recruit's haversack, and was quietly munching it, the old soldier laid a hand on his shoulder, and softly said, "Look ye, friend. You and me have often bunked together, and always found each other fair and square,-isn't it so, lad?" 
               Bluesnake smiled, and, not interrupting the pleasing task upon which he was engaged, vigorously nodded. 
               "I may have spoken hastily at times, but didn't mean it." 
               The guide shook his head. 
               "I'm glad you feel so. I have been thinking of this business we are on." 
               "Bad!" said the Indian, ceasing to eat. "'Tis no good; my father had better turn back." 
               "Do you really believe so?" asked the sergeant, seemingly in doubt. 
               "I know it!" ejaculated the guide, preparing to mount his pony. "Come, let's go." 
               The old soldier hesitated a moment, and then decisively said, "My mind's made up; I go to the town, cost what it may." 
               Bluesnake quietly commenced eating again. 
               "But I don't want to get you into any trouble with your people; and if there is any danger-" 
               "No danger to me,-danger to you," said the guide, looking up with his mouth full. 
               "I'm ready to meet it in the way of duty," returned the sergeant, with dignity. 
                
               An expression of quiet humor was visible in the Indian's face, as, touching his scalp-lock, he asked, "Is my father ready to lose this?" 
               "Every hair of 't!" sternly rejoined the old soldier. 
               "It's white, but very good to my father." 
               "It's not a girl's hair, nor a boy's, but a man's, and the individual who wants it must run great risks for 't." 
               "My father is a big chief!" gravely said the guide. 
               "I doubt that," returned the old soldier, deprecatingly. "Big is a word hardly applicable to such as me; but I know your meaning, and am obliged. What I want to say to you now is, you mustn't be seen in this matter; it would involve you with your people, and be of no service to us. Do you understand me?" 
               "It shall be as my father says." 
               "You promise to keep in the rear, and to help us, if need be?" 
               Bluesnake gravely bent his head in assent. 
               "That's all, then. And now, Bolls, it behooves you to look sharp, and learn something. You are going among a cunning set of varmints, who will cheat you out of your hair if they can." 
               "They are welcome to all they can get,-I'm not afraid!" stoutly answered the recruit. 
               "That's the right spirit, boy; and remember, whatever happens, don't let 'em scare you. They dare not torture you, but they would like mightily to frighten a soldier." 
               "I guess I'll worry through," said Bolls, adjusting his saddle. "If we are going to get into a scrimmage, though, I would rather have an axe than a musket,-an axe would come more handy." 
               "That's owing to your training, boy; you'll change your mind when you become accustomed to the weapon," returned the sergeant, mounting, and again moving forward. 
                
               The trail still led, in a westerly course, directly to the town. If Bluesnake found but little difficulty in following it through the hummock at night, he had still less trouble in the open pine-barren by day. It was plain to the most inexperienced eye; and, cautioning the soldiers to keep close, and to watch his every movement, as there was no knowing when the game would be flushed, he pushed forward at as rapid a gait as he could venture to force the tired animals. 
               Let us now leave the soldiers eager on the trail, and, claiming the privilege of the story-teller, take a telegraphic stride to the side of the hunted Itunwah, who is stretched in slumber before his camp-fire, sleeping as soundly as if his hands had not just been stained with a white man's blood. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A SAVAGE IN CAMP. 
               ITUNWAH'S destination, as we have seen, was Suwanee-Old-Town, where he had promised to meet Oseola at the green-corn dance. Traveling moderately throughout the day, he arrived by sundown at a small belt of thicket which crossed his path, and indicated the presence of water. The settlers call such places "tight-eyes." Here he paused, and made preparations for camping during the night. 
               His first precaution-an Indian's invariable rule-was to reconnoiter the ground in the immediate neighborhood of his proposed stopping-place, with the view of ascertaining if any living thing was near or had lately passed that way. 
                
               The footsteps of animals, the direction they had come or gone, the gait at which they had moved,-whether in a walk, as in the act of feeding, or in a run, as when frightened,-were all significant signs to the savage in choosing his camp. Nor was this all: the configuration of the ground, productions of the soil, the way the thicket tended, the growth of the bushes, the bark of the trees, the aspect of the sky, and numerous other natural features, were each glanced at in turn; and it was not until he was satisfied with his surroundings, and felt assured of their being safe, that he made up his mind to remain there for the night. 
               This determined upon, Itunwah took off his trappings and laid them at the foot of a tree, retaining, however, his knife and gun, and looking carefully to the priming of the latter. 
               He then selected a secluded nook in the thicket, and, clearing away the brush, made it into a sort of arbor to protect himself from the dews when asleep. The savage next gathered an armful of wood, cut some shavings from a pitch-pine log, rolled up several wisps of dry grass, and, having previously prepared a spot for the purpose, struck a spark by the aid of the flint of his gun, and made a small fire,-so small that should any one chance to see the smoke, he might imagine it the mist rising from the water, or, at most, a fire which had accidentally caught and was smouldering in the thicket. 
               And let it be here observed, the Indian makes a fire, as he does everything else, in utter contempt of the white man's rules. Being fastidious in the matter, he wants something that will not smoke in his face, that cannot be seen from afar, and is quickly extinguished, that will admit of the greatest number of persons huddling around it, and at the same time will economize fuel; so he arranges the sticks in a circle, radiating from a common center like the spokes of a wheel, leaving a small opening into which to introduce the fire and kindling material. The sticks are shoved in as they are consumed. 
               Itunwah now thought of eating. A Seminole Indian never goes on a distant tramp without having in his pouch a trifle of food to satisfy the immediate cravings of appetite,-a piece of dried venison, a little parched corn, or a sweet potato. But he rarely touches this small store, unless compelled to do so by extreme hunger, preferring to draw in his belt and fast, rather than use what may be necessary to enable him to accomplish a set purpose. 
               However, he is seldom compelled to abstain from food in Florida, the woods in that State abounding with game, the rivers, lakes, ponds, and lagoons teeming with fish, turtle, oysters, etc., the hummocks producing fruits and nutritious roots, and even the pine-barrens yielding abundantly to all who know how to lay them under contribution. 
               Itunwah had noticed in his reconnoissance of the ground on the edge of the thicket a gopher asleep at the mouth of its hole, after the habit of that stupid animal. Taking possession of the unresisting prey, he carried it to the stream and killed it, preparatory to cooking. He then took it to the fire, and set it on end in the ashes. 
               It was dark by the time all his preparations Were completed, and, tired by the day's work, the savage seated himself in camp, and drawing forth the peddler's scalp, smoothed the hair, which was turned slightly gray, and stretched it with cross sticks, smiling hideously as he did so. It was his prize, the token of his prowess, the evidence of his revenge, the passport whereby he hoped to regain his forfeited position as a warrior. For who of all in the nation had stricken a white man? who would now laugh at him, or call him a drunken dog? "Ho!" he exclaimed, toying with his horrid trophy, "Itunwah will go back and become a chief! The old men will listen, and the women will be silent, when he speaks!" And, in the exultation of the moment, he laughed aloud, and proceeded to indulge in a triumphant smoke. 
               Whilst thus engaged, absorbed in the pleasures of his pipe, and, to all appearances, off his guard, the savage nevertheless was keenly alive to the slightest sounds around him. There are certain noises of the wood which, once heard, cannot be mistaken. The hoot of an owl, the scream of an eagle, the bellowing of an alligator, the bark of a fox, the cry of a panther, the howling of a pack of wolves in pursuit of a deer, the croaking of frogs, the creaking of a bough, or the falling of a tree in the deep recesses of the forest, are of this character; but there are other interruptions of the silence that cannot so easily be accounted for. 
               The Indian believes that these noises are made by the spirits of the departed, who are sometimes friendly, but oftener malignant and troublesome,-whose wiles must be guarded against by incantations and charms. A single example to illustrate the first of these superstitions. 
               Coa-Coochee, the Wild Cat, son of Philip, a distinguished chief of the Seminoles, thus speaks of himself: 
               "In going from Florida I leave behind me the spirits of the Seminoles, with which I have had many interviews. Their spirits have taken care of me all my life, and the spirit of my twin sister I leave behind. She died many years ago. When I am laid in the earth I shall go and live with her. She died suddenly. I was out on a bear-hunt, and, when seated by my camp-fire alone, I heard a strange noise; it was something like a voice, which told me to go to her. The camp was at some distance, but I took my rifle and started. The night was dark and gloomy; the wolves howled around me as I went from hummock to hummock; sounds came often to my ear,-I thought she was speaking to me. At daylight I reached her camp,-she was dead. When hunting some time after with my brother Otulke, I sat alone beside a large oak. In the moss hanging over me I heard strange sounds; I tried to sleep, but could not. I felt myself moving, and thought I went far above to a new country, where all was bright and happy. I saw clear water-ponds, rivers, and prairies, on which the sun never sets. All was green, the grass grew high, and the deer stood in the midst of it, looking at me. I then saw a small, white cloud approaching, and, when just before me, out of it came my twin sister, dressed in white, and covered with bright silver ornaments. Her long, black hair, which I had often braided, hung down her back. She clasped me around the neck, and said, 'Coa-Coochee! Coa-Coochee!' I shook with fear. I knew her voice, but could not speak. With one hand she gave me a string of white beads; in the other she held a cup sparkling with pure water, which, she said, came from the spring of the Great Spirit, and, if I would drink of it, I would return and live with her forever. As I drank, she sang the peace-song of the Seminoles, and danced around me. She had silver bells on her feet, which made a loud noise. Taking from her bosom something, I do not know what, she laid it before me, when a bright blaze streamed far above me. She then took me by the hand, and said, 'All is peace here!' I wanted to ask for others, but she shook her head, waved her hand, stepped into the cloud, and was gone. The fire she had made had gone out,-all was silent. I was sorry that I could not have said more to her. I felt myself sinking until I came to the earth, when I met my brother Otulke. He had been seeking me, and was alarmed at my absence, having found my rifle where he had last seen me asleep. I told him where I had been, and showed him the beads. These beads were stolen from me when in prison at St. Augustine. At certain periods of the moon, when I had these beads, I could see the spirit of my sister. I may be buried in the earth or sunk in the water, but I shall go to her, and live with her. Game is abundant there, and there the white man is never seen."
                     Sprague's Florida War.
                  
                
               The belief, however, in the supernatural character of certain noises of the woods is not confined to the Indian. In the dense forests of North America, along the St. John's River, the native French population will tell you of the "Lunkasou, or Indian devil," that makes a hideous noise, and carries off unwary travelers; and a recent writer thus alludes to certain mysterious noises in the Brazilian forests: "The silence and gloom are realities, and the impression deepens on a longer acquaintance. The few sounds of birds are of that pensive and mysterious character which intensifies the feelings of solitude rather than imparts a sense of life and cheerfulness. Sometimes, in the midst of stillness, a sudden yell or scream will startle me; this comes from some defenseless fruit-eating animal which is pounced upon by a tiger-cat or stealthy boa-constrictor. Morning and evening the howling monkeys make a most fearful and harrowing noise, under which it is difficult to keep one's buoyancy of spirit. The feeling of inhospitable wilderness which the forest is calculated to inspire is increased tenfold under this fearful uproar. Often, even in the still hours of mid-day, a sudden crash will be heard resounding afar through the wilderness, as some great bough or tree falls to the ground. There are, besides, many sounds which it is impossible to account for. I found the natives generally as much at a loss in this respect as myself. Sometimes a sound is heard like the clang of an iron bar against a hollow tree, or a piercing cry rends the air; these are not repeated, and the succeeding silence tends to heighten the unpleasant impression which they make on the mind. With the natives it is always the Cumpira, the Wild Man, or Spirit of the Forest, which produces all the noises they are unable to explain." 
               Strange sounds are often heard by the Swedish hunters. "The Skrogs-elf announces her approach by a peculiar, sharp, rushing whirlwind, that shakes the trunks of the trees so that they seem ready to snap asunder. If the hunter spits and strikes fire, there is no danger; but if he fails to take such precautions, let him beware. The Skrogs-elf is further described as a female spirit of the woods, of friendly demeanor, but with claws instead of nails. An eye-witness relates that once, when out grouse-shooting, having just kindled a fire, and while taking a repast, the Skrogs-elf appeared and kindly greeted him. To his invitation to warm herself she responded by a friendly nod. He then offered her a share of his fare, holding it, however, at the end of his axe, as he felt somewhat diffident at the sight of her talons; but she declined his offer, smiled, and vanished. He now shot five grouse." 
               The Skrogs-elf seems to be the same as Massebe, the Spirit Hunter of the Indians, who lives among the mountains and rocks, and is always on the lookout, sometimes under one appearance, sometimes under another. "It is he whom the hunters invoke, and to whom they offer the tobacco, sugar, etc., which is found in the clefts of rocks and of isolated boulders of the prairie." 
               As Itunwah sat watching the smoke from his pipe slowly curling upward, a moaning sound, like the surf upon the seashore, rose in the distant forest, and came rapidly toward him, gathering strength as it approached, till, like the rushing of innumerable wings, it swept the treetops overhead, but did not stir a leaf where he cowered, and died away as it began, in the far-off solitudes of the wilderness. 
               The savage started up as the noise swept past, and, drawing forth a buckskin bag hung to his neck, he began to pace in measured steps around his camp fire, shaking the bag and singing in a low voice. He continued this mummery for awhile, his voice gradually increasing in volume, and his gestures becoming more and more violent and threatening. Now he stamps on the ground and bellows like a bull, then neighs like a horse; at times he grins savagely at something that is making strenuous efforts to get into his camp,-efforts which he vigorously opposes, darting here and there with an agility which is ludicrous in the absence of any visible cause. Finally this something, whatever it may be, becomes angry, and fiercely attacks him; but this is the very thing he has been anxious for all the while. He can better fight than baffle such an insidious foe, and a furious combat ensues, the strangest part of it being that Itunwah really seems to be fighting with an invisible power, which gives and receives some ponderous blows,-blows which stagger him at times,-nay, he is knocked down once, and barely "comes to time." 
               If the savage is acting, he performs his part to perfection; the perspiration starts from his swarthy skin, and every muscle of his body is strained. But he is not acting, whatever else his strange proceedings may be. At length the unseen influence, no doubt finding that it cannot induce the Indian to leave his magic circle, abandons the contest and retreats into the thicket, followed by the victor, who hurls after it several burning brands. A low moan comes back, or is it the wind sighing through the bushes? 
               Exhausted by the violence of his pantomime, Itunwah seats himself by the fire, and wipes the perspiration from his brow. The camp is safe, his medicine has worked to a charm, no evil spirit can enter it now. Surely no evil spirit could be of more sinister aspect than the savage himself, as, crouching low, he rends his prey by the light of the fire. 
               His meal over, Itunwah replenishes the stock of fuel, loosens his belt, so as to have his knife in its sheath conveniently at hand, lays his rifle by his side, and, stretching himself on the ground, with a root for a pillow, is soon buried in profound slumber. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               SERGEANT ATKINS TAKES A COLD BATH. 
               THE stars were fading in the sky,-night was giving way to day. The wilderness was profoundly still, the sighing of the wind through the treetops, the occasional snapping of a dead limb, or the distant cry of some night-loving beast or bird, being the only sounds audible. They were familiar sounds to Itunwah, and fell unheeded on his ear. He had slept several hours, and daylight was at hand, when suddenly he started to his knees, grasped his gun, and, crouching low, listened like the wild boar disturbed in its lair. He remained thus for several minutes, attention depicted in every line of his ugly face, his body prepared for a spring. 
               Satisfied at length that the noise which he had heard was not made by an animal,-by the same instinctive process, perhaps, by which the animal detects the approach of man, independently, one would think, of the senses,- he arose and tightened his belt; then, throwing his accoutrements over his arm, he grasped his rifle and glided from the thicket with a self-congratulating grunt. 
               He had scarcely departed, when a spectator at the deserted camp, looking south in the prolongation of the "tight-eye," just where a clump of scrub palmetto grew on the margin of the water, might have seen a slight agitation of the leaves, as if they were shaken by the wind, and at the same time heard a faint rustling of the grass, as if a small animal was stealthily creeping through it,-so stealthily that the nicest ear alone could have detected the noise. Presently, just in the center of the clump, where the fanlike leaves were thickest, and the undergrowth and grass most matted together, appeared the flashing eyes of an Indian. But it was for an instant only, and then the guide, nude, and painted a grass-green color to the waist, arose from the clump, with a smile on his handsome face, in which might be detected a slight shade of mortification at being foiled in what he justly considered he excelled. 
               "Indian sleeps, like the fox, with one eye open, but I will catch him yet." And, with this compliment to his antagonist's watchfulness, and tribute to his own wounded vanity, he hastened to rejoin the soldiers, whom he had left in the thicket when he had undertaken to surprise Itunwah, and simply said, "He's gone; no use to follow." 
               "Which way did he go?" eagerly asked the sergeant. 
               Bluesnake pointed toward the deserted camp. 
               "But the way?" 
               He waved his hand in the direction the savage had fled. 
               "You do not answer me; do you mean the town?" 
               He nodded. 
               "Is't far from here?" 
                
               "Not very." 
               The old soldier sprang into his saddle, the others followed suit, and, in less time than we have taken to write it, the three were galloping past the deserted camp in the broad trail of the fugitive. 
               The gait at which they were going soon took them to a part of the pine-barren cut up by numerous well-worn paths, all converging to the ford heretofore described, by which Suwanee-Old-Town was approached on that side of the river. Fortunately the distance was short, or the horses could not have stood it, the travel through the hummock, as well as the deep sand of the pine-barren, having told fearfully on their strength. As it was, Bluesnake's pony began to show unmistakable signs of flagging, evincing a strong desire to walk, tripping and stumbling at every step, and being forced into a gallop only by the continued application of his heels. 
               Calling a halt as the party came in sight of the bushes through which the trail ran to the ford, the guide pointed to them, and quickly said, "Beyond the bushes is the river, and beyond the river lies the town; my father has gone far enough, he is running into a trap, he had better turn back." 
               "Not if the nation was howling in front of me," answered the rash soldier, drawing rein only to answer. "I'll have that murderer, or know the reason why. Wait for us here, and if we don't return by sundown, make up your mind that we are prisoners, and report the matter at the fort. Good-by, old fellow-come, Bolls." 
               Without more words, and reckless of consequences, the veteran again urged his horse into a gallop, followed by the devoted recruit. Bluesnake slid from his horse and got behind a tree, the better to watch his rash friend. He did not have to wait. The two had gone but a few rods from him when a rifle-shot rang out, the war-whoop followed, and the form of the hunted savage was seen a short distance in advance, bounding with tremendous leaps toward the entrance into the bushes. Pausing for an instant, as he gained this point, Itunwah shook his clinched fist at his enemies, uttered another shrill whoop, and disappeared. 
               "Ambushed, by the Lord!" cried the sergeant, as his mortally-wounded horse went down under him; "the infernal imp!" Then, recovering his feet, he drew up his musket and fired at the form of the fleeing savage, as it revealed itself among the bushes, but, finding the shot ineffectual, he called to Bolls to follow, and dashed gallantly in pursuit. 
               And now began an animated race. The old soldier's horse had been killed under him about half a mile from the point where the trail entered the bushes; thence to the water's edge it ran a like distance through swampy soil, and the hard task before him was to overtake the savage before he could reach the landing and had availed himself of a canoe, several of which, as elsewhere stated, were always to be found tied there. Of course the sergeant knew nothing of this intervening space, or of the obstacles he would have to encounter in passing over it. But he was too much bent upon capturing the enemy ere he could reach the town, to have now paused, even had he been aware of the difficulties to be overcome. Although somewhat advanced in years, he was by no means a despicable antagonist in foot-racing,-an amusement in which he had often indulged with his favorites, the "Sacs and Foxes," and which, taken in connection with his gray beard and peculiar springy step, had gained him, among that primitive people, the name of "Jumping Squirrel." And well he maintained his old reputation. Bringing his heavy musket to a trail, and falling into a lope,-a telling gait in the long run,-he dashed after the retreating Indian with a speed which soon brought him to the bushes. Without pausing here to consider the rashness of his course, or to heed the yells which were now distinctly audible from the town, he bounded over the intervening space with undiminished speed, and came in view, at the same moment, of Suwanee River, glancing like burnished silver in the bright sunlight, the opposite bank crowded with wondering savages, and Itunwah in the act of loosening a canoe at the ford. 
               At this last sight the sergeant stretched every muscle to overtake the fugitive before he could accomplish his purpose, but in vain,-he had entered the canoe and was paddling off as his pursuer gained the bank almost in time to grasp the stern of the little vessel as it glided away from his hand. 
               "Stay, you red devil!" panted the veteran; in an ecstasy of rage. 
               "Ho! ho! Graybeard! come across, and see Itunwah," cried the savage, with exulting irony, and, having reached what he considered a safe distance from the baffled soldier, he threw down the paddle and commenced loading his rifle, allowing his canoe, meanwhile, to float with the current. 
               This was near proving fatal to the Indian, for, so absorbed was he in loading, that he did not see the recruit coming to his superior's assistance till he was almost at the latter's side with his musket raised, ready to fire as he ran. At this sight Itunwah dropped his rifle and resumed the paddle, sweeping the water with rapid strokes, and closely watching his antagonists as he did so. 
               "Hold on, boy!" cried the sergeant; "would you shoot him in sight of his people? it would cost you your life! Here, jump in." 
                
               In less time than we have taken to write it, the soldiers were in another canoe, and paddling after the fugitive. Now, we have said that the Suwanee River here widened into a lakelike sheet of water. Alternate expansion and contraction is a common feature of Florida streams, which for the most part have their sources in some great swamp, and flow through a level country. 
               Meanwhile, as it became known that blue-jackets were in hot pursuit of one of their own people on the river, the hummock, the lodges, and the plain poured forth their dusky occupants in eager groups, whose cries and other manifestations of displeasure at the sight only served to stimulate the imprudent veteran to other and more desperate efforts to overtake the savage before he could gain a refuge among his friends. 
               "Gently, softly, my son," he whispered, through his clinched teeth; "don't dip your paddle too deep, or lean too far over the skiff's side, but keep your body straight, and let it give to the movement-so; I see you understand it; we'll catch the scamp, yet,-the foolish fellow has lost a good fifty yards by his malignity." He said nothing more, but bent the whole force of his muscular arms to the task of capturing the Indian. Bolls ably seconded his superior, his training as a lumberman having made him an expert in the handling of a canoe, and under their united efforts the little "dug-out" fairly darted along the surface of the water. 
               Itunwah, on his part, plied his paddle with more skill, but with less force, than the soldiers. In stopping to load his rifle, and thereby allowing his canoe to float with the current, he had lost the advantages he had possessed in the beginning, and, at the instant he resumed work, he was as far from the opposite landing in a diagonal line as the soldiers were in the direct one. 
                
               This may be understood by imagining an acute angle, the apex of which is the landing, and the two sides the routes respectively of Itunwah and the soldiers. 
               The savage perceived the error into which he had fallen, and now sought to retrieve it. His object was twofold: to preserve his distance, and to prevent the soldiers from cutting him off from the landing. With all his skill, however, he could not keep the canoes from gradually coming together, as they respectively advanced, unless he made for a very steep and precipitous part of the bluff, where he would be sure to be overtaken; and, as he realized this fact, glancing now at the soldiers and then at the point of destination, he redoubled efforts which already were extraordinary. 
               The paddles are rapidly plied; they flash like small mirrors in the sun; the strokes of the contestants send long lines of curling eddies behind; the water flies in feathery flakes from the bows; the speed of the canoes seems about equal; it is doubtful which party will win the race. 
               The whoops that greeted the first appearance of the soldiers had subsided into silence, as the inhabitants of the town crowded to the water's edge to watch the chase before them. The entire population had assembled by this time,-warriors, squaws, and children, all eager spectators of the struggle,-so eager as to have ceased to gesticulate, or to utter the usual cries. 
               But this does not last long. The chase gains. They foam along converging lines, they approach each other, and a yell from the shore is echoed shrilly back from the forest as the soldiers' canoe shoots ahead and interposes between Itunwah and the landing. 
               "Give up, Indian, you might as well give up!" panted the veteran, pausing from his desperate exertions, and grasping his musket. 
                
               "Ho! heh! the blue-jackets are squaws!" retorted the savage, throwing down his paddle, and drawing his knife with ferocious energy. "Come on; Itunwah has the scalp of a dog,-go, look for his body in the woods!" 
               "Then take the consequence of the deed!" returned the angry soldier, rising in the canoe, and clubbing his musket the better to enforce the threat. 
               The act was unfortunate; the sergeant too late saw the folly of his course, and struggled desperately to steady himself, but could not. The frail skiff, unable to bear such a movement, rocked for a moment, plunged violently, and then shied completely over. A whoop from the shore, mingled with the derisive yell of Itunwah, pealed like a chorus of fiends in the ears of the soldiers, as they were precipitated into the rushing water. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               ECHO-WILLA. 
               FOLLOWING one of the numerous cross-paths which led from the council-house, Oseola bent his steps toward a lodge in a remote part of the town. It was a crazy edifice, that looked as if it were about to tumble down, and was only prevented by an obstinately-bending ridge-pole. Numerous rents in the palmetto thatching admitted free access to wind and rain, and to prying eyes, a view inside. 
               Without, the scene was repulsive enough. The offal, usually scattered about an Indian town, was here collected in heaps which dwindled almost as rapidly as they accumulated mulated, under the active operations of a promiscuous crowd of dogs, buzzards, and crows, so tame as scarcely to get out of your way; whilst through the neighborhood wandered forlorn-looking, sore-backed ponies, in vain quest of more palatable food than the sharp-pointed palmetto, or bitter pine-leaf. 
               This was the Alsatia of the town, the quarter where the poor of the nation lived,-those whom fire-drink had debased, or who from any other cause had forfeited their standing with their brother savages. There are pariahs among Indians as well as among white men, the only difference between them being that there are a greater variety of outcasts with the latter than with the former. 
               Several pappooses, in a state of nudity, were playing before the entrance of the lodge, the tattered remains of an old blanket, beneath which the urchins crawled in and out, serving as the substitute for a door. Pausing here to notice a shaggy-haired, black-eyed boy, who had ceased pelting an old tame crow with his bow and arrows, to stare at the intruder, Oseola raised the blanket and stood before the inmate of the lodge,-a woman in the maturity of her age. A mass of raven hair fell upon her shoulders and down her back, in the expressive style of Indian mourning. Her face was comely enough, the teeth brilliant, the eyes lustrous, the complexion clear, but the expression of the whole was sullen and defiant. The upper part of her body was naked, the rest scantily clad; her feet were bare. And this was Echo-willa, the Bright-eyed. 
               Alas! a few years before had seen her the happy squaw of a promising young brave, of whom great things had been predicted by the medicine-men. He would become a chief, his words would be full of wisdom, and he would lead the nation in the paths of glory. But how had these predictions been verified? The woman's appearance, and what the reader already knows of Itunwah, answer the question significantly enough. 
               Echo-willa, who was sitting on the ground mending an old garment, arose on the chief's entrance, and, without a word of greeting, spread a blanket for him to sit down upon. He did so, and she stood before him with folded arms and downcast eyes, awaiting his commands. 
               He had come on a strange mission for him,-to unbend the stern stoicism of his character, and to offer some consolation to the unhappy woman, as well as to effect a reconciliation between her and her vagrant husband. 
               He recollected an episode of his youth, when Itunwah and himself were rivals for the favor of the pretty Echo-willa. It was a mere remembrance, but the chief could not help pitying the squaw whom he had formerly loved; and he now came to lift her out of the abyss into which she had sunk. 
               The woman had not forgotten the chief. The contrast between what she was, and what she might have been, was rarely absent from her thoughts. His presence now brought the difference, still more vividly before her. Her dream, however, was long since over, and she stood before him with a subdued air that appealed strongly to his compassion. 
               Drawing forth his pipe,-the Indian's never-failing resource,-Oseola lighted it and proceeded to smoke, puffing vigorously for several minutes by way of aiding thought and utterance. He was puzzled what to say to his companion, and how to say it,-a quandary that did not often happen to him. 
               Presently it occurred to him that the squaw saw his embarrassment. The bare thought caused his scalp-lock to curl with indignation, for he was not accustomed to show such exhibitions of weakness; and puffing out, in consequence quence of the reflection, a vast volume of smoke, mingled with sundry unintelligible gutturals, he spoke,- 
               "Itunwah,-your husband,-is he come?" 
               It is strange that Oseola, himself no mean reader of the human heart, and gifted with a smooth tongue withal, should have asked such a question to begin with. The eyes of the woman literally flashed like a wild-cat's as she replied through her shut teeth, "Husband! Echo-willa has no husband!" 
               "My sister is mistaken," said the chief, pointing to a child in a corner of the lodge contentedly sprawling on its back with its feet in the air. "She knows the father of that little one." 
               For an instant she was a mother, and smiled sweetly on the child, as, emboldened by the unusual notice, it made awkward efforts to crawl to her side; but the father's face was there,-his very smile,-and she repulsed its innocent advances with a fierce "Sta!" that sent the little creature cowering to the corner. 
               Even whilst committing the unmotherly act, the eyes of the woman sank beneath the reproving glance of the visitor, and she threw herself on the ground and hid her face in her hair in sullen silence. 
               The action was more eloquent than words, and, savage as he was, Oseola's heart was touched. Unusual emotions twisted his grim features into an expression which it would be hard to define, as, knocking the ashes from his pipe, he arose and addressed the woman in soothing words that fell like balm on her crushed heart, and opened the choked fountain of her tears. He told her, "The Great Spirit saw her trouble, and was sorry; that darkness now surrounded her, but it would soon go away into the holes of the sky and be day,-Itunwah would come back." 
               "Where is Itunwah?" at length demanded the woman, sweeping the long hair from her face, and gazing at the chief. 
               "Coming soon." 
               "Where has he been?" 
               "In the settlements." 
               "What has he been doing in the settlements?" 
               "Buying powder." 
               The woman shook her head; the response evidently did not satisfy her. "A warrior does not live in the settlements," she presently said. 
               Oseola made no reply to this very obvious remark, and neither spoke for awhile; she then repeated her question,- 
               "What has Itunwah been doing in the settlements?" 
               "Serving the white man," reluctantly answered the chief. 
               "I thought so!" scornfully exclaimed Echo-willa. "A fitting occupation for a warrior! But why does he come back? Is he not satisfied with being a slave?" 
               "He comes to see his people," said the chief, for the first time realizing that he had a more difficult task before him than he had anticipated. 
               "Well, let him come; who cares?" 
               "He wants to see his squaw." 
               The woman remained silent. 
               "He is sorry." 
               "For what?" 
               "For leaving Echo-willa." The chief pointed to the child, and added, "He longs to see the pickaninny." 
               "He can have the pickaninny." 
               "It is little," said the chief, rising and taking up the child, which, though terribly frightened, savage-like, uttered no cry. The woman looked sternly at her offspring in the Indian's arms. 
               "See, it is hungry," the latter added, holding the child toward her; but she turned coldly away. 
                
               "Even the wolf cares for its young," said Oseola, angrily, putting the child down. "I go." 
               "Stay!" exclaimed the woman, laying her hand on the other's arm, and thus detaining him. "My brother must not leave me till he knows all. Echo-willa is not less grateful because she does not talk. She can't talk; it makes her too full, and runs out at her eyes." She passed her hand wearily over her face, and continued, "Itunwah abandoned me for the white man, and I forgave him; he deserted the lodge, and I longed for his return; but he drank fire-water, and beat the little ones, and my heart hardened within me." 
               "It is bad," muttered the chief. 
               "Yet my brother asks me why I see things darkly. Can I behold them, in the light? No, the owl, accustomed to the dark, sees only in the dark." 
               "But, the little ones?" 
               The woman resumed: "I love my native woods, the air, the trees, the flowers. I love this lodge, miserable as it is; but I do not love the little ones,-that one in particular, so like its father,-and I hate the drunken dog of the pale-faces." 
               "Do you hate your children?" 
               The woman slowly shook her head. 
               "Then you love them, for if you do not love them you hate them. What does Echo-willa mean by talking so? But my sister is mistaken. She has lived so long by herself, and looked so much at her troubles, that she cannot now see straight. The young men shall build her another lodge, and then go hunt for her. Her brother asks but one thing in return,-she must be kind to the little ones." 
               "I have always given them to eat," said the woman, subdued by the chief's manner more than by his words. 
                
               Without replying to this partial acknowledgment of her duties as a mother, Oseola gravely raised the blanket and took his departure, not, however, before he had seen Echo-willa take up and caress her child. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE WAR-DANCE. 
               THE scene of our story now lies in a grove of live-oaks and cypress, situated within the hummock which bounded Suwanee-Old-Town on the west. It was a gloomy and retired spot, dedicated to the evil spirit, and sacred from intrusion except on occasions like that we are about to record, when the nation, having declared war, proceeded to consecrate the declaration by a solemn war-dance. The grove, in former years, had been the scene of these dances, when warriors came from all parts of the country to participate in them, when the nation was in its pristine strength and dictated terms of peace to neighboring tribes,-when, in fact, war, alternating with the chase, was the only pastime of the people. 
               But, as the warlike spirit of the nation departed, ancient customs fell into disuse, the war-dance, the most honored of them all, gradually ceasing to be observed, the place of observance being given up to the medicine-men, who, interested in keeping up its mysterious character, taught the people to believe that none but themselves could enter it with impunity. 
               An incident favored their scheme. Tradition tells the story of a noted Seminole chief, who, after living in the settlements, had returned to his people in the garb, and speaking the language, of the pale-face. Puffed up with conceit, he railed against the medicine-men, denouncing them as impostors who deceived the people for their own selfish purposes. As was to be expected, the medicine-men were enraged, the chief's friends grieved, and the nation scandalized. Persisting in his defiant course, however, he announced his determination to brave the evil spirit of the grove by passing a night in it. Such reckless audacity met with signal punishment, as had been predicted. His body was found, next day with two deep wounds in the side, from which the life-blood had welled, and near by lay a large buck, which, doubtless, the chief had slain in mortal combat, for his knife was sticking in the side of the animal. The occurrence was eagerly seized upon by the medicine-men,-it was an opportunity which seldom happened; they pronounced it the work of the evil spirit, who, justly incensed, had possessed the body of the buck to punish this invasion of its domain. 
               The Delphic oracle was not more implicitly believed; the influence of the medicine-men increased, and no one afterward was found bold enough to enter the place without permission. The Timpana or Medicine Lodge stood in the center of the grove. In it were stored the records and secret treasures of the nation, the common stock of powder in skins, spare arms, and weapons of all kinds, wampum-belts and calumets, symbolical of treaties with neighboring tribes, ornaments of the Peace, the Green-Corn, and the War dances, and rude figures and designs commemorating remarkable events, such as a decisive victory, an unusual game season, etc. Here, also, were concealed the implements used by the conjurers in their various ceremonies of charming the war-trail, making it rain, or driving the evil spirit from the sick man. 
                
               The lodge was of square form, ornamented at the corners with rough wooden figures of warriors, which, in a menacing attitude, seemed to motion the intruder back. The body of the structure consisted of unhewn logs, closely fitted and dovetailed at the ends; a small square door in one of the sides, some distance above the ground, being the only mode of entrance to it. Spanish moss filled every crack and cranny, so that when the door was shut it must have been pitch-dark, and, when open, only partially light, inside. The doorway was barely large enough to admit a man in a stooping posture, and the door itself consisted of massive slabs, roughly put together and secured by grape-vines ingeniously fastened to pegs in the logs. It was no easy matter to undo these fastenings, and the interloper ran great risk of discovery in attempting it. 
               The roof rose in four planes to a peak, surmounted by a pole, from the top of which dangled several gourds, filled with pebbles or dry beans, which rattled, as ever and anon they were shaken by the wind. An open space of about an acre in extent surrounded the lodge. Beyond this was the belt of live-oaks and cypress before referred to, and farther off rose the wall-like vegetation of the hummock, dense and matted together overhead, and impassable, from the swampy nature of the soil underfoot, save where secret trails, known only to the initiated, ran through it. Rude emblems were carved on the trees, but these were time-worn and almost obliterated by the growing bark. The whole place had the venerable appearance and solitary air peculiar to the grand old forests of the New World. 
               We are describing a real thing. All the Southern tribes had their medicine-lodges, which were used for both religious and secular purposes. 
               "One of Powhatan's places of residence for the summer was called Aropakes. A mile from the little village which here surrounded his dwelling, in a thicket of woods, was another house, more statelily built, constructed, and fortified, in which were kept treasures of all sorts. There were the skins, metal, and beads which he had received as tribute. There also was his store of red paint for ointment, his bows and arrows, targets, and clubs. This house was fifty yards in height,
                     The author must mean fifty feet in height.
                   and none but priests were permitted to enter it, probably that the people might be led to regard it as a sacred place. At the four corners were set up four rudely-graven images of wood,-one representing a sort of dragon, another a bear, the third a leopard, and the fourth a likeness of a warrior." 
               The same author remarks, "The ancient Mohicans had an idol, set up in every town, regarded as sacred, and left in a house erected and taken care of by the priests for the purpose. 
               "This represented, not the Supreme Being, in whom, however, all the tribes believed, but usually the Evil One, whose favor they thought it more necessary to propitiate by adoration and sacrifices, on account of his supposed malignity. In other cases it was considered simply guardian or titular spirit of the tribe or town. These buildings were commonly, by the priests, kept closed and barred up very strongly, to prevent the intrusion of the whites, as well as the generality of the Indians themselves."
                     Indian Traits. By B. B. Thatcher.
                  
                
               The afternoon of the day commemorated by the capture of the soldiers was devoted by the inhabitants of Suwanee-Old-Town to preparations for the war-dance. 
               All thoughts of the green-corn festival of course were merged in the more important ceremony at hand. The dance was to take place in the grove, at midnight, that being the proper hour to inaugurate it, and, as prisoners had been taken, it would be celebrated with unusual pomp and circumstance. Whilst all was, therefore, bustle in the town, the Prophet and his medicine-men, accompanied by a number of youths of sufficient years to entitle them to be present, but not to participate in the dance, went to put the grove in order by cutting down the bushes, clearing away the rubbish, marking the ring, and planting the war-pole. This was a peeled sapling, six inches in diameter, hewn flat on two sides, and notched at the edges like the teeth of a saw; each notch being painted alternately red or black. The painting did not extend higher than one could reach with the point of a knife, and above it hung, in ghastly array, such trophies as a savage imagination would delight in,-the peddler's scalp, necklaces made of the finger-joints of slain enemies, stuffed skins of birds and reptiles, and other repulsive and disgusting objects. 
               The warriors, in the mean time, prepare for the dance. Those who have accoutred themselves for the green-corn festival, now throw aside their trappings, and assume more appropriate dresses and decorations. 
               Most of these were extremely grotesque. Here, for example, struts a brave who claims descent, in a direct line, from the Flamingo. His pretensions are set forth by a profuse array of scarlet feathers, which stick out from all parts of his black pate like porcupine quills. His face and neck are smeared the color of vermilion, except two white streaks around his eyes and down his long, hawk-beaked nose. His body is enveloped in a network of feathers, and his legs thrust into painfully-tight leggings, the moccasins on his feet representing claws. Near this absurd figure stands a Micco-succy brave. He is a follower of the Prophet, and, to denote his hostility to the white man, has stripped himself naked to the waist, and painted his body a funereal black. A death's-head and cross-bones are traced in white upon his breast, and a hideous monster, half man and half animal, on his back. He is thus in mourning till he strikes his enemy, when he will wash and resume his usual costume. 
               This is a favorite conceit with the young men, who, for the most part, are for war. Some vary the design with quaint figures of birds and reptiles, the alligator and snake being the favorite emblems. But it is worthy of note, in all these changes, that the individual's state of mind in reference to the impending struggle is kept steadily in view,-a state which he endeavors to represent by symbols. If he is extremely hostile, he assumes a threatening black; if moderately so, he relieves the black by some other color; if angry or dissatisfied, he adopts a lighter shade; if doubtful, he blends light and dark together; and, if for peace, he signifies his wishes by pure white. 
               He reserves the right, however, to change his mind, at any time, from peace to war; and it frequently happens that a warrior commences the dance in pure white and ends it in dismal black, going through as many changes, in the mean while, as a chameleon. 
               Here is a grave old chief whose dancing days are over, but who, nevertheless, takes an interest in what is going on. It is Choloka-cha, or Little Horse, a noted brave, one of the last to surrender when the power of the nation was broken by Jackson. His body is wrinkled and covered with scars, but not painted, as he does not dance. The medals of several Presidents of the United States hang upon his breast, and to his leggings are attached silver bells, which jingle as the old fellow shakes himself occasionally. The tall chief near him is Halpalta-Hadjo, the Crazy Alligator. He is a head-man, and, to mark his sense of the occasion, has arrayed himself in all the splendor of full dress. The crimson-painted jaws of an alligator peer hideously above his scalp-lock, the tail falling behind, like a lady's train, somewhat to his embarrassment. 
               The signal for the dance is at length given from the grove,-shrill yells and the beating of Indian drums. 
               The warriors hasten thither; the women and children are left in the town; the prisoners remain shut up in the council-house, guarded by an old warrior, who struts before the door, armed with the sergeant's sword and several huge knives, of whom more anon. For the present let us follow the warriors. A large fire burning before the lodge is the first object visible on entering the grove. The medicine-men surround it in earnest conjuration, dancing, singing, and flourishing their charms. They are decked in all the glory of paint and feathers, and near them lie Indian drums, mummies of birds and reptiles, quaint wooden figures, gourds filled with berries, roots, skins, etc.,-a strange and grotesque assortment. Other fires are built at intervals around the grove; the warriors assemble at them as they come in; each, as he salutes his neighbor, has a sedate and thoughtful air; it is not an occasion for trifling. At length, the head-men being assembled and gravely expectant, the Prophet gives a signal, and the ceremony begins. A chief enters the ring, and, bowing to the war-pole, commences to stamp slowly around, uttering at intervals of a second or two the interjection, "Ah-hoo! Ah-hoo!" the last syllable being expelled, with a great effort, from his chest. 
               A warrior follows the chief, then another, and still another, until fifteen or twenty grim figures are in the ring, all stamping and grunting at the same time. This makes up the requisite number for a dance, and, just as the last warrior enters the circle, the leader returns to the point from which he started. He now quickens his step, and sings in a plaintive voice a wild chant, the burden of which is the word, or rather collocation of syllables, "Yo-han-I-way!" the accent being on the first syllable, and the tone varying according to the passion that is supposed to move him. His followers quicken their steps at the same time, and reply in a chorus having for its refrain the word "Yo hiane!" repeated simultaneously in the lowest notes of their naturally high voices. Thus the circuit is made a second time. The leader then changes his step into a short, jerking jump, which gradually becomes faster and faster and more and more energetic as he proceeds. His followers imitate him, until the ground fairly trembles with their united tramp, and the ring is gone around a third time. All now toss their arms in the air, shake their heads from side to side and distort their bodies, the song being kept up with an ever-increasing energy and rapidity. If the leader grunts, they all do the same in chorus; if he raises his hand, they raise theirs together,-they do whatever he does, however absurd it may be, for they are not yet emancipated from his control. So far there is nothing in the dance, or in the action of the dancers, that would indicate its character. To all appearance it is simply a savage performance without meaning or object,-a ceremony not more extravagant than that of the Dancing Dervishes or Shaking Quakers. But speedily "a change comes o'er the spirit of the dance," and what at first was a simple exhibition of bodily vigor, soon becomes a display of the most ferocious passions. 
               A warrior mutters in a low tone and gesticulates threateningly; another does the like; a third whirls around and dances backward, boasting loudly of his feats; whilst a fourth bursts into a frantic yell. This is the exciting part of the dance. The imagination of the performers becomes excited, their eyes glare, foam gathers on their lips, and they resemble a set of maniacs indulging in eccentric feats, independently of their leader's control. Here a warrior is taking a scalp, there another is creeping upon his foe; this one tosses his arms in the air and utters a series of whoops and yells, and that one squats on his hams and hops about in the most frantic manner. All are excited to a pitch of frenzy, and the perspiration pours from their swarthy bodies. 
               The medicine-men, meanwhile, are in a state of intense excitement like the rest. The inspirational mood is upon them, and they dance, sing, beat drums, shake sticks, and rattle gopher shells; and where they see signs of flagging on the part of any one of the dancers, laugh at or taunt him, at the same time complimenting those who display extraordinary agility and endurance. 
               "Look!" cries one. "Oalusta can't dance!" The individual thus designated retorts by a furious caper. 
               "Ola!" shouts an old warrior, holding up his brown, withered paws. "Yaha-Emathla-Chopko has white hands; to-morrow they will be red!" 
               "Hoo! Hoo!" grunts a gigantic savage, with deer horns on his head. "Hickita's lodge is empty; he will fill it with pale-face scalps!" 
               The dance now is painful to behold. The warriors still grunt and sing, but it is evidently with an effort; their breathing becomes loud and labored, their tongues loll from their mouths, and the ring is moistened with their sweat. At this point the leader ceases the dance, darts toward the war-pole, and buries his knife deep in the red, thus proclaiming himself and party enlisted for the war. He then relinquishes the ring to another leader, who repeats the dance with such variations as his imagination suggests. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               SERGEANT ATKINS REPENTS OF HIS FOLLY. 
               A DOZEN canoes quickly reached the spot where the soldiers had sunk; a dozen outstretched hands grasped them as they rose, puffing and blowing, to the surface; a dozen sturdy arms dragged them, amid taunts and yells, to the shore, the sergeant the while maintaining a dogged silence which no provocation on the part of the savages could induce him afterward to break. 
               But the conduct of Bolls was not quite so dignified. He resolutely declined walking to his temporary prison, the council-house, and, on being dragged there by several experienced and bitter-minded squaws, heralded by others in a sort of triumphal dance, he offered, with the sergeant's permission and the assurance of fair play, to fight any two of the crowd according to the strike-from-the-shoulder code. This handsome proposition being rejected, he scornfully denounced "the whole kit and caboodle as a set of sneaking, cowardly, breech-clouted niggers!" 
               Having thus vented his indignation, Bolls further evinced his contempt by turning his back on the old warrior heretofore alluded to, into whose custody he was given, and who proceeded to inform him (while he bound his limbs with deerskin thongs) that he, Luste-Hadjo, was a great warrior, a cousin of the Buzzard, that he loved the blue-jacket, and, as a special mark of his affection, would be compelled to brain him if he attempted to escape! 
               Chuckling over the originality of this joke, the old villain then stuck the recruit's cap on his scalp-lock, and, appropriating the sergeant's sword, performed some experimental flourishes, the object of which apparently was to see how near he could come to his nose without touching it; but, finding him insensible to this exhibition of skill, the old soldier's countenance remaining composed, he stuck the weapon in his belt, cast the prisoners on the flat of their backs, and dismissing the squaws with a leer at the youngest, and a compliment to the oldest and ugliest of their number-namely, his own virtuous helpmate, of whom he stood in no little awe, he secured the door, and took his post as guard outside. 
               Left to themselves, the soldiers heard the busy hum of preparation amid the lodges. It struck upon their ears like the buzzing of a swarm of angry bees, the indistinctness only rendering the sound more ominous. 
               Sergeant Atkins was not in the least degree frightened; indeed, we doubt whether he had ever experienced the sensation of fear,-we mean that abject feeling which unnerves and unmans. But he could not help perceiving that something of a startling character was going on in the town, and, ignorant of what had taken place in the morning, he naturally concluded that the commotion had reference to events which had resulted so disastrously to himself and Bolls. Perhaps the savages were deliberating upon what they would do with them; or perhaps that question was already decided, and they were making preparations for burning them at the stake, or for compelling them to "run the gauntlet," or something of an equally horrible character. 
               The bare thought quickened the blood in the old soldier's veins, and well-nigh upset the philosophy he had acquired by his forty-five years' service. Bitterly repenting his stubbornness in disregarding Bluesnake's warning, he felt humbled and disposed to conciliate his fellow-prisoner oner, whose silence, after the first ebullition of anger, had reproached him far more keenly than words would have done. In this charitable frame of mind he spoke. "I say, Bolls! how goes it, my son? have they left you any skin on your ankles and wrists to swear by?" The only reply to this question was a deep snore from the recruit, who, exhausted by his exertions, had fallen into a profound slumber. 
               "A plucky chap; he takes it coolly, and I don't know but he's right. Lying awake won't help matters, though there's a to-morrow! But, oh, what a nice fool I have been!" Then, resuming, after a pause, "I wonder where's Bluesnake? If he deserts me, I shall never trust any one again. I will lose all confidence in human nature,-hang me, if I won't! Scissors! how these cords cut!-old buffer knows how to tie for keeps. If I had him by the windpipe I'd make him see stars by the million! That chap handled his canoe well on the river,-Lord! how he paddled! but I would have caught him if it hadn't a-been for the upset,-my fault again, I am always putting my foot in it. But, hang care, it killed a cat. Better luck next time. I believe I'll sleep, too, it's the best thing I can think of just now." And, with this jumble of words and ideas, the old soldier relapsed into silence, into meditation, into unconsciousness, into sleep. He was as much fatigued as Bolls, and with both nature had been unreasonably taxed. 
               The soldiers slept until midnight, when they awoke sore from their bonds, and stiff from the constrained attitude in which they had lain. Neither felt disposed to slumber again. They were too tired and anxious, and there is a wakefulness arising from both of these causes. The town was comparatively quiet,-the murmuring voices of the squaws at the fires, the occasional yelp of a dog on the plain, or the distant cry of an animal in the forest, being the only sounds to break the silence. Sergeant Atkins listened in the hope of hearing a signal or something that would relieve him from his present horrible suspense. There was an old compact between himself and Bluesnake,-a solemn understanding to help each other under all circumstances. Nothing was to prevent it. Life itself was to be sacrificed if necessary, and he felt confident that the guide would be true to his part of the agreement. It would not be the first time he had tested him. The sergeant was more remarkable for getting into than out of a scrape. But, excepting when he was captured by the Comanches and tied up to the stake, he had never been in so desperate a strait before. 
               Presently he heard, or fancied that he heard, his name uttered in a low voice. The sound seemed to come from a corner of the council-house farthest from the door, and was followed by a hiss, as if a snake was coiled there. With all his faculties aroused to the utmost, he waited for a repetition of the occurrence, but it was not repeated. There were several minute sounds,-a cricket chirping, a mouse squeaking, something faintly rustling,-but that was all. 
               He tried to see into the corner, but the darkness was impenetrable, and he strained his eyes to no purpose. He again held his breath and listened,-not a whisper. The hoot of an owl suddenly disturbed the silence. It seemed to come from the roof overhead; or, was this imagination? More than likely, for, a minute afterward, it sounded like the locomotive's whistle, afar off in the woods, with its "hoot-toot-toot-too!" which, in army vernacular, has been interpreted into "who-cooks-for-you?" 
               The distant tramp of the warriors in the dance began to be audible to the soldiers, as they struggled up into a sitting posture on the bare ground of their prison. It was pitch-dark within, but light without, the moon's rays having broken through the clouds, which had completely overcast the sky in the earlier part of the night. Neither prisoner was in the mood to converse, the sergeant being mortified, and the recruit sleepy and indifferent, having, like a true soldier, thrown the entire responsibility of the situation upon his superior. 
               "This is a bad business, Bolls. Have you thought of what'll be the upshot of it?" said the sergeant, at last. 
               "Oh, I guess they'll let us go when they find out who we are," confidently answered the recruit. 
               "I doubt that, boy. 'Tisn't often they have a chance at a white man's scalp. Do you hear that noise?" 
               "A kind of beating on the ground?" 
               "You may call it that." 
               "I have been listening to it for some time." 
               "There's no mistaking its meaning," significantly said the sergeant. 
               "Why, what do you make of it?" 
               "The war-dance!" solemnly returned the old soldier. 
               "The war-dance, eh! It must be a queer thing to look at,-I should like to see it." 
               "You'll see it soon enough." 
               "They ought to have sent us an invite," observed the recruit, yawning. 
               "They'll not forget you," gravely returned the sergeant. "But, joking apart, we are in a tight place, Bolls; our scalps are in danger,-do you take? I'm beginning to fear I was wrong in my idea of these Indians. They are bent upon mischief; and, if so, we are 'gone fawn-skins,' and no mistake." 
               "Do you really think they will try their devilry on us?" asked the recruit, his apprehensions, for the first time, aroused. 
                
               "I know it," was the impressive reply. 
               "Then let's get away," exclaimed the former, struggling furiously with his bonds. 
               "No use, Bolls, no sort of use. You'll only tire yourself out, and bring the whole pack howling about our ears. Keep your strength till to-morrow, when you'll be likely to have more need of it." 
               Recognizing the good sense of this advice, and finding, moreover, that he was hopelessly bound, the recruit ceased his efforts, and, muttering something about redskins, and his desire to brain some one, threw himself back in sullen silence. 
               A weary half-hour went by. It seemed an age to the sergeant as he spent the minutes in alternate hope and regret,-hope that something would turn up to rescue them from present peril; regret that he had been so rash and precipitate in his action. Perhaps the savages would be afraid to resort to extreme measures against them; or perhaps Bluesnake would be able to enlist the services of some of the principal chiefs in their favor,-for the sergeant clung to the idea that the guide would remain true; or perhaps, after all, the Indians only intended to give them a good scare, and would release them in the morning. These were slender hopes, but anything was preferable to despair; the old soldier was of too determined a disposition to yield to absolute despondency under any circumstances. The Indians might torture, but they could not frighten him, or extort from him a single groan; and, if the worst came to the worst, he would show them how to die,-how a white man could endure agony which a native would shrink from. He would show the reptiles that the "Jumping Squirrel" of the Sacs and Foxes was superior to the greatest redskin of them all. But this heroic bearing could not save Bolls. Ah! here was the sergeant's weak place, his tender spot! He loved Bolls more dearly than the sculptor loves the clay he is fashioning into form. He had hoped to make a thorough soldier of him. Not your awkward, gawky, round-shouldered chap, looking like a booby and saluting like a jumping-jack; but a neat, clean-shaved, well-set-up soldier, who could drill a squad from "A to izzard," and tell his right band from his left whilst facing the company,-a soldier, in fact, who knew the difference between drill and discipline. Such, we say, were the sergeant's expectations when he enlisted Bolls; and to ruin him in the beginning of his career, to sacrifice him before he had acquired even the rudiments of his profession, was harrowing in the extreme to his mind. Supposing his subordinate to be equally anxious about his military prospects, he essayed to comfort him. "I'm sorry, Bolls, for having gotten you into this scrape," he began in a remorseful tone, "but can't help it now; the thing's done, and that's all about it. I don't care for myself. I always calculated to die in the discharge of my duties as a soldier; but I'm concerned for your future promotion, my boy!" 
               "Don't want any promotion." 
               "Did mortal man ever hear the like?" said the sergeant, confidentially to himself; then aloud to his subordinate, "Promotion, Bolls, is as necessary as uniform to the soldier,-he's a machine without it, and a very poor machine at that. Deprive him of all chances of rising in his profession, and you rob him of his best incentive, of his brightest hope,-make a cat's-paw of him, in fact." The sergeant paused, and resumed: "It's a grand profession, the soldier's, but there must be no tinkering at it. 'Tisn't every one is fit because he puts on a uniform and can talk. The man who aspires to command, must first learn to obey. There's such a thing as subordination that isn't taught in the books. Howsomever, that's not the point now," pursued the speaker, with a sigh. "I'm afraid, my son, you'll have to live and die an unattached recruit, unless I lance you corporal on the spot for what, you might have done. The thing isn't without precedent. It'll make you an officer, and give you greater consideration in the eyes of the savages." 
               "Don't want to be made an officer," hastily said the recruit. 
               "Just as you please, boy. But 'tisn't every one who refuses rank when it's offered 'em; though perhaps you are right here, as the less consequence you are, the sooner they'll put you out of the way,-and, talking of that, have you thought of a suitable death-song with which to entertain the reptiles? They'll expect it of you. Any good regulation tune'll do, provided you shout it out strong. As for me, I shall give 'em a touch of Sac and Fox, by way of defiance." 
               "I can stand anything the niggers can do!" stoutly spoke the recruit; and, as an evidence of his resigned state of mind, he endeavored to kick open the door against which his feet rested when he was so unceremoniously bundled in. His efforts, though abortive, had the effect of terribly frightening the old warrior, who, in his capacity of guard, had seated himself with his back propped against the door at which the recruit was battering. Firmly persuaded that the soldiers had untied themselves in some miraculous way, and were endeavoring to escape, he set up a tremendous howl, which brought to his assistance a flying concourse of chattering squaws, to whom, being a vainglorious old savage, though cowardly withal, he proceeded to detail the daring attempt of the blue-jackets to escape, and his own bravery in holding the door against such overwhelming odds. Reassured by the crowd his outcry had collected, Luste-Hadjo at length ventured to open the door, and to peep cautiously in; and, finding the prisoners still prone on their backs, he furiously pounced upon the recruit, pommeled and kicked him unmercifully, and then handed him over to the squaws, to undergo a second edition, with such variations and amendments as their very prolific imaginations might suggest. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               BLUESNAKE AS A CONJURER. 
               NOW, somehow or other, Indian women are great experts in the art of tormenting. A Spanish inquisitor of the olden time might have taken lessons of them. When they approach with stealthy steps, and hands itching to get hold of a prisoner, the warriors stand aside. They can torture, too, with the tongue as well as with the hands, and will sting their victim almost to madness whilst flaying him alive. This is a singular fact, and, were it not for the narrative, we would undertake to explain it on the theory that women in a savage state, like the females of certain animals, are more ferocious than the males. But we must now return to the soldiers whom we left shut up in the council-house, awaiting events with such philosophy as they could summon to their aid. 
               The absence of the warriors allowed a fair field to the squaws whom Luste-Hadjo's outery had assembled, and, as the occasion was rare, they enjoyed it accordingly. Under the direction of a grisly-bearded crone they flitted away, like a flock of noisy blackbirds, to procure fagots from the fires, with which to singe the prisoners,-a preliminary to more formal tortures. The soldiers' lives hung upon a thread, when a gorgeously painted warrior suddenly made his appearance in the crowd, and loudly commanded them to wait till he, a great medicine-man, had made the bluejackets shed tears. 
               This proposition was received with screams of delight, the squaws arranging themselves, with their blazing fagots, in a circle around the captives. Squatting on his hams, the conjurer began to mutter and pluck at the clothes of the old soldier, who lay gazing in astonishment at the contortions of his face, which was plainly visible by the yellow light of the blazing pine-knots; but, as the sergeant's eyes encountered the conjurer's, they lit up with a sudden gleam of intelligence which as quickly subsided into a cold, imperturbable stare. 
               Sergeant Atkins, however, was not deceived. That single glance had revealed to him, under a hideous coating of paint and pine-smut, the face of his friend and ally,-Bluesnake. 
               Comprehending the guide's object, partly by a few words of English which he introduced into his gibberish, the old soldier, after sundry gulps and ineffectual efforts, finally succeeded in producing sounds which might be taken for the blubbering of a boy, but which more resembled the dismal croakings of a bull-frog. His "giving-in" was hailed with screams of derisive laughter, the squaws joining hands and dancing around the prisoners, brandishing their fagots, and cutting some rather unfeminine capers, Bolls adding to the clamor in decidedly objectionable language by consigning them to the hottest place on record, as "a pack of Indian witches." 
               Meanwhile the more crafty of the dames had matured a highly ingenious plan of torture, and were about to put it into practice, when the conjurer again interfered and offered so far to exert his professional skill as to change the blue-jackets into a couple of white squaws. "But," he added, gravely, "my sisters must leave the council-house, and not come near it, as the spirit will be angry if any eye but my own sees the process of transformation." 
               These words had the desired effect,-such an opportunity seldom offered itself. The thing was as good as done, and the squaws departed in a body, with Luste-Hadjo, boastful and jubilant, in their midst. 
               Left alone with the soldiers, Bluesnake drew his knife and cut the thongs which bound their arms and legs. He then gave it to the sergeant, with a hasty injunction to get out of the prison as soon as possible, and to make his way to the ford, where he would find a friend prepared to guide him through the numerous perils that beset his path. 
               The guide then departed, slightly but ostentatiously closing the door behind him, and soon his footsteps died away as he took his course in the direction of the squaws, who were crowded together a short distance from the council-house, awaiting with impatience the spells of a conjurer who had already given them such convincing proof of his power. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               SERGEANT ATKINS REDEEMS HIS CHARACTER AS A SENSIBLE MAN. 
               NO sooner was Bluesnake gone than the old soldier bestirred himself to take advantage of his friendly interposition. He was stiff and sore from the thongs; but what of that? His limbs were now free, his friend was nigh, a knife was in his hand, the door of his prison was ajar, and it would be a bold redskin who would undertake, to fasten it again. 
               Reconnoitering the enemy through the chinks, he could see the formidable body of squaws, marshaled at a fire, listening to a speech from their leader,-the before-mentioned old crone,-who, from her animated gestures and the display of a petticoat that had seen several generations of squaws, no doubt was expatiating on the best way of amusing themselves at the expense of the gazer. 
               This sight was sufficient to determine the sergeant, had he doubted as to what he ought to do. So, brandishing the knife, with the solemn determination of making mincemeat of any one who should have the temerity to oppose him, he slipped out, and with wonderful dexterity managed to put the council-house between himself and some fifty pairs of eyes that were peering through the gloom of the night at the door. 
               But the recruit's retreat was not conducted with quite as much skill. Naturally forgetting, in his anxiety to follow his leader, the old adage "more haste the less speed," he furnished a practical illustration of its truth by measuring his full length upon the ground, to the great dismay of the sergeant and general wonderment and affright of the squaws. 
               Concealment was now out of the question. The sergeant waited only to see his friend on his feet, and then took to his heels with eager speed, followed by Bolls, and pursued by the screeching witches, whose confidence the conjurer had betrayed. 
               And here, notwithstanding the urgency of the case, we cannot refrain from commenting on a singular propensity we have in common with dogs,-to chase anything that runs from us. Let "stop thief!" for example, be shouted in our hearing, and, though we may care nothing for the capture of the runaway, on the mere score of his guilt,-nay, may wish to see him escape,-still, away we go, helter-skelter, pell-mell, satisfied with following out this instinct, or whatever it is, and never stopping till we have had our run out! 
               And so with dogs. If an unfortunate cur goes howling with fright and pain along the streets, how quickly a pack of dogs is in savage chase of the unhappy victim! 
               Thus it was with the soldiers. No sooner were their flying figures plainly visible in the light of the fires, than the town resounded with a horrible din, in which it was difficult to determine whether the shrill screams of the squaws, the yelping of the dogs, or the cracked whoop of the old warrior most predominated. Never before had Bolls heard such sounds. It seemed as if bedlam and witchdom had broken loose in full cry after him endowing him with an agility he had never dreamed of possessing. 
               Whilst one party followed the fugitives by the direct path, the other, urged on by the old warrior, took a shortcut to the ford. This was, luckily, the path by which the sergeant fled; and his speed was none the less, when he reflected that, although his pursuers were a crowd of chattering squaws whom he could easily beat in a foot-race, there would soon be others on his trail with whom it would be much more difficult as well as dangerous to cope,-so, putting all dignity into his pocket, he bounded along the well-worn path with a fleetness that taxed the recruit's less practiced muscles to keep him in view, and fairly distanced the squaws, who came streaming after the two, with blazing fagots in hand, and petticoats flapping in the wind. 
               Tam O'Shanter, chased by the witches, never was in such imminent peril as Sergeant Atkins, chased by the squaws, for Tam, mounted on his gray mare Meg, was safe, could he manage to put running water between himself and the witches, while the old soldier had only "Shank's mare" to trust to, and was almost in as much danger on one side of the river as on the other,-running water was no safeguard to him. 
               Meanwhile Bluesnake had not been idle. Joining the party that had taken the short-cut to the ford, he easily outstripped its members, impeded as they were by their nether garments (Luste-Hadjo, the only male, being too short-winded even to keep up with the squaws), and arrived on the river-bank almost at the same moment with the fugitives. Pointing to a canoe, in which knelt a large Indian holding it to the bank, paddle in hand, he hastily said, "Charley-Emathla is a friend, and will guide my father to Fort King-get in." 
               The soldiers entered, and Bluesnake, with a vigorous shove, aided by the powerful stroke of the chief, sent the canoe spinning into the darkness just as the vanguard of the squaws came into view, with the old warrior in the rear, wheezing and whooping vigorously. 
                
               But what was their rage on finding the soldiers gone! Shrieks and screams resounded on all sides. A troop of angry monkeys could not have acted more absurdly! Some descended to the water's edge and beat the stream with their fagots, denouncing it in set terms; others hurried here and there along the bank, searching every possible and impossible place for the fugitives; whilst others huddled together and told marvelous stories as to the mode of the soldiers' escape. They had been seen flying across the plain on the back of a huge bird; they had been observed diving and disappearing under the water; they had been noticed vanishing into the air! All had something wonderful to relate, and the hubbub was at its highest when Oseola made his appearance, accompanied by several warriors. His coming was a signal for the squaws to retire, and some order, in consequence, to ensue. First dispatching a party after the fugitives with orders to bring them back dead or alive,-alive, if possible, as it belonged to the council to finally dispose of them,-he turned to Luste-Hadjo, who was entertaining an attentive group. 
               The old knave was in his glory. Never did he have such an opportunity to talk "big,"-never would he have such an opportunity again. He actually swelled like the frog in the fable, and this was the substance of his story: He had bound the blue-jackets so that nothing but the Evil One himself could undo the knots, and, fastening the door, had seated himself with his back to it, knife in hand, when all of a sudden he heard a noise inside like a dog's growl, or it might have been a wolf's. "But it was no wolf," he added, with an emphatic toss of his head. 
               "What was it?" asked an Indian brave. 
               "Luste-Hadjo won't be interrupted," and he waved his hand in a pompous manner. "I knew it wasn't a wolf, for, peeping through a crack of the door, I saw--" 
                
               "What?" demanded the same curious individual. 
               "I told you not to interrupt me," said Luste-Hadjo, frowning; "I saw the Evil One, of course,-who else could it have been?" 
               "How did he look?" asked the warrior, unabashed by Luste-Hadjo's reproof. 
               "Look!" returned the latter, hesitating; "how can I tell?" 
               "I thought you had seen him." 
               "So I did,-that is, his shadow." 
               "A shadow!" exclaimed the rest. 
               "Well, what would you have?" said the old warrior, pleadingly, "had it been a man, you would all now see who it was, for he wouldn't have escaped me." Here he drew his knife and struck an attitude. "But being a shadow only--" 
               At this interesting point of his narrative the old knave's eyes encountered Oseola's bent sternly upon him. There was no evading the scrutiny,-it seemed to pierce him through. He ceased speaking, his head sank upon his breast, and he stood, the picture of a detected braggadocio and liar. 
               A pause of several seconds ensued, during which Oseola continued menacingly to eye the shrinking delinquent; at last he spoke: "What has Luste-Hadjo to say for letting the blue-jackets go?" 
               The old warrior knew that, however easily he could deceive the others, he could not so readily delude the chief; so, making a merit of necessity, he said, with a whine, "A great medicine-man shut the eyes of Luste-Hadjo." 
               "A medicine-man is a big man, and can make it thunder and rain," said the chief, looking around him. "Where is he?" 
               "There!" cried Luste-Hadjo, pointing spitefully to Bluesnake, as he smilingly stood in the midst of the warriors. 
               Oseola's gaze sought that of the guide. It was the first time these two remarkable Indians had met. Neither flinched from the encounter. The scrutiny of the chief was long and minute, but not the slightest feeling was perceptible in his manner, as he at length said, "My brother is a stranger, and is welcome. How long has he been in the lodges?" 
               "Since the sun went down. I came to the dance of my fathers," was the calm reply. 
               "To whose band does my brother belong?" 
               "Bluesnake is a Micco-succy brave, and belongs to no band," proudly answered the guide. 
               Oseola bent his head in deference to this announcement, and said, "The Micco-succies are warriors, and strike their enemies in the front, but they are Seminoles, too, and come to the dance at sunrise, and not when he goes to sleep." 
               "I started to be here in time, but was stopped in the trail," hastily answered the guide. 
               "What stopped my brother?" 
               "My great cousin, the snake."
                     Micco-nope's reason for failing to attend a council at Tampa Bay, in which he had promised to meet the white man.
                  
                
               This was a shrewd reply. A belief in his descent from animals, and his consequent duties toward them, is firmly rooted in the Indian mind. 
               The Delawares derive their origin from the turtle, the Shoshones from the snake, the Crows from the "Great Crow," the Assiniboines from the buffalo, etc. There is scarcely a tribe but, according to traditions believed among them, is thus descended, its members often claiming kinship ship with other animals as brothers, uncles, cousins, etc. Oseola was himself related to the heron, and, to mark his appreciation of the honor, always wore a heron's plume attached to his scalp-lock. It had been given him by his mother's mother, whilst he was yet a boy, with the injunction to prize it above all earthly things, as it was taken from a wing of his great ancestor. 
               Oseola again bent his head, and said, "It is well; the Great Snake is my brother's cousin, and has claims on his time and attention; but one thing I would like to know--" 
               "The chief can ask, and Bluesnake will answer." 
               "Did the Great Snake show my brother how to close Luste-Hadjo's eyes?" 
               "Luste-Hadjo is a mole, and has no eyes," scornfully replied the guide. 
               A plaintive howl from the old warrior proclaimed his indignant dissent from such a disparaging remark. He specially prided himself on his keenness of vision. His squaw, Atulpe, always addressed him by the pet name of "Little-see-in-the-dark," when she wanted to be affectionate, which, by the way, was not often; and to be called a mole, of all things, was harrowing to his feelings,-of a verity, he could not stand it! He grinned furiously at his defamer, and, having thus somewhat relieved himself, began a voluble harangue wherein truth and falsehood were hopelessly entangled, and his arms in danger of being jerked from their sockets, when his oration was cut short by Oseola, who, with a meaning glance at the guide, peremptorily commanded him to reserve what he had, to say for the information of the council.
                
               The chief had turned to depart, when our old acquaintance, Itunwah, stole softly behind him and whispered in his ear. What he said was evidently of moment, for Oseola abandoned his purpose, and again addressing the guide, said, with stern emphasis, "A great warrior says you are a double-tongue." 
               "Who says so?" asked the guide, with the slightest possible hesitation of manner. 
               Oseola stepped aside and revealed the accuser. 
               Bluesnake regarded his enemy with a scornful smile. "M'ka, yes, I know him," he quickly said. 
               "And I know you!" fiercely retorted the savage. 
               Bluesnake laughed aloud. 
               "A snake from Phowoka."
                     Literally a fort, in this case Fort King.
                  
                
               He again laughed. 
               "A friend of the blue-jackets; I saw him lead their trail." 
               The guide no longer laughed. The expression of his face became hideous; his eyes flashed and the veins of his neck swelled, as he cried, with intense scorn, "I hear a dog howl! Hua! the drunken dog of the pale-faces!" 
               If it was Bluesnake's purpose to provoke Itunwah into the commission of some outrageous act that would clearly put him in the wrong, he fully gained his object; but it was at a fearful risk to himself. Hoarsely screaming "Liar, chatterer, snake!" the infuriated savage drew his knife, and, before any one could prevent him, hurled it with tremendous force at his enemy. The mark was plain and the aim true. Striking the medal he wore on his breast, as a token of faithful services, it clove the stout plate, and taking, fortunately, a slanting direction, buried itself in the folds of his hunting-shirt. Only slightly wounded, thanks to the medal, Bluesnake drew out the knife, and casting it down, smilingly said, "A pappoose could strike with more cunning. Itunwah wants the fire-drink of the whites to give strength to his arm." 
                
               
                   
                     Hoarsely screaming "Liar, chatterer, snake!" the infuriated savage drew his knife, and, before any one could prevent him, hurled it with tremendous force at his enemy. Page 126 
                  
                
                
                
               This last taunt fell on unconscious ears. Cut to the heart by the guide's sneer with a bitter conviction of its truth, the unhappy savage had bowed his head on his breast, and was uttering low and discordant sounds. 
               Now it must not be supposed that the spectators of this murderous assault on Bluesnake saw it unmoved. It was so sudden that no one could interfere until it was over, when several warriors started forward to seize the aggressor, whilst all were loud in condemning the outrage. 
               By the stern laws of the Seminoles,-indeed, of all the Indian tribes,-any one attempting another's life, without just cause, forfeits his own to the aggrieved party, who has the right to take it when and where he pleases. He is not required to retreat till his back is against a wall before he can kill his assailant. Retaliation is the Indian's law,-"an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth" is his moral code; and Bluesnake would have been justified in slaying Itunwah then and there, and none would have raised a hand to prevent it. Indeed, one warrior took up the knife from where it had been thrown, and presented it to him, saying significantly, "It is my brother's turn now!" Grasping the weapon, the guide strode forward, and raised his hand to strike the defenseless savage. 
               For an instant his face became frightful; all the worst passions of an Indian's nature shone in it; the clear, copper complexion assumed the hue of blood; the teeth, set as by a vice, glittered within the parted lips, and his eyes, firmly fixed upon his enemy, gleamed with a deadly light. But it was only for an instant. He again threw down the knife, and turned proudly away, saying, "A Seminole does not stain his weapon with the blood of a Seminole,-let the dog live!" 
               Whoops and yells at once responded to this reply. Savages are not insensible to a magnanimous act, neither are they insensible to magnanimous words; and both the act and words of the warrior, in this instance, had the ring of the true metal. 
               Impressed more than he was willing to acknowledge, by the generous and noble conduct of the guide, Oseola hastened to express his regret at what had taken place, and to hope his brother was not seriously hurt, insisting on examining his wound himself, and bandaging it with strips of his own hunting-shirt, which he took off and tore up for the purpose. 
               While thus engaged, the chief complimented the wounded man for his forbearance in not killing Itunwah when he could have done so with impunity. It would have made bad blood, and caused dissensions among the people. Oseola did not believe that his brother was guilty; but Luste-Hadjo said so, the squaws said so, and so many "said so's" must be listened to. A lie remained a lie until it was disproved, when it returned and plagued the one who uttered it. The council would investigate the matter, and put the blame where it belonged. "Till then," continued the chief, "my brother must not leave the town." 
               Bluesnake was then invited to return with him to the grove, the chief having first ordered a couple of warriors to look after the demented savage. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE PIAOK, OR GRASSY WATER. 
               FOR several minutes after taking refuge in the canoe, the soldiers were so exhausted by their run over the plain as to be incapable of further effort. Had his life depended upon it, Bolls could have done nothing more than sink down and wipe the perspiration from his face, whilst the deep breathing of the sergeant showed that he too was pretty well blown. 
               Fortunately there was no immediate necessity for exertion on the part of either. The little boat that bore them was evidently in the hands of a master, and, under his skillful guidance, it darted like a bee on its course, with scarcely a ripple from the bow or sides to betray its whereabouts to prying eyes on the river-bank. The night was dark, and a heavy mist hung over the water. This was so much the more in their favor, that, whilst it afforded them concealment, it did not prevent them from seeing their enemies, as they hurried here and there along the bank, screaming like night-hawks, and brandishing their blazing fagots like so many jack-o'-lanterns. 
               Charley-Emathla first directed the canoe toward the middle of the river. His object was to get farther into the mist which covered it. Once there, enveloped in its friendly folds, he would be able to put into practice the plan he had already determined upon. As soon as he had effected his purpose, the bow of the little boat was turned up-stream, and driven around the bend before alluded to with a speed which soon shut out from the view of the soldiers the animated though frightful scene in which they had lately played such a conspicuous part. 
               With the recovery of the old soldier's wind, and we are bound to add, the disappearance of immediate danger, returned his usual loquacity, checked somewhat, however, it must be confessed, by his last twenty-four hours' experience. "Just touch-and-go, by thunder!" he ejaculated, in a low voice. 
               The chief pointed, by way of reply, to a paddle laying beside him. 
               The sergeant seized it and set to work, and, under their joint efforts, the canoe glided more rapidly along, now seeming to spring into the air like a bird taking to wing, and now settling down, as if conscious that its safety lay in sinking deep into the water. 
               The darkest hour of the night is that which immediately precedes the day; and the night was at its darkest, as Charley Emathla broke the silence which had become irksome to the sergeant, by saying, "Stop here!" at the same moment, by a dexterous sweep of his paddle, turning the canoe toward a point on the east bank of the river, at a considerable distance from the town, judging by the time that had elapsed, and the speed at which they had moved, since leaving it. During it all, the soldiers had neither seen nor heard anything to induce them to believe that they were being pursued. On the contrary, the rapidity of their flight, the deep shadows along the banks, the mist that enveloped them, the fact that water leaves no trail, and, above all, the perfect silence that prevailed, satisfied them that they had eluded their enemies, and were now in comparative safety. But not so confident was Charley Emathla. He was not to be deceived by the tranquillity that reigned around; nay, he was but the more suspicious on that account, his experience and knowledge of woodcraft having taught him to distrust signs of a doubtful character. So he peered about him with a vigilance and keenness of sight that detected objects either totally invisible to the soldiers, or else looming before their disordered visions like gigantic monsters brooding over the dark and sullen stream. 
               The friendly Indian acted on the presumption that he was pursued from the start. He knew the bloodhound instinct of his people in discovering a trail, their extraordinary facility in following it, however cunningly it might be hid, and, consequently, that he would require all the resources of his art to baffle them. But to baffle them he was determined; he had pledged his word to Bluesnake to conduct his charge in safety to Fort King, and he intended to carry out the promise in good faith. His being on the water was a great advantage, to begin with, but it was not everything; the real trouble would commence when they attempted to land, for the canoe then had to be disposed of, and their trail where it left the water to be concealed. 
               How the chief overcame both of these difficulties remains to be seen. A few strokes of the paddles brought the canoe to the edge of a great field of grass growing in the water. Selecting a point which seemed best adapted to his purpose, he urged the little skiff into the grass, posting himself in the stern, and lifting the blades that were crushed by its passage, paying particular attention to the point where it had entered the field, and not resting satisfied until he had restored every portion to its natural position. The possibility of doing this, under the circumstances stated, might well be questioned; but it must be remembered that Charley-Emathla was accustomed to such nice operations, and that however dark the night may be, there is always some light on the surface of water, either reflected or phosphorescent,-enough, at all events, to admit of the work described. 
               As the water shoaled, it became more and more difficult to shove the canoe forward, the grass clinging to and retarding the progress of the little boat until at last it stuck fast. This was some distance from the bank, or what might be termed the bank, for here the vegetation encroached upon the water in every variety of aquatic tree and plant. 
               Charley-Emathla now produced moccasins, and invited the soldiers to put them on, throwing their bootees into the river. The three then got out of the canoe, and, lifting it up, concealed it in the bushes, first helping themselves to rifles and pouches, which the chief had taken the precaution to have stowed away in the bow. 
               As the latter still bent to the task of restoring the bushes to their natural appearance, Sergeant Atkins touched him gently on the shoulder, and said, "Thanks, chief, for saving our lives." 
               "Charley-Emathla is the white man's friend," returned the other, looking up from his occupation for an instant. 
               "That's well known, Charley; but where's Bluesnake?" 
               "The snake has more than one hole to his hiding-place; the white man had better think of himself." 
               "I have been doing that for some time past, and it ain't a pleasant reflection," dolefully answered the old soldier. 
               "Can the blue-jacket follow the path, if I show it to him?" impatiently asked the chief. 
               "I fear not," replied the sergeant, gazing ruefully at the dismal scene before him, now beginning to be visible in the gray light of morning. "I'm a poor hand in following blind paths, under the best of circumstances, and my friend here is no better, I'm thinking." The old soldier shook his head, and added, "You might lose me in a ten-acre lot of such swamp as this." 
               "Half that is enough for me," indignantly exclaimed the recruit; "if there's a worse-looking place than this in creation, I would like to know where it is; thank goodness, it don't grow where I come from." 
               "Indians love it," said Charley-Emathla, gravely, eyeing the speaker. 
               "Every one to his taste," said Bolls, with a shiver. "I wish I was back on the old homestead, I do." 
               Charley-Emathla waited until Bolls had delivered himself of this, under the circumstances, very natural speech, and then, wading into the water beyond the line of grass, he bent down and listened intently. 
               Sound travels through the air at the rate of about a fifth of a mile in a second; its velocity through water is four times that through the air. 
               The chief's ear would have detected any unusual noise, had it existed within reasonable distance, but everything was still-the splash of a fish or the ripple of the current of the river, where it encountered an obstacle, being the only sounds that disturbed the silence; and, first cautioning the soldiers to tread carefully in his footsteps, and make as little noise as possible in following him through the water, he led the way up-stream parallel with the shore. His object in this, of course, was to throw the Indians off the trail, after they had found the canoe, for that they would discover it scarcely admitted of a doubt; nor would they be deceived by his trick of resorting to the water. That too would sooner or later be detected by such experienced trailers, so that all he could hope to gain by his double artifice would be the delay thereby occasioned to the pursuers. 
               The rising sun found the wearied soldiers plodding after their taciturn guide. The field of grass had long since been left behind, and now on their right stretched the dark outline of a hummock, its gloomy foliage overhanging and trailing in the water. 
               Stepping on the trunk of a tree that had fallen into the river, the chief glided to the other end, and beckoned to the soldiers to follow him. They did so, after several ineffectual efforts which had resulted each time in plunging them to their middle into the black mud of the swamp. 
               From this slightly-elevated position the sergeant had a partial view of his surroundings; it was anything but reassuring. Before him lay the hummock, shrouded in gloom and resounding with mysterious noises, whilst behind him flowed the river from which he had just emerged. No practicable path was visible in any direction,-look which way he would, all was swamp, massive trees, and matted undergrowth. 
               Although not a timid person, as we have elsewhere said, the heart of the old soldier sank within him as he contemplated the dreary place he must go through if he would escape from a worse peril. Again he repented of his folly in neglecting Bluesnake's warning, again he resolved to be a little more cautious the next time he had to do with the treacherous redskins. 
               "But what's the use of sighing?" muttered the sergeant, bracing himself up. "We are in for it, and must go through." So, postponing regrets to a more suitable occasion, he stepped, or rather plunged, into the black mud, after his silent leader. 
               Obstacles which seemed impassable to the soldiers were slight impediments in the way of Charley-Emathla. He glided over them and through them with undiminished speed, showing neither fatigue himself nor consideration for his wretched followers. If he paused at all, it was to tread in a firmer spot, or to thrust aside a projecting branch, or to caution the soldiers to conceal their footsteps by availing themselves of the stumps and roots and fallen trees lying in the path which he opened for them. But, notwithstanding the aid thus afforded, the two men were utterly fagged out by the time they had reached a higher, and consequently drier, part of the hummock, where there was less undergrowth to obstruct the view. 
               The chief paused here and pointed out to his wearied charge the direction from which they had come, and that in which he now proposed to conduct them. They were being tracked, of course, and it, would be foolish to take the direct path, as their pursuers were many, and would be sure to follow and catch them before reaching the fort. He would show them a place where they could hide until it would be safe to resume the trail, when he would return and lead them on it. 
               Neither Sergeant Atkins nor Bolls had the remotest idea of where they were, the chief's words affording them no clue in the wilderness of swamp which environed them on all sides. 
               "How far are we from the fort?" asked the old soldier, who by this time had learned the wisdom of being brief in his queries. 
               "Three suns." 
               "Three days!" he groaned. "Which way did you say?" 
               "Where the light comes from," Charley-Emathla pointed toward the east, and added, "Fort King is there." 
               "I see nothing but swamp and trees," said the sergeant, gazing wistfully in the direction indicated. "Do you mean three days as the bird flies?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Why not go on at once?" 
               "You can't; the trail must first be covered up." 
               "Then we may as well stop here, for we are not reptiles, to live in the mud," said the sergeant, putting down the butt of his rifle. 
               "The white man may think himself lucky if he gets to the fort at all," impatiently said the chief. 
               "Must we travel all the time?" 
               "No; Charley-Emathla will show the blue-jackets a place where they can rest before going on." 
               "Well, lead on, chief; only remember that we have neither the legs nor the endurance of a deer." 
               "Is the graybeard tired?" sarcastically asked the Indian. 
               Sergeant Atkins proudly raised his head and smiled. 
               The Indian looked at him,-wearied enough in appearance, notwithstanding his brave manner,-and said, as if to himself, "Yet the white man believes that he can drive the nation out of this." 
               "Who told you so?" asked the sergeant, remembering, with a pang, his remarks to Bluesnake on the subject. 
               The chief absently shook his head, saying, "It is the talk." 
               "And foolish talk it is,-all the troops in the world couldn't do it, if you choosed to stay." 
               "Does my father think so?" 
               "It's my opinion." 
               "He must say that to the whites; he's a graybeard, and they'll listen to him. Our Great Father in Washington will make another treaty and rub this crooked one out. The nation will give up the good and keep the bad land for itself. The white man can dig and plant, whilst the Indian will hunt. Neither will be in the other's way, the knife will remain in the sheath, and there will be peace between them,-heh?" And, in the belief that he had found a solution of the difficulties which beset his people, Charley-Emathla tapped the sergeant on the shoulder, and smiled. 
               The former, however, shook his head. "You can't patch up the trouble in that way, my friend; it has gone too far,-blood has been shed. The Indian and the white man can't live harmoniously together; the whole history of your race proves this. I'm sorry to say it, but you must go." 
               Charley-Emathla tossed his head, with an indignant snort, saying, "We will see about that. You whites think we Indians are squaws; you think so. But, come," he added, in a milder tone, "I'll show my father where he will be safe." 
               He then led the wearied soldiers to a secluded spot in the hummock which bore the appearance of having recently been occupied as a camp, for there were several brush huts and the remains of a fire still smouldering. 
               Pointing expressively to the huts, he turned to depart. 
               "Where are you going?" anxiously asked the sergeant. 
               "To cover up the trail." 
               "How long will you be gone?" 
               "Till the sun comes overhead." 
               "We are in your hands, to do with us as you please," resignedly said the veteran. 
               "Charley-Emathla will return, as he has said." 
               "I do not question it; but suppose we are attacked in your absence." 
                
               The chief pointed to the weapon in the sergeant's hand for answer, and then took his departure in the direction he had come. 
               Seating himself on a log already appropriated by Bolls (who had improved the opportunity to load his gun and to disembarrass himself of a portion of the swamp-mud), the old soldier reflected upon the situation, and upon what their course ought to be in the premises. 
               It is idle to say, notwithstanding his emphatic disclaimer to the chief, that he did not have some misgivings as to the latter's honesty of purpose in leading them to where they now were, instead of conducting them directly to the fort. Did he design, in going away, to betray them to his people, he could not have chosen a place better adapted to that end than the desolate and dismal spot in which he had left them. So thought the sergeant; and finally gave vent to his apprehensions aloud: "He may mean fair, but hang me if I like the look of things!" 
               "Nor I," returned the recruit, pausing in his interesting occupation to make the remark. "He is up to no good, I'll bet a dollar." 
               "If I thought so I'd give him a taste of this. "The veteran tapped his gun significantly as he spoke; then remembering that it was the chief's gift, and that he would hardly have made him such a present had he intended to play them false, he hastily added, "But, no, Bolls, it's not fair to suspect him, whatever else we may think." 
               "Why, then, has he gone back?" 
               "To cover up the trail,-didn't you hear him say so?" 
               "There's no trail to cover up; most of it's through water. But talking of the matter won't help us out of this awful place. I vote that we hide there for awhile." 
               Bolls pointed, as he spoke, to a small thicket of scrub palmetto and other bushes near the log upon which he was sitting. 
               Acting on this suggestion, which the sergeant was pleased to say was a good idea, the two ensconced themselves in the thicket, which afforded the advantage of cover, and at the same time enabled them to command an uninterrupted view of the surrounding ground, and especially of the trail by which the chief had departed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE OKEE-FI-NOKEE. 
               THE reader has doubtless noticed, as our story has progressed, that Bolls was beginning to profit by the sergeant's advice, "to look sharp arid learn something," and the first fruit of his newly-acquired experience was the conviction that he must rely upon his own rather than upon his superior's efforts to extricate him from the peril of his present position. The recruit distrusted Charley-Emathla, too; he doubted his honesty of purpose in conducting them to their present uncomfortable quarters in the swamp, for, without any elaborate reasoning (of which, in fact, he was incapable), he could not help wondering why the chief had befriended them at so much risk to himself, and why he had so suddenly left them. To talk of hiding the trail was all nonsense; indeed, there was no trail to hide, and nobody would attempt to follow such a blind path anyhow. A hound could not, much less a man,-it was a natural impossibility; and, coming to this conclusion, Bolls took his seat in the thicket with the determination, as he expressed it, "To shoot Indian, if he cut up rusty, as dead as a herring!" But not so distrustful was Sergeant Atkins. He had faith in Charley-Emathla: first, because he was Bluesnake's friend; secondly, because he had assisted them at a time when he incurred a serious risk in doing so; and, thirdly, because he was the recognized leader of the peace-party. 
               Either one of these reasons was sufficient for the old soldier, who, after his first momentary misgivings as to the chief's good faith, had taken his place beside the recruit in the full belief that he would return, and, to beguile the tediousness of waiting, prepared to indulge in a smoke, the materials for which he had stowed away in a cunningly-contrived pocket in the back of his pantaloons. Drawing forth some tobacco, much damaged by its immersion in the river, he dried it, and then filled and lighted his pipe. 
               "I say, Bolls," observed the sergeant, taking several whiffs, and handing the pipe to the recruit, "did you see that whopper of an alligator as we came along?" 
               "I was nigh taking his tail for a log, and stepping on it," said the recruit, returning the pipe. 
               "He would have hoisted you if you had," laughed the sergeant. "I recollect once trying to capture an alligator in the Hillsborough lagoon." 
               "How was that?" 
               "Left'nant L-- and me saw him lying on the surface of the water." 
               "Asleep?" 
               "I suppose so. The left'nant said he wanted one of his hollow teeth for a rifle-charger, and, jumping into a canoe, we paddled toward him. The left'nant fired at the distance of a few rods, mortally wounding him, as we thought, through the eye, for he wallowed and turned partially over, sticking up a leg and showing the white of his belly,-but it was all make-believe." 
               "How so?" 
               "The canoe had barely touched his side, and I had stooped to throw a noose over his leg, when he rose up out of water, and made a snap at me with his scissors-like jaws, at the same time fetching the canoe a lick with his tail which sent us spinning." 
               "Where did you bring up?" 
               "In the water, of course; and made some quick time to dry land again." 
               "Did he attempt to follow you?" 
               "Not that I could see; though, to tell the truth, I thought of nothing till I got out, and was well up the bank." 
               "Is the alligator a dangerous animal?" 
               "Not if you let it alone. It never attacks a man, but is fond of small animals, living chiefly on fish and water-fowl. Its mode of catching the duck is curious,-lying like a log on the water, or else gliding beneath the surface, with its snout barely out. In this way it will get into the midst of a flock, and devour 'em at its leisure. It's as quick as lightning with its tail, and woe betide the animal that comes within the sweep. But the moccasin of Florida is much more to be dreaded than the alligator." 
               "More than the rattlesnake?" 
               "It's cunninger, and just as venomous; living in wet places, and giving you no notice of its presence until it strikes. It seemed to me that I had one round my leg all the time I was in the swamp." 
               "The nasty mud!-it sticks like glue." 
               "Mud or not, it felt like snakes," said the sergeant, nervously vously passing his hands up and down his legs. "It reminds me of what happened to one of the boys in the Everglades." 
               "What was it?" asked the recruit, settling himself into a comfortable position to listen to the veteran's yarn. The latter was now in his element. 
               "It's a long story, and the short of it is this: the express rider brought us news at Fort King that a family by the name of Cooly had been massacred by the Indians at New River, away off here on the Atlantic side, some distance down the coast. The comp'ny was sent in pursuit of the murderers, to kill or capture 'em, if possible,-them were the orders; but you might as well try to catch a flea in a buffalo robe as Indians after doing a bloody deed,-they are off to the other end of the territory before you can say 'Jack Robinson,' much less get to the scene of their devilry. 
               "We did get there, however, in good time, and found the settlement in ruins, as had been reported. Not a soul remained to tell the story of the massacre; but near one of the burnt shanties there was a cleft stick stuck in the ground with a little wooden scalping-knife and some bunches of hair hanging to it,-a woman's hair we judged it to be by its length and fineness,-which Bluesnake said was a letter from the varmints." 
               "Who to?" 
               "To us, to be sure." 
               "A queer sort of post-office." 
               "It's their way of writing, and is sometimes more significant than printing." 
               "What did it signify?" 
               "Bluesnake said the knife meant war, and the hair was a declaration of its character; searching around we found still more significant signs,-a ring, a stake, and ashes around it,-the ring was trampled where the devils had danced." 
               "What were they dancing for?" 
               "In triumph, of course. There were charred bones in the ashes, which Bluesnake pronounced to be human remains. We dug a grave on the river-bank and buried them there, the left'nant saying as much of the funeral service over 'em as he remembered. Glad I'm through with that part of the story, for I don't like to think of it," added the old soldier, with a shudder. "We looked for the tracks of the murderers, and although some weeks had elapsed since the settlement was ravaged, and the winds and rains had been at work, Bluesnake soon found them. They went toward the head of New River, and were careless-like, as if the reptiles didn't mind concealing their footsteps, the remoteness of the place probably making them indifferent. At all events, we followed the trail till it led us plump to the Everglades." 
               "What are they?" 
               "It would take me a month to tell you all about the Everglades, Bolls; but just imagine a swamp as big as the sea--" 
               "Big as the sea?" 
               "I wont abate an inch,-with grass in place of water, though there is plenty of water too: if you can imagine such a place, full of all sorts of horrid reptiles, a scorching sun overhead, the air close and fetid,-that's the Everglades." 
               "Worse looking place than this?" 
               "Altogether different. You see few trees there, and those few are scattered about singly or in clumps, looking like islands. My first experience of the plaguey place took me into mud and water up to my middle." 
               "What did you do with your gun?" 
                
               "Held it on my shoulder," testily answered the sergeant; 
               "what else could I have done with it?" 
               Bolls laughed, and the sergeant continued: 
               "The fuss we kicked up in the swamp skeered the inhabitants, I reckon, for we had been but a few minutes in it when I heard a rumpus among the men, and looking back, saw a number surrounding a fellow named Davis--" 
               "On the recruiting service with us, wasn't he?" 
               "The same. Davis was bending down grasping his leg at the knee, whilst his upturned face worked with such agony as I never want to see in a face again." 
               "What was the matter with him?" 
               "A moccasin," solemnly returned the sergeant. 
               "Good Lord, what a horrible situation!" 
               "You may well say that; you couldn't get a man of the comp'ny to go nigh him,-not a soul would touch him with a ten-foot pole; so taking two or three jumps toward the poor fellow as his eyes met mine, seeming to say 'Help me, oh, help me, sergeant!' I jerked a razor out of my pocket, and told him to hold up his leg. He did so, and there round the instep, inside the pants, was a moccasin's coil as large as your arm, while you could see the creature's head wriggling above the knee. There was no time to mince matters," added the old soldier, puffing out his cheeks and expelling a large volume of air therefrom. "The man gave unmistakable signs of fainting, and I felt a little squeamish myself; so making a dab with the razor at the snake, I cut it in two, and Davis, taking hold of the severed parts, whirled 'em off into the swamp. One piece hit a chap named Donahue in the face, and thinking himself a goner, he gave a yell and dropped as if he had been shot." 
               "What became of Davis?" 
               "The doctor examined him and found that he was bitten in three places, which he cut out, and cauterized the flesh around, and, excepting a soreness of the wounds, Davis never felt any ill effects afterwards. The doctor being so close at hand when the thing occurred, probably saved his life; but the expedition had come to an end. The men looked more to their legs than their guns; and although a broad trail, showing where the enemy had dragged their women and children in rawhide boats, was before them, they turned tail and made the best of their way to dry land again. And a sweet-looking set they were, coming out of that swamp; besides the pickle they were in, not a man of the comp'ny, from the left'nant to the drummer-boy, but had his pants tied round Turkish fashion! So much for hunting Indians in the Everglades," added the sergeant, with a gloomy shake of his head. 
               "I thought poisonous snakes never went into the water." 
               "All a mistake, Bolls; I have seen a rattler in a lagoon half a mile from land." 
               "Swimming?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Where was that?" 
               "On the Hillsborough, where we were boating supplies for the army at Jupiter," continued the sergeant, again launching into a story. "We had encamped on a small prairie making into the lagoon, which was here lined with mangrove bushes, and had landed most of our traps, when, through the carelessness of some one, the grass took fire. It was a small matter at first, and the men laughed in fighting the flames, but they soon gained the mastery, forcing 'em to abandon everything and take to the boats, several getting burnt in the retreat. I was the last man in, a little rabbit, with its hair singed off, jumping in with me. Fortunately the wind changed before the fire reached the shore, or I don't know what would have been the consequences sequences, as one of the boats was loaded with ammunition, protected only by a 'paulin stretched over,-it was just touch and go. As it was, the change of wind drove the fire inland, and we could hear it all night, in the distance, roaring away, and see it careering through hummocks and swamps in a great circle, continually enlarging, with licking and upleaping tongues of flame, and dense columns of smoke, which at times obscured the view or, being swept away by the wind, would reveal a gorgeous rim of fire on the horizon." 
               "It must have been a grand sight." 
               "Magnificent! not the least beautiful part of it being the wreaths of smoke, of all colors of the rainbow, which detached themselves and floated away from the mass. The fire traveled north, lasting for many days, and shriveling up everything in its path. Talk of your Northern fires!-a prairie, a hummock, and a swamp on fire, with a a canebrake or two thrown in by way of kindling, will beat all the fires in the world. Animals and reptiles were burnt up or driven from their haunts by the one in question, and this is how we came to see the rattler in the lagoon." 
               "The fire had forced him into the water?" 
               "Precisely. We remained all night in the boats, and started at daylight, Left'nant P--, of the navy, leading. We had hardly got under way when I saw him fire at something in the water, and heard him sing out, 'Look out for that snake!' We made for the thing, whatever it was, and there sure enough was a rattler with head erect, eyes flashing, tongue quivering, and tail sticking up like a rudder, wriggling its way across the lagoon. It stopped when it saw us." 
               "How big was it?" 
               "I'm afraid to say, but it couldn't have been less than six feet in length and as much as four inches through the biggest part of its body. The water was about ten feet deep and clear as crystal, and we could see the snake's motions reflected in a great shadow on the bottom; perhaps the water magnified the size and it appeared larger than it was." 
               "Did he show fight?" 
               "You would have said so had you seen him erect and at bay. I had my sword in my hand and struck at him, but missed him, as we went past; and, having headway on, we left him astern." 
               "Did you notice him afterward?" 
               "We watched him making his way steadily across the lagoon, which was about a mile wide there. The men didn't care to engage such a rum customer, as the boat's sides were low in the water, and they feared the creature might jump in among 'em. The left'nant said he wanted the skin for leggings, but the boys said if he wanted the skin, he might kill the rattler himself." 
               "I wonder the Indians are not oftener bitten by snakes: they go into all sorts of places." 
               "They are bitten, but they have a plant which they chew and apply to the wounds. Nature provides remedies for the bites of reptiles, if you only know where to look for 'em." 
               "Does Bluesnake know of these remedies?" 
               "Of course he does; there are not many secrets in respect to animals that he doesn't know." 
               "Why do you not learn the secret from him?" 
               "That's it!" discontentedly answered the sergeant; "he never talks of such matters. I dare say, if I was bitten, he would doctor me, but nothing would induce him to tell where be gets his remedies." 
               "May be they are his own,-partly jugglery." 
               "No doubt, a good deal of hocus-pocus in it." 
                
               "Do they cure in all cases?" 
               "It's a rare thing to hear of an Indian dying of a snake-bite; the remedy always seems to be at hand." 
               "A horrid country to live in!" said Bolls, contemptuously looking around him. "I don't see what our people want of it, with its snakes and all." 
               "It is worthless, I think. The government is committing a great folly in insisting upon driving the Indians out of it." 
               "You seem to have changed your opinion about the Indians," said the recruit, with a smile. 
               "I was mistaken," frankly answered the sergeant. "I now believe that they will fight rather than leave,-but hark! do you hear that?" 
               "Yes; what can it be?" 
               "The cry of the whooping-crane." 
               "It sounded more like the blast of an old tin horn." 
               As Bolls spoke, the cry again rose distinct and near, the bushes were immediately thrust aside, and three Indians appeared in such close proximity to the startled soldiers that they could have touched them with their guns. Sergeant Atkins recognized the chief in one of the party. 
               "You have come sooner than you said," he cried, starting joyfully up. 
               Charley-Emathla pointed to his companions, and gruffly responded, "I found them waiting for me." 
               "But how did you get here?" continued the old soldier, in unaffected surprise,-"I didn't see you approaching, though I was watching for you all the time." 
               "The white man has no eyes in the woods." 
               "He does not see as you do, I grant, but he has eyes, nevertheless, and I shall always deem it a mystery how you came here without our seeing you." 
               Charley-Emathla made no reply to this remark, evidently thinking it not worth discussing, and the old soldier added, pointing to the newcomers, "Do they go with us?" 
                
               "Loche and Otee are my sons," replied the chief, throwing his rifle over his shoulder and turning to depart. 
               "Where do you lead us now?" 
               "To the Okee-fi-nokee." 
               "Why go there?" asked the old soldier, with natural hesitation. 
               "To hide." Forced to be content with this brief answer, the two blindly followed their leader, the warriors bringing up the rear and effacing their trail as they went along. The chief's course now was at right angles to the one which he had taken in the early morning, that is, in a due northerly line, parallel with the river. It led to a higher and drier part of the hummock, the trees gradually thinning out and finally disappearing altogether, as the party came to open ground, firm under foot, and covered with a growth of yellow, stunted bushes. 
               "Here at least he will halt and allow us to rest," thought the sergeant; but onward, onward, the livelong day, without pausing or looking back, strode Charley-Emathla, the grim executioner, apparently, of some terrible decree; and onward, onward followed the soldiers, wearied, disheartened, and ready to sink down. But their inexorable guide was before them, and forward they struggled through fields of saw-grass, over huge fungi and heaps of decayed vegetable matter, whose very putrescence produced new forms of life and tainted the air with their odor; onward past dead trees thrusting" up their skeleton limbs, stark white and ghastly; onward through pools covered with green scum, and sloughs swarming with reptile life,-where mephitic vapors danced and quivered in the sunlight, and misty shapes came out at dark and made a night of it; onward past the "lone tree," where a monstrous snake was lying coiled, watching the young of a crow which had built its nest in the top and was circling and cawing around it; onward past huge alligators basking and wallowing in the black mud, or disappearing in its slimy depths; onward through dense canebrakes, sluggish streams, and fields of mud, into a vast central basin, where the air grew chill and the mist rose, and the shadows lengthened as the sun sank low and then went down, like a great ball of fire, into the interminable swamp. 
               Our adventurers now found themselves in a place so different from anything they had hitherto seen that it may be well to describe it, as it is a common feature of Florida swamps, and particularly of the Everglades,-the largest of them all, stretching from Lake Okee-chobee on the east, to "The Big Cypress" on the west, and thence south to a rim of dry land, separating it from the ocean. 
               It was a great opening in the hummock, whose boundary could be traced in the distance by a dim line of trees. Tall grass covered this opening, save where fields of black mud, sloughs matted with green scum, and palmetto-trees, scattering, or growing in clumps of twos and more, diversified it. In the cabbage-like tops of these trees were huge nests of eagles, hawks, and crows, whose mingled cries of defiance and alarm at the appearance of intruders, added, if possible, to the strangeness of the scene. 
               But the most remarkable feature of this weird and dismal-looking place remains to be described. Toward the center of the opening, at a distance of several miles from the point where the party had entered it, was a group of trees and bushes which seemed by a freak of nature to have been cut out of the hummock and set down in the midst of the swamp. The group did not appear to cover over half a dozen acres of ground; but its dark-green foliage, in contrast with the yellow vegetation around, was inexpressibly sweet to the soldiers, at length almost exhausted hausted by their long-continued exertions in the swamp. Still a weary path yet lay to the group, now presenting it on their right, now on the left, and mocking them all the time as it were with the hope of soon reaching its coveted shade; it was full, too, of all sorts of reptiles gliding through the black mud and tangled brake before them. 
               The sergeant had "blasted his buttons" several times, and consigned Florida and all its inhabitants to the nether world; and was seriously considering the expediency of lying down and confessing his inability to proceed, when his drooping spirits were revived by the chief taking a final turn and leading the way to the group referred to. 
               The stars were shining, a dense mist covered the swamp, and innumerable noises arising therefrom could be heard far and near, as the party reached the place they had been longing to arrive at and disappeared within its gloomy recesses.
                     The adventure in the Everglades, the prairie on fire, and the encounter with a rattlesnake are strictly true, having been taken from the writer's note-book as they were jotted down at the time. The first of these anecdotes has already appeared in print.
                  
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               OSEOLA AGAIN TALKS TO ECHO-WILLA. 
               LEAVING Bluesnake under the watchful eyes of certain of the young men, Oseola bent his steps once more to the lodge of Echo-willa. He went to tell her of Itunwah's condition and the remedy; he would be submitted to the medicine-men, who, aided by his friends, would drive away the evil influence that now afflicted him. For this purpose Echo-willa and her children must be present at the ceremony, which, as usual, would take place in the grove. 
               The coming of the soldiers to the town and their subsequent escape, furnished matter for serious reflection to the chief as he went along. 
               What could be the meaning of it? There was something strange and inexplicable in the whole affair. 
               He could easily understand that they had come to the town in pursuit of Itunwah, detected, no doubt, as the murderer of the peddler; but their release, and the manner in which it had been effected, gave rise to grave suspicions. Evidently more than one of his own race had been concerned in it, and the question was, who were the guilty parties? 
               Bluesnake had been charged with the crime, whether justly or not, the morrow would decide; if it were proved upon him, come what might, he should surely die. 
               There, too, were Micco-nope and Charley-Emathla, known partisans of the peace-party. 
               Had they dared to aid or connive at the escape of the blue-jackets? 
               Were they traitors to the nation? 
               Oseola's brow grew dark as he asked himself these questions. Upon their solution would depend his future action in the premises. 
               On one thing, however, he was determined,-that neither Micco-nope nor Charley-Emathla should stand in the way of the realization of his cherished schemes. 
               To kill a chief, was to incur the hostility of his band; to kill the king, was to arouse the enmity of the nation. 
               No matter; traitors deserved no mercy at his hands, and, should he be able to convict either or both of perfidy, he would show them none. Whatever the consequences, he would slay them in the midst of their people, rather than suffer them to defeat the plans for which he had so long and so diligently labored. Meanwhile he would wait and watch events. 
               If playing a double game, they could not long deceive him; at any rate, the nation was with him; the war-dance was going on; every moment that now elapsed made it more and more difficult for the peace-party to prevail; and if the blue-jackets could only be recaptured and brought back, he would take care to see that they were immediately tortured and put to death, in such a formal manner as would irretrievably commit the people to a hostile policy. 
               Revolving these thoughts in his mind, Oseola reached a cross-path that led to the lodge. Pausing here, he beckoned to his side a young brave who had followed him, shadow-like, from the grove, and thus addressed him: "Where was Assin-noa when the blue-jackets ran away?" 
               "Going to the lodges." 
               "Did you follow the dogs?" 
               The youth nodded, adding apologetically, "But it was dark, and they ran like deer." 
               The chief smiled, and said, "Was my brother at the dance?" 
               "He took part in it," the other complacently answered. 
               "With whom?" 
               "Hola-Toochee." 
               Oseola gravely bent his head, and said, "Hola-Toochee is a great chief, and will show his braves how to strike their enemies. All who follow after him will become renowned. My brother's name is known. He is not a mocking-bird?" 
                
               "The white men are mocking-birds," said the young warrior, with a gesture of contempt. 
               "Momus-cha, it is true," returned Oseola, with another smile. Then, in a graver voice, "Does Assin-noa know what it is that burrows in the sand and keeps silent in its shell?" 
               "The gopher," quickly answered the other. 
               "Well, let the Gopher listen. He will go and tell the young men that warriors are following the blue-jackets, and they must not talk of the matter till they come back. Does my brother understand? Oseola wishes it." 
               Receiving a nod for answer, he added, "Go, then; the Gopher will be a great warrior." 
               A few minutes' walk brought Oseola to the lodge, and near by a fire, over which, in the chill night air, several nude children were cowering. Echo-willa, their mother, had risen at this early hour,-it was not yet day,-and was pounding corn in a hollow log, to make sofka, which, with a little koonta, and some dried venison, formed the material for the morning's meal of the family. 
               As Oseola approached and seated himself by the fire, the woman looked up for an instant, and then, without taking any further notice of his presence, became more than ever intent upon the occupation in which she was engaged. 
               She was not overpleased with the visit, and, to all appearance, was determined that no advances should come from her. The chief, on his part, evinced no desire to commence the "talk," but sat gazing steadily into the fire, whilst with his fingers he traced lines in the ashes beside him. 
               Opposite, on the other side of the blazing fagots, the group of young savages squatted, eyeing the intruder through their shaggy locks, and ready to scamper off at the first sign of a hostile purpose. 
               At last Oseola broached the subject he was thinking of by pointing at the children and saying in a low voice, "Plenty to eat?" 
               "They do not suffer," was the surly answer. 
               "There is food in Oseola's lodge." Then, after a pause, "There is food for Itunwah when he comes?" 
               No reply from the woman; only a more vehement pounding of the corn. 
               "He is very sick." 
               Still no response, but a fiercer beating of the corn,-she seemed to have an enemy under her mallet whom she was "punishing" severely. 
               "Does Echo-willa hear?". He now spoke in a tone the least degree stern and imperative. 
               The woman paused in her work, and looked steadily at her visitor for the first time. 
               "An evil spirit possesses Itunwah." 
               "What is that to Echo-willa?" she wearily asked. 
               "My sister is Itunwah's squaw." 
               The woman angrily shook her head. 
               "She lives in Itunwah's lodge." 
               "He has no lodge," was the scornful reply. 
               "The little ones are his." 
               She laughed bitterly. 
               "But this is trifling," sternly continued the chief. "Oseola comes to advise his sister, and she laughs; he sees nothing to laugh at; Itunwah is sick; will my sister listen?" 
               "Let him get well again!" cried the woman, furiously striking the corn and scattering it on all sides, and at the same time scattering the young ones, who, knowing from sad experience what to expect from their mother when in an angry mood, quickly scampered away. 
                
               For some moments Oseola, seemingly in no wise affected by this fierce outbreak on the part of the woman, remained quiet, gazing, as before, steadily into the fire. 
               He then started up, and abruptly beckoned to Echo-willa to cease her work, which she had again resumed. There was that in his manner now which would not brook crossing; so she ceased her pounding, and looked up with a half-submissive, half-defiant air. 
               Having thus secured her attention, the chief haughtily continued: "Oseola does not waste words; he has come to talk with Echo-willa." 
               "I do not want to talk," she replied, with quivering lips. 
               "My sister need not speak unless she pleases; but she must listen." 
               "Go on; Echo-willa hears," said the woman, with a more subdued air. 
               "Itunwah has come back sick,-the medicine-men must cure him." 
               "How?" 
               "By driving away the Evil One," 
               "So that he may drink fire-water again?" bitterly said the woman. 
               "No, he has given that up." 
               "How does Oseola know? Can he see into the heart?" 
               "Itunwah has promised it." 
               "He promised me, too," plaintively cried the woman. 
               "He will keep his promise this time." 
               Echo-willa hesitated a moment, and then said,- 
               "What does my brother wish me to do?" 
               "To receive Itunwah." 
               "Well, what else?" 
               "To help the medicine-men." 
               "I have no medicine," was the gloomy reply; "it is all gone from me." 
                
               "It will come back," encouragingly said the chief; "my sister's medicine is strong,-the Evil One will run away from it." 
               "Echo-willa will try," said the woman, resuming her work. "When Oseola sends, she will be ready with the little ones." 
               The chief bent his head in approval, and then turning, left the lodge. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               ABDUCTION OF LUSTE-HADJO. 
               LUSTE-HADJO'S lodge was on the river-bank, where he lived with his squaw Atulpe and his dog Withle, in that amiable relation which is so well expressed by the phrase, "agreeing to disagree." Not that there was any difficulty on the part of Luste-Hadjo and his four-footed friend toward each other; the feud was rather between the two and Atulpe,-and it was all Atulpe's fault. Luste-Hadjo was not a quarrelsome person, if you would let him have his own way; and, as for Withle, he was peaceable enough for a dog, provided you didn't tread on his toes. But, Atulpe! Well, it is no use mincing matters,-she was a firebrand, a lucifer-match, a torpedo; in short, warranted to explode, and blow up every one about her,-being no less a person than the grisly-bearded crone heretofore alluded to in the escape of the soldiers. Yes, a fierce and decided character was Atulpe, having it all her own way, domineering it over the lodge, and besides being something of a witch; that is, she could make the wind blow when it had fallen calm, could tell you at any moment, by looking you full in the eye, what your dead grandmother was doing at that very instant, dealt in philters and charms, sold her good will or the reverse on strings tied up in knots, had visions of persons and events, and, by virtue of these various accomplishments, was the oracle of all the old crones of the town, ruling Luste-Hadjo and his dog as with a rod of iron,-to wit, the former with any domestic utensil that happened to come handy, and the latter with water, hot or cold, according to circumstances. It was only necessary for Atulpe to glance at anything fit to hold water, and to hiss through her two solitary front teeth (which, being loose in the gum, enabled her to roll the S with a frightful sound), for Withle to drop his usually defiant tail between his legs, and to sneak ignominiously away to a fire, a short distance from the lodge, where he and his master lounged and slept without bodily fear, it being tacitly understood that the ground immediately around said fire was neutral territory. 
               Withle was an Indian dog, that is, half wolf, half dog. The breed is peculiar, being found only with savages, their mode of life having an irresistible attraction for it. Erect, triangular-shaped ears, sharp muzzle, coarse, thick hair, a wiry frame, a long, bushy tail, falling in a curve behind,-such is the appearance of the animal; and if to these items you add the further particulars, that the creature never gets out of your way, never looks you in the face, and never wags his tail like an honest dog, but shrinks into corners and eyes you askance, you will have a pretty correct picture of him as he is to be seen, either domesticated or in a wild state. 
               Having a keen nose and great endurance, the Indian dog runs down his prey silently and perseveringly, rarely failing to secure it. Like the bald eagle, he is an arrant robber, stealing what his betters catch; and so expert a thief is he, that a feud, warily waged on both sides, always exists between him and the squaws. United in a pack, the animal we are describing is a formidable antagonist of the panther and bear, but stands in salutary dread of the alligator and skunk, knowing instinctively that he has no chance in a contest with the former of these creatures, and by sad experience that victory over the latter is worse than defeat. 
               It is a striking peculiarity of this variety of the canine species that he never barks, but whines, howls, or growls. "The barking of a dog is an acquired faculty, an effort to speak, which he derives from his associations with man." This is not mere assertion. To say nothing of our own observation in the matter, the author of a little work, entitled "Things not Generally Known," says, "The Australian dog never barks." Gardner repeats the remark, applying it to all dogs in a state of nature; Sonnini observes the same thing of the shepherd's dogs in the wilds of Egypt, and Columbus found that the dogs which he had carried to America in a previous voyage, and left with the natives, had lost the propensity to bark. The author of "Wanderings in Southwestern Africa" remarks, "When struck, they (the dogs) merely shrug up their backs, open their jaws, grin in a ghastly manner, and, if the chastisement be continued, howl most piteously." 
               Withle, as we have said, was an Indian dog, with all the virtues as well as the vices of his breed, having been known to bring home a breakfast for his lazy old master and the ungrateful Atulpe, and not to touch it himself until the two had satisfied their hunger. 
               But it was as a watch-dog that he particularly excelled, Night was his favorite time; he was great in the dark,-his wolfish descent then stood him in good stead; his eyesight grew sharper, his hearing more acute, his nose keener, and he suffered nothing to come near him without at once detecting its presence and pouncing upon it, were it only a mouse in search of a grain of corn, or a blacksnake gliding noiselessly about the fire to warm itself in the ashes. 
               It is a short time before daylight. The night-sounds of the wilderness have ceased; there are day-sounds, too, but they have not yet begun. This interval of eloquent silence is particularly impressive in a tropical climate, where there are so many voices of the woods. It is the hour when night-loving animals retire to their holes, and the day-lovers are about to come out into light and life. Morning dawns slowly in the woods, slowly and imperceptibly, you know not exactly when; but animals know it, for presently a squirrel pokes his nose out of a hole, and, uttering a sharp "chick, chick!" shoots like a streak of light down one tree and half-way up another, where he remains, with upturned tail, glued to the bark. Bunny is a smuggler, but pirates are abroad, and he is watching to see if the coast is clear. 
               A shrill scream sounds in the forest, afar off. It is Mr. Hawk, who has just woke up, and is thinking of breakfast. Foolish hawk! for, apprised of his enemy's whereabouts, Bunny proceeds leisurely to secure a nut. 
               The whirr of a flock of ducks, in its flight to a feeding-ground in a distant lagoon, is heard overhead. Sensible ducks! "The early birds pick up the worms." 
               Frogs in a neighboring pond suddenly cease the croaking which they had kept up through the night. Cunning creatures! they are aware that light is at hand, and enemies are beginning to stir. Soon a faint streak appears in the sky,-it is the herald of a new day; the light comes on apace, "the stars pale their ineffectual fires," objects lose their vague appearance, dark places become visible, the mists gather and dissipate, the gray of the morning melts into warmer colors,-it is strangely and suddenly light. 
               A damp mist rolls up from the river and creeps about the fires, distorting objects, enveloping in its folds the sleeping forms of the tired squaws-most of the warriors being still engaged in the war-dance-and causing them mechanically to gather their blankets closer about them. Near one of the fires are Luste-Hadjo and his dog Withle, both seemingly buried in profound slumber. Observe now two prostrate figures close by upon the west bank. If the mist were not so dense, you would say that the figures in question were shifting their position, and drawing closer to the old warrior and his faithful companion than when you first noticed them; but this can hardly be so, for, as you look again, they seem to be quite motionless. Yet they surely have moved, for, when you renew your observations, they are certainly nearer, and still nearer, and now so near, that-see! although not the slightest suspicious sound is audible, the dog's instinct is aroused. Raising his head, he opens his mouth, and, gaping wide, revealing a huge red tongue and a row of formidable teeth, sits up before the fire. 
               But, besides having settled several difficulties of a personal character with his fellow "canines," which had been on hand for some time waiting adjustment, Withle has had a hard run of it yesterday, and, being very tired and sleepy, soon nods on his post. Once or twice he makes an effort to keep his eyes open, as if conscious that it was his especial duty just then to be on the alert, but fails each time. There is nothing, absolutely nothing, of an unusual nature stirring around him, and, yielding finally to an irresistible feeling of drowsiness, he sinks down to his first attitude; the nose still works, the muscles twitch, and the eyelids quiver, but the head remains prone between the forepaws,-he is fast losing consciousness. A sufficient time elapses for Withle to get fairly asleep, when the mysterious movement we have been trying to describe begins anew, and already the leading figure is close to the old warrior, who snores away in happy oblivion of passing events, when-whiz! the dog clears his master's body with a bound, and, alighting with catlike suppleness beyond, rushes open-mouthed at the intruder. 
               But, quick as thought, the latter has started to his knees and confronts his assailant. More cunning than the animal, he has made all his preparations beforehand, and, guarding his throat with his left arm carefully wrapped in a blanket, he deals the faithful creature as it approaches him a terrible blow with a large knife which he holds in his left hand. It settles the matter at once. No repetition of the stroke is needed. The poor brute crouches with a low whine, endeavors to bite the knife still sticking in his side, and with the effort yields up his life. 
               Withle disposed of, the rest of the work is plain sailing. The warriors seize upon their quarry, and holding him forcibly down, whisper in his ear that he is safe if he submits at once. Seeing the futility of resistance, Luste-Hadjo allows himself to be tied with strips of his own blanket. He is then carried to the water's edge and laid in a canoe which his captors have ready at hand, the dog's carcass being first thrown into the river. 
               The affair has been conducted with marvelous secrecy and dispatch,-not a syllable was uttered save the emphatic words to the old warrior, who finds himself in the canoe almost before he has realized that he is a prisoner. The neighboring sleepers are undisturbed. These warriors are experts in their way, and having effaced, as they thought, all signs of the struggle with the dog, the two enter the canoe and paddle with their astonished captive quickly to the other side of the river. Arrived there, they take him out and lay him on the bank, setting the canoe adrift with the current. Then, in spite of his protestations that he will not attempt to escape if his abductors will permit him to walk, they again lift him up, and disappear with him in the forest. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE PROPHET'S TEST. 
               A LIVE-OAK tree in the center of the plain, a grim circle with Micco-nope in the midst, Bluesnake leaning against the tree, conversing with two young warriors who are there apparently as his friends and backers, others grouped attentively around, the women and children seated decorously at the fires, the dogs discreetly absent,-such was the scene presented at sunrise of the morning succeeding the war-dance, the chiefs having met in council to investigate the charges preferred against Bluesnake by Itunwah and Luste-Hadjo. The guide was the central figure of the picture. He had found time to take a plunge into the river and to wash off all traces of the previous day's travel. His scalp-lock, bound with various-colored ribbons, stood triumphatly up; his long, black hair was combed behind the symmetrical ears, leaving his face in bold relief,-an antique medallion in a setting of jet. His hunting-shirt was new and of the gaudiest pattern, and his leggings and moccasins were unexceptionably clean,-the former fitting to a well-formed leg, the latter to beautifully small feet. The guide's bearing was calm and self-possessed possessed, as he looked up in the intervals of his talk with his companions, and returned the gaze of those around him with an unconcerned air, which the swelling of his chest and dilation of his nostrils, like a wild animal at bay, occasionally contradicted. And well might he be anxious. He stood charged with a crime which, if proven, might doom him to a cruel death. To all appearances free, he was in fact a prisoner. Argus-eyes had watched him all night, his slightest movements had been observed, and, aware of this, he had made no attempt to escape. Indeed, he had no desire to do so, for, besides the impossibility at the time, surrounded as he was by warriors, he was resolved not to be a fugitive from his people. A fugitive!-no; anything but flight. Death, rather than such disgrace,-torture, rather than such a confession of guilt. But why think of either? He had friends in the town; his accusers were disreputable characters whom no one ought to believe, and as for the squaws, it would go hard if he, a great warrior, could not afford to laugh at their chatterings. All at length being present, the warriors gravely attentive, a proper silence prevailing, Jumper, the orator of the nation, arose, and addressing Micco-nope (who sits with half-closed eyes, apparently in deep thought), desires to be informed why the council had been called together. 
               "Ask Oseola," replied Micco-nope, opening his eyes for a moment: "he knows." 
               "We have been at the dance all night, and are tired," continued Jumper, turning politely to the chief named. 
               "Blue-jackets came to the town and escaped from it," said the latter, without looking up from the contemplation of his moccasins, in which he appeared to be wholly occupied. 
               "Well?" 
                
               "Bluesnake, they say, assisted them." Oseola speaks with seeming reluctance. 
               "Who says so?" demanded Jumper, after a suitable pause, during which all eyes scrutinize the guide, who stands with folded arms, a slight smile parting his lips. 
               "Itunwah and Luste-Hadjo." 
               "Where are they?" asked the orator, looking around him in affected surprise. 
               "Itunwah is sick; Luste-Hadjo is here." 
               "It is well; we shall want him presently. Meanwhile my brother can tell us all about it." 
               "I did not see it all. Only the talk on the river-bank." 
               "Between whom?" 
               "Itunwah, Luste-Hadjo, and him." Oseola points significantly to the accused. 
               "What was the talk?" inquired Jumper, after another and longer pause. 
               "Luste-Hadjo said that Bluesnake had thrown dust into his eyes." 
               "And Bluesnake?" 
               "He said Luste-Hadjo was a mole." 
               "But Itunwah?" 
               "He spoke more plainly, but I do not want to repeat his words." 
               "My brother must tell the council." 
               "He said he saw a snake from Phowoka." 
               The eyes of all again seek the guide; this time with a menacing look. 
               "And what did Bluesnake answer to this?" 
               "He laughed, and called Itunwah the drunken dog of the pale-faces. Now, Itunwah frequents the settlements, and drinks fire-water," slowly added Oseola. "I do not like it; he goes with the white man,-I am sorry to say so, it is a bad example to the young men; but he is not a dog, and Bluesnake should not have called him one, for it made him angry and he acted foolishly. Let Luste-Hadjo speak." 
               Oseola had fairly stated the case, it must be confessed, "nothing extenuating, nor setting down aught in malice." 
               The accused smiled, the chiefs nodded their heads approvingly, and waited for the old warrior to come forward and show himself. But they waited in vain, and the silence was at length broken by a voice exclaiming, "Luste-Hadjo is not here!" 
               This announcement was received with grave displeasure, which would have been summarily visited upon the offender had he just then presented himself. To trifle with the council was a serious matter, and neither his rank nor services entitled him to do so with impunity. A runner was at once sent to look for the delinquent, all meanwhile talking over the charges brought against the guide. A difference of opinion as to the merits of the case soon became apparent, both in the council and among the spectators. It was by no means certain that Bluesnake was guilty, and even granting that he was, to discuss the question-so his friends argued-would only produce dissensions among themselves. The nation had just declared war against the powerful pale-faces,-war that would tax their united strength to the utmost, and to quarrel now would be acting like squaws. "My advice," said Micco-nope, yawning, "is to wrap our blankets about us and go to sleep." To which it was answered, that the very fact of the nation having declared war made it more incumbent on them all to be getting ready. Children might go to sleep, but warriors, at such a time, should have their eyes open: no doubt there were those who would like to shut them and keep them closed,-who were ready to kiss the white man's whip, whatever he might do; but how stood the case? blue-jackets had come to the town in pursuit of one of their own people,-Bluesnake, the prisoner, was charged with showing them the way. Luste-Hadjo, the only witness who could testify in the matter, was absent; he might be sick or unavoidably detained, a messenger had gone to look for him, and the least they could do would be to wait until it could be ascertained whether he was to be found or not. Philip was the principal speaker, and after commenting with a lawyer's shrewdness on the evidence and the conclusions to be deduced from it, said in substance: 
               "It was the understanding with the white man when they ceded him their lands, that he was not to come among them uninvited, or, at least, without giving them formal notice of his purpose. It was so put in the treaty, which had been signed by the head-men and deposited in the sacred lodge; and for pale-faces to intrude without so much as asking leave, showed that they were deceivers, and had no regard for the spirit of their word. Again, if the coming of the blue-jackets was a suspicious circumstance, what was to be thought of their escape? This, after all, was the important question. Every one knew they could not have, gotten away through their own unaided efforts. They would have been recaptured in less than an arrow's flight of the town if some one had not covered up their trail,-some one perhaps who is listening to me now. A traitor who deserves the knife!" continued Philip, looking sternly around him; "and until that's made plain, I for one am willing to wait." 
               "What Philip says is true, and nothing can be added to his talk," said Oseola, from his place; "he speaks with a straight tongue; I speak for Luste-Hadjo." 
               He then arose and detailed, in his usual graphic manner, the scene he had witnessed on the river-bank, following the flight of the blue-jackets,-the rage of the squaws, the presence of Bluesnake, and the accusations of Itunwah and Luste-Hadjo, not omitting, however, the reprehensible conduct of the former, which, while apologizing for, he took care to characterize in suitable terms. 
               "Bluesnake is a 'Seminole,' and must not be condemned unheard," he added. "His heart may be white and his words straight; I do not accuse him, but others talk and say bad things of him. Where there is smoke there is fire. Does water become muddy without cause? The rain falls when the clouds gather. Itunwah is sick and cannot come, but Luste-Hadjo will be here." 
               "Let him come! Bluesnake wants to see him." 
               This was an unfortunate speech. It was the guide's part to have remained absolutely silent and let things take their course, so long as no one appeared to testify against him; but he had spoken, and thus given Oseola the right to question him. The crafty chief at once improved it. 
               "My brother knows all about it,-let him speak." 
               "When all have spoken he will then talk," returned the, guide, instantly perceiving the drift of his questioner. 
               "Will he tell us how Luste-Hadjo's eyes were closed?" asked the chief, with a grim smile. 
               "A warrior does not say over his words." 
               "It is well," rejoined the chief, after a long and considerate pause, during which he eyed the accused. "No one can make my brother speak unless he pleases; but a Seminole when he sees his enemy does not creep into the bushes and hide." 
               "Bluesnake is not hiding," 
               "Words,-nothing but words," impatiently muttered the king. 
               "We have spoken," said Philip. 
               "Let us wait," said Alligator. 
               Others uttered like sentences in equally brief terms, when the messenger who had been sent to look for the old warrior returned and reported that he could not be found in the town, having last been seen at his fire on the river-bank. 
               "Did you go to the fire?" asked Micco-nope, now thoroughly awake. 
               "I looked at it, and saw blood on the ground," 
               The chiefs prick up their ears, the warriors press forward, and all closely eye the messenger. 
               "What more did Tole notice?" uneasily asked Micco-nope. 
               "A dog had been killed and thrown into the river." 
               "And Luste-Hadjo?" 
               "Was tied, and carried off in a canoe." 
               "Hola-wagus-cha! It is bad!" angrily exclaimed the king. "My children must find out who has done this thing." 
               "Tole will tell the council who carried off Luste-Hadjo," said Jumper. 
               "Young men from Emathla's town." 
               "How do you know?" 
               The messenger held up a crow-quill,-the badge of the band,-which doubtless one of the warriors had dropped in the encounter with the dog. A sensation among the chiefs, a nervous twitching of the prisoner's face, an anxious look with all, followed this disclosure. 
               "What says Bluesnake?" asked Micco-nope, turning earnestly to the accused. 
               "Nothing," was the brief reply. 
               "My son had better think; many things speak against him. Blue-jackets come to the town and are caught. They escape. How? Luste-Hadjo, who knows it, is gone,-carried off, it is said, by evil ones, in the dark. Cannot my son explain it?" 
                
               "Have my brothers all spoken?" asked the guide, looking round him. Perceiving that no one was inclined to make any further remarks, he turned to Micco-nope and said,- 
               "Why do you ask me of Luste-Hadjo? What have I to do with him? The snake and the frog do not hunt together,-they neither follow the same trail nor utter the same cry. Luste-Hadjo is gone, no one knows where. Bad men have killed his dog. Bluesnake is sorry; but must a warrior suffer because a dog has been killed? Isn't a warrior better than many dogs?" 
               "What says Bluesnake to Itunwah's words?" impatiently asked Oseola. 
               "The pale-faced squaw has drunk so much fire-water that he cannot see straight," scornfully replied the guide. 
               "He is sick now, crying like a pappoose, and I will not speak of him,-I speak of myself." 
               The guide drew himself proudly up, and continued,- 
               "I am a Seminole, and walk looking up at the sky, not down at the ground. The Great Spirit made me a red man,-my father taught me to be a warrior. I love my people, and do not want to leave them. I would die should I go where they are not. Is Bluesnake a deceiver? Will any one say that? Were I to declare that Coa-Coochee, son of Philip, is a double-tongue, would any one believe me?" 
               Micco-nope emphatically shook his head. 
               "I ask Halpatter-Hadjo?" 
               The chief appealed to smiled. 
               "The Alligator laughs. I ask Holattar-Micco?" 
               "Bluesnake puts a foolish question." 
               "I ask Apiaca?" 
               "He would say that Bluesnake speaks from the teeth outward " 
               "I ask any one here?" continued the guide, turning to the warriors around him. "Should Bluesnake say that it was Oseola who did this thing, would any one believe him?" 
               "No!" cried several 
               "Nor does he believe it,"-the speaker inclined his head courteously to the individual named. "The Black Drink is a great chief and 'Talker.' His words kindle a flame in our hearts, and he does with us as he pleases. Every one listens to his words, and he,-he listens to Itunwah, and bends a willing ear to Luste-Hadjo,-the panther listening to the crow, the fox listening to the frog! Is this right, or worthy a Seminole? Bluesnake is only a warrior, but his heart is as warm, his blood as red, and his words are as straight as the Black Drink's. Now see how simple a story will lay aside his talk." 
               "That is what we are waiting to hear," said Oseola, who had steadily eyed the speaker. 
               The latter resumed: "Did Bluesnake guide the palefaces? No! Did he know that they had come to the town? Again, no! Where had he himself been? He had gone to Phowoka to buy powder, and upon the home-trail, near Okee-Humkee hummock, he heard a voice in a thicket, crying, 'Bluesnake! Bluesnake!'" 
               "Whose was it?" asked Micco-nope. 
               "It was getting dark, and I was afraid, at first, to enter the thicket, for evil ones might be there; but again hearing the voice, I drew my knife and ventured in." 
               "What did you see?" 
               "My cousin,-the great snake," gravely replied the guide. 
               "What did he want?" 
               "He had swallowed a gopher, which stuck in his throat. So I went and gathered grass and gave it to him, and he got well." 
                
               A huge savage, who had listened open-mouthed to this extraordinary narrative, now thought proper to speak. Holding up a wolf's skin attached to his girdle, he cried in a loud voice,- 
               "Who says Yaha-Hadjo
                     Literally, "Crazy Wolf."
                   is a crooked one? Who doubts his word? The wolf once fell into a trap dug by dogs of pale-faces; Yaha-Hadjo took him out and carried him to his lodge." 
               Bluesnake acknowledged this testimony in a proper manner, and continued,- 
               "The shadows of the trees were lengthening in the woods as I took the trail and traveled till the frogs croaked. I then stopped and rested, for I said, 'The dance begins at daylight, the town is still a day off, and I cannot be there in time;' so I slept, and started with the sun, and am here. I came straight and alone. I entered the town as I am. I walked in,-I didn't creep in. Tuste-Nuggee saw me, Coa-Hadjo saw me, but why should I say more?" 
               "It is enough," exclaimed Micco-nope, rising. 
               "I see no reason for continuing this talk," said Holatoochee, also, getting up. 
               "It is all smoke," said Coa-Coochee, laughing. 
               "I still say wait!" interposed Philip. 
               "Bluesnake's words are straight," cried the warriors. 
               "Cut his ears off!" exclaimed a ferocious savage, shaking his fist at the prisoner; and a quarrel between those for and against him seemed to be imminent, when a piercing cry was heard, and an old woman, followed by several others screaming in chorus, was seen forcing her way through the crowd. Gaining the circle of chiefs, Atulpe (for it was she) drew herself up to the full height of four feet six in her moccasins, and, sticking one arm a-kimbo; pointed at Bluesnake a long, skinny finger, bent like a fish hook, the nail sharp and shining, and cried, in whimpering tones, "Where is Luste-Hadjo, snake? my darling little See-in-the-dark; what have you done with him?" Then, raising her voice to a shriek, she added, "Answer me, or I'll tear your eyes out!" And, inspired by this thought, she flew at her laughing enemy, and might have made good her threat if she had not been caught and firmly held by the warriors, screaming all the while like a wounded hawk. Atulpe was an actress in her way,-she was great in the pathetic, and had a genius for groans; but she failed in the part of a bereaved wife. The relations existing between herself and Luste-Hadjo were too well known for the warriors to be deceived by shrieks, however loudly uttered; so the more she screamed the tighter they held her, until, completely exhausted, she surrendered at discretion, and allowed herself to be led away to her lodge, denouncing Bluesnake at every step as "a frog and a crow!" There is a comic side to tragedy as there is a tragic side to comedy. The chiefs laughed, and even Oseola condescended to smile, as all rose to their feet, A piaca pithily observing, as he took his walking-stick, that "No one accused Bluesnake--" 
               "But Atulpe," facetiously returned a warrior. 
               "Atulpe is a mocking-bird," contemptuously answered the old chief. "She is not worth talking about; Bluesnake is free to do as he pleases, but if he would appear white,"-here the speaker repeatedly nodded,-"let him demand the Prophet's Test." 
               "I object!" cried a warrior." 
               "And I," said another. 
               "You have no right to subject him to such a trial," said still another. 
                
               "No matter, I demand the test," firmly uttered the guide. 
               Every Indian tribe, as we have before stated, has its medicine-men or conjurers, who claim the faculty, among other supernatural gifts, of reading the mind of any one subjected to their scrutiny. The subjection of a person to this process is termed the "Prophet's Test." The Seminoles have a variety of ceremonies preparatory to the formal examination of a culprit,-dancing, fasting, burning of roots, and fashioning of little wooden figures to represent the accused. But, on special occasions like the present, the head-conjurer or prophet could dispense with preliminary forms and make the examination at once. In either case, he had enormous power in his hands, and instances are by no means rare of its having been remorselessly used. There was this check, however, on the prophet,-he was a demagogue as well as conjurer, and, to use a vulgar phrase, "knew on which side his bread was buttered." He generally sided with the majority, or else, like the Delphic oracle, took refuge in enigmas. 
               Bluesnake was well aware of the frightful risk he was running,-that in accepting Apiaca's insidious proposition he was placing his life in the hands of a charlatan who could pronounce him innocent or guilty at pleasure; but his pride was aroused, and he knew that he had friends among the chiefs and warriors who would see justice done him. At all events, he had sought the test, and must now stand the ordeal. 
               Approaching the accused, the prophet first endeavored to stare him out of countenance, but failing in this-the guide's face remaining calm and unmoved-he turned to the warriors and declared that he saw nothing bad in Bluesnake. He then took a handful of sand and threw it in the air, going down on his hands and knees and examining the ground where it fell. Rising, he said, "I see what the trouble is,-a dark one has come among us from the settlements." 
               "For what purpose?" asked a warrior. 
               "To stir up evil thoughts.' 
               "Where is he?" 
               "Whispering in Oseola's ear!" 
               All drew away from the infected one, who scornfully smiled. 
               "But Bluesnake!" cried the crowd. 
               "Bluesnake is innocent," said the prophet, resuming his hunting-shirt, which he had thrown off in anticipation of a tussle with the Evil One. 
               The warriors gather around the now acquitted Indian and offer their congratulations, but, heedless of all, he draws himself proudly up, and points to the distant woods. "I will be there till the shadows go!" he cried,-"if any one seeks, he will find me." Then, no longer able to restrain his exultation, he tosses his arms in the air, bursts into a wild yell, and, breaking from the assemblage, goes bounding away, followed by his friends yelling in chorus. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE MEDICINE-MEN HAVE A BOUT WITH THE EVIL ONE. 
               WHILST the chiefs are trying Bluesnake in the town, an extraordinary scene is being enacted in the grove, the conjurers having remained there to perform the ceremony of expelling the dark influence from the body of the crazy Itunwah. For this purpose he has been brought to the entrance by some of his friends, and is met by the conjurers, who, in two adverse parties, commence a furious struggle over him, the object of which appears to be to get possession of his person. His bearers do not wait to see the result, but turn on their heels and flee for their lives; Itunwah is now entirely abandoned to the medicine-men. One party strives to take him away, the other to carry him into the grove, and, between the two, the poor fellow is dragged hither and thither, as one or the other side prevails. At last, after a severe contest, the grove party is victorious, and with many queer capers, grunts, and a volley of exultant whoops, escorts its prize to a fire burning before the lodge, at which the friends and family of the sick man are assembled, the head-conjurer, arrayed in all the terrors of his mystical profession, being seated in the midst of them. A vertical streak down his forehead and nose, and curved lines from the corners of his mouth to the lobe of each ear, divide his face into three parts, two of which are painted white and black, and the third, being the lower portion, a bright red. The white is speckled with black, and the black with white, and the whole has the appearance of some horrible disease of the skin. Rattles of the rattlesnake are around his neck, cock-spur bracelets on his wrists, and bear's paws, alternating with the hawk's beak and talons, upon his breast. His scalp-lock is enveloped in the sable plumage of the crow, mingled with the scarlet pinfeathers of the flamingo. Huge eagle-wings are attached to his back, spread as if for flight. The rest of his strange "get up" consists of a hunting-shirt, trimmed with strips of red and blue flannel, scarlet cloth leggings, handsomely embroidered in white with quaint figures of birds and reptiles, and moccasins of black buckskin, elaborately ornamented with beads. He beats a drum and sings incessantly. Depositing the sick man at the fire, two of the conjurers guard him lest he should escape. The "possessed" at such times are very cunning, and will get away if the eyes of their keepers are off them for an instant. Sneezer-Thlocco, brother of Hallac-Tustenuggee, had escaped only a few moons before, and had not been heard of subsequently; the case was well authenticated, and a sharp watch was always kept afterward over parties from whom the Evil One was to be exorcised. 
               The defeated conjurers meanwhile have not been idle. To be deprived of their prey at the instant of expected enjoyment, was like snatching food from beneath the jaws of a famished animal. They threaten and taunt, but finding this of no avail, they resort to vile abuse. "Huppe, soole, suk-bulbar!"
                     Owl, buzzard, bat-the latter is a bird of ill omen with Indians. "The Sioux language contains only one word which can be considered insulting. This word expressed the wish that the person or thing may become ugly."-Western Missions and Missionaries, by Father De Smet.
                   are not complimentary names with Indians. But the victorious party seem indifferent; they heed the abuse as little as they did the bluster, and, furious at this contemptuous treatment of their claims, the baffled conjurers unite forces and renew the attack. Again they are foiled; for the medicine-men have formed a circle around the sick man,-a charmed circle, which the beaten party vainly endeavor to reach. They tug and grunt; their bodies lean forward whilst their feet refuse to advance; they act as if breasting a tornado, but all to no purpose. An invisible power seems to hold them back, now swaying them to the right, now to the left, then to the rear, until, exhausted by their efforts, they turn about and flee into the hummock. They escape only in time. The victorious party pursue, belaboring the trees and bushes with sticks,-anything at hand,-as a signal example of what the Evil One would have suffered had he possessed the courage to remain. But he is gone, and the victors, wildly whooping and singing a triumphant song, the burden of which is their own bravery and the cowardice of their foes, return to the grove. Ranging themselves here under a leader, who had been previously selected, the head-man remaining seated, an continuing to beat his drum and boast loudly of his medicine,-the conjurers commence a dance round the invalid, who, in a state of seeming apathy, lies wrapped in his blanket. The dance, which began slowly, gradually increases in rapidity. It was first a walk, then a shuffle, then a jump; now it is a gliding movement, weirdlike and rapid, a wild and bewildering performance, in which the grotesque and hideous are curiously blended together. But such a movement cannot last; it is beyond the endurance even of Indians. The dancers commence to tremble and breathe hard, their limbs twitch, an unnatural pallor comes into their faces, and the sweat pours from them in streams,-still, though more slowly, they whirl about and sing in a monotonous voice the "ya, ya, hi, hi, ho, ho!" of their leader. 
                
               At length one of the dancers, apparently exhausted, or perhaps the prophetic mood is upon him, falls down in a seeming swoon. His companions at once proceed to bind him hand and foot. They then carry him to the lodge, thrust him rudely in like a bundle of old clothes, end shut the door; thereupon a medley of noises is heard inside. It seems as if a hundred sledgehammers were at work, and voices talking between whiles. The principal conjurer now rises, and, taking in his hands a couple of sticks, approaches the lodge and questions the oracle, whereupon everything becomes quiet. 
               There are certain animals which Indians, as the reader knows from a previous part of this story, regard with veneration, whose names they adopt, and whose habits, to some extent, they imitate; and there are others of the brute creation which they hold in utter contempt. Of the first class are the ferocious, strong, poisonous, and cunning; of the second, the weak, harmless, or beautiful. Among the former, therefore, desirable names are sought. The same holds true as to inanimate objects in nature. Whatever is grand or terrible is ardently admired, while, on the contrary, the pleasing or picturesque are noticed only in derision. 
               The Indian sneers at the exhibition of sensibility or suffering, but earnestly delights in the ferocity of the hawk or the treacherous and subtle characteristics of the snake. "Fawn," "Dove," and "Mocking-Bird" are good enough names for children, and "Prairie-Flower," "Bounding Deer," or "Laughing-Water," for squaws; but a warrior, must have an appellation suited to his dignity and deeds,-the more high-sounding the better. The bear, alligator, wild-cat, beaver, eagle, whirlwind, storm-cloud, rapids, etc., are therefore names highly appreciated, and they are almost invariably qualified by such adjectives as strong, crafty, swift, etc., in order to make them the more fear-inspiring.
                     We once knew an Indian who rejoiced in the name of Fuste-Luste-Hadjo, or "Crazy Black-dirt," and another named "Crazy Potato;" but both were degenerate savages, who had no conception of the dignity of a name.
                  
                
               Both of the classes of animals above alluded to have a leader,-a sort of supernatural superior,-who bears the same relation to the rest of his species as a head-chief does to his tribe. He is called the "Micco," or "Go-before," and, on all important occasions, is invoked and consulted by the medicine-men, who have the power of summoning him at will. It makes no difference where he happens to be, whether in the air, earth, or water, or how far off, he will come and answer questions, under certain conditions. The "Micco," then, is a deity to the Indian, and the one who responds to the call of a conjurer indicates the power of his medicine; that is, a stronger medicine is required to summon the "Micco" of the bear than the superior of the owl or bat, and a still stronger medicine is necessary to invoke the chief eagle or snake. 
               On important occasions a congress of "Miccos" is convened; in difficult cases two and even three may be called up, but usually only one is summoned. The medicine must be exceedingly powerful to assemble three. When all are to be convened, the conjurers have a time of it. They must fast, mutilate themselves, and smoke incessantly, for a moon, not speaking to a soul during the whole period. One of their number is sometimes sewn up in skins, and left in a solitary spot in the wilderness, where he runs the risk of being devoured by wild beasts, or of starving to death. The Prophet himself must participate in the ceremony, and the assistance of the women even (to whom, however, James I. awarded a pre-eminence in such matters) is not despised. The Prairie Indians call these imaginary beings Monedos; the Seminoles, as we have stated, "Miccos,"-their Pantheon embraces all animals. But to return. 
               The conjurer questions the oracle. 
               "What is it, Micco? Why this clatter?" 
               The noise ceases; no reply breaks the silence. 
               "Speak, then, Micco!" the conjurer at length exclaims. 
               Yet no answer. The silence is profound. A minute before, and it seemed as if the devil himself was beating the "long roll" inside the lodge; now you can hear the leaves rustle, everything is so still. 
               "What is the matter, crony?" cries the conjurer, vigorously shaking his sticks, whilst his coadjutors emulously dance and sing. 
               A shuffling sound in response. 
               "Oh, then! I know what it is!" exclaims the conjurer, with sudden inspiration. 
               "What is 't?" demands a voice, which must be the alligator's, for it rumbles as if coming out of a very wide throat. 
               "We haven't given you a present." 
               A snort issues from the lodge, as if to say, "Have you just found that out?" 
               "We will make it all right, my friend; little mother here has a blanket for you." 
               Another snort, which evidently means, "What does a blanket amount to?" 
               "'Tis not much; but, listen, there is a string of beads." 
               "Don't like beads!" cries the voice, making a noise not unlike a growl. 
               "Well, greedy one, some succula."
                     Sugar.
                  
                
               "I have come a long ways off!" 
                
               "You have no conscience, Micco!" plaintively cries the conjurer. "We are very poor." 
               "Then I'll go!" huffishly answers the voice. 
               "Stop!" pleads the conjurer. "Little mother here will put some tobacco in the trees for my brother to smoke whilst looking at the stars." 
               "Good!" with an emphatic rap. "What else?" 
               "The young men shall make a feast." 
               "It is well," says the voice, in as soft a tone as an alligator can be supposed to speak; "we will help little mother,-me and the Gopher.?" 
               "Where is the Gopher?" 
               "He will be here presently; meanwhile my brother can beat his drum and sing a good song." 
               The drums accordingly are beaten, whilst all, including the friends of the sick man, sing. A loud rap is then heard in the lodge, and the voice announces that the Gopher has come, and now "Old Talk-a-heap can ask his questions, only he must be quick, as the medicine is not strong enough to hold them long." 
               "What is the matter with the sick one?" asks the conjurer, nowise affronted by the Alligator's familiarity. 
               "He has taken an evil spirit into his belly." 
               "What sort of a spirit?" 
               "The red man calls it fire-water, the white man whisky." 
               "Ay! yi!" ejaculates the woman. 
               "If little mother speaks, I won't be answerable for the consequences!" exclaims the conjurer, frowning. 
               "Well, crony, has it any other name?" 
               "With the pale-faces, many." 
               "How are we to get rid of it?" 
               "Beat your drum, and let all sing." 
               Whereupon the noise is renewed. It seems as if all the animals in creation were howling, snorting, and stamping within the lodge. Quiet again ensues, a single rap is heard on the door, which opens, and the conjurer, who had been put in, presents himself unbound, and announces that he has just returned from the spirit-land, where he had gone with the Alligator and Gopher, and been introduced to all the Miccos, who had treated him with special consideration. He could stay for a short time only, and the Eagle, as a special mark of favor, had given him this on leaving. The conjurer here exhibits a small ball of white hair, "which," said he, "comes from the Great Buffalo, beyond the Big Drink, where there are no trees, and the grass grows short,-where the sun shines hot, and at night you can see the place you left in the morning. And if my brothers will stand around and look I will show them how to use it." The conjurer here approaches the sick man, and, stooping over him, makes several passes as if he were shoveling a vast deal of sand out of the way, uttering the while the hissing noise peculiar to grooms in rubbing down a horse. And, strange as it may appear, the patient really seems to be benefited by the mummery, for he opens his eyes, and, with a peevishness which is a sure sign of convalescence, stares about him and demands to know what all this stir is about. 
               "Can my brother get up?" soothingly asks the conjurer. 
               "Of course I can," replies Itunwah, rising. 
               "He is cured," said the conjurer, turning complacently to the woman. "A friend will go with little mother to her lodge, and beat his drum, lest the Evil One should come back. Itunwah will remain here for the present, as it is necessary for him to breathe the medicine longer." 
               The conjurer then bids his colleagues to put up their implements and scatter the fire, lest the evil influence should use it and make more mischief. He then invites them all to a feast, given by little mother, at which the Alligator will be present by special favor, and if, through unforeseen circumstances, Halpattar cannot attend, he, the conjurer would designate one of the party there present to eat for him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               PINEY ISLAND. 
               THE soldiers were utterly fagged out when they reached the island and followed their leader into its dreary depths. The path over which they had just passed was frightful enough, but that which now lay before them, shrouded in gloom and resounding with mysterious noises, was even more so. A mass of trees and bushes was all they could see, until they emerged into a spot where, in the faint light that found its way through the interlacing foliage overhead, there appeared to be an opening in the thicket. Charley-Emathla paused here, and again spoke: "The blue-jackets can rest." 
               "Is the thing at an end?" ruefully asked the sergeant. 
               "Yes." 
               The old soldier drew a sigh of relief. It was now a matter of utter indifference to him where he was, if he only might lie down for awhile and obtain that repose which his exhausted frame so much needed. Bolls' plight was just as bad. Dropping their guns, therefore, the two threw themselves on some palmetto leaves that chanced to be underfoot, and were soon oblivious of everything around them. One of the Indians, meanwhile, struck a light and built a fire from the abundant material at hand. Its cheerful ful blaze soon illuminated the place, showing it to be an old camp in the heart of the thicket. How the party got there was not apparent, for no path was visible, the place being entirely surrounded by a dense mass of bushes, out of which grew great trees, whose interlacing branches formed a canopy overhead. Nothing more secluded could be imagined; the very birds that flew past might be ignorant of its being there, so cunningly was it concealed. 
               The Indians, however, seemed to be at home, for as soon as they had taken off their moccasins, and hung them on sticks to dry before the fire, one of the young men proceeded to a tree and took down from a large limb a fine venison ham which, with several others, sewed up for preservation in their own skins, was dangling in the air; and cutting off some huge slices, he laid them on the coals to broil. His companion, at the same time digging under the root of a scrub palmetto, lying like a great snake along the ground, until he reached a good-sized hole that had previously been made (called by hunters a "cache"), drew forth in succession an old tin coffeepot, two or three cups, a small bag of salt enveloped in bark, one of sofka, another of koonta, and lastly, several wooden spoons, or paddles. Filling the coffeepot with water from a spring on the edge of the thicket, the warrior threw in a handful of koonta, and placed it on the fire. These simple preparations for the refreshment of the inner man completed, the party disembarrassed themselves of their trappings, having first carefully arranged under cover, to protect them from the dew, their own arms and those of the slumbering soldiers. Each then gathered a quantity of wood as his contribution of fuel for the night, the father working equally with the sons; and everything being thus set in order, the three seated themselves by the fire and indulged in the following pithy colloquy: 
                
               "The white men sleep strong." 
               "Hah! like gophers." 
               "If I had my way they would never wake up." 
               "That's my notion, too." 
               "What prevents us now from taking their scalps?" 
               "I'm ready." 
               "Stop that talk,-you sha'n't touch a hair." 
               A laugh. 
               "Father, why do you care?" 
               "That's my business." 
               "They are more your enemies than ours." 
               "That's no business of yours." 
               "They are pale-faces and double-tongues, and come to take your land." 
               "I promised to save them." 
               "They are dogs and robbers!" 
               "I smoked with Bluesnake." 
               "Suppose he does not come to meet you: what, then, will you do?" 
               "I will go to meet him." 
               "Where will you put the blue-jackets in the mean time?" 
               "Leave them here." 
               "And let them into the secrets of the camp?" 
               "No matter, they are more anxious to get away from it than we are to keep them; they have had their bellyful of swamp." 
               "But, suppose the chiefs should hold fast to Bluesnake?" 
               "Then I shall take the blue-jackets to Fort King." 
               "I have nothing more to say; only if Oseola hears of this business he will kill you." 
               "If I don't kill him first. But enough of this talk; it has gone far enough. Wake up the white men and give them to eat." 
                
               The soldiers were accordingly aroused and invited, by signs, to help themselves; an invitation which they were not slow to accept, as they had fasted for more than twenty-four hours, and were ravenously hungry. Sergeant Atkins now ventured to question the chief, whose manner, since he had eaten, had become much more gracious, a peculiarity-if the old proverb is to be believed-by no means confined to an Indian. Where were they? Why had the chief conducted them to this singular place? When could they hope to leave it? Where was Bluesnake? Would he soon join them? Why not proceed at once to Fort King? These were some of the questions which were jostling each other in the old soldier's pericranium. 
               "I should like to know in what neighborhood we are?" he began, taking a bite of his steak. 
               "I have already told you,-the Okee-fi-nokee," replied the chief, with his mouth likewise full. 
               "A jaw-breaker; but what do you call this place?" 
               "Piney Island this, Alachua that." The chief pointed to the swamp as he named the latter place. 
               "I have heard of it before. Who does the island belong to?" 
               "Me," replied Charley-Emathla, touching himself on the breast. "My people have always lived here." 
               "Has it ever been visited by the white man?" 
               The chief emphatically shook his head, adding, "He can't find the way, and I will not show him." 
               "Suppose he should attempt to come here?" 
               "The alligators and snakes would eat him," replied the chief, with a grim smile. 
               "I should think so," said the sergeant, wincing. "I thought I had some idea of swamps, but this one beats all I ever dreamed of. I don't understand, though, why you should call it Piney Island." 
                
               "Big pines on it." 
               "I see none," said the sergeant, looking up; "they must be at the other end. Well, Charley, how long do you expect to keep us here?" 
               "Don't know," replied the Indian, with a yawn. 
               "For whom do we wait?" 
               "Bluesnake." 
               "Did he promise to join you?" 
               "Yes." 
               "When?" 
               "After the chiefs had done with him." 
               "What have the chiefs to do with Bluesnake?" 
               "They will try him for guiding you to the town." 
               "It is all my fault, and I can't do anything to help him," said the sergeant, strongly excited by the intelligence. 
               "Suppose they find him guilty?" 
               "They will kill him," replied the Indian, cutting off a huge piece of meat, and eating it raw. 
               "I hope not, warrior; I shall never forgive myself if harm befalls the boy." 
               "He had no business to guide you to the town; it has made bad blood," said Charley-Emathla, turning away, and speaking in a low voice to his sons, who thereupon took their arms and vanished into the darkness. Then replenishing the fire, as the night air was chilly, he wrapped his head in his hunting-shirt, and, stretching himself out, without further ceremony, was soon buried in profound slumber. 
               The soldiers sat up for awhile, talking over "the situation," the sergeant first bitterly reproaching himself to Bolls for having, by his rashness, forced Bluesnake into his present dangerous position, avowing his fixed determination fully to avenge him should he be put to death. From whatever point of view he regarded the prospect before them, it was, in truth, gloomy enough, since it was evident that they were completely in Charley-Emathla's power. Never mouse was more securely in the clutches of a cat, and it was for him to say whether they should escape or miserably perish. It was doubtful, too, if something wouldn't happen to prevent Bluesnake from joining them, and, in that case, what were they to do,-whither go? Should they wait there an indefinite time, or venture, without guide, into that dismal swamp? And, again, what if the chief had determined to play them false, how were they to find it out ere it would be too late? 
               Taken altogether, the predicament was certainly not a pleasant one to think of, and less sanguine tempers than theirs might well be excused for entertaining fears as to the final result. 
               "I guess we shall get out of the scrape, though," said the recruit, trying to take a hopeful view of the case. 
               "I trust so," replied the sergeant, stretching himself on the ground. 
               Bolls followed his example, and, in spite of care and dark foreboding, and notwithstanding their dreary surroundings, the two were soon snoring away in concert with the Indian. 
               Reader, have you ever slept by a fire in the open woods, after a day of toil? If not, we advise you to try the experiment, and learn that the downiest couch is not always the sweetest. The fragrant night air, the low crackling of the burning brush, the flitting of fantastic shadows, the soothing monotony of the shrill-voiced cricket, the occasional hoot of the lonely owl resounding dismally through the treetops, and intensifying the solemn stillness of the scene,-these are influences that bring a repose which the recumbent on the couch of luxury sighs for in vain. 
               Charley-Emathla roused the sleepers at daylight, and said that it was necessary for their safety he should leave them for the present; bad Indians were about, watching with sharp eyes, and, should they attempt to leave their present quarters in the swamp, they would inevitably be pursued and captured. He himself could manage to get away, but they must be content to remain there for awhile; they might rest assured, however, that he would return and conduct them, as he had promised, in safety to the fort. 
               "How long will you be gone?" asked the sergeant, sitting up and sniffing the air, fragrant with the odor of roast meat, which the young men, who had returned from their outlying picket during the night, were cooking. 
               "Don't know." The chief had again frozen up. 
               "Why do you now leave us?" anxiously asked the sergeant. 
               "I go to find Bluesnake." 
               "Well," returned the old soldier, after a moment's consideration, "you are commanding officer, and we are your subordinates; but tell me one thing (the chief looked up inquiringly), is there any chance of the enemy-I mean the Indians-coming here? Not that I'm afraid," added he, proudly, "but we have cunning ones to deal with, and it is well enough to know." 
               Charley-Emathla reflected for a moment, and then said, decisively, "They will come." 
               "How are we to detect their presence ere it is too late?" 
               "Friends will come in the light, enemies at dark; friends will come walking, enemies creeping like snakes. Night is the dangerous time,-darkness covers everything, and it is hard, then, to distinguish between the floating mist and a man. Indians hear well, and see well, and will take advantage of both. Does the white man know this cry?" And the chief uttered the prolonged, wailing scream of the fish-hawk, when set upon by the eagle, and forced to drop its prey. 
               "I have heard it down the coast of Florida," said the veteran, starting, whilst the recruit grasped his gun, and the young men laughed outright. 
               The chief smiled and added: "If there are many Indians on the trail the blue-jackets will hear the cry twice; if few, only once." 
               "What will be the signal if friends are near?" 
               "You will hear the whooping of the Watula, the Sandy Hill crane; but the blue-jackets must be careful not to leave cover; their enemies will try many ways to draw them out." 
               "Will they be able to approach the island without our knowing it?" 
               "Not if you keep your eyes and ears open." 
               "Is there any place where we can look out?" 
               "That tree," the chief pointed to a magnolia on the edge of a thicket, adding, "It is on the highest ground, and you can see from it a great ways off; but you must not use it much; Indians have sharp eyes." 
               "I guess we will be wary enough; but how about a fire?" 
               "You can have a fire at night but not by day. Smoke is a chatterer." 
               Charley-Emathla then showed the sergeant a path which, if carefully followed, and he did not use force in thrusting aside the bushes, would lead him all over the island. He also pointed out the spring on the edge of the thicket, the venison hams, the bag of salt, the one of koonta, several palmetto cabbages, and finally, two fat gophers, which the young men had found time to capture and bring in from their picket. 
                
               "Enough and to spare," said the sergeant, after inspecting the larder ready prepared to his hand; "and now, Charley, before going, let me thank you for what you have already done for us; only don't keep us here too long, as we are anxious to be on the home trail. I shall count the minutes until you return," 
               "The white man must wait patiently," said the chief, in a grave, yet kindly, tone of voice. 
               "We defer to your orders, my friend; but suppose the enemy should gain the island in your absence and attack us?" 
               "Fight 'em." 
               "Can we count on help?" 
               The chief nodded. 
               "In what manner?" 
               "You must wait and see; Charley-Emathla is the white man's friend,-he has been good to Charley, Charley will be good to him!" And with this laconic summing up of his moral obligations to the pale-face, the chief took his departure with his sons, in a different direction, as it seemed to the old soldier, from that in which he had approached the island. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               GOPHER HOLE. 
               COOKING and eating breakfast, and clearing away things, or, as the sergeant expressed it, "policing the shanty," occupied the soldiers for awhile after Charley-Emathla had gone; but having finally gotten through with all these matters, even to the turning of the palmetto leaves and covering up of the fire, in accordance with his advice, and having exhausted all other modes of employing their time, the two were seized with an irresistible desire to climb into the magnolia and take a survey of the swamp. There were abundant signs in the appearance of stepping-places, cut in the trunk of the tree, that this had been frequently done before, and after some hesitation the sergeant mounted, being first cautioned by his comrade not to expose himself above the foliage. 
               "What do you see?" demanded Bolls, after the old soldier had settled himself into a comfortable position to look out. 
               "The mist, lying like a great snow-bank, along the trees of the distant hummock." 
               "The sun's rays are not yet powerful enough to dissipate it," said the recruit, venturing on a shrewd guess. "Is there anything moving?" 
               "Nothing but buzzards and such like varmints." 
               "Can you see Charley-Emathla's trail?" 
               "There are some logs lying about; but nothing of the kind that I can distinguish." 
               "He may be behind them." 
                
               "No; they are in open view." 
               "What on earth can have become of him?" 
               "The Lord only knows," peevishly replied the sergeant, descending from his perch and returning to the fire, where the two, for want of something better to do, occupied themselves in examining their arms, which, their situation warned them, might be called into use at any moment. 
               "How many loads have you?" asked the sergeant. 
               "Six," answered the recruit, holding up his powder-horn to the light. "Six small charges," 
               "Twelve shots in all," soliloquized the old soldier. "Not much for a siege, but 'twill do for a scrimmage as things are just now," he added, more cheerfully, to his companion. 
               "I don't exactly like our position here," observed the latter, looking nervously around him. "I feel all the time as if something awful was watching us." 
               "That's because you are in open ground." 
               "May there not be another path leading through the bushes,-I mean beside the one which 'Old Gravity' showed us? It does not seem natural that such slippery folks as Indians would be satisfied to live here, shut up, as it were, in a pocket." 
               "There is reason in what you say," replied the sergeant, laying down his gun. "Suppose we look for another one, or a place at all events where we can feel safer than in this exposed situation." 
               So the bushes were examined for the double purpose of finding a spot where they would be in cover, and at the same time of ascertaining whether there was in reality any other way than that which the chief had shown them, by which access could be had to and from the camp. Their pertinacity was at length rewarded by discovering some noticeable marks near the foot of the magnolia. Following these carefully, they came a spot where broken twigs and faint traces on the ground indicated that some one had recently passed there through the bushes. Pressing against the bushes, they yielded, revealing a narrow, winding trail. Entering it, elated at their discovery, the soldiers found themselves in a series of zigzags, which seemed to form a circuitous path leading to the middle of the thicket. At some distance from the center, however, the path turned off, and, after running for awhile apparently at random, abruptly came to an end. Sergeant Atkins, who was ahead, looked in every direction for a continuation of it, but could find none. He tried the bushes around him, but they would not give; he examined those in the rear, there were no signs there,-a matted mass of vegetation enveloped him on all sides; and, vexed by his fruitless search, the old soldier had turned to make his way out when Bolls, who, from their change of direction, was now some distance ahead, suddenly disappeared. If the earth had opened and swallowed the recruit, his superior could not have been more astonished. 
               "Where"are you, boy?" he cried, hastening to the spot where he had last seen his companion. 
               "Here!" answered a voice from the depths of the thicket. 
               The sergeant stooped down and caught sight of his friend's head, who had fallen, feet foremost, into a small opening in the side of the trail. 
               "Hold on!" he cried, "you may be getting into an alligator's den." 
               "No alligator here," cheerily said the voice. 
               "Then it is a snake's slide, or a sink-hole," continued the old soldier, determined to see the matter in a gloomy point of view. 
               "Nothing of the kind, I tell you." 
               "What sort of a place is't, then?" 
               "Real jolly!" 
                
               "Why didn't you say so at first?" grumbled the veteran, stooping down and letting himself into the hole, which was nothing more nor less than an oven-like burrow at the foot of a tree, of sufficient size to accommodate our adventurers with their arms and provender. The camp was about fifty feet off, a mass of bushes intervening but not entirely screening it from view, there being several ingeniously arranged loop-holes through which to observe it. 
               "This is bully!" said the sergeant, looking critically around him, after wiping the dust out of his eyes. "A log or two on the right and left of the tree, a sharp watch at night, and we can defy all the redskins in creation." 
               "Or white men either, for that matter." 
               "A white man wouldn't think of coming here," chuckled the old soldier. "How did you find it?" 
               "It found me,-I slid into it," said the recruit, laughing. 
               "I thought I had seen the last of you." 
               Gopher Hole," as the soldiers called the place in honor of their discovery, had not been occupied for some time, and was consequently not in a habitable state, being like an old tenement that had been abandoned by its owners and allowed to go to decay. Bolls and the sergeant therefore set heartily to work to renovate and improve the excavation, as they might hereafter have need to retreat to it. This occupied them the greater part of the day, and the sun was declining behind the treetops, and the noises of the swamp had already begun, before they completed their task, and, emerging into the open air, struck for the camp, which, as we have before observed, was only some fifty feet distant. 
               Arriving there, the sergeant seated himself, and, in a tone of infinite satisfaction cheered his companion by expressing his conviction that they "were safe for the night, anyhow." 
                
               Bolls threw down an armful of wood he had just gathered, and ventured to ask what reason he had for this opinion, receiving for answer that "Indians never attack until they had thoroughly acquainted themselves with the ground." 
               "They may have been doing it whilst we were in there," said the recruit, indicating their recent discovery by a sidelong motion of his head. 
               "We should have heard them moving about, or at all events we must have heard the signal." 
               "But I don't see how we are to distinguish it, when such an awful clatter is kept up in the swamp." 
               "You'll soon cease to heed that, boy. Oft-repeated sounds lose their effect on the ear. Who notices the ticking of a clock, or even the clatter of a mill, when he gits accustomed to it? Speaking of sounds," continued the sergeant, always ready to dash into a story, "I recollect once being on the St. Lucia River, with Left'nant L--, of the army--" 
               "Him you spoke of as trying to capture an alligator?" 
               "The same, and on the same expedition I told you of. We had gone up the river to look for a suitable site for a fort, and while there took prisoner an old squaw in a canoe. Jumping into the canoe,-the left'nant and me,-we paddled toward the middle of the river, which was both wide and deep here, with mangrove bushes on one side, and a pine-barren, in which we had encamped, on the other. The canoe was some distance from the bank, and the left'nant had fired at a flock of flamingoes overhead, when all at once there came a rattling noise out of the clear sky." 
               "The echo of the shot." 
               "Too long a time had passed for that," replied the veteran, shaking his head. 
                
               "Was it thunder?" 
               "There wasn't a cloud to be seen as big as the palm of your hand." 
               "What was it, then?" 
               "That's what the left'nant asked. He said it was thunder. I insisted that it was musketry; and it turned out I was right, for, on going ashore and questioning the squaw, whom we still detained as prisoner, she immediately answered that she had heard the guns of the whites. The left'nant laughed and said it was all a delusion, but some days afterward an express came in from Jupiter and reported that General Jessup had had a fight with the Indians near Loche-hatchee River." 
               "At the time you heard the noise?" 
               "The very moment, for I had put down the date and time of day,-eleven A.M."
                     A fact.
                  
                
               "How far were you from the battle-field?" 
               "Fifty miles in a straight line, with water intervening all the way. The St. Lucia consists of a network of streams all communicating with the Everglades, upon the edge of which the battle was fought; that's the reason we heard the firing so plainly,-the water conducting the sound." 
               "Do you think Charley-Emathla will keep his promise of warning us of danger?" asked Bolls, changing the subject of conversation to the ever-recurring question of the Indian's fidelity, a question which was of all-absorbing interest to the two just then. 
               "He promised to do so, and I cannot conceive what object he could have in falsifying his word; he had only to leave us in the swamp, and we should have stuck there beyond redemption." 
                
               "He may have had a purpose in bringing us here." 
               "What, for example?" 
               "I don't know. I don't pretend to understand Indians," said the recruit, with an injured air. 
               The sergeant made no further reply to this-considering the situation-pardonable remark on the part of his fellow-sufferer; and the latter, brightening up, asked, "Did you ever hear of this awful-looking place before?" 
               "Yes; there are several such, they say, in the Everglades." 
               "I would like to explore it." 
               "We shall have plenty of time for that." 
               This remark suggested another and more fearful thought to Bolls. "Do you think we shall have to remain here long?" he asked, in some trepidation. 
               "Till Charley-Emathla returns." 
               "Suppose he never returns?" 
               "I cannot allow myself to believe in any such idea," gravely answered the sergeant; "but, if it comes to that, we shall have to remain, that's all." 
               "Why not endeavor to find the way out?" 
               "And get lost for our pains? No, no, Bolls; you may undertake it, but I wouldn't venture again into that terrible swamp, without a guide, for any consideration that could be offered me." 
               "Well," said his follower, putting a bold face on the matter, "we can examine the place, at all events; there must be some queer things in it." 
               "Queer enough, if it is like other Indian settlements." 
               "Do you think this is a settlement?" 
               "There may be lodges to which the natives resort only now and then. They sometimes like to be where they are not intruded upon even by their own people." 
               "They can have their fill of solitude here," said the recruit cruit, gazing dolefully around him; "there never was a more lonely looking place." 
               "Well, boy, it's our home for the present, and we must make the best of it," said the sergeant, laughing. "The thicket is our fortification, and 'Gopher Hole' the citadel; holding that, we command the camp and the approaches thereto." 
               After which military utterance, the old soldier relapsed into silence, until it was interrupted by a question from Bolls. What this question was, and what an outpouring of information it elicited from Sergeant Atkins, the reader can learn from the next chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               SERGEANT ATKINS ON A "BIG TALK." 
               "BUT, speaking of Indians," observed the recruit, "why do they like to be alone?" 
               "It's their nature, my son. Some animals go in flocks, others by themselves; Indians aren't sociable." 
               "They are a strange people, and leave no more trace of their existence than beavers." 
               "Not so much, for beavers build dams, while the red man builds nothing that remains. A few years, and he will have disappeared." 
               "Pity!" 
               "What?" 
               "The wiping out of a race." 
               Sergeant Atkins whistled, and then broke out, "You couldn't save him any more than you can save the grasshopper when the prairie is on fire." 
               "Why set the prairie on fire?" 
               This was a poser. Bolls had turned logician, and knocked the sergeant down, figuratively speaking, with his own illustration. The latter felt his defeat, and said, evasively, "Well, you can't save him if you tried." 
               "You have been a good deal among 'em?" 
               "I don't recollect the time I first met Indians," thoughtfully replied the old soldier. "I believe I have seen and talked with specimens of most of the tribes." 
               "Is there any particular difference between them?" 
               "Not that I have been able to discover. They all have the same general characteristics of form and feature; their habits and customs are the same, with slight variations, due to climate and location, and there's not a great deal of difference, I reckon, in their dialects,-at least such is the case with the Prairie Indian, or Indian of the Plains. The Plains, you know, Bolls, is the big strip of country stretching from the British possessions on the north, the Gulf of Mexico on the south, the agricultural belt along the Mississippi River in the east, and the Rocky Mountains in the west,-a great interior desert or plain, which can never be settled by the white man, except along the water-courses, which are few and far between. This is the favorite haunt of the Indian." 
               "How does he live there?" 
               "Chiefly on buffalo." 
               "No other game?" 
               "Nothing to speak of,-a few antelope and deer. Except these, you meet with no living thing but prairie-dogs, prairie-wolves, buzzards, and crows. The prairie-dog is a queer little animal, feeding upon the roots of grass around its burrows, a number of which, covering a great extent of country, is called a 'town.' The rest follow the buffalo, hanging about the skirts of the great herds, and preying upon the aged, worn-out, or wounded animals." 
               "Why do you call' em prairie-dogs?" 
               "From the idea that their squeak resembles a bark; but in habits and appearance they are more like the squirrel. They seem to hate water, and their burrows are consequently found only in the highest and dryest parts of the Plains. I have traveled for days through a 'dog-town,' the little animals, fat as 'possums, waddling about and sitting upright before the holes, uttering their metallic-like chirps, and vanishing, at my approach, with a funny shake of their tails." 
               "Do the Indians eat' em?" 
               "When they can't get anything else. They are fat enough, in all conscience." 
               "Catch' em easy?" 
               "By turning water into their holes." 
               "Did you say white men couldn't live on the Plains?" 
               The sergeant nodded, adding, "The white man needs three things in forming a settlement,-wood, water, and grass,-none of which, in sufficient quantities, are to be found there. Most of the year there's no rain, and, in the more elevated parts, no dew; for miles it's a dead level, without a stick of timber as big as your little finger." 
               "If the white man can't live there, why does he want to drive the Indians away?" 
               "Well, that's not hard to tell, either. The Plains lie between two great sections of the country,-the East and the West,-and there must be roads from one to the other." 
               "Couldn't they make roads, and let the Indians alone?" 
               "Impossible, Bolls; roads mean 'go ahead,' and that means travel, and travel is death to the redskin. Have you ever seen a soil which kills certain plants? Well, civilization is the soil that kills the Indian." 
               "Then, in Heaven's name, why not put' em all somewhere by themselves?" asked the recruit, eager to find a solution of the problem. 
               "We've tried reservations, and it has worked tolerably well with the partially-civilized tribes, by which I mean the tribes that of late years have lived in one place; how it would answer with the wanderers, or those who have no fixed habitations, remains to be seen,-at present there are two difficulties in the way." 
               "That for your difficulties!" interrupted the recruit, disdainfully, snapping his fingers. "Duty, and not difficulty, is my doctrine." 
               "The Indians will roam off, and the white man will encroach upon the reservations," said the sergeant, unmindful of his friend's ethics. 
               "Can't law stop that?" 
               "What's law on the frontiers? The white man is usually the first one to break it. He squats near the reserve, creeps up closer, puts one foot in it, gets up a settlement, forms a territorial government, becomes a State, and demands the removal of the Indians." 
               "But the reserve belongs to' em." 
               "So long as it is not wanted for the whites,-that's the meaning of a treaty." 
               "I'd like to know how a treaty's made; don't the Indians have a say in it?" 
               "There's no particular form for making one. The way of it, you see, is this: the United States appoints a commissioner,-some crafty old fox,-who proceeds to the Indian country, and calls the particular tribe together. Well, after hugging all round, and making' em a speech, in which he tells' em how much his great father loves' em, and they have answered 'Humph!' 'How!' and 'Ooh!' he distributes presents to the chiefs, and invites 'em to put their names to a parchment. John Hicks makes his mark, the Terrapin and the Turtle draw theirs, all duly sealed and witnessed, and the thing's done. I have no objections to killing Indians, for just cause, in a square, stand-up fight," added the old soldier, capturing a mosquito that had been teasing him for some time, "but I hate awfully to cheat 'em." 
               "I should call it stealing." 
               The sergeant executed an elaborate wink, and both speakers were silent for awhile, thinking of a question which had puzzled wiser heads than theirs, the solution of which no right-minded American can be indifferent to,-the fate of the red man. At length Bolls said,- 
               "If you can't put the Indians by themselves, you can feed 'em, at all events, as you do your cattle." 
               "That's been tried. Congress has voted annuities, which no doubt have been judiciously expended in some cases, but unwisely, to use the very mildest term, in others, or else withheld from the claimants on the ground of alleged offenses which had never been committed. I once saw a lot of cotton drawers distributed to Indians who had no more use for 'em than turkeys for nightcaps." 
               "It must have been a funny sight." 
               "It was a disgraceful one. Congress wants to do what's right," continued the sergeant, "but it don't know what's right, and the chances are it never will understand until it is too late, when each political party will try to throw the responsibility of the muddle on the other." 
               "Who manages the business now?" 
               "A parcel of agents who look upon the Indians as fair game,-as something to be plucked," contemptuously answered the sergeant. 
                
               "The army, it strikes me, is the proper one to manage the business," shrewdly said the recruit; "it's all the time among the Indians, and knows what's best for 'em. Besides, officers holding commissions are more to be trusted than agents, who, being merely temporary appointments, have no interest in the red man except what they can make out of him for the time being." 
               "You are not the first one who has made that remark; but perhaps you do not see that to give army officers control would interfere with matters" (here the sergeant indulged in a series of winks); "they have too many fingers in the pie already,-so the agents say, and oughtn't they to know?" 
               "The Indian is in a pretty bad fix, and no mistake," said Bolls. "You can't civilize him or put him on reservations. What, then, can you do with him?" 
               The sergeant puckered up his mouth, but made no reply, and Bolls repeated his question. 
               "Let him alone." 
               "To be slowly choked to death?" 
               "I suppose so; hardest fend off! that's human nature." 
               "I like to hear things called by their right names, anyhow," said the recruit, with a burst of honest indignation. 
               "What would you have, my son? The white man and the Indian can't live together; they belong to different breeds, and will no more hitch horses than the dog will marry the cat." 
               "He's a human being, and ought to be treated as a human being." 
               "Yes, he has two legs, and can talk, but he's a wild man, and so he will remain. All efforts to tame him have failed and will fail. You may induce him to come into the settlements, you may catch and educate him when young; but, after all's said and done, he will go back to savage life as certainly as a duck takes to water. The experiment has been tried. We have had Indians in the army, but they were not satisfied, and soon got out of it. Even Major M--, who was a full-blooded Creek warrior, educated at West Point, returned to his people and put on the breech-clout." 
               ''Are there many Indians in the United States?" 
               "I suppose about three hundred and fifty thousand would cover all.
                     It must be remembered that Sergeant Atkins was talking in the year 1835. Since then the number of Indians within the limits of the United States has been steadily decreasing, so that the number at present writing probably is considerably less than three hundred thousand.
                  
                
               "Where are they chiefly stowed away?" 
               "Mostly west of the Mississippi River. There are two classes of Indians there: the tame, or those who live on reservations, and the wild ones who roam over the plains, following and subsisting on buffalo." 
               "If these last could be brought together, about what would be the cost of taking care of' em?" 
               "Three-fifths at least of all the Indians are nomads,-say two hundred and ten thousand. Taking this number as a basis, the thing has been figured up thus: two hundred and ten thousand mouths at ten cents a mouth,-the cost of a ration of corn-meal and beef,-twenty-one thousand dollars per day, to which must be added the cost of blankets, robes, beads, tobacco, seed, farming implements, and mechanics to teach'em trades,-a complete outfit, in fact, until they can raise enough to subsist themselves; provided always they can be induced to work. It would take a year or two at least to fairly test the question. Meanwhile the government might deem itself lucky to get out of the scrape with a less expenditure than from twenty-five to thirty thousand dollars per day, and I haven't made any allowance for stealing, either." 
               "If such a plan would work, where would you put these nomads, as you call'em?" 
               "Separate reservations, in the immediate neighborhood of where they now roam, might be set apart for some of the most docile of the tribes, but for the great mass of these savages I know of no more fitting region than the country west of Arkansas, comprising the Indian Territory, a portion of Texas and New Mexico, including the Llano Estacado." 
               "Supposing you would have to put each tribe by itself, wouldn't even that be cheaper in the long run than the present mode of dealing with the Indians?" 
               "Perhaps, if the military posts could be dispensed with," frankly answered the sergeant, who, to tell the truth, had not considered the subject in an economical point of view. 
               "But couldn't the number of posts be reduced?" 
               "Half might be wiped out, or more. You need no better proof of this than the few we keep up in the Indian Territory, where there are so many remnants of tribes that have no cause to love the white man." 
               Bolls reflected for awhile on the foregoing fund of useful information communicated to him by the sergeant, and then suddenly asked, "Are there many tribes of these nomads or wanderers?" 
               "Quite a number, subdivided into bands and so on. Generally speaking, they may be divided into two great families: the Dakotas or Sioux, inhabiting the region of country from the British line to the Platte River, and the Comanches, inhabiting the territory from the Arkansas to the Gulf of Mexico. The Cheyennes and Arrapahoes live between these two great families,-from the Arkansas to the Platte,-and, as far as is possible, keep on friendly terms with both. The Dakotas comprise the Crows, the Blackfeet, the Assiniboines (or stone-cooking people), the Arickeras, the Mandans, the Brules, the Ogallallahs, the Gros-Ventres, etc. The Comanches embrace the Kioways, Lipans, and Apaches, than which three more villainous tribes do not exist on the continent. The Kioways infest the country along the Arkansas River, the Lipans live in Texas, and the Apaches are found in Arizona and along the Mexican frontier. In New Mexico they are called wild Indians, to distinguish them from the tame, who live in pucblos along the Rio Grande, and must not be confounded with the Navajoes, who inhabit the mountain country west of Albuquerque. The latter is a remarkable tribe of Indians, numbering some ten thousand souls, and differing from the rest in this, that they cultivate the soil and raise vast herds of cattle. With a little encouragement-that is, with some aid from government-they might be made a formidable barrier against the thieving Apaches of the South, and the no less rascally tribes of the North. I have seen a Navajo blanket of as fine a texture as can be made in the States." 
               "Are there many tribes living in the mountains?" 
               "A great number, but they are not so tricky as their brothers of the Plains, probably because they come less in contact with the whites," answered the sergeant, unconscious of the satire he was uttering. Then resuming after a pause: "There's another class of Indians I have merely alluded to, namely, the tame ones, or those who, at various times, have been removed from within the borders of the States and placed on reservations along the Mississippi River and some of its tributaries, and in the Indian Territory west of Arkansas. There are quite a number of these remnants of tribes, all more or less reclaimed from their original savage ways,-semi-civilized in fact. The Delawares, Wyandots, Shawnees, Kickapoos, Miamis, Piankashaws, and many others have learnt very well how to take care of themselves, and no longer resort to hunting for a subsistence; the Choctaws and Chickasaws have made considerable progress in agriculture and pastoral pursuits; and the Cherokees have a government modeled after our own, with laws and a school system which wouldn't disgrace some of the States. This last tribe came originally from the mountains of Georgia, North Carolina, and Tennessee, the General Government having removed them pursuant to a treaty." 
               Our friend Bolls had not so favorable an opinion of treaties as those who made them, for, catching the word from his companion, he exclaimed, in a tone of great indignation, "The less you say of treaties the better; a great nation playing 'hook'em snivey' with savages! Why not take all their lands at once and be done with it?" 
               "Sixteen thousand Cherokees were marched off in a hurry, and their homes given up to the Crackers, who were waiting to enter and possess them," continued the sergeant, laughing at his companion's ire. "For my part of the work, I captured a half-breed squaw, Susanna Littledeer by name, playing the piano, and delivered her up to the agent for removing the tribe, feeling as I did so more like a miserable sneak than I ever felt before in all my life." 
               "Why didn't you refuse to do such dirty work?" reproachfully asked Bolls. 
               "I was a soldier, and had to carry out my orders," was the significant reply. 
               "I should have refused, anyhow," persisted the speaker, with a curl of the lip which showed that he had it in him to be stubborn. 
                
               "And been court-martialed for your pains. No, no, boy, it wasn't for me to judge of the matter; my duty was to obey orders, whatever the consequences." 
               "I should have refused, and, by thunder! had I been a Cherokee I would have done some hard fighting just about that time. But let's say no more about treaties, it makes me angry to hear of one. Which of the tribes is the most warlike?" 
               "All the wanderers make a business of war. The Comanches will fight you man to man; the Sioux are professional warriors, beggars, and thieves; but none stand up to their work like the Apaches, whether it be in fighting, begging, or stealing. They have lorded it so long over the Mexicans that they consider themselves invincible. They'll be taken down a peg one of these days." 
               "I should like to understand another thing,-when Indians, speaking different dialects, meet on the Plains, how do they communicate with each other?" 
               "There's a language of signs known to all the tribes. This language has a few words of French and Spanish extraction in it; but only two of English,-'How,' meaning 'how do you do?' and 'By,' meaning 'good-by.' It makes no difference what Indians you meet, they will immediately accost you with 'How?' and having exhausted words, will proceed at once to signs. It is astonishing how much they can express in this way. For example, if an Indian wishes to tell you by signs that it is a day's journey to a certain point on the prairie, where you can find accommodation for man and beast, shooting buffalo by the way, he will first indicate the sun's course from its rising to the point where it will be when you have arrived at your journey's end. Then he will straddle his left forefinger with his right fore and middle fingers, trotting them up and down to imitate the motions of a horse and rider. Then he will act as if he was halting, dismounting, and firing at something, which he indicates is a buffalo by placing his hands at either side of his head, the forefingers extended in imitation of horns. Again he remounts, proceeds on his way, and finally stops, laying his head on his hand and closing his eyes, to intimate that the traveler has arrived at his journey's end, and is about to go to sleep. All this is called the language of signs." 
               "Is it hard to acquire?" 
               "No,-very easy." 
               "Who invented it?" 
               "It grew of itself. An officer of experience once told me that he had tried what I have just been telling you on a number of mutes, and they immediately interpreted the signs, substituting deer for buffalo. Many of our cant phrases have their origin from this source. If an Indian wants to intimate to you by signs that such a one is dead, he will put one hand, spread out, over the other and then slip it beneath, as if to say 'gone under.' If he wishes to inform you that there is no water at a certain place, he will take a handful of sand, and blowing upon it, toss it into the air, which is as much as saying 'dry up.' There are thousands of such signs, expressive enough when you know their meaning. Should an Indian want to tell you that certain squaw is his wife, he will point to her, then to himself, and then place his forefingers together, as if to say, 'we two are one.' If he wishes to inform you that a warrior is his brother, he points to the warrior, then to himself, and then puts two fingers into his mouth, meaning, 'we two were nourished at the same breast.' If he wishes you to understand that a certain brave is his son, he makes a like sign, and then passes his hand down his body, as if to say, 'he is a part of me;' and if he desires to convey the idea that the warrior is his friend, he points to him, and then folds his arms over his breast, as if holding something to it which he values. If you find an article of Indian make on the Plains, look sharply to its fashioning. Each tribe has its own mode of 'getting up' its moccasins, lodges, bows, arrows, etc. I once detected a party of Crows by finding a fragment of moccasin in a recent camp; and got away from a band of Blackfeet by leaving a Crow arrow in my trail. The Blackfeet were at war with the Crows at the time, and were shy of any indications of their, presence in consequence. If you ask an Indian by signs what parties have lately passed him, he will indicate the tribe or tribes by some name, or by the representation of some totem peculiar to each,-a Snake by a gliding motion, a Crow by imitating the flapping of wings, etc. The traveler on the prairie must be all the time on the alert, if he wouldn't lose his hair. If he encamps in the vicinity of the nests of the large red ant, he had better examine the hills. The ant is a provident little insect, fortifying the entrance to its nest with small pebbles; and if Indians have lately been in the neighborhood, there will be beads on the hills; that's the way we found the garnet in the Navajo country." 
               "Is the practice of taking scalps peculiar to the Indians?" 
               "Not at all; it has prevailed with other savage tribes. They are no worse, in this respect, than the Australian savages." 
               "They are bound to disappear," said Bolls, in a low tone of voice, speaking more to himself than to his companion. 
               "Yes, in a century or two the red man will be a curiosity. The Americans of that day will wonder why the government hadn't taken better care of the race. There's a broad difference of opinion between the East and the West on the subject. The East is for giving the Indian a chance, and the West is for exterminating him, I don't pretend to say which is right, but one thing is certain,-if the East had him in its midst, you would witness some tall changes of opinion as to how he should be treated. From all of which I argue," continued the old soldier, "that it is not so much a question of humanity as of policy. The nation cries, 'Lo! the poor Indian!'-but how about his lands? Well, I suppose it's in the nature of things; it is the old story of the big fish eating up the little ones." 
               "If we can't save the little fish, we should, at least, I think, smooth their way to the happy hunting-grounds." After which, for him, extraordinarily poetic remark, Bolls proceeded to make a fire, the sun having set, and the mist beginning to rise and roll in upon the island, before the sergeant had finished his learned dissertation.
                     In this chapter, as elsewhere, we desire once for all to say, that the sergeant sometimes speaks ahead of time. The Cherokees, for example, were not removed from their country until two years after the date of our story.
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               SOMETHING ABOUT THE DEAD. 
               NOTHING having occurred to disturb them in the night, the soldiers rose at an early hour, and, reassured by the return of light, proceeded to carry out their purpose of exploring the island, having first taken the precaution to conceal the approach to their hiding-place by restoring to a natural position the bushes which had been disturbed by their passage. 
               Following the trail Charley-Emathla had shown them,-the only one, indeed, communicating with the camp,-they found that it led to the landing or point at which they had penetrated the island, then toward the center, and thence down to its farthest extremity, the ground gradually rising, and the undergrowth thinning out as they toilsomely made their way to a moundlike spot beneath several huge pines, which, towering above the rest of the trees, gave a singular aspect to the scene. The pines seemed to be out of place there. The mound itself was a strange formation. But nature occasionally indulges in such freaks. On the road from Santa F to Fort Stanton, New Mexico, the traveler sees great hills of dazzling white sand rising out of the green plain, and scattered over a considerable extent of country. 
               "A queer-looking place," observed the sergeant, emerging from the bushes and gazing around him. 
               "I can see outside," said his follower, standing on tiptoe. 
               "And be seen, too; so be careful, my son." 
                
               "How did these pines come here?" 
               "They sprang up in the soil, of course." 
               "But where did the soil come from? All else is swamp." 
               "I shouldn't wonder if the Indians brought it. They often do such work, toiling like ants for years, especially if there's no apparent use in it; or perhaps it was done in honor of some distinguished brave, whose remains are buried here." And the sergeant dug his heel into the light sand of the mound. 
               "What is that queer-looking thing in the bushes?" asked the recruit, who, as the reader ere this must have noticed, was of an inquiring turn of mind. 
               The sergeant walked toward the object in question,-a cone-shaped hut, built of wooden slabs neatly fitted together, and tapering to a point, in appearance not unlike a huge funnel, the oddest part of it being that there was no visible entrance, except through a hole in the ground at some distance from the structure, but evidently communicating with it. 
               "I have seen many strange things in the course of my life, but nothing like this," said the sergeant, curiously contemplating the hut. 
               "It may be a trap," apprehensively said Bolls. 
               "To catch what,-alligators?" 
               "Turkeys, maybe." 
               "Bother with your turkeys! How could they get into it?" 
               "By the hole." 
               "By the hole!" repeated the sergeant, stooping down and peeping in; "they would have to go underground, and turkeys aren't given to that mode of locomotion. No, it's more like a medicine-lodge, or a lodge used in the religious ceremonies of the Indians. I'll see the inside, if I have to crawl through the hole." 
                
               The recruit shrank back, in evident repugnance to such a proposition, and the veteran added, "I don't believe there's any danger in trying it,-so here goes!" 
               The sergeant went down on his hands and knees, and entered the opening, which, though somewhat narrow for his broad shoulders, allowed free passage by a little squeezing. The recruit followed, nothing daunted, having his misgivings, it is true, yet, like a good soldier, sticking close to his superior. 
               Proceeding thus for some distance, Bolls demanding, at every few feet, to know "what his friend saw," and "whether the thing wasn't coming to an end," and being as regularly informed that "he saw nothing," and that "there was no end yet," the two finally emerged upon the floor of the structure, and looked around them in the faint light which found its way through the slabs. 
               What did they see? The paraphernalia of a conjurer's lodge? Nothing of the kind. The hut was empty, bare walls and several large stones being the only objects visible. 
               "I understand it now," said the old soldier, after his eyes had become accustomed to the obscurity of the place. "It's an Indian's sweating-lodge. In the spring of the year they drink a tea concocted of roots and berries, which makes 'em sick, when they go into a place like this, for purposes of purification, as they say. The Sioux build their lodges by planting poles in a circle, and bending them over to a common center. The framework is then covered with blankets and buffalo-robes, leaving a hole barely large enough for the operator to creep in. 
               "What are the stones for?" 
               "To increase the temperature." 
               "It's hot enough without that," said the recruit, wiping the perspiration from his brow. 
                
               "They heat the stones, cover up the opening, strip themselves naked, and have a hot time of it generally." 
               "I hope they enjoy it," said the recruit, turning and making his way out. 
               Near the lodge was a place which had evidently been devoted to the purpose of preparing and dressing skins. Various implements lay around,-troughs, with bark or other tanning substances in them, rude scrapers made of hoop-iron, a quantity of hair, and several hewn planks elevated on posts two to three feet above the ground, forming a sort of platform or work-table on which to operate. 
               "I have traded many a buckskin with 'em," said the sergeant. "They prepare it by soaking the hide in some tanning substance which loosens the hair so that it can be easily scraped off. It is then smeared with the animal's brains, and worked by hand till it becomes dry and limber." 
               "Do they dress any other kind of skins?" 
               "None to speak of. Squirrel, rabbit, fox, and wolf are of little account, not being furs. You must go to a colder climate than Florida for furs." 
               "Where do the best furs come from?" 
               "From all parts of the North where the animals have not been exterminated. The marten or sable, the silver-gray fox, the ermine, etc. are found in the Rocky Mountains. They are genuine furs, but none will compare in usefulness with the buffalo-robe and deerskin." 
               "What is the difference between a fur and a skin?" 
               "A fur is a skin, but a skin is not always a fur,-both, in the rough state, are called 'peltry' by the trappers. The squirrel-skin is a fur, but a poor one; so is the cat and rabbit; the muskrat is better, but not of much account either. Furs are luxuries; skins necessities. There's a great deal of rascality practiced in the fur trade. To say nothing of the wholesale manner the Indians are cheated, the furs themselves undergo considerable changes before getting into the hands of consumers,-their very names are changed. Catskin is called genet, mink is termed American sable, skunk is christened prairie-badger, while the inferior grades of marten are dyed and waxed so as to resemble Hudson Bay sable. These are some of the tricks of the sharp ones. But, as regards buckskin," continued the sergeant, "I don't know what the southern tribes would do without it, being as necessary to 'em as the buffalo-robe is to the Prairie Indians: they use it for everything except the hunting-shirt,-calico for that, the gaudier the better." 
               "What on earth are those things for?" asked Bolls, pointing to a number of rough troughs, filled with water, and carefully covered with bark. 
               "Koonta, by all that's lucky!" said the sergeant, taking and tasting a lump of a white substance at the bottom of one of the troughs. 
               "The stuff the chief gave us? How is it made?" 
               "The root, formed like the potato, is grated into water, and settles at the bottom in a cake which can be easily crushed into a fine powder. The koonta grounds are near New River, off here to the south, on the Atlantic side of the Territory. The Indians repair there at certain times, and make enough to last them for a season." 
               "That's a strange-looking concern up there." Bolls pointed to what seemed to be a great nest in the loftiest of the pines. 
               "A lookout, I would call it, for see, there are notches cut in the bark by which to mount to it." 
               "A cunning dodge," said the recruit, putting the butt of his rifle into one of the notches. 
                
               "You'll see a good many such dodges, if you go much among the natives," laughingly returned the sergeant. 
               "And that affair there between the trees, is it intended for a lookout, also?" The speaker pointed to a massively-built platform, some ten feet above the ground, supported by firmly-planted posts. 
               Sergeant Atkins laid down his gun and raised himself up by the edge of the platform, in order to catch a glimpse of the top. What he saw there evidently startled him, for, quickly lowering himself, he stood awhile silent and thoughtful, and it was not until his comrade had threatened to climb up and see for himself, that he at length said, "Well, well, my son, it's only a dead man's bones. The birds have picked 'em clean. The body was originally sewn up in skins, but the filthy creatures have gotten through 'em." 
               "Bones!" repeated the astonished soldier; "what a horrid way of disposing of the dead!" 
               "I am not so sure of that," meditatively answered the old soldier; "barring the varmints, I'd rather be laid on a platform, in a desert island like this, than in a marble tomb in the grandest cemetery in the world. It's pleasant to think that, whilst lying there, all nature is singing over you." 
               "It might suit you, but it wouldn't me. I want to be buried where my folks are,-where children play, and church-bells ring of a Sunday, and where" (here Bolls made an expressive grimace) "buzzards and crows cannot come to make a meal of me." 
               "I don't wonder at your notions, boy; it's according to your bringing up. But as for me, I care not what you do with this old body of mine after life is out of it. Of course I shall be killed, and where I fall there you may bury me." 
                
               "Would you like to be laid in the earth with nothing to mark your resting-place?" 
               "I wouldn't care. What difference does it make where I am laid? Nothing at all. It's no longer me, but a clod of earth,-a fallen limb; and the sooner you stow it away the better." 
               "You believe in a future state?" 
               "I have never doubted it," earnestly said the sergeant. 
               "Do you believe that Indians go to heaven?" 
               "Of course I do, if they are deserving. To suppose the contrary would be to impeach the justice of Him who made 'em Indians, and put 'em where they couldn't have the light of Christianity. Their heaven may differ from the white man's heaven, though I can't imagine how that can be." 
               "I kinder thought that all good people would be mixed up in the good place, and form somehow or other a happy family." 
               "About as natural a supposition as any," said the sergeant, gazing up at the sky as if he would fain see what was beyond. "I often wonder how such things are to be." 
               "But them bones up there," said the recruit, recalling the sergeant to earth. "Do Indians always expose their dead in that way?" 
               "Not always; some of the tribes bury in the Christian's fashion,-that is, in the ground; the Russian American Indians burn theirs and deposit the ashes and unconsumed bones in boxes raised on pillars; the Kaluskians, of the Island of Sitka, cover their dead with canoes; the Rocky Mountain tribes conceal 'em in crevices and holes of the rocks; the tribes at the foot of the mountains wrap their dead in raw hides, and suspend them in trees till decomposition takes place, when they gather up the remains and carry 'em about until they find a proper place of deposit posit. The Prairie Indians put theirs on platforms like this, generally on some high eminence or noted locality, the bodies sewn up in skins, feet toward the setting sun." 
               "Why is that?" 
               "Probably out of consideration for the spirits of the departed, who may take it into their heads to use their bodies again." 
               "Very considerate of 'em." 
               "When the scaffolds decay and fall, they gather up the remains and bury all but the skulls, which they arrange in a circle on the ground, faces inward, with a buffalo skull in the center." 
               "What a strange idea!" 
               "It symbolizes a council, or something of the kind." 
               "I shouldn't like to come across such a circle on the solitary prairie." 
               "It is startling enough; the Indians visit these circles once a year to meet and confer with their spirit friends. That's a grand custom with the Sioux," continued the old soldier. "The last man killed in battle is left seated on the field, looking in the direction the enemy has gone." 
               "I like that." 
               "Yes, there is something of the heroic in it; they have many such ideas. I have heard of nations throwing their dead into a river, and others burning 'em, and others inclosing 'em on platforms, open at the top, for wild beasts to devour, and others embalming the dead and piling 'em away in pits, as you pack herrings in a barrel; but mother earth is the proper place for a carcass, be it man or beast. Having served the purpose of a living creature, it does some good in enriching the soil." 
               "Is it true that when a warrior dies among the Indians they bury his horse and equipments with him?" 
               "True, no doubt, but I never saw it. When a chief of the Sioux is killed and prisoners have been taken, one of' em is bound to and buried alive with the body, so that he can have an attendant when he gets into the spirit world." 
               "An awful thing to do." 
               "It's in accordance with their notions of a future state, and has that to excuse it." 
               "What is the Indian's religious belief?" 
               "He believes in a Supreme Being-the Great Spirit-who created the earth and the 'happy hunting-grounds.'" 
               "Strange, isn't it?" 
               "What?" 
               "That savages should have conceived of an idea that has puzzled so many civilized people," 
               "'Tisn't stranger than the theories that have been broached as to the origin of the Indian,-that he is a descendant of one of the lost tribes of Israel." 
               "A Jew!" cried Bolls, opening his eyes. "How did he become copper-colored?" 
               "There you touch on another of his notions. Tradition runs that the Great Spirit one day in a playful mood made of clay the white man, the red man, and the negro. He dipped the white man into water and laid him out to dry, when he turned white; but He burnt the red man and the negro in fire, when the former turned red and the latter black. Hence there is an affinity between the two, but none with the white man, who is only a half-made up mortal at the best." 
               "Does the Indian believe in other spiritual beings than a Great Spirit?" 
               "He believes in the spirits of departed Indians who are always at variance as respects himself. According to his doctrine, there are good and bad spirits in the spirit world, as there are good and bad men in this. These good and bad spirits have not lost their interest in earthly things simply because they have given up their earthly body. Death to the red man is a mere change of condition, as the chrysalis changes to the butterfly; but nothing else about him is changed. The father is as much interested in the son, the mother in the daughter, the wife in the husband, as when he or she lived upon earth. The liar is a liar still, the thief a thief, and the drunkard is still a drunkard in the spirit world,-that is, so far as they can exercise their propensities; and what they cannot do of themselves, they come back to earth and influence others to do." 
               "The bad as well as the good, then, go to the ' happy hunting-grounds'?" 
               "They all go alike, and follow out the pursuits which interested them on earth." 
               "But about spirits returning. Do you think the Indian is honest in this notion?" 
               "Certainly; no idea is more firmly fixed in his mind. Bluesnake will tell you some strange stories on that head, if you can get him to talk about it?" 
               "Is he a medicine-man?" 
               "No; but he has a remarkable gift,-the power of reading your thoughts, and the thoughts of those who are dead," replied the sergeant, in a low voice. 
               Bolls laughed, and the sergeant continued, "I don't wonder at your incredulity,-I laughed myself, when first told of it; but"-and here the old soldier nervously glanced around him-"I have taken hold of a hand which Bluesnake said-and I have never known him to lie-was the hand of a friend." 
               "Who was the friend?" 
               "No matter," replied the sergeant, with a reserved air. 
               "A dead man's hand? That's sheer nonsense!" 
                
               "Nonsense or not, it's so; and yon mustn't joke Bluesnake on the subject,-he don't like to talk of it. But he can call 'em up at any time, by going through some mysterious movements." 
               "Call up what?" 
               "The spirits of the dead." 
               "How do they look?" 
               "Just as they did in life." 
               "With the ghost of clothes on?" asked Bolls, inclined to be facetious. 
               "I can't say as to that," gravely answered the sergeant. "But you had better not ask Bluesnake such questions." 
               "Well, well! that beats anything I ever heard! Seeing and talking to dead folks is something new; they'll be eating with 'em next." 
               "He does that, too,-at least he says so." 
               "I wouldn't believe it if all the Bluesnakes in the world were to swear to it!" said Bolls, disdainfully. "It's tough enough to see dead 'uns, but to eat with' em is piling it up a little too high! What becomes of the food?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               SERGEANT ATKINS TELLS A GHOST STORY. 
               "I KNOW not, Bolls," said the sergeant, speaking with hesitation; "there are many things we don't understand, and therefore think strange. What puzzles us at one period of our lives is A B C at another,-it is only a question of time and knowledge; and if we go ahead in the next thousand years as we have in the past, there is no knowing where we shall 'fetch up,' or what secrets of nature we shall then have found out. I recollect Bill English, of the comp'ny,-a first-rate soldier was Bill, only too fond of John Barleycorn." 
               "Who was John Barleycorn?" 
               "A chap I advise you to fight shy of," earnestly answered the old soldier. "Bill and me were bosom friends, and many a scrape we have had together, the only difference between us in that respect being, that I could leave off drinking when I pleased; but, once on a frolic, Bill had to go through with it, cost what it would. Well, one day he got on a tearing spree, and kept it up for a week, smashing things generally, and winding up in the guard-house, with charges against him a yard long. He was tried, or rather was to have been tried, when his muster-out took place." 
               "How's that?" 
               "Kicked the bucket,-died!" gravely answered the old soldier. "When he found his marching-orders had come, he sent for me, and said that he had acted foolishly, but never viciously, and he couldn't go to roll-call till he had asked the captain's pardon and bid me good-by. We consoled him as well as we knew how; but what can you say to a dying man? Well, after doing our best in the way of keeping his courage up, he grasped my hand, and said, with trembling lips, 'Good-by, Charley; I'll see you again.' Them were his last words. Said I, 'Good-by, old fellow, and drink nothing but water on the other side.' He smiled, and so died. And now for the strange part of the matter. Bill and me had bunked together from boyhood: he was fifer and I was drummer,-and a rousing fifer he was!" 
               "Better than that West Point chap?" 
               "Old Wallace? Why, he couldn't hold a candle to him!" contemptuously replied the sergeant. "I slept alone, after Bill's death, not caring to have a chum with me; and one night, after a hard day's work, had turned in and fallen asleep, when suddenly I was wakened by some one turning over in the bunk beside me, for all the world as Bill had been accustomed to do when tired of lying in one position. I stretched out my arm, thinking to put it on Bill, not remembering, at the moment, he was dead, and, sure enough, it rested on a warm and breathing body." 
               "Some chap who had crept into the bunk, and laid down beside you while you were asleep." 
               "No!" 
               "Who was it, then?" 
               "Bill English!" solemnly replied the sergeant. 
               "But Bill English was dead." 
               "I don't care,-it was he or his ghost, and I'll swear to it. I knew him by every sense I had," eagerly continued the old soldier. "Moreover, my arm resting on his body, I opened my eyes, and there in the bright moonlight saw him beside me, even to a little bald spot on the back of his head. But, as I looked, he seemed slowly to melt away, till nothing was there." 
                
               "You had lain upon your arm and imagined it some one else's,-I have done that myself." 
               "I might have thought so, but, frightened by what had happened, I sat up and glanced around me, and there again, leaning on the gun-rack at the foot of the bunk, was my bunk-mate gazing intently at me. I rubbed my eyes and pinched my arms to see if I was dreaming, but I was as wide awake as I am at this moment, and there again, certain and sure, stood Bill, smiling, and gradually fading away, as before, till only the moonlight remained." 
               "That's the straightest ghost story I ever heard," enthusiastically observed the recruit. "Did you tell any of the boys, or speak to any one afterward about it?" 
               "Not I,-I had no wish to be laughed at, and I didn't believe in ghosts then." 
               "Do you now?" 
               Sergeant Atkins remained silent, and Bolls added: 
               "Some chap who was playing a trick on you." 
               "I would like to catch any one attempting a game of that kind on me," grimly returned the old soldier. "I should have knocked him into the middle of next week." 
               "Then how can you explain it?" asked Bolls, not caring to inquire where the middle of next week was. 
               "That's more than I can say,-I saw my messmate if I ever saw you, and all the talk in the world can't convince me that I didn't." 
               "That's why you don't laugh at Bluesnake's notions?" 
               "When I hear a man declare he has seen a ghost, I think of my own experience on the subject, and am silent." 
               "What did the ghost mean by saying, 'I will see you again'?" 
               "I tell you the facts, and you can draw your own conclusions. You now know as much about it as I do." 
               "How long ago was it the thing happened?" 
                
               "Thirty-five years next Christmas. I recollect it because the comp'ny was preparing for a jollification only the day before, and I had been working like a beaver, fixing up the mess-room with flags, etc., and thinking how much Bill would have enjoyed it had he been alive,-that's how I became so tired." 
               "Have you seen him since?" 
               Sergeant Atkins pretended not to hear the question. So Bolls repeated it. 
               "Didn't I tell you I had felt his hand?" testily returned the old soldier. Then adding more temperately, "But come, my son, we have stayed here long enough talking of spirits; the day is half spent, and we have yet much to do. I have a notion that if we steer well to the right we may be able to reach camp in that direction." 
               "If we can get through the bushes," said Bolls, gazing doubtfully at the dense vegetation before him. 
               "We can try it anyhow. There must be a continuation of the trail somewhere's here." 
               Recollecting their previous experience on the subject, our explorers looked carefully around, and at length stumbled upon what seemed to be the well-worn path of a reptile through the bushes. A closer inspection, however, showed that it was made by a higher intelligence than a reptile's,-that reason had something to do with the manner in which the bushes were arranged, yielding as before on pressure. Following this clue, it led them, sometimes into the swamp, but never out of friendly cover, to a point in the upper end of the island beyond the thicket in the midst of which the camp was situated. Here, however, all signs of a trail vanished. There were several side paths leading into the swamp, but none in the direction in which the soldiers wished to go; and satisfied that they were on the wrong track, the two had retraced their steps for some distance, intending to return the way they had come, when Sergeant Atkins chanced to look up at the foliage, which here was so dense as almost to exclude the light from above. 
               "A different growth from the other end of the island," he observed, pausing, and renewing his observation; "I wonder if it would be possible to go to camp by the trees?" 
               "Not unless you had wings, and could fly there." 
               "I'm not satisfied that you can't walk; suppose you try, Bolls," rejoined the old soldier, in an argumentative tone. "They stand close enough to step from one to the other." 
               The recruit laid down his gun, and, mounting the nearest tree at hand, found that it was an easy matter to proceed toward camp, stepping-places in the trunks and crotches of the limbs being cut at convenient intervals for that purpose. Nor was this all. Ingeniously constructed hiding-places,-out-of-the-way nooks,-were arranged in the massive foliage, where the occupant could lie concealed and watch the ground beneath, as well as the swamp outside. 
               "A strange place this!" cried the explorer, from his perch. "Here are all sorts of contrivances,-people have lived here." 
               "Can you see camp?" 
               "No; it's dark as a wolf's mouth; but I guess I can go to it." 
               "Then come down, boy; we will make the experiment at another time." 
               "I should like to try it now," eagerly said Bolls; "I'm certain I can reach it." 
               Sergeant Atkins made no reply, and taking this for assent, Bolls started on his proposed trip, and accomplished the distance to and from the magnolia in the camp, almost before his superior had realized that he was gone. 
                
               "How was it?" asked the old soldier, as his friend, covered with moss and bark, slid down the tree beside him. 
               "Awful," he replied, drawing a long breath. "I shouldn't like to travel that path again." 
               "You were not gone long." 
               "I was frightened, and hurried back. I saw--" 
               "What?" eagerly asked the veteran. 
               "A quantity of human hair." 
               "Bah! you can see plenty of that in any Indian town after a fight." 
               "White man's hair," impressively added the recruit. 
               "Ah, indeed!" said his superior, involuntarily stroking his own gray locks; "how do you know it was white man's hair?" 
               "By the color,-a light-brown. But that wasn't what scared me," hastily continued Bolls; "there was the strangest sight of all,-an awful-looking thing,-an entire skeleton, sitting in a crotch, its head painted a bright red, the body black, streaked with white, and the legs yellow. One arm was folded across the breast, holding something-a scalp, I think-in its hand; the other extended as if addressing a number of other skeletons who sat grinning in the branches around. Goodness! it was horrible, and I didn't take a second look." The recruit passed his hand over his face and wiped the perspiration from his brow. The sergeant smiled, and the speaker continued: "There were a lot of moccasins, bows and arrows, and other things hanging around." 
               "The belongings of those whose bones are up there," explained the old soldier; "you have come across what I have been telling you of,-an Indian graveyard." 
               "They might dispose of their dead to better purpose than making scarecrows of 'em, frightening away one's senses!" indignantly said the recruit. "I wouldn't venture there again, after dark, if you gave me the island." 
               "Nonsense, boy! I thought you had more pluck." 
               "What's pluck against dead folks?" 
               Not caring to discuss the question, as it was not debatable as Bolls had stated it, the sergeant resumed: "We have learnt something, by our morning's work, that may be useful to us in the future, particularly if we are besieged. The camp lies between the mound on one side and the graveyard on the other. There seems to have been an object in this. Indians believe that the spirits of their dead friends are always on the watch to warn them of danger. The skeletons may have been placed in the trees for that purpose, or perhaps to frighten off intruders. They are given to such practices." 
               "It frightened me," said Bolls, with an earnestness that called forth a laugh from his superior. 
               The two retraced their steps to the pines, and thence to camp, leaving the further prosecution of their discovery to another occasion, when they would be less pressed for time. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE LOOKOUT. 
               THE next day, and the next, and for several successive days, the soldiers devoted themselves to exploring the island, making several curious and interesting discoveries, besides demonstrating by actual trial that it was a practicable thing to start from the magnolia in the camp and go in any direction by the trees. It was a hazardous trip, however, and was not to be lightly undertaken, as there were wide gaps and dangerous places by the way; but it saved a long and tortuous walk through the bushes, and, after Bolls had got accustomed to the skeletons in the aerial graveyard, he was not afraid to face them with open eyes, even in the obscurity of the evening. The path by the trees afforded other advantages, too,-it left no trail, and its elevated position enabled the soldiers to keep an eye on camp and the approaches thereto,-one or the other being most of the time on guard; but they watched in vain, the little animals infesting the thicket being the only intruders on their privacy. These creatures, however, proved to be a serious annoyance in their way. Our adventurers found themselves beset by an organized band of thieves whose sly proceedings were not the least provoking part of the business. Not a piece of meat could be left exposed that did not disappear. Some corn the chief had given them most unaccountably popped itself off; and the koonta shrank visibly, as if spirited away by invisible hands. Now it was a snake, now a bird, now a squirrel or rabbit that did the mischief; but, set as many traps as he pleased, Bolls, who was the more aggrieved party, could catch only a mouse or two for his pains, the larger animals evading his lures with a sagacity which, to say the least of it, was very discouraging. "But what's the use of worrying?" the sergeant had observed, by way of comforting his subordinate; "we can gather more grub in an hour than the varmints can steal in a week" And, assenting to this very obvious truth, Bolls abandoned his designs against the raiders. 
               The lookout in the pines was a favorite resort of the soldiers. No one approaching the island would imagine that it was anything else than the nest of some large bird, and it was not until you got inside and saw the notches cut in the trunk that you realized what it was designed for. The soldiers came here daily to look for their friends. The prisoner in his dungeon, the castaway mariner, never longed more eagerly for succor than they did to behold the slightest indication of Charley-Emathla's or Bluesnake's presence in the swamp. But they watched in vain. Day after day the sun rose, the mist curled and melted, the denizens of the swamp woke up, but the promised aid came not. "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick," 
               The soldiers gradually lost their buoyant spirits, as they each successive day mounted to the lookout, and, after scanning the swamp, descended and returned, with sinking hearts, to camp. 
               "They never intended to come; I believe 'Old Gravity' is keeping us here to fatten." 
               Thus grumbled Bolls, for the fiftieth time. The sergeant said nothing. He had listened to the recruit's complaints, and combated his arguments, until he was weary; and, to tell the truth, he himself was fast losing heart. There is a limit to every one's endurance, and the sergeant's limit was fast being reached. After a certain hour of the morning it was impossible to remain in the lookout. Whilst the sun's beams were horizontal, the occupants were shaded, or at least partially protected, by the sides of their perch; but, as the sun rose, its rays struck them at an ever-increasing angle, and finally drove them away. The heat then became almost unbearable; the birds sought the shelter of the trees, the reptiles the mud, the insects the bushes; even the snails crept up the shady sides of the weeds, and held fast thereto, seeking cover. 
               When not employed in looking for their friends, the soldiers amused themselves watching the movements of the various denizens of the swamp, which, having become accustomed to their presence, no longer feared them. 
                
               One day, whilst thus engaged, the two saw a large moccasin capture a young rabbit, which, no doubt contrary to advice, had ventured into the swamp. A blacksnake had witnessed this violation of his manorial rights from a bush, in the shade of which he was taking a siesta. What does the swamp bully do? Dart upon the poacher, and wrest away the game? Such are not the tactics of the blacksnake. He glides into the bushes, and makes a circuit to get nearer the intruder, who, having first raised his head and reconnoitered the ground, has uncoiled and stretched himself out, preparatory to swallowing his prey, when, like a glance, the blacksnake is upon him. A vague mass of revolving coils, the mud flying in all directions, a lull, and there lies the rabbit, and, far off, the moccasin, gasping and dying in the coils of the constrictor. 
               "Why didn't the moccasin bite him?" asked Bolls. 
               "The creature didn't give him a chance; he had him safe by the nape of the neck, as a terrier takes a rat." 
               The buzzard in its flight was a source of constant wonder to the recruit. How it remained suspended in the atmosphere; how it rose up, up, in a spiral curve; how it fell, or rather slid down the air, in a like curve, without any apparent action of the wings, was a mystery, seeing that to rise or to move in a given direction the bird had only to cock one wing higher than the other, as a vessel careens to the wind, or as an oyster-shell skimmed along the surface of water sometimes takes an upward shoot. 
               "I have never heard it satisfactorily explained," said the sergeant, in answer to a question on the subject from Bolls. "My idea is, that the buzzard is a light bird, with great stretch of wing, and these qualities enable it, by a slight movement,-so slight as to be imperceptible,-to remain suspended or even to rise in the air." 
               "Why does it fly in circles?" 
               "The better to reconnoiter the ground. You see that one away off there, like a speck in the distance; well, he is connected to these chaps overhead by a chain of circles tangent to each other, and traveled over by each of the birds in turn, so that should any one in the chain discover a carcass, he immediately notifies the rest by darting down, and then all follow." 
               "But how does he see so far off?" 
               "All birds, especially birds of prey, have the faculty of altering the focal distance of the eye at pleasure. The buzzard sees an object equally distinct whether it be a foot or a mile off,-it makes no difference; the eye, in fact, is its only admirable feature, being soft, clear, and liquid." 
               "I am glad to hear that the creature has something to recommend it," laughed Bolts. "But what is that off there moving in the swamp,-in a line with the logs?" 
               Sergeant Atkins gazed through his partly-closed hand. "I cannot make out what it is," he at length said. 
               "A deer!" exclaimed Bolls. "I see the light glancing on its horns,-it's coming in this direction." 
               The sun was now up, the mist had rolled away from the swamp, leaving only a thin fringe lying along the distant hummock. Above the fringe rose, spirelike and straight, a single thread of light-blue smoke. Now smoke is always a suspicious thing in the woods, and we advise the reader to give it a wide berth should he happen to be traveling in a country infested by hostile savages. 
               "Strange we didn't notice it before," thoughtfully said the sergeant. 
               "What, the deer?" 
               "No, the smoke. I shouldn't wonder if it came from a camp-fire made by Indians. It seems to be slowly disappearing. That's it," he instantly added; "the enemy have neglected to put out their fire, not calculating on our seeing it at this early hour." 
               "But what could have driven the deer into the swamp? The alligators will get it, sure!" 
               As Bolls spoke, there was an unwonted commotion among these ungainly creatures, several of which raised their huge heads and floundered toward the advancing animal, which, strange to say, continued its onward progress to the island, wading through sloughs of yellow water, pushing its way through dense canebrakes, over fields of black mud, now pausing and looking back, then coming on; again pausing and retreating, and again advancing, all the time in a walk, as if the timid creature was not in the least degree frightened at its surroundings, until it finally halts, looks behind for the last time, and then lies down. 
               "What a rash and foolish thing to do!" exclaimed the veteran, on witnessing this last act of temerity on the part of the deer. "No animal in its senses would lie down there." 
               "It must be tuckered out; I can almost see it crying," said Bolls, ready to shed tears himself. 
               "'Tisn't pleasant to look at, I acknowledge," returned the sergeant, sympathizing in his companion's distress; "but we are powerless to aid it." 
               "Suppose I fire a shot?" eagerly asked the recruit. "My gun is at the foot of the tree." 
               "Don't think of it, boy; we can neither spare the ammunition nor run the risk; it would be madness. Besides, if the natural timidity of yon doomed creature wasn't sufficient to deter it from venturing into such a place as this, swarming with its deadly foes, a shot from your gun wouldn't frighten it back or prevent the alligators from making a meal of it." 
                
               "Gracious! what a lot there is of the reptiles," said Bolls; "they seem to be gathering from all parts of the swamp like wolves around a wounded buffalo, and to keep together too. Look at that one raised up on his forelegs, and that other one with his head in the air as if making a signal. Did you ever see the like? They appear to understand each other's motions like human beings." 
               After this remark the soldier relapsed into silence, all his faculties being employed in observing the strange motions of the advancing group, whom he half suspected to be other than they seemed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               STRATEGY. 
               "I HAVE been watching them chaps for some time,-they are not alligators; you may laugh, sergeant," at last observed the recruit, "but when the leading fellow raised himself up I saw something black." 
               "Stuff, boy! the glare on the swamp has blinded you." 
               "I saw black, if I ever saw anything in my life; and, by golly! there 'tis again! And now they are heading right toward us." 
               "And leaving the deer behind them. That at least isn't the reptile's habit." 
               "Reptile!" repeated Bolls, by this time highly excited. "They are no more reptiles than you are. I believe in my soul they are Indians!" 
               As the recruit spoke, a plaintive cry rose shrill and near. Whence did it come, and what creature of the swamp had made it? Could it have been the deer, in mortal agony? No; the deer, when in peril, never utters a sound. The eagle screams, the crow caws, and even the rat squeaks; but the deer, like the sheep, makes no noise at the approach of danger,-it only weeps. 
               "The chief! don't you hear him?" exclaimed the sergeant, as the cry again rose, seeming to pervade the air, the island,-the swamp itself. 
               "I hear an awful screaming; where does it come from?" asked the recruit, looking up at the sky in astonishment. 
               "The fish-hawk,'' returned the sergeant, exultingly snapping his fingers. Then, shaking his fist at the group, which continued almost imperceptibly to advance, he added, "Come ahead, ye varmints! we aren't afraid of you now!" 
               "The deceiving creatures! Who would have dreamed of their taking that shape?" 
               "There's no shape Indians will not assume to accomplish a purpose. Them fellows must have been a good long while in the swamp, working their way to where they now are," reflectively continued the sergeant. 
               "I wish they would stick there." 
               "With all my heart, I wouldn't object; but it ain't likely they'll gratify us." 
               "But about the deer?" 
               "That's plain, boy; he's been wounded and driven into the swamp as a blind." 
               "Well, that beats all. But don't you think we had better be getting ready to meet 'em?" 
               "There's no need to hurry; they'll not venture here till after dark." 
               "Will that give us time to prepare, think you?" asked Bolls, further revolving the chances in his mind; and then, without giving his companion time to answer, he added, "Are you certain about the signal?" 
               As if in response, the cry again rose clear and distinct, this time seeming to come from beyond the other end of the island, and to attract the attention of the group, for the heads came together as if to consult; then, each taking a position, remained perfectly motionless. 
               "We have seen enough," said the sergeant, preparing to descend from the lookout. 
               "Have you any notion how many Indians there are?" questioned the recruit, once more scrutinizing the group. 
               "There cannot be less than six or seven, if only one is under a skin." 
               "Suppose there are two; one could hardly draw such a mass after him." 
               "Well, we can't stop to settle the question now; so, come along, boy." 
               "Don't be in a hurry, sergeant; let's find out all about them, now that we are here," said Bolls, deliberately counting the advancing reptiles,-"one, two, three, four, and the two off there,-twelve Indians, if, as is likely, they go in couples." 
               "You can add that one in the rear, making fourteen in all," said the sergeant, sliding down the tree, quickly followed by the recruit. 
               "We are all cowards in the dark," says some one. The observation is true. The best and most thoroughly disciplined troops are liable at any time, in a night attack, to be thrown into a panic, and for this reason a skillful officer will always avoid, if possible, such an engagement. Whenever we are so placed as not to be able to see danger, as it approaches, the bravest of us become timid and wavering. For a similar reason, when we know not from what quarter ter or under what form the dreaded evil may come upon us, we are filled with vague fears and forebodings. 
               Such, heretofore, had been the situation of Sergeant Atkins and his trusty follower. They were like men groping in the dark, not knowing when, or from what direction, or in what form, they would be assailed. But now that the intentions of the foe were ascertained,-now that his plan of operation was clearly known,-their courage returned, and they were ready with bold hearts and strong hands to encounter the peril. The two, moreover, as is always the case with men exposed to a common danger, had come to better understand and to respect each other, and the attachment which always existed between them had consequently been strengthened. Sergeant Atkins no longer called Bolls "booby," and Bolls no longer touched his cap when his "superior" condescended to speak to him. To tell the truth, he had no cap to touch, having left his a prize to Luste-Hadjo, who had no doubt preserved it as an interesting trophy. His head-gear now consisted of an exceedingly dirty bandanna handkerchief, which at some former period had graced the brow of Charley-Emathla, and descended, through his sons, to Bolls, who wore it with considerable misgiving as to its becomingness. 
               "It does not improve your beauty," the sergeant had observed, the first time his subordinate presented himself in his new head-dress. "You might pass muster as a half-breed, but they wouldn't let you in as a full-blood." 
               The remark was exceedingly aggravating and unprovoked, but Bolls had contented himself with a significant glance at his "superior's" turban,-a second edition of his own,-and the sergeant, taking the hint, had not alluded to the subject afterward. 
               We left the soldiers at the foot of the tree, where they paused long enough to secure their arms and consult as to the course they ought to pursue, now that it was certain they would be attacked. The situation, so far, barring the difference of numbers, was in their favor. They were in cover, while the enemy stood revealed,-his plans detected. It behooved them, therefore, to be wary, and to do nothing which might lead him to suspect that they had knowledge of his trick, the only effect of which would be that he would return in a new disguise,-one, perhaps, in which they would be unable to discover him. Such was the conclusion the sergeant came to, shrewdly observing, as he expounded the matter to Bolls, "That Indians were like spiders, and would spin a web around you before you knew where you were." 
               Reader, did you ever see a spider manuvring to catch a fly? Of course you have! With what extraordinary pains, what consummate cunning, does the creature go to work to accomplish its purpose! How patiently it waits; how motionless, and yet how wide awake and alert it is; and then with what tact does it contrive to get near its unsuspecting prey,-now creeping stealthily forward, now crouching low, hiding behind any chance projection, its eyes fixed, its mandibles working, its every attitude betraying hungry, eager, savage purpose! Well, it is our opinion, who have seen a great deal of the red man in one way or another, that Sergeant Atkins was exceedingly felicitous in his comparison,-Indians are very much like spiders. 
               "Do you think we can count on help?" asked Bolls, after the two had discussed the situation and made up their minds to defend themselves in the fortification. 
               "I know Bluesnake will do what he can to help us," remarked the sergeant. 
               "You seem to have great faith in Bluesnake." 
               "He has never failed me yet; there's a tie between us." 
               "What sort of a tie?" 
                
               "We are pledged to each other; but you wouldn't understand it if I were to tell you," gravely answered the old soldier. 
               "Yes, I think I would." 
               "We have smoked together, and exchanged pipes. Our breaths have gone through the same opening, and we are one in thought and feeling. In spirit we are never separated, however far apart we may be. I will go to him, and he will come to me, while life lasts, and afterward, if the good God permits." And the speaker looked up for a moment, and then reverentially bowed his head. 
               Bolls was silent for awhile, impressed more by his companion's manner than by his words; he then asked,- 
               "Have you the same faith in 'Old Gravity' and his sons?" 
               "They are Bluesnake's friends, and that's all I want to know of 'em," returned the sergeant, throwing his gun over his shoulder, and turning to go. 
               "A surly chap. He didn't seem to care to talk." 
               "He was angry at being forced to bring us here; and I don't wonder at it, considering that he keeps it as a sort of hiding-place." 
               "Well, sergeant," said the recruit, in a tremulous voice, "I, at least, will never desert you. I want you to promise me one thing." 
               The old soldier grasped his friend's hand, and feelingly replied, "I promise it, be it what it may." 
               "That we keep together. I couldn't stand it,-to be alone here, by myself, indeed I couldn't; I would go crazy in a day!" 
               "You'll find I shall stick as close as a bur to you," laughingly returned the sergeant. "I have as great an objection to being left alone as you have; and one thing you may count upon,-I'll get you out of this scrape, or 'go up the spout' myself." And with this mysterious figure of speech, well understood, however, by Bolls, who appeared to derive great consolation therefrom, the two hurried to their stronghold. 
               They find it occupied! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               TACTICS. 
               "DOWN, Bolls!" the sergeant spoke, in an energetic whisper. 
               The sailor never thinks of questioning an order at sea, the woodman never dreams of questioning an order in the woods. The recruit crouched at the word. There was silence for a full minute. The sun poured its fierce rays into the thicket, bright flies darted like streaks of living flame from bush to bush, spiders remained stationary in their webs, reptiles burrowed in the mud, tiny creatures hid away in the leaves, the hum of insects had ceased. 
               "What is't?" asked the younger of the two soldiers, with his mouth close to his superior's ear. 
               "Hist! don't look up, for your life. I saw an Indian in camp!" 
               "Are you certain?" said Bolls, all aglow. 
               "As certain as one can be who had only a glance." 
               "Did he see you?" 
               "I think not; his head was turned away." 
               "What is to be done?" asked the recruit, after a pause, during which the two could almost hear their hearts beat. 
               This was an important question, and the old soldier took time to answer it. "There are two plans 1 think of," he slowly replied,-"we might make a rush and surprise him, or one of us could go round and get him between us; I think this last course would be the safer." 
               "Won't it separate us?" asked Bolls, with a sudden dryness of the throat. 
               "Only for a few minutes." 
               "Well, sergeant, it's for you to say what we are to do," said the junior, with a resigned air. 
               "Hold the trail whilst I go round, and shoot him if he comes this way." 
               The recruit braced himself up, and, with a silent grasp of the hand, Sergeant Atkins crept past him, and, having gained what he considered a safe distance in the trail, rose to his feet and made his way as rapidly as he could to the upper end of the island, and thence to the tree from which Bolls had set out on his novel journey. Mounting it, he proceeded, with due caution, toward camp. The old soldier accomplished in a few minutes what would have taken him, under other circumstances, a much longer time; for danger is a marvelous quickener of the faculties of both mind and body, and he knew that everything depended on the celerity and decision with which he acted; but, tread as lightly as it was possible, he could not prevent a slight rustling of the leaves and vibration of the boughs, as he made his way from tree to tree. He soon reached a point where he could see into the camp, and eagerly scanned it; but nothing unusual was to be seen, not even one of the little animals whose peculations had so annoyed Bolls. The place, in fine, seemed to be in as solitary a state as when he had first visited it with the chief. He rubbed his eyes, thinking, perhaps, they might have played him false. Surely he had seen an Indian sitting on that log,-of course he had, it was idle to say he had not,-just there, with his head turned away, waiting, as it seemed, for some one. He remembered the color of his hunting-shirt, and cut of the leggings, with tags up and down the sides. But no one was there, nor sign that any human being but himself and follower had ever been there; and, almost forced to believe that he had been the victim of some strange optical illusion, the veteran, now almost recklessly exposing himself, made his way into camp. Crouching low, on arriving there, he warily waited, expecting every moment to be assailed with uplifted weapon; and it was not until he had scrutinized every nook and corner where a savage foe could by any possibility lie concealed, and found no one, that he at length ventured to rise to his full height, and call aloud to his follower, who had remained on his hands and knees in the trail. 
               "Where's your Indian?" demanded the latter, rising and coming forward, with a broad grin on his face. 
               "I saw him, if ever I saw any one," answered the sergeant, gazing around with a bewildered air. 
               "Whereabouts?" 
               "Sitting on that log, a rifle across his knees." 
               Bolls laid down his gun, and examined the ground near the object indicated, as well as the log itself, his recent experience of Indian wiles having taught him the necessity of being cautious how he proceeded in matters where they were concerned. "I see only our own tracks," he finally said; then instantly adding, "but here's a go!" 
               "What is't?" eagerly inquired the sergeant. 
               "An arrow-head sticking up." 
               "An arrow-head?" repeated the old soldier, with a puzzled air. 
               "With beads around it." 
               "What's the color of the beads?" 
               "Blue." 
               "The first part of the guide's name; but it's not the way he would write to me. If you can't see the drawing of a pipe on--" 
               "Here 'tis, traced in the ashes,-an all-fired big one, with a little Indian smoking it!" 
               "A letter from Bluesnake, by all that's good!" joyfully exclaimed the sergeant, "Strange I didn't know him. But why does he keep dark? He must be looking at us now." The speaker glanced around him, and slightly raising his voice, added, "We have treed you, old fellow; so you might as well come out!" 
               Before the words could be repeated the graceful form of the guide arose from the bushes, and held up a hand by way of caution. 
               "Welcome, my boy!" cried the sergeant, hastening forward to meet his friend. 
               "Bluesnake is glad to see his father," gravely returned the Indian. 
               "Not half as much as I am to see you. How did you get here?" 
               The guide smiled, and glanced at the trees. 
               "Well, I came that way, too," said the sergeant, in answer to the Indian's glance. "I knew you by your mark; I felt sure I couldn't have been mistaken. You might have winged me up there." 
               "My father is big," replied Bluesnake, brushing the twigs from his person; "I have been watching him all the time." 
               "Where's Charley-Emathla?" 
               "In the Alachua, with his sons." 
               "Well, boy, we have seen the Indians," said the sergeant, with a triumphant air. 
               "Where?" quickly asked the guide. 
               "Out there, playing the part of alligators." 
               Bluesnake again smiled. "My father has good eyes." 
                
               "Bolls twigged them first." 
               He turned an approving glance on the recruit, who tried to look unconscious that he had done a smart thing, but signally failed. Nothing excites an Indian's admiration more than to detect a snare laid to entrap you. 
               "Will, the chief come to our assistance?" asked the old soldier. 
               "Not unless you need it." 
               "You will come?" 
               "What am I here for?" 
               "How many of the enemy are besieging us?" inquired the sergeant, heartily ashamed of his last question. 
               Bluesnake held up both hands, the fingers extended, saying, "So many, and a big chief,-Tiger-Tail." 
               "When may we look for him to attack us?" 
               "To-night,-to-morrow." 
               "Which amounts to saying, you can't tell. Does he know we are here?" 
               "There are smart Indians along, and he will soon find out." 
               "He will have to do some tall fighting, then," said the sergeant, with a dash of his old manner. "And, now, guide, aren't you hungry? won't you take something to eat? We have plenty of grub." 
               An Indian never refuses food; his appetite is always good, his digestion perfect; to him dyspepsia, with its attendant evils, is an unknown disease. 
               Bluesnake instantly sat down; the two bustled about, and soon produced the best their larder afforded, the sergeant mean while being brimful of questions. The reader will please consider that for some time he had not had a chance to talk to any one but the recruit, who, as a listener, was not to be compared with his old acquaintance. 
               "You will observe, my son," began the old soldier, laying ing before his friend the better half of a broiled rabbit, with a double handful of boiled eggs, whose age and origin, to say the least, were equivocal, "the enemy will not venture to attack us till they have found out all about this place." 
               The Indian took possession of the rabbit, bit out a huge mouthful, and then gravely nodded. 
               "That's not such an easy matter." 
               He took another bite, and then found time to look doubtful. 
               "At all events, they must first reconnoiter us, and learn something of the ground," insisted the sergeant. 
               "My father mustn't trust to that," said the guide, between bites. "Indians are quick in discovering signs which the white man can't see." 
               "I know it, boy, and will bear it in remembrance. But it does seem to me that it would be impossible even for Indians to attack us in such a place as this without having first acquired some knowledge of its ins and outs. We have not been idle, and don't know all its turnings yet. Must we defend ourselves here?" 
               "No, it's too open; they will see my father, but he will not be able to see them." 
               "You want us to stay near the camp, but not in it,-is that what you mean?" 
               "Yes." 
               "But how will they attack us? You can give us notice of their approach, at least?" 
               "Bluesnake will be near when his father wants him," said the guide, finishing the rabbit, and bolting the boiled eggs as if they were so many plums. 
               "Suppose they should happen to catch us asleep?" apprehensively asked Bolls. 
               "That would be foolish," replied the Indian, swallowing an egg, and then turning gravely to his questioner; "the deer doesn't sleep when the hunter is after him." 
               "One of us can sleep while the other watches," interposed the sergeant. 
               "That would be better; you must not forget that it is Indians who are hunting you. Tiger-Tail is a great warrior." 
               "I am aware of it," answered the sergeant, "and for this reason I would like to have some concert of action between us. Bolls and myself can dispose of three or even four of the enemy, but half a dozen would be more than we could manage before you could have time to come to our support." 
               "You must wait and see. If Tiger-Tail comes in the dark, I, too, will come in the dark; if he creeps upon my father, I will creep upon him; my father need not fear. I can say no more,-I must go," 
               "Why hurry, my son?" urged the sergeant. "It's several hours yet to dark, and I have much to speak of." 
               Bluesnake quietly resumed his seat, and the sergeant continued: "I shall hide, and compel the enemy to hunt me; they must expose themselves in doing so." 
               The guide nodded, adding, "The beaver is always safer in the water." 
               "I shall pile brush in the trail leading to camp," pursued the old soldier, speaking, as it were, against time. 
               "Good! The beaver closes up the entrance to his lodge, and lives safely through the winter." 
               "Can we use our guns?" 
               "Guns make a noise, and will betray your whereabouts. Knives would be better." 
               "Bolls has no knife." 
               Bluesnake drew his from the sheath, and handed it to the recruit. 
                
               "What will you do for one?" 
               "Don't want one." 
               "You have a gun, of course?" 
               He shook his head. 
               "No knife, no gun! How, then, are you to help us?" 
               Bluesnake, for answer, took out a flint and steel, and, striking a light, made the smallest possible fire. He then produced a pipe and some tobacco, and proceeded to smoke. Sergeant Atkins knew his companion too well to question him just then; so he, too, indulged in a whiff, helping himself to a trifle of tobacco from his friend's pouch. A smoke is always a grave and deliberate proceeding with an Indian, and Bluesnake finished his pipe before speaking again. Then, apparently coming to a conclusion, he rose to his feet, and said sententiously,- 
               "If Tiger-Tail comes, my father knows what to do. He has strength, courage, and a knife in his belt,-let him strike and defend himself. Friends will be nigh, and will help him, if necessary." 
               The veteran bared a brawny arm, and said, "I'll do my best. And now, warrior, a word as to yourself,-how did you escape from the town?" 
               "I talked to the people, and they believed me. Oseola wanted to kill me, and Apiaca delivered me over to the Prophet; but Micco-nope favored me,-so I got free." 
               "Good for Micco-nope! I owe him one for that. And the Indian we chased into the village,-what was his name?" 
               "Itunwah!" returned the guide, with a deep breath. "A bad Indian-he is out there with the others." Then repeating his injunction to use their knives, in case of being assailed, he took his departure, first formally shaking hands with the soldiers. 
               As soon as he was gone, the beleaguered soldiers set to work to fortify their stronghold by piling brush in the trail, and constructing blinds, behind which they could lie concealed and watch the approaches. 
               "Strange as it may seem, Bolls," said the sergeant, after everything had been satisfactorily arranged, and they were about to retire to their "citadel" in the thicket, "I believe that our greatest danger will come from the trees." 
               "I have no fear of them,-Gopher Hole is my apprehension. I would sooner face all the redskins in Florida, trees or no trees, than be shut up there." 
               "The thing will be decided in twenty-four hours." 
               "Twenty-four minutes is too long." 
               "How much grub have we for a siege?" asked the sergeant, changing the subject of conversation,-a sore subject with the recruit, as the reader will presently see. 
               "Plenty, such as it is," grumbled the latter. "But I can't imagine how the Indian is to help us, without gun or weapon of any kind,-a funny idea that." 
               "He has something in his mind: of that you may rest assured," said the sergeant, leading the way to their hiding-place. 
               Bolls examined the knife which the guide had given him, felt its point and edge, and then giving expression to his thoughts, as he followed his, as it seemed to him, overconfiding friend, said, "Well, if he's tricky, he has a queer way of showing it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               TACTICS VERSUS STRATEGY. 
               WE have read somewhere of a Bluenose
                     An inhabitant of the province of New Brunswick.
                   who, having purchased from a Yankee a dog warranted to hunt wolves, put his prize on the scent and followed him. 
               "My friend," said he to a traveler whom he met on the road, "did you see a dog, chasing a wolf, pass this way?" 
               "A brindle dog?" 
               "Yes." 
               "With a stump-tail?" 
               "Exactly so." 
               "They passed me," said the traveler. 
               "How was it with them?" anxiously inquired the Blue-nose. 
               "Well, it was about nip-and-tuck, but the dog was a little ahead." 
               Now we mean no offense to the sergeant,-we have too much respect for him to indulge in ridicule at his expense. He is, or rather was, a reality of long, long ago, whom we once liked as a friend and a trusty, honest, and, for his position, as our readers must have perceived, well-informed soldier. But we cannot help remembering that he had set out to chase an Indian and had ended in being chased himself,-that he had "gone out to shear, and come back shorn. "This is very apt to be the case with the imprudent, the hasty, the reckless, or impulsive,-with all in fact who neglect the old adage, "to look before you leap." 
                
               Gopher Hole, to which our adventurers had retired after the conversation recorded in the previous chapter, was anything but an agreeable place to be cooped up in, and it must be confessed that Bolls' objection to being besieged there was not without force. The sun's rays, beating upon it through the day, made the air stifling hot, and it might not inaptly be compared to a heated oven. But at night the place was almost unbearable, for, in addition to the heat, myriads of tiny insects came to torment the occupants, like light cavalry on disordered ranks. To kill a mosquito is poor consolation for the misery it inflicts upon you. It is such an insignificant creature, with such mighty powers of mischief. It is so excruciatingly tormenting, so tantalizingly cunning, and yet so easily slain. And Bolls, tender-skinned Bolls, felt that the immolation of the entire species would not compensate him for a moment's suffering. The poor fellow was indeed a martyr to these pests,-they haunted him by day, and never ceased to torment him through the (not) silent watches of the night. His hands-to say nothing of his feet (mosquitoes are very partial to the extremities, making their approaches with sound of trumpet, and by first attacking the outworks)-looked like a couple of baked hams, so awfully were they scored. Indeed, from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, he was one huge mosquito-bite! "Why are they so fond of me?" Bolls had repeatedly asked, but Sergeant Atkins was unable to answer this pathetic question. Whenever, however, the recruit alluded to the subject, he did all he could to reduce his follower to a state of comparative quietude by indulging in those rambling remarks with which the mental knapsack of the veteran was so well stocked. But mosquitoes were not the soldiers' only trouble. What if they would have to remain in Gopher Hole, encompassed by their subtle and remorseless foe! How were they to rest, to sleep, to pass the time, sweltering like salamanders in that horrible den? Above all, what were they to do for water? The merest trifle of food-a few grains of corn, an old moccasin, even the swarming plagues around them-would sustain life, if need be; but water they must have at any and all risks. This last reflection particularly alarmed Bolls, who suddenly looked up, in the midst of his troubles, and inquired: 
               "What are we to do when the water gives out? I'd rather be scalped than die of thirst!" 
               "My son, that's a very foolish remark," philosophically replied the sergeant. 
               "I have a notion to go outside and get some more." 
               "No, you won't! Take it coolly." 
               "Coolly!" groaned the sufferer. "Say that to a roasted pig!" 
               "I know it's awful hot in here," returned the veteran, wiping the perspiration from his face, "but you'll not feel it after awhile." 
               "Do eels get used to being skinned?" 
               "It can't last forever." 
               "Forever! I should hope not. You'd have to bury me in twenty-four hours!" 
               "Tush, boy! you have no idea how much heat you can stand. I have heard of a man going into an oven hot enough to bake bread, and coming out all right!" 
               "Well, I've no objections to any one's amusing himself in that way, if he's such a fool; but it's not to my taste." 
               "I wonder if we could make a road to the spring?" said the old soldier, who, though he had so peremptorily discountenanced Bolls' proposal, was himself really anxious lest the water should fail. 
                
               "Too late," morosely said his companion; "you ought to have thought of that before." 
               "I'll tell you what we can do," rejoined the old soldier, brightening up. 
               "What?" crustily asked the recruit. 
               "We can visit the spring after dark." 
               "And get scalped for your pains!" he returned, with an inconsistency not uncommon with the angry. "You may do so, but I have no desire to lose my hair,-what's left of it," he ruefully added, running his hand through his meager locks. 
               "As you please, boy. Thirst is a hard master, and reconciles us to strange shifts. I have heard of persons dying of thirst." 
               "It must have been in some such hole as this." 
               "No," said the sergeant, always prepared with an illustration, no matter what the situation, "on that part of the Plains which the Mexicans call Mesas, and we call Table-lands. I have traveled a round hundred miles on one, and not seen enough water to wet your finger to tell which way the wind blew. The Llano Estacado or Staked Plain is the most noted of' em, but there are others equally bleak and desolate, such as the Jourrada del Muerta or Death's Journey, along the Rio Grande. It runs over a great bend, of ninety miles across, with a few rocks in the center, the ground white and bare, air hot and stifling, and not a particle of moisture from one end of't to the other. I have crossed it, though, when I thought I saw a lake at every step; but it was only 'the mirage.'" 
               Forgetting in the turn thus given to the conversation all about the question as to how they were to obtain a sufficient supply of water, the sergeant divided the night into two watches, assigning the first-from dark to midnight-to Bolls, and appropriating the second-from midnight to daylight-to himself, at the termination of which it behooved them both to be awake and on the alert. This agreed upon and all preliminary arrangements made, the old soldier disposed himself to slumber, cautioning his companion, however, to arouse him at the first sign of danger. Taking his post, Bolls availed himself of the loop-holes heretofore alluded to. The darkness of the hole was profound, but there was light enough in the camp to render objects there visible, though they had a vague and shadowy appearance, quite different from their ordinary aspect in the daytime, as if they too were in league with the gloom to deceive him. Several times he was under the impression that he beheld some one moving about, which a closer scrutiny showed now to be a bush waving in the breeze, then a shadow shifting in the uncertain light. He heard a variety of noises, but he heeded them not; it was his eyes rather than his ears that he trusted. 
               Bolls woke up the sergeant when he thought it was midnight, for he had no means of computing time. The thicket lay in deep repose; its innumerable voices for an instant were hushed, as if its denizens were aware that something in their midst had stirred. Our adventurers were not the only watchers there. Both spoke in a whisper. 
               "Have you seen anything?" 
               "Nothing," briefly replied the sentinel. "The camp is still and deathlike." 
               "Well, go to sleep, boy; it's my relief now. I'll arouse you betimes." 
               Being completely exhausted by watching and anxiety, Bolls took the hint, and, plagues of all kind to the contrary, slept in turn. Sergeant Atkins, as his comrade had done, made constant use of the loop-holes. He could barely see the log on which Bluesnake had sat, the partially-consumed brands still aglow, the debris of former meals; he could distinguish a mass of foliage, but nothing to excite his fears; the place seemed to be entirely deserted. Once or twice he thought he observed a strange-looking object crouching under a bush, but a second glance satisfied him that it was only a stump. Observing nothing suspicious in camp, the old soldier cast up his eyes and scanned the trees overhead. Their greatest danger, after all, might come from that source, as he had remarked to Bolls. Why do the boughs shake and the leaves tremble so? Can it be possible that an Indian is hid in them? 
               "They are capable of that or any other subterfuge; and for my part," added the old soldier to himself, "I wouldn't be surprised to see one at any moment dropping from the sky." 
               The sergeant continued his watch, his muscles quivering with excitement and his rifle ready, but there was no repetition of the movement, or if so, it was caused by the wind. Daylight came somber and gray. The moon had been down for some time, leaving the camp in darkness and gloom. 
               "Wake up, Bolls, it's morning," whispered the sergeant, cautiously touching his companion, as the first faint light found its Way into camp. 
               "All right, I'm ready," returned the recruit, rubbing his eyes. "Have you seen anything?" 
               "No; but it's time to be alive." 
               "Alive it is. What's the orders, sergeant?" 
               "Fire on anything approaching camp." 
               "That would be letting 'em know where we are, and running right in the teeth of Bluesnake's orders, wouldn't it?" 
               "No matter,-fire on anything you see; it's better to die game than to be penned up here." 
               "I want a trifle more priming,-where's the powderhorns horns?" whispered Bolls, who had taken his rifle in his lap and was examining it. 
               "I gave 'em to you to bring in," 
               "They are not on my side," said the recruit, groping about him; "perhaps they are on yours." 
               "No," hastily replied the sergeant. 
               "They must be!" 
               "No, boy! I gave 'em to you to bring in: I'm sure of't." 
               "Then I have left 'em in camp!" said the recruit, with a cold tremor running up and down his back. 
               "That's a bad lookout," gravely said the sergeant. "Think again,-are you certain?" 
               "I left 'em hanging to a limb of the magnolia," replied the recruit, gasping. "I remember all about it now." 
               "Well, it's no use 'crying over spilt milk,'" said the sergeant, after a pause; "one of us must go for 'em." 
               "Let it be me," pleaded the recruit. "It's my fault they were left." 
               "Do you think you could manage it?" 
               "I know the exact spot where I hung 'em; I can go and return in a minute." 
               "Go, then, and the Lord be with you! And mind, Bolls, whatever happens,-no hesitation, no dallying, no delaying. If the enemy take you, submit at once; cough, sneeze, give me notice of some kind, and it will go hard but I'll find means to rescue you. Perhaps I may be able to communicate with our friends, though it's doubtful. In any event, I will never desert you. And now good-by, my son." 
               Sergeant Atkins turned away more affected than he was willing to show; and entering the trail, the recruit proceeded, on his hands and knees, toward camp. Arrived there, he glanced cautiously around, but could see nothing. The shadows were deep, the darkness profound, the silence almost painful. 
                
                
               
                   
                     "If the blue-jacket speaks, I will stick him!" Page 259. 
                  
                
                
               Observing nothing suspicious in the place, he finally rose to his feet, and, summoning all his courage, glided to the magnolia. The powder-horns were there. Grasping them, with a chuckle at his success, Bolls slipped the straps over his head, and had turned to make his way back, when he felt himself seized from behind. Two naked arms, soft and smooth as velvet, but as inflexible as steel, overlapping each other like the tentacles of the "pieuvre," rose up from the ground and pinned his arms to his side, holding them, as it were, in a vice, whilst a deep voice whispered in his ear, so that he could feel the hot breath, "If the blue-jacket speaks, I will stick him!" and, simultaneously with the threat, Bolls felt a sharp point thrust rudely against his side. 
               Our novice was no coward, as the reader knows. He had nerve and presence of mind in danger. To use his own language, "he was not born in the woods to be scared by an owl!" Still he could not help feeling a thrill of horror passing through his frame as he realized that he was there in the dark, alone, in the hands of a savage. Should he give some signal intimating his capture, as the sergeant had advised? That was the thought which instantly occurred to him; but, cowed by the threat of his captor, sternly enforced as it was, he quickly dismissed the idea and resolved to submit quietly to his fate. He accordingly allowed a belt to be drawn over his mouth; his ankles and wrists to be bound with thongs, and himself laid flat upon the ground, having determined, however, in his own mind to make use of the first opportunity of escape which offered, no matter what risk he would have to run. 
               Sergeant Atkins waited impatiently for his follower to return. The moment he was beyond recall, he reproached himself for letting him go. He should have gone himself, not sent a boy-a mere child, knowing nothing of the wily enemy he had to deal with-on such a dangerous expedition. Sufficient time had now elapsed for Bolls to have gone to camp and back, however circumspectly he might have proceeded, and the old soldier became alarmed. "What could have become of him? Was he captured, or had he seen the Indians, and hidden? Or, not finding the powder-horns, had he resorted to the lookout in search of them?" This was hardly possible, for the sergeant distinctly remembered having brought his into camp, and handed it to his follower to bring into the hole. Again, if the recruit was taken prisoner, he would have given some warning of his capture,-cried out, made a noise,-that was the understanding. But nothing of the kind had happened,-not even a mouse had squeaked,-and this was the strangest part of the business. The whole affair was wrapped in gloom and mystery, and the old soldier was now seriously frightened. 
               Meanwhile daylight came on apace, and whatever was to be done must be done quickly. Sergeant Atkins could bear the suspense no longer. He had worked himself into a state of intense anxiety. If Bolls was captured, he, too, would be taken prisoner. He would go to his friend's assistance, though all the savages in Florida stood in the way; at the worst, they could but kill him, and that was all about it. The old soldier had his notions of honor. 
               Entering the trail, he crept toward camp. Arrived there, he looked cautiously around. There was not sufficient light as yet for him to see distinctly surrounding objects. He felt safe, however, so long as he remained at the entrance into the bushes, for nothing could come behind him. But he knew that, once out of it, he could be assailed on every side. It is at such times that a man wants eyes in his back as well as in his front,-arms behind as well as before him. 
                
               "Now or never," thought the sergeant, rising, with knife in hand, and stepping into the opening. The place was profoundly still; not a sound was to be heard; and, reassured by this, though his lifelong experience had taught him to distrust all such equivocal signs, as we have heretofore remarked, he groped his way, with outstretched arms, to the log. Reaching it, he stood a moment undecided, and then ventured to softly utter his companion's name. If Sergeant Atkins were a magician, and had the power to summon spirits who would come at his call, he could not have been more promptly answered; but it was by beings in material form. Dusky figures issuing from the shadows,-dark forms, seeming to start out of the ground at his very feet,-thronged about him. He felt himself suddenly grasped and enfolded, as if some hideous monster of the swamp had him in its toils, whilst the silence was broken by the fierce yells of a dozen savage throats. 
               We have said that the old soldier was a muscular man; he was more than muscular,-he was powerful. In a wrestling-match few white men could cope with him, and he had never met his equal among Indians. Never was this prodigious strength more needed than now, and never was it more imprudently exerted. With a terrible effort he tore loose from the iron clutches of the Indians, and, with wonderful quickness, drove his knife full into the breast of two of his assailants, sending them reeling back, and crying their death-song. Before he could strike again he was borne down, and made captive by overwhelming numbers. A single whoop, mingled with a wail for the fallen braves, proclaimed the victory of the savages over the formidable blue-jacket. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               TURNING THE TABLES. 
               "I GIVE up," said the sergeant, ceasing his unavailing efforts, and looking wistfully around. "Where's Bolls?" 
               "Here, sergeant," answered a muffled voice, which sounded a great ways off. "Here's what's left of me." 
               "Keep up your courage, boy. 'Never say die!' I've been in just as bad a fix, and worked my way out. You needn't tie so tight, redskin," he added, to a savage who was making himself particularly busy; "I promise not to escape so long as you hold that boy prisoner." 
               The Indian instantly comprehended the relation existing between the old soldier and his follower, and, savage-like, at once proceeded to take advantage of it. Raising the recruit in his brawny arms, as a mother takes up a child, he carried and laid him gently down beside the sergeant, who was allowed to sit up and look at his protg in the faint light of the camp. 
               "What will graybeard give if I let him go?" the warrior asked, pointing to the prostrate soldier. 
               "Not a copper," answered the veteran, almost with a groan. 
               "Graybeard is a chief, and has whisky a heap." 
               "Do your worst, redskin;-I know your ways." 
               "Does the blue-jacket feel that?" said the savage, passing his knife through the recruit's arm. 
               Sergeant Atkins winced, but Bolls bravely cried out, "No; try it again, you greasy reptile!" 
               The Indian put up his knife, and deliberately plucked out a handful of the old soldier's beard. 
                
               It was Bolls' turn to wince now, but the sergeant firmly said, "Take more, you painted devil!" 
               The savage patted his prisoner on the back, and laughingly said, "Graybeard is a great warrior, and knows how to die. I will not tease him any more if he will tell Itunwah why he followed him to the town." 
               "To capture you," he boldly replied. 
               "Why to capture me? I had done you no wrong." 
               "You had scalped a white man." 
               "Was he your son?" 
               "No." 
               "Your brother?" 
               "No." 
               "Your friend?" 
               The sergeant shook his head. 
               "Now I see you are a double-tongue," said the savage, unable to comprehend the other's motive. 
               "You killed a white man, and that's enough." 
               Itunwah again drew his knife,-this time with a more deadly purpose,-when a third party interfered. The elder of the soldiers recognized him as Tiger-Tail, a chief whom he had before seen in the ball-plays at Fort King,-the name having been given him by the officers, from the fancied resemblance of his head-gear to a tail as it stood out in the act of running. This person now stepped between the savage and his victims. "Itunwah must leave them to the council," he said. 
               "They killed Tuskegee and wounded Hallac," scowlingly returned the savage. 
               Tiger-Tail bent his head in assent. 
               "They must die for it" 
               "M'ka, yes." 
               "Then my brother will stand aside," he continued, in a more placable tone. 
                
               The chief did not move. 
               "Does my brother hear?" The savage touched him gently on the shoulder. "Tuskegee calls." 
               The party addressed bent forward and affected to listen, then shaking his head, he said, with a grim smile, "It's a long ways off to the hunting-grounds." 
               "Tiger-Tail must be careful!" angrily cried the savage. 
               The chief scornfully laughed. A laugh is sometimes of the nature of a blow. 
               Itunwah drew back, and, sheathing his knife, said, with a menacing air, "I appeal to the warriors." 
               Tiger-Tail signified his assent to this proposition-a proposition he could not refuse-by turning coldly away. 
               An angry "talk" now ensued with the savages, several-the majority, in fact-insisting on the immediate sacrifice of the prisoners; the rest on their being taken back to the town, and delivered up to the council, who would order what should be done with them. This last course would have had the approval of all if, unfortunately, the sergeant had not stricken down two of the party, and thus laid himself and follower open to retaliation. The discussion itself was an ordinary occurrence. There are no more prolific causes of quarrels among Indians than the division of booty and disposal of prisoners. A "free-fight" generally follows, if whisky forms a part of the spoils; and God help the women and children if captured at the same time! Massacre is the least evil to be dreaded,-a worse fate is to be held in bondage. The Apaches rarely put captive women and children to death, either adopting or holding them as slaves, and trading them off from one band to another, sometimes for a horse, a piece of calico, or plug of tobacco. We speak now particularly of Mexican women and children, for they have no mercy on Americans. A white skin is their abomination. They hate it as the type of a race which is destined, sooner or later, to "wipe them out." On the contrary, they tolerate the Mexicans, because the great mass resemble them in appearance, and are not very dissimilar in habits and customs. It is easy for a Mexican, but an impossible thing for a white man, to become an Indian,-both races revolt at the transformation. Some account of the Apaches, who are the most formidable tribe of savages in the country, may, perhaps, prove not uninteresting to the reader. We will therefore take the liberty further to interrupt the course of our story here in order to say a few words about them. New Mexico in the United States,
                     At the date of our story New Mexico did not form a portion of the United States,
                   and Chihuahua,
                     Pronounced Chi-wa-wa.
                   Durango, and Sonora in the Republic of Mexico, are the favorite foraging-grounds of the tribe. The wretched inhabitants of those frontier States are kept in constant terror from the frequent incursions of these Indians. Vast numbers of women and children, to say nothing of cattle, horses, etc., are annually carried off, the raiders having the temerity to enter the towns and demand tribute of the inhabitants,-dancing, sometimes, in the very plazas. They take care, however, not to strip their victims too bare,-on the principle that "it is not wise to kill the goose that lays the golden egg." 
               In New Mexico, along the Rio Grande, when a "ranche" is attacked, the inhabitants retire to the houses, bar the doors and windows, huddle together in a room,-men, women, and children,-and fall to praying to a saint, a picture of whom is always to be found hanging up in a little tin frame. If the suppliants escape, it is a miracle, and if they are killed, it is a judgment for their sins; so that San Francisco, San Juan, or San Guadaloupe, has the glory in any contingency. 
                
               When the evil becomes intolerable, that is to say, when the Indians make too frequent incursions, or are too exacting in their demands, a grand retaliatory expedition into the enemy's country is gotten up, the inhabitants for a great distance around blowing horns, arming themselves with ancient firelocks and rusty swords, putting on huge silver spurs that jingle like sleigh-bells and would have fascinated Don Quixote himself, covering their horses with stamped leather trappings, lustrous with little silver knobs, and riding furiously from ranche to ranche, twirling their mustaches, and talking big of what they intend doing, swearing by all the saints in the calendar that the time had come to extirpate "los Indios," and finally sallying forth to lay waste the enemy's crops, burn his villages, kill his cattle, and make "peons" of such of his women and children as are so unfortunate as to fall into their clutches; but more frequently to be ignominiously driven back to the ranches, where they hasten to attend a cock-fight and "bail," or to head a procession in honor of some saint. Thus there is perpetual war-an "irrepressible conflict"-between the two races; but, strange to say, the captives on both sides soon become reconciled to their fate, evincing no desire to return to their people. This is especially the case where they have been taken young. 
               "You are a Mexican?" said we to an Apache brave, whom we met in Arizona. 
               "Si, seor; uno captivo," he complacently answered. 
               "How long?" 
               "Muy chicito,-since very little." 
               "Could you go back to your people if you pleased?" 
               "What's to prevent me? I'm a warrior," said the savage, looking up in surprise. 
               We left Itunwah and Tiger-Tail, each backed up by a party, disputing as to the disposition to be made of their prisoners. 
               "They killed Tuskegee and wounded Hallac," again said the savage, pointing impressively to the fallen braves. 
               "I promised Oseola to take them back to the town. I have said it!" sternly retorted his opponent. 
               "They deserve death!" 
               "M'ka, yes; but not now." 
               "Now!" cried the savage, once more drawing his knife. 
               The chief again interposed, and a fight between the disputants on both sides seemed to be imminent, when a mournful cry startled the party. It was the wounded man singing his death-song. 
               "Hallac calls; don't you hear him?" cried Itunwah, fiercely, to the chief. 
               "He struck Hallac; let Hallac strike back," suddenly said a warrior. 
               This proposition was assented to by all, for it disposed of the cause of quarrel and at the same time satisfied the Indian's rude idea of justice. Two of their number had been stricken down; let the one who was able return the blow and kill their assailant. 
               Itunwah at once set to work to carry out the verdict. Helping the stricken one to his feet, he put a knife in his hand and slowly led him to the sergeant, who, meanwhile, had been cast on his back. The latter fully comprehended the peril he had to encounter, and lay wary and watchful, ready to take advantage of anything that might happen in his favor, but not condescending to show even by the quivering of an eyelid or shrinking of a muscle that he was an interested party in the proceedings now going on around him. 
               "Tuskegee has gone to the happy hunting-grounds," said the savage, as the Indian sank down on his knees beside the prisoner. "My brother is on the way." 
                
               "Hallac knows it, and is ready," he gasped, his head at the same time sinking on his breast. 
               "His friends will ask him why he comes empty-handed." 
               "He couldn't help it," eagerly returned the wounded warrior; "something struck him down." 
               "'Twas the blue-jacket,-see!" The tempter pointed to the bared breast of the old soldier. 
               "I cannot see," mournfully replied the other. 
               "He is here, under my brother's hand." 
               "Is the knife sharp?" 
               "Hallac can feel the point." 
               The Indian passed his trembling hand over the edge of the knife, and then asked, with strange indecision,- 
               "Who is the blue-jacket?" 
               "The pale-face that struck you?" 
               "But his name?" 
               "I know not," impatiently answered Itunwah. 
               "Is he bound?" The warrior drew timidly back as he put the question. "The deer is sometimes dangerous in the death-struggle." 
               "Strike! he is bound." 
               "Let me feel the cords." 
               Itunwah placed the speaker's hand on the sergeant's wrists. He allowed it to remain there for awhile and then passed it lightly over the old soldier's face and beard. What he felt evidently heightened an impression which seemed to be gradually shaping itself in his mind. Straightening himself up, he repeated his question in a more decided tone of voice: 
               "Does Hallac know the blue-jacket?" 
               "The loss of a little blood has made a squaw of my brother!" scornfully exclaimed Itunwah. 
               "Does Hallac know the blue-jacket?" The Indian this time bent over and addressed the prisoner. 
                
               "We may have met at Fort King, but I can't recall you to mind," the latter briefly replied. 
               "Strike! he's a stranger!" a second time furiously cried Itunwah; but the other heeded him not,-he had seated himself down and seemed to be absorbed in thought. Perhaps he was thinking of the past and trying to connect it, by some unremembered link, with the present. Suddenly turning to his companions, who stood around silently watching him, he said,- 
               "I once knew a graybeard at Fort King, who took Hallac into his lodge when the blue-jackets were teasing him, and spread a blanket for him to lie down upon. Hallac had been drinking fire-water, and couldn't see straight; his mind was in a cloud and he talked foolishly. Yet he said to himself: 'The pale-face is not always bad to the red man-this one is good-Hallac will remember him.' Do my brothers know who this graybeard was?" he abruptly asked. Then plaintively added, "I cannot see, I cannot hear, but Tuskegee says"-his voice now grew firm-"it's the 'talker of the blue-jackets,' and I mustn't strike." 
               Dropping the knife as he spoke, the wounded Indian, to the surprise of all, rose to his feet, staggered away a few paces, and sank down insensible. Catching up the weapon, Itunwah instantly sprung at the prostrate soldiers. A singular thing now happened. The savage's back was toward the warriors; a single bound took him to the sergeant's side, his hand raised, a fierce intent gleaming in his eyes; but before he could stoop to strike, something glanced toward him. What could it have been? What was it stayed Itunwah's hand, now that he had his enemy in his power? Did he see a specter in the gloom, or was he paralyzed? The savage stood a moment, with rigid frame and uplifted weapon, eyeing the thicket; then, suddenly turning, he fled from the spot. The warriors were seized with astonishment. Their companion's back having been toward them, they had not seen the cause of his rapid flight; but, as he turned, it was revealed, for there, sticking in his breast, from which he fiercely strove to wrench it, was an arrow. A belief in supernatural interpositions is innate with the Indian, and no sooner did Itunwah's friends behold him wounded, as it seemed by invisible hands, than, imagining that Massebe, the Spirit Hunter, or some other supernatural personage, had interfered on behalf of the prisoners, they uttered a wild whoop, and, panicstricken, rushed frantically from the camp, leaving it to the soldiers and the fallen braves. Shortly afterward four Indians emerged from the surrounding shadows, and hastened to cut the cords that bound the limbs of the prisoners; and it was light enough now in camp for the sergeant to see that the foremost of his rescuers was Bluesnake, who carried in his hand a bow; and he was therefore at no loss to know from what quarter the arrow that had saved his life had come. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               THE AMBUSH. 
               ON the 28th of December, 1835, at an early hour of the morning, three persons might have been seen seated in a thicket on the edge of a pond lying along the road which led from Tampa Bay to Fort King. The party were Indians, to judge from their appearance and accoutrements; but the moment they spoke it was evident that two of them at least were white men. As we dislike mystery, we at once confess that these two were Sergeant Atkins and Bolls, and the third was their friend and ally, Bluesnake. But what a change had come over the soldiers! Their mothers would not have known them; and "C" company would have been amazed at the plight of its first sergeant. All signs of uniform had disappeared, and were replaced by Indian costumes, much the worse for wear. Beards were shaved off, hair stained a dirty black, and trained with scalp-locks; and the natural color of their complexions concealed under a hideous coating of paint and pine-smut. The sergeant bore the transformation with dignity, and looked the character he assumed, of a burly, thick-set, well-conditioned Indian. But the appearance of the recruit was irresistibly comical, as, with turban awry, puffy cheek, and perspiration dripping from his nose, he bent over an old rusty rifle and tried to secure the lock with thongs, the screws having been lost, as is generally the case with Indian guns. 
                
               "The consarned thing is no go!" he testily exclaimed. "I wouldn't give a smooth-bore for a dozen of 'em." 
               "I'll fix it for my brother," said Bluesnake, good-naturedly tying on the lock. 
               "The musket is the proper weapon for a soldier," observed the sergeant, taking his pipe out of his mouth for the purpose of making this profound remark. 
               "Musket is no good here." 
               "Why not?" asked Bolls, prepared to argue the question. Bluesnake smiled. "Too many trees." 
               "It's all the better for that!" triumphantly asserted the recruit. 
               "lt can't see straight," continued the guide, shaking his head. 
               "That's because you don't know how to use it." 
               The Indian shrugged his shoulders, and again smiled. 
               "It's better than that rusty thing!" persisted Bolls, pointing to the rifle in the other's lap. 
               "This!" said the Indian, contemplating the weapon; "this is a good friend!" 
               "Oh, yes! when you can get it to go off!" 
               "It has often stood between me and danger," the guide thoughtfully continued; "it's a chief among guns." 
               Bolls laughed provokingly. 
               "It can talk across that pond." 
               He pursed up his mouth in a way that strongly indicated incredulity. 
               "It has killed a deer farther," said Bluesnake, nettled at last by the recruit's manner. 
               "Hist! Boys, why quarrel about nothing? What difference does it make which gun is best?" interrupted the sergeant, who was the usual mediator between the two. "The musket has its virtues, and so has the rifle; and it needs an experienced hand to bring 'em out. Fortunately we have had no use for either since leaving What-you-call-it Swamp." 
               "Okee-fi-no-kee," softly said the guide. 
               "Yes, Okee-fi-no-kee, and be hanged to it!" growled the sergeant. "I shall never forget the place, though I may its name." 
               "The swamp is big." 
               "Big enough, in all conscience! But how long were we there? I have lost all reckoning of time." 
               "Two moons." 
               "All of sixty days since leaving Black Creek!" 
               "My father knows the reason." 
               "I know it, and feel it too!" said the sergeant, looking ruefully at his dress. "This is nice toggery for the orderly sergeant of 'C' Company to be in!" 
               "Bad Indians watched the swamp, and we couldn't get out." 
               "Till you accomplished it, lad!" laughed the sergeant. "That last dodge of yours is worth remembering." 
               "Bluesnake is a great warrior!" complacently said the guide. 
               "I believe in my soul you are. But why have we taken this roundabout way in returning? If I understand the case, we are off here to the south of Fort King instead of being to the north of it." 
               "The straight path was dangerous," replied Bluesnake, tracing a line on the ground, and describing a semicircle on it. Then placing his finger at the center, he added, "This is Fort King, and we came around by Oclawaha,-so." 
               "A flank movement, well planned and executed," gleefully said the sergeant. "We are near the Withlacoochee River?" 
               "Off here, half a sun's walk." 
                
               "The cove there is a bad place?"
                     A great swamp lying between the Big and Little Withlacoochee Rivers, which, at the commencement of the war, was a favorite resort of the Indians. It was in and about the cove that General Clinch fought the "Battle of Withlacoochee River," and Governor Call the "Battle of Wahoo Swamp."
                  
                
               "For the white man,-yes." 
               "Has he ever visited it?" 
               "No; he can't find the way. Few Indians know it. The swammocks are deep, the undergrowth is difficult, the trees stand thick, no light at any time, and the alligators and snakes are big." 
               "A nice place to live in!" 
               "It's their home," returned Bluesnake, quietly. 
               "Your people may make a stand there, if it comes to a fight?" 
               "Perhaps" 
               "And get licked if they do!" 
               The Indian gravely shook his head, and the sergeant hastily added, having a faint suspicion that he had spoken foolishly, "But about Hallac,-the party whom I struck down in that unfortunate affair on the island,-do you think he will die?" 
               The guide opened his hunting-shirt, and, displaying a great scar on his tawny chest, replied, "The medicine-men blew on it and cured it. Hallac wasn't hurt so badly." 
               "I trust so, indeed; I would be sorry to have killed one who was my friend when I wanted a friend badly. And now, guide, a last question,-did you remain long in the town after the chiefs had released you?" 
               "No; I went to the Okee-fi-nokee, where I had agreed to meet Charley-Emathla, and watched over my father." 
               "And well you did it, boy!" cried the sergeant, grasping the faithful fellow's hand. The latter returned the hearty pressure, and for an instant these two dissimilar, yet closely united beings, gazed steadily in each other's faces. 
               "I love my father, and will follow him to the end; I am pledged to it; words are of no use; when the Great Spirit calls, I will be ready!" Bluesnake's voice trembled as he spoke. 
               "I know it, old fellow!" said the sergeant, wiping the moisture from his eyes; "I remember our bargain." 
               "I know my father's trail, and can tell it, in a heap," continued the guide, whose thoughts seemed to be far away; "his breath is sweet to my nose, his voice sounds pleasant to my ear." 
               "I talk too much, I confess," said the veteran, in a remorseful tone. 
               Bluesnake shook his head dissentingly. 
               "We understand each other, anyhow. Only remember one thing,-should I fall, I want you to save my hair." 
               The Indian stroked the old soldier's gray locks, and repeatedly nodded. 
               "Do you hear, my son? Don't let a savage get it." 
               "No!" 
               This was said so vehemently that Bluesnake himself started, and looked anxiously around. 
               "I shall not sleep quiet with my hair hanging up in a lodge." 
               An expression of indescribable ferocity came into the guide's face as he said, through his shut teeth, "An Indian had better take a rattler in his hand than scalp my father! I will kill him, though he hides away in the white man's fort!" 
               "I believe in my soul you would," chuckled the veteran; "not that I'm going to give you a chance. But what's the matter?" 
                
               Bluesnake was trembling violently. You may see the same thing in the pointer before he strikes the scent. 
               "What is't, lad?" whispered the old soldier, after a pause. 
               The Indian held up his hand by way of caution. The three listened intently; the thicket seemed to breathe,-or, did they hear their own pulsations? 
               "What is't?" again asked the sergeant. 
               "Hist! I feel my people," said the guide, looking eagerly around,-his ears quivering and his nose working like a hound's at fault. 
               "Where?" asked the startled soldier. 
               "Here," he replied, placing his hand on his breast. 
               "Pshaw!" said Sergeant Atkins, with a sigh of relief. "Is that all?" 
               Still Bluesnake trembled. There are certain conditions or phases of our being to which we are all more or less liable, and which perhaps will ever remain a mystery to us. We know not whether they arise from physical or supernatural causes. But whatever the source, we are uncomfortable, anxious, foreboding; we shudder, and are oppressed by an undefined dread of we know not what. Savages living in the open air, away from artificial restraints,-that is, being closer to nature,-are particularly subject to them. Bluesnake had twice before experienced like symptoms or premonitions,-once when his mother died, although he was away from the lodge at the time, and again when he accidentally killed his brother Wea. The two had been out on a hunt together, and, separating, Wea went into a thicket, and Bluesnake, mistaking his scalp-lock for the antlers of a deer, shot and mortally wounded him. 
               So the guide felt disquieted. He ground his teeth together as if he would crush them, and shook like one with the ague. A sort of magnetism seemed to emanate from his person; and you would have said, had you seen him thus rapt and absorbed, that every part of him was on the watch,-that eyes, ears, nose saw, heard, and smelt danger. Suddenly a spasm passed through his frame, and a mournful expression came over his face. Bending low, he gazed intently across the pond. Then, drawing the sergeant down, he pointed to where the mist had melted, and said, in the merest whisper,- 
               "Look there!" 
               "What is't?" eagerly asked the old soldier. "I see figures moving about." 
               "Indians!" returned the guide. 
               "What are they doing there?" 
               "Hiding." 
               "From us?" 
               "No." 
               "From whom?" 
               "S-e-e! my father must not talk; I hear horses." 
               "It must be travelers." 
               "No,-soldiers." 
               "Soldiers!" cried the sergeant, starting up. Bluesnake grasped the veteran's arm, and said in a fierce whisper,- 
               "Man! they would not know you in this dress!" 
               "But they shall know me: I must go." 
               "Then I go too," said the guide, releasing his hold; "but they will kill us on sight." 
               Sergeant Atkins sat down and covered his face with his hands. The advanced guard of a body of troops at this moment was seen approaching by the road that skirted the pond, on the other side of which the party were seated. The pond was not over two hundred yards wide, and was covered with a thick, gamboge-colored scum. Tall grass grew on its edge, and spread out into the pine-barren, high enough to conceal a crouching form from any one in the road, but not from the party hidden in the thicket, the ground being a trifle higher. The pine-barren extended an unbroken level on all sides, except toward the north and west,-a great hummock being in that direction. The command approached from the southwest, the pond lying to the east, and therefore on the right of the troops as they marched; the road bordering the pond, as before stated, a few feet from its edge. The advanced guard consisted of a dozen men marching by flank, preceded by two officers on horseback, one of whom was evidently the commander of the battalion. A light wagon drawn by oxen, followed the guard; it contained the baggage and subsistence of the command. A six-pounder gun drawn by horses followed the wagon, and then came the main body of the soldiers, consisting of two companies of artillery, also marching by flank, with arms at will, their dusty uniform and travel-worn faces showing that they had been some time on the road. The detachment, in fact, was on its third day's march from Tampa. Indians had been threatening it all the time, and, doubling their guards and throwing up intrenchments at all their camps, neither officers nor men had rested by day or slept by night. 
               The gun had joined them only the evening before, having been left behind four miles from Tampa. Its presence was most inspiriting to the command as it rolled grimly along. The men had called it "Old Slow-and-Sure."-Soldiers are fond of giving names. 
               The second day out, Captain F-- had left a note in a cleft stick, stuck in a creek,
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                   addressed to Major M--, saying, "Hurry on; we are beset!" The enemy had burnt the bridge over the Big Hillsborough River, and this had delayed the command. All these things were disquieting, and officers and men were anxious, troubled,-wary. But they had just left the somber shadows of the hummock and entered the open pine-barren, where the Indians (so they reasoned) would not have the temerity to attack them, and, relieved of the apprehension of immediate danger, they chatted gayly and forgot their fatigue. Sergeant Atkins saw this at a glance. Thrice he started up to warn the troops of their peril, but each time the thought intruded itself that they would not know him in his Indian dress, and that he would only be causing the death of his friends, and he reluctantly sat down again. Ah, wretched man! Ah, foolish Charley Atkins! Who will pity you? Who will console you? Where now is your judgment,-your vaunted knowledge of Indians? You can be decided enough when a rash thing is to be done. Hurry, man, or they are lost! The advanced guard had passed the pond, the gun was opposite, the main body had halted and grounded arms, and the sergeant had again started up,-this time firm in his determination to warn the soldiers of their danger. But it was too late! A single rifle-shot cracked clear and crisp, riveting him to the spot. Hideous yells rent the air. Ominous fires flashed from the grass. Wreaths of light-blue smoke floated away. The wind sighed through the pines and seemed to say "Hush!" The sun veiled itself behind a great cloud, somber shadows fell athwart the scene, the birds fluttered about, the noises of the hummock ceased,-the lately placid woods trembled. The men stood irresolute,-a low moan is heard through the line. The very air seems filled with shudderings. It is astonishing what hallucinations seize upon the mind at such a moment. Corporal B-- saw the rifle-flashes, and said, "The grass is afire!" Poor little drummer-boy Joe noticed the wreaths of smoke, and cried to the fifer, "Look, Jem! ain't they beauties?" Private W-- felt something warm trickling down his arm, and thought it was profuse perspiration! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               THE MASSACRE. 
               THE advanced guard fell to a man. Half the main body were either killed outright or desperately wounded before seeing an enemy or firing a gun; the remainder scattered and sought cover. The attack was so sudden, so overwhelming, that it seemed to the sergeant like a hideous dream,-a delusion of the senses that could not be real. Resuming his seat, he covered his face with his hands and groaned with agony; and it was only when the firing had partially ceased, and he heard a voice crying "To the trees, men! to the trees, and give it to' em!" that he ventured to look up. What a horrible sight was before him! The advanced guard lay, in one dark cluster, dead in the road. A long line of blue coats along the ground marked where the main body had stood a minute before. "The oxen were down, with the yokes on their necks, as if fallen asleep."
                     Captain Hitchcock's report.
                   The gun, unlimbered, was being fired by a few desperate men. The rest were behind trees, fighting for their lives. It was indeed a sorry sight, and bitterly did the sergeant reproach himself. His fault it was that the command had been decoyed into the fatal ambush. His indecision had sacrificed it. Had he called out, and shown himself, it would have halted and escaped the snare. They might have shot him; but what of that? What was his life in comparison with the lives of a whole battalion,-comrades, whom he was bound at any sacrifice to save! Sergeant Atkins wrung his hands, and wept bitterly. It is a fearful thing to see an old man shed tears, and neither Bluesnake nor Bolls ventured to comfort him. 
               "Had it only been a fair fight," he at last exclaimed; "but to see them massacred in cold blood! Warrior, what shall we do?" 
               "Wait." 
               "What! and see the rest shot down?" indignantly cried the sergeant. 
               "My father must be patient; he can do no good now." 
               "Look at that sight, and then talk of patience! I am not a child, to be tickled with words." 
               "Bluesnake is sorry." 
               "I don't blame you, my son," said the old soldier, wiping his eyes. "I blame myself; and what in God's name am I to do?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "Recollect who and what I am. Can't we go to them?" 
               The guide touched his companion's dress, and replied, "They'll shoot you." 
               "I wish they had, before my eyes witnessed this horrid spectacle!" said the old soldier, big tears rolling down his cheeks. "Alas! I am disgraced, and shall never, never again show my face at the fort." 
               "'Tisn't your fault; you didn't lead the soldiers into the trap," returned the guide, amazed at the extreme distress of his friend. 
               "It is my fault!" he passionately exclaimed. "Blasted idiot that I am!" 
               Unable to comprehend this self-accusing vehemence of the old soldier, but deeply sympathizing in his grief, Bluesnake remained silent, the firing, meanwhile, gradually abating, and finally ceasing altogether. "It's over," he at length said. 
               "Are there any left?" 
               "A few." 
               "Count them, warrior,-I dare not" And the old soldier turned away his face. 
               "About forty," said Bluesnake, after a pause. 
               "Will they spare them?" 
               "No, they'll kill all." 
               The sergeant shuddered, and the Indian resumed: 
               "They have tasted blood, and will want more." 
               "Then God help the command!" 
               The guide bowed his head. He was not a Christian, but he reverenced the name of Deity, whether uttered in his own or in the white man's tongue. 
               "God help them!" repeated the sergeant, shivering. 
               Bluesnake sadly looked up. You would almost have fancied that a tear trembled in his dark eye. 
               "Warrior, do you hear?" 
               "I listen, my father." 
               "What do you advise me to do?" 
               He remained expressively silent. 
               "Can't we go to them now?" 
               He emphatically shook his head. 
               "Suppose we make a rush," pleaded the veteran, every muscle of his face working; "now is the time,-presently it will be too late; we are three able and determined men,-Bolls here is strong, I will answer for a dozen, and you, I am sure, will stand by us!" 
               The guide still shook his head. He was very pale. 
               "Bluesnake, we have sworn to aid each other." 
               "Yes." 
                
               "To the death!" 
               He slowly bent his head in assent. 
               "Well, this is my death!" 
               "No!" vehemently said the guide. 
               "I tell you it is, unless I go to them." 
               The Indian became livid, great drops of sweat gathered on his forehead, and he trembled like one with the palsy. Yet he did not hesitate. His form swelled, his nostrils dilated, and his scalp-lock erected itself, whilst his eyes grew luminous, and the lines about his mouth became stern and menacing, like the shut gate of a fort. The panther thus works itself into a rage. Taking from his pouch a box of paint, and opening it, he smeared the upper part of his face, from the corners of his mouth to the roots of his hair, a deep black, so as to produce the effect of a domino. He was never seen afterward without that mask. But we are anticipating. Seizing his rifle, he rose to his feet, tightened his belt, and deliberately said,- 
               "I'm ready, my father." 
               Sergeant Atkins grasped his gun, and started up,-a fierce gleam in his eye. The two men were about to carry out their desperate resolve, when Bolls, who had been an absorbed spectator of the fight, abruptly exclaimed,- 
               "Well, that beats the driver! They are felling the trees, and don't know how to chop!" 
               Sergeant Atkins looked, and saw that it was as Bolls had said,-the soldiers had laid aside their arms, and were using axes,-the sound of chopping was distinctly audible. The two sat down again. 
               "The enemy had retired over rising ground to the left."
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                   This had given the troops a "breathing spell," which they had taken advantage of to construct a small breastwork between the road and the pond. The work had one short and two long sides, not unlike a huge pair of compasses slightly opened, the short side being on the road; but it had great intervals between the logs, and was a poor defense at the best. Yet it was better than nothing, and if our sorely-tried friends could only have time to make it high enough, might serve to keep at bay the savage foe till succor could arrive. 
               It was now about nine o'clock in the morning, the attack having begun at eight, and this was the condition of things: of the hundred and ten, officers and men, who had marched from Tampa Bay with high hopes and gallant bearing, on the morning of the 23d of December, 1835, more than half had fallen beneath the short but terrible fire of the Indians. Horrible mortality! And what a fearful situation for the survivors! To go forward or to retreat was alike impossible. The command was sixty miles from Tampa Bay, and almost as far from Fort King, with dense hummocks and swamps intervening. If they could not successfully defend themselves then and there in the open pine-barren, what hope could they have in the hummocks and swamps? There was no alternative but to remain; and, with this gloomy conviction, some cut down the trees, some rolled the logs to an open space in front of the pond, others placed them in position, whilst the rest stood guard or succored the wounded. 
               Three officers remained standing, though badly wounded: Captain G--, Assistant-Surgeon G--, and Lieutenant B--. The latter commanded the cannon,
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                   which at first did good service in checking the advance of the enemy, although the shots were too high, as is generally the case when artillery is fired in a hurry. On these three wounded officers devolved the awful responsibility of saving the remnant of the command,-yes, of saving it, for that was the question now. 
               There was no time to discuss matters; a thousand things had to be done; it was very certain the troops could neither advance nor retreat; the enemy might return at any moment; the grim realities of the situation were indeed before them, and nobly did these officers act,-stationing the guard, caring for the disabled, adjusting the logs, and infusing a part of their own dauntless courage into those yet capable of using their weapons, or of doing aught to contribute to the common defense. 
               The men worked "with a will," as men who work for their lives, but it was plain to see that most of them were wounded, and would fain lie down. The officers encouraged them, but they, too, were bleeding; and this, with the extraordinary exertions which their fearful situation made necessary, was fast sapping their endurance and strength. It is, at such times, that true heroes show the stuff they are made of. 
               "Major D--, commanding the detachment, fell in the advanced guard, and his horse dashed into the midst of the Indians."
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                   The circumstances under which he assumed command are worthy of record, being alike honorable to both officers concerned. Captain G-- was to have commanded, and for this purpose had actually mounted his horse at "reveill" on the morning of the 23d, when a member of his family being suddenly seized with illness, his friend, Major D--, of the infantry, volunteered to take his place. The offer was accepted in the same kindly spirit in which it was made, and the troops marched. That afternoon, however, Captain G-- found an opportunity tunity of sending his sick relative, by the U. S. schooner "Motto," to Key West, where his children were; and, having performed this labor of love, he hastened to rejoin his company, which had halted only a few miles from Tampa. The relation in which he stood to Major D--, after the latter's kindness, of course precluded the idea of superseding him, and he accordingly proceeded under the major's orders.
                     Lieutenant B. Alvord's letter.
                  
                
               Captain F--, having ridden by the main body of the troops only a few minutes before the attack began, fell by the same volley that laid low his commanding officer, their bodies lying close together in the grass. They were friends in life, and "in death were not divided." Lieutenant M-- was disabled among the first, and sat with his head reclining against a tree, evidently dying. The interpreter, a black, named Lewis, laid down at the first volley, shamming death. His life was afterward spared, at the instance of a chief named Jumper, for the reason that, being able to read, he could interpret the dispatches and letters to the victors.
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                  
                
               A brief half hour might have been employed by the soldiers in constructing their breastwork. The ground-tier of logs was laid, the second was partially up, making a triangular inclosure about eighteen inches high, when the woods again echoed with the crack of rifles. The shots came from all parts of it,-from the grass, from the scrub-palmetto, from every conceivable point where a treacherous enemy could lurk; but nothing was visible,-only wreaths of light-blue smoke curling slowly upward. The soldiers fell, fast and thick. The trees afforded them no protection, for the poor fellows could not tell whether their enemy was behind them or before them. Occasionally they saw hands and arms protruding from the grass, but it was only for an instant,-there was nothing to aim at.
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                   Indeed, it made but little difference,-all unity of action was gone. The command-if those few despairing men could now be called a command-still fought desperately on, but almost without hope. Some silently sank down, some with a cry, and others with a low moan. A panic seized the rest, and, abandoning everything but their arms, they rushed wildly to the breastwork, and throwing themselves on their faces, still maintained the unequal struggle over it. But what, alas! could they do? What availed individual courage in that far-off "slaughter-pen" in the wilderness? 
               Captain G--, being severely wounded, cried out, "I can give you no more orders, my lads! Do your best!" 
               A negro afterward spurned his body, saying, with an oath, "That's one of their officers!"
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                  
                
               Doctor G-- knelt behind the logs, with two double-barreled guns by him, crying out, "Well, I have four barrels for them!" 
               "Lieutenant H-- had his left arm broken, in the first attack, but continued to load and fire a musket, resting it on the stump until he was finally shot down. During the day he kept up his spirits and cheered the men.
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                  
                
               "Lieutenant K-- had both arms broken, in the first attack, but they were bound up and slung in a handkerchief, and he sat for the remainder of the day, until he was killed, reclining against the breastwork, his head often reposing upon it, regardless of everything that was passing around him,"
                     Statement of an escaped soldier.
                  
                
               Lieutenant B--, being severely wounded, told private C-- to lie down and feign himself dead. The latter did so, and, on looking through the logs, saw the Indians approaching in great numbers, headed by a chief who, addressing them, pointed frequently to the breastwork. 
               The savages made a final onset,-it was feebly resisted; the massacre was accomplished. Every officer and every soldier, save three, of the ill-fated command, had perished.
                     Two of the three reached Tampa Bay; the third was overtaken and killed by the Indians.
                   Wrapped in their bloody shrouds, they lay stiff and stark in the breastwork, on the road, under the trees, beneath the grass, in the sunshine, and in the shadows,-a sad, a piteous, a horrible spectacle! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               THE RECONNOISSANCE. 
               THE savages had done their bloody work, and were gone. The sun was declining below the treetops, the bodies lay where each had sunk down in the desperate struggle,-some scalped, others having escaped that last indignity. Buzzards circled overhead. It is the peculiarity of these birds, as before remarked, that they find their prey with wonderful quickness and precision. Life is no sooner extinct in a body, than the buzzard appears, coming seemingly out of the depths of space, and circling round and round with never-wearying wing,-the Paul Pry of the skies,-a policeman and scavenger in one. 
               Several wolves prowled along the edge of the pond, snuffing the air, and gazing wistfully at the fallen, eager to approach, yet afraid of man, though prostrate and still. There is that in the human form which animals dread, even after death has stricken it. At last, one more daring than the rest, emboldened by the continued silence, ventured near a body, but suddenly bounded away, followed by the troop, into the hummock, where they all set up a dismal howling. What could have frightened them? They are cowardly creatures alone, but bold enough in a pack, particularly if they are very hungry. The truth is, animals have ways of acquiring information that escape our more obtuse senses. The buffalo will scent you a mile off, if the wind comes from your direction, hence the hunter always approaches him against the wind. For a like reason the buffalo, when frightened, runs with the wind; that is, from or into danger, as the case may be. We have known a whole herd to dash into a line of troops, rather than violate this law of their senses. 
               But to return to the wolves. Their actions appeared strange in the absence of any visible cause; but now the tall grass near a soldier's corse seemed to be agitated as if something heavy was moving through it. A head was raised slowly up, and then quickly disappeared. It did not look like the head of a soldier, for it was black, and resembled more the snout of an animal. A hand was lifted,-or was it a paw? The head again appeared. It was this time unmistakably the head of an Indian, whose luminous eyes were glancing warily around. Satisfied, however, that the field was deserted, Bluesnake-for it was he-rose from the grass and walked briskly over the battle-ground to see if any of the command were still alive. He had promised Sergeant Atkins to do this if the latter would not attempt to follow him. But the savages had effectually done their work,-all lay stark and cold, those who had escaped the rifles of the Indians having fallen beneath the merciless knives of the negro warriors. 
               Bluesnake thoroughly reconnoitered the ground, beginning at the point in the road where the advanced guard had been shot, and working his way around and toward the breastwork. Evidences of the fight were everywhere visible,-ghastly, mutilated dead, and, scattered here and there, cartridge-boxes, bayonet-scabbards, fragments of bloody clothing, and, alas! soiled letters,-those touching mementos of home and friends. The guide was struck with the sagacity which had been displayed,-the consummate cunning with which the ground had been selected on which to assail the command. As before stated, it was in the open pine-barren, a pond on one side, and high grass, through which a road ran skirting the pond, on the other,-the very place where soldiers, fatigued by a weary tramp through the woods, would naturally halt and relax their vigilance. But, independently of this, the detachment was at the mercy of the savages almost from the moment it started on its unfortunate march from Tampa. They knew when it left, what its organization was, whither it was going, and where probably it would nightly encamp. They knew the number of rounds each man had in his cartridge-box, the number of shot in the caisson with the gun, the change of commanders,-even how many days' rations were along,-for the negroes had kept them advised of the minutest details, no one dreaming of making a secret of such things, and Sergeant Atkins not being alone in his contemptuous opinion of the fighting qualities of the savages. 
               Having reconnoitered the field, Bluesnake turned his steps toward the breastwork. He had left it the last thing to be examined, and he now approached it with hesitation. Being superstitious, having this common trait of his people in the highest degree, it is no exaggeration to say that he feared the dead soldiers would arise from their bloody beds and accuse him of their murder. Arrived at the "pen," he gazed long and sadly at its mute occupants. The sight was startling; he heaved a great sigh and muttered to himself. The bodies lay around, inside the logs, strikingly parallel with each other,
                     Captain Hitchcock's report.
                   the Indians not having disturbed them except to scalp. 
               Bluesnake noticed, with that peculiarity of the mind which prompts us, in the presence of disaster, to dwell upon the minutest details, that one of the dead officers had on a private's uniform. He saw that another had been killed whilst resting against the logs,-the body erect, the head slightly bent forward, the eyes open, as if in the act of watching the savage foe. He observed a line of ants busily at work repairing their nest, which some one had stepped upon and crushed. He noticed where a rifle-ball had gone through a drum and killed the drummer-boy, who lay, pale and bloody, beside it. He counted the number of dead, perceived that they were artillerymen, and, whilst wondering at their sad lack of vigilance, the thought occurred to him, what will the white man do, when he learns that so many of his warriors have been cruelly slain? Will he shut his eyes and say, "It is right and just; they had no business to be there; or, being there, should have been prepared for surprise;" or will he come in numbers like the leaves, and execute a terrible revenge? The Great Father had said that the nation must go West,-must give up homes, graves, hunting-grounds, everything. He had treated its appeals for mercy with contemptuous silence,-now he would come with his "big guns," and destroy it. And he himself,-what would become come of him? What could he do? Should he cling to the pale-face, or return to his people, signalizing his fidelity by delivering up his friend? He might thus become a chief and "Go-Before,"-his name would be handed down by the rising generation as a benefactor of the nation! A hideous smile distorted Bluesnake's usually placid face as this idea occurred to him. All the animal of his nature came to the surface, and he snuffed the blood-tainted air as a tame tiger that for a moment forgets its training; but the dark cloud passed quickly away, and a light stole into his heart,-memories of his friend's kindness and sterling worth, of eating, smoking, and sleeping together, of weary tramps and dangers shared, of pleasant "talks," of future plans, and, finally, of a mutual pledge; and as these thoughts thronged to his mind, his features softened, his muscles relaxed, the battle-field vanished, and a vision rose before his abstracted gaze. He was at his old home on the Oclawaha. His mother and his brother Wea were with him; both were dead, but he did not wonder at that. They were walking in the woods together, as had been his childhood's custom, and whilst thus engaged holding each other's hand, they saw a long line of men, women, and children issuing from the hummocks and swamps. The women carried packs, and the men were unarmed, and had neither scalp-lock nor war-paint. They wore the peace-dress of the Seminoles, and had an inexpressibly mournful look, as they wended their way toward the setting sun. Some wept, some lingered by the roadside, and some turned back; but most went forward with stolid countenances,-forward,-forward to the "Oahatka, or White-water,"
                     Literally, the sea.
                   where "big canoes," with "great wings spread," lay ready to bear them to the Unknown. Then Bluesnake saw, as in a mirror, that where lately was a field wet with the white man's blood, a thriving town had sprung up,-houses, streets, people. He heard the throbbing pulse of trade,-of commerce. He beheld fields, stretching away in the distance, undulating and green with the succulent sugar-cane, the stately corn, and precious tobacco; and, wandering dimly through the streets of the town, like shadows fading away, were a few forlorn-looking Indians, gazing vacantly about them. The scene then vanished, and the guide saw the battle-field again. The sun had gone down, shadows and gloom were gathering thick in the woods, misty shapes outlined themselves among the trees, and hovered over the scene. To Bluesnake they seemed to be the spirits of the dead soldiers who lay grim and white beneath, for one, a captain, cried, with a threatening gesture, "This is your work!" And the rest echoed, "Your work! your work!" And then from the weird darkness sprang countless other shapes, in scalp-lock and war-paint, that thronged about the guide, whooping and crying, "Momus-cha! it is good!" And instantly he was in the thicket again. Sergeant Atkins and Bolls were beside him. He experienced the old sensations,-a shuddering and foreboding. He observed the command approach the pond, halt and scatter, withered by the fatal volley. He heard the dull sound of musketry, the sharp crack of rifles, the occasional booming of the cannon, and, blended with all, the feeble cheering of soldiers, and the shrill whoops of their savage foe. Then there was a lull in the firing, and the guide heard the sound of axes at work, and beheld spectral soldiers building a spectral breastwork, each log of which had a counterpart on the earth beneath it. Then rifle-shots again rang out, the fight was renewed with redoubled fury, and he saw the gradual closing in of phantom Indians on the doomed phantom band,-in a word, he beheld re-enacted what he had so lately witnessed, only the vision was more vivid, more startling than the reality. Horrified by the ghostly sight, Bluesnake abruptly turned, and fled with the speed of fear around the pond, the yells of the victors the while seeming to ring in his ears. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               FORT KING. 
               FORT KING, at the date of our story, was a stockade, garrisoned by a single company of artillery, fifty-five strong. A stockade or picket-work is a simple row of posts, planted close together in the ground, inclosing a space either square or irregular. The posts are generally from eighteen to twenty feet high, and pointed at the top to make them the more difficult to be scaled. Such works in the early times dotted our country from the Lakes to the Gulf, and were the scenes of many romantic and thrilling incidents of savage warfare,-incidents which have lived in the memory of the settlers and their descendants, whilst the works themselves have disappeared. 
               The square is the simplest and therefore the most common form of stockade, requiring few tools to construct it and but little engineering skill to lay it out. A correct eye and some axes and spades are alone essential; and if, in addition, you have a tape-line and pocket-compass, the outfit is complete. There is this objection, however, to the square: it has no flanking arrangements-that is, arrangements by which you can look to the right and to the left of each face of the work; and, to obtain these, block-houses, projecting partly within and partly without the line, must be constructed in the angles or sides. These structures are usually two stories high, the second story being diagonal to the first, with embrasures in the faces through which artillery can be fired. This adds greatly to the defensive as well as to the offensive strength of a stockade, for, whilst it can stand any amount of peppering from rifles and arrows (the only aggressive weapons Indians employ) it can return the fire with interest. 
               Such was the character of the defenses of Fort King, a parallelogram, situated on the highest ground in the midst of an extensive clearing. The short sides of the work looked toward the north and south respectively, an angular projection of the pickets, called an arrow-head, flanking the north side, and a block-house at the southwest angle flanking the two sides there. Another projection, of the nature of a bastion, flanked the east side, in which was the main gate, always a weak point in a stockade. The forest extended beyond the clearing in which Fort King was situated for many weary miles in one unbroken wilderness of pine-barren, hummock, and swamp, save where a daring settler had squatted or wealthy planter established himself in defiance of the Indians, always jealous of encroachments on their hunting-grounds. The fort was in the very heart of the Indian country, as it then existed, being several days' journey from the settlements as the bird flies. Few cared to undertake the journey alone. It was dangerous even in times of peace. The traveler needed to have all his wits about him, a firm hand, steady nerves, and some knowledge at least of woodcraft. But when the war broke out no one dreamed of venturing along that solitary road without heavy escort. The troops themselves were frequently beset and forced to throw up breastworks, traces of which were visible in the woods as late as 1845. It was not a pleasant thing to encounter the Indians in those dark and gloomy hummocks, more than one detachment having been worsted and forced to cry quits with their ferocious occupants. General Gaines, with several hundred men, was "penned" on the Withlacoochee River for weeks, waiting for reinforcements, and daily catechised by the enemy, who demanded to know what he had to eat,-a particularly provoking question just then, as he was living on his mules Other commands, from time to time, were placed in equally unpleasant predicaments. 
               The space within Fort King was devoted to the usual purposes of a military post, where everything is subordinated to the one idea of defense. The quarters of the men were near the center of the inclosure, those of the officers toward the west, the flag-staff in the northwest angle, and the guard-house to the south. All the buildings, as well as the pickets themselves, had loop-holes, so that any one standing on the inside banquette or platform could easily sight a gun through them; but not from without, as the loop-holes narrowed there, and could not be so easily reached. Our story, however, concerns the outside more than the inside of the fort, and it is not necessary to describe it further than to say that, with the exception of the block-house which formed a part of the defenses in the southwest angle, the rest of the buildings were detached from the pickets so as as to leave an open space for the use of the garrison in case of assault. All the buildings were constructed of hewn logs, elevated above the ground, and put together in the rough style suitable for such a climate as Florida, where it is no great hardship to live out of doors the year round, if you can only protect yourself against the mosquitoes, fleas, and other pestiferous insects. 
                
               A hummock, some four hundred yards distant, in a southeasterly direction, was the nearest point of woods to the fort. A spring, on the edge of this hummock, supplied the garrison with water. When hostilities broke out, it became dangerous to approach the spring, on account of the cover which the hummock afforded to lurking foes. To obviate this danger, whenever a party was sent for water, a six-pounder gun was run out of the main gate, and brought to bear on the spring, the gunner standing by with lighted linstock. 
               The road from Tampa Bay entered the clearing in which Fort King was situated from the south and west, and, after skirting the woods to the left for a short distance, branched off into two roads, one of which went up rising ground to the stockade, the other continued on, and led to the Indian trading-house. This establishment was half a mile, in a northwesterly direction, from the fort, a hummock intervening, and screening it from view. It was a favorite resort of the natives, who went there to trade, to beg, and, quite frequently, to steal, in all of which vocations-especially the latter-they particularly excelled. Whisky was a forbidden article of traffic; but who can prevent Indians from getting possession of whisky, when it is to be had by hook or by crook? It found its way to them through all avenues, and in all forms,-good, bad, and indifferent, the bad, however, predominating,-and, giving up their arms to the squaws, with orders to secrete them, lest they should be tempted to do each other an injury in their cups, they would retire to the woods, and have their drunken frolics. For this reason, and because Indians are a great nuisance about a garrison,-intruding everywhere, and prying into everything,-the trading-house, as we have intimated, had been placed at some distance from the fort. It was approached, by a road which crossed the clearing, from a small gate in the north side of the stockade, the intermediate space being built upon at several points, but chiefly near the gate, where had been erected officers' quarters, a bakehouse, a hospital, etc.; and it is to the piazza of one of these buildings-a log-house, with the usual hall running through the center-that we would now invite the reader's attention. Three persons occupied the piazza, two of whom were seated on camp-stools, enjoying cigars. The third, a gentleman of medium size, clad in the uniform of an officer of the United States artillery, with light hair, and erect, soldierly bearing, stood before the open window of a room in which the remains of a breakfast were visible, and proceeded to undo from its manifold wrappings a yellow-covered package which a soldier in sidearms had just delivered. 
               "Who rode express?" he asked, tearing off the last cover. 
               "An Indian, sir," replied the orderly, touching his cap. 
               "Billy?" 
               "No, sir; I don't know who he was." 
               "Where's Billy?" 
               "Gone, sir; he went away with the rest." 
               "Strange!" mused the officer. "Did you see the one who brought this dispatch?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "What was he like?" 
               "A big, surly-looking fellow,-he didn't seem inclined to talk." 
               "Go and bid him come here. But, stop,-tell Sergeant Lewis that I would like to see him." 
               "Does the captain wish to see him here, or in the adjutant's office?" asked the orderly, with his hand to his cap. 
               "Here,-immediately." 
                
               The soldier turned away, and the officer continued his examination of the express matter, which proved to be that most acceptable of all things at a frontier-post,-a package of letters. He read aloud the superscription on each: "'Commanding Officer, Fort King,'-'Colonel T--, Seminole Agency.' Here, colonel,-a letter for you." 
               The party thus designated-a dignified-looking individual of middle age and very imposing manner-rose from the camp-stool upon which he was seated, and, throwing away the stump of his cigar, received, opened, and eagerly perused his letter. 
               "I wish somebody would write to me," said the third of the three gentlemen, with affected discontent, contradicted, however, by a merry twinkle in his eye. 
               "You, Uncle Jerry!" returned the officer, looking smilingly up from a document he was reading, "who would think of writing to you?" 
               "No one," pathetically answered the old gentleman, for he was old, notwithstanding an effort on his part to appear young. This is by no means an uncommon trait with us all, particularly if we have been handsome in our youth. But Uncle Jerry never had been handsome, or good-looking even, if you come to that; still, he seemed to think that if he wore his hat over his eyes to conceal his gray hair, and huge cowskin boots on his feet to favor his corns, he might pass muster as one not yet totally unacceptable to the fair sex-those exquisite judges, to whom we have reference in all matters of this nature-notwithstanding a cracked voice and tottering gait. 
               Uncle Jerry is not a necessary character in these pages, which are now fast drawing to a close,-all allusion to him can be omitted without marring a single incident of the narrative,-but we choose to notice him here as the representative of a half-civil and half-military class of persons sons, specimens of whom are always to be found at a frontier-post. Proud of his meerschaum, which he was always polishing with the cuff of his sleeve, Uncle Jerry was a good-natured old soul, who in variably smiled when he was spoken to, and did whatever he was asked to do, however unreasonable it might be; a personage, in fact, who never said "No" in his life, except to an Indian. He was not much of a talker, but a splendid listener, and could sympathize with all your little troubles of mind or body; and, what was of great importance to a small and solitary garrison in the wilderness, he was a no mean performer on the fiddle, improvising by the hour variations of such exhilarating tunes as "Speed the Plough," "Money Musk," and the "Devil's Dream." 
               Among other manifold occupations, such as postmaster, sutler's assistant, and standing orderly to the commanding officer, Uncle Jerry was caterer of the officers' mess at Fort King, his dealings with the Indians in that capacity being something marvelous to behold. No statesman or lawyer ever went more shrewdly to work to outwit an antagonist. For example. Scene,-Uncle Jerry's room; the old gentleman reclining in an easy-chair of his own designing and construction,-a cross between a camp-stool, settee, and barrel. He is arrayed in his official robe,-a dressing-gown once crimson, now a muddy red. 
               Enter Indian, with magnificent gobbler of at least sixteen pounds avoirdupois, feathers sleek and lustrous, beard long and venerable,-the monarch of the flock! 
               Enter Cudjo, our diplomat's factotum and secretary of the interior, a darkey with a conically-shaped head, a pair-of-saddle-bags-like nose, huge, faded lips, and complexion very much the shade of soot. Indian holds up turkey for inspection, uttering the cabalistic word, "Aheapfat." 
                
               "How much?" demands Uncle Jerry, with closed eyes, and in a feeble voice, as if it were an effort to speak. 
               "Dollar humke," replies redskin, meaning one dollar. 
               The old gentleman looks up at the ceiling and seems to be watching the circling flies. 
               "Two dollars," continues the Indian, turning the turkey round and round to exhibit its finest points. 
               Our diplomatist looks down and throws this interjection full at the turkey,-"Bosh!" 
               Redskin don't understand him, naturally enough, and adds, "Three dollars-five dollars." 
               Uncle Jerry becomes deaf, and, in addition, blind. 
               "Ten dollars-twenty dollars!" triumphantly continues the seller, throwing turkey over his shoulder and starting as if to go, no doubt thinking he has the enemy confounded; but the latter is accustomed to such tactics, and, majesterially waving his hand, utters this remarkable sentence: 
               "Don't want him,"-an assertion far from the truth, as there is not a particle of fresh meat in the fort, and the commissary pork is in a suspicious state, to say the least. 
               "How much?" angrily demands Indian, seeing that his manuvre has failed. 
               Our tactician, now bringing up his reserves, puckers up his mouth as if he scented something disagreeable. 
               "Fresh," protests the owner; "shot him to-day-yesterday." 
               Uncle Jerry incredulously shuts one eye. Redskin thrusts the turkey under his antagonist's nose. The latter takes a sniff, draws back, and seems to reflect, shutting the other eye, the better to meditate. He then murmurs, in a low voice, as if debating the question with himself, "A plug of tobacco." 
               "Take him," says the baffled Indian, flinging down the gobbler. 
                
               The victor contemplates his prize, and emphatically adds, "Pig-tail." 
               "Where is he?" demands the defeated, with an angry scowl. 
               Uncle Jerry cackles like a hen that has just laid an egg, and, with the air of a major-general disposing his forces for battle, orders Cudjo to "carry that bird to the cook, and tell him to mind and not burn it as he did the last gobbler, and be sure to put sage in the stuffing." Then, taking out of his pocket a twist of tobacco,-of that peculiar make which is usually denominated pig-tail, and which might possibly have cost half a dime in the settlements,-he hands it to his crest-fallen antagonist, conjuring him at the same time "not to bring any more turkeys to him at that rate, or it would ruin the mess." So much for Uncle Jerry, the best caterer we ever knew. 
               "Bad news!" exclaimed the individual whom we have before alluded to as receiving a letter, and who was no less a person than the agent appointed by the government of the United States to superintend Indian affairs in Florida. 
               "What is it?" asked Captain L--, the commanding officer of the fort. 
               "The Indians have attacked the troops on their way here." 
               "The deuce! Where?" 
               "Near the Wahoo Swamp." 
               "How do you get the news?" 
               "From Clinch's plantation; a native brought it there, having witnessed the fight." 
               "What are the particulars?" asked the officer, after a painful pause. 
               "Terrible!" replied the agent, rising and handing the letter to his interrogator. "You can read for yourself." 
               "The troops have been cut to pieces! not a soul escaped!" 
                
               "Good God!" ejaculated the dismayed officer. 
               The agent resumed: "How D--, who, it seems, commanded, could have allowed himself to be drawn into such a snare, is beyond my comprehension. He should have had some friendly Indians along." 
               "Ah, now you talk like a sensible man, Colonel T--; I thought you would change your mind about these savages, one of these days, and come to know them, as I do, for a treacherous and faithless race. Flattering them at one time and punishing them at another is a poor way to manage them. I always thought your treatment of Oseola would lead to some disastrous results." 
               "He was a mutinous scoundrel, and deserved all he got," angrily returned the agent. "I've had more trouble with that Indian than with all the rest of the nation put together,-a surly, petulant, overbearing beggar!" 
               "Well, well, I have nothing more to say," returned the officer, with a deprecating gesture; "you best know your own business, and can manage it to your liking. My duty is to hold this fort, and hold it I will, though all the Indians in Florida were howling around it. But about D--, do you think the report of his being worsted can be true?" 
               "There must be some foundation for it." 
               "The Indians have been shy of late. I have apprehended mischief ever since Oseola's confinement." 
               "Oseola again. Hang Oseola!" 
               "I don't say that," mildly returned the officer; "but I didn't mean to renew the subject. Uncle Jerry, run over to the company quarters and look up the native who brought this intelligence. But, never mind, here comes the orderly. Where's the sergeant?" continued the captain, as the soldier approached. 
               "Coming, sir." 
                
               "Go, tell him to hurry,-not to lose a moment. Did you see the express rider?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Where is he?" 
               He went away as soon as he delivered the dispatches." 
               "So! that's significant," said the officer. "Tell the sergeant that I wish to see him without further loss of time,-leave word with the corporal of the guard to shut both gates and to be on the alert. Uncle Jerry, run over to the trading-house, and see if the individual who brought this letter is there,-I must see him." 
               "You can warn R-- at the same time," added the agent. 
               The old gentleman departed, and Captain L-- seated himself on the vacant camp-stool, and carefully read the letter through. It gave no particulars, being the simple report of an Indian who had passed the field, and more than probably had participated in the fight. It had been written by a planter who resided near the ground, and who had heard the firing all day. 
               "There certainly has been an action," said the officer, returning the letter to the agent, who assented, adding,- 
               "Have you any idea of the strength of the troops?" 
               "Yes, a dispatch here from the post-adjutant at Tampa informs me that Captain G--'s company, Second Artillery, and Captain F--'s company, Third Artillery, amounting to a hundred and ten, officers and men, with a six-pounder, would leave there, on the morning of the 23d instant, to reinforce this post." 
               "Did he say who would command the detachment?" 
               "G--, the senior officer, of course." 
               "My letter says that Major D-- was in charge. He belongs to the infantry, does he not?" 
               "That explains it!" eagerly said the officer; "the report bears contradiction on its face,-an infantryman is never put to command artillery, unless both arms are along. I now doubt the whole story." 
               "There's some foundation for it, you may depend," said the agent,-"it comes pretty straight; there has been a fight of some kind, or I'm mistaken." 
               "A skirmish, perhaps; but to talk of a massacre is all nonsense. A hundred and ten men, with a piece of artillery, would hold all the warriors in the nation at bay for a week. I wish Indian Billy was here. We could send him out, and learn the truth of the matter at once." 
               "Suppose you send over to the sutler's store, and look up one of Charley-Emathla's warriors; there's always a lot of' em hanging about, ready to do anything but work." 
               "Uncle Jerry has gone there to see." 
               "What can have become of Bluesnake?" continued Colonel T--. "He's like the rest,-on hand when not wanted, away when he is." 
               "He is detained for good cause. I would stake a great deal on his fidelity." 
               "Oh, he's one of your pets!" 
               "No, he's not; but I think him a noble specimen of his people." 
               "I have never seen the Indian I could rely on yet," said the agent, with a curl of his lip. 
               "In any event," added the officer, "I shall order all inside the stockade, R-- included. He has a notion the savages will not trouble him, because he has favored them in trade. I was talking with him on the subject only a few days ago." 
               "The sooner he gets over that idea the better. Indians don't appreciate kindness of that kind." 
               "Suppose you warn him, colonel. Let him bring his things inside the pickets, and we'll make room for them." 
                
               "I'll attend to it; but who's that coming up the Tampa road?" added the agent, shading his eyes from the morning's sun, which shone full in his face. 
               "A native, by Jupiter! Now we shall know the facts of the matter." 
               Captain L-- rose from his seat as he spoke, and eagerly scanned the approaching stranger, who, perceiving that he was observed, turned and bent his steps toward the piazza. The two gentlemen recognized the guide before he had reached them, but how different did he appear from his former self! He had always been remarkable for the loftiness of his bearing, the neatness of his dress, and the brilliancy of his arms and accoutrements; but now all was changed. The poor fellow had evidently gone through some hard service since last we introduced him to the reader,-a service which had left its marks on both mind and body; for, though he bore himself crect, and his scalp-lock still flaunted itself like a flag nailed to the mast of a battered ship, he had no turban on his head nor moccasins on his feet; he walked with a weary limp and a still more wearied air, and, as he came closer, the commanding officer of Fort King could see that the Indian's hands were bloody, and that his face, notwithstanding the hideous mask of black paint which covered it, was haggard and inexpressibly sad. Gaining the piazza, Bluesnake seated himself at some distance from its occupants, and bowed his head upon his breast, without uttering a word. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               BLUESNAKE'S STORY. 
               "WHAT is it, my friend?" asked the captain, going gently up to him, and laying his hand softly on his shoulder, after waiting in vain for him to speak. "What is the matter? Have you, too, been worsted in a fight?" 
               "Bluesnake is tired," replied the guide, looking wearily up. "Ay! yi! the wolves smelt of his blood all last night." 
               "Poor fellow, we must give you something to drink; but who did that?" added the officer, pointing to a great gash in the guide's arm. 
               "Itunwah," returned the latter, with flashing eyes. "Itunwah's knife." 
               "Tell us all about it; where did it happen?" 
               Bluesnake pressed his lips together, looked down, stirred the sand with his foot, but said nothing. 
               "You must speak, my lad, if you want me to help you." 
               "Itunwah did it." 
               "But how,-in what manner?" 
               "Down there," pointing to the woods. 
               "In D--'s fight?" 
               The guide shook his head, and breathed heavily. "I saw D--'s fight,-me, my father, and Bolls." 
               "Who do you mean by 'my father?'" 
               "Sergeant Atkins, your orderly sergeant." 
               "My orderly sergeant?" repeated the dismayed officer. 
               "Him." 
               "Well, what of him? Where is he?" 
                
               The guide raised his squirrel-skin pouch, and said, in a fierce whisper,"Itunwah didn't get it,-see!" 
               "Merciful Father! What have you there?" exclaimed the horrified captain. 
               "My father's scalp," returned Bluesnake, starting up and facing his interrogator with a lofty smile. "We fought for it,-me and Itunwah. My father told me not to let an Indian have it,-he would not sleep quiet with his hair hanging up; so I took it, and left the rest to Itunwah and the wolves." And here, notwithstanding his exultation, great tears gathered in the speaker's eyes and rolled down his cheeks. 
               Captain L-- was deeply affected. Painful emotions stirred in his breast, as he heard the dreadful words and saw the touching grief of the faithful savage. After a minute's silence he at length spoke,- 
               "Pray, don't keep me longer in suspense; you know how anxious I am to learn all." 
               With considerable hesitation the guide answered, "We left Wea-Luste. I had gone there to meet my father, as I had promised." 
               "Yes, I know. Black Creek." 
               "We had been four suns on the road when we came across a white man dead in the woods." 
               "Killed by Indians?" 
               Bluesnake nodded. 
               "How do you know?" 
               He made a circular movement with his right forefinger, and then touched his scalp-lock. 
               "The best evidence in the world," shudderingly said the officer. 
               "I shall want stronger proof than that," interrupted the agent; "it does not follow because the scalp was gone that an Indian did the deed. I have known a white man do the like, and lay it to the natives." 
                
               
                   
                     "Itunwah didn't get it,-see!" Page 308. 
                  
                
                
                
               It is at least presumptive, if not positive proof," said the officer, with a shrug. "Where did you find the body, Bluesnake?" 
               "In the hummock, near Micco-nope." 
               "Whose was it?" 
               "A trader named Hill." 
               "Where was he from?" 
               "St. Augustine." 
               "What sort of a man was he?" 
               "A bad man," eagerly replied the guide. 
               "Well, my friend, go on with your story." 
               "My father said that he would follow the murderer." 
               "That was imprudent." 
               "It was criminal!" again interrupted the agent. "A pretty state of things when a non-commissioned officer undertakes to regulate matters. We shall be having a private next negotiating a treaty. I shall have the sergeant's conduct investigated." 
               "You forget, Colonel T--, that he has already been summoned before the highest of tribunals," reverentially said the officer. "He was one of the best soldiers I ever knew." 
               "I wanted my father to come on, but he wouldn't," continued the Indian, who had listened sullenly to the agent's remark. 
               "Very like him,-rash, but determined in what he conceived to be his duty," was the officer's comment. 
               "He went to Suwanee-Old-Town," pursued the guide, nursing his wounded arm, "and was taken prisoner." 
               "And you?" 
               "I hid." 
               "You spoke of Bolls: was he taken at the same time?" 
               "Yes; together." 
               ''Well, Bluesnake, so far the matter is plain. You went to Suwanee-Old-Town, where the soldiers were taken prisoners. What then happened?" 
               "They escaped." 
               "How?" 
               "Me," returned the guide, with a smile, which, however, instantly vanished: "I pretended to be a medicine man, and deceived the squaws." 
               "Had you any one to assist you?" 
               "Charley-Emathla." 
               "Ah! now we shall have some light at last," said the agent, who had listened with ill-concealed impatience to the officer's questions and the answers thereto. "What had Charley-Emathla to do with it?" 
               Bluesnake looked his interrogator full in the face, but made no reply. Captain L-- knew the folly of attempting to force an Indian to speak when he was bent upon remaining silent. He fully comprehended the truth of the saying, "You may lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink." So he spoke softly, and in a kindly tone of voice, "Tell your story in your own way, my son." 
               A bright smile irradiated the Indian's face, the sullen look was gone. The speaker continued: "How did Charley-Emathla help you?" 
               "He took my father to the Okee-fi-nokee, where I joined him." 
               "How long ago was that?" 
               "Two moons; my father was shut up in the swamp, and had to come by Oclawaha, the straight path was dangerous." 
               "That is how you came to see D--'s fight?" 
               "I saw D--'s fight,-me, my father, and Bolls." 
               "Where were you at the time?" 
               "In the bushes near the Withlacoochee River." 
               "Now be particular, my friend, and tell us all about the affair. When did it commence?" 
                
               "When the white man eats," returned the guide, gazing wistfully at the remains of the breakfast; visible from where he stood. The poor fellow was almost starved, not having broken his fast for days. 
               "Presently," said the officer, rightly interpreting the other's looks. "You shall have all you can eat when you have told us of this horrible affair. Did it take place in a hummock?" 
               Bluesnake shook his head. 
               "In the open woods?" 
               He nodded. 
               "That's strange!" 
               "The negroes reported that soldiers were coming with a big gun from Tampa. The chiefs wished to attack them. Oseola said it was time to let the white man see that the nation was in earnest; he had been having his own way long enough. The Indians hid in the grass; the soldiers came along, laughing and talking." 
               "Laughing!" 
               "They were not thinking of danger. Half were killed at the first fire." 
               "Incredible!" exclaimed the agent. 
               "Oseola said that all must die," continued the guide, tearing off a strip of his hunting-shirt and bandaging his wounded arm. 
               "They surely made some resistance; they had able officers along," said the distressed officer. 
               "They did what they could, but--" Bluesnake finished the sentence with an ominous shake of his head. 
               "Who led the Indians?" 
               "Micco-nope, Alligator, and Jumper. Micco-nope fired the first gun. The chiefs made him do so."
                     A fact.
                  
                
                
               "Where was Oseola?" 
               "He said that he would 'look after Charley-Emathla.'"
                     Oseola's own words.
                  
                
               "How long did the fight last?" 
               "Till the sun got below the trees. There were two attacks, the soldiers built a breastwork." 
               "Couldn't you have warned them of their danger?" 
               "My father wanted to do so, but I wouldn't let him; I am sorry now," mournfully replied the guide. 
               "Why did you prevent him?" sternly asked the officer. 
               "He was dressed like an Indian, and they would not have known him." 
               "A strange affair!" mused the officer. 
               "A botched one!" exclaimed the agent; "a war on our hands through the folly of a soldier!" 
               "If there is a war, it will be from other causes," sternly retorted the officer. "But how was the sergeant killed?" 
               "The Indians saw us, and we took to trees; my father exposed himself and was shot; he didn't want to live," said the guide, his eyes again filling with tears. 
               "And Bolls,-what became of him?" 
               "He got lost in the swamp." 
               "You two kept together?" 
               "I stayed to defend him after he was down," was the eager reply. 
               "That accounts for your being hurt?" 
               Bluesnake contemplated his wounded arm, and then grimly replied, "Itunwah did it,-but I got the scalp!" And he caressed his hideous trophy. 
               "Put it up, sir!" exclaimed the indignant officer, turning away his face. "Put it up, or I shall be tempted to take it from you." 
               Bluesnake drew back, and said, with dogged determination tion, "My father gave it to me, and nobody shall have it!" 
               "Then don't let me see it again." 
               The guide adjusted the pouch, so as to conceal what to him was a treasure, and, throwing his rifle over his shoulder, turned to leave. 
               "Where are you going?" hastily inquired Captain L--. 
               "To cover up my father." 
               "Can't you do that some other time? Come in, and eat something, and let me have your wound dressed." 
               "He tells me he is cold,-I cannot stay," said Bluesnake, with a shiver. 
               "What a strange idea!" said the officer. "But that poor fellow Bolls?" 
               "I'll look for him." 
               "And then return and stay with us?" 
               Bluesnake slowly shook his head. 
               "Will you stay with us when you have done that which you go to do?" 
               "Yes," was the prompt answer. 
               "Go, my friend; I wish you success," said the officer, at the same time putting into the guide's hands the better half of a loaf of bread which, at a sign, a servant had brought him from the breakfast-table. 
               "The captain believes the poor Indian?" said Bluesnake, looking first at the bread and then at the donor, his features working with emotion. 
               The officer gravely bent his head in assent. 
               "He trusts him?" 
               "On my soul I do!" replied, also visibly affected. 
               "Then call in your soldiers, and make the big guns talk!" cried the guide, pointing earnestly to the woods. 
               "Now?" 
               "Now!" he repeated, still pointing to the woods. "In dians are there, setting a trap; they are all around you!" 
               The two gentlemen exchanged glances. 
               "I cannot credit it," said the agent, starting up,-"still it may be well to get ready; and, if you will give the necessary orders, captain, I will walk over to the store with S--, whom I see coming there, and hurry in R--."
                     It was whilst walking over to the sutlor's store with Lientenant S-- that Colonel T-- and his companion were shot by a party of Indians under Oseola,-their bodies being completely riddled with balls.
                  
                
               "Colonel T-- had better not go; evil eyes are watching for him," quickly spoke the Indian, addressing himself for the first time to the agent. 
               "Nonsense, my man! I don't believe I have an enemy in the nation, unless it is Oseola, and he professes to be a friend." 
               "Oseola is a wolf, and never forgets an injury." And Bluesnake turned coldly away. 
               "Remember your word," said the officer, holding out his hand to the departing native. 
               The latter grasped it, saying, "I will come back, if I live." 
               "But why go at all?" 
               He dropped his friend's hand, looked hastily around, and answered, "I promised my father." 
               "What did you promise?" 
               "To kill Itunwah!" he cried, with ferocious energy, his teeth set, a demon's expression in his face. 
               "Ah! now I understand you, and have nothing more to say; so, good-by, warrior." 
               "Good-by, captain. Stay in the fort, and it will be well; all Micco-nope's braves cannot take it. I will bring Bolls back." 
                
               "I count with certainty on your return." 
               The guide gravely bent his head in reply; then gazing abstractedly before him, and speaking, as it were, to some one in the distance, he added, "Be not impatient; I come, my father." 
               With these words, Bluesnake strode rapidly away, and the commanding officer of Fort King stood gazing sadly at him, until his swarthy form seemed to sink into the ground as it approached the woods. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               THE LAST OF BLUESNAKE. 
               IT may not be uninteresting to the reader to know that Bluesnake carried out his threat to kill Itunwah, dogging him with the pertinacity of a shadow till he effected his purpose. It is a strange story, and we may narrate it one of these days, as further illustrative of our subject. Suffice it now to say, that Itunwah suspected his enemy's design, and, with an Indian's cunning, avoided him. But Bluesnake was not to be balked of his settled purpose. He had promised the sergeant to avenge him, and all his time and energies were devoted to that single object. The opportunity came at last. Bluesnake found his enemy in a thicket in a dark and silent wood, far away from the trail, asleep, and never dreaming of danger, and, pouncing furiously upon him, whipped off his scalp before he knew what hurt him, hanging it disdainfully upon a bush for the birds to peck at. 
               But concerning the sergeant's scalp, thereby also "hangs a tale." Bluesnake said it was a great medicine, that it was only necessary for him to breathe upon it to summon the sergeant bodily before him. You may laugh, but it is a fact,-we mean the delusion, of course,-it made no difference where the sergeant was, whether in the air or in the uttermost parts of the earth, he would come at his friend's call and talk to him. The two, consequently, were inseparable,-so the guide asserted,-and often, by his solitary camp-fire in the woods, or in his little hut in one angle of the fort, he could be seen talking to his imaginary friend, and to Bill English, whom, it seems, the sergeant had hunted up when he got into the spirit-world, and brought and introduced to Bluesnake, who adopted him as his "spirit-brother." 
               Bolls was the only one of the garrison with whom the Indian would talk concerning these things. And this reminds us to say, that the latter kept the promise he made Captain L--, to find and bring Bolls into the fort, where his sterling qualities soon attracted the attention of his superiors, and he was rapidly promoted corporal, sergeant, and first sergeant of the company. He, however, did not forget the poor Indian in his prosperity, sharing his rations with him, defending him when abused, lenient to his faults, which, alas! were many, and humoring his notions about his "spirit-father," which, by the way, the recruit,-we beg his pardon and touch our cap,-the sergeant half believed in himself. 
               We have read somewhere of a dog that, having lost his master, was inconsolable, refusing to eat, lying down and dying of grief on his master's grave. Bluesnake did not die of grief,-such a thing seldom happens among mortals,-but he mourned his friend's loss with a touching constancy; was never seen to smile, held himself aloof from all, never spoke except in the briefest of monosyllables bles, always wore black paint in commemoration of the sergeant's death, and, as he could not return to his people after what had happened, he made his home at Fort King, attaching himself to the fort rather than to the garrison. 
               But he had lost all value as a guide. He was too much wrapped up in his intercourse with the spirits to be of any further practical use in that respect; had grown timid and circumspect, saw an obstacle in every trivial thing, claimed that he could not do this or that because his father forbade him, and, like most Indians who have become domesticated with the whites, he finally took to drink, and enlisting in Paddy Car's and Jim Boy's regiment of Creeks, fell gallantly fighting the insurgent Indians, in the battle of Wahoo Swamp. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
